=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Walter Rodney - Wikipedia]
In 1993, the Guyanese government posthumously awarded Walter Rodney Guyana's highest honour, the Order of Excellence of Guyana. The Guyanese government also established the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rodney

[Walter Rodney: The Afrikan-Caribbean Revolutionary Scholar and Activist]
Jun 13, 2020 · In 1993, the Guyanese government posthumously awarded Walter Rodney Guyana’s highest honour, the Order of Excellence of Guyana. The Guyanese government also established the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana.
URL: https://kentakepage.com/walter-rodney-the-afrikan-caribbean-revolutionary-scholar-and-activist/

[Recognitions and Memorials of Dr. Walter Rodney — The Walter ...]
In 1993, the Guyanese government posthumously awarded Walter Rodney Guyana's highest honour, the Order of Excellence of Guyana. The Guyanese government also established the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana.
URL: https://www.walterrodneyfoundation.org/recognition-and-memorials

[About Dr. Walter Rodney]
In 1983, the Association of Caribbean Historians also gave Rodney a posthumous award. Rodney's reputation as a historian of the Caribbean was duly recognized.
URL: https://www.walterrodneyfoundation.org/about-walter-rodney

[The death of Walter Rodney - Freepress.org]
Apr 24, 2014 · While in 1993 the Guyanese government joined other governments and institutions worldwide in honoring Rodney by posthumously awarded him Guyana's highest honor, the Order of Excellence of Guyana and establishing the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana, his family and friends worldwide have never stopped seeking the truth ...
URL: https://freepress.org/article/death-walter-rodney


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Walter Rodney - Wikipedia] ---
Walter Anthony Rodney (23 March 1942 – 13 June 1980) was a Guyanese historian, political activist and academic. His notable works include How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, first published in 1972. He was assassinated in Georgetown, Guyana, in 1980.


--- [Walter Rodney: The Afrikan-Caribbean Revolutionary Scholar and Activist] ---
“Walter Rodney was Most Rare. He is an exemplar. He belongs in that rare category of Marcus Garvey, CLR James, George Padmore and Frantz Fanon.” Walter Rodney was a Guyanese historian and activist who was assassinated in June 1980. Rodney, a prominent Pan-Africanist important in the Black Power movement in the Caribbean, Afrika, and America, was recognized as one of the Caribbean’s foremost revolutionary thinkers. His book, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa is regarded as the 20th century’s most important and influential book on African history. Walter Rodney was born in Georgetown, Guyana on 23 March 1942. His parents, Edward and Pauline Rodney were workers who struggled to get him through primary school, but Rodney attended the prestigious Queen’s College, the top male high school in Guyana, where he excelled in extra-curricular activities. He was in the student cadet corps, as well as being a high jumper and a debater. In 1960, he graduated first in his class, winning an open scholarship to the University of the West Indies (UWI). As a champion debater at the UWI, he represented the university at the Pittsburgh Debating Championships in the USA. While at UWI he was active in student politics and campaigned extensively in 1961 in the Jamaica Referendum on the West Indian Federation. Rodney got a First Class Honours Degree from UWI in history in 1963, thereby winning the Faculty of Arts prize. He then attended the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London, earning a PhD in African History at the age of 24. Rodney learned Portuguese and Spanish during this period to add to his knowledge of French which he had learned at Queens College. His dissertation painstakingy researched in the archieves of England, Portugal and West Africa was revised and published in 1970 as A History of the Upper Guinea Coast, by Oxford University Press. “His doctoral degree from one of England’s prestigious institutions could have gained Rodney entrance to the “elitist circles of western academia.” However, Rodney was one of the rare intellectuals who combined his scholarship with activism. He chose to commit himself to the cause of people of his race, and became a voice for the under-represented and disenfranchised. He worked tirelessly to help the Black working class (‘all oppressed peoples whose homelands are in Asia, Africa and the Americas’). In 1968, while a UWI professor in Jamaica, he joined others to object to the socio-economic and political direction of the government. He often lectured to militant student organizations. The Jamaican government labeled him a “radical” and an “undesirable alien” and after he attended the 1968 Black Writers’ Conference in Montreal, Canada he was banned from re-entering the country. However, his speeches and lectures in Jamaica would result in his first book, Grounding with My Brothers, which became central to the Caribbean Black Power Movement. In 1969, he went to Tanzania, and spent five productive years there. He taught at the University College of Dar-es-Salaam, where he introduced the course, The History of Blacks in America. It enabled the Afrikan students to connect their struggle against colonialism and neocolonialism with the Black struggle against racism in America. It was during his time in Tanzania that he wrote his major work, How Europe Under-Developed Africa (1972). The book is recognized as “the 20th century’s most important and influential book on African history.” The book, a systematic analysis of the Afrikan problem projects the theory that European capitalism was the primary agent in Afrika’s underdevelopement. In 1974, Rodney returned to Guyana from Tanzania. He was due to take up a position as a professor at the University of Guyana but the Guyanese government prevented his appointment. Increasingly active in politics, he founded the Working People’s Alliance, a party that provided the most effective and credible opposition to the People National Congress (PNC) government. He gave public and private talks all over the country that brought about a new political consciousness in the country. During this period he developed his ideas on the self-emancipation of the working people, People’s Power, and multiracial democracy. As the WPA gained popularity and momentum, the PNC began a campaign of harassment including police raids, house searches, and beatings. On July 11, 1979, Walter, together with seven others, was arrested following the burning down of two government offices. Rodney and four others (known as the “Referendum Five”) faced trumped-up charges of arson, but without proof and scrutiny from international supporters, the government was forced to drop these charges. Rodney’s voice was not confined to Africa and the Caribbean but was also heard in the U.S. and Europe. In the early-mid 1970s, he participated in discussions and lectures with the African Heritage Studies Association at Howard University; the Institute of the Black World in Atlanta, GA; the African Studies and Research Center at Cornell University; and the State University of New York at Binghamton. The persecution, however, continued: two party members were killed, and the government denied Rodney and others permission to travel. Despite this, Rodney continued his political work and attended Zimbabwe’s independence celebrations in May 1980. On Friday, 13 June 1980, Rodney was killed in Georgetown, at the age of thirty-eight, by a bomb in his car, a month after returning from celebrations during the independence in Zimbabwe. Walter Anthony Rodney was survived by his wife, Patricia, and three children, Shaka, Kanini and Asha. His brother, Donald Rodney, who was injured in the explosion, said that a sergeant in the Guyana Defence Force, named Gregory Smith, had given Walter the bomb that killed him. After the killing, Smith fled to French Guiana, where he died in 2002. It is widely believed, but not proven, that the assassination was set up by Guyana’s president Linden Forbes Burnham. Legacy: Rodney’s death was commemorated in a poem by Martin Carter entitled “For Walter Rodney,” by the dub poet Linton Kwesi Johnson in “Reggae fi Radni,” and by Kamau Brathwaite in his poem “Poem for Walter Rodney” (Elegguas, 2010). In 1977, the African Studies Centre, Boston University, inaugurated the Walter Rodney Lecture Series. In 1982, the American Historical Association posthumously awarded Walter Rodney the Albert J. Beveridge Award for A History of the Guyanese Working People, 1881-1905. In 1984, the Centre for Caribbean Studies of the University of Warwick established the Walter Rodney Memorial Lecture in recognition of the life and work of one of the most outstanding scholar-activists of the Black Diaspora in the post-World War II era. In 1993, the Guyanese government posthumously awarded Walter Rodney Guyana’s highest honour, the Order of Excellence of Guyana. The Guyanese government also established the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana. In 1998, the Institute of Caribbean Studies, University of the West Indies, inaugurated the Walter Rodney Lecture Series. In 2004, Rodney’s widow Patricia and his children donated his papers to the Robert L. Woodruff Library of the Atlanta University Center. Since 2004, an annual Walter Rodney Symposium has been held each 23 March (Rodney’s birthday) at the Center under the sponsorship of the Library and the Political Science Department of Clark Atlanta University, and under the patronage of the Rodney family. In 2005, the London Borough of Southwark erected a plaque in the Peckham Library Square in commemoration of Dr. Walter Rodney, the political activist, historian and global freedom fighter. In 2006, an International Conference on Walter Rodney was held at the Institute of Development Studies of the University of Dar es Salaam. In 2006, the Walter Rodney Essay Competition was established at the Department of Afroamerican and African Studies at the University of Michigan. In 2006, the Walter Rodney Foundation was formed by the Rodney family. It is headquartered in Atlanta and aims to share the works and legacy of Rodney with the world. In 2010, the Walter Rodney Commemorative Symposium was held at York College. The Department of African American Studies at Syracuse University established the Angela Davis/Walter Rodney Award of Academic Achievement. The Department of Afroamerican and African Studies (DAAS) at the University of Michigan established the DuBois-Mandela-Rodney Post-doctoral Fellowship Program. In 2012, the Walter Rodney Conference celebrating the 40th anniversary of the publication of How Europe Underdeveloped Africa was held at Binghamton University. Rodney is the subject of the 2010 documentary film by Clairmont Chung, W.A.R. Stories: Walter Anthony Rodney. The Walter Rodney Close in the London Borough of Newham has been named in honor of Rodney. Walter Rodney is listed on the Black Achievers Wall in the International Slavery Museum, Liverpool, UK. Source: Walter Rodney and Africa by Viola Mattavous Bly https://www.walterrodneyfoundation.org-biography/ https://www.voice-online.co.uk-opinion/2020/06/11/walter-rodney-a-luminous-beacon-for-racial-social-and-political-change/ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rodney


--- [Recognitions and Memorials of Dr. Walter Rodney — The Walter ...] ---
The Walter Rodney Foundation has developed a number of programs, which preserve, promote, and further the legacy of Walter Rodney. Recognition and Memorials - In Poems Rodney's death was commemorated in a poem by Martin Carter entitled "For Walter Rodney," by the dub poet Linton Kwesi Johnson in "Reggae fi Radni," and by Kamau Brathwaite in his poem "Poem for Walter Rodney" (in Elegguas 2010). - Boston University In 1977, the African Studies Centre, Boston University, inaugurated the Walter Rodney Seminar Series. - American Historical Association In 1982, the American Historical Association posthumously awarded Walter Rodney the Albert J. Beveridge Award for A History of the Guyanese Working People, 1881-1905. - University of Warwick In 1984, the Centre for Caribbean Studies of the University of Warwick established the Walter Rodney Memorial Lecture in recognition of the life and work of one of the most outstanding scholar-activists of the Black Diaspora in the post-World War II era. - The Order of Excellence of Guyana In 1993, the Guyanese government posthumously awarded Walter Rodney Guyana's highest honour, the Order of Excellence of Guyana. The Guyanese government also established the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana. - University of the West Indies In 1998, the Institute of Caribbean Studies, University of the West Indies, inaugurated the Walter Rodney Lecture Series. Also, The University of the West Indies (Mona) has held an annual event to explore Rodney’s ban from Jamaica in October 1968 and the ensuing student protests and local uprising, known as The Rodney Riots. - Robert W. Woodruff Library of the Atlanta University Center In 2004, Rodney's widow Patricia and his children donated his papers to the Robert W. Woodruff Library of the Atlanta University Center. Since 2004, an annual Walter Rodney Symposium has been held each 23 March (Rodney's birthday) at the Center under the sponsorship of the Library and the Political Science Department of Clark Atlanta University, and under the patronage of the Rodney family. - Packham Library Square In 2005, the London Borough of Southwark erected a plaque in the Peckham Library Square in commemoration of Dr. Walter Rodney, the political activist, historian, and global freedom fighter. - University of Dar es Salaam In 2006, an International Conference on Walter Rodney was held at the Institute of Development Studies of the University of Dar es Salaam. - University of Michigan In 2006, the Walter Rodney Essay Competition was established at the Afroamerican and African Studies Department at the University of Michigan. And for the 2022-2023 academic year, the Du Bois-Mandela-Rodney/NCID Postdoctoral Fellowship was established. - The Walter Rodney Foundation In 2006, the Walter Rodney Foundation was formed by the Rodney family. It is headquartered in Atlanta and aims to share the works and legacy of Rodney with the world. - York College In 2010, the Walter Rodney Commemorative Symposium was held at York College. - Syracuse University The Department of African American Studies at Syracuse University established the Angela Davis/Walter Rodney Award of Academic Achievement. - Binghamton University In 1998, Walter Rodney Conference was established; then again, in 2012, the Walter Rodney Conference celebrated the 40th anniversary of the publication of How Europe Underdeveloped Africa was held at Binghamton University. - SOAS, London In 2015, The School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), London, UK published its centenary timeline that included Walter Rodney - Newham Borough The Walter Rodney Close, in the London Borough of Newham, has been named in honor of Rodney. - International Slavery Museum Walter Rodney is listed on the Black Achievers Wall in the International Slavery Museum, Liverpool, UK. - Benin A Walter Rodney bust is located in Benin. The sculpture was created by Dr. Honaret Aguessy, the Director of the Research Center in Ouidah (alternately Whydah) in front of the Library. - George Washington University National Security Archive Documents chart U.S. Embassy’s effort to answer questions about the 1980 death of an acclaimed scholar and political activist. More Programs


--- [About Dr. Walter Rodney] ---
“The Black intellectual, the Black academic, must attach himself to the activity of the Black masses.” — Walter Rodney, The Groundings with My Brothers (1972) His Life Walter Anthony Rodney was born to Edward and Pauline Rodney in Georgetown, Guyana on March 23, 1942. He was the second child of five siblings, including four brothers, and one sister. Rodney grew up during the country’s anti-colonial movement; his father was a member of the Marxist-oriented People’s Progressive Party, which led the struggle for freedom from British rule. With this immersion into politics, Walter’s interest in the struggles of the working class began at a young age and continued with his involvement in debate and study groups throughout his student years. He developed into an intellectual and scholar and is recognized as one of the Caribbean’s most brilliant minds. Rodney’s academic record is filled with awards, open scholarships, and honors. He attended Queen’s College, the premiere boy’s high school in Guyana, and in 1960 graduated first in his class, winning an open scholarship to the University of the West Indies (UWI). He pursued his undergraduate studies at UWI Mona Campus in Jamaica, where he graduated with First Class honors BA in History in 1963. Rodney then attended the prestigious School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), London University. He graduated with his PhD with Honors in African History at 24 years old on the same day he welcomed his firstborn son, Shaka. Rodney’s thesis, A History of the Upper Guinea Coast, was published by Oxford University Press in 1970. In 1965, Walter married Patricia Henry, his “sweetheart”, who was also in London studying nursing. While at SOAS, Rodney spent his summers honing his debating and oratorical skills at Hyde Park. He sharpened and defined his personal understanding of Marxist thought and influence under the mentorship of CLR James (a Trinidadian scholar, and historian) and his wife Selma James (a Jewish-American writer, feminist and activist). Walter was an active member of the CLR James Study Group, a passionate and committed band of young persons from the Caribbean. It included: Selma James; Margaret Carter, a Barbadian writer, and journalist; the late Stanley French, a St. Lucian playwright and engineer; the late Norman Girvan, a Jamaican economist, who also graduated from the Mona Campus; Wally Look Lai, Trinidadian journalist, critic and history lecturer; and two Jamaican lawyers, Richard Small and Adolf Edwards. In July 1966, Rodney left London for his first teaching post at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, East Africa during the period of radical political and agrarian reform led by Julius Nyerere. Tanzania was the headquarters of the Organization of African Unity’s Liberation Committee (OUAC), and Dar es Salaam became the base for many exiled liberation movements of Southern Africa. Among these organizations were the African National Congress (ANC) of South Africa, Frente da Libertação de Moçambique (FRELIMO) of Mozambique, and Movimento Popular da Libertação de Angola (MPLA). In this atmosphere, Rodney developed his Pan-African perspectives along Marxist lines and sided with Southern Africa’s left-wing activists. Rodney combined his scholarship with activism and became a voice for the under-represented and disenfranchised – this distinguished him from his academic colleagues. Influenced by the Black Power Movement in the U.S., third world revolutionaries, and Marxist theory, Rodney began to actively challenge the status quo. In the nearly ten months in 1968, while a professor at UWI, Jamaica, Walter Rodney not only taught but also spoke to groups in the depressed areas of Kingston and rural areas. He had an extraordinary ability to speak with and listen to working class people and unemployed youth. He explained the significance of Africa to Caribbean history, and the importance of the struggles against the racial and social legacies of slavery and colonialism (1969). He joined others to object to the socio-economic and political direction of the government. Unlike his counterparts, however, Rodney involved the working class, including the Rastafarians (one of Jamaica’s most marginalized groups) in this dialogue. His articles, speeches, and lectures to these groups were published as Groundings with My Brothers and became central to the Caribbean Black Power Movement. Rodney’s activities garnered the Jamaican government’s ire and after attending the 1968 Black Writers’ Conference in Montreal, Canada he was banned from re-entering the country. This decision was to have profound repercussions, sparking widespread student and civil unrest on the University of the West Indies (UWI), Mona Campus, its surrounding communities, and in the capital, Kingston. The protests were referred to as the “Rodney Riots”. The ban marked a watershed in Jamaica’s political development; the scale of mass action in support of Rodney surprised the regime. There were protests throughout the Caribbean, Tanzania, Canada, and London. Rodney’s reputation as a scholar-activist, with a relevant critique of the Jamaican and Caribbean post-colonial elites, was firmly established. Upon being refused re-entry and being banned from Jamaica, Walter took a short sojourn in Cuba to reassess his role in the university. While there he penned a monograph entitled “Black Struggles” which was misplaced. From 1969-1974 he returned to lecture at the University of Dar es Salaam. In 1972, he published his best-known work How Europe Underdeveloped Africa. This work brings together historical scholarship and development theory to argue that the transatlantic slave trade and European and North American capitalist slavery did serious damage to Africa in depriving it of millions of its young people from the sixteenth to nineteenth centuries. Rodney was also critical of the impact of colonialism in retarding the development of the continent. The book advances a revolutionary humanist view of development and decolonization at a time when many countries on the continent were achieving political independence; a process that was also underway in the English-speaking Caribbean where territories were populated largely by descendants of enslaved people from Africa. In 1972, Oxford University published Rodney’s doctoral thesis A History of the Upper Guinea Coast, 1545–1800. In 1975, two chapters titled “The Guinea Coast” and “Africa in Europe and the Americas” were published in the Cambridge History of Africa. The latter essay was a pioneering study of the African Diaspora. In 1974, Walter returned to Guyana to take up an appointment as Professor of African History at the University of Guyana, but the Forbes Burnham government rescinded the appointment. Burnham saw the young scholar-activist as a potential threat and tried to keep him out of Guyana. Rodney remained in Guyana and joined the newly formed political group, the Working People’s Alliance (WPA), a political organization that offered a nonracial approach to Guyanese politics in a country where party politics had been divided between Cheddi Jagan’s East Indian–based People’s Progressive Party (PPP) and Forbes Burnham’s African-based People’s National Congress (PNC). Between 1974 -1979, Rodney emerged as the leading figure in the resistance movement against the increasingly authoritarian PNC government. He gave public and private talks all over the country that served to engender a new political consciousness in the country. He also continued his research and completed Volume 1: A History of the Guyanese Working People, 1881–1905, which was published posthumously in 1981. This work embodies his philosophy on the creative role of ordinary working class people in the making of history and introduces the contribution of enslaved Africans. It was the first book on the contributions of Guyanese working people written in the twentieth century. In 1982, the book won the American Historical Association’s Albert J. Beveridge Award, which is given annually for the best book in English on the history of the United States, Latin America, or Canada from 1492 to the present. In 1983, the Association of Caribbean Historians also gave Rodney a posthumous award. Rodney’s reputation as a historian of the Caribbean was duly recognized. He harnessed history in the service of African and Caribbean decolonization with a view to giving his readers a sense of their creative capacity to build postcolonial societies. During this period, he developed his ideas on the self-emancipation of the working people, People’s Power, and multiracial democracy. The Barbadian novelist George Lamming, in his foreword to A History of the Guyanese Working People, 1881–1905, described Rodney’s approach to history as “a way of ordering knowledge which could become an active part of the consciousness of an uncertified mass of ordinary people and which could be used by all as an instrument of social change. He taught from that assumption. He wrote out of that conviction.” Rodney was also a gifted and compelling speaker whose arguments were backed up by a mastery of contemporary data. He possessed a capacity to communicate complex ideas to small study groups and large audiences with great clarity drawing on his solidly rooted knowledge of African and Caribbean history. Rodney’s voice was not confined to Africa and the Caribbean but was also heard in North America and Europe. In the early-mid 1970s, to earn an income denied by the Burnham administration, he participated in discussions and lectures in Europe, Canada, and the U.S. In the U.S. he lectured at African Heritage Studies Association, Howard University, DC; the Institute of the Black World (IBW) in Atlanta, GA; the African Studies and Research Center, Cornell University; and the State University of New York, Binghamton. As the WPA gained popularity and momentum, the PNC began a campaign of harassment including police raids, house searches, beatings, and state-sanctioned killings. On July 11, 1979, Walter, together with seven WPA members, were arrested following the destruction of two government offices. Rodney and four others (known as the “Referendum Five”) faced trumped-up charges of arson, but without proof and intense scrutiny from international supporters, the government was forced to drop these charges. The persecution and violence against the opposition forces then intensified. Father Darke, a priest and photographer for the Catholic Standard Newspaper and supporter, was stabbed to death by members of the House of Israel led by American born Rabbi Washington. Two WPA members Ohene Kohama and Edward Dublin were killed by the police. The government denied Rodney and others permission to travel abroad. Despite this, Rodney continued his academic writings and political work; and he left Guyana clandestinely to attend Zimbabwe’s independence celebrations as a guest of President Robert Mugabe in May 1980. Though Rodney lived with constant police harassment and frequent threats against his life, he nonetheless managed to complete four books in the last year of his life: An academic work: A History of the Guyanese Working People, 1881-1905; A political call to action: People’s Power, No Dictator; and two children’s books: Kofi Baadu Out of Africa and Lakshmi Out of India. On Friday, June 13, 1980, while traveling in his car with his younger brother Donald, Walter Anthony Rodney was assassinated by a bomb in Georgetown, Guyana. He was 38 years old. Donald Rodney survived to become the only living witness of this state-sponsored assassination. In the 40 years since his assassisnation, Walter Rodney’s wife Patrica and their children have pursued justice. Justice was served on June 10, 2021, when the Government of Guyana accepted the report of the Commission of Inquiry (COI) concluding that Dr. Walter Anthony Rodney was assassinated by the agents of the State with the full knowledge of then President of the Republic of Guyana, Linden Forbes Samson Burnham. Walter Rodney Lives! Through the dissemination of his academic thought, work, and life; and as an example of a scholar-activist, teacher, and seeker of truth for the working class people of the African diaspora. Walter Rodney is survived by his wife Patricia Rodney and three children – Shaka Rodney, Kanini Z. Rodney-Phillips, and Asha T. Rodney. Walter and Patrica have four grandchildren – Asia Rodney Collins, Kai Walter Rodney Collins, Skye Bruce Rodney-Phillips, and Appeadua Krow-Rodney. Books Recently Republished - How Europe Underdeveloped Africa (Nov 2018) An exemplary work of political, economic, and historical analysis, powerfully introduced by Angela Davis - The Russian Revolution: A View from the Third World (July 2019) Renowned Pan-African and socialist theorist on the Bolshevik Revolution and its post-colonial legacy. - The Groundings with My Brothers (April 2019) A remarkable book on the international operations of racism and the global meaning of Black Power. - Decolonial Marxism: Essays from the Pan-African Revolution (August 2022) A previously unpublished collection of Rodney’s essays on race, colonialism, and Marxism. His Work Recognized as one of the Caribbean’s most brilliant minds, Rodney’s scholarly works and political activism engendered a new political consciousness. His Ph.D. thesis, A History of the Upper Guinea Coast, and his seminal work, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, illustrated his duality as an intellectual and activist as he challenged prevailing assumptions about African history and put forth his own ideas and models for analyzing the history of oppressed peoples. Walter Rodney provided a new construct for development theory and established a framework for analyzing current global socio-economic and political issues; thus becoming one of the first to bring a different perspective to the question of underdevelopment in Africa. Rodney’s ability to combine his scholarship with activism enabled him to become a voice for the under-represented and disenfranchised and distinguished him from his academic colleagues. His selfless commitment to the struggles for the liberation of working people in Guyana and other parts of the African Diaspora continues to be honored today. Copyright/Ownership Statement Dr. Patricia Rodney, wife of the late Dr. Walter Rodney, asserts copyright over all publications and writings of Walter Rodney. This includes, but is not limited to, his writings, works, likeness, image, oral presentations, lectures and speeches in any format (including audio and video recordings and any form of electronic reproduction). Except as otherwise expressly stated herein, they may not be copied, transmitted, displayed, performed, distributed (for compensation or otherwise), licensed, altered, framed, stored for subsequent use or otherwise used in whole or in part in any manner without our prior written consent, except to the extent permitted by the Copyright Act of 1976 (17 U.S.C. § 107), as amended. Our intent is not to inhibit the widespread dissemination of his ideas, but rather to ensure that the legacy of Walter Rodney is sustained. We strongly encourage those who have published (or intend to publish) his works without having first sought consent to contact The Walter Rodney Foundation at walterrodneyfoundation@gmail.com to discuss appropriate arrangements. We look forward to working with you to promote the life, legacy and works of Dr. Walter Rodney. Notice and Disclaimer The Rodney Family and the Walter Rodney Foundation are issuing the following disclaimer to preserve the legacy of Dr. Walter Rodney. As the disclaimer notes, there are statements made within the film that we disagree with. Close friends, colleagues, contemporaries, and associates of Dr. Rodney also disagree with those statements. In addition, Dr. Rodney is not here to state his own position. Furthermore, the lives and livelihoods of those involved in the struggle are irrevocably intertwined and affected by said statements. We are circulating the notice and disclaimer, in addition to posting it on the Foundation website, because it is our understanding that it is not being posted or declared on a consistent basis when the film is shown. Notice and Disclaimer about W.A.R. Stories: Walter Anthony Rodney The views expressed in W.A.R. Stories: Walter Anthony Rodney and related publications, communications are solely and respectively those of the Producer, Filmmaker and Writer Clairmont Chung and those of the individual narrators and/or interviewees as they so state. On information and belief, the film’s credits note that the Walter Rodney Foundation collaborated on the film. The Walter Rodney Foundation did not collaborate on this project and has requested that the producer/filmmaker cease and desist from using the name of the Foundation and remove its reference therefrom. The Rodney family, in part, was interviewed during the earlier phase of the film’s research, but did not review, edit, accept or release the final product. The statements made by the family within the production are clear and limited in both time and context. The inclusion of interviews of the family does not infer, presume or conclude that the family concurs, agrees, or otherwise supports the film, in part or in its entirety. Both the Walter Rodney Foundation and the Rodney Family disagree with statements made by one or more of the interviewees and the inferences and conclusions that are or can be drawn therefrom. The Walter Rodney Foundation and The Rodney family have requested that this disclaimer, in whole or in part, be noted and reproduced whenever and wherever the film is promoted, reviewed, shown, or shared, to the extent it is within the control of the producer/filmmaker, its agents, successors and assigns. In addition, the Walter Rodney Foundation and the Rodney Family assume no responsibility or liability, direct or indirect, arising from the content of the film, its reviews, publications, communications, and archives for any error, defamation, libel, slander, omission, falsehood, danger, or inaccuracy contained in any such information.


--- [The death of Walter Rodney - Freepress.org] ---
On 13 June 1980, Pan Africanists, African scholars, political activists and scholars of various disciplines were stunned by the news – Walter Rodney was dead at the age of 38. He died in Guyana, his home, as a result of a car bomb that also injured his brother, Donald. Recently returned from Zimbabwe in southern Africa where he had celebrated the independence of that nation from settler colonialism, Rodney had once again thrown himself into developing a Guyanese coalition of all who were historically disenfranchised in the South American nation – the poor, various ethnic groups and women. Best known as the author of How Europe Underdeveloped Africa, a classic exposition of the deliberate impoverishment of African nations, Rodney was also a dedicated activist who worked tirelessly in the Caribbean, Tanzania and Guyana to ensure an equitable distribution of resources for all. He founded the Working People’s Alliance in Guyana and its growth as a credible opposition is believed to have led to his death. While in 1993 the Guyanese government joined other governments and institutions worldwide in honoring Rodney by posthumously awarded him Guyana's highest honor, the Order of Excellence of Guyana and establishing the Walter Rodney Chair in History at the University of Guyana, his family and friends worldwide have never stopped seeking the truth regarding his assassination. Due to this pressure, the government has just announced the formation of the Walter Rodney Commission of Inquiry. This body is to seek information from any and all sources to ascertain the truth of the matter. WALTER RODNEY COMMISSION of INQUIRY Notice of Public Hearings The Walter Rodney Commission of Inquiry comprising Sir Richard Cheltenham, K.A., Q.C, Ph.D, as Chairman, Mrs. Jaqueline Samuels-Brown, Q.C. and Mr. Seenath Jairam, S.C., will be convening Public Hearings as follows - When – 28th, 29th, 30th April, 2014 and 2nd May, 2014. Where – Supreme Court Library Building, Victoria Law Courts, Avenue of the Republic & Charlotte Street, Georgetown, Demerara Purpose - The purpose of the hearings will be for the Commission to receive testimony and evidence from interested parties to enable it to- (i) examine the facts and circumstances immediately prior, at the time of, and subsequent to, the death of Dr. Walter Rodney in order to determine, as far as possible, who or what was responsible for the explosion resulting in the death of Dr. Walter Rodney; (ii) inquire into the cause of the explosion in which Dr. Walter Rodney died, whether it was an act of terrorism, and if so, who were the perpetrators; (iii) examine the role, if any, which the late Gregory Smith, Sergeant of the Guyana Defence Force, played in the death of Dr. Walter Rodney and if so, to inquire into who may have counselled, procured, aided and or abetted him to do so, including facilitating his departure from Guyana after Dr. Walter Rodney’s death; (iv) examine and report on the actions and activities of the State, such as, the Guyana Police Force, the Guyana National Service, the Guyana People’s Militia and those who were in command and superintendence of these agencies, to determine whether they were tasked with the surveillance of and the carrying out of actions, and whether they did execute those tasks and carried out those actions against the Political Opposition, for the period 1st January, 1978 to 31st December, 1980; (v) examine, review and report on earlier investigations and inquiries done on and into the death of Dr. Walter Rodney; Subsequent Hearings – The Commission will be accepting original and follow up statements from interested parties during the life of the Commission and will be setting subsequent hearing dates to facilitate the commission and attendance of witnesses. Witness Statements – All persons wishing to testify on these and subsequent hearing dates are asked to submit statements of their intended testimony in writing to the Commission. Persons who wish to testify but may need assistance in composing their witness statements will be assisted by the Commission Secretariat and are invited to contact the Secretariat at the address, telephone number or email as set out below- WALTER RODNEY COMMISSION of INQUIRY Top Floor, Supreme Court Library Building, Victoria Law Courts Avenue of the Republic & Charlotte Street Georgetown, Demerara Tel: (592)227-7729; email walterrodneysecretariat@gmail.com Nicola Pierre, Attorney-at-Law, Secretary. Further information can be obtained from: http://www.walterrodneyfoundation.org
