=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Wikipedia]
Ghulam Ishaq Khan[a] (20 January 1915 - 27 October 2006), commonly known by his initials GIK, was a Pakistani bureaucrat, politician and statesman who served as the seventh president of Pakistan from 1988 to 1993.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghulam_Ishaq_Khan

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan | PrideOfPakistan.com]
Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in politics, his son-in-law, Anwar Saifullah Khan is former federal minister and his granddaughter is married to Omar Ayub Khan, the grandson of former president Ayub Khan ...
URL: https://www.prideofpakistan.com/who-is-who-detail/Ghulam-Ishaq-Khan/779

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Pakpedia]
Jan 16, 2018 · Ghulam Ishaq Khan was a Pakistan-based bureaucrat and was elected for President of Pakistan’s post in 1988 and served until 1993. He founded GIKI (Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences & Technology). He was raised in Banu and did his graduation from Peshawar University. President Ayub Khan appointed him 1st chairperson of WAPDA (Water & Power Development Authority) in 1961 ...
URL: https://www.pakpedia.pk/ghulam-ishaq-khan/

[Pakistan - President Ghulam Ishaq Khan]
Pakistan Table of Contents A powerful player in the political equation was President Ishaq Khan. The president, under the constitution, is elected by a majority of the members of the national and provincial assemblies. Ishaq Khan was a seasoned senior bureaucrat-turned politician who had been a key figure in Pakistan for more than three decades. Born in 1915 in the North-West Frontier Province ...
URL: https://countrystudies.us/pakistan/77.htm

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Detailed Pedia]
Jan 1, 2025 · Ghulam Ishaq Khan was born in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu District, both villages in the North-West Frontier Province of the British Indian Empire, now Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, Pakistan. [1][2] He was a Pashtun of the Bangash tribe.
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-Ghulam_Ishaq_Khan


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Wikipedia] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan (20 January 1915 – 27 October 2006), commonly known by his initials GIK, was a Pakistani bureaucrat, politician and statesman who served as the seventh president of Pakistan from 1988 to 1993. He previously served as chairman of the Senate from 1985 to 1988 under president Zia-ul-Haq, and assumed the presidency in accordance with the constitutional line of succession following Zia's death .
Raised in Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Khan graduated from Peshawar University and entered the Indian Civil Service, opting for Pakistan after the independence in 1947. Appointed the first chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority by President Ayub Khan in 1961, Ghulam Ishaq also served as Finance Secretary from 1966 to 1970. A year later, he was appointed Governor of the State Bank by President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, before being made Defence Secretary in 1975, assisting with Pakistan's atomic bomb programme. He was retained by President Zia-ul-Haq as Finance Minister in 1977, overseeing the country's highest GDP growth average. Elected Chairman of the Senate in 1985, Khan was elevated to the presidency after Zia's death in an air crash on 17 August 1988. He was elected president on 13 December, as the consensus candidate of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad and Pakistan People's Party.
The oldest person to serve as president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan played a hawkish role against Communist Afghanistan, while relations with the United States deteriorated following the Pressler amendment. Domestically, Khan's term faced challenges: ethnic riots flared in Karachi, and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto accused him of frustrating her government as part of an alliance with conservative opposition leader Nawaz Sharif and the post-Zia military establishment. Khan invoked the Eighth Amendment and dismissed Benazir's government after just 20 months, on charges of rampant corruption and misgovernance. Sharif was elected Prime Minister in 1990, but Khan dismissed his government on similar charges three years later. The Supreme Court overturned the dismissal, but the gridlock ultimately led to both men resigning in 1993. He was the founder of his namesake Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute.
Retiring from public service, Khan served as rector of the GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology in his native province, dying from pneumonia in 2006. He is viewed contentiously by Pakistani historians; he is credited with personal austerity, but criticized for wielding an autocratic presidency that ousted two governments.


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan | PrideOfPakistan.com] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in Ghulam Ishaq Khan Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in politics, his son-in-law, Anwar Saifullah Khan is former federal minister and his granddaughter is married to Omar Ayub Khan, the grandson of former president Ayub Khan and son of politician Gohar Ayub Khan. After his early education in Bannu, Ghulam Ishaq Khan first attended the Islamia College and then went to Peshawar University. He obtained double BSc, in Chemistry and in Botany. Initially looking for a university job, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the Indian Civil Service in 1941, serving in various provincial assignments on behalf of British India. After independence in 1947, Ghulam Ishaq Khan opted for Pakistan and was assigned to the bureaucracy of the provincial government of North-West Frontier Province (now KPK) in 1947. He served as the secretary of the irrigation department, until 1955. In 1956, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was appointed Home Secretary of Sindh, and later Secretary of Sindh Department of Development and Irrigation. In 1958, he was elevated to federal government, and was appointed as the secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1958, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the board of governors at the Water and Power Development Authority and subsequently promoted to Chairman in 1961. As Chairman, he played a vital role in the construction and financial development of Mangla Dam and Warsak Dam. In 1966, Ghulam Ishaq Khan left the chairmanship to be appointed as Finance Secretary. In 1971, Zulifiqar Ali Bhutto appointed him Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and in 1975, posted him at the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as Defence Secretary, which brought him into close contact with the military establishment. Though an unusual assignment for a financial expert, this appointment made him a power bureaucrat in the country. During that time, Ghulam Ishaq Khan became closer to General Zia-ul-Haq and had later coveted for General Zia-ul-Haq's appointment as the chief of army staff. As Defence Secretary, he helped manage the Pakistan's large but integrated nuclear project and had been directly associated with the programme. He backed the advocacy of Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan and helped establishing the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL) in Kahuta. He headed the Uranium Coordination Board (UCB) which consisted of AGN Kazi, Munir Ahmad, and Agha Shahi and later helped to consolidate the efforts at ERL under Lt. Gen. Zahid Ali Akbar as its first military director. After approving the survey by General Akbar, he helped to secure the funds for the ERL works and providing lobbying for General Akbar's promotion as the Engineer-in-Chief. After the Prime Minister Bhutto was ousted in a staged coup d'état in 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan played a crucial role in the event of stabilizing chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq, in Bhutto's capacity. After meeting with the military leadership at the JS HQ, Ghulam Ishaq Khan reportedly marked that, this action was going to harm the country, but since it could not be reversed, they should do their best to salvage whatever they could. He was immediately elevated as Finance Minister by General Zia-ul-Haq, who acted as the Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA). A team of economic experts and technocrats were assembled in the management of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, and giving him the authority over the Planning Commission, Economic Coordination Committee, and Executive Committee of the Space Research Council. Ghulam Ishaq Khan worked towards controlling the national economy while harnessing the damaged Private sector. In 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan endorsed General Zia-ul-Haq's bid for becoming the President of Pakistan who tightened the grip of martial law in the country. In the 1980s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan backed the implementation of the economic Islamization by introducing the risk-free interest rate system. He managed the revenue collection and provided the modern shape in the state–owned enterprises (SOEs) that were established in a nationalization in the 1970s. His policies and economic expertise ultimately resulted in the improvement in GDP and GNP progress, helping Pakistan's economy become among the fastest-growing in South Asia. After the non-partisan general elections held in 1985, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was succeeded by Mahbub ul Haq an economist and decided to participate in the upcoming indirect senate elections. In 1985, he became Chairman of the Senate which he remained intact in that capacity until 1988. After the mysterious plane crash occurred in Bahawalpur, Ghulam Ishaq Khan appeared on national television to announce the death of General Zia-ul-Haq. According to the Constitution of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was the second in the line of succession to the President of Pakistan. However, General Mirza Aslam Beg called out for the general elections held in 1988. Until the elections, Ghulam Ishaq Khan served as an acting President in accordance with the Constitutional rules of succession. Reaching the mutual understanding with the leftist Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP), Ghulam Ishaq Khan participated in presidential elections on a PPP platform. He secured 608 votes against the four candidates who took part in the election. He was also supported by the conservative Nawaz Sharif. As president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was marred with political struggle with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto who attempted for pushing the bill to reverse the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan. Furthermore, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was in a conflict with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in two areas, the appointment of the military chiefs of staff and the Justices of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Ghulam Ishaq Khan consolidated his position in controlling the nuclear deterrence, keeping all the control over the programme's direction. Problems arose when Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto made contacts with Dr. Munir Ahmad and Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan over the programme's direction, which frustrated Ghulam Ishaq Khan. Economic growth slowed down and introduction of the US Embargo on Pakistan caused a great economic panic in the country. In the 1990s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto failed to arrest the 30% fall in the value of Rupee from 21 to 30 to the US $. Ghulam Ishaq Khan struggled to control the law and order in the country after witnessing the troop retreat from Afghanistan. Although, he maintained an ally of the United States. As economic and law and order crises deepened, Ghulam Ishaq Khan used Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Pakistan and dismissed Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government over the charges of corruption and deteriorating law and order situation and announced the fresh elections in the country. After holding the general elections in 1993, he supported Nawaz Sharif as Prime Minister and his government. Problems with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif arose with the issue of reversing the Eighth Amendment when Nawaz Sharif tried to pass the bill. Eventually, he used the Eighth Amendment to dismiss Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on similar charges, but Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif retaliated and challenged him in the Supreme Court of Pakistan. His attempt to use the Eighth Amendment was marked as illegal by the Supreme Court of Pakistan, and reinstated Prime Minister Sharif. But, the political deadlock remained and the joint intervention of judiciary and the military resulted in forced resignation of both Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Ghulam Ishaq Khan. In 1988, Ghulam Ishaq Khan founded and established the famed Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology that offers world-class programmes in engineering, and science and technology in the country. The university was established with the financial support from BCCI. He invited Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, who took the professorship of physics and delegated Asghar Qadir, a PAEC mathematician, to take professorship in mathematics. He died on 27 October 2006, after a bout of pneumonia.


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Pakpedia] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan was a Pakistan-based bureaucrat and was elected for President of Pakistan’s post in 1988 and served until 1993. He founded GIKI (Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences & Technology). He was raised in Banu and did his graduation from Peshawar University. President Ayub Khan appointed him 1st chairperson of WAPDA (Water & Power Development Authority) in 1961. From 1966-1970 he served as a Finance Secretary. A year later President Zulfiqar Bhutto made him Governor of Pakistan State Bank and in 1975 was designated as Defense Secretary and assisted in atomic bomb program of Pakistan. In 1977 President Zia-ul-Haq appointed him Finance Minister. He spent decades in power from 1955 to 1993 and was awarded Sitara-e-Pakistan and Hilal-e-Pakistan for his outstanding services. This article contains all the information about him, including Ghulam Ishaq Khan Biography. | Title | Description | |---|---| | Personal | | | Name: | Ghulam Ishaq Khan | | In Urdu: | غلام اسحاق خان | | Famous As: | Civil Servant and a Bureaucrat | | Nationality: | Pakistani | | Education: | Double BSc, in Chemistry and in Botany | | Religion: | Islam | | Profession: | Politician | | Alma Mater: | University of Peshawar (BSc), Civil Services Academy | | Born | | | Date: | 20 January 1915 | | Place: | Ismail Khel, North-West Frontier Province, British India (now in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan) | | Died | | | Date: | 27 October 2006 | | Rest Place: | Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan | | Career | | | Political Party: | Independent | | In-Office | | | Role: | Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan | | Dates: | 22 December 1971 – 30 November 1975 | | President : | Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry | | Prime Minister: | Zulfikar Ali Bhutto | | Preceded By: | Shakur Durrani | | Succeeded By: | S. Osman Ali | | In-Office 2 | | | Role: | Defence Secretary of Pakistan | | Dates: | 12 October 1975 – 5 July 1977 | | President: | President Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry | | Prime Minister: | Zulfikar Ali Bhutto | | Preceded By: | Fazal Muqeem Khan | | Succeeded By: | Ghulam Jilani Khan | | Finance Minister of Pakistan: | In-office: July 5, 1977 – 21 March 1985 | | President : | Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry Zia-ul-Haq | | Preceded by : | Abdul Hafiz Pirzada | | Preceded by : | Mahbub ul Haq | | Chairman of the Senate: | In-office: 21 March 1985 – 12 December 1988 | | Preceded by : | Habibullah Khan | | Succeeded by : | Wasim Sajjad | | 7th President of Pakistan: | In-office: 17 August 1988 – 18 July 1993 | | Prime Minister: | Benazir Bhutto Ghulam Mustafa (Caretaker) Nawaz Sharif | | Preceded by : | Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq | | Succeeded by Wasim Sajjad (Acting): | Succeeded by Wasim Sajjad (Acting) | Table of Contents Ghulam Ishaq Khan Biography Ishaq Khan was a quiet personality of Pakistani politics. Born in a backward village, he emerged through several bureaucratic jobs to the presidential post. He didn’t own democratic power, nor he was a powerful man like other generals who snatched power and authority in Pakistan. Still, he dismissed elected Prime Ministers and appeared as the most powerful and authoritative man in Pakistan. As a bureaucrat, he was known as a moral, conservative and honest person. The silent oversight of Pakistan’s nuclear program at a critical time and the formation of an institution like the Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Science and Technology are symbols of his compassion and patriotism. But at last, moment, when he tried to jump into a pool of politics, splatter fell not only on himself but also on some of his family members. And with all his joys, sorrows, successes and failures, he left quietly. Ishaq Date of Birth He was born on January 20 1915, in the Ismail Khel area of Bannu. Education of Ishaq After elementary education, he graduated from Peshawar with a degree in Chemistry and Botany. Ghulam Ishaq Khan Family He belonged to the Bangash tribe of Pashtuns. His family is also making his mark in politics. His son-in-law Anwar Saifullah Khan served as a federal minister and Irfan-Ullah Khan another son-in-law served at Sindh ministry and advisor’s posts. Khan’s one granddaughter got married to ANP’s Haroon Bilour. The other tied the knot with Umar Ayub Khan, grandson of ex-military dictator Ayub Khan and son of a political figure Gohar Ayub Khan. Career He served in many government positions before entering politics. He joined the Indian Civil Service in 1940. Appointment as Secretary Irrigation In 1955, when two provinces were formed under West and East Pakistan under One Unit, Khan was appointed Secretary Irrigation of West Pakistan. In this capacity, he continued to provide government assistance in matters of Pakistan-India river water distribution. Head of WAPDA In 1961, he became the head of WAPDA and held the post until 1965. He then served as Secretary of the Treasury for more than five years. Governor of State Bank After the Bhutto government’s formation, he continued to serve as the State Bank Governor until 1975. After that, he was given the portfolio of Secretary-General of Defense. He oversaw Pakistan’s nuclear program and established direct relations with his army’s top leadership. Services to Finance Department When General Zia-ul-Haq overthrew the Bhutto government in 1970, Khan was first appointed Finance Adviser and then Finance Minister. He supported General Zia’s plan of transforming the economy into an Islamic one. Services as Chairperson of Senate When the limited and cautious process of restoring democracy began in the late 1984 elections due to non-partisan elections, he was made chairman of the Senate, a constitutional successor to the President. Announced Death of Zia-ul-Haq Thus, when Khan, the acting President, officially confirmed on August 17, 1988, that President Zia-ul-Haq’s plane had exploded in the air, the whole country was waiting to see when the army would take power. But that did not happen. On the contrary, General Zia’s non-partisan formula was put on hold. Three months later, as a result of the party-based general election, the PPP emerged as the majority party. Appointment as President of Pakistan But to balance power of PPP during this period, a force in the form of Islamic Democratic Alliance was set up with ISI’s help. Power was conditionally transferred to the PPP. And under the deal, Khan, with the joint support of the PPP and the IJI, was elected the seventh president of Pakistan in December 1988 over Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan. Removal of Nawaz He had the power to dismiss the elected parliament and government under Article VIII of the Eighth Amendment and appoint judges of the armed forces’ judiciary and heads. The Supreme Court did not declare unconstitutional the Benazir Bhutto government’s first dismissal by President Zia-ul-Haq in June 1988 and then by Ghulam Ishaq in 1990. However, the Nawaz Sharif government’s removal was declared unconstitutional and ordered its restoration in May 1993. Removal from Presidential Posts As a result, the federal structure fell into a deadlock. Therefore, under the pressure of General Abdul Waheed Kakar, the Chief of Army Staff, the restored Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the late President Ishaq had to leave their posts. After Khan’s forceful retirement, he became so isolated in Peshawar that he neither wrote his biography nor gave any interviews. Relationship with Nawaz Shareef Before becoming the Senate’s chairman, he held some such posts where the country’s most prominent businessmen and industrialists tried to outdo each other in opening his car doors. In this regard, the Sharif family and the Ittefaq group had a long association with him. The Sharif family also kept in touch with him regarding the manufacture and supply of military equipment. At that time, Mian Nawaz’s humility and generosity were very pleasing to Khan. Favours to Nawaz Family Former President did a lot of favours to this family when he was the Governor SBP. When he became the Federal Minister of Finance, his special attention was on this family, due to which CBR (now FBR) issued such SROs that benefited the Ittefaq Group. Relations between President Ghulam and PM Muhammad Nawaz Shareef have been cordial for at least a year. Conflicts Between Ishaq and Nawaz In December 1991, for the first time, these ties started damaging. Addressing a joint meeting of the two parties, Benazir Bhutto was cursing the President. Following Benazir’s example, the entire opposition was making similar moves. Diplomatic representatives sitting in the gallery, navy, air force chiefs, national and international media representatives were all watching the scene. Still, Nawaz Sharif or his ruling party did not resist but became spectators. Founder of GIKI During his tenure as President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan founded GIKI (Ghulam Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences & Technology) in 1993. Since its foundation, this institute has attracted the most influential and competent scientists such as Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan, Shaukat Hameed, and Asghar Qadir. They worked hard to elevate this institute the leading sciences and engineering institute of the world. The institute was founded when Ishaq realized the dependence of Pakistan on imported technology and foreign expertise. So, he decided to establish a leading and well-equipped institute of engineering and production technology in Pakistan. Infaq Foundation and Benevolent Community Care donated about Fifty million rupees for transforming the idea of Khan into practical form. Ghulam Ishaq Khan Death He passed away on October 27, 2006, due to pneumonia.


--- [Pakistan - President Ghulam Ishaq Khan] ---
| Pakistan Table of Contents A powerful player in the political equation was President Ishaq Khan. The president, under the constitution, is elected by a majority of the members of the national and provincial assemblies. Ishaq Khan was a seasoned senior bureaucrat-turned politician who had been a key figure in Pakistan for more than three decades. Born in 1915 in the North-West Frontier Province, he was appointed to the prestigious Civil Service of Pakistan after independence in 1947. After holding various regional posts, including being chairman of the West Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (1961-66), he was appointed to several positions in the central government--first as secretary, Ministry of Finance (1966-70) and later as governor of the State Bank of Pakistan (1971-75). In the latter position, he questioned the wisdom of a number of the economic policies of then Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. He was subsequently moved from the bank and made secretary general at the Ministry of Defence. Although an unusual post for a senior economics expert, it proved to be fortuitous in that it brought him into close contact with the senior officers of the armed forces. Among them was General Zia, who later ousted Bhutto and turned the management of the economy over to Ishaq Khan. During the martial law period (1977- 85), Ishaq Khan's titles changed, but he was responsible for all important economic decisions. Among other things, he supported the Zia government's efforts to Islamize the economy by changes in the fiscal and banking systems. In 1985 Ishaq Khan was elected to the Senate and later became chairman of the Senate. The death of Zia in 1988 thrust Ishaq Khan to the center of the political stage. When the military decided to use the constitution to handle the issue of succession, Ishaq Khan, as chairman of the Senate and therefore next in the line of succession, became acting president. He and the emergency council he instituted decided to hold general elections and to allow political parties to participate. Thus, the country was guided back to democracy, Benazir became prime minister, and Ishaq Khan was subsequently elected president by the national and provincial assemblies. Ishaq Khan's position was considerably strengthened by the Eighth Amendment to the constitution, introduced by President Zia, which allows the president to dismiss the government and to override the government's choice of army chief. When the previous army chief died unexpectedly, President Ishaq Khan reportedly turned down the government's choice and named General Abdul Waheed to head the army. General Waheed, who is not known to have any political ambitions, is from the same ethnic group as Ishaq Khan--the Pakhtuns of the North-West Frontier Province. Intermittent and conflicting signals of rapprochement, realignment, and behind-the-scenes alliances among the various political players heightened the political tension in late 1992 and early 1993. There was speculation that the opposition and the government might join forces to muster a two-thirds majority in the parliament to repeal the Eighth Amendment or even that they might field a candidate against the president. However, it was also noticeable that Benazir had stopped openly attacking the president, and some observers considered that she might be playing for time, hoping to use the differences between the president and the prime minister to her own advantage. The army, however, always a key ingredient in the mix, continued to support the president as well as the continuation of the Eighth Amendment. Against this backdrop, Pakistan's developing democracy continued to be tested by economic problems, persistent violence, and corruption, as well as the power struggles of its leaders. More about the Government of Pakistan. Custom Search Source: U.S. Library of Congress |


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Detailed Pedia] ---
No content
