=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chandrayaan-3]
It entered lunar orbit on 5 August, and touched down near the lunar south pole, at 69°S, on 23 August 2023 at 18:04 IST (12:33 UTC).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandrayaan-3

[India becomes only the 4th country to successfully land a spacecraft on ...]
Aug 23, 2023 — NEW DELHI (AP) — India on Wednesday landed a spacecraft near the moon's south pole, an uncharted territory that scientists believe could ...
URL: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-becomes-the-only-the-4th-country-to-successfully-land-a-spacecraft-on-the-moon

[India joins an elite club as first to land a spacecraft near the moon's south pole]
Aug 23, 2023 — India's Chandrayaan-3 — "moon craft" in Sanskrit — took off from a launchpad in Sriharikota in southern India on July 14. Its landing marks a ...
URL: https://www.npr.org/2023/08/23/1195411957/india-joins-an-elite-club-as-first-to-land-a-spacecraft-near-the-moons-south-pol

[How India Became the First Country to Reach the Moon's South Pole - TIME]
Aug 23, 2023 — On Aug. 23, India won the cosmic competition, setting Chandrayaan-3 down gently in the polar dust at 8:34 AM ET.
URL: https://time.com/6307329/india-moon-landing-south-pole/

[Chandrayaan-1_Science]
Jun 10, 2024 — Chandrayaan-1, India's first mission to Moon, was launched successfully on October 22, 2008 from SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota. The spacecraft ...
URL: https://www.isro.gov.in/Chandrayaan-1_science.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chandrayaan-3] ---
Chandrayaan-3 (CHUN-drə-YAHN ) is the third mission in the Chandrayaan programme, a series of lunar-exploration missions developed by ISRO. The mission consists of Vikram, a lunar lander, and Pragyan, a lunar rover, as replacements for the equivalents on Chandrayaan-2, which had crashed on landing in 2019.
The spacecraft was launched on July 14, 2023, at 14:35 IST from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, India. It entered lunar orbit on 5 August, and touched down near the lunar south pole, at 69°S, on 23 August 2023 at 18:04 IST (12:33 UTC). With this landing, ISRO became the fourth national space agency to successfully land on the Moon, after the Soviet space program, NASA and CNSA, and the first organization in the recorded human history to achieve a soft landing near the lunar south pole.
The lander was not built to withstand the cold temperatures of the lunar night, so it was shut down at sunset over the landing site, twelve days after landing. The orbiting propulsion module remained operational and was repurposed for scientific observations of Earth; it was shifted from lunar orbit to a high Earth orbit on 22 November 2023, where it remains in service.




--- [India becomes only the 4th country to successfully land a spacecraft on ...] ---
By — Ashok Sharma, Associated Press Ashok Sharma, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-becomes-the-only-the-4th-country-to-successfully-land-a-spacecraft-on-the-moon Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter India becomes only the 4th country to successfully land a spacecraft on the moon World Aug 23, 2023 9:27 AM EST NEW DELHI (AP) — India on Wednesday landed a spacecraft near the moon's south pole, an uncharted territory that scientists believe could hold vital reserves of frozen water and precious elements, as the country cements its growing prowess in space and technology. READ MORE: Astronauts get first look at the Artemis II spacecraft that will fly them around the moon A lander with a rover inside touched down on the lunar surface at 6:04 local time, sparking cheers and applause among the space scientists watching in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru. After a failed attempt nearly four years ago, India made history by becoming the first country to touch down near the little-explored south pole region and joins the United States, the Soviet Union and China in achieving a moon landing. India's successful landing comes just days after Russia's Luna-25, which was aiming for the same lunar region, spun into an uncontrolled orbit and crashed. It would have been the first successful Russian lunar landing after a gap of 47 years. Russia's head of the state-controlled space corporation Roscosmos attributed the failure to the lack of expertise due to the long break in lunar research that followed the last Soviet mission to the moon in 1976. Excited and anxious, people across India, home to the world's largest population, crowded around televisions in offices, shops, restaurants and homes. Thousands prayed Tuesday for the success of the mission with oil lamps on the river banks, temples and religious places, including the holy city of Varanasi in northern India. India's Chandrayaan-3 — "moon craft" in Sanskrit — took off from a launchpad in Sriharikota in southern India on July 14. "India's pursuit of space exploration reaches a remarkable milestone with the impending Chandrayaan-3 Mission, poised to achieve a soft landing on the lunar surface. This achievement marks a significant step forward for Indian Science, Engineering, Technology, and Industry, symbolizing our nation's progress in space exploration," the Indian Space Research Organization said in a statement earlier on Wednesday. They said a successful Chandrayaan-3 landing would be monumental in fueling curiosity and sparking a passion for exploration among youth. "It generates a profound sense of pride and unity as we collectively celebrate the prowess of Indian science and technology. It will contribute to fostering an environment of scientific inquiry and innovation," the organization said. Many countries and private companies are interested in the south pole region because permanently shadowed craters may hold frozen water that could help future astronaut missions. The six-wheeled lander and rover module of Chandrayaan-3 is configured with payloads that would provide data to the scientific community on the properties of lunar soil and rocks, including chemical and elemental compositions. India's previous attempt to land a robotic spacecraft near the moon's little-explored south pole ended in failure in 2019. It entered the lunar orbit but lost touch with its lander, which crashed while making its final descent to deploy a rover to search for signs of water. According to a failure analysis report submitted to the ISRO, the crash was caused by a software glitch. The $140-million mission in 2019 was intended to study permanently shadowed moon craters that are thought to contain water deposits and were confirmed by India's Chandrayaan-1 orbiter mission in 2008. With nuclear-armed India emerging as the world's fifth-largest economy last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nationalist government is eager to showcase India's rising standing as a technology and space powerhouse. A successful moon mission dovetails with Modi's image of an ascendant India asserting its place among the global elite and would help bolster his popularity ahead of a crucial general election next year. The anticipation for a successful landing rose after Russia's failed attempt and as India's regional rival China reaches for new milestones in space. In May, China launched a three-person crew for its orbiting space station and hopes to put astronauts on the moon before the end of the decade. Relations between India and China have plunged since deadly border clashes in 2020. Numerous countries and private companies are racing to successfully land a spacecraft on the lunar surface. In April, a Japanese company's spacecraft apparently crashed while attempting to land on the moon. An Israeli nonprofit tried to achieve a similar feat in 2019, but its spacecraft was destroyed on impact. Japan plans to launch a lunar lander to the moon over the weekend as part of an X-ray telescope mission, and two U.S. companies also are vying to put landers on the moon by the end of the year, one of them at the south pole. In the coming years, NASA plans to land astronauts at the lunar south pole, taking advantage of the frozen water in craters. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now By — Ashok Sharma, Associated Press Ashok Sharma, Associated Press NEW DELHI (AP) — India on Wednesday landed a spacecraft near the moon's south pole, an uncharted territory that scientists believe could hold vital reserves of frozen water and precious elements, as the country cements its growing prowess in space and technology. READ MORE: Astronauts get first look at the Artemis II spacecraft that will fly them around the moon A lander with a rover inside touched down on the lunar surface at 6:04 local time, sparking cheers and applause among the space scientists watching in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru. After a failed attempt nearly four years ago, India made history by becoming the first country to touch down near the little-explored south pole region and joins the United States, the Soviet Union and China in achieving a moon landing. India's successful landing comes just days after Russia's Luna-25, which was aiming for the same lunar region, spun into an uncontrolled orbit and crashed. It would have been the first successful Russian lunar landing after a gap of 47 years. Russia's head of the state-controlled space corporation Roscosmos attributed the failure to the lack of expertise due to the long break in lunar research that followed the last Soviet mission to the moon in 1976. Excited and anxious, people across India, home to the world's largest population, crowded around televisions in offices, shops, restaurants and homes. Thousands prayed Tuesday for the success of the mission with oil lamps on the river banks, temples and religious places, including the holy city of Varanasi in northern India. India's Chandrayaan-3 — "moon craft" in Sanskrit — took off from a launchpad in Sriharikota in southern India on July 14. "India's pursuit of space exploration reaches a remarkable milestone with the impending Chandrayaan-3 Mission, poised to achieve a soft landing on the lunar surface. This achievement marks a significant step forward for Indian Science, Engineering, Technology, and Industry, symbolizing our nation's progress in space exploration," the Indian Space Research Organization said in a statement earlier on Wednesday. They said a successful Chandrayaan-3 landing would be monumental in fueling curiosity and sparking a passion for exploration among youth. "It generates a profound sense of pride and unity as we collectively celebrate the prowess of Indian science and technology. It will contribute to fostering an environment of scientific inquiry and innovation," the organization said. Many countries and private companies are interested in the south pole region because permanently shadowed craters may hold frozen water that could help future astronaut missions. The six-wheeled lander and rover module of Chandrayaan-3 is configured with payloads that would provide data to the scientific community on the properties of lunar soil and rocks, including chemical and elemental compositions. India's previous attempt to land a robotic spacecraft near the moon's little-explored south pole ended in failure in 2019. It entered the lunar orbit but lost touch with its lander, which crashed while making its final descent to deploy a rover to search for signs of water. According to a failure analysis report submitted to the ISRO, the crash was caused by a software glitch. The $140-million mission in 2019 was intended to study permanently shadowed moon craters that are thought to contain water deposits and were confirmed by India's Chandrayaan-1 orbiter mission in 2008. With nuclear-armed India emerging as the world's fifth-largest economy last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nationalist government is eager to showcase India's rising standing as a technology and space powerhouse. A successful moon mission dovetails with Modi's image of an ascendant India asserting its place among the global elite and would help bolster his popularity ahead of a crucial general election next year. The anticipation for a successful landing rose after Russia's failed attempt and as India's regional rival China reaches for new milestones in space. In May, China launched a three-person crew for its orbiting space station and hopes to put astronauts on the moon before the end of the decade. Relations between India and China have plunged since deadly border clashes in 2020. Numerous countries and private companies are racing to successfully land a spacecraft on the lunar surface. In April, a Japanese company's spacecraft apparently crashed while attempting to land on the moon. An Israeli nonprofit tried to achieve a similar feat in 2019, but its spacecraft was destroyed on impact. Japan plans to launch a lunar lander to the moon over the weekend as part of an X-ray telescope mission, and two U.S. companies also are vying to put landers on the moon by the end of the year, one of them at the south pole. In the coming years, NASA plans to land astronauts at the lunar south pole, taking advantage of the frozen water in craters. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now


--- [India joins an elite club as first to land a spacecraft near the moon's south pole] ---
India joins an elite club as first to land a spacecraft near the moon's south pole NEW DELHI — India became the first country to land a spacecraft near the moon's south pole on Wednesday — a historic voyage to uncharted territory that scientists believe could hold vital reserves of frozen water, and a technological triumph for the world's most populous nation. A lander with a rover inside touched down on the lunar surface at 6:04 p.m. local time, sparking celebrations around India, including in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru, where space scientists watching the landing erupted in cheers and applause. After a failed attempt in 2019, India now joins the United States, the Soviet Union and China in reaching this milestone. The successful moon mission showcases India's rising standing as a technology and space powerhouse and dovetails with the image of the country that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to project: an ascendant country asserting its place among the global elite. "India is now on the moon. India has reached the south pole of the moon — no other country has achieved that. We are witnessing history," Modi said as he waved the Indian tri-colored flag while watching the historic landing from South Africa, where he is participating in the BRICS nations summit. The lunar rover will slide down a flap from the lander within hours or a day and conduct experiments, including an analysis of the mineral composition of the lunar surface, said S. Somnath, chairman of the state-run Indian Space Research Organization. Somnath said the mission is expected to last two weeks, and that India would next attempt a manned lunar mission. Nuclear-armed India grew to become the world's fifth-largest economy last year, and the success of the lunar mission will likely help Modi's popularity ahead of a crucial general election next year. India's successful landing comes just days after Russia's Luna-25, which was aiming for the same lunar region, spun into an uncontrolled orbit and crashed. It would have been the first successful Russian lunar landing after a gap of 47 years. Russia's head of the state-controlled space corporation Roscosmos attributed the failure to the lack of expertise due to the long break in lunar research that followed the last Soviet mission to the moon in 1976. Prayers for a successful mission Excited and anxious, people across India, home to the world's largest population, crowded around televisions in offices, shops, restaurants and homes. Thousands prayed Tuesday for the success of the mission with oil lamps on the river banks, temples and religious places, including the holy city of Varanasi in northern India. Dozens of people in a government-run planetarium started praying with folded hands as the lander approached the lunar surface for landing. They switched to cheering and clapping as the touch down happened. A man waved a banner reading ''The Moon in India's arms." Shrini Singh, a New Delhi resident, said she got goosebumps. ''It's a very happy moment ... you can see the energy. It's beyond words." Mitakshi Sinha, a student, said the space agency's success motivated her. "And now I also want to be part of ISRO." After the landing, congratulations poured in from around the world, cementing India's emergence as a modern space power. "Your success will power the imagination and light the future of people around the world," the U.S. State Department's Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs posted on X, formerly known as Twitter. "Incredible!" European Space Agency's director general Josef Aschbacher tweeted. "I am thoroughly impressed." NASA's former science mission chief, Thomas Zurbuchen, who now works at ETH Zurich, a public research university in Switzerland where he is leading its space initiative, said he felt proud of the achievement. India's Chandrayaan-3 — "moon craft" in Sanskrit — took off from a launchpad in Sriharikota in southern India on July 14. Its landing marks a significant step forward for the nation's progress in space exploration, the Indian Space Research Organization said in a statement earlier. Much interest in south pole region Many countries and private companies are interested in the south pole region because permanently shadowed craters may hold frozen water that could help future astronaut missions. The six-wheeled lander and rover module of Chandrayaan-3 is configured with payloads that would provide data to the scientific community on the properties of lunar soil and rocks, including chemical and elemental compositions. India's previous attempt to land a robotic spacecraft near the moon's little-explored south pole ended in failure in 2019. It entered the lunar orbit but lost touch with its lander, which crashed while making its final descent to deploy a rover to search for signs of water. According to a failure analysis report submitted to the ISRO, the crash was caused by a software glitch. The $140-million mission in 2019 was intended to study permanently shadowed moon craters that are thought to contain water deposits and were confirmed by India's Chandrayaan-1 orbiter mission in 2008. The anticipation for a successful landing rose after Russia's failed attempt and as India's regional rival China reaches for new milestones in space. In May, China launched a three-person crew for its orbiting space station and hopes to put astronauts on the moon before the end of the decade. Relations between India and China have plunged since deadly border clashes in 2020. Numerous countries and private companies are racing to successfully land a spacecraft on the lunar surface. In April, a Japanese company's spacecraft apparently crashed while attempting to land on the moon. An Israeli nonprofit tried to achieve a similar feat in 2019, but its spacecraft was destroyed on impact. Japan plans to launch a lunar lander to the moon over the weekend as part of an X-ray telescope mission, and two U.S. companies also are vying to put landers on the moon by the end of the year, one of them at the south pole. In the coming years, NASA plans to land astronauts at the lunar south pole, taking advantage of the frozen water in craters. Pallava Bagla, a science writer and co-author of books on India's space exploration, said the Russian failure days earlier did not put India off. He also said lessons learned from India's failed mission four years ago were incorporated and a flawless mission was executed on Wednesday. "Indians didn't get derailed. They continued the journey with strength and confidence that paid off," he said.


--- [How India Became the First Country to Reach the Moon's South Pole - TIME] ---
And then there was one. Since earlier this month, there had been something of a footrace in space, with India and Russia vying to be the first country to land a spacecraft in the moon’s south polar region. On July 14, the Indian spacecraft, Chandrayaan-3, blasted off from the Satish Dhawan Space Center in southeastern India, carrying a 1,726 kg (3,805 lb) lander, which itself contains a little 26 kg (57 lb) rover. Then on Aug. 9, Russia followed in hot pursuit, launching its 1,750 kg (3,858 lb) Luna 25 lander from the newly built Vostochny Cosmodrome in the country’s far eastern Amur Oblast region. On Aug. 23, India won the cosmic competition, setting Chandrayaan-3 down gently in the polar dust at 8:34 AM ET. “We have achieved a soft landing on the moon,” announced S. Somanath, the chairman of ISRO—the Indian Space Research Organization, to a packed mission control. “India is on the moon!” “India’s successful moon mission is not just India’s alone,” added Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a live address to the control center and the nation. “This success belongs to all of humanity. And it will help moon missions by other countries in the future.” Moments later he expanded the celebration to X, (formerly Twitter), writing, “Historic day for India’s space sector. Congratulations to @isro for the remarkable success of Chandrayaan-3 mission.” That India and Russia were in a race at all despite India’s 26-day head start was due to the fact that ISRO sent Chandrayaan-3 on a relatively leisurely five-week trajectory, making an ever-widening series of looping orbits around the Earth until it at last reached the the lunar vicinity, where it was captured by the moon’s gravity. Luna 25 was sent on a more direct path, one designed to get it to the moon in less than two weeks. Both ships were targeted for landing on or about Aug. 23. But that was then. On Aug. 16, Luna 25 achieved lunar orbit; but on Aug. 20, it crashed into the moon’s surface, after an engine firing, intended to fine-tune its descent, went awry. “At about 14:57 Moscow time, communication with the Luna-25 spacecraft was interrupted,” said Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, in a post on Telegram, translated by Google Translate. “According to the results of a preliminary analysis, [the spacecraft] switched to an off-design orbit and ceased to exist as a result of a collision with the lunar surface.” Even as heads bowed at Roscosmos, fists pumped at ISRO because that was the same day Chandrayaan-3 entered lunar orbit and posted images on X of the moon’s far side. Modi wasn’t kidding when he said the landing was historic. Three other countries—the U.S., China, and the former Soviet Union—have also achieved soft lunar landings, but none has ever reached the south lunar pole, and that’s not for lack of trying. In 2019, Israel’s privately built and funded Beresheet spacecraft crashed after ground controllers lost touch with it when it was only 149 m (489 ft.) above the polar soil. In late April, a Japanese probe carrying a rover built by the United Arab Emirates came to ruin in the same region, when it too lost contact with Earth and went into a 4.8 km (3 mi.) death plunge before making impact with the surface. The moon’s south pole is one of the harder places on the lunar surface to land because it is heavily boulder strewn, without the wide, flat expanses that the Apollo astronauts and early uncrewed landers targeted in the equatorial regions of the moon’s Earth-facing hemisphere. Of the spacecraft that have crashed in the south pole, none got close enough to try to negotiate the boulder fields. That ISRO was able to do so—briefly placing Chandrayaan-3 in hover mode when it was 850 m (2,800 ft.) above the surface while it looked for a clear parking spot—is a testament both to the nimbleness of the ship and the deft touch of the engineers in mission control. Despite the hazards, there is good reason for the world’s space agencies and private space companies to continue targeting the south pole. Scientists had long believed that the lunar regolith—or soil—might be shot through with crystals of water ice. More significantly, there had been speculation that permanently shadowed craters in the south pole might effectively be frozen lakes. India’s Chandrayaan-1, launched in 2008, proved those theories correct. An on-board spectrometer confirmed the existence of the icy regolith, and a 29 kg (64 lb.) impactor probe dropped on the south pole proved the existence of water there too just before it hit. For future astronauts hoping to settle the moon and live off the land, that matters a lot. Not only can ice be harvested for drinking water, the H20 molecule can be broken down to provide breathable oxygen, and the hydrogen and oxygen can be recombined to make rocket fuel. It’s for that reason that NASA’s Artemis program has targeted the south pole for its first crewed lunar landing sometime in the second half of this decade. China is aiming for the same region for its own crewed landing around 2030. But boots on the moon are for later. For now, Chandrayaan-3 will get to work, using its suite of on-board instruments and its little six-wheeled rover to study a region of the moon that future explorers hope to call home.


--- [Chandrayaan-1_Science] ---
Chandrayaan-1 Home /Activities/ Science /Chandrayaan-1_Science Chandrayaan-1, India's first mission to Moon, was launched successfully on October 22, 2008 from SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota. The spacecraft orbited around the Moon at a height of 100 km from the lunar surface and provided chemical, mineralogical and photo-geologic mapping of the Moon. The spacecraft carried a total of 11 scientific instruments developed in India and other countries. After completion of the major mission objectives, the orbit was raised to 200 km in May 2009. The satellite made more than 3400 orbits around the moon in its life time. The mission was concluded after the communication with the spacecraft was lost on August 29, 2009. The payloads onboard Chandrayaan-1 are, The objective of HySI is to obtain spectroscopic data for mineralogical mapping of the lunar surface. The data from this instrument helped in improving the available information on mineral composition of the surface of Moon. Also, the study of data in deep crater regions/central peaks, which represents lower crust or upper mantle material, may help in understanding the mineralogical composition of Moon’s interior. The uniqueness of the HySI was in its capability of mapping the lunar surface in 64 contiguous bands in the VNIR, the spectral range of 0.4-0.95 µm region with a spectral resolution of better than 15 nm and spatial resolution of 80 m, with swath coverage of 20 km. HySI collected the Sun’s reflected light from the Moon’s surface through a tele-centric refractive optics and focus on to an APS area detector for this purpose. The dispersion was achieved by using a wedge filter so as to reduce the weight and compactness of the system compared to using a prism / grating. The wedge filter was an interference filter with varying thickness along one dimension so that the transmitted spectral range varies in that direction. The wedge filter was placed in close proximity to an area detector. Thus, different pixels in a row of the detector received irradiance from the same spectral region but different spatial regions in the across track direction. In the column direction of the detector, different rows received irradiance of different spectral as well as spatial regions in the along track direction. The full spectrum of a target was obtained by acquiring image data in push broom mode, as the satellite moves along the column direction of the detector. An Active Pixel Sensor (APS) area array detector with built-in digitizer mapped the spectral bands. The payload mass was 2.5 kg and its size is 275 mm x 255 mm x 205 mm.HySI payload is developed by SAC, ISRO By accurately measuring the roundtrip travel time of the laser pulse, highly accurate range/spot elevation measurements can be made. LLRI consisted of a 10 mJ Nd:YAG laser with 1064 nm wave source operating at 10 Hz pulse repetition mode. The reflected laser pulse from the lunar surface is collected by a 200 mm Ritchey-Chrétien Optical receiver and focused on to a Silicon Avalanche Photodetector. The output of the detector was amplified and threshold detected for generating range information to an accuracy < 5m. ihFour constant fraction discriminators provided the slope information in addition to range information. The different modes of operation of LLRI and the range computations from the detector output were controlled and computed by a FPGA based electronics. The processed outputs of LLRI was used for generating high accuracy lunar topography. The payload mass was 11.37 kg with base plate.LLRI payload is developed by LEOS, ISRO. HEX covers the hard X-ray region from 30 keV to 270 keV. The experiment is designed primarily to study the emission of low energy (30-270 keV) natural gamma-rays from the lunar surface due to 238U and 232Th and their decay chain nuclides. The geometric detector area of 144 cm2 was realized by nine Cadmium Zinc Telluride (CZT) arrays, each 4 cm x 4 cm (5 mm thick), composed of 256 (16x16) pixels (size: 2.5 mm x 2.5 mm). Each CZT array was readout using two closely mounted Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), which provided self-triggering capability. The detector was biased at the cathode with –550 V and the electronic charge signals were collected at the anode. A Cesium Iodide (CsI (Tl)) scintillator crystal coupled to photomultiplier tubes (PMT), was used as the anticoincidence system (ACS). A specially designed collimator provided a field of view (FOV) of 33 km X 33 km at the lunar surface from a 100 km orbit. The spatial resolution of HEX was 33 km and the mass was 14.4 kg. The impact probe of 35 kg mass was attached at the top deck of the main orbiter and released during the final 100 km x 100 km orbit at a predetermined time to impact at a pre-selected location. During the descent phase, it was spin-stabilized. The total flying time from release to impact on Moon was around 25 minutes. The primary objective was to demonstrate the technologies required for landing the probe at a desired location on the Moon and to qualify some of the technologies related to future soft landing missions. such as Ca, Ti and Fe on the surface of the Moon.The instrument utilised technologically innovative Swept Charge Device (SCD) X-ray sensors, which were mounted behind low profile gold/copper collimators and aluminium/polycarbonate thin film filters. The system had the virtue of providing superior X-ray detection, spectroscopic and spatial measurement capabilities, while also operating at near room temperature. A deployable proton shield protected the SCDs during passages through the Earth’s radiation belts, and from major particle events in the lunar orbit. In order to record the incident solar X-ray flux at the Moon, which was needed to derive absolute lunar elemental surface abundances, C1XS also included an X-ray Solar Monitor. With its wide field-of-view of ± 52 degrees, XSM provides observation of the solar X-ray spectrum from 1-20 keV with good energy resolution (< 250 keV[at]5[dot]9 keV) and fast spectral sampling at 16 s intervals. The total mass of C1XS and XSM was 5.2 kg The C1XS instrument is primarily based on the D-CIXS instrument on the ESA SMART-1 mission. Chandrayaan-1 X-ray Spectrometer (C1XS) is realised primarily through ESA funds with partial support from ISRO. The hardware has been developed at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK in collaboration with the ISRO Satellite Centre, Bangalore and exhibits significant improvements over the instrument flown on SMART-1. SIR-2 was a grating NIR point spectrometer working in the 0.93-2.4 microns wavelength range with 6 nm spectral resolution. It collected the Sun’s light reflected by the Moon with the help of a main and a secondary mirror. This light is fed through an optical fiber to the instrument’s sensor head, where it was reflected off a dispersion grating. The dispersed light reaches a detector, which consisting of a row of photosensitive pixels that measured the intensity as a function of wavelength and produces an electronic signal, which is read out and processed by the experiment’s electronics.The mass of the instrument was 3.3 kg and the instrument unit dimension is 260 mm x 171 mm x 143 mm. SIR-2 is developed by the Max-Planck-Institute for Solar System Science, through the Max-Planck Society, Germany and ESA. The SARA instrument consisted of neutral atom sensor CENA (Chandrayaan-1 Energetic Neutrals Analyzer), solar wind monitor SWIM and DPU (Data Processing Unit). CENA and SWIM interface with DPU, which in turn interfaces with the spacecraft. The masses of CENA, SWIM and DPU are 2 kg, 0.5 kg and 2 kg respectively, totaling the SARA mass as 4.5 kg.SARA is realised through ESA, in collaboration with Swedish Institute of Space Physics, Sweden and Space Physics Laboratory, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, ISRO. The Data Processing Unit of this payload/ experiment is designed and developed by ISRO, while Swedish Institute of Space Physics develops the payload. The objective of Mini-SAR was to detect water ice in the permanently shadowed regions on the Lunar poles, upto a depth of a few meters.An onboard SAR at suitable incidence would allow viewing of all permanently shadowed areas on the Moon, regardless of whether sunlight is available or the angle is not satisfactory. The radar would observe these areas at incidence angle near 45 degrees, recording echoes in both orthogonal senses of received polarization, allowing ice to be optimally distinguished from dry lunar surface.The Mini-SAR radar system operated as an altimeter/scatterometer, radiometer, and as a synthetic aperture radar imager. The Mini-SAR system transmitted Right Circular Polarization (RCP) and received, both Left Circular polarization (LCP) and RCP. In scatterometer mode, the system measured the RCP and LCP response in the altimetry footprint, along the nadir ground track. In radiometer mode, the system measured the surface RF emissivity, allowing determination of the near normal incidence Fresnel reflectivity. Meter-scale surface roughness and circular polarization ratio (CPR) wre determined for this footprint. This allowed the characterization of the radar and physical properties of the lunar surface (e.g., dielectric constant, porosity) for a network of points. When directed off nadir, the radar system will image a swath parallel to the orbital track by delay/Doppler methods (SAR mode) in both RCP and LCP.The synthetic aperture radar system worked at a frequency 2.38 GHz, with a resolution of 75 m per pixel from 100 km orbit and its mass was 8.77 kg.Miniature Synthetic Aperture Radar (MiniSAR) is from Applied Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University and Naval Air Warfare Centre, USA through NASA. The primary Science goal of M3 was to characterize and map lunar surface mineralogy in the context of lunar geologic evolution. This translates into several sub-topics relating to understanding the highland crust, basaltic volcanism, impact craters, and potential volatiles. The primary exploration goal was to assess and map lunar mineral resources at high spatial resolution to support planning for future, targeted missions.The M3 scientific instrument was a high throughput pushbroom imaging spectrometer, operating in 0.7 to 3.0 µm range. It measures solar reflected energy, using a two-dimensional HgCdTe detector array. The spectral range 0.7 to 2.6 µm captures the absorption bands for the most important lunar minerals. In addition, the spectral range 2.5 to 3.0 µm is critical for detection of possible volatiles near the lunar poles. The presence of small amounts of OH or H2O can be unambiguously identified from fundamental absorptions that occur near 3000 nm. M3 measurements are obtained for 640 cross track spatial elements and 261 spectral elements. This translates to 70 m/pixel spatial resolution and 10 nm spectral resolution (continuous) from a nominal 100 km polar orbit for Chandrayaan-1. The M3 FOV is 40 km in order to allow contiguous orbit-to-orbit measurements at the equator that will minimize lighting condition variations.Moon Mineralogy Mapper (M3) payload is from Brown University and Jet Propulsion Laboratory, USA through NASA RADOM aimed to qualitatively and quantitatively characterise the radiation environment in near lunar space, in terms of particle flux, dose rate and deposited energy spectrum.The specific objectives are to Radiation exposure of crew members on future manned space flight had been recognised as an important factor for the planning and designing of such missions. Indeed, the effects of ionising radiation on crew health, performance and life expectancy are a limitation to the duration of man’s sojourn in space. Predicting the effects of radiation on humans during a long-duration space mission requires i) accurate knowledge and modelling of the space radiation environment, ii) calculation of primary and secondary particle transport through shielding materials and through the human body, and iii) assessment of the biological effects of the dose.The general purpose of RADOM is to study the radiation hazards during the Moon exploration. Data obtained will be used for the evaluation of radiation environment and radiation shielding requirements for future manned lunar missions.RADOM was a miniature spectrometer-dosimeter containing one semiconductor detector of 0.3 mm thickness, one charge-sensitive preamplifier and two micro controllers. The detector weighs 139.8 mg. Pulse analysis technique is used for obtaining the deposited energy spectrum, which is further converted to the deposited dose and flux in the silicon detector. The exposure time for one spectrum is fixed at 30 s. The RADOM spectrometer measured the spectrum of the deposited energy from primary and secondary particles in 256 channels. RADOM mass was 160 g.RADOM is from Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
