=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kristen Nygaard - Wikipedia]
Kristen Nygaard (27 August 1926 - 10 August 2002) was a Norwegian computer scientist, programming language pioneer, and politician. Internationally, Nygaard is acknowledged as the co-inventor of object-oriented programming and the programming language Simula with Ole-Johan Dahl in the 1960s.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kristen_Nygaard

[Kristen Nygaard (1926 - 2002) - Biography - MacTutor History ...]
Aug 10, 2002 · For example he was awarded the Norbert Wiener Prize in October 1990 from the American Association of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility. Computerworld presented him with a prize in 1992 for:-
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Nygaard/

[Awards and Honors - Department of Informatics]
Dec 5, 2011 · Awards: 1990 - Awarded Norbert Wiener Prize from Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility 1999 - Rosing Honorary Prize awarded by the Norwegian Data Association 2000 - Commander of the Order of Saint Olav by the King of Norway 2001 - A. M. Turing Award by ACM 2002 - IEEE John von Neumann Medal Honors: 1992, Computerworld prize for "... having made Norway known internationally in the ...
URL: https://www.mn.uio.no/ifi/english/about/kristen-nygaard/awards/

[Kristen Nygaard - Wikipedia]
In October 1990, Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility awarded him its Norbert Wiener Award for Social and Professional Responsibility. In 1999, he became - together with Dahl - the first to receive the Rosing Prize.
URL: https://static.hlt.bme.hu/semantics/external/pages/John_McCarthy/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kristen_Nygaard.html

[Kristen Nygaard - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In October 1990, Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility awarded him its Norbert Wiener Prize for responsibility in social and professional work. In 1999, he became — together with Dahl — the first to receive the Rosing Prize. This new prize is awarded by the Norwegian Data Association for exceptional professional achievements.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/44962


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kristen Nygaard - Wikipedia] ---
Kristen Nygaard (27 August 1926 – 10 August 2002) was a Norwegian computer scientist, programming language pioneer, and politician. Internationally, Nygaard is acknowledged as the co-inventor of object-oriented programming and the programming language Simula with Ole-Johan Dahl in the 1960s. Nygaard and Dahl received the 2001 A. M. Turing Award for their contribution to computer science.


--- [Kristen Nygaard (1926 - 2002) - Biography - MacTutor History ...] ---
Kristen Nygaard Quick Info Oslo, Norway Oslo, Norway Biography Kristen Nygaard's father, William Martin Nygaard, was born in Kristiania (called Christiania from 1624 to 1878 and then Oslo after 1924) on 14 October 1893. William Nygaard taught at a high school in Voss, was a literary consultant and instructor at the National Theatre in Bergen, then was programme secretary for Norwegian National Broadcasting. He married Dina Serine Aasen, a schoolteacher, on 25 March 1926 in Oslo. Dina (born 28 November 1906 in Nedre Eiker) was the daughter of the farmer Haakon Aasen and his wife Anna Idsoe. Kristen was the oldest of his parents' four children who were all born in Oslo, the others being Haakon Aasen Nygaard (born 29 March 1931), Svein Sophus Nygaard (born 19 June 1935) and Sonja Nygaard (born 18 April 1945).Kristen attended Fagerborg high school, Pilestredet, Oslo. Of course these were difficult years due to World War II, and he later recounted many war-time stories from this period. At first the country declared itself neutral. However, the Germans invaded Norway on 9 April 1940, bombs were dropped in the Oslo area, and the Norwegian authorities fled from the city. Resistance took place until 10 June 1940 when Norway surrendered and the Germans took control. Teachers were required to sign a declaration of loyalty to the Nazis and promise they would teach Nazi ideology. The teachers resisted the Nazi moves. Teaching stopped but restarted in the autumn of 1940. During 1942 there were mass arrests of teachers but schools continued to operate. Nygaard graduated from Fagerborg high school in 1945. He then studied science at the University of Oslo where his main interest was first in astronomy, and later in applied mathematics. In 1948 he took up a full-time appointment with the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment. He writes that he [3]:- .... started his conscript service at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment in 1948 as assistant to Jan V Garwick - the father of computer science in Norway. Their first main task was to carry out resonance absorption calculations related to the construction of Norway's first nuclear reactor. After extensive work had been invested in a traditional numerical approach, Monte Carlo simulation methods (by "hand") were successfully introduced instead in 1949-1950. [I] headed the "computing office" until mid 1952, and then became a full time operational research worker.Nygaard married Johanna Ur in Oslo on 27 January 1951. Johanna, who was born in Ardal in Ryfylke on 13 December 1924, was the daughter of the farmer Bertel Ur and his wife Otelie Lunde. Kristen and Johanna Nygaard had three children including twins, a son and daughter born on 16 May 1951 in Oslo. We have seen in the quote above that Nygaard was using Monte Carlo methods in his work for the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment. In 1952 he published On the solution of integral equations by Monte-Carlo methods as a Norwegian Defence Research Establishment Report. Four years later he was awarded a Master's Degree by the University of Oslo for a thesis Theoretical Aspects of Monte Carlo Methods. In 1959 he was cofounder of the Norwegian Operational Research Society and became its first chairman, holding the position until 1964. In 1960 he changed his employment [3]:- In May 1960 [I] left the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment to build up the Norwegian Computing Centre as a research institute in computer science, operational research and related fields. Many of the civilian tasks turned out to present the same kind of methodological problems: the necessity of using simulation, the need of concepts and a language for system description, lack of tools for generating simulation programs. This experience was the direct stimulus for the ideas which in 1961 initiated the SIMULA development.SIMULA, which Nygaard refers to in this quotation, is the object-oriented programming language of which he was the co-inventor. It is the achievement for which he is today most famed. He wrote a letter on 5 January 1961 to the operational research expert Charles Salzmann explaining where his thinking was on the development of the language [3]:- The status of the Simulation Language (Monte Carlo Compiler) is that I have rather clear ideas on how to describe queueing systems, and have developed concepts which I feel allow a reasonably easy description of large classes of situations. I believe that these results have some interest even isolated from the compiler, since the presently used ways of describing such systems are not very satisfactory. I hope that later developments, for which I have a number of ideas, will include e.g. stochastic inventory situations amongst the situations which may be described by the language. The work on the compiler could not start before the language was fairly well developed, but this stage seems now to have been reached. The expert programmer who is interested in this part of the job will meet me tomorrow. He has been rather optimistic during our previous meetings.The 'expert programmer' that Nygaard referred to in this letter was Ole-Johan Dahl, now recognised as the other co-inventor of SIMULA. Nygaard rose rapidly in the Norwegian Computing Centre, becoming its Director of Research in 1962. In 1975 he was appointed to a professorship at Aarhus University, Denmark. One year later he returned to Norway when he was appointed as a professor at Oslo University. The appointment was part-time until 1984 when it became a full-time appointment. He remained in this post until he retired in 1996, although he did spend time at other institutions such as Stanford University, Palo Alto, USA in 1987. Also while in the United States in 1987 he was a Visiting Scientist at Xerox PARC in Palo Alto, and a consultant at Apple Computer's Advanced Technology Group where he also gave lectures. If we ended this biography here we would get a totally false impression of Nygaard for he would simply come across as a brilliant computer scientist and mathematician. Certainly he was exactly that, but much more [2]:- In the 1970's, Nygaard's research interests increasingly turned to the impact of technology on the labour movement, and he became involved in other political, social and environmental issues. He was the first chairman of the environment protection committee of the Norwegian Association for the Protection of Nature. He was also the Norwegian representative for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's activities on information technology. He also helped run an experimental program to create humane living conditions for alcoholics. In the mid 1960's he became a member of the National Executive Committee of the Norwegian party Venstre, a left-wing non-socialist party, and chairman of that party's strategy committee. In 1988 he became chairman of a group that successfully opposed Norway's membership in the European Union.Even after Norway voted "no" to the European Union in a referendum on 28 November 1994, Nygaard did not give up opposing the European Union. He worked hard during 1996 to establish The European Anti-Maastricht Movement which was to bring together those inside and outside the European Union opposed to the Maastricht Treaty and Economic and Monetary Union. He received many honours for his remarkable contributions with the introduction of SIMULA. For example he was awarded the Norbert Wiener Prize in October 1990 from the American Association of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility. Computerworld presented him with a prize in 1992 for:- ... having made Norway known internationally in the information technology field.In 1999 the co-inventors of SIMULA, Nygaard and Dahl, were awarded the Rosing Prize by the Norwegian Data Association:- ... for exceptional professional achievements.The Object Management Group awarded Nygaard an Honorary Fellowship for:- ... his originating of object technology concepts.Nygaard and Dahl received the A M Turing Award for 2001 by the Association for Computing Machinery:- For ideas fundamental to the emergence of object oriented programming, through their design of the programming languages Simula I and Simula 67.The Association for Computing Machinery gave this appreciation of the contributions of Nygaard and Dahl:- Their work has led to a fundamental change in how software systems are designed and programmed, resulting in reusable, reliable, scalable applications that have streamlined the process of writing software code and facilitated software programming. Current object-oriented programming languages include C++ and Java. They are both widely used in programming a wide range of applications from large-scale distributed systems to small, personal applications, including personal computers, home entertainment devices, and standalone arcade applications. The A M Turing Award carries a $25,000 prize. The discrete event simulation language (Simula I) and general programming language (Simula 67) developed by Dahl and Nygaard at the Norwegian Computing Centre in Oslo, Norway in the 1960's, led the way for software programmers to build software systems in layers of abstraction. With this approach, each layer of a system relies on a platform implemented by the lower layers. Their approach has resulted in programming that is both accessible and available to the entire research community.Also in 2001 the two co-inventors received the John von Neumann Medal, awarded by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers:- For the introduction of the concepts underlying object-oriented programming through the design and implementation of SIMULA 67.He also received honorary doctorates from Lund University, Sweden (June 1990) and Aalborg University, Denmark (June 1991). In August 2000, he was made a Commander of the Order of Saint Olav by King Harald V of Norway. Nygaard died after suffering a heart attack while spending the weekend at his family's holiday home at Tjome. References (show) - Kristen Nygaard, computer programming language pioneer and politician, dies, Boston Globe (11 August, 2002). - J Markoff, Kristen Nygaard, Who Built Framework for Computer Languages, Dies at 75, New York Times (14 August 2002). - K Nygaard and O-J Dahl, The development of the SIMULA languages, History of Programming Languages, Association for Computing Machinery (Academic Press, 1981), 439-480. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Kristen Nygaard: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Kristen Nygaard Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update December 2008 Last Update December 2008


--- [Awards and Honors - Department of Informatics] ---
Awards: - 1990 - Awarded Norbert Wiener Prize from Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility - 1999 - Rosing Honorary Prize awarded by the Norwegian Data Association - 2000 - Commander of the Order of Saint Olav by the King of Norway - 2001 - A. M. Turing Award by ACM - 2002 - IEEE John von Neumann Medal Honors: - 1992, Computerworld prize for "... having made Norway known internationally in the information technology field." - 1990, Received honorary doctorate from the University of Lund, Sweden - 1991, Received honorary doctorate from Aalborg University, Denmark - 2000, Honorary Fellowship by the Object Management Group


--- [Kristen Nygaard - Wikipedia] ---
Kristen Nygaard Kristen Nygaard | | |---|---| | Born | | | Died | 10 August 2002 Oslo,[1] Norway | (aged 75) | Known for | Object-oriented programming Simula | | Awards | Turing Award (2001) IEEE John von Neumann Medal (2002) Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav Norbert Wiener Award for Social and Professional Responsibility | | Scientific career | | | Fields | Computer Science | | Institutions | Norwegian Defense Research Establishment Norwegian Operational Research Society Norwegian Computing Center Aarhus University University of Oslo | Kristen Nygaard (27 August 1926 – 10 August 2002) was a Norwegian computer scientist, programming language pioneer and politician. He was born in Oslo and died of a heart attack in 2002. Contents Object-oriented programming[edit] Internationally Nygaard is acknowledged as the co-inventor of object-oriented programming and the programming language Simula with Ole-Johan Dahl in the 1960s. Nygaard got his master's degree in mathematics at the University of Oslo in 1956. His thesis on abstract probability theory was entitled "Theoretical Aspects of Monte Carlo Methods". Nygaard worked full-time at the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment from 1948 to 1960 – in computing and programming (1948–1954) and operational research (1952–1960). From 1957 to 1960 he was head of the first operations research groups in the Norwegian defense establishment. He was cofounder and first chairman of the Norwegian Operational Research Society (1959–1964). In 1960 he was hired by the Norwegian Computing Center (NCC), responsible for building up the NCC as a research institute in the 1960s, becoming its Director of Research in 1962. Together with Ole-Johan Dahl he developed SIMULA I (1961–1965) and SIMULA-67 – the first object-oriented programming languages, introducing core concepts of object-oriented programming languages: objects, classes, inheritance, virtual quantities and multi-threaded (quasi-parallel) program execution. In 2004, AITO established an annual prize in the name of Ole-Johan Dahl and Kristen Nygaard to honor their pioneering work on object-orientation. The AITO Dahl-Nygaard prize is awarded annually to two individuals that have made significant technical contributions to the field of Object-Orientation. The work should be in the spirit of the pioneer conceptual and/or implementation work of Dahl and Nygaard which shaped our present view of object-oriented programming. The prize is presented each year at the ECOOP conference. The prize consists of two awards given to a senior and to a junior professional. He conducted research for Norwegian trade unions on planning, control, and data processing, all evaluated in light of the objectives of organised labour ([1971–1973), working together with Olav Terje Bergo). His other research and development work included the social impact of computer technology and the general system description language DELTA (1973–1975), working with Erik Holbaek-Hanssen and Petter Haandlykken). Nygaard was a professor in Aarhus, Denmark (1975–1976) and then became professor emeritus in Oslo (part-time from 1977, full-time 1984–1996). His work in Aarhus and Oslo included research and education in system development and the social impact of computer technology, and became the foundation of the Scandinavian School in System Development, which is closely linked to the field of participatory design. In June 1990, he received an honorary doctorate from Lund University, Sweden, and in June 1991 he became the first individual to be given an honorary doctorate by Aalborg University, Denmark. He became a member of the Norwegian Academy of Sciences. In October 1990, Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility awarded him its Norbert Wiener Award for Social and Professional Responsibility. In 1999, he became – together with Dahl – the first to receive the Rosing Prize. This new prize is awarded by the Norwegian Data Association for exceptional professional achievements. In June 2000, he was awarded an Honorary Fellowship for "his originating of object technology concepts" by the Object Management Group, the International Organization for Standardization within object-orientation. In November 2001, he and Dahl were awarded the IEEE John von Neumann Medal by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers "For the introduction of the concepts underlying object-oriented programming through the design and implementation of SIMULA 67".[2] In February 2002, he was given, once more together with Ole-Johan Dahl, the 2001 A. M. Turing Award by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), with the citation: "For ideas fundamental to the emergence of object oriented programming, through their design of the programming languages Simula I and Simula 67." In August 2000, he was made Commander of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav by the King of Norway. Beginning in 1976, he was engaged in the development and (since 1986) the implementation of the general object-oriented programming language BETA (together with Bent Bruun Kristensen, Ole Lehrmann Madsen and Birger Moeller-Pedersen). The language is now available on a wide range of computers. Nygaard was in the first half of the 1980s chairman of the steering committee of the Scandinavian research program SYDPOL (System Development and Profession Oriented Languages), coordinating research and supporting working groups in system development, language research and artificial intelligence. Also in the 1980s, he was chairman of the steering committee for the Cost-13 (European Common Market Commission)-financed research project on the extensions of profession-oriented languages necessary when artificial intelligence and information technology are becoming part of professional work. Nygaard's research from 1995-1999 was related to distributed systems. He was the leader of General Object-Oriented Distributed Systems (GOODS), a three-year Norwegian Research Council-supported project starting in 1997, aiming at enriching object-oriented languages and system development methods by new basic concepts that make it possible to describe the relation between layered and/or distributed programs and the computer hardware and people carrying out these programs. The GOODS team also included Haakon Bryhni, Dag Sjøberg and Ole Smørdal. Nygaard's final research interests were studies of the introductory teaching of programming, and the creation of a process-oriented conceptual platform for informatics. These subjects are to be developed in a new research project called COOL (Comprehensive Object-Oriented Learning) together with a number of international test sites. He was giving lectures and courses on these subjects in Norway and elsewhere. In November 1999 he became chair of an advisory committee on Broadband Communication for the Norwegian Department for Municipal and Regional Affairs. He held a part-time position at Simula Research Laboratory from 2001, when the research institute was opened. Other activities[edit] In 1984 and 1985, Nygaard was chairman of the Informatics Committee of the University of Oslo, and active in the design of the university's plan for developing research, education and computing and communication facilities at all faculties of the university. He was the first chairman of the Environment Protection Committee of the Norwegian Association for the Protection of Nature. He was for 10 years (in the 1970s) Norwegian representative in the OECD activities on information technology. He has been a member of the Research Committee of the Norwegian Federation of Trade Unions, and cooperated with unions in a number of countries. He was for several years engaged in running an experimental social institution trying new ways of creating humane living conditions for socially outcast alcoholics. Nygaard was active in Norwegian politics. In the mid and late 1960s he was a member of the National Executive Committee of the Norwegian Liberal Party, and chair of that party's Strategy Committee.[3] He was a minor ballot candidate in the 1949 parliamentary election.[4] During the intense political fight before the 1972 referendum on whether Norway should become a member of the European Common Market (later the European Union), he worked as coordinator for the many youth organisations that worked against membership. From 1971 to 2001, Nygaard was a member of the Labour Party, and he was a member of committees on research policies in that party. In November 1988, he became chair of the Information Committee on Norway and the EEC, in August 1990 reorganized as Nei til EF an organization disseminating information about Norway's relation to the Common Market, and coordinating the efforts to keep Norway outside. (No to European Union membership for Norway, literally "No to the EU"). In 1993, when the EEC ratified the Maastricht treaty and became the European Union the organization changed its name to reflect this. Nei til EF became the largest political organization in Norway (145,000 members in 1994, from a population of 4 million). Nygaard worked with Anne Enger Lahnstein, leader of the anti-EU Centre Party, in this campaign. In the referendum on November 28, 1994, "Nei til EU" succeeded: 52.2% of the electorate voted "No", and the voter participation was the highest ever in Norway's history – 88.8%. The strategy of the campaign, insisted by Nygaard, was that it had to be for something as well as against, i.e. the Scandinavian welfare state Nygaard considered threatened by the Maastricht Agreement. He resigned as chair in 1995, and was later the chair of the organization's strategy committee and member of its Council. In 1996 and 1997, Nygaard was the coordinator of the efforts to establish The European Anti-Maastricht Movement (TEAM), a cooperative network between national organizations opposing the Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union (EMU) and the Maastricht Treaty in European countries within and outside the EU. TEAM was successfully started March 3, 1997. Family[edit] Kristen Nygaard married Johanna Nygaard in 1951. Johanna Nygaard worked at the Norwegian Agency for Aid to Developing Countries. She specialized for a number of years in recruiting and giving administrative support to specialists working in East Africa. Johanna and Kristen Nygaard had three children and seven grandchildren. See also[edit] References[edit] - ^ MacTutor History of Mathematics - ^ in_memoriam_kristen - ^ Nygaard, Kristen (1996), ""Those Were the Days"? Or "Heroic Times Are Here Again"?", Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems, 8 (2): 91–108. See in particular p. 97. - ^ "Norges Offisielle Statistikk. XI. 13. Stortingsvalget 1949" (PDF) (in Norwegian). Statistics Norway. Sources[edit] - Curriculum Vitae for Kristen Nygaard at the Wayback Machine (archived October 16, 2002) (15 February 2002, Long Version) External links[edit] | Wikiquote has quotations related to: Kristen Nygaard | | New creation | Leader of Nei til EU 1990–1995 | Succeeded by Stein Ørnhøi |


--- [Kristen Nygaard - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Kristen Nygaard Infobox_Scientist name = Kristen Nygaard image_width = 140px caption = birth_date = birth date|1926|8|27|mf=y birth_place = death_date = death date and age|2002|8|10|1926|8|27|mf=y death_place = residence = citizenship = nationality = ethnicity = field =Computer Science Mathematics work_institution =Norwegian Defense Research Establishment Norwegian Operational Research Society Norwegian Computing Center alma_mater = doctoral_advisor = doctoral_students = known_for =Object-oriented programming Simula author_abbreviation_bot = author_abbreviation_zoo = prizes =Turing Award religion = footnotes =Kristen Nygaard ( August 27 ,1926 –August 10 ,2002 ) was a Norwegianmathematician ,computer programming language pioneer andpolitician . He was born inOslo and died of a heart attack in 2002.Object-oriented programming Internationally he is acknowledged as the co-inventor of object-oriented programming and theprogramming language Simula withOle-Johan Dahl in the 1960s. Object-oriented programming enables software developers to manage the complexity of computer systems.Nygaard got his master's degree inmathematics at theUniversity of Oslo in 1956. His thesis on abstract probability theory was entitled "Theoretical Aspects of Monte Carlo Methods".Nygaard worked full time at the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment from 1948 to 1960 - incomputing andprogramming (1948–1954) andoperational research (1952–1960).From 1957 to 1960 he was head of the first operations research groups in the Norwegian defense establishment. He was cofounder and first chairman of theNorwegian Operational Research Society (1959–1964). In 1960 he was hired by theNorwegian Computing Center (NCC), responsible for building up the NCC as a research institute in the 1960s, becoming its Director of Research in 1962.Together with Ole-Johan Dahl he developed SIMULA I (1961–1965) and SIMULA-67 - the firstobject-oriented programming languages, introducing the concepts upon which all laterobject-oriented programming languages are built: objects, classes,inheritance ,virtual quantities andmulti-threaded (quasi-parallel ) program execution.He did research for Norwegian trade unions on planning, control, and data processing, all evaluated in light of the objectives oforganised labour ( [1971–1973), working together withOlav Terje Bergo ). His other research and development work included the social impact of computer technology and thegeneral system description language DELTA (1973–1975), working withErik Holbaek-Hanssen andPetter Haandlykken ).Nygaard was a professor in Aarhus, Denmark (1975–1976) and then became professor emeritus inOslo (part-time from 1977, full time 1984–1996). His work inAarhus andOslo included research and education insystem development and the social impact of computer technology, and became the foundation of theScandinavian School in System Development , which is closely linked to the field ofparticipatory design .In June 1990, he received an honorary doctorate from Lund University ,Sweden , and in June 1991 he became the first person to be given an honorary doctorate by Aalborg University,Denmark . He became a member of theNorwegian Academy of Science s.In October 1990, Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility awarded him itsNorbert Wiener Prize for responsibility in social and professional work.In 1999, he became — together with Dahl — the first to receive the Rosing Prize . This new prize is awarded by theNorwegian Data Association for exceptional professional achievements.In June 2000, he was awarded an Honorary Fellowship for "his originating of object technology concepts" by theObject Management Group , theInternational Organization for Standardization within object-orientation.In November 2001, he and Dahl were awarded the IEEE John von Neumann Medal by theInstitute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers "For the introduction of the concepts underlyingobject-oriented programming through the design and implementation of SIMULA 67".In February 2002, he was given, once more together with Ole-Johan Dahl, the 2001 A. M. Turing Award by theAssociation for Computing Machinery (ACM), with the citation: "For ideas fundamental to the emergence ofobject oriented programming , through their design of theprogramming language s Simula I and Simula 67."In August 2000, he was made Commander of the Order of Saint Olav by the King of Norway.Beginning in 1976, he was engaged in the development and (since 1986) the implementation of the general object-oriented programming language BETA (together with Bent Bruun Kristensen ,Ole Lehrmann Madsen andBirger Moeller-Pedersen ). The language is now available on a wide range of computers.Nygaard was in the first half of the 1980s chairman of the steering committee of the Scandinavia n research programSYDPOL (System Development and Profession Oriented Languages ),coordinating research and supporting working groups insystem development ,language research andartificial intelligence . Also in the 1980s, he was chairman of the steering committee for theCost-13 (European Common Market Commission )-financed research project on the extensions of profession-oriented languages necessary when artificial intelligence and information technology are becoming part of professional work.Nygaard's research from 1995-1999 was related to distributed systems . He was the leader ofGeneral Object-Oriented Distributed Systems (GOODS), a three-yearNorwegian Research Council -supported project starting in 1997, aiming at enriching object-oriented languages andsystem development methods by new basic concepts that make it possible to describe the relation between layered and/ordistributed programs and thehardware and people carrying out these programs.The GOODS team also included Haakon Bryhni ,Dag Sjøberg andOle Smørdal .Nygaard's final research interests were studies of the introductory teaching of programming, andthe creation of a process-oriented conceptual platform forinformatics . These subjects are to be developed in a new research project called COOL (Comprehensive Object-Oriented Learning) togetherwith a number of international test sites. He was giving lectures and courses on these subjects in Norway and elsewhere. In November 1999 he became chair of an advisory committee onBroadband Communication for theNorwegian Department for Municipal and Regional Affairs . He held a part time position atSimula Research Laboratory from 2001, when the research institute was opened.Other activities In 1984 and 1985 Nygaard was chairman of the Informatics Committee of the University of Oslo , and active in the design of the university's plan for developing research, education and computing and communication facilities at all faculties of the university.He was the first chairman of the Environment Protection Committee of theNorwegian Association for the Protection of Nature .He was for 10 years (in the 1970s) Norwegian representative in the OECD activities on information technology. He has been a member of the Research Committee of theNorwegian Federation of Trade Unions , and cooperated with unions in a number of countries.He was for several years engaged in running an experimental social institution trying new ways of creating humane living conditions for socially outcast alcoholics. Nygaard was active in Norwegian politics . In the mid and late 1960s he was a member of the National Executive Committee of the Norwegian liberal party "Venstre", and chair of that party's Strategy Committee. During the intense political fight before the 1972 referendum on whether Norway should become a member of theEuropean Common Market (later theEuropean Union ), he worked as coordinator for the many youth organisations that worked against membership.From 1971 to 2001 Nygaard was a member of the Labour Party, and he was a member of committees on research policies in that party. In November 1988, he became chair of the Information Committee on Norway and the EEC, in August 1990 reorganized as " Nei til EF " an organization disseminating information about Norway's relation to the Common Market, and coordinating the efforts to keep Norway outside. (No to European Union membership for Norway, literally "No to the EU"). In 1993 when the EEC ratified theMaastricht treaty and became theEuropean Union the organization changed its name to reflect this. "Nei til EF" became the largest political organization in Norway (145,000 members in 1994, from a population of 4 million). Nygaard worked withAnne Enger Lahnstein , leader of the anti-EU Centre Party, in this campaign. In the referendum onNovember 28 ,1994 , "Nei til EU" succeeded: 52.2% of the electorate voted "No", and thevoter participation was the highest ever in Norway's history - 88.8%. The strategy of the campaign, insisted by Nygaard, was that it had to be "for" something as well as against, i.e. the Scandinavian welfare state Nygaard considered threatened by the Maastricht Agreement.He resigned as chair in 1995, and was later the chair of the organization's strategy committee and member of its Council. In 1996 and 1997 Nygaard was the coordinator of the efforts to establish The European Anti-Maastricht Movement (TEAM), a cooperative network between national organizations opposing theEconomic and Monetary Union of the European Union (EMU) and theMaastricht Treaty in European countries within and outside theEU .TEAM was successfully startedMarch 3 ,1997 .Family Kristen Nygaard married Johanna Nygaard in 1951. Johanna Nygaard worked at the Norwegian Agency for Aid to Developing Countries. She specialized for a number of years in recruiting and giving administrative support to specialists working in East Africa .Johanna and Kristen Nygaard had three children and seven grandchildren. ource * [http://www.ifi.uio.no/~kristen/PRIVATDOK_MAPPE/PR_CV_KN.html Curriculum Vitae for Kristen Nygaard] ( 15 February 2002 , Long Version)External links * [http://www.ifi.uio.no/in_memoriam_kristen/ In Memoriam Kristen Nygaard] * [http://www.ifi.uio.no/~kristen/ Kristen Nygaard's homepage at Department of Informatics, University of Oslo]Persondata NAME= Nygaard, Kristen ALTERNATIVE NAMES= SHORT DESCRIPTION= Computer scientist, Mathematician DATE OF BIRTH=August 27 ,1926 PLACE OF BIRTH=Oslo ,Norway DATE OF DEATH=August 10 ,2002 PLACE OF DEATH= Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
