=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Naughty Dog - Wikipedia]
Neil Druckmann was promoted to co-president alongside Evan Wells on December 4, 2020; Alison Mori, formerly the director of operations, and Christian Gyrling, the former co-director of programming, were promoted to co-vice presidents in his place. [36]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naughty_Dog

[Neil Druckmann Becomes Co-President of Naughty Dog]
Dec 4, 2020 · The Last of Us Part II director Neil Druckmann has been promoted to co-president of Naughty Dog. Current president Evan Wells announced the news today on the company's blog. The promotion came during an all-studio meeting where director of operations Alison Mori and co-director of programming ...
URL: https://www.gameinformer.com/2020/12/04/neil-druckmann-becomes-co-president-of-naughty-dog

[Neil Druckmann will present former Naughty Dog partner Evan Wells with DICE’s biggest award | 108GAM]
Evan Wells is set to receive The Academy of Interactive Arts Sciences AIASs Hall of Fame Award at this years DICE summit. Neil Druckmann will present former Naughty Dog partner Evan Wells with DICEs biggest award 108. The Outer Worlds 2 introduces new villain th...
URL: https://108game.com/neil-druckmann-will-present-former-naughty-dog-partner-evan-wells-with-dice-s-biggest-award-92171.html

[Naughty Dog Has Promoted Neil Druckmann to Co-President]
Dec 5, 2020 · The Last of Us Creative Director, Neil Druckmann, has been promoted to Co-President at Naughty Dog. In a brief blog post, President Evan Wells applauded the studio’s development team and also ...
URL: https://www.playstationlifestyle.net/2020/12/05/naughty-dog-neil-druckmann-promotion/

[Neil Druckmann promoted to Naughty Dog Co-President]
Dec 7, 2020 · The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog has promoted long-time game director and Vice President Neil Druckman to Co-President of the company.
URL: https://checkpointgaming.net/news/2020/12/neil-druckmann-promoted-to-naughty-dog-co-president/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Naughty Dog - Wikipedia] ---
Naughty Dog, LLC (formerly JAM Software, Inc.) is an American first-party video game developer based in Santa Monica, California. Founded by Andy Gavin and Jason Rubin in 1984, the studio was acquired by Sony Computer Entertainment in 2001. Gavin and Rubin produced a sequence of progressively more successful games, including Rings of Power and Way of the Warrior in the early 1990s. The latter game prompted Universal Interactive Studios to sign the duo to a three-title contract and fund the expansion of the company.
After designer and producer Mark Cerny convinced Naughty Dog to create a character-based platform game that would use the 3D capabilities of the new systems, Naughty Dog created Crash Bandicoot for the PlayStation in 1996. Naughty Dog developed three Crash Bandicoot games over the next several years. After developing Crash Team Racing, the company began working on Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy for the PlayStation 2.
In 2004, Gavin and Rubin left the company to co-found a new Internet startup called Flektor. In addition to their inhouse game team, Naughty Dog is also home to the ICE Team, one of PlayStation Studios's central technology groups. The company's first PlayStation 3 game, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, was released in 2007, followed by several sequels and spin-off titles. This lasted until Naughty Dog announced a new intellectual property for the PlayStation 3, The Last of Us, which was in development by a secondary team at the studio and released to critical acclaim in 2013 which spawned a franchise. The Last of Us Part II was released for the PlayStation 4 in 2020 to similar acclaim. The studio is developing Intergalactic: The Heretic Prophet for the PlayStation 5.


--- [Neil Druckmann Becomes Co-President of Naughty Dog] ---
Neil Druckmann Becomes Co-President of Naughty Dog The Last of Us Part II director Neil Druckmann has been promoted to co-president of Naughty Dog. Current president Evan Wells announced the news today on the company's blog. The promotion came during an all-studio meeting where director of operations Alison Mori and co-director of programming Christian Gyrling were also promoted to vice presidents. Druckmann began his career as an intern at Naughty Dog in 2004. His first major credit was working as a programmer for Jak 3 and Jak X: Combat Racing before helping design the first two Uncharted games. His major claim to fame came as the writer and co-creative director for the critically acclaimed The Last of Us alongside Bruce Straley. The pair would later direct the well-received Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End, which Druckmann also co-wrote. Druckmann then led the development for The Last of Us Part II, helping write the story alongside Halley Gross. The sequel released in June to widespread acclaim (including a 10 out of 10 from Game Informer). Beyond games, Druckmann is also working with HBO to develop a TV series based on The Last of Us. The Last of Us Part II is currently in the running for Game of The Year at this year’s Game Awards. Check out our interview with Druckmann and Gross as they discuss the game’s ending and the online reactions to it. [Source: Naughty Dog]


--- [Neil Druckmann will present former Naughty Dog partner Evan Wells with DICE’s biggest award | 108GAM] ---
No content


--- [Naughty Dog Has Promoted Neil Druckmann to Co-President] ---
The Last of Us Creative Director, Neil Druckmann, has been promoted to Co-President at Naughty Dog. In a brief blog post, President Evan Wells applauded the studio’s development team and also announced two other promotions. Both Alison Mori and Christian Gyrling are now Vice Presidents – a position previously held by Druckmann for three years. Mori was serving as Director of Operations and Gyrling was Co-Director of Programming. The post reads: As we close out a year that has seen its challenges as we all live through a global pandemic, there have been bright moments too. One exciting moment for Naughty Dog was the long-anticipated release of The Last of Us Part II in June. Another moment comes today as we wanted to share some other terrific news about the studio. At an all-studio meeting today, we announced some well-deserved promotions: Neil Druckmann now joins me as Co-President of Naughty Dog, after serving almost three years as Vice President. In addition, we’re welcoming Alison Mori and Christian Gyrling as Vice Presidents of Naughty Dog. Prior to becoming Vice President, Alison served as our Director of Operations and Christian served as our Co-Director of Programming. We have such an incredible team at Naughty Dog and being able to work alongside each and every one of them is especially meaningful these days. I feel proud of the team when I’m able to recognize their accomplishments and contributions to the studio. Please join me in giving them all a big congratulations! Congratulations to Druckmann, Mori, and Gyrling!


--- [Neil Druckmann promoted to Naughty Dog Co-President] ---
Uncharted and The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog has announced that Neil Druckmann has been promoted to Co-President of the company. Druckmann has served as Vice President at Naughty Dog for almost three years. He also directed development for Uncharted 4 and The Last of Us franchise. Alison Mori and Christian Gyrling will be taking his place as the new Vice Presidents. “As we close out a year that has seen its challenges as we all live through a global pandemic, there have been bright moments too,” writes Naughty Dog President Evan Wells. “At an all-studio meeting today, we announced some well-deserved promotions: Neil Druckmann now joins me as Co-President of Naughty Dog, after serving almost three years as Vice President. We have such an incredible team at Naughty Dog and being able to work alongside each and every one of them is especially meaningful these days. I feel proud of the team when I’m able to recognize their accomplishments and contributions to the studio. Please join me in giving them all a big congratulations!” Oh… and I’ll still be directing and writing while helping to mentor the next wave of creators. ♥️ — Neil Druckmann (@Neil_Druckmann) December 5, 2020 Neil Druckmann has taken to Twitter to acknowledge the promotion to Naughty Dog Co-President. He assures fans that he will “still be directing and writing while helping to mentor the next wave of creators”. Naughty Dog has not confirmed its next project yet. Among potential next steps, there is apparently some kind of multiplayer mode for The Last of Us Part II still in the works. A remastered port of The Last of Us Part II for the PS5 would also make sense, and follow the first game by crossing two console generations. Druckmann is also serving as Executive Producer on the upcoming HBO The Last of Us television series alongside Chernobyl creator Craig Mazin. With the various successes that Naughty Dog has seen with projects overseen by Druckmann, it sounds like the company is in safe hands with his new role.
