=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[American Heart Association No-Fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy ...]
Dec 26, 2006 · Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way.
URL: https://www.amazon.com/American-Heart-Association-No-Fad-Diet/dp/0307347427

[American Heart Association No-Fad Diet by American Heart ...]
It’s time to leave behind the one-size-fits-all approach to dieting. Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way.
URL: https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/2955/american-heart-association-no-fad-diet-by-american-heart-association/

[Fad diet]
Banting is credited for writing the first diet book, which ... "Recommended Dietary Pattern to Achieve Adherence to the American Heart Association/American ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fad_diet

[American Heart Association No-Fad Diet, 2nd Edition: A Personal Plan ...]
American Heart Association No-Fad Diet, 2nd Edition: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight Loss. Seller: World of Books (was SecondSale), Montgomery, IL, U.S.A.
URL: https://www.abebooks.com/9780307407597/American-Heart-Association-No-Fad-Diet-0307407594/plp

[The No-fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight Loss ...]
Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way.
URL: https://books.google.com/books/about/The_No_fad_Diet.html?id=IzHZEGYBXHwC


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [American Heart Association No-Fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy ...] ---
Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet, or computer - no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera - scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Follow the author OK American Heart Association No-Fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight Loss Paperback – December 26, 2006 Purchase options and add-ons By now, you’ve heard of (and maybe tried) them all: the low-carb diet, the grapefruit diet, the miracle diet . . . the list goes on and on. Fad diets may promise a quick fix, but few deliver lasting results. If you’re like millions of other Americans, you’re still struggling to lose weight and get in shape—without harming your long-term health in the process. It’s time to leave behind the one-size-fits-all approach to dieting. Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way. After a simple assessment of your current habits, you choose the eating and exercise strategies that best fit your needs. You’ll learn how to set realistic goals, eat well to lose extra pounds safely, and add physical activity to keep the weight off for good. This book offers more than 190 delicious, all-new recipes, including Cream of Triple-Mushroom Soup, Tilapia Cham-pignon, Chicken Pot Pie, Pumpkin-Cranberry Pancakes, and Vanilla Soufflé with Brandy-Plum Sauce. You’ll also find two weeks of sample menus, guidelines for meal planning, useful tips on dining out and food shopping, and sound advice for staying on track to reach your target weight. What’s the only effective way to lose weight and keep it off? It’s simple: Calories in must be less than calories out. But since the factors that contribute to this not-so-magic formula are different for everyone, a one-size diet plan does not fit all. The No-Fad Diet includes: • Tips on turning negative thinking into positive rewards • Simple quizzes to find the approach that’s best for you • Diary pages to record and monitor your eating and activity habits • Strategies to reduce calories and increase your activity levels • Guidelines to help you prepare your own nutritious meals • More than 190 delicious and healthful recipes • Techniques to maintain your momentum The weight-loss strategies in this book are based on reliable scientific research and are backed by respected medical professionals. The American Heart Association has the information you can trust. Also available as a Random House Large Print Edition - Print length445 pages - LanguageEnglish - Publication dateDecember 26, 2006 - Dimensions6.12 x 1.05 x 9.25 inches - ISBN-100307347427 - ISBN-13978-0307347428 Frequently bought together What other items do customers buy after viewing this item? Customers also bought or read - The New American Heart Association Cookbook, Centennial EditionPaperbackINR1,894.46INR1,894.46INR 1,294.90 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - The Heart Healthy Cookbook for Two: 125 Perfectly Portioned Low Sodium, Low Fat RecipesPaperbackINR883.22INR883.22INR 1,076.63 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - The Mayo Clinic Diet, 3rd edition: Reshape your life with science-based habitsHardcoverINR1,482.78INR1,482.78INR 1,301.34 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - The Low Cholesterol Cookbook and Action Plan: 4 Weeks to Cut Cholesterol and Improve Heart HealthPaperbackINR780.99INR780.99INR 1,178.85 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Low Sodium Slow Cooker Cookbook: Over 100 Heart Healthy Recipes that Prep Fast and Cook SlowPaperbackINR827.04INR827.04INR 1,053.60 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - The Mediterranean Diet Weight Loss Solution: The 28-Day Kickstart Plan for Lasting Weight LossPaperbackINR1,001.11INR1,001.11INR 1,188.99 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - The Food Counter's Pocket Companion, Sixth Edition: Calories, Carbohydrates, Protein, Fats, Fiber, Sugar, Sodium, Iron, Calcium, Potassium, and Vitamin D―with 32 Restaurant ChainsPaperbackINR851.91INR851.91INR 898.88 delivery Mon, Mar 30 Editorial Reviews About the Author •The New American Heart Association Cookbook, 7th Edition •American Heart Association Low-Fat, Low-Cholesterol Cookbook, 3rd Edition •American Heart Association One-Dish Meals •American Heart Association Low-Calorie Cookbook •American Heart Association Low-Salt Cookbook, 2nd Edition •American Heart Association Quick & Easy Cookbook •American Heart Association Meals in Minutes Cookbook The American Heart Association has affiliates that serve the entire United States. For more information, call 1-800-AHA-USA1 (1-800-242-8721). Excerpt. © Reprinted by permission. All rights reserved. Welcome to a No-Fad Way of Life Our mission at the American Heart Association is to help you learn and live. We have designed this book to help you learn to make wise decisions about your weight and live well. If you’re looking for a long-term, livable way to lose weight and keep it off, we’re here to help. You may have tried several times before to lose weight, but without much long-term success. There’s no point in feeling bad about yourself, because the truth is, losing weight is not easy. No magic formula will trim away extra pounds and keep them off. Gimmicks and get-thin-quick schemes don’t work. That’s why, over the long haul, the fads—the grapefruit diet, the very low fat diet, the low-carb diet—are not the answer. We aren’t offering any magic, either—quite the opposite. Instead, we offer you the right tools you need to personalize a weight-loss plan to fit your lifestyle. You can design your own approach using three key concepts: • Think smart • Eat well • Move more We think of these concepts as interlocking circles: the Circles of Success (see page xii). Each component is an essential part of the plan that will lead to no-fad and lifelong weight control. No matter what else may change as different fads come into vogue, the bottom line is still the same: To keep your weight from rising, you must balance the food calories coming into your body with the calories your body uses up. We call this Energy Balance, or Calories In/Calories Out. Like our colleagues at many other major health organizations, we want to help you achieve a healthful lifestyle based on a positive attitude about food, activity, and body image. Your efforts to lose weight should not endanger your long-term health, no matter how enticing the promises of a quick and easy fix may be. In these times of conflicting and confusing messages about diet, exercise, and health, you can turn to this book with confidence. Our recommendations reflect the opinion of many experts—physicians, nutritionists, and specialists in physical activity and behavior modification—not a celebrity or just one physician. Our panel of scientists has reviewed the research and come to a consensus for you. Our message is backed by the science community of the American Heart Association. We know it isn’t easy to lose weight, but we offer you a simple approach that can bring you success—now and for your future. Fads come and go, just like the weight loss they promise. Instead, we will help you create your own workable plan to reach a healthful weight and maintain it. It’s time to try our no-fad approach to a lifetime of good health! The Three Circles of Success If you’re reading this book, most likely your immediate goal is to be thinner. That idea is a good place to start, but the question is how to really achieve lasting success. To make a real difference, direct your attention inward, to the specific things you can control. You need to embrace all of who you are—heart, mind, body, and soul—not focus just on the extra pounds you see when you look in the mirror. To lose weight effectively, you need realistic goals and a personal action plan. Instead of a one-size-fits-all approach, we offer you a menu of choices. Your planning should focus on you, your commitment to yourself, and the three essential circles in our plan—thinking, eating, and moving. What kind of attitude do you bring to the process of losing weight? How much weight do you want to lose and at what rate? How do you want to tailor your activity plan? You make these choices to fit your environment, individual needs, and comfort level. Keep in mind that your plan needs to work for you. You need a plan that will inspire the same commitment you make to other important areas in your life. Are you ready to commit to a healthier you and develop that plan? If your answer is yes, consider the three key Circles of Success. Each circle plays an important part in your personal action plan and they will overlap as you work toward your goals. You will need to include all three circles to achieve successful weight control for life. To address each circle, you have several options to choose from. Because your choices reflect your individual needs, the actions you take will become part of your new life. It may not happen overnight, but if you follow through, it will happen! Circle 1: Think Smart! Making good choices is the cornerstone of success. If negative thinking is affecting your choices, we want to help you learn to change the way you think. The power of thought works both ways. Just as you can talk yourself into having that extra piece of pie, you can also talk yourself into a new attitude and ultimately new behavior that will lead to successful weight loss. Chapter 1, “Think Smart: Find a New Start,” will give you different strategies to rework your current mind-set so you can recognize and change the thought patterns that lead you away from your goals. When you start to think of yourself as a thinner, healthier person, you will help yourself become one. You will think about and make the choices that support that image. For instance, instead of ordering a soft drink, you’ll order something else you like—perhaps unsweetened iced tea or sparkling water—not because you are depriving yourself but because you are making smart substitutions and see yourself as a person who chooses wisely. Circle 2: Eat Well! You already know that if you take in fewer calories than you expend, you will lose weight. The amount of food you eat each day is the Calories In side of Energy Balance. But as you reduce calories, you also need to pay attention to the essentials of good nutrition. Remember: Quality first, then quantity. Chapter 2, “Eat Well: A Personal Approach to a Healthful Weight,” gives you tools to assess your current eating habits and how they contribute to your current weight. The first step in your action plan is to understand how all the facets of your eating patterns work together to cause you to eat the way you do. We offer three different strategies for eating well to lose weight. We will help you decide which strategy will work best for you. Circle 3: Move More! You may think that physical activity is just too much trouble to fit into your hectic life. It’s true that calorie reduction is the key to weight loss, but to keep off the pounds for good, you have to get moving and keep moving. Physical activity is the Calories Out side of Energy Balance and is an essential part of maintaining weight loss and good health. In Chapter 3, “Move More: More Fit and Less Fat,” we outline three practical ways to live a more active life and maintain your weight loss for the long term. We will help you choose which strategy will help you live a more active lifestyle, even if you rarely walk farther than your office parking garage. As you work toward your weight-loss goal, we suggest you start by including at least 10 minutes of activity, such as walking, in your daily routine. Chapter 3 explains how to Product details - Publisher : Harmony/Rodale/Convergent - Publication date : December 26, 2006 - Edition : Reprint - Language : English - Print length : 445 pages - ISBN-10 : 0307347427 - ISBN-13 : 978-0307347428 - Item Weight : 1.65 pounds - Dimensions : 6.12 x 1.05 x 9.25 inches - Part of series : American Heart Association - Best Sellers Rank: #1,092,430 in Books (See Top 100 in Books) - #52 in American Heart Association Nutrition - #653 in Heart Healthy Cooking (Books) - #2,660 in Other Diet Books - Customer Reviews: About the author Discover more of the author’s books, see similar authors, read book recommendations and more. Products related to this item Customer reviews Customer Reviews, including Product Star Ratings help customers to learn more about the product and decide whether it is the right product for them. To calculate the overall star rating and percentage breakdown by star, we don’t use a simple average. Instead, our system considers things like how recent a review is and if the reviewer bought the item on Amazon. It also analyzed reviews to verify trustworthiness. Learn more how customers reviews work on AmazonCustomers say Select to learn more Top reviews from the United States There was a problem filtering reviews. Please reload the page. - Reviewed in the United States on April 14, 2010Format: PaperbackVerified PurchaseTHIS IS STRAIGHT FORWARD..WHAT WE ALL KNOW TO EAT HEALTHY IS IN THIS BOOK. IT IS A SLOW WEIGHT LOSS BUT DOABLE AS OTHER DIETS GO YOU WANT TO STICK TO THE AMOUNTS RECOMMENDED DAILY IN ORDER TO LOSE WEIGHT. THE MORE FRESH FOODS THE BETTER! TAKE PROCESSED FOODS OUT AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE..CUT DOWN ON SALT AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE. I AM IN A WEIGHT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM THAT IS CHURCH BASED CALLED STRIVE! WE USE THIS BOOK AS A REFERENCE IN OUR CLASS....THE ONLY TOPIC NOT REALLY COVERED IS THE EFFECTS OF SUGAR IN OUR DIETS BUT IF YOU FOLLOW THIS DIET YOU SHOULD NOT BE EATING EXCESSIVE SUGARS! I AM PERSONALLY STAYING AWAY FROM ALL ARTIFICIAL SUGARS WHICH IS HARD TO DO. IT IS IN EVERYTHING INCLUDING PRODUCTS THAT DO NOT ADVERTISE IT ON THEIR PACKAGING AS BEING SUGAR FREE. AN EXAMPLE IS THAT NOW MOST GUMS LIST ASPERTAME OR OTHER FORM OF FAKE SUGAR IN THEIR INGREDIENTS AND THEY DO NOT ADVERTISE THIS ON THEIR LABELS...I FIND THIS VERY INTERESTING. - Reviewed in the United States on February 3, 2023Format: PaperbackVerified PurchaseThis book changed my life. I learned that I could cook really good food that didn’t have to be full of fat. I learned portion control. I’ve made meals that have received tons of compliments and they can’t believe how few calories they are consuming. If you are serious about changing your habits and getting healthy-this is the book. I lost 25 pounds and have kept it off for two years with this book, these recipes and moderate activity. - Reviewed in the United States on November 3, 2014Format: PaperbackVerified PurchasePersonally Way more complicated than Weight watchers. Also I have an APP on my phone that tracks calories and exercise and water intake and at the end of the day shows what my diet looked like as in carbs sodium and sugars and fats. - Reviewed in the United States on April 23, 2011Format: PaperbackVerified PurchaseThis book presents a solid, basic diet plan that includes a balance of nutrients, low fat without being obsessive, and relatively low sodium. The book helps you to calculate the number of calories you should eat per day, offers suggestions for gradually incorporating exercise, provides forms for keeping records of your goals and progress, and a number of recipes. For those who have not dieted before, or who have tried different fad diets and found them unlivable, this book offers a healthy, do-able program. Those experienced with balanced, low-calorie diets which advocate moderate exercise will find nothing new here. I was looking for a "jump start" and hoping for new information to motivate me. I didn't receive that from this book-- but someone new to weight loss programs, or sick of offbeat diets that cannot be sustained over the long haul, will find a solid plan here. The recipes are simple, taste good, are not a huge leap from "ordinary" eating, and do not involve weird or exotic ingredients. You won't have to order special, expensive foods (a la the Atkins diet) or eat artificial substitutes in order to follow them. Most are family-friendly, which is important if the dieter has (like me) to cook for a spouse and children. - Reviewed in the United States on May 12, 2007Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseThis is a logical, practical approach, that puts the responsibility on you to change your lifestyle. Losing weight and increasing fitness are not magical. In each area, diet and fitness, they suggest three basic techniques for acheiving your goal, and explain how to decide which technique to use, or mix and match them. For instance, the %75 percent rule has you simply eat %75 sized portions of everything you already eat. Or you could make their recipes. Or do a little of both. Same thing with fitness: are you better suited for the group dynamic of a class, or maybe all you can muster us to increase the work involved in what you are already doing in your life? Or like me, can make a gym date once a week if you're lucky, so need to fill in with more trips up and downstairs with an extra load od laundry. Lot's of good advice for those of us who lack the resources for the gym, or the time to count every calorie that comes across the plate. - Reviewed in the United States on April 2, 2014Format: KindleVerified PurchaseI have tried most of the fad diets and the bottom line is that eliminating food groups is not sustainable or healthy. The key is to eat reasonable amounts of healthy food, with occasional indulgences and move more to get to a healthy weight, a healthy feeling and a healthy lifestyle. This book makes it very clear and gives a lot of how- to's to help you accomplish that. It also tells you that it is not easy and is very realistic about that. - Reviewed in the United States on November 30, 2013Format: PaperbackVerified PurchaseNo hassle getting it. I discovered I already had a hard back newer edition on my library shelf, but that was my error, not yours. I should have checked the copyright date, and previous printings. It is good information anyway, and I will give the copy I just received to the first person I see at my cardiologist's office. I haven't had time to see where the newer copy I already own differs from the older copy you just sent me. - Reviewed in the United States on March 14, 2009Format: PaperbackVerified PurchaseNO FAD DIETS WAS QUITE EXPENSIVE IN BOOKSTORES. AMAZON OFFERED THE BOOK AT A MUCH LOWER PRICE. SERVICE WAS EXCELLENT. ORDERING WAS A SIMPLE TASK AND DELIVERY TOOK TWO DAYS. WHAT MORE CAN ANYONE ASK? I HAVE PURCHSED MANY THINGS FROM AMAZON - NINTENDO GAMES, CONTROLLER PADS = NUMMEROUS BOOKS FOR MY GRANDCHILDERENS LIBRARY AND FOR MY OWN LIBRARY. I HAVE NEVER BEEN DISATIFEFIED WITH ANY PURCHASES THROUGH THE YEARS.BECAUSE OF THIS I NEVERBUY ANYTHING UNLESSI CHECK IT OUT WITH AVAZON. LOUISE J. JORDAN


--- [American Heart Association No-Fad Diet by American Heart ...] ---
Best Seller Paperback $21.00 Published on Dec 26, 2006 | 464 Pages Tired of losing weight and gaining it back? Sick of fad diets and gimmicks? Frustrated by crazy food restrictions? Try the No-Fad Diet By now, you’ve heard of (and maybe tried) them all: the low-carb diet, the grapefruit diet, the miracle diet . . . the list goes on and on. Fad diets may promise a quick fix, but few deliver lasting results. If you’re like millions of other Americans, you’re still struggling to lose weight and get in shape—without harming your long-term health in the process. It’s time to leave behind the one-size-fits-all approach to dieting. Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way. After a simple assessment of your current habits, you choose the eating and exercise strategies that best fit your needs. You’ll learn how to set realistic goals, eat well to lose extra pounds safely, and add physical activity to keep the weight off for good. This book offers more than 190 delicious, all-new recipes, including Cream of Triple-Mushroom Soup, Tilapia Cham-pignon, Chicken Pot Pie, Pumpkin-Cranberry Pancakes, and Vanilla Soufflé with Brandy-Plum Sauce. You’ll also find two weeks of sample menus, guidelines for meal planning, useful tips on dining out and food shopping, and sound advice for staying on track to reach your target weight. What’s the only effective way to lose weight and keep it off? It’s simple: Calories in must be less than calories out. But since the factors that contribute to this not-so-magic formula are different for everyone, a one-size diet plan does not fit all. The No-Fad Diet includes: • Tips on turning negative thinking into positive rewards • Simple quizzes to find the approach that’s best for you • Diary pages to record and monitor your eating and activity habits • Strategies to reduce calories and increase your activity levels • Guidelines to help you prepare your own nutritious meals • More than 190 delicious and healthful recipes • Techniques to maintain your momentum The weight-loss strategies in this book are based on reliable scientific research and are backed by respected medical professionals. The American Heart Association has the information you can trust. Also available as a Random House Large Print Edition By now, you’ve heard of (and maybe tried) them all: the low-carb diet, the grapefruit diet, the miracle diet . . . the list goes on and on. Fad diets may promise a quick fix, but few deliver lasting results. If you’re like millions of other Americans, you’re still struggling to lose weight and get in shape—without harming your long-term health in the process. It’s time to leave behind the one-size-fits-all approach to dieting. Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book. No-Fad Diet helps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way. After a simple assessment of your current habits, you choose the eating and exercise strategies that best fit your needs. You’ll learn how to set realistic goals, eat well to lose extra pounds safely, and add physical activity to keep the weight off for good. This book offers more than 190 delicious, all-new recipes, including Cream of Triple-Mushroom Soup, Tilapia Cham-pignon, Chicken Pot Pie, Pumpkin-Cranberry Pancakes, and Vanilla Soufflé with Brandy-Plum Sauce. You’ll also find two weeks of sample menus, guidelines for meal planning, useful tips on dining out and food shopping, and sound advice for staying on track to reach your target weight. What’s the only effective way to lose weight and keep it off? It’s simple: Calories in must be less than calories out. But since the factors that contribute to this not-so-magic formula are different for everyone, a one-size diet plan does not fit all. The No-Fad Diet includes: • Tips on turning negative thinking into positive rewards • Simple quizzes to find the approach that’s best for you • Diary pages to record and monitor your eating and activity habits • Strategies to reduce calories and increase your activity levels • Guidelines to help you prepare your own nutritious meals • More than 190 delicious and healthful recipes • Techniques to maintain your momentum The weight-loss strategies in this book are based on reliable scientific research and are backed by respected medical professionals. The American Heart Association has the information you can trust. Also available as a Random House Large Print Edition Author American Heart Association The American Heart Association is the nation’s premier authority on heart health. Its bestselling library of cookbooks and guides includes American Heart Association Low-Fat, Low-Cholesterol Cookbook; The New American Heart Association Cookbook; American Heart Association No-Fad Diet; American Heart Association Low-Salt Cookbook; American Heart Association Meals in Minutes Cookbook; American Heart Association Low-Calorie Cookbook; and American Heart Association Quick & Easy Cookbook. Learn More about American Heart AssociationYou May Also Like QUICK VIEW Sweet and Deadly Trade Paperback Original $24.95 QUICK VIEW Crave, Cook, Nourish Hardcover $32.99 QUICK VIEW Big Bites: Time to Eat! Hardcover $35.00 QUICK VIEW Training for a Healthy Life Trade Paperback $11.99 QUICK VIEW The Yates Protocol Hardcover $30.00 QUICK VIEW Plant Powered Plus Hardcover $32.00 QUICK VIEW PCOS Is My Power Trade Paperback Original $23.00 QUICK VIEW The Salad Project Hardcover $28.00 QUICK VIEW Weightless Hardcover $29.00 ×


--- [Fad diet] ---
A fad diet is a diet that is popular, generally only for a short time, similar to fads in fashion, without being a standard scientific dietary recommendation. They often make unreasonable claims for fast weight loss or health improvements, and as such are often considered a type of pseudoscientific diet. Fad diets are usually not supported by clinical research and their health recommendations are not peer-reviewed, thus they often make unsubstantiated statements about health and disease.
Generally, fad diets promise an assortment of desired changes requiring little effort, thus attracting the interest of consumers uneducated about whole-diet, whole-lifestyle changes necessary for sustainable health benefits. Fad diets are often promoted with exaggerated claims, such as rapid weight loss of more than 1 kg/week, improving health by "detoxification", or even more dangerous claims achieved through highly restrictive and nutritionally unbalanced food choices leading to malnutrition or even eating non-food items such as cotton wool. Highly restrictive fad diets should be avoided. At best, fad diets may offer novel and engaging ways to reduce caloric intake, but at worst they may be unsustainable, medically unsuitable to the individual, or even dangerous. Dietitian advice should be preferred before attempting any diet.
Celebrity endorsements are frequently used to promote fad diets, which may generate significant revenue for the creators of the diets through the sale of associated products. Regardless of their evidence base, or lack thereof, fad diets are extremely popular, with over 1500 books published each year, and many consumers willing to pay into an industry worth $35 billion per year in the United States. About 14–15% Americans declare having used a fad diet for short-term weight loss.




--- [American Heart Association No-Fad Diet, 2nd Edition: A Personal Plan ...] ---
Libro usado en buenas condiciones, por su antiguedad podria contener señales normales de uso "synopsis" may belong to another edition of this title. THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION is the nation’s premier authority on heart health. Its bestselling library of cookbooks and guides includes The New American Heart Association Cookbook, 8th Edition; American Heart Association Quick & Easy Meals; American Heart Association Complete Guide to Women’s Heart Health; American Heart Association Healthy Family Meals; American Heart Association Low-Fat, Low-Cholesterol Cookbook, 4th Edition; American Heart Association Low-Salt Cookbook, 3rd Edition; and American Heart Association Quick & Easy Cookbook. For more information, please visit americanheart.org or call 1-800-AHA-USA1 (1-800-242-8721). "About this title" may belong to another edition of this title. Seller: ThriftBooks-Dallas, Dallas, TX, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Very Good. No Jacket. May have limited writing in cover pages. Pages are unmarked. ~ ThriftBooks: Read More, Spend Less. Seller Inventory # G0307407594I4N00 Seller: ThriftBooks-Dallas, Dallas, TX, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Very Good. No Jacket. Missing dust jacket; May have limited writing in cover pages. Pages are unmarked. ~ ThriftBooks: Read More, Spend Less. Seller Inventory # G0307407594I4N01 Seller: Better World Books, Mishawaka, IN, U.S.A. Condition: Good. 2nd Edition. Former library copy. Pages intact with minimal writing/highlighting. The binding may be loose and creased. Dust jackets/supplements are not included. Includes library markings. Stock photo provided. Product includes identifying sticker. Better World Books: Buy Books. Do Good. Seller Inventory # 3173681-75 Seller: Better World Books, Mishawaka, IN, U.S.A. Condition: Good. 2nd Edition. Pages intact with minimal writing/highlighting. The binding may be loose and creased. Dust jackets/supplements are not included. Stock photo provided. Product includes identifying sticker. Better World Books: Buy Books. Do Good. Seller Inventory # 4862693-6 Seller: Better World Books: West, Reno, NV, U.S.A. Condition: Good. 2nd Edition. Former library copy. Pages intact with minimal writing/highlighting. The binding may be loose and creased. Dust jackets/supplements are not included. Includes library markings. Stock photo provided. Product includes identifying sticker. Better World Books: Buy Books. Do Good. Seller Inventory # 3173681-75 Seller: Wonder Book, Frederick, MD, U.S.A. Condition: Good. Good condition. Good dust jacket. 2nd edition. A copy that has been read but remains intact. May contain markings such as bookplates, stamps, limited notes and highlighting, or a few light stains. Bundled media such as CDs, DVDs, floppy disks or access codes may not be included. Seller Inventory # P06B-02069 Seller: Orion Tech, Kingwood, TX, U.S.A. hardcover. Condition: Good. Seller Inventory # 0307407594-3-35730646 Seller: World of Books (was SecondSale), Montgomery, IL, U.S.A. Condition: Acceptable. Item in very good condition! Textbooks may not include supplemental items i.e. CDs, access codes etc. Seller Inventory # 00078048465 Seller: World of Books (was SecondSale), Montgomery, IL, U.S.A. Condition: Good. Item in very good condition! Textbooks may not include supplemental items i.e. CDs, access codes etc. Seller Inventory # 00078043797 Seller: Russell Books, Victoria, BC, Canada Hardcover. Condition: Good. 2nd Edition. Bargain book! Seller Inventory # X009997


--- [The No-fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight Loss ...] ---
The No-fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight LossBy now, you’ve heard of (and maybe tried) them all: the low-carb diet, the grapefruit diet, the miracle diet . . . the list goes on and on. Fad diets may promise a quick fix, but few deliver lasting results. If you’re like millions of other Americans, you’re still struggling to lose weight and get in shape—without harming your long-term health in the process. It’s time to leave behind the one-size-fits-all approach to dieting. Now, the American Heart Association, the nation’s most trusted authority on heart-healthy living, introduces its first-ever comprehensive weight-loss book.No-Fad Diethelps you create a personalized plan to lose weight in a healthful way. After a simple assessment of your current habits, you choose the eating and exercise strategies that best fit your needs. You’ll learn how to set realistic goals, eat well to lose extra pounds safely, and add physical activity to keep the weight off for good. This book offers more than 190 delicious, all-new recipes, including Cream of Triple-Mushroom Soup, Tilapia Cham-pignon, Chicken Pot Pie, Pumpkin-Cranberry Pancakes, and Vanilla Soufflé with Brandy-Plum Sauce. You’ll also find two weeks of sample menus, guidelines for meal planning, useful tips on dining out and food shopping, and sound advice for staying on track to reach your target weight. If you’re fed up with fads and want a diet that can provide a lifetime of effective weight control,No-Fad Dietis the book for you. Tired of losing weight and gaining it back? Sick of fad diets and gimmicks? Frustrated by crazy food restrictions? Try theNo-Fad Diet What’s the only effective way to lose weight and keep it off? It’s simple: Calories in must be less than calories out. But since the factors that contribute to this not-so-magic formula are different for everyone, a one-size diet plan does not fit all. TheNo-Fad Dietincludes: •Tips on turning negative thinking into positive rewards •Simple quizzes to find the approach that’s best for you •Diary pages to record and monitor your eating and activity habits •Strategies to reduce calories and increase your activity levels •Guidelines to help you prepare your own nutritious meals •More than 190 delicious and healthful recipes •Techniques to maintain your momentum The weight-loss strategies in this book are based on reliable scientific research and are backed by respected medical professionals. The American Heart Association has the information you can trust. Also available as a Random House Large Print Edition | Other editions - View all No-fad Diet: A Personal Plan for Healthy Weight Loss American Heart Association No preview available - 2005 |
