=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Léon Gambetta - Wikipedia]
When the downfall of the Dufaure cabinet brought about MacMahon's resignation, Gambetta declined to become a candidate for the presidency, but supported Jules Grévy; nor did he attempt to form a ministry, but accepted the office of president of the chamber of deputies in January 1879.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A9on_Gambetta

[Gambetta, Léon-Michel - Encyclopedia.com]
Many expected Gambetta to become prime minister in 1879, as leader of the majority grouping in the Chamber of Deputies, but President Jules Grévy (a republican) bypassed him. He was instead elected president (speaker) of the Chamber (1879-1881).
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/history/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/gambetta-leon-michel

[Léon Gambetta - Wikiquote]
Gambetta (circa 1871) Léon Gambetta (2 April 1838 - 31 December 1882) was a French lawyer and republican politician who proclaimed the French Third Republic in 1870 and played a prominent role in its early government. He was Minister of the Interior from 4 September 1870 until 6 February 1871, President of the Chamber of Deputies from 31 January 1879 until 27 October 1881, Prime Minister of ...
URL: https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/L%C3%A9on_Gambetta

[Léon Gambetta - NNDB]
When the resignation of the Dufaure cabinet brought about the abdication of Marshal MacMahon, Gambetta declined to become a candidate for the presidency, but gave his support to Grévy; nor did he attempt to form a ministry, but accepted the office of president of the chamber of deputies (January 1879).
URL: https://www.nndb.com/people/830/000093551/

[Léon Gambetta (1838 - 1882) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Feb 26, 2025 · When the downfall of the Dufaure cabinet brought about MacMahon's resignation, Gambetta declined to become a candidate for the presidency, but supported Jules Grévy; nor did he attempt to form a ministry, but accepted the office of president of the chamber of deputies in January 1879.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/L%C3%A9on-Gambetta/6000000043279744442


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Léon Gambetta - Wikipedia] ---
Léon Gambetta (French: [leɔ̃ ɡɑ̃bɛta]; 2 April 1838 – 31 December 1882) was a French lawyer and republican politician who proclaimed the French Third Republic in 1870 and played a prominent role in its early government.


--- [Gambetta, Léon-Michel - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Gambetta, Léon-Michel GAMBETTA, LÉON-MICHEL GAMBETTA, LÉON-MICHEL (1838–1882), French statesman and founder of the French Third Republic (1870–1940). Léon Gambetta was born 2 April 1838 at Cahors (Lot), in southwestern France. His French mother and Italian-born father ran a grocery. Gambetta studied law in Paris (1857–1859) and soon displayed his talents as an orator. His impassioned defense plea in the "Baudin Trial" (November 1868), attacking the legitimacy of the Second Empire, brought him to national prominence. He was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in May 1869. His election manifesto, the "Belleville Programme," defined the republic an agenda into the twentieth century: "universal" (that is, male) suffrage; freedom of speech and association; separation of church and state; and free, compulsory, secular education. Together, he and the politician and historian Adolphe Thiers were the founders of the French Third Republic (1870–1940) and thus of modern republicanism in France. Emperor Napoleon III's capture at Sedan during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–1871) saw the empire overthrown and a republic proclaimed (4 September 1870). As minister of the interior in the Government of National Defense, Gambetta escaped the besieged capital by balloon, crossed enemy lines, and raised an army of 110,000. In the elections of February 1871, he was returned in ten departments. As a patriotic statement, he chose to represent Bas-Rhin in Alsace. Refusing to ratify the peace treaty that gave Alsace to Germany, Gambetta resigned on 1 March 1871. Gambetta spent several months in the country recovering his health and was not involved in politics during the Paris Commune of 1871. He was again elected to the Chamber in July 1871 and chose to represent Paris. France was now nominally a republic, but monarchists had a majority in the Chamber and sought a restoration. Gambetta set out to create broad support for the republic. In November 1871 he established a newspaper, La république française (The French republic). During the 1870s he toured the provinces preaching republicanism to the "new social strata": the petty bourgeoisie and peasantry, whose growing political importance he predicted. Gambetta developed "opportunism," a gradual implementation of the republican program. He toned down the revolutionary image of republicanism, presenting it as a viable system of government in which all political adversaries could operate. He persuaded republicans to accept the compromises required to pass the Constitution of 1875: a president to name prime ministers (instead of total parliamentary control) and a conservative, rurally based senate to balance the lower house (instead of a unicameral legislature). Gambetta's republicanism rested on his reverence for the Revolution of 1789, his commitment to the "rights of man" (he said nothing about the "rights of women"), and his anticlericalism. He made "Clericalism, that is the enemy!" the catchphrase of republicans for generations. He did not oppose religious belief (though, like many republicans, he was a freethinker), but he attacked the secular power of the Catholic Church and especially church control of education, which had greatly increased under the Second Empire. He proposed a secular, national system of elementary education for both sexes, recognizing the importance of girls' education for the future of republicanism. Despite his attachment to Alsace-Lorraine, Gambetta came to believe that revanchism (the politics of revenge) was futile and dangerous. He considered meeting with the German chancellor Otto von Bismarck, to improve relations with Germany, but this was unacceptable in 1870s France. He supported modernizing the French army and developing colonialism as a way to restore French greatness. Many expected Gambetta to become prime minister in 1879, as leader of the majority grouping in the Chamber of Deputies, but President Jules Grévy (a republican) bypassed him. He was instead elected president (speaker) of the Chamber (1879–1881). When he was finally appointed prime minister on 14 November 1881, his support among republicans had dwindled. Rather than establishing a "Great Ministry" of leading republicans, as anticipated, he had to appoint unknown figures. His government survived only until 26 January 1882. At the end of that year he suffered an attack of appendicitis while recovering from an accidental, self-inflicted gunshot wound. Doctors feared to operate on such a prominent figure and he died from peritonitis on 31 December 1882, aged forty-four. Jules Ferry, premier of France (1880–1881, 1883–1885), implemented Gambetta's republican program of education, infrastructure development, and colonial expansion. In his own time, Gambetta was revered as the father of the republic. The fall of the Third Republic (1940) reduced his standing, but in the 1960s and 1970s the work of J. P. T. Bury and Jacques Chastenet reestablished his significance. He made republicanism a practical form of government and helped end eighty years of instability that began with the Revolution of 1789. See alsoAnticlericalism; Education; Ferry, Jules; France; Franco-Prussian War; Thiers, Louis-Adolphe. bibliography Primary Sources Halévy, Daniel, and Émile Pillias, eds. Lettres de Gambetta, 1868–1882. Paris, 1938. Reinach, Joseph, ed. Discours et plaidoyers politiques de M. Gambetta. Paris, 1880–1885. Secondary Sources Amson, Daniel. Gambetta; ou, Le rêve brisé. Paris, 1994. Antonmattei, Pierre. Léon Gambetta: Héraut de la République. Paris, 1999. The best modern biography. Bury, John Patrick Tuer. Gambetta and the Making of the Third Republic. London, 1973. ——. Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France. Westport, Conn., 1971. ——. Gambetta's Final Years: "The Era of Difficulties," 1877–1882. London and New York, 1982. Bury's trilogy is the most scholarly account of Gambetta's political career. Chastenet, Jacques. Gambetta. Paris, 1968. Elwitt, Sanford. The Making of the Third Republic: Class and Politics in France, 1868–1884. Baton Rouge, La., 1975. Elwitt's interpretation of Gambetta's role in the founding of the Republic remains central. Grévy, Jérôme. La république des opportunistes, 1870–1885. Paris, 1998. Grévy provides the most scholarly modern interpretation of Gambetta's role. Susan K. Foley, Charles Sowerwine


--- [Léon Gambetta - Wikiquote] ---
Léon Gambetta Appearance Léon Gambetta (2 April 1838 – 31 December 1882) was a French lawyer and republican politician who proclaimed the French Third Republic in 1870 and played a prominent role in its early government. He was Minister of the Interior from 4 September 1870 until 6 February 1871, President of the Chamber of Deputies from 31 January 1879 until 27 October 1881, Prime Minister of France from 14 November 1881 until 30 January 1882 and Minister of Foreign Affairs from 14 November 1881 until 30 January 1882. Quotes [edit]1869 [edit]- France is bound under the pain of humiliation and perhaps of social death to complete the French Revolution. It is the task of the nineteenth century; it is particularly the task of our generation. The centenary of 1789 must not dawn upon us without the reconquest by the people for itself and for the rest of the world of the political heritage of which it has been dispossessed since the 18th Brumaire. - Letter to the electors of the Seine (28 July 1869), quoted in J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France (1936), p. 25 1870 [edit]- I am sorry to see that our Republican traditions are being weakened and effaced by the influence of humanitarian doctrines. We who are Republicans should no more than other Frenchmen be patient in tolerating the claim of a military and reactionary power to impose its will and preponderance upon our country and upon the rest of Europe. Danton did not refuse his aid. - Interview with Le Figaro after Leopold, Prince of Hohenzollern was offered the Spanish crown (July 1870), quoted in J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France (1936), p. 36 - On this day, seventy-eight years ago, our fathers founded the Republic, and—while the foreign invader was profaning the sacred soil of their country—vowed to live free or to die fighting. They kept their vow; they defeated the foreigner; and the Republic of 1792 lives in the memory of men as the symbol of heroism and national greatness... May the spirit of power that inspired our forefathers breathe into our own souls, and we, too, shall conquer! - Proclamation (21 September 1870), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 65 1871 [edit]- At this moment I have only one preoccupation: after our fruitless efforts to drive out the foreigner to try to save at least our Republican institutions. - Letter to his father (19 February 1871), quoted in J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the Making of the Third Republic (1973), p. 21 - I have never been a subscriber to this vague and deceptive theory of a Republican United States of Europe...after the hard and severe lessons given us by recent events I absolutely reject this theory as fatal for the regeneration of France, false as a matter of general history, and dangerous for democracy and the freedom of the world. - Letter to Gustave Naquet (1871), quoted in J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the Making of the Third Republic (1973), p. 45 - There will be no peace and no order until all classes of society shall have been given a share in the benefits of civilisation and science, and can regard their Government as the legitimate offspring of their own sovereign power, rather than as an exacting and greedy master. Until that day, if we pursue our present fatal path, you will drive the ignorant to support coups d'état at one moment, and swell the forces of street rioters at the next, and we shall be left exposed to the pitiless fury of irresponsible mobs...trying to avenge themselves by looting among the ruins. - Speech in Bordeaux (26 June 1871), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 146 - I would have him able, not only to think, read and reason, but also to act and fight. Everywhere we must have, side by side with the schoolmaster, the athlete and the military instructor. [These two forms of education] must be carried on side by side. Otherwise your schools will turn out literary men, but never patriots. The whole world should be made to understand that when a French citizen is born, he is born a soldier. - Speech in Bordeaux (26 June 1871), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 147 - I have never been a very keen supporter of the ideas and principles of cosmopolitanism. There is about them something that is too vague, too idealistic, despite the appearance of a certain brilliance and speciousness. I believe that their most assured result is to efface, or reduce too greatly, the love of one's country and one's sense of civic responsibility. In the present situation of our country, what matters, on the contrary, is that our hearts attach themselves more than ever to the principles dictated by a devotion to the national cause, and that they find their inspiration in the French idea. I love my country too much to sacrifice any part whatever of its prosperity or strength to a system, however generous it may be, or appear to be. - Letter to the organisers of the Lausanne Peace Congress (September 1871), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 19 - What we have lacked is what people who have allowed themselves to be enslaved for too long always lack: faith in themselves and a proper hatred of the foreigner. Let us never speak of the foreigner, but let it be clear that we always think of him. Thus you will be on the road to revenge. - Speech in Saint-Quentin (16 November 1871), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 20 - I want to make it a platform from which we shall demand each day before Europe our rights and our ravished provinces. France is at the mercy of Germany. We are in a state of latent war; neither peace nor freedom nor progress is any longer possible in Europe. - Circular letter sent to Alsace-Lorraine to advertise the daily newspaper République Française, which was founded in November 1871, quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 20 1872 [edit]- If, amid our misfortunes, the Republican form of government has appeared the only one possible, it is because no other was in a position to confront the danger. At the time of the catastrophe there was no thought of any other Government. Where were the claimants to the throne? - Speech in Havre (18 April 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), pp. 155-156 - Never let us deny the poverty and suffering of a section of the democracy. But let us also beware of the Utopias of those who believe that a panacea or a formula can make the world happy. There is no social remedy, because there is not one social question, but a whole series of problems to be solved and difficulties are to be overcome. These problems must be solved one by one and not by means of any single formula. There is no panacea. - Speech in Havre (18 April 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 156 - Paris, the cradle of our civilisation, the buckler of our public liberties, the teacher and guide of the national genius, Paris that may be made a mark for the imbecile hatred of a few rustic boors, but can never be downtrodden nor dishonoured. - Speech in Havre (18 April 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 157 - Tenacity is one of the characteristics of your race. It is for that reason that our dear Alsace was especially necessary to French unity; it represented that unquenchable energy which exists among us, side by side with a fickleness and levity which at times, unfortunately, mar our national character. Until Alsace comes back into the family circle there will be no France and no Europe. Let us not speak of revenge, let us utter no rash word, let us think over the matter calmly and soberly. For my part, I have no other ambition than faithfully to observe the mandate you have given me, a mandate that I look upon as my greatest honour, the ruling principle of my life. - Speech to Alsatians who had presented him with a bronze (9 May 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 157 - A man's first duty is to fight for his country. - Speech to the celebration of Lazare Hoche's birthday in Versailles (24 June 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 160 - The unity that was attained on July 14, 1789, must be restored. Every effort has been made to sow divisions between peasant and artisan, between artisan and bourgeois; these elements must once more be welded together. Let your fields, your religious festivals, your meetings, your markets, your fairs, serve as opportunities for political discussion and education. - Speech in La Ferté-sous-Jouarre (14 July 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 161 - Wherever there is a French mother, she should bring up her children to show a religious love for France. If there is anything to console us amid the sorrow and shame of our bereaved country, it is the thought that the mothers and the patriots of France will supply her future champions and avengers. But before we think of the future we must make sure of the present, and establish once and for all a Government founded on justice and equality, not an envious and grudging equality, but that equality of rights and duties which recognises no other distinctions between man and man than those arising from character, intelligence and energy in the battle of life. - Speech to the workers of Loire (1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 161 - The Republic should not mean the privileged rule of a few; it should be a tool that all may handle... Let us shelve the discussion of theories and keep for the time being to questions of conduct, let us tend the Republic with all possible care while it is still in the bud, let us watch over the young tree with loving devotion. - Speech in Chambéry (1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 161 - France has seen a portion of her inheritance wrested from her; she must recover her loss. That is the work we have to do: let us think of it always, but speak of it—never! - Speech in Chambéry (1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 162 - Go into your places of worship, believe, affirm, pray. What I demand is liberty, an equal liberty for you and for me, for my philosophy and for your religious beliefs. We are not the foes of religion; we want to see it set on a firm basis, free and inviolable. - Speech in Albertville (1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 162 - Yes, I foresee...I announce the arrival and the presence on the political scene of a new social class which has been active in the affairs of the country for nearly eighteen months, and which is certainly far from inferior to its predecessors... What do you expect? There are in France some social classes which have found it difficult for forty-five years to face up not only to the French revolution, but also to its consequences... And it is in this lack of decision and courage of a notable part of the French bourgeoisie that I find the origin and explanation of all our misfortunes, our shortcomings, of all that is still uncertain, vague and unhealthy in today's politics. One asks oneself, in all conscience, how these men can close their eyes to a spectacle that ought to be obvious to them. Have they not since the fall of the Empire witnessed the arrival of a new generation, intelligent, fit to take part in government, anxious for all its right? ... Is this not a typical warning that the country, after having tried many forms of government, wants at last to call on another social class, to try the republican way? - Speech in Grenoble (26 September 1872), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), pp. 18-19 - Ah, they never trafficked in their blood, those two beloved provinces: it was their children whose breasts were the first to be pierced! Noble provinces, always heart and soul for France, always looking towards her flag.—"Yes, we suffer," they said, "but it is for our country's sake that we suffer, the very life-blood of the nation courses through our veins! ..." Gentlemen, I cannot go on, I cannot... It is... those provinces... - Speech in Thonon to a deputation of Alsace-Lorrainers (29 September 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 163 - It is well to weigh our words carefully when we speak of France's heritage. France, as you say with justice, will be all the more attractive when her destinies are controlled by all her citizens, and not swayed by the caprice of one. Yes, France in all her glory, France, under the auspices of the Republic, once more at the head of civilisation, offering to the world her legions of artists and workmen, of peasants, traders and professional men—yes, it is worth while to belong to such a France as that, and there is no man who would not then be proud to say, in his turn, "I am a French citizen!" But there is another France that I cherish no less, another France just as dear to me—the France that has been vanquished, overwhelmed, humbled in the dust. Yes, I adore that France as a mother; it is to that France that we must sacrifice our lives, our love of self, our personal enjoyment; it is of that France that we must say, "Where France is, there is our country!" - Speech after a member of the departmental council said that if the monarchy were restored in France, Savoy would unite herself with Switzerland (c. October 1872), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 164 1874 [edit]- What, what, I ask you, would be the value in these formidable elections of an exclusively republican policy, excessively ardent, incisive in its programme, alarming in its doctrines, compromising in its representatives? It would be swept away like straw before the wind, and all we should have left to console us for the blindness of the multitudes would be sterile oratory. - Letter to Juliette Adam (14 September 1874), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 17 - Yes, everything for the country, we must love it absolutely and be ready to sacrifice everything for it, down to our most private preferences. And this is a little more difficult than offering one's carcass or fortune. I prize nothing more than that beautiful title: Patriot before all else. - Letter to Jules Claretie (3 December 1874), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 22 1876 [edit]- I must confess I am driven to distraction by our everlasting squabbles over personal matters, the perpetual clash of private interests. How can I do anything for my country's good when my hands are tied like this? What a time for petty wrangling! We are in a state of utter chaos; everything is at sixes and sevens. All this time, Germany is growing stronger and Bismarck has the whip-hand. You will notice, too, that every time he cracks his whip it is just after some piece of diplomatic bungling on our part. We are always at the mercy of some "incident." What would become of us if we had not learnt to dodge these blows, if we were as innocent as when we fell into the trap of the forged telegram from Ems? - Letter to Arthur Ranc (3 March 1876), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 216 1878 [edit]- Those who imagine that it is the duty, or that it lies within the power, of the Government to secure the happiness of all, are pursuing a mirage. Strictly speaking, there is only one thing that a Government owes to all, and that is, justice. Every man being his own master, it rests with him to make himself happy or unhappy by using his freedom to good or bad purpose. The State does no more than guarantee an equality of rights to everyone, be he rich or poor, high or low. What we want is not an aristocratic or a middle-class or a proletarian Republic, but a national Republic. - Speech to the working-men's deputation from the Aveyron at the 1878 Paris Exposition (8 November 1878), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 258 1881 [edit]- I am only saddened by the help foreigners obtain from my electoral opponents at home. It is very sad to see the extreme (radical) republican party losing even the notion of patriotism. - Letter to the Marquise Arconati Visconti (19 February 1881), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 31 - I found myself unable to tolerate such a lowering of republican France before Europe and I intervened. In a few minutes I made them ratify a firm policy, one of national pride. - Letter to Léonie Léon (9 November 1881), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 31 1882 [edit]- As time goes on, the Republic, with its tendency to decentralisation, and its democratic prejudices pushed to extremes, will see its strength and its resources in soldiers melt away. Equality, for the army, means indiscipline and lack of cohesion; liberty means criticism pushed to the point of denigration and calumny against leaders...; fraternity is cosmopolitanism, humanitarianism, international stupidity; all these will doom us and, after a few years, they will throw us, an easy prey, under the feet of the Teutons, united with the Latins from across the Alps... We are slipping on to the slope of the South American republics... And what becomes of France in all this? That is the least concern of this degenerate race. - Letter to A. Gérard (12 August 1882), quoted in Herbert Tint, The Decline of French Patriotism 1870–1940 (1964), p. 34 Quotes about Léon Gambetta [edit]- Gambetta, like Danton, was first and foremost the man of energy, the eloquent tribune who kindled the spirit of national resistance, and supplied an indispensable moral driving force... [T]here was no one else at the time who could have done it as well, no one who had the confidence, the energy, and the prestige necessary to carry the country with him as did Gambetta. Badly, indeed, he did conduct the war in many ways... But, despite all this, and despite its apparent fruitlessness, Gambetta's work had a real significance; for, in so far as it was conducted well, it revealed new possibilities, and it had a genuine moral value. - J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France (1936), pp. 276-278 - If, as Renan said, he destroyed the legend of 1792, nevertheless, despite the defects of his administration, he showed the immense possibilities of a well-organised national defence, and of the systematic resistance of a whole people to a foreign invader. And Europe, and, most important of all, in Europe Germany, was impressed by that demonstration. There was no more eloquent tribute to its effectiveness than the wish expressed by von der Goltz that should Germany ever suffer such defeat as France in 1870, she should find a man like Gambetta to kindle resistance to the uttermost. - J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France (1936), p. 278 - He had helped to restore the self-respect of the French people, to save its honour, and by identifying every citizen with the national defence to revive the idea of the "Patrie" in all its full significance. Even after his programme of war to the knife had proved impracticable, the idea had value. By it and by his protest against the treaty of Frankfurt, Gambetta personified the conception of the essential unity and indivisibility of France. - J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the National Defence: A Republican Dictatorship in France (1936), p. 279 - He was a foreigner, who relied greatly on the sonorousness of his voice, from which, however, he obtained striking effects. Not many ideas. He had conducted the war—both well and badly, but more badly than well—but he certainly did conduct it, and as well as he could. And he had profoundly generous impulses—his philosophy was beautiful and noble. I liked Gambetta, and respected him. He didn't know very well where he was going, but he went with ardour. - Georges Clemenceau, remarks to Jean Martet (19 June 1928), quoted in Jean Martet, Clemenceau: The Events of His Life As Told by Himself to His Former Secretary Jean Martet (1930), pp. 280-281 - [Gambetta is] one of the few orators of our time, perhaps the only one, who could make an audience experience that divine shudder which tightens the throat and makes one's hair stand on end. - Jules Delafosse, Figures contemporaines (1899), p. 191, quoted in J. P. T. Bury, Gambetta and the Making of the Third Republic (1973), p. 67 - Gambetta was dearly loved in his lifetime, and is still loved no less dearly. His name is a part of France's religion: what more glorious dream could a great soul cherish? In the blaze of that sunlight, his faults, his mistakes, his inconsistencies disappear from view. France no longer sees aught but this—that when everything had crashed into ruin, when all seemed lost, there arose one man who bore up the flag, with indomitable faith, to the end. She loves him vanquished no less than if he had been victorious. Vanquished, do I say? Nay, he is victorious. Yes, he is victorious to-day by our side. It is because he held out in 1870 that France did not lose the world's esteem or her own self-respect, that she kept her rank in the human family, that she raised herself and fulfilled the destiny that he had planned. - Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 329 - There can be no great nation or great man without a great idea. A nation like France does not own itself finally beaten because of three defeats: that is what he felt, that is what he proclaimed with irresistible force, with deathless eloquence. From 1914 to 1918 his soul fought in company with our heroes. His ideal, the union of all Frenchmen in a victorious Republic, has proved a reality. In the hour when France signed the peace of Right he was present in our midst and took part in the ceremony. - Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), pp. 329-330 - On December 9, 1918, when we entered Strasburg, we read, on a house in the Grand-Rue, the following scrawl, an artless and touching effusion of popular feeling: "Sleep in peace, Gambetta! At last the glorious dawn of the day you dreamed of has arisen for us!" France, Alsace and Lorraine have always given themselves freely to those who loved them well and never doubted that they were sound.- Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), p. 330 - I cannot but remember that we are all saddened to-night by the death of a great man—the greatest of all Frenchmen of his time... All, I think, of whatever party, have admired the magnitude of his courage, his tremendous energy, his splendid oratory, and, those who knew him in private, his unmatched gaiety and sparkling wit. These have made him, I repeat, the first Frenchman of his day. - Charles Dilke, speech in Chelsea (1 January 1883), quoted in The Times (2 January 1883), p. 4 - It seems difficult to speak of "moral" power about Gambetta. His kind of power was almost purely physical; it was a power of courage, energy, and oratory. - Charles Dilke, letter (1883), quoted in Stephen Gwynn and Gertrude M. Tuckwell, The Life of the Rt. Hon. Sir Charles W. Dilke Bart., M.P. Vol. I (1917), p. 513 - Much as I loved his society, I did not think him a loss to the Republic, for he was too dictatorial and too little inclined to let other men do important work to suit that form of government, except, indeed, in time of war. It is quite true that his was the only strong personality of which France could boast, and it was possible that, so long as he was there, the people would not be likely in a panic to hunt in other camps for a saviour; but great as was his power—physical power, power of courage and of oratory—and terrible as was the hole in France made by his death, nevertheless the smaller men were perhaps more able to conduct the Republic to prosperity and to general acceptance by the people. - Charles Dilke, quoted in Stephen Gwynn and Gertrude M. Tuckwell, The Life of the Rt. Hon. Sir Charles W. Dilke Bart., M.P. Vol. I (1917), pp. 513-514 - Gambetta (puisque vous me demandez mon opinion sur le dit sieur) m'a paru, au premier abord, grotesque, puis raisonnable, puis agréable el finalement charmant (le mot n'est pas trop fort); nous avons causé seul à seul pendant vingt minutes et nous nous connaissons comme si nous nous étions vus cent fois. Ce qui me plaît en lui c'est qu'il ne donne dans aucun poncif et je le crois humain. - Gambetta (since you ask my opinion of the aforementioned gentleman) struck me, at first glance, as grotesque, then reasonable, then agreeable, and finally charming (the word is not too strong); we spoke alone for twenty minutes and we know each other as if we had met a hundred times. What I like about him is that he doesn't resort to any clichés, and I believe him to be humane. - Gustave Flaubert to Mrs Roger des Genettes (1 March 1878), quoted in Gustave Flaubert, Correspondance Quatrième Série (1869–1880) (1893), p. 289 - W. E. G. speaking of Gambetta said he belonged to that class of Liberals whose creed had nothing whatever to do with liberty, but only consisted of a war ag. everything that existed: the older and better established, the greater reason for its being uprooted. - Mary Gladstone, diary entry (31 May 1882), quoted in Mary Gladstone (Mrs. Drew): Her Diaries and Letters, ed. Lucy Masterman (1930), p. 253 - Gambetta was autoritaire; I do not feel as if he were a true liberal in the old and best sense. I cannot forget how hostile he was to the movement for freedom in the Balkans. - William Ewart Gladstone, remarks to John Morley (17 December 1891), quoted in John Morley, The Life of William Ewart Gladstone, Vol. III (1903), p. 465 - All Bismarck's anxieties so far as Gambetta was concerned came suddenly to an end with the unexpected death of the French politician at the end of the year 1883. Lord Ampthill reported that the tone of the Berlin Press, “official and officious” was “kind, tactful and appreciative, and calculated to give no offence to France.” In contrast to this attitude of the Press, public feeling was relieved at the death of one whose name had become identified with the “war of revenge.” This contrast was shown in the reactions of the Emperor and Bismarck. On receiving the army deputation on New Year’s Day the Emperor said, “Gentlemen, I have good news to give you on the commencement of the New Year. Gambetta is dead, and with him the threatened war of revenge. You can unsaddle your horses, and look forward to long peace.” But this speech displeased Bismarck. Officers were ordered not to repeat it, and the Press instructed to ignore it, friendly articles being sent to them instead. Bismarck realized, now that Gambetta was dead, that he stood for the stability of the republic, and who could tell whether his death might not mean a struggle for power of pretenders of every hue? - Winifred Taffs, Ambassador to Bismarck: Lord Odo Russell, First Baron Ampthill (1938), p. 359 - M. Gambetta, to whom I am giving this letter for you, is what we call in France a Republican. But he has more intellect and sound sense and true wisdom than many of the most enlightened Conservatives, and I only wish that most of the party leaders had as much. No one knows the inside of Paris better than he, or could give you fresher and more accurate news of it. - Adolphe Thiers to Prince Nicolas Bibesco (4 August 1868), quoted in Paul Deschanel, Gambetta (1920), pp. 19-20


--- [Léon Gambetta - NNDB] ---
| Léon Gambetta Born: 2-Apr-1838 Birthplace: Cahors, France Died: 31-Dec-1882 Location of death: Ville-d'Avray, France Cause of death: Accident - Misc Remains: Buried, Panthéon, Paris, France Gender: Male Race or Ethnicity: White Sexual orientation: Straight Occupation: Head of State, Government Nationality: France Executive summary: Consolidated democracy in France French statesman born at Cahors on the 2nd of April 1838. His father, a Genoese, who had established himself as a grocer and had married a Frenchwoman named Massabie, is said to have been his son's prototype in vigor and fluency of speech. In his sixteenth year young Gambetta lost by an accident the sight of his left eye, which eventually had to be removed. Notwithstanding this privation, he highly distinguished himself at the public school of Cahors, and in 1857 proceeded to Paris to study law. His southern vehemence gave him great influence among the students of the Quartier Latin, and he was soon known as an inveterate enemy of the imperial government. He was called to the bar in 1859, but, although contributing to a Liberal review, edited by Challemel Lacour, did not make much way until, on the 17th of November 1868, he was selected to defend the journalist Delescluze, prosecuted for having promoted the erection of a monument to the representative Baudin, who was killed in resisting the coup d'état of 1851. Gambetta seized his opportunity and assailed both the coup and the government with an eloquence of invective which made him immediately famous. In May 1869 he was returned to the Assembly, both by the first circumscription of Paris and by Marseilles, defeating Hippolyte Carnot for the former constituency and Adolphe Thiers and Ferdinand de Lesseps for the latter. He elected to sit for Marseilles, and lost no opportunity of attacking the Empire in the Assembly. He was at first opposed to the war with Germany, but when satisfied that it had been forced upon France he did not, like some of his colleagues, refuse to vote supplies, but took the patriotic line of supporting the flag. When the news of the disaster at Sedan reached Paris, Gambetta called for strong measures. He himself proclaimed the fall of the emperor at the corps législatif , and the establishment of a republic at the Hotel de Ville. He was one of the first members of the new government of national defense, becoming Minister of the Interior. He advised his colleagues to leave Paris and conduct the government from some provincial city. This advice was rejected from dread of another revolution in Paris, and a delegation to organize resistance in the provinces was despatched to Tours, but when this was seen to be inefficient Gambetta himself (7th October) quitted Paris in a balloon, and upon arriving at Tours took the supreme direction of affairs as Minister of the Interior and of War. Aided by M. de Freycinet, then a young officer of engineers, as his assistant secretary of war, he displayed prodigies of energy and intelligence. He speedily organized an army, which might possibly have effected the relief of Paris if Metz bad held out, but the surrender of Bazaine brought the army of the crown prince into the field, and success was impossible. After the defeats of the French near Orleans early in December the seat of government had to be transferred to Bordeaux, and when Paris surrendered at the end of January, Gambetta, though resisting and protesting, was compelled to submit to the capitulation concluded with Prince Bismarck. He immediately resigned his office. Elected by alne departments to the National Assembly meeting at Bordeaux (on the 1st of March 1871) he chose to sit for Strasbourg, which by the terms of the treaty about to be submitted to the Assembly for ratification was to be ceded to Prussia, and when the treaty was adopted he resigned in protest and retired to Spain. He returned to France in June, was elected by three departments in July, and commenced an agitation for the definitive establishment of the Republic. On the 5th of November 1871 he established a journal, La République Française, which soon became the most influential in France. His orations at public meetings were more effective than those delivered in the Assembly, especially that made at Bordeaux on his return, and that at Grenoble on the 26th of November 1872, in which he spoke of political power having passed to les nouvelles couches sociales. When Thiers, however, fell from power in May 1873, and a Royalist was placed at the head of the government in the person of Marshal MacMahon, Gambetta gave proof of his statesmanship by unceasingly urging his friends to a moderate course, and by his tact and parliamentary dexterity, no less than by his eloquence, he was mainly instrumental in the voting of the constitution in February 1875. This policy he continued during the early days of the now consolidated Republic, and gave it the appropriate name of "opportunism." It was not until the 4th of May 1877, when the peril from reactionary intrigues was notorious, and the clerical party had begun a campaign for the restoration of the temporal power of the Pope, that he delivered his famous speech denouncing "clericalism" as the "enemy." On the 16th of May Marshal MacMahon, in order to support the clerical reactionaries, perpetrated his parliamentary coup d'état, and on the 15th of August Gambetta, in a speech at Lille, gave him the alternative se soumettre ou se démettre. He then undertook a political campaign to rouse the republican party throughout France, which culminated in a speech at Romans (September 18, 1878) formulating its program. MacMahon, equally unwilling to resign or to provoke civil war, had no choice but to dismiss his advisers and form a moderate republican ministry under the premiership of Dufaure. When the resignation of the Dufaure cabinet brought about the abdication of Marshal MacMahon, Gambetta declined to become a candidate for the presidency, but gave his support to Grévy; nor did he attempt to form a ministry, but accepted the office of president of the chamber of deputies (January 1879). This position, which he filled with much ability, did not prevent his occasionally descending from the presidential chair to make speeches, one of which, advocating an amnesty to the communards, was especially memorable. Although he really directed the policy of the various ministries, he evidently thought that the time was not ripe for asserting openly his own claims to direct the policy of the Republic, and seemed inclined to observe a neutral attitude as far as possible; but events hurried him on, and early in 1881 he placed himself at the head of a movement for restoring scrutin de liste, or the system by which deputies are returned by the entire department which they represent, so that each elector votes for several representatives at once, in place of scrutin d'arrondissement, the system of small constituencies, giving one member to each district and one vote to each elector. A bill to re-establish scrutin de liste was passed by the Assembly on 19th May 1881, but rejected by the Senate on the 19th of June. But this personal rebuff could not alter the fact that in the country his was the name which was on the lips of the voters at the election. His supporters were in a large majority, and on the reassembling of the chamber, the Ferry cabinet quickly resigned. Gambetta was unwillingly entrusted by Grévy on the 14th of November 1881 with the formation of a ministry -- known as Le Grand Ministère. He now experienced the Nemesis of his over-cautious system of abstinence from office for fear of compromising his popularity. Every one suspected him of aiming at a dictatorship; attacks, not the less formidable for their injustice, were directed against him from all sides, and his cabinet fell on the 26th of January 1882, after an existence of only sixty-six days. Had he remained in office his declarations leave no doubt that he would have cultivated the British alliance and cooperated with Great Britain in Egypt; and when the Freycinet administration, which succeeded, shrank from that enterprise only to see it undertaken with signal success by England alone, Gambetta's foresight was quickly justified. His fortunes were presenting a most interesting problem when, on the 31st of December 1882, at his house in Ville d'Avray, near Sèvres, he died by a shot from a revolver which accidentally went off. Then all France awoke to a sense of her obligation to him, and his public funeral on the 6th of January 1883 evoked one of the most overwhelming displays of national sentiment ever witnessed on a similar occasion. Gambetta rendered France three inestimable services: by preserving her self-respect through the gallantry of the resistance he organized during the German War, by his tact in persuading extreme partisans to accept a moderate Republic, and by his energy in overcoming the usurpation attempted by the advisers of Marshal MacMahon. His death, at the early age of forty-four, cut short a career which had given promise of still greater things, for he had real statesmanship in his conceptions of the future of his country, and he had an eloquence which would have been potent in the education of his supporters. The romance of his life was his connection with Léonie Léon (d. 1906), the full details of which were not known to the public until her death. This lady, with whom Gambetta fell in love in 1871, was the daughter of a French artillery officer. She became his mistress, and the liaison lasted till he died. Gambetta himself constantly urged her to marry him during this period, but she always refused, fearing to compromise his career; she remained, however, his confidante and intimate adviser in all his political plans. It is understood that at last she had just consented to become his wife, and the date of the marriage had been fixed, when the accident which caused his death occurred in her presence. Contradictory accounts have indeed been given as to this fatal episode, but that it was accidental, and not suicide, is certain. On Gambetta the influence of Léonie was absorbing, both as lover and as politician, and the correspondence which has been published shows how much he depended upon her. But in various matters of detail the serious student of political history must be cautious in accepting her later recollections, some of which have been embodied in the writings of M. Francis Laur, such as that an actual interview took place in 1878 between Gambetta and Bismarck. That Gambetta after 1875 felt strongly that the relations between France and Germany might he improved, and that he made it his object, by travelling incognito, to become better acquainted with Germany and the adjoining states, may be accepted, but M. Laur appears to have exaggerated the extent to which any actual negotiations took place. On the other hand, the increased knowledge of Gambetta's attitude towards European politics which later information has supplied confirms the view that in him France lost prematurely a master mind, whom she could ill spare. In April 1905 a monument by Dalou to his memory at Bordeaux was unveiled by President Loubet. Mistress: Léonie Léon (d. 1906) Prime Minister of France (14-Nov-1881 to 30-Jan-1882) Missing Eye Copyright ©2026 |


--- [Léon Gambetta (1838 - 1882) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Historical records matching Léon Gambetta Immediate Family - wife - partner - mother - sister - stepdaughter About Léon Gambetta https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A9on_Gambetta Léon Gambetta (French: [le%C9%94%CC%83 ɡɑ̃bɛta]; 2 April 1838 – 31 December 1882) was a French statesman, prominent during and after the Franco-Prussian War. Youth and education Born at Cahors, Gambetta is said to have inherited his vigour and eloquence from his father, a Genoese grocer who had married a Frenchwoman named Massabie. At the age of fifteen, Gambetta lost the sight of his right eye in an accident, and it eventually had to be removed. Despite this handicap, he distinguished himself at school in Cahors, and in 1857 went to Paris to study law. His temperament gave him great influence among the students of the Quartier latin, and he was soon known as an inveterate enemy of the imperial government. Career Gambetta was called to the bar in 1859. However, although he contributed to a Liberal review edited by Challemel-Lacour, Gambetta did not make much of an impression until, on 17 November 1868, he was selected to defend the journalist Delescluze. Delescluze was being prosecuted for having promoted a monument to the representative Baudin, who had been killed while resisting the coup d'état of 1851, and Gambetta seized his opportunity to attack both the coup d'état and the government with a vigour which made him immediately famous. In May 1869, he was elected to the Assembly, both by a district in Paris and another in Marseille, defeating Hippolyte Carnot for the former constituency and Adolphe Thiers and Ferdinand de Lesseps for the latter. He chose to sit for Marseille, and lost no opportunity of attacking the Empire in the Assembly. Early in his political career, Gambetta was influenced by Le Programme de Belleville, the seventeen statutes that defined the radical program in French politics throughout the Third Republic. This made him the leading defender of the lower classes in the Corps Législatif. On 17 January 1870, he spoke out against naming a new Imperial Lord Privy Seal, putting him into direct conflict with the regime's de facto prime minister, Emile Ollivier. (see Reinach, J., Discours et plaidoyers politiques de M. Gambetta, I.102 – 113) His powerful oratory caused a complete breakdown of order in the Corps. The Monarchist Right continually tried to interrupt his speech, only to have Gambetta's supporters on the Left attack them. The disagreement reached a high point when M. le Président Schneider asked him to bring his supporters back into order. Gambetta responded, thundering, "l'indignation exclut le calme!" ("indignation excludes calm!") (Reinach, Discours et plaidoyers politiques de M. Gambetta, I.112) At first Gambetta was opposed to the war with Prussia. He did not, like some of his colleagues, refuse to vote for funds for the army, but took a patriotic line and accepted that the war had been forced on France. When the news of the disaster at Sedan reached Paris, Gambetta called for strong measures. He proclaimed the deposition of the emperor at the corps législatif, and the establishment of a republic at the Hôtel de Ville. He was one of the first members of the new Government of National Defense, becoming Minister of the Interior. He advised his colleagues to leave Paris and run the government from some provincial city. This advice was rejected because of fear of another revolution in Paris, and a delegation to organize resistance in the provinces was dispatched to Tours, but when this was seen to be ineffective, Gambetta himself left Paris 7 October in a hot air balloon—the "Armand-Barbès"—and upon arriving at Tours took control as minister of the interior and of war. Aided by Freycinet, a young officer of engineers, as his assistant secretary of war, he displayed prodigious energy and intelligence. He quickly organized an army, which might have relieved Paris if Metz had held out, but Bazaine's surrender brought the army of the Prussian crown prince into the field, and success was impossible. After the French defeat near Orléans early in December the seat of government was transferred to Bordeaux. Self-exile to San Sebastián Gambetta had hoped for a republican majority in the general elections on 8 February 1871. These hopes vanished when the conservatives and Monarchists won nearly 2/3 of the six hundred Assembly seats. He had won elections in eight different départements, but the ultimate victor was the Orléanist Adolphe Thiers, winner of twenty-three elections. Thiers's conservative and bourgeois intentions clashed with the growing expectations of political power by the lower classes. Hoping to continue his policy of "guerre à outrance" against the Prussian invaders, he tried in vain to rally the Assembly to the war cause. However, Thiers' peace treaty on 1 March 1871 ended the conflict. Gambetta, disgusted with the Assembly's unwillingness to fight resigned and quit France for San Sebastián in Spain. While in San Sebastián, Gambetta walked the beaches daily, the warm sea winds of early spring doing little to refresh his mind. Meanwhile, the Paris Commune had taken control of the city. Despite his earlier career, Gambetta voiced his opposition to the Commune in a letter to Antonin Proust, his former secretary while Minister of the Interior, in which he referred to the Commune as "les horribles aventures dans lesquelles s’engage ce qui reste de cette malheureuse France." Gambetta's stance has been explained by reference to his status as a republican lawyer, who fought from the bar instead of the barricade and also to his father having been a grocer in Marseille. As a small-scale producer during the decades of the Second Industrial Revolution in France, Joseph Gambetta had chain groceries taking business away from his establishment. This added a measure of resentment to the "petit bourgeois" identity. This resentment was not only directed at bourgeois industrial capitalism, but also at the worker, who was now proclaimed as the backbone of the French economy, stripping the title from the small, independent shopkeeper. This resentment may have been passed down from father to son, and manifested itself in an unwillingness to support the lower-class Communards usurpation of what rightfully belonged to the "petite bourgeoisie." Return On 24 June 1871, a letter was sent by Gambetta to his Parisian confidant, Dr. Édouard Fieuzal: Je veux déjouer l’intrigue de parti de ceux qui vont répétant que je refuse toute candidature à Paris. Non. J’accepte au contraire avec fierté et reconnaissance les suffrages de la démocratie Parisienne si elle veut m’honorer de son choix. Je suis prêt. I want to thwart the party intrigues of those spreading the rumor that I am refusing to stand for election in Paris. No. I accept, to the contrary, with pride and gratitude the Parisians' votes, if they would do me the honor of choosing me. I am prepared. (Lettres de Gambetta, no. 122) Gambetta returned to the political stage and won on three separate ballots. On 5 November 1871 he established a journal, La Republique française, which soon became the most influential in France. His orations at public meetings were more effective than those delivered in the Assembly, especially the one at Bordeaux. His turn towards moderate republicanism first became apparent in Firminy, a small coal-mining town along the Loire River. There, he boldly proclaimed the radical republic he once supported to be "avoided as a plague" (se tenir éloignés comme de la peste) (Discours, III.5). From there, he went to Grenoble. On 26 September 1872, he proclaimed the future of the Republic to be in the hands of "a new social level" (une couche sociale nouvelle) (Discours, III.101), ostensibly the petite bourgeoisie to whom his father belonged. When Adolphe Thiers resigned in May 1873, and a Royalist, Marshal MacMahon, was placed at the head of the government, Gambetta urged his friends to a moderate course. By his tact, parliamentary dexterity and eloquence, he was instrumental in voting in the French Constitutional Laws of 1875 in February 1875. He gave this policy the appropriate name of "opportunism," and became one of the leader of the "Opportunist Republicans." On 4 May 1877, he denounced "clericalism" as the enemy. During the 16 May 1877 crisis, Gambetta, in a speech at Lille on 15 August called on President MacMahon se soumettre ou se démettre, to submit to parliament's majority or to resign. Gambetta then campaigned to rouse the republican party throughout France, which culminated in a speech at Romans (18 September 1878) formulating its programme. MacMahon, unwilling to resign or to provoke civil war, had no choice but to dismiss his advisers and form a moderate republican ministry under the premiership of Dufaure. When the downfall of the Dufaure cabinet brought about MacMahon's resignation, Gambetta declined to become a candidate for the presidency, but supported Jules Grévy; nor did he attempt to form a ministry, but accepted the office of president of the chamber of deputies in January 1879. This position did not prevent his occasionally descending from the presidential chair to make speeches, one of which, advocating an amnesty to the communards, was especially memorable. Although he directed the policy of the various ministries from behind the scenes, he evidently thought that the time was not ripe for asserting openly his direction of the policy of the Republic, and seemed inclined to observe a neutral attitude as far as possible. However, events hurried him on, and early in 1881 he headed off a movement for restoring scrutin de liste, or the system by which deputies are returned by the entire department which they represent, so that each elector votes for several representatives at once, in place of scrutin d'arrondissement, the system of small constituencies, giving one member to each district and one vote to each elector. A bill to re-establish scrutin de liste was passed by the Assembly on 19 May 1881, but rejected by the Senate on 19 June. This personal rebuff could not alter the fact that his name was on the lips of voters at the election. His supporters won a large majority, and Jules Ferry's cabinet quickly resigned. Gambetta was unwillingly asked by Grévy on 24 November 1881 to form a ministry, known as Le Grand Ministère. Many suspected him of desiring a dictatorship; unjust attacks were directed against him from all sides, and his cabinet fell on 26 January 1882, after only sixty-six days. Had he remained in office, he would have cultivated the British alliance and cooperated with Britain in Egypt; and when the succeeding Freycinet government shrank from that enterprise only to see it undertaken with signal success by Britain alone, Gambetta's foresight was quickly justified. On 31 December 1882, at his house in Ville d'Avray, near Sèvres, he died from intestine or stomach cancer. Even though he was wounded a month earlier from an accidental revolver discharge, the injury had not been life-threatening. Five artists, Jules Bastien-Lepage, a realist painter, Antonin Proust, defensor of the vanguard who Gambetta had named Minister of Beaux-Arts, Léon Bonnat, an academic painter, Alexandre Falguière, who did his mortuary mask, and his personal photographer Étienne Carjat all sat at his death-bed, making five widely different representations of him which were each published by the press the following day. His public funeral on 6 January 1883 evoked one of the most overwhelming displays of national sentiment ever witnessed. Gambetta rendered France three inestimable services: by preserving her self-respect through the gallantry of the resistance he organized during the Franco-Prussian War, by his tact in persuading extreme partisans to accept a moderate Republic, and by his energy in overcoming the usurpation attempted by the advisers of Marshal MacMahon. His death at forty-four cut short a career which had given promise of still greater things, for he had real statesmanship in his conceptions of the future of his country, and he had an eloquence which would have been potent in the education of his supporters. Personal life The romance of his life was his connection with Léonie Léon, the full details of which were not known to the public till her death in 1906. She was the daughter of a creole French artillery officer. Gambetta fell in love with her in 1871. She became his mistress, and the liaison lasted until he died. Gambetta constantly urged her to marry him during this period, but she always refused, fearing to compromise his career; she remained, however, his confidante and intimate adviser in all his political plans. It seems she had just consented to become his wife, and the date of the marriage had been fixed, when the accident which caused his death occurred in her presence. Contradictory accounts of this fatal episode exist, but it was certainly accidental, and not suicide. Her influence on Gambetta was absorbing, both as lover and as politician, and the correspondence which has been published shows how much he depended upon her. However, some of her later recollections are untrustworthy. For example, she claimed that an actual interview took place in 1878 between Gambetta and Bismarck. That Gambetta after 1875 felt strongly that the relations between France and Germany might be improved, and that he made it his object, by travelling incognito, to become better acquainted with Germany and the adjoining states, may be accepted, but M. Laur appears to have exaggerated the extent to which any actual negotiations took place. On the other hand, the increased knowledge of Gambetta's attitude towards European politics which later information has supplied confirms the view that in him France lost prematurely a master mind, whom she could ill spare. In April 1905 a monument by Dalou to his memory at Bordeaux was unveiled by President Loubet. - Reference: Geneanet Genealogy - SmartCopy: Jun 26 2022, 15:38:09 UTC About Léon Gambetta (Français) Léon Gambetta, né le 2 avril 1838 à Cahors et mort le 31 décembre 1882 à Sèvres, est un homme d’État français. Membre du gouvernement de la Défense nationale en 1870 puis chef de l'opposition, il est l'une des personnalités politiques les plus importantes des premières années de la Troisième République et joue un rôle clé dans la pérennité du régime républicain en France après la chute du Second Empire. C'est notamment lui qui, le 4 septembre 1870, proclame le retour de la République. Il est président de la Chambre des députés de 1879 à 1881, puis président du Conseil et ministre des Affaires étrangères pendant deux mois, entre 1881 et 1882. Biographie Origines et formation Né le 2 avril 1838 à Cahors, Léon Michel Gambetta est issu d'une famille de commerçants aisés et son grand-père paternel Michel est originaire de Ligurie (États sardes de terre-ferme du royaume de Sardaigne, dit royaume de Piémont-Sardaigne). Il épouse Benedetta Galeano et tient une épicerie, le Bazar génois. L'épicerie est reprise et développée par son fils Jean Baptiste, qui épouse une fille de pharmacien, Marie-Magdelaine Massabie : ils sont les parents de Léon. Prénommé « Jean Baptiste » lors de son mariage avec Marie-Magdelaine Massabie, c'est sous le prénom de « Joseph Nicolas » qu'il déclare la naissance de « Léon Michel . Inscrit par son père au petit séminaire de Montfaucon quelques jours avant la rentrée de 1848, il est admis le 7 novembre comme interne en 7e. Malgré un comportement turbulent, ses maîtres remarquent ses qualités lors des deux années de scolarité à Montfaucon : « Conduite : dissipé. Application : médiocre. Caractère : très bon, très léger, enjoué, espiègle. Talent : remarquable, intelligence très développée ». Pendant les vacances scolaires de 1848, il est victime d’un accident en regardant travailler un ouvrier-coutelier, un éclat d'acier lui faisant perdre l'usage de son œil droit. Il sera énucléé avec succès en 1867 par le docteur Louis de Wecker. Il poursuit ses études au lycée de Cahors et obtient le baccalauréat ès lettres. Il s’inscrit ensuite à la faculté de droit de Paris, en 1857. Ayant demandé et obtenu sa naturalisation8 en 1859, il passe avec succès sa licence en 1860 et devient avocat. Il fréquente alors les milieux républicains qui se réunissent dans le Quartier latin au café Voltaire. Opposant au Second Empire Portrait carte-de-visite de Léon Gambetta par Légé : borgne avec un œil de verre, il se fit toujours représenter de profil gauche. En tant que jeune avocat, il est accepté à la Conférence Molé. Il devient le collaborateur d’Adolphe Crémieux et se lie avec Clément Laurier et Jules Ferry. Il se rapproche également des députés de l’opposition : Jules Favre, Émile Ollivier, Ernest Picard, Alfred Darimon et Louis Hénon. Il participe à la campagne électorale de 1863 et approuve le discours de Thiers sur les « libertés nécessaires ». Il devient l’ami d'Eugène Spuller et d’Arthur Ranc, fréquente Allain-Targé et Challemel-Lacour10 et le salon de Juliette Adam, cercle d'opposition républicaine. En 1868, le procès de Charles Delescluze le fait connaître. Ce journaliste républicain, opposant au Second Empire est inculpé, avec d'autres personnalités (Alphonse Peyrat notamment), pour avoir ouvert une souscription publique dans son journal afin d’ériger un monument à la mémoire de Jean-Baptiste Baudin, député de la Deuxième République, mort le 3 décembre 1851, en s’opposant aux côtés des ouvriers au coup d'État de Napoléon III. Chargé de la défense de Charles Delescluze, Gambetta prononce une plaidoirie politique dans laquelle il critique le régime impérial et le coup d'État du 2 décembre. Delescluze est condamné à six mois de prison et 2 000 francs d’amende, mais l'impact politique du discours érige Gambetta en espoir du parti républicain. Député À l’occasion des élections législatives de 1869, Gambetta décide de se présenter dans la première circonscription de la Seine, dont le centre est le quartier populaire de Belleville, habité par des commerçants, des artisans et des ouvriers de petites entreprises. Le programme électoral, connu sous le nom de « Programme de Belleville » est rédigé par le comité républicain de Belleville. De tonalité assez radicale, il réclame l’extension des libertés publiques, la séparation des Églises et de l’État, l’élection des fonctionnaires, la suppression des armées permanentes et des réformes économiques. Il accepte également de se présenter à Marseille. À la même époque, en mai 1869, il est initié franc-maçon à la loge « La Réforme » au Grand Orient de France à Marseille12, à laquelle appartiennent également Gustave Naquet et Maurice Rouvier. Les 23 et 24 mai suivants, Léon Gambetta est élu à Paris dès le premier tour devançant largement Hippolyte Carnot. À Marseille, il est en ballotage favorable devant Adolphe Thiers qui se désiste. Il l'emporte au second tour face à Ferdinand de Lesseps13, et choisit de représenter Marseille comme député. À la Chambre, il s’oppose à Émile Ollivier14. Son discours critique du 5 avril 1870 contre le sénatus-consulte soumis au plébiscite trouve un large écho parmi les opposants du régime15. Alors que Napoléon III déclare la guerre, Gambetta vote les crédits de guerre le 15 juillet 187016. Gouvernement de la Défense nationale Articles détaillés : Gouvernement de la Défense nationale et Guerre franco-allemande de 1870. Gambetta et les autres membres du gouvernement de la Défense nationale. Au cours de la journée révolutionnaire du 4 septembre 1870 qui fait suite à l'annonce, à Paris, de la défaite de Sedan et de la capture de l'Empereur, Gambetta et Jules Favre jouent un rôle essentiel dans la déchéance de l'Empire et la proclamation de la République. Des membres de l'opposition s'emparent du pouvoir et se distribuent les ministères d'un gouvernement de la Défense nationale autoproclamé. Ce gouvernement provisoire, non représentatif car composé exclusivement d'une dizaine de députés républicains de Paris, est formé moins de quatre mois seulement après un plébiscite favorable à l'Empire et que Jules Favre s'est exclamé : « il n'y a plus rien à faire en politique ». Il est présidé par le général Trochu, gouverneur militaire de la capitale. Gambetta s'arroge le ministère de l’Intérieur. Alors que le pays est envahi, il n'hésite pas à révoquer les préfets du Second Empire et à nommer à leur place des militants républicains, avocats ou journalistes, sans expérience pour de tels postes. La situation militaire continue de se dégrader. Paris et la plupart des membres du gouvernement provisoire sont encerclés le 19 septembre 1870. Tableau de Jules Didier et Jacques Guiaud représentant le départ de Léon Gambetta de Paris le 7 octobre 1870 à bord d'un ballon monté (musée Carnavalet). Au préalable, Adolphe Crémieux, ministre de la Justice, l'amiral Fourichon, ministre de la Marine et Glais-Bizoin, ministre sans portefeuille, ont été envoyés à Tours, où ils forment une délégation chargée de relayer l'action du gouvernement en province. La Délégation manque d'autorité alors qu'il faut organiser la guerre en province et lutter contre les mouvements communalistes, notamment dans le Sud-Est. Il apparaît donc qu'une personnalité plus forte est nécessaire à Tours. Gambetta, d'abord réticent, est sollicité par ses collègues ministres et le 7 octobre, il quitte Paris en ballon, accompagné de Spuller. Victor Hugo, qui a assisté à ce départ, en livre un témoignage oculaire dans Choses vues. Gambetta arrive à Tours le 9 où il rejoint ses trois collègues. La Délégation assure collectivement les responsabilités, mais le Gouvernement a accordé à Gambetta une voix prédominante en cas de partage des voix. Gambetta s’approprie alors la fonction de ministre de la Guerre, qu’il cumule avec le ministère de l’Intérieur. Il réorganise l'administration, s'entoure d'hommes de confiance comme Clément Laurier, Arthur Ranc, Jules Cazot, Eugène Spuller et surtout Charles de Freycinet qu'il nomme « délégué du ministre auprès du département de la Guerre » le 11 octobre. Gambetta doit également faire face à l’agitation de républicains radicaux dans certaines villes, comme Lyon, Marseille et Toulouse. Dans le rapport confié à Charles d’Almeida par le gouvernement de la Défense nationale, dont l’objet était d’établir des communications entre la province et Paris, Charles d'Almeida décrit l'accueil bienveillant et cordial de Gambetta qui lui fit la promesse d'appuyer son projet. Sur le plan militaire, Gambetta essaie d'organiser les armées de secours et intervient dans la nomination des commandants en chef. Mais se méfiant des officiers généraux, il ne nomme pas de chef d'état-major général, laissant Freycinet assurer sans compétences appropriées la coordination des armées. Malgré l'échec de l'armée de la Loire, les difficultés de communication avec Paris et les discussions sur l'armistice, Gambetta est partisan d'une « guerre à outrance ». Devant l’avancée de l’armée prussienne et la perte d'Orléans, la Délégation doit quitter Tours et s’installe à Bordeaux, le 9 décembre 1870. Les efforts de l'Armée du Nord et de l'armée de l'Est ne permettent pas de rompre le blocus de la capitale. Paris étant à court de vivres et bombardé depuis le 5 janvier, Jules Favre signe, pour le gouvernement provisoire, un armistice de vingt-et-un jours avec Bismarck, le 29 janvier. Gambetta s'élève contre les conditions imposées par Bismarck d'abandon d'une partie du territoire. Il fixe néanmoins la date des élections au 6 février, mais en posant des conditions d'inéligibilité aux personnels de l'ancien Empire, ce à quoi le gouvernement parisien ne peut consentir. Le 1er février, un membre du gouvernement provisoire, Jules Simon, est envoyé à Bordeaux avec les pleins pouvoirs. Relevé de ses fonctions de ministre de l'Intérieur, mais conservant le poste de ministre de la Guerre par délégation, Gambetta hésite sur la conduite à tenir jusqu'à l'arrivée de trois autres membres du gouvernement : Garnier-Pagès, Pelletan et Arago. Il démissionne, le 6 février 1871. Selon ce qu'écrivent, en 1914, les auteurs — membres de l'Action française — de l'ouvrage Gambetta et la défense nationale (chapitre 18), après la guerre, l'action de Gambetta est jugée sévèrement par certains de ses contemporains. « Nous avons bien le droit de maudire celui qui s'est présenté comme capable de nous mener à la victoire et qui ne nous a menés qu'au désespoir. Nous avions le droit de lui demander un peu de génie, il n'a même pas eu de bon sens », écrit George Sand dans le Journal d'un voyageur pendant la guerre. Le général Trochu lui reproche « d'avoir voulu faire prédominer ses passions politiques dans les questions où elles n'auraient pas dû trouver place, par exemple dans la défense du pays réduit aux dernières extrémités ». Thiers affirme que, si l'on n'avait pas prolongé la guerre, « nous aurions moins perdu en territoire et moins donné en indemnité de guerre ». Il poursuit, le 8 juin 1871, devant l'Assemblée nationale : « Ils se sont trompés, gravement trompés : ils ont prolongé la défense au-delà de toute raison ; ils ont employé [...] les moyens les plus mal conçus qu'on ait employés à aucune époque, dans aucune guerre [...] Nous étions tous révoltés, je l'étais comme vous tous contre cette politique de fous furieux qui mettaient la France dans le plus grand péril ». L'Assemblée nationale, le 13 juin 1871, ordonne une enquête parlementaire sur les actes du gouvernement de la Défense nationale. Instauration de la IIIe République Aux élections de l'Assemblée nationale le 8 février 1871, Gambetta est élu dans 9 départements et opte pour le Bas-Rhin. Il s'associe le 16 février à la protestation des élus de l'Alsace et la Lorraine et démissionne de son mandat du Bas-Rhin. Fatigué physiquement et moralement, il s'éloigne quelque temps de la vie politique et gagne l'Espagne le 10 mars. Il est à l'étranger pendant les événements de la Commune. De retour en France en juin, il est réélu comme député le 2 juillet 1871 aux élections complémentaires dans la Seine (pour laquelle il opte), le Var et les Bouches-du-Rhône. Leader de l'Union républicaine, Gambetta contribue, par ses voyages en province et ses discours, à faire accepter la République. Le 7 novembre, il fonde avec quelques amis son journal La République française. Il prône la dissolution d'une Assemblée à coloration monarchique élue pour mettre un terme à la guerre et milite pour l'élection d'une véritable Assemblée constituante. Il soutient ainsi la candidature radicale de Barodet pour le département de la Seine le 27 avril 1873. Légaliste malgré tout et inquiet des tentatives de Restauration monarchique, il prend ses distances avec la gauche radicale et se rapproche du Centre gauche de Thiers après que ce dernier a été mis en minorité par la droite de l'Assemblée. Il fait accepter par les groupes de la gauche républicaine le compromis des Lois constitutionnelles. L'élection pour la nouvelle Assemblée législative a lieu les 20 février et 5 mars 1876. Gambetta participe largement au net succès des républicains par ses nombreux déplacements et discours, et lui-même est élu dès le premier tour à Paris (20e arrondissement pour lequel il opte), Lille, Marseille et Bordeaux. République opportuniste La crise du 16 mai 1877 : tel un diable à ressort, Gambetta jaillit d'une boîte à surprise devant le président de la République Patrice de Mac Mahon, maréchal dont les opinions monarchistes sont symbolisées par la fleur de lys. Surmonté d'un bonnet phrygien et du chiffre évoquant les 363 députés républicains, un nuage darde des éclairs sur le président tandis que le représentant de la majorité républicaine à la Chambre des députés prononce la péroraison de son discours lillois du 15 août 1877 : « Se soumettre ou se démettre ». Caricature de Jean Robert, carte postale d'époque. Au lendemain des élections, Gambetta devient le principal leader de l’opposition et accède à la présidence de l'importante commission du budget. Une première crise éclate en décembre 1876 entre la majorité de l'Assemblée et le président de la République Mac Mahon à propos de la loi d'amnistie sur les événements de la Commune, entraînant la démission du cabinet Dufaure et la désignation de Jules Simon comme président du Conseil. Simon qui vient du Centre gauche obtient la majorité à l'Assemblée. La crise rebondit en mai 1877 à l'initiative des évêques catholiques qui exhortent les pouvoirs publics à intervenir en faveur du Pape qui se considère prisonnier du royaume d'Italie. Estimant que Jules Simon manque de fermeté dans cette affaire, Gambetta intervient le 4 mai à la Chambre contre les doctrines ultramontaines et termine son discours en reprenant la célèbre formule due à Alphonse Peyrat : « Le cléricalisme ? Voilà l'ennemi »27,28. Le 16 mai, Jules Simon remet sa démission au président de la République, qui la lui a demandée. Ce dernier demande au duc de Broglie de former le nouveau gouvernement et proroge le Parlement pour une période d'un mois. La dissolution de la Chambre est décidée par Mac-Mahon après avis favorable du Sénat. La campagne est féroce, le gouvernement déplaçant de nombreux préfets et fonctionnaires. Le 15 août, Gambetta, dans le discours de Lille, prononce la phrase célèbre : « Quand la France aura fait entendre sa voix souveraine, croyez-le bien Messieurs, il faudra se soumettre ou se démettre. » Gambetta envisage la démission de Mac-Mahon et de faire appel à Thiers pour lui succéder. Mais Adolphe Thiers meurt le 3 septembre, et c'est le nom de Jules Grévy qui s'y substitue. Les élections législatives du 21 et 28 octobre 1877 confirment la majorité des trois parties de l'Union républicaine (du Centre gauche aux Radicaux). Mac Mahon commence par se soumettre, au moins quelque temps, mais finit par démissionner en janvier 1879. Jules Grévy lui succède comme président de la République, avec le soutien de tous les républicains. Gambetta remplace Grévy à la présidence de la Chambre des députés. Gambetta siège avec ses amis de l’Union républicaine dans des commissions parlementaires importantes. Ses deux journaux, La République française et La Petite République française, diffusent les idées républicaines modérées. Il met en place ou fédère un réseau d’associations, de comités et de cercles30. Sa popularité provoque l’inquiétude de certains de ses alliés. Les ferrystes, les libéraux républicains et Jules Grévy s’inquiètent de ses tendances au pouvoir personnel. Les radicaux (Clemenceau) le trouvent trop modéré. À la présidence de la Chambre, il s’aliène une partie de la gauche sans arriver à rassurer la droite31. Grévy qui ne l'aime pas32, évite de faire appel à lui comme chef de gouvernement préférant successivement Waddington, Freycinet, puis Jules Ferry. La campagne pour les élections législatives d'août-septembre 1881 oppose essentiellement les radicaux aux républicains modérés. Le scrutin est remporté par l'Union républicaine de Gambetta (204 sièges), devant la Gauche républicaine de Jules Ferry, l'extrême-gauche radicale de Clemenceau (46 sièges) et le Centre gauche (39 sièges). Les conservateurs, monarchistes et bonapartistes n'en conservent plus que 90. Jules Ferry et les responsables de la Gauche républicaine décident de s’entendre avec lui. Gambetta doit entraîner à sa suite les hommes de l’Union républicaine et les détacher de l’extrême gauche. Après la chute du gouvernement Ferry sur l'Affaire tunisienne, Grévy n'a plus d'autre choix que d'appeler Gambetta aux affaires. « Grand ministère » Portrait de Léon Gambetta par Léon Bonnat (peint en 1888, soit six ans après sa mort34). Gambetta est nommé président du Conseil le 14 novembre 1881, décision qui rassure plus qu'elle n'effraie les financiers35, en raison de son expérience à la tête de la commission du Budget de l'Assemblée nationale. À l’origine, il souhaitait mettre en place un cabinet d’union républicaine, qui aurait rassemblé tous les grands chefs du mouvement, sauf les radicaux. En raison du refus de Léon Say, Freycinet et Ferry, il compose un cabinet Union républicaine, constitué de membres jeunes et relativement peu connus. Gambetta prend aussi le portefeuille des Affaires étrangères. Les autres ministres sont Cazot (Justice), Waldeck-Rousseau (Intérieur), Allain-Targé (Finances), Paul Bert (Instruction publique), Raynal (Travaux publics), Campenon (Guerre), Gougeard (Marine). L’Agriculture (Devès) est séparée du Commerce (Maurice Rouvier). Le secrétariat des Beaux-arts devient un ministère à part entière ; il est confié à Antonin Proust. Adolphe Cochery est nommé aux Postes et Télégraphes. Le gouvernement compte enfin neuf sous-secrétaires d’État, dont Eugène Spuller (Affaires étrangères) et Félix Faure (Commerce et Colonies)36. Le nouveau cabinet marque plusieurs innovations significatives. L’Agriculture devient un ministère à part entière. Les Colonies sont détachées de la Marine et rattachées au Commerce. La constitution d’un ministère des Arts est une nouveauté importante, destinée à répandre le goût de la culture et des arts dans les classes populaires. Elle marque la naissance d’une politique culturelle française ambitieuse et démocratique. Le gouvernement a plusieurs projets de réformes : réorganisation judiciaire, réduction du service militaire, loi sur les associations, création d’institutions de prévoyance et d’assistance, réforme des sociétés financières, développement de l’éducation nationale, réforme des rapports entre l’État et les Églises38. L’attitude autoritaire de Gambetta vis-à-vis de la Chambre blesse les parlementaires. La circulaire Waldeck-Rousseau aux préfets et la nomination de personnalités ralliées récemment à la République à des postes importants sont particulièrement critiquées. Cette circulaire visait à affranchir l’administration de la pression des députés. Considérée comme jacobine, elle est critiquée par les républicains libéraux. Le 14 janvier 1882, Gambetta dépose un projet de réforme constitutionnelle, qui propose de changer le mode de scrutin et de l’inscrire dans la Constitution. Il prévoit aussi d’élargir la base électorale du Sénat et de limiter ses pouvoirs financiers. Le projet est repoussé, certains républicains ayant voté avec les conservateurs. Le gouvernement tombe le 30 janvier 188240. L’échec de son gouvernement montre le refus, par la Chambre, d’un exécutif fort41. Déjà rongé par l'asthme et le diabète, il se retire alors dans sa maison des Jardies à Sèvres, en compagnie de sa maîtresse depuis 1872, Léonie Léon (1838-1906), fille d'un officier créole et ancienne maîtresse de Louis-Alphonse Hyrvoix, directeur de la police des résidences impériales42. Mort et obsèques Gravure antimaçonnique tentant d'accréditer la thèse de l'assassinat de Gambetta (illustration de Pierre Méjanel pour un ouvrage de Léo Taxil, 1886). Léon Gambetta meurt le 31 décembre 1882 dans sa maison des Jardies43, au 14 rue du Chemin Vert, des suites d'une pérityphlite (inflammation du péritoine du cæcum, découlant probablement d'un cancer de l'intestin ou de l'estomac) diagnostiquée dès le 23 décembre par le professeur Charcot et jugée inopérable44. Ses derniers jours sont relatés dans un compte-rendu médical très détaillé du docteur Lannelongue, ami personnel de Gambetta, puisque le 27 novembre il s'était blessé à la main et au bras en s'exerçant à tirer au revolver depuis sa bibliothèque sur une cible au fond du jardin (s'étant fait récemment ridiculiser à un duel au pistolet, il s'imposait cet entraînement) et se trouvait donc sous surveillance médicale constante. Cela n'empêche pas la presse des opposants de Gambetta (Léon Daudet, Henri Rochefort) d'accuser Léonie Léon d'avoir tiré sur son amant dans une crise de jalousie. Cette presse sous-entend aussi qu’il y a eu un complot maçonnique ou que Gambetta est accidentellement intervenu pour éviter une tentative de suicide au revolver de sa maîtresse à la suite d'une lettre qu'il avait reçue, révélant qu'elle était un agent des Henckel proches de Bismarck (comme le soupçonne la conseillère et égérie de Gambetta Juliette Adam). C'est également la thèse soutenue quarante ans plus tard par Léon Daudet dans son roman : Le Drame des Jardies. La blessure par balle n'était pas très grave, mais Gambetta souffrait depuis longtemps de sévères troubles gastriques et intestinaux. À l'âge de 11 ans déjà il avait failli mourir d'une péritonite48. Après une autopsie au cours de laquelle les amis de Léon Gambetta se partagent ses restes (sa tête, son cerveau, son bras droit, son intestin et son cœur), gardés comme reliques, Émile Baudiau utilise du chlorure de zinc pour embaumer le corps de Gambetta en l'injectant dans ses artères. Le 14 janvier 1883, Léon Gambetta est inhumé au cimetière du Château, à Nice, où sa famille s’était installée. Le 11 novembre 1920, pour le cinquantenaire de la proclamation de la Troisième République, son cœur est transféré au Panthéon. Il repose dans une urne placée dans l'escalier qui descend à la crypte. Le transfert de cette relique républicaine reproduit ainsi la tradition capétienne de la bipartition du corps (dilaceratio corporis, « division du corps » en cœur et ossements) avec deux sépultures. Léon Gambetta's Timeline | 1838 | April 2, 1838 | Cahors, Lot, Languedoc-Roussillon-Midi-Pyrénées, France | | | 1882 | December 31, 1882 Age 44 | Sèvres, Hauts-de-Seine, Île-de-France, France | | | 1883 | January 3, 1883 Age 44 | Nice, 06088, Alpes-Maritimes, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, France |
