=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mount Everest | Height, Map, Deaths, Facts, & Climbers | Britannica]
Feb 9, 2026 · A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 meters), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, obtained a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 meters) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods used.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/place/Mount-Everest

[Mount Everest is 8,848.86 metres tall: Nepal & China after ...]
A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, obtained a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in ...
URL: https://www.asianage.com/world/south-asia/081220/mount-everest-is-884886-metres-tall-nepal-china-after-remeasurement.html

[8,848.86 metres. That’s the height of Mt Everest now]
Dec 8, 2020 · A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, worked out a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods.
URL: https://kathmandupost.com/national/2020/12/08/it-s-official-mount-everest-is-8-848-86-metres-tall

[From The Hindu, July 28, 1975: Chinese theory on height of Everest]
Jul 27, 2025 · From The Hindu, July 28, 1975: The exact height of the world’s highest peak Mount Everest is 8,848.13 metres or 34 metres lower than the hitherto accepted figure said a team of Chinese...
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/archives/from-the-hindu-july-28-1975-chinese-theory-on-height-of-everest/article69861707.ece

[Nepal-China announced : Sagarmath's (Mount Everest) new height is 8,848 ...]
Dec 9, 2020 · A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, worked out a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods.
URL: https://nepalforeignaffairs.com/nepal-china-announced-sagarmaths-mount-everest-new-height-is-8848-86-metres/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mount Everest | Height, Map, Deaths, Facts, & Climbers | Britannica] ---
Mount Everest - Height: 29,032 feet (8,849 meters) - Significance: Highest mountain in the world - First confirmed ascent: 1953 (Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary) - Named after: George Everest - Local names: - Nepali: Sagarmatha (सगरमाथा, “Peak of Heaven”) - Tibetan: Chomolungma (ཇོ་མོ་གླང་མ, “Goddess Mother of the World” or “Goddess of the Valley”) - Chinese: Zhumulangma Feng (珠穆朗玛峰, Chinese rendering of Tibetan name) What is the height of Mount Everest? Who made the first solo ascent of Mount Everest? Where is Mount Everest located? Who was the first woman who climbed Mount Everest? What are other names for Mount Everest? News • Mount Everest, mountain on the crest of the Great Himalayas of southern Asia that lies on the border between Nepal and the Tibet Autonomous Region of China, at 27°59′ N 86°56′ E. Reaching an elevation of 29,032 feet (8,849 meters), Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. Like other high peaks in the region, Mount Everest has long been revered by local peoples. Its most common Tibetan name, Chomolungma, means “Goddess Mother of the World” or “Goddess of the Valley.” The Sanskrit name Sagarmatha means literally “Peak of Heaven.” Its identity as the highest point on the Earth’s surface was not recognized, however, until 1852, when the governmental Survey of India established that fact. In 1865 the mountain—previously referred to as Peak XV—was renamed for Sir George Everest, British surveyor general of India from 1830 to 1843. According to etymological sources, the mountain’s Western name is often mispronounced “Ever-est” or “Ev-rest,” despite the pronunciation of Sir George Everest’s surname being “EVE-rest.” Physical features Geology and relief The Himalayan ranges were thrust upward by tectonic action as the Indian-Australian Plate moved northward from the south and was subducted (forced downward) under the Eurasian Plate following the collision of the two plates between about 40 and 50 million years ago. The Himalayas themselves started rising about 25 to 30 million years ago, and the Great Himalayas began to take their present form during the Pleistocene Epoch (about 2,600,000 to 11,700 years ago). Everest and its surrounding peaks are part of a large mountain massif that forms a focal point, or knot, of this tectonic action in the Great Himalayas. Information from global positioning instruments in place on Everest since the late 1990s indicates that the mountain continues to move a few inches to the northeast and rise a fraction of an inch each year. According to etymological sources, the mountain’s Western name is often mispronounced “Ever-est” or “Ev-rest,” despite the pronunciation of Sir George Everest’s surname being “EVE-rest.” Everest is composed of multiple layers of rock folded back on themselves (nappes). Rock on the lower elevations of the mountain consists of metamorphic schists and gneisses, topped by igneous granites. Higher up are found sedimentary rocks of marine origin (remnants of the ancient floor of the Tethys Sea that closed after the collision of the two plates). Notable is the Yellow Band, a limestone formation that is prominently visible just below the summit pyramid. The barren Southeast, Northeast, and West ridges culminate in the Everest summit; a short distance away is the South Summit, a minor bump on the Southeast Ridge with an elevation of 28,700 feet (8,748 meters). The mountain can be seen directly from its northeastern side, where it rises about 12,000 feet (3,600 meters) above the Plateau of Tibet. The peak of Changtse (24,803 feet [7,560 meters]) rises to the north. Khumbutse (21,867 feet [6,665 meters]), Nuptse (25,791 feet [7,861 meters]), and Lhotse (27,940 feet [8,516 meters]) surround Everest’s base to the west and south. Everest is shaped like a three-sided pyramid. The three generally flat planes constituting the sides are called faces, and the line by which two faces join is known as a ridge. The North Face rises above Tibet and is bounded by the North Ridge (which meets the Northeast Ridge) and the West Ridge; key features of this side of the mountain include the Great and Hornbein couloirs (steep gullies) and the North Col at the start of the North Ridge. The Southwest Face rises above Nepal and is bounded by the West Ridge and the Southeast Ridge; notable features on this side include the South Col (at the start of the Southeast Ridge) and the Khumbu Icefall, the latter a jumble of large blocks of ice that has long been a daunting challenge for climbers. The East Face—or Kangshung (Kangxung) Face—also rises above Tibet and is bounded by the Southeast Ridge and the Northeast Ridge. The summit of Everest itself is covered by rock-hard snow surmounted by a layer of softer snow that fluctuates annually by some 5–20 feet (1.5–6 meters); the snow level is highest in September, after the monsoon, and lowest in May after having been depleted by the strong northwesterly winter winds. The summit and upper slopes sit so high in the Earth’s atmosphere that the amount of breathable oxygen there is one-third what it is at sea level. Lack of oxygen, powerful winds, and extremely cold temperatures preclude the development of any plant or animal life there. Drainage and climate Glaciers cover the slopes of Everest to its base. Individual glaciers flanking the mountain are the Kangshung Glacier to the east; the East, Central, and West Rongbuk (Rongpu) glaciers to the north and northwest; the Pumori Glacier to the northwest; and the Khumbu Glacier to the west and south, which is fed by the glacier bed of the Western Cwm, an enclosed valley of ice between Everest and the Lhotse-Nuptse Ridge to the south. Glacial action has been the primary force behind the heavy and continuous erosion of Everest and the other high Himalayan peaks. The mountain’s drainage pattern radiates to the southwest, north, and east. The Khumbu Glacier melts into the Lobujya (Lobuche) River of Nepal, which flows southward as the Imja River to its confluence with the Dudh Kosi River. In Tibet the Rong River originates from the Pumori and Rongbuk glaciers and the Kama River from the Kangshung Glacier: both flow into the Arun River, which cuts through the Himalayas into Nepal. The Rong, Dudh Kosi, and Kama river valleys form, respectively, the northern, southern, and eastern access routes to the summit. - Sanskrit and Nepali: - Sagarmatha - Tibetan: - Chomolungma - Chinese (Pinyin): - Zhumulangma Feng or - (Wade-Giles romanization): - Chu-mu-lang-ma Feng - Also spelled: - Qomolangma Feng The climate of Everest is always hostile to living things. The warmest average daytime temperature (in July) is only about −2 °F (−19 °C) on the summit; in January, the coldest month, summit temperatures average −33 °F (−36 °C) and can drop as low as −76 °F (−60 °C). Storms can come up suddenly, and temperatures can plummet unexpectedly. The peak of Everest is so high that it reaches the lower limit of the jet stream, and it can be buffeted by sustained winds of more than 100 miles (160 km) per hour. Precipitation falls as snow during the summer monsoon (late May to mid-September). The risk of frostbite to climbers on Everest is extremely high.


--- [Mount Everest is 8,848.86 metres tall: Nepal & China after ...] ---
Mount Everest is 8,848.86 metres tall: Nepal & China after remeasurement The revised height of Mt. Everest puts an end to the decades-long dispute between the two neighbours Kathmandu/Beijing: The world's highest peak is now taller by 86 centimetres, Nepal and China jointly announced on Tuesday after they remeasured Mt. Everest at 8,848.86 metres, over six decades after India conducted the previous measurement in 1954. The revised height of Mt. Everest puts an end to the decades-long dispute between the two neighbours on the height of the world's tallest mountain that straddles their shared border. The exact height of Mount Everest had been contested ever since a group of British surveyors in India declared the height of Peak XV, as it was initially called, to be 8,778 metres in 1847. Mt. Everest stands on the border between China and Nepal and mountaineers climb it from both sides. Mt. Everest known as Sagarmatha in Nepal while in China it is called as Mt. Qomolangma, the Tibetan name for the world's highest peak. The Nepal government decided to measure the exact height of the mountain as some geologists suggested that there might have been some changes due to various reasons, including the devastating earthquake of 2015. The 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed nearly 9,000 people in Nepal, and caused an avalanche which buried parts of the base camp at the mountain. Mt. Everest's revised height was officially announced by Nepalese and Chinese foreign ministers at a special virtual event. Nepal's Foreign Minister Pradeep Minister Gyawali and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi attended the virtual event, and read out the letters written by their respective heads-of-the-state Â- President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Chinese President Xi Jinping. "This is a historic day. The new height of Mt Everest is 8,848.86 metres," Gyawali said while making the much-awaited announcement. Speaking on the occasion, Gyawali and Wang expressed their satisfaction over the existing friendly and cooperative bilateral relations between the two countries. Wang too announced the mountain's height to be 8,848.86 metres immediately afterwards. The new height is 86 cms more than the previous measurement. According to the measurement done in 1954 by Survey of India, the height of Mount Everest is 8,848 metres. The widely accepted height of 8,848 metres or 29,028 feet was determined by the Survey of India in 1954 from Bihar using the trigonometric method. It was the third survey by India, The Kathmandu Post reported. A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, obtained a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods used, the report said. The joint survey is significant as China in 2018 differed with Nepal over the height of Mt. Everest and stuck to its calculations that the peak of the world's tallest mountain was four meters less than Kathmandu's measurement. In 2018 China said it has not changed its measurement of the height of Mt. Qomolangma. China recognises Mt. Qomolangma as the world's tallest, measuring 8,844.43 metres above sea level, the National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geo-information told the Xinhua News Agency in Feb 2018, in response to reports that China had agreed to accept Nepal's measurement of 8,848 metres. The measurement was significant as China and Nepal settled their border dispute in 1961 with the boundary line passing through the summit of Mt. Everest. The peak of Mt. Everest played a significant role in the settlement of the boundary between Nepal and China, after Beijing gave up its claims over the whole mountain as part of its territory after it took control of Tibet in 1950. The dispute was finally settled in 1961 after the intervention of the ruling Communist Party of China founder Mao Zedong, who suggested that the boundary line should pass through the summit of the Mt. Everest, which was agreed by Nepal. The latest survey puts both the countries on the same page about its height as Beijing seeks firm up its strategic ties with Nepal with huge investments in infrastructure projects, while enhancing its political influence over the Himalayan country. President Xi said in his letter that China and Nepal reached a consensus last year on the joint announcement of the new height of the peak. For more than a year, the two countries' survey teams have overcome all kinds of difficulties, solidly carried out their work, and finally reached a conclusion on the snow-covered height based on the International Height Reference System, he said. Describing Mt. Qomolangma "an important symbol of the China-Nepal traditional friendship," Xi said it is agreed by both countries as the boundary peak and the "Peak of China-Nepal Friendship," the Xinhua report said. He said the joint announcement of the new height of Mt. Qomolangma with his Nepali counterpart is of great significance in carrying forward the undertakings of the predecessors to the future, and showcasing the high level of the continuous development of China-Nepal relations. China is willing to join hands with Nepal to actively promote the cooperation in ecological and environmental protection and scientific research, and better safeguard the precious wealth and home of both peoples, Xi said.


--- [8,848.86 metres. That’s the height of Mt Everest now] ---
National 8,848.86 metres. That’s the height of Mt Everest now The new height announced jointly by Nepal and China puts an end to the one constantly asked question: How tall is the world’s highest mountain?Sangam Prasain 8,848.86 metres. That’s the new official height of Mount Everest Nepal announced on Tuesday. The new announcement puts an end to the decades-long debate on the height of the world’s tallest mountain. The precise height of Mount Everest had been contested ever since a group of British surveyors in India declared the height of Peak XV, as it was initially called, to be 8,778 metres in 1847. The new height was announced as per the joint measurement efforts by Nepal and China, the two countries the 8,848.86-metre mountain straddles. This new height converts to 29,031. 69 feet. The earlier accepted height was 8,848 metres or 29,028 feet. [Read: This is what it takes to get a foreigner to Everest] The official height was announced simultaneously in Kathmandu and Beijing amid a programme attended by Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. “This is a historic day,” Foreign Minister Gyawali said, making the much-awaited declaration on Tuesday. “The new height of Mt Everest is 8,848.86 metres.” Chinese Foreign Minister Wang too announced the mountain's height to be 8,848.86 metres immediately afterwards. Nepal had been working on the measurement of Everest since 2011. “The measurement is within centimetres of accuracy,” Sushil Dangol, the national coordinator of the Mt Everest Height Measurement Secretariat at the Survey Department, told the Post. “The data of the survey conducted by Nepali and Chinese measurement teams was processed to calculate the height. The margin of error is within centimetres.” The “rock height” has not been announced. [Read: In a new record, over 200 climbers summit Everest in a single day] A range of methods including traditional ones and those based on the latest technology were used to come up with the figure. “There have been several surveys conducted in the last 170 years by different countries but Nepal has never measured its own peak,” said Padma Kumari Aryal, minister for land management, cooperatives and poverty alleviation. “This survey will end debates on the height of Everest once and for all. This will be a commonly accepted height.” Between 1849 and 1855, the Survey of India made observations from Dehradun, India base to Sonakhoda base in Bihar. During these triangulation observations, the Himalayan peaks of Nepal were also observed. At that time it was not known that this peak in the Himalayas was the highest in the world. During computations, the mean computed height of Peak XV came out to be 29,002 ft, or 8,839.80 metres, and it was later named after Sir George Everest, the ex surveyor-general of India. [Read: Lonely Planet ranks Nepal’s Everest base camp as 4th best trek in the world] The widely accepted height of 8,848 metres or 29,028 feet was determined by the Survey of India in 1954 from Bihar using the trigonometric method. It was the third survey conducted by India. The second highest mountain in the world is K2, at 8,611 metres (28,251 ft) and is located in Pakistan. The height of Everest has never been precise. A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, worked out a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods. In 1999 an American survey, sponsored by the National Geographic Society and others, took precise measurements using a global positioning system, or GPS, equipment. Their finding of 29,035 feet (8,850 metres) was accepted by the society and by various specialists in the fields of geodesy and cartography. Nepal had welcomed the revelations but continued to use the height of 8,848 metres determined in 1954. “Their finding of 29,035 feet [8,850 metres], plus-minus 6.5 feet [2 metres] more than the accepted height, was accepted by the American society and by various specialists in the fields of geodesy and cartography. But Nepal did not accept it,” said Ganesh Prasad Bhatta, former head of the government's survey department. [Read: Kami Rita Sherpa scales Everest, second time in a week, to take his record tally to 24] Nepal said it would like to carry out its own measurements. In 2005, the Chinese State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping re-measured the peak utilising the ice-penetrating radar system in conjunction with GPS equipment and declared 29,017.12 feet (8,844.43) metres to be the Everest rock-height. Chinese and Nepali officials had then disagreed over the height of the iconic peak over whether the snow height or the rock height should be accepted. Nepal disputed the Chinese figure, preferring what was termed the “snow height” of 29,028 feet. Nepali mountaineering officials say that the height was one of the key reasons why Nepal had been drawing Everest aspirants in droves. [Read: Road to Everest: Tourists can breakfast in Kathmandu and drive to Khumbu for dinner] Ang Tsering Sherpa, former president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, said that the number of Everest aspirants in Nepal started to swell from 2007 when China started issuing Everest climbing certificates stating the height as 8,844.57 metres against 8,848 metres in certificates issued by Nepal for the same peak. The lower height was not recognised by various international organisations, including the Guinness World Record that tracks and documents record-breaking facts and achievements, he said. Since 2016, China started issuing climbing permits stating the height as 8,848.13 metres. “Now, there will be a common height which will end all debates,” said Sherpa about Tuesday’s announcement. But it will give China a huge advantage in the Everest climbing industry. “Climbing Everest through the northern side is much cheaper than climbing from the southern side,” he said. Everest is Nepal’s biggest cash cow when it comes to tourism. [Read: Ang Rita Sherpa, who climbed Everest 10 times without bottled oxygen, dies at 72] An Everest permit costs $11,000 for foreigners but most hopefuls end up spending an average of $50,000 on gear, room and board, and hiring guides and porters. The government collects $4 million from permits alone, according to the Department of Tourism. “But the cost of climbing from the north is almost half of that. The package from China costs an average $25,000. As people are price sensitive, China will have a big advantage now,” said Sherpa. “However, in Nepal, the money spent by a climber mostly benefits Nepal’s rural economy.” But climbing from Nepal, home to eight of the 14 highest mountains in the world, has many other advantages. Sherpa said rescue from Nepali side is prompt, it enables trekkers to enjoy a complete adventure—trek for weeks to reach the base camp and then the adventure of climbing from south is a life changing experience, said Sherpa. As for climbing from the Chinese side, there is a motorable road right up to the base camp and this has the additional hazard of altitude sickness. Around the world, Nepal is known by two words—Everest and Sherpa. But that too is about to change. “China is producing a lot of high altitude climbing guides. The government trains them for at least two years,” said Sherpa. “Within a few years, China will not require Nepali Sherpa climbing guides although the majority of climbing guides on the Chinese side are Sherpas now.” According to the Sherpa, hiring Sherpa guides costs an extra $8,000 for a foreigner climbing from the north. Ruan Zongze, executive vice president of the China Institute of International Studies, told the Global Times on Monday that reaching a consensus on the issue reflects the two countries' mutual respect and willingness to extend cooperation by promoting information sharing. “Mount Qomolangma [Everest] could be seen as a symbol of friendship between the two countries,” the Chinese government’s mouthpiece Global Times quoted Ruan as saying. “Rather than surveying the height separately, China and Nepal agreed on a unified result, similar to the mountain's area division.” Nepal had announced in 2011 measuring the mountain’s height as a “national pride” project but the project could not move forward because of political instability and a lack of funds. But urgency was felt after some geologists speculated that the height of Everest could have changed due to the 2015 earthquake with a possible shift in its position, according to Nepal’s survey department. The project finally kicked off in 2017. Nepal used early traditional as well as new technologies to measure the mountain’s height. Dangol, the national coordinator of the Mt Everest Height Measurement Secretariat, said that the Nepali survey was a mixture of the traditional and latest technologies conducting five sets of surveys: precise levelling, trigonometric levelling, gravity survey, global navigation satellite system, or GNSS, survey and summit observation. The GNSS survey, a constellation of satellites providing signals from space transmitting positioning and timing data, was conducted at the top of Everest and the data was collected for 1 hours 16 minutes and ground penetrating radar survey was also conducted at the time to find the snow depth, he said. According to the department, the precise levelling is conducted to find height from the southern plains of Nepal to the selected control points. Trigonometric levelling is performed from selected control points (points to which height is carried by precise levelling); gravity survey is conducted to define the local geoid around the Everest; and GNSS based survey is conducted for determining locations of gravity points, benchmarks as well as the summit of Everest. Nepal’s own survey team led by Khim Lal Gautam climbed Everest on May 22, 2019, and installed global positioning system equipment and ground-penetrating radar at the summit. Chinese surveyors had reached the top of Everest on May 27, 2020 for their own survey. The Chinese team used China’s BeiDou navigation satellite system and Chinese surveying instruments. This seventh round of survey in May achieved multiple technological breakthroughs, including the use of BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, and real-scene 3D technologies to obtain a reliable, accurate result and the status of natural resources on the mountain, according to Chinese media reports. [Read: With Everest expeditions cancelled, guides and porters could carry down trash and dead bodies] China's domestically developed BeiDou Satellite Navigation System, or BDS, and second-generation Geostationary Meteorological System, the Fengyun-4, as well as the Zhongxing-6A communication satellite also significantly contributed to the completion of the mountain quest. GNSS was also carried by the team to the peak, Chinese media reports said. "In the 2005 quest, GNSS satellite measurement mainly relied on the US GPS system. But this year, we shall reference data from all four existing GNSS systems—the GPS, Europe's Galileo, Russia's GLONASS, and China's own BDS. And the BDS data will be at its centre," Li Guopeng, an official with the Ministry of Natural Resources, was quoted as saying in the Global Times report. It was during Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit in October last year that Nepal and China agreed to jointly announce the height and settle once and for all the decades-long debate over the height. A total of 6,507 mountaineers have climbed Everest from the Nepal side since Tenzing Norgay Sherpa and New Zealander Edmund Percival Hillary first set foot atop the world's highest peak in May 1953.


--- [From The Hindu, July 28, 1975: Chinese theory on height of Everest] ---
Tokyo, July 27: The exact height of the world’s highest peak Mount Everest is 8,848.13 metres or 34 metres lower than the hitherto accepted figure of 3,882 metres. This has been determined by a team of Chinese surveyors and cartographers who accompanied the Chinese mountaineering expedition which reportedly ascended the peak last May, according to the official Hsinhua News Agency which gave some details of how the new height of Everest was determined in a Peking despatch on Thursday. The report said the Chinese surveyors and cartographers working in the face of extremely difficult conditions had succeeded in extending the national geodestic survey control network to the east main and west Rongbuk glaciers on the north slope of the mountain. They had carried out triangular traverse astronomical and gravity surveys at attitudes of 5,000 to 7,000 metres above sea level and counter checked the precise levelling of the area between Tingri and the Rongbuk monastery thus providing a reliable control basis for determining the height of Everest. After a surveying pole had been erected on the summit and the thickness of the accumulated snow there measured, the surveyors and cartographers had proceeded to conduct simultaneous observation and survey from ten triangulation points located 7 to 21 km. from the summit at altitudes of 5,600 to 6,300 metres. This operation had resulted in a complete set of data for mapping out the geographical location and the height of the peak. Published - July 28, 2025 04:10 am IST


--- [Nepal-China announced : Sagarmath's (Mount Everest) new height is 8,848 ...] ---
NFA (KATHMANDU, 8 November 2020) – 8,848.86 metres in new official height of Sagarmatha (Mount Everest. It was announced on 8 December 2020 simultaneously in Kathmandu and Beijing amid a programme attended by Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali and his Chinese counterparty Wang Yi. The new announcement puts an end to the decades-long debate on the height of the world’s tallest mountain.The precise height of Mount Everest had been contested ever since a group of British surveyors in India declared the height of Peak XV, as it was initially called, to be 8,778 metres in 1847. The new height was announced as per the joint measurement efforts by Nepal and China, the two countries the 8,848.86-metre mountain straddles. This new height converts to 29,031. 69 “This is a historic day,” Foreign Minister Gyawali said, making the much-awaited declaration on Tuesday. “The new height of Mt Everest is 8,848.86 metres.” “There have been several surveys conducted in the last 170 years by different countries but Nepal has never measured its own peak,” said Padma Kumari Aryal, minister for land management, cooperatives and poverty alleviation. “This survey will end debates on the height of Everest once and for all. This will be a commonly accepted height.” Between 1849 and 1855, the Survey of India made observations from Dehradun, India base to Sonakhoda base in Bihar. During these triangulation observations, the Himalayan peaks of Nepal were also observed. At that time it was not known that this peak in the Himalayas was the highest in the world. During computations, the mean computed height of Peak XV came out to be 29,002 ft, or 8,839.80 metres, and it was later named after Sir George Everest, the ex surveyor-general of India. The widely accepted height of 8,848 metres or 29,028 feet was determined by the Survey of India in 1954 from Bihar using the trigonometric method. It was the third survey conducted by India. The second highest mountain in the world is K2, at 8,611 metres (28,251 ft) and is located in Pakistan. A Chinese survey in 1975 obtained the figure of 29,029.24 feet (8,848.11 metres), and an Italian survey, using satellite surveying techniques, worked out a value of 29,108 feet (8,872 metres) in 1987, but questions arose about the methods. In 1999 an American survey, sponsored by the National Geographic Society and others, took precise measurements using a global positioning system, or GPS, equipment. Their finding of 29,035 feet (8,850 metres) was accepted by the society and by various specialists in the fields of geodesy and cartography. Nepal had welcomed the revelations but continued to use the height of 8,848 metres determined in 1954. “Their finding of 29,035 feet [8,850 metres], plus-minus 6.5 feet [2 metres] more than the accepted height, was accepted by the American society and by various specialists in the fields of geodesy and cartography. But Nepal did not accept it,” said Ganesh Prasad Bhatta, former head of the government’s survey department.
