=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lucien Gaulard - Wikipedia]
Biography Gaulard was born in Paris, France in 1850. A power transformer developed by Gaulard of France and John Dixon Gibbs of England was demonstrated in London, and attracted the interest of Westinghouse. Gaulard and Gibbs first exhibited a device in London in 1881 and then sold the idea to the American company Westinghouse.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucien_Gaulard

[George Westinghouse]
Westinghouse was alerted by Guido Pantaleoni, an Italian engineer in his employ, to the already-patented Gaulard-Gibbs transformer design, and to an already ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Westinghouse

[Lucien Gaulard - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Lucien Gaulard (1850 November 26, 1888) invented devices for the transmission of alternating current electrical energy. Gaulard was born in Paris, France. A power transformer developed by Gaulard of France and John Dixon Gibbs of England was demonstrated in London, and attracted the interest of We
URL: https://alchetron.com/Lucien-Gaulard

[Lucien Gaulard - Graces Guide]
Information on an exhibition of Gibbs and Gaulard's transformer in Turin, Italy in 1884 was published in 1885 and caught the attention of George Westinghouse. In the summer of 1885 Westinghouse bought the American rights for Gibbs and Gaulard's design and ordered that several transformers from Gibbs and Gaulard.
URL: https://www.gracesguide.co.uk/Lucien_Gaulard

[John Dixon Gibbs - Graces Guide]
John Dixon Gibbs (1834–1912) was a British engineer and financier who, together with Lucien Gaulard, is often credited as the co-inventor of the AC step-down transformer.
URL: https://www.gracesguide.co.uk/John_Dixon_Gibbs


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lucien Gaulard - Wikipedia] ---
Lucien Gaulard (16 July 1850 – 26 November 1888) was a French engineer who invented devices for the transmission of alternating current electrical energy.


--- [George Westinghouse] ---
George Westinghouse Jr. (October 6, 1846 – March 12, 1914) was a prolific American inventor, engineer, and entrepreneurial industrialist based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is best known for his creation of the railway air brake and for being a pioneer in the development and use of alternating current (AC) electrical power distribution. During his career, he received 360 patents for his inventions and established 61 companies, many of which still exist today.
His invention of a train braking system using compressed air revolutionized the railroad industry around the world. He founded the Westinghouse Air Brake Company in 1869. He and his engineers also developed track-switching and signaling systems, which lead to the founding of the company Union Switch & Signal in 1881. 
In the early 1880s, he developed inventions for the safe production, transmission, and use of natural gas. This sparked the creation of a whole new energy industry.
During this same period, Westinghouse recognized the potential of using alternating current (AC) for electric power distribution. In 1886, he founded the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. Westinghouse's electric business directly competed with Thomas Edison's, who was promoting direct current (DC) electricity. Westinghouse Electric won the contract to showcase its AC system to illuminate the "White City" at the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago. The company went on to install the world's first large-scale, AC power generation plant at Niagara Falls, New York, which opened in August 1895. 
Ironically, among many other honors, Westinghouse received the 1911 Edison Medal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers "for meritorious achievement in connection with the development of the alternating current system".




--- [Lucien Gaulard - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Occupation Inventor | Name Lucien Gaulard | | Lucien Gaulard (1850 – November 26, 1888) invented devices for the transmission of alternating current electrical energy. Contents Biography Gaulard was born in Paris, France. A power transformer developed by Gaulard of France and John Dixon Gibbs of England was demonstrated in London, and attracted the interest of Westinghouse. Gaulard and Gibbs first exhibited a device in London in 1881 and then sold the idea to the American company Westinghouse. They also exhibited the invention in Turin in 1884, where it was adopted for an electric lighting system. Many of the features of their design were adapted to the particular laws governing electrical distribution in the UK. In 1882, 1884, and 1885 Gaulard and Gibbs applied for patents on their transformer; however, these were overturned due to actions initiated by Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti and others. In 1885, William Stanley, Jr. built the first practical transformer based on Gaulard and Gibbs's idea, the precursor of the modern transformer. Transformers were nothing new, but the Gaulard-Gibbs design was one of the first that could handle large amounts of power and promised to be easy to manufacture. Westinghouse imported a number of Gaulard-Gibbs transformers and a Siemens AC generator to begin experimenting with AC networks in Pittsburgh. Gaulard died in an institution (Sainte-Anne Hospital) in Paris, and was said to have lost his reason due to the loss of the patents on his invention. Several months before his death, Gaulard appeared at the Elysee asking the concierge to conduct him to the president of France, for whom, he said, he had an urgent message. The message was "I am God and God does not wait". He has been described as an inventor whose ingenuity cost him not only his money, but reason and life as well. A tablet was erected to Gaulard at Lanzo Torinese.


--- [Lucien Gaulard - Graces Guide] ---
Lucien Gaulard Lucien Gaulard (16 July 1850 – 26 November 1888). Frequently referred to as Lucien Goulard. Born in Paris. Gaulard died in an institution (Sainte-Anne Hospital) in Paris, and was said to have lost his reason due to the loss of the patents on his invention. The above information is condensed from the Wikipedia. Gaulard and John Dixon Gibbs are often credited as the co-inventors of the AC step-down transformer. The transformer was first demonstrated in 1883 at London's Royal Aquarium. At the time the term "transformer" had not yet been invented, so instead it was referred to as a "secondary generator". Gibbs's role in the invention appears to have been more that of a financial backer and businessman. Information on an exhibition of Gibbs and Gaulard's transformer in Turin, Italy in 1884 was published in 1885 and caught the attention of George Westinghouse. In the summer of 1885 Westinghouse bought the American rights for Gibbs and Gaulard's design and ordered that several transformers from Gibbs and Gaulard. Westinghouse then asked the engineer William Stanley, Jr. to design an electric lighting system using them. Stanley subsequently greatly improved on Gibbs and Gaulard's design and is often credited in their place. The above information is condensed from the Wikipedia entry for John Dixon Gibbs. See also Gaulard-Gibbs.


--- [John Dixon Gibbs - Graces Guide] ---
John Dixon Gibbs John Dixon Gibbs (1834–1912) was a British engineer and financier who, together with Lucien Gaulard, is often credited as the co-inventor of the AC step-down transformer. c.1834 Born in Clapham, Surrey[1] 1860 Married Mary Ann Farnice in Paddington[2] 1860 A merchant at the baptism of his daughter Harriet in Tottenham[3] 1863-7 In the West Indies[4] 1871 The Gibbs family was living in Egham but John was absent on census day[5] 1881 His 16 year old daughter Rose Mary was visiting William Mather in Salford but the whereabouts of John is not known.[6] 1884 Was a director of the National Company for the Distribution of Electricity by Secondary Generators. Became a member of Lord Thurlow's Committee on The Electric Lighting Act.[7] 1891 John Dixon Gibbs 57, lived in Pinner on own means, with his daughters Harriett Mary Gibbs 30, Rosa Maury Gibbs 26, Alice Emily Gibbs 24, Mary Mather Gibbs 21. 1912 Died in London; his death was widely recorded as that of John Dixon Gibbes[8] History of the Gaulard-Gibbs transformer The transformer was first demonstrated in 1883 at London's Royal Aquarium. At the time the term "transformer" had not yet been invented, so instead it was referred to as a "secondary generator". Although he is usually credited equally with Gaulard, Gibbs's role in the invention appears to have been more that of a financial backer and businessman. Although the underlying physics of the transformer, mainly Faraday's law of induction, had been known since the 1830s, transformers became viable only after the introduction of Gaulard and Gibbs's transformer design in 1883. The breakthrough was to build an iron transformer core. At the time, their invention was seen as over-complicated since it contained a movable armature. It caught the attention of Sir Coutts Lindsay, who used it to power the Grosvenor Gallery, which was one of the first lighting systems in Britain powered by a central generating station. In 1885 Ottó Bláthy, Miksa Déri and Károly Zipernowsky secured a patent on a similar design, using laminated sheets of metal to reduce eddy currents. Information on an exhibition of Gibbs and Gaulard's transformer in Turin, Italy in 1884 was published in 1885 and caught the attention of George Westinghouse. In the summer of 1885 Westinghouse bought the American rights for Gibbs and Gaulard's design and ordered that several transformers from Gibbs and Gaulard. Westinghouse then asked the engineer William Stanley, Jr. to design an electric lighting system using them. Stanley subsequently greatly improved on Gibbs and Gaulard's design and is often credited in their place. John Dixon Gibbs had his work patented under German patent no. 28947, a patent also recognized in Great Britain. The patent was disputed by Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti. Gibbs and Gaulard lost the patent, and Gibbs was financially ruined in the process. The above information is condensed from the Wikipedia entry. Despite the above, he gained various patents in his own name after Gaulard's death: 1888 Spanish patent on "Improvements to generators, transformers, or secondary electricity converters." 1889 Spanish patent on "A new procedure in the distribution of electricity in such a way that it serves for the production of light and motive power." 1901 Spanish patent on "A blue flame liquid hydrocarbon lamp burner system for lighting and heating."
