=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of first women lawyers and judges in New York - Wikipedia]
This is a list of the first women lawyer (s) and judge (s) in New York. It includes the year in which the women were admitted to practice law (in parentheses). Also included are women who achieved other distinctions such becoming the first in their state to graduate from law school or become a political figure.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_first_women_lawyers_and_judges_in_New_York

[History - NYWBA]
1893 – First woman lawyer admitted to the New York State Bar – Stanleyetta Titus (graduation of NYU Law School) 1900 – First woman admitted to practice law in the Hawaii federal court – Elizabeth Hayes Ryan
URL: https://www.nywba.org/history2/

[Kate Stoneman (1841-1925): First female Albany Law grad, first woman ...]
Dec 5, 2013 · She became the first woman admitted to the bar and enrolled at Albany Law School in 1896 at age 55. Two years later, she became the first woman to graduate from the school.
URL: https://www.timesunion.com/albanyrural/article/Kate-Stoneman-1841-1925-First-female-Albany-4993106.php

[Kate Stoneman - Wikipedia]
Kate Stoneman ... Katherine Stoneman (April 1841 – May 19, 1925) [1] was an early 20th-century suffragist and the first woman admitted to the Bar Association in the State of New York.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kate_Stoneman

[Women Lawyer Firsts - National Conference of Women's Bar ... - NCWBA]
A YouTube video on Marion Griffin, the first female lawyer in Tennessee. A YouTube video of the first three female justices of the Michigan Supreme Court. A film trailer on Patsy Mink, the first Japanese-American female lawyer in Hawaii, and the first Asian-American woman and woman of color elected to the US Congress.
URL: https://ncwba.org/history/women-lawyer-firsts/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of first women lawyers and judges in New York - Wikipedia] ---
This is a list of the first women lawyer(s) and judge(s) in New York. It includes the year in which the women were admitted to practice law (in parentheses). Also included are women who achieved other distinctions such becoming the first in their state to graduate from law school or become a political figure.


--- [History - NYWBA] ---
1648 – First women lawyer in America – Margaret Brent (Maryland) 1848 – Declaration of the Rights of Women (Seneca Falls) 1869 – First women admitted to law school: Washington University in St. Louis – Lemma Barkaloo and Phoebe Wilson Couzins Ms. Couzins graduated in 1871 and the University’s website reports she became the 4th woman admitted to the practice of law in the U.S. Ms. Barbaloo became Missouri’s first attorney; however, she attended the Washington University for only one year and took the Missouri bar in 1870 without completing law school. Howard University – Charlotte E. Ray (graduated 1872 and became the first African American woman admitted to the bar) 1869 – First woman admitted to practice law – Arabella Mansfield in Iowa (Ms. Mansfield is sometimes called “Bella Mansfield”) 1870 – First woman to graduate from law school – Ada H. Kepley, of Illinois, graduated from the Union College of Law in Chicago (which is now Northwestern University). 1870 – First woman judge appointed in U.S. – Hon. Esther McQuigg Morris, Justice of the Peace, South Pass City, Wyoming 1872 – First African American woman admitted to the bar – Charlotte E. Ray (District of Columbia) 1872 – University of Michigan and Boston University admit women to their law schools 1878 – Hastings Law School admits women (after losing a law school about female admissions) 1879 – First woman admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court – Belva Lockwood. (She had to sue the Court for permission.) 1873 – U.S. Supreme Court affirms decision by Supreme Court of Illinois to deny Myra Bradwell admission to the Illinois State Bar (Bradwell v. Illinois, 83 U.S. 130, 141-42 (1873)). 1875 – Wisconsin Supreme Court denies Lavinia Goodell admission to the state bar 1883 – First woman to hold both a medical degree and a law degree – Carrie Burnham Kilgore (received New York Medical Degree in 1865 & admitted to privileges at Bellevue Hospital; received LL.B. from Penn State University School of Law in 1883) 1887 – Buffalo Law School admits women 1888 – First woman admitted to practice law in Hawaii (while Hawaii was still a monarchy) – Almeda Hitchcock 1888 – New York University admits women to attend law classes as part of its Graduate School of Arts and Science. (One of its graduates – Stanleyetta Titus – became the first woman admitted to the bar in NYS.) 1896 – First law school for women established – Washington College of Law (District of Columbia); this school is now known as American University Washington College of Law. (Some references indicate that classes actually started in 1898.) 1899 – “Women Lawyers Club” established in New York City by 18 women denied admission to other bar associations; organization renamed in 1908 to “Association of Women Lawyers,” and in 1923 to “National Association of Women Lawyers” (NAWL) 1893 – First woman lawyer admitted to the New York State Bar – Stanleyetta Titus (graduation of NYU Law School) 1900 – First woman admitted to practice law in the Hawaii federal court – Elizabeth Hayes Ryan 1906 – First woman to argue a case before the U.S. Supreme Court – Belva Lockwood 1908 – Portia Law School established in Boston (all female student body); this school is now called the New England School of Law 1910 – First Native American woman admitted to the bar – Lyda Burton Conley (Kansas) 1911 – Brooklyn Women’s Bar Association established (first “women’s bar association” in New York State) 1918 – First women admitted to the American Bar Association – Mary B. Grossman of Cleveland and Mary Florence Lathrop of Denver 1918 – Fordham University School of Law and Yale University School of Law admit women 1919 – Columbia University School of Law admits women 1919 – First woman full-time law professor appointed – Barbara Nachtrieb Armstrong, LL.B., Ph.D., at the University of California at Berkeley 1920 – Ratification of the 19th Amendment giving women the right to vote 1922 – First woman elected to a state Supreme Court – Hon. Florence Ellinwood Allen (also first Federal Court Judge in 1934) 1923 – Northeastern University School of Law (in Boston) admits women 1924 – First woman hired by a Wall Street law firm – Catherine Noyes Lee (Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft) 1926 – First African American Woman to argue before the U.S. Supreme Court – Violette Neatly Anderson 1933 – First woman President of Federal Bar Association – Marguerite Rawalt 1934 – First woman Federal Court Judge – Hon. Florence Ellinwood Allen 1934 – New York Women’s Bar Association (NYWBA) established by six women attorneys who were denied admission to other bar associations (NYWBA incorporated in 1935) 1942 – First Asian woman admitted to practice in Hawaii – Sau Ung Loo Chan 1943 – First woman member of the American Bar Association House of Delegates – Marguerite Rawalt 1943 – First woman appointed to the position of federal prosecutor in New York State – Hon. Florence Perlow Shientag (Assistant U.S. Attorney, Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney’s Office, Southern District of New York); Judge Shientag was also a founder of the New York Women’s Bar Association in 1934, served as Law Secretary to Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, and later served as a Family Court Judge in New York City) 1944 – First woman partner at a Wall Street law firm – Soia Mentschikoff (Spence, Windels, Walser, Hotchkiss & Angell; firm name changed in the following year to Spencer, Hotchkiss, Parker & Duryee) (She was also the first woman to teach at Harvard Law School) 1944 – First woman to serve as a Law Clerk at the U.S. Supreme Court – Lucille Lomen 1950 – Harvard University School of Law admits women 1951 – First woman appointed as Dean of an accredited U.S. law school – Miriam Theresa Rooney (Seton Hall University School of Law; notably, 1951 was also the first year that Seton Hall had a law school) 1951 – First African American woman full-time professor at an accredited law school – Sybil Jones Dedmond (North Carolina Central University School of Law) 1953 – First Japanese American woman admitted to the bar in Hawaii – Patsy (Matsu Takemoto) Mink (later became the first Asian American elected to the U.S. Congress) 1962 – First African American woman to argue before the U.S. Supreme Court – Hon. Constance Baker Motley (later became the first African American woman to serve as a federal judge) 1965 – Title VII of Civil Rights Act enacted, which (among other provisions) added “sex” as a grounds for discrimination complaints for the first time; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission established with power to enforce Title VII 1965 – First woman appointed a Chief Judge of a state Supreme Court – Hon. Lorna Lockwood (Arizona) 1966 – FIrst African American woman appointed to the federal bench – Hon. Constance Baker Motley (U.S.D.J, S.D.N.Y) (Judge Motley was also the first woman to serve as New York City Borough President and the first African American woman to argue before the U.S. Supreme Court, where she prevailed on 9 of the 10 cases she argued.) 1966-1967 – University of Notre Dame School of Law admits women 1979 – National Association of Women Judges established 1980 – Women’s Bar Association of the State of New York (WBASNY) established. Local Women’s Bar Associations from across New York State that were previously independent joined together to form WBASNY, with Joan Ellenbogen (past President of the New York Women’s Bar Association) as the First WBASNY President. WBASNY remains one of only three statewide bar associations in New York State (the other two are the New York State Bar Association and New York State Trial Lawyers Association.) Ms. Ellenbogen was the first lesbian in the nation to head a statewide bar association. 1980 – First woman (and first Asian) appointed to the federal bench in Hawaii – Hon. Marie Nakanishi Milks (U.S.D.J., D. Hawaii), later became first Circuit Court Judge (U.S.Ct of Appeals, Ninth Circuit) 1981 – First woman appointed to serve as a Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court – Hon. Sandra Day O’Connor 1983 – First woman appointed to New York’s highest court, the New York Court of Appeals – Hon. Judith Kaye; she later became the first female Chief Judge of the NY Court of Appeals, and she presided over the first Court of Appeals bench with a female majority of judges. 1984 – First woman to run for the position of Vice President of the United States – New York attorney Geraldine Ferraro 1985 – First woman appointed to the bench of an Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court – Hon. Betty Weinberg Ellerin (App. Div., First Dep’t) (later served as first female Presiding Justice) 1988 – First African American woman on appointed to a state’s highest court – Hon. Juanita Kidd Stout (Supreme Court of Pennsylvania) 1989 – First woman appointed to serve as the Presiding Justice of an Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division – Hon. Betty Weinberg Ellerin (P.J, App. Div., First Dep’t) 1991 – First state with a majority of women on its highest court – Minnesota Supreme Court 1992 – First Latinas appointed to the federal bench in the continental U.S.: Hon. Sonia Sotomayor (U.S.D.J., S.D.N.Y.) – Judge Sotomayor was the first Hispanic (man or woman) appointed to the federal bench in New York, and she went on to serve as a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and is now an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Hon. Irma Gonzalez (U.S.D.J, S.D. Calif.) – Judge Gonzalez was first Mexican-American woman to serve as a federal judge, and she later served as Chief Judge of the S.D. Calif. 1993 – First woman to serve as Attorney General of the United States – Janet Reno 1995 – First woman President of the American Bar Association – Roberta Cooper Ramo 1998 – First Japanese American woman appointed to the federal bench in the nation – Hon. Susan Mollway (U.S.D.J, D. Hawaii) 2011 – First woman appointed to the federal bench in the Northern District of New York – Hon. Mae A. D’Agostino (U.S.D.J, N.D.N.Y) 2012 – First Filipino American (man or woman) appointed to the federal bench – Hon. Lorna Schofield (U.S.D.J., S.D.N.Y) 2013 – First woman appointed to the federal bench in the Western District of New York – Hon. Elizabeth A. Wolford (U.S.D.J, W.D.N.Y) 2013 – First African American woman appointed to New York State’s highest court – Hon. Sheila Abdus-Salaam (New York Court of Appeals) PREMIER EVENTS March 10, 2026 | Save the date for the 2026 NYWBA Judicial Reception honoring our special guests: The Newly Elected, Newly Appointed, and Re-Elected Judges of New York County at a Cocktail Reception. LEARN MORE AND REGISTER HERE. Newsletter The next issue of the NYWBA Newsletter will come out on April 1, 2026. Please send your articles and photos by March 10 (or right away, if they’re ready!) NYWBA Mailing List Upcoming Events NYWBA Cycle for Survival 2026 March 8, 2026 1:00 pm / 5:00 pm NYWBA Elder Law and Disabilities Committee Lunch and Learn: Pooled Trusts


--- [Kate Stoneman (1841-1925): First female Albany Law grad, first woman ...] ---
Kate Stoneman was a trailblazer who broke new ground and made it possible for future generations of women to pursue careers as lawyers. Yet she was reviled rather than celebrated for breaking the gender barrier and becoming the first woman to pass the bar in New York state in 1885. Her application to practice law was denied because "her sex was against her," the court said. "Before the Bar in Petticoats" fumed a headline in an Albany newspaper article that began: "A woman be a lawyer? Impossible! Monstrous! Surely there must be some mistake!" Stoneman left her family farm in Busti, Chautauqua County, to attend the State Normal School (now University at Albany). After graduating in 1865, she was hired as a faculty member at the school and taught geography, drawing, penmanship and school law. Advertisement Article continues below this ad She helped form the Woman's Suffrage Society of Albany, became active in suffragist and temperance causes, and began studying law at night after being named executrix of her great aunt's estate. She continued to teach during the day and pored over law books on nights and weekends. After three years, she became the second woman to take the New York State bar examination (the other woman failed). She passed both writing and oral exams, but was denied admission to the bar because she was a woman and there was "no president," three state Supreme Court justices wrote. Stoneman lobbied the Legislature and Gov. David B. Hill, who signed the law that removed gender qualifications from Section 56 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Don’t miss the next big story She became the first woman admitted to the bar and enrolled at Albany Law School in 1896 at age 55. Two years later, she became the first woman to graduate from the school. "We humbly advise her to have just as few women clients as possible. They are troublesome," the Albany Law Journal wrote. Advertisement Article continues below this ad She continued to toil as a suffragist and lived to see New York's women vote for the first time as an Albany poll watcher in 1918. In 1994, Albany Law School celebrated its first Kate Stoneman Day and in 2000 established a Kate Stoneman visiting professorship. She was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls in 2009. She is the sister of Civil War General George Stoneman Jr., who successfully held off raids by Confederate forces at Chancellorsville, Va., and is immortalized in The Band's song, "The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down." Never married, Stoneman is buried in a single plot next to a modest granite marker in Section 56, Lot 28.


--- [Kate Stoneman - Wikipedia] ---
Katherine Stoneman (April 1841 – May 19, 1925) was an early 20th-century suffragist and the first woman admitted to the Bar Association in the State of New York.


--- [Women Lawyer Firsts - National Conference of Women's Bar ... - NCWBA] ---
Because there are many glass ceilings as yet unbroken, noting “firsts” of women in the law is a matter for current events, not just history long past. It should therefore be the task of women’s bar associations, journalists and others interested in the progress of women to ensure that new “firsts” are identified and noted, but only after appropriate research. It is sometimes the case that someone assumes that because something hasn’t happened in recent memory, it has never happened. Once someone is misidentified as a “first,” the mistake is often picked up in subsequent articles and references. Eventually, history is re-written. Adding to the difficulty of identifying “firsts” is the fact that memories vary, bar associations didn’t track members by gender until relatively recently, and definitions aren’t uniform. For example, what does it mean to be the “first female lawyer in the United States”? Is it Margaret Brent, who appeared in court in the Colony of Maryland, or Arabella Mansfield, who was admitted to the bar of Iowa in 1869? Click here for an article about the historical perspective on women lawyers and state bar admission. Careful categorization and precision in language will help to keep the historical record straight! In the 1990s, as numbers of women lawyers increased exponentially, various bar associations celebrated the “First 100 Women Lawyers” or themes such as “First 125 Years of Women “Lawyers.” Here are links to information developed as a result of these and subsequent state or city-focused efforts: Currently, a First Hundred Years program is underway in the United Kingdom to document the history of women in the legal profession. A similar project has been undertaken in Australia, celebrating the First Hundred Years in various Australian states. Here’s a list of the first women admitted to practice before the US Supreme Court.
