=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2022 Bhadohi fire - Wikipedia]
On 2 October 2022, a fire occurred at a Durga Puja pandal (temporary structure for worship) in Narthuwa village in Bhadohi district of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Seventeen people died [1][2] and at least 75 people were injured in the incident. The investigation revealed that the decorative fiber polythene sheets had caught fire due to heat caused by halogen lights. The incident ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Bhadohi_fire

[5 dead, 64 injured as fire engulfs Durga Puja pandal in UP's Bhadohi]
At least five people died and 64 were injured in a fire in Bhadohi Durga Puja Pandal on Sunday evening. Three children and two women have died in the incident. According to SP Bhadohi Dr. Anil Kumar, a case has been registered against Baccha Yadav, president of the Durga Puja Organising Committee ...
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/injured-in-durga-puja-pandal-fire-in-up-bhadohi-2007573-2022-10-02

[Uttar Pradesh: 5 Killed, 67 Injured in Durga Puja Pandal Fire]
The pandal was reduced to ashes. Video screengrab showing the audience inside the pandal in UP's Bhadohi, moments before it caught fire. New Delhi: Five people were killed and 67 others injured after a fire broke out in a Durga Puja pandal at Uttar Pradesh's Bhadohi after a halogen light overheated.
URL: https://m.thewire.in/article/politics/uttar-pradesh-5-killed-67-injured-in-durga-puja-pandal-fire

[2022 Bhadohi fire]
Oct 2, 2022 — The incident occurred around 9:30 PM (IST), during the celebration of Saptami or the seventh day of Navaratri, an annual Hindu festival observed ...
URL: https://justapedia.org/wiki/2022_Bhadohi_fire

[Grokipedia: 2022 Bhadohi fire]
Learn more about 2022 Bhadohi fire on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/2022_Bhadohi_fire


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2022 Bhadohi fire - Wikipedia] ---
On 2 October 2022, a fire occurred at a Durga Puja pandal (temporary structure for worship) in Narthuwa village in Bhadohi district of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Seventeen people died and at least 75 people were injured in the incident. The investigation revealed that the decorative fiber polythene sheets had caught fire due to heat caused by halogen lights. The incident occurred around 9:30 pm (IST), during the celebration of Saptami or the seventh day of Navaratri, an annual Hindu festival observed in honour of the Hindu goddess Durga. Around 150 to 300 people or more were present at the venue when the incident took place.


--- [5 dead, 64 injured as fire engulfs Durga Puja pandal in UP's Bhadohi] ---
5 dead, 64 injured as fire engulfs Durga Puja pandal in UP's Bhadohi At least 5 people died and 64 were injured in a fire in Bhadohi Durga Puja Pandal. At least five people died and 64 were injured in a fire in Bhadohi Durga Puja Pandal on Sunday evening. Three children and two women have died in the incident. According to SP Bhadohi Dr. Anil Kumar, a case has been registered against Baccha Yadav, president of the Durga Puja Organising Committee. Cases were also registered against many other unidentified members of the committee. Earlier, District Magistrate Gaurang Rathi along with other senior officials of the district reached the spot to oversee the rescue efforts. An official of the fire department said that the incident occurred around 9.30 pm when an aarti was being performed. Around 300 people were inside the Pandal at the time of the incident. Prima facie, an electric short circuit is believed to be the cause of fire. (With input from PTI)


--- [Uttar Pradesh: 5 Killed, 67 Injured in Durga Puja Pandal Fire] ---
Uttar Pradesh: 5 Killed, 67 Injured in Durga Puja Pandal Fire New Delhi: Five people were killed and 67 others injured after a fire broke out in a Durga Puja pandal at Uttar Pradesh's Bhadohi after a halogen light overheated. The fire broke out in a Durga Puja pandal in Narthua village, a stone's throw from Aurai police station, around 9.30 pm on Sunday, October 2, District Magistrate Gaurang Rathi told the news agency PTI. A performance was taking place at the pandal and 300-400 people were inside it when the fire broke out on Sunday night. The pandal was reduced to ashes. Most of the people inside the pandal were women and children. UP: Initial moment of fire inside the Durga Pandal in #Bhadohi district of Uttar Pradesh pic.twitter.com/2TRgStnG54 — Ahmed Khabeer احمد خبیر (@AhmedKhabeer_) October 3, 2022 Two of the five dead are 12 and 10 years old respectively. NDTV has reported that a third child has died. Among the two adults who have died is a 45-year-old woman. A total of 67 people were injured in the fire, out of whom three are in a serious condition, PTI reported. "A halogen light at the pandal overheated, causing an electric wire to catch fire at multiple points simultaneously. Soon the fire engulfed the wooden scaffolding and the tent," Rathi said. The cause of the fire was ascertained by a special probe team constituted by Additional Director General Ram Kumar, the DM said. Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar said that an FIR has been lodged at Aurai police station. The Durga Puja had been organised by Ekta Club Pooja Samiti. (With PTI inputs) This article went live on October third, two thousand twenty two, at twenty-seven minutes past ten in the morning.The Wire is now on WhatsApp. Follow our channel for sharp analysis and opinions on the latest developments.


--- [2022 Bhadohi fire] ---
No content


--- [Grokipedia: 2022 Bhadohi fire] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
