=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History · Baptist General State Convention of IL.]
On October 2, 1902, sixty-four years after the beginning of the Wood River Baptist Association, a group of Baptist met at the Mt. Zion Baptist Church, located at 9th and Carpenter Street in Springfield, Illinois and organized the Baptist General State Convention of Illinois .
URL: https://bgscil.org/history/

[Minutes of the Wood River Baptist Association]
Association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches.
URL: https://repository.sbts.edu/handle/10392/5453?show=full

[Wood River Baptist District Association, Inc - HISTORICAL PREVIEW]
In spite of its inadequate treatment in history, Wood River Baptist District Association of Illinois is the oldest continuous African American Baptist Association in the country today; and it has continually influenced the religion and lives of numerous African Americans from the nineteenth century antebellum period to the present.
URL: http://www.woodriverbaptist.org/about-us/historical-preview.html

[Minutes of the ... annual session : Wood River Baptist Association (Ill ...]
v. ; 20-23 cm Description based on: 44th (1884) Association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. Cf. Minutes of the 19th (1864) annual meeting / Baptist General Association of Illinois, p. 39
URL: https://archive.org/details/minutesofannuals00wood

[Baptist History Homepage]
Baptist History Homepage MINUTES OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE WOOD RIVER COLORED BAPTIST ASSOCIATION WITH THE MOUNT EMORY BAPTIST CHURCH, MORGAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS - AUGUST 18, 19, 20 & 21, A. D. 1864. This association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. Their records are very detailed – 20 pages.
URL: https://baptisthistoryhomepage.com/illinois.wood.river.color.assoc.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History · Baptist General State Convention of IL.] ---
Baptist General State Convention of Illinois, Incorporated 3609 West Harmon Highway Peoria, IL. 61604 Directions 1 (309) 676-8983 Phone news@bgscil.org Email If you would like to contact the Baptist General State Convention of IL., please use the contact information provided above or our contact form. our history A Brief History of The Baptist General State Convention of Illinois, Inc. To be sure, the same forces which coalesced to create the rise of Black Baptists in America were at work in the State of Illinois. Long before the Civil War, Blacks migrated from the South, crossed the Mason-Dixon Line, and settled in Illinois . Many slaves and freedmen fled to this new “frontier” in search of favorable conditions for worship. As they arrived, they began to build churches throughout the state, but soon discovered a need to establish a single body to promote their mutual interests. For this reason, a number of Black churches organized the Wood River Baptist District Association on April 27, 1838, in the home of Mr. Samuel Vinson. They held their first session in the Mt. Zion Baptist Church of Ridge 3, Prairie, Illinois, in Madison County, on September 13 of that same year. In 1853 the Providence Baptist Association of Ohio, the Wood River Baptist Association and other churches of the “western” states decided to establish one entity. They organized the Western Colored Baptist Convention. The Convention movement was begun. On September 24, 1895 in Atlanta, Georgia, the National Baptist Convention of the United States of America was formed from the union of the Foreign Mission Convention, the National Baptist Educational Convention, and the American National Baptist Convention. This consolidation of Black Baptists into one national body led to extensive growth. A special report issued in 1906 by the Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of the Census on “Religious Bodies” noted that in 1890 there were 1,348,989 members in the continental United States and by 1906 that number had grown to 2,261,607. The rapid growth in membership led to the need for a state convention within Illinois. On October 2, 1902, sixty-four years after the beginning of the Wood River Baptist Association, a group of Baptist met at the Mt. Zion Baptist Church, located at 9th and Carpenter Street in Springfield, Illinois and organized the Baptist General State Convention of Illinois . The Reverend J. F. Thomas, Minister of the Olivet Baptist Church, was elected as the first President of the Convention. He served in this capacity from 1902 to 1909. During the Annual Session of 1909, held in Quincy, Illinois, at the First Baptist Church, Reverend F. J. Fisher was elected to succeed Dr. J. F. Thomas. Dr. Fisher was also a Pastor of Olivet Baptist Church of Chicago. The Reverend F. A. McCoo of Chicago followed Dr. Fisher as President of the Convention, being elected during the 1914 Annual Session held at the Rock Hill Baptist Church of Carbondale, Illinois. The Reverend S. J. Williams of Joliet succeeded Reverend McCoo and served through the 1917 Annual Session, held at the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church of Cairo, Illinois. It was during this Annual Session of the State Convention that another Pastor of the Olivet Baptist Church of Chicago, ascended to the Presidency. Dr. L. K. Williams served as President until he was chosen as leader of the National Convention. In September of 1922, in the city of St. Louis, MO., Dr. L. K. Williams was elected President of the National Baptist Convention, U.S.A. Inc. Consequently, in January of 1923, Dr. Williams resigned the office of President of Baptist General State Convention of Illinois in order to devote more time to his national responsibilities. The Vice President, Rev. J. J. Olive ascended to the Presidency of the State Convention, completing the year, and was elected to his own term in June of that same year. Dr. Olive served as President of Baptist General until the Master called him from labor to reward on September 2, 1937. Upon the death of Dr. Olive, Dr. William Bennett of Chicago, the Vice President, finished the unexpired term and was elected President in June of 1938, during the Annual Session held at the True Light Baptist Church of East St. Louis, Illinois. He served as President through the June Session of 1939, held with the Mt. Zion Baptist Church of Peoria, Illinois. During the Peoria Session of 1939, Dr. J. L. Horace, Pastor of the Monumental Baptist Church of Chicago, was elected President, succeeding Dr. Bennett. Dr. Horace was an outstanding leader. He was recognized as having built one of the greatest programs ever witnessed in any state since slavery. During his administration, Dr. Horace unified the State; greatly increased missions, Christian education, church extension, evangelism and the L. K. Williams Memorial Scholarship Fund. He also led the Convention in the purchasing of a Headquarters, as well as establishing the General Baptist Advocate as the mouthpiece of the Convention. Dr. Horace served as President through the Annual Session of 1959, held at the Mt. Zion Baptist Church of Peoria. At the 1959 Annual Session, Reverend J. A. Wilson was elected President of the State Convention. He held this office until 1967, when Dr. Owen D. Pelt, Pastor of the Shiloh Baptist Church of Chicago, was elected President during the Annual Session held at the Olivet Baptist Church of Chicago. These were the turbulent ‘60’s and Dr. Pelt was elected with much enthusiasm and great hope for the Convention. The great expectations of the Pelt administration were short-lived. Dr. Pelt was called from labor to reward in 1968, and was succeeded by Reverend R. B. Lyles, Pastor of the Mt. Pisgah Baptist Church of East St. Louis, Illinois. Dr. Lyles served the Convention with distinction from 1968 to 1984. During the Annual Session of June 1984, Dr. Clayborn Salter was elected President of Baptist General State Convention. Dr. Salter, Pastor of the New Zion Baptist Church of Rockford, Illinois, brought revitalization to the State Convention as its President. He initiated a Unified Budget for the Convention, incorporating all of its Auxiliaries, as well as instituting a per capita basis for fair church representation. During the Salter administration, tenure was made a part of the Constitution, limiting all state officers to no more than two (2) three year terms in office. Dr. Clayborn Salter completed his term in office in 1990 having reinvigorated the work of the Convention. The Annual Session of June 1990 was held at the Shiloh Baptist Church of Chicago. During the meeting, the Reverend Dr. Shelvin Jerome Hall was unanimously elected to serve as President of the Baptist General State Convention of Illinois. During Dr. Hall’s administration, giving to and through the State Convention dramatically increased. The Convention was in the best financial condition of its 92 year history, and was recognized nationwide as a leading Convention of Black Baptists. On June 6, 1996, Reverend Lundy Savage, Pastor of the Mount Olive Baptist Church of Champaign, Illinois, was elected the 14th President of Baptist General State Convention in Peoria, Illinois at the 94th Annual Session hosted by New Morning Star Baptist Church, Reverend Cleveland Thomas, Pastor. In June 2002, Baptist General State Convention of Illinois celebrated its centennial year. This celebration included the beginning of a new administration. The Reverend Dr. Alvin Love, Pastor of Lilydale First Baptist Church of Chicago, was elected the 15th President of the Convention. Dr. Love immediately continued to build upon the foundation of his predecessors by aligning the Convention with the 21st Century order. He establish a website; updated the office equipment to meet the needs of the entire convention and its constituency; reinstituted an executive board; assigned the Vice Presidents to regions; established new commissions; created channels for networking with suburban, as well as denominational affiliates; and raised the attendance, finance, and excitement about the Convention. In 2003, Baptist General made history in its Annual Session by conducting its first baptismal service. This was made possible by the efforts of the Evangelism Commission, which canvassed the Rockford, Illinois community. Several souls were baptized, and dispersed to the area churches. Dr. Love’s position with the Trinity Christian College marked another opportunity for Baptist General State Convention. He negotiated the usage of its entire campus, along with its dormitory facility to house the youth, for the Congress of Christian Education 2003 Session. June 2008 in Collinsville, Illinois, Rev. Louis E. Malone, Pastor of St. Luke Baptist Church, Rockford, Illinois was elected to lead Baptist General as its 16th President. President Malone embarked on a journey toward Healthy Churches during his administration. Over the course of his tenure, President Malone “sailed” six ships – Leadership -2008-2009; Followship – 2009-2010; Discipleship 2010-2011; Stewardship – 2011-2012; Fellowship – 2012-2013; and Worship -2013-2014. Also during his tenure, President Malone led the charge to amend the constitution of the Convention eliminating the election of auxiliary officers and making them appointments of the President. These changes also established the Moderators Department as the Board of Directors for the Convention. The Convention returned to Southern Illinois and reestablished the Carbondale and Cairo region as a vital part of Baptist General. In addition, he mandated that the Convention Board meetings begin rotating again to all regions of the state to introduce and reintroduce the entire constituency to our convention. Through financial support and the physical labor of the Layman’s Auxiliary, Baptist General was able to provide natural disaster relief to its member churches. President Malone’s administration expanded the use of available technology with the commission of a website administrator responsible for redesigning the web page and managing the convention’s online presence. Email communication and News Flashes were sent regularly to keep the constituency informed and connected to the local, state, and national work. President Malone gave his final address as President of the Convention during the Annual Session in June 2013. June 2014 in Springfield, Illinois, Dr. William H. Foster, Jr., Pastor of Providence Baptist Church, Chicago, Illinois was elected to lead Baptist General State Convention as its 17th President. Baptist General State Convention of Illinois | 3609 W. Harmon Highway | Peoria, IL. 61604 | 309.676.8983 | news@bgscil.org ©2026 Baptist General State Convention of Illinois. All Rights Reserved. PEWPLE WEBSITES.


--- [Minutes of the Wood River Baptist Association] ---
| dc.contributor.author | Wood River Colored Baptist Association (Ill.) | | | dc.contributor.author | Wood River Baptist District Association (Ill.) | | | dc.contributor.author | Wood River Baptist Association (Ill.) | | | dc.date.accessioned | 2017-12-19T19:23:59Z | | | dc.date.available | 2017-12-19T19:23:59Z | | | dc.date.issued | 1864 | | | dc.identifier.other | BMC 286.173 .IL6 W85 | | | dc.identifier.uri | http://hdl.handle.net/10392/5453 | | | dc.description | Association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. | en_US | | dc.language.iso | en_US | en_US | | dc.publisher | S. V. Crossman & Co. | en_US | | dc.subject | Baptist associations Illinois Periodicals. | en_US | | dc.subject | Baptists Illinois Periodicals. | en_US | | dc.subject | African American churches Illinois Periodicals. | en_US | | dc.subject | African American Baptists Illinois Periodicals. | en_US | | dc.subject | Wood River Colored Baptist Association (Ill.) | en_US | | dc.subject | Wood River Baptist District Association (Ill.) | en_US | | dc.subject | Wood River Baptist Association (Ill.) | en_US | | dc.title | Minutes of the Wood River Baptist Association | en_US | | dc.title.alternative | Minutes of the Wood River Colored Baptist Association | en_US | | dc.type | Text | en_US |


--- [Wood River Baptist District Association, Inc - HISTORICAL PREVIEW] ---
The Oldest Continuous Baptist District in The Nation Historic Highlights Among the long list of unsung heroes and untold stories which are a part of African American Baptist heritage, perhaps none have been quite so unheard of as that of the history and contributions of the Wood River Baptist District association of Illinois. Among the many publicized works of American Church history, one often finds no mention of this story at all. In the accounts of most American Baptist church histories published during this century, one occasionally finds brief sketches, or perhaps a paragraph here or there, and sometimes even a few pages about African American church history. Often, however there is no mention of one of the most important movements of African American Baptist history, and that is the Wood River Baptist District Association movement. Most of these general histories of Baptists in America, spend much of their time dealing with Negro Baptists, or Black Baptists, in terms of their relationship to the particular Baptist body to which the historian belongs, or is writing about; but they do not go into enough detail about African American Baptist history to even mention the Wood River Baptist District Association story. In a few of these general volumes of Baptist history (especially those published since the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's and 1970's), one occasionally finds a whole section, or even a brief chapter on African American Baptists; but, again, nothing, or only a few lines on one of the most important stories of the African Baptist Church, the story of Wood River. In most instances, therefore, one who is searching for any good account of the Wood River Baptist District Association is forced to go directly to African American Baptist histories that are written by African Americans. In spite of its inadequate treatment in history, Wood River Baptist District Association of Illinois is the oldest continuous African American Baptist Association in the country today; and it has continually influenced the religion and lives of numerous African Americans from the nineteenth century antebellum period to the present. It may even be the oldest African American Baptist Association in the world. As of 2012, the association has existed for more than one hundred and seventy three years following the date of the publication, "The History of Wood River Baptist District Association", published and copy written in 1996 by Wood River Baptist District Association. Dr. Orville B. Jones, Jr. served through the 173rd Annual Session which closed out at Mt. Zion Baptist Church, Moline, Il.. 2014 will mark 175 years of continuous service and will celebrate this occasion in Alton, Il, July 2014. Dr. Joseph Williamson, III now serves as Moderator. The Primary writer for this historic publication was authored by The Reverend Dr. Eddie Mabry, PhD, currently 2202 North Main, Decatur, Illinois 62526


--- [Minutes of the ... annual session : Wood River Baptist Association (Ill ...] ---
Minutes of the ... annual session Bookreader Item Preview Share or Embed This Item - Topics - Wood River Baptist Association (Ill.), African American Baptists -- Illinois, Baptists -- Illinois, Baptist associations -- Illinois - Publisher - [Ill.? : The Association?] - Collection - americana - Contributor - University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign - Language - English - Item Size - 118.9M v. ; 20-23 cm Description based on: 44th (1884) Association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. Cf. Minutes of the 19th (1864) annual meeting / Baptist General Association of Illinois, p. 39 Description based on: 44th (1884) Association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. Cf. Minutes of the 19th (1864) annual meeting / Baptist General Association of Illinois, p. 39 - Addeddate - 2008-03-04 20:03:06 - Call number - 2254302 - Camera - Canon 5D - External-identifier - urn:oclc:record:1049619905 - Foldoutcount - 0 - Identifier - minutesofannuals00wood - Identifier-ark - ark:/13960/t5n87849x - Ocr_converted - abbyy-to-hocr 1.1.37 - Ocr_module_version - 0.0.21 - Openlibrary_edition - OL22886578M - Openlibrary_work - OL13701374W - Page_number_confidence - 96 - Page_number_module_version - 1.0.3 - Pages - 92 - Possible copyright status - NOT_IN_COPYRIGHT - Ppi - 500 - Scandate - 20080304204651 - Scanner - scribe2 - Scanningcenter - il - Worldcat (source edition) - 50703862 - Full catalog record - MARCXML comment Reviews 1,008 Views DOWNLOAD OPTIONS For users with print-disabilities IN COLLECTIONS Uploaded by Unknown on


--- [Baptist History Homepage] ---
MINUTES OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE WOOD RIVER COLORED BAPTIST ASSOCIATION WITH THE MOUNT EMORY BAPTIST CHURCH, MORGAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS - AUGUST 18, 19, 20 & 21, A. D. 1864. This association began in 1839 and was composed of African American churches. Their records are very detailed – 20 pages. This portion includes the Constitution, Articles of Faith, Covenant and Appendix. p. 15 The Constitution of this association is: Article 1st. This Association shall be called the Association of Colored Brethren of the Baptist Church of Christ, and Friends of Humanity, in Illinois. Art. 2. The Association shall consist of ministers and delegates; ministers by virtue of their office, delegates by delegated authority from the churches to which they belong. Art. 3. The Officers of the Association shall be a Moderator. Clerk, Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, all to be chosen annually by the Association. Art. 4. The Annual Association in the district to be held at such time and place as may have been previously appointed. Art. 5. The Annual Association shall possess authority to adopt all such measures as may be considered best calculated to promote the prosperity of the general union, and advance the Redeemer's Kingdom; to advise and consult on all methods which the churches may at any time present, to receive and drop from its union; but no legislative authority whatever, is by said Association, to be exercised over its Churches. . Art. 6. The Constitution may be amended at any Regular Association, by a vote of two-thirds of the members present - notice having been given at a previous Association.ARTICLES OF FAITH AND COVENANT. ARTICLES OF FAITH.OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES. Article 1. We believe that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments were written by men, under the influence of Divine Inspiration, and contain a perfect treasure of instruction from God, to guide unto knowledge and practice of the Divine will, and that they reveal the criterion by which all human creeds and actions shall be tried. OF THE TRUE GOD. Art. 2. That there is one and only true and living God, the Creator of heaven and earth, who is a spirit holy, just, merciful, unchangeable, almighty and omniscient, worthy of our supreme love, adoration and praise. OF THE TRINITY. Art. 3. That God is revealed in the Scriptures, as existing in p. 16 three personal distinctions, the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost, equal in every divine perfection, constituting the one true and living God. OF MAN. Art. 4. That God created man holy, and that by his own voluntary transgression, he became a sinner. That mankind are now destitute of holiness, possessed of a sinful nature, given to unholy gratification and the service of Satan, and are exposed to the eternal displeasure of their Maker. OF SALVATION. Art. 5. That God, of his own free and sovereign grace, has opened a way of salvation from sin, through Jesus Christ, who, taking upon himself human nature, and laying down his life in our behalf, rendered to the divine law such satisfaction that God may now be just in justifying every one that believeth in Jesus. That Jesus Christ, having risen from the dead, and ascended to the right hand of the majesty on high, as our Mediator, is able to save to the uttermost, all that come to God by him; that through the atonement, salvation is freely offered to all men. OF REGENERATION. Art. 6. That in order to enjoy the benefits of Christ's death, in the gift of eternal life, we must be regenerated, or born again. That regeneration consists in giving a holy disposition to the heart, and is effected by the Holy Spirit, in such a way as to secure our voluntary obedience to the laws of Christ. The evidences of regeneration are the fruit of the Spirit evinced in the temper and conduct. OF GOD'S PURPOSE OF GRACE. Art. 7. That God, according to his own good pleasure, determined to save from the ruins of the fall, a seed who should be to the praise of the glory of His grace. That He effects his gracious purpose by regenerating and saving his people, whom he foreknew, the means being embraced in the purpose. that this doctrine produces humility, encourages to diligence to make our calling sure. That it does not interfere with the free agency of man, nor with the willingness of God to accept every true penitent. OF THE PERSEVERANCE OF THE SAINTS. Art. 8. That such only, are truly born of God, as continue to the end of life. That a persevering attachment to the gospel is the grand distinction between the truly regenerated and superficial religionist; the children of God being preserved by his favor through faith unto salvation. OF THE END OF THE RIGHTEOUS AND THE WICKED. Art. 9. That there will, at the last day, be a resurrection of the just and unjust. that all shall be assembled before the judgment p. 18 seat of Christ, and receive, from him a righteous sentence, according to what each has done; the wicked doomed to everlasting punishment, and the righteous received into eternal life. OF A GOSPEL CHURCH. Art. 10. That a gospel church is a congregation of baptized believers, associated by covenant, for the purpose of maintaining the worship of God, the preaching of His word, and the administration of the ordinances appointed by Christ, and to observe all his laws. That, subject to the laws of Christ, each church has authority to receive and discipline its own members, and choose its officers. That its only officers are bishops and deacons, whose qualifications, duties and claims are defined in the Epistles to Timothy and Titus. OF BAPTISM. Art. 11. That christian baptism is the immersion of a believer in water, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is a solemn and expressive emblem of the believers, of faith in the Savior, crucified, buried and risen, and is It sacred engagement to walk henceforth in newness of life. OF THE LORD'S SUPPER. Art. 12. That the Lord's Supper is an institution of Christ, given to the church, by which, such as have been baptized and continued steadfastly in the Apostle's doctrine and in fellowship, are to commemorate the dying love of Jesus Christ.OF THE LORD'S DAY. Art. 13. That the first day of the week, or the Lord's flay, is to be observed as the christian Sabbath abstaining from secular employment and recreations, and by a devout use of all the means of grace, in private and public, as preparatory to an everlasting rest in heaven.COVENANT. Having been, as we humbly trust, by the grace of God, brought to a knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus, and to give ourselves wholly to Him, we do now solemnly covenant with each other, to walk together in love, according to his new commandment. We, therefore, in his strength, engage that we will, as members of the body of Christ, exercise a mutual care of each other, to promote the growth of the whole body in christian knowledge, holiness benevolence, zeal and comfort. That to promote and secure this knowledge, we will maintain the public worship of God, and the ordinances of his house; and that we will not forsake the assembling of ourselves together in the name of Jesus. That, according to our ability, we will cheerfully contribute of our property, to relieve the needy, to send the gospel to the destitute, and to maintain a faithful ministration of God's word among ourselves. p. 19 That we will faithfully and constantly observe closet and family religion, and endeavor to bring up those under our care, in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That we will walk circumspectly and honestly in the world, abstaining- from sinful amusements, and vain conversation, and from the use of intoxicating drinks, and traffic in them as a beverage; and that we will not provide them as an article of entertainment, or for those in our employ; and that in all suitable ways we will discourage their use throughout the community. That we will discountenance all oppression of our fellow men, and the withholding of just wages among ourselves and others, as far as our influence may extend.That we will frequently exhort, if occasion shall require, and admonish one another, in the spirit of meekness, according to Matthew, 18th chapter. And may the God of Peace cause our peace to abound through faith in Christ, working in us that which is well pleasing in His sight, preserving ns from evil, that we may abound in every good word and work, knowing that our labor is not in vain in the Lord; to whom be praise, forever and ever. Amen. p. 20Appendix – List of Churches Union B. C., Alton, Ill.[From Minutes of the Twenty-Sixth Annual Session of the Wood River Colored Baptist Association, 1864, pp. 14-20; via SBTS Archives digital documents. Scanned and formatted by Jim Duvall.] Mt. Emory B. C., Jacksonville, Ill. Springfield B. C., Springfield, Ill. Bethel B. C., Belleville, Ill. Salem B. C., Alton, Ill. Piasa B. C., Piasa, Ill. Antioch B. C., Brooklyn, Ill. Olivet B. C., Chicago, Ill. Antioch B. C., Decatur, Ill. Mt. Olive B. C., Jerseyville, Ill. Racine B. C., Racine, Wisconsin.Total membership in the churches - 600 ========= More Illinois Baptist History Baptist History Homepage
