=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Linda Lingle - Wikipedia]
Linda Lingle (née Cutter; June 4, 1953) is an American politician and publisher who served as the sixth governor of Hawaii from 2002 to 2010. A member of the Republican Party, she was the first Republican elected governor of Hawaii since 1959, and was the state's first female and Jewish governor. Prior to serving as governor, Lingle served as mayor of Maui County from 1991 to 1999 and as ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linda_Lingle

[Linda Lingle - Jewish Women's Archive]
Linda Lingle was only the second Jewish woman to be elected a United States governor when she became governor of Hawaii in 2002. Previously serving on the Maui County Council and as Maui's mayor, Lingle became Hawaii's first woman and Jewish governor when she was elected.
URL: https://jwa.org/encyclopedia/article/lingle-linda

[Linda Lingle biography. American politician, sixth governor of the ...]
Biography of Linda Lingle Early Life Linda Lingle, an American politician and the sixth governor of the state of Hawaii, was born Linda Catter in St. Louis, Missouri in 1953. She moved to Southern California with her family when she was twelve years old. After graduating from high school in Lake Balboa, she attended the University of California, where she earned a bachelor&039;s degree in ...
URL: https://biographs.org/linda-lingle

[Linda Lingle - Jewish Virtual Library]
At 37, she was the youngest person to be elected mayor there; she was also the first woman and the only non-Maui-born person to have held the office. She served two terms as mayor, focusing on the growth of the tourism industry and the development of new jobs. Lingle ran for governor of Hawaii in 1998, losing by less than one percent of the vote.
URL: https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/lingle-linda

[Linda Lingle - National Governors Association]
Dec 2, 2002 · LINDA LINGLE is a native of St. Louis, Missouri. She moved to Hawai‘i in 1975 after graduating cum laude with a journalism degree from California State University, Northridge. In 1976, she founded and served as editor and publisher of the Moloka‘i Free Press. She first served the people of Hawai‘i from 1980 to 1990 as […]
URL: https://www.nga.org/governor/linda-lingle/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Linda Lingle - Wikipedia] ---
Linda Lingle (née Cutter; June 4, 1953) is an American politician and publisher who served as the sixth governor of Hawaii from 2002 to 2010. A member of the Republican Party, she was the first Republican elected governor of Hawaii since 1959, and was the state's first female and Jewish governor. Prior to serving as governor, Lingle served as mayor of Maui County from 1991 to 1999 and as chair of the Hawaii Republican Party from 1999 to 2002. As of 2025, Lingle and her lieutenant governor, Duke Aiona, are the last Republicans to have won or held statewide office in Hawaii.
During the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York City, Lingle served as chair of the convention during the absence of permanent chair Dennis Hastert from the convention floor. In 2012, she was the Republican nominee for the United States Senate, vying unsuccessfully for an open seat vacated by retiring U.S. Senator Daniel Akaka. She is the only woman to have served as Hawaii's governor.
In January 2015, Lingle was appointed as a senior adviser to Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner, and left the position in July 2016.  She also served on the Governors' Council of the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Lingle moved back to Hawaii in the second quarter of 2017 and became a member of Hawaii Pacific University's board of trustees in June 2017.


--- [Linda Lingle - Jewish Women's Archive] ---
Linda Lingle Born in Missouri, Linda Lingle moved to Hawaii after graduating from California State University, Northridge, in 1975. She founded a community newspaper, the Molokai Free Press, which she ran until she joined the Maui County Council in 1980, serving for ten years. In 1990, she became mayor of Maui County in an upset election and was re-elected four years later. Although she lost her first bid for governor in 1998 by a mere one percentage point, she successfully campaigned in 2002 on a platform of economic growth through deregulation and opposition to corruption, becoming the state’s first woman and Jewish governor. In 2012, she ran for a senate seat but was defeated by Maizie Hirono, whom Lingle had defeated in the 2002 gubernatorial race. Early Life and Education When Linda Lingle was sworn in as governor of Hawaii (a state with a Jewish population of less than one percent) in late 2002, she was only the second Jewish woman to be elected governor. The first, Madeleine Kunin, became Vermont’s governor in 1985. Linda Cutter was born in St. Louis, Missouri, on June 4, 1953, the second of three children. While Cutter was in junior high school, her family moved to southern California; her parents divorced in 1965, soon after the move, and for a time she lived with her grandparents. She attended Birmingham High School, a public school in Van Nuys, and then went on to California State University Northridge, where she graduated with a cum laude journalism degree in 1975. While at Cal State Northridge she met her first husband, Charles Lingle, whom she divorced after three years of marriage. Lingle then followed her father, a former pharmacist who had joined his brother’s car dealership, to Hawaii. She began working as a public information officer for the Teamsters and Hotel Workers Union in Honolulu before moving to Molokai. On her new home island, she founded a community newspaper, the Molokai Free Press. Career in Government In 1980, Lingle closed the newspaper and commenced her political career when she became a member of the Maui County Council. She served there for ten years before her upset election as mayor of Maui County in 1990; she was re-elected four years later. Running for governor in 1998, Lingle came within a percentage point of victory. She took over as head of Hawaii’s Republican Party the following year, seeking to create a centrist image for the GOP in a state with a huge Democratic majority. (Examples of her moderate stances include support of abortion rights and opposition to the death penalty.) Success in the governor’s race came in 2002, when Lingle defeated Democrat Mazie K. Hirono to become the state of Hawaii’s sixth governor (and the first woman). She ran on a platform that emphasized economic growth through deregulation and opposition to corruption. Her most ambitious and controversial proposal was to restructure the state’s public education system. However, Lingle’s attempt to decentralize control of the schools was stymied by the Democrat-controlled legislature. Lingle’s status as a Jew was open and publicly honored in Hawaii. Each Monday, Lingle began her week with a study session with the local Chabad rabbi, Itchel Krasnjansky, and each Friday a fresh challah was delivered to the statehouse. Her religion did not lead to much political controversy other than crankish, conspiratorial hate mail and websites that Lingle herself publicized in order to contrast them with Hawaii’s tradition of ethnic tolerance. Yet few Hawaiians know much about Judaism, so Lingle did attract attention when she held a Lit. "order." The regimen of rituals, songs and textual readings performed in a specific order on the first two nights (in Israel, on the first night) of Passover.seder at the governor’s mansion or lit a public Lit. "dedication." The 8-day "Festival of Lights" celebrated beginning on the 25th day of the Hebrew month of Kislev to commemorate the victory of the Jews over the Seleucid army in 164 B.C.E., the re-purification of the Temple and the miraculous eight days the Temple candelabrum remained lit from one cruse of undefiled oil which would have been enough to keep it burning for only one day.Hanukkah menorah. In her youth, Lingle attended Reform services and Sunday school, deposited dimes in Jewish National Fund “pushkes,” and learned from her paternal grandmother about older forms of antisemitism. Even after moving to California, her social world was almost exclusively Jewish, at least until she arrived at college. Lingle’s Jewish connections helped her in the political arena, at the very least in the realm of finances. When she won the governor’s race in 2002, it was with the aid of the largest campaign war chest ever assembled in Hawaii history. A significant portion of the money came from outside the state, with organizations such as the Republican Jewish Coalition and the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) helping to attract funds. In turn, Lingle was outspoken in her support of Israel and in 2004 led a well-publicized delegation to the Jewish state. Married and divorced a second time—from attorney William Crockett in 1997—Lingle was the first governor of Hawaii to have no children. Her volunteer public service has included working as a reading tutor, as well as involvement with the Girl Scouts and the YWCA. Lingle has been retired from her position as governor since 2010 and does not plan on returning to the world of politics. Since then, she has taught a public policy course at her alma mater, and acted as senior advisor to the then-governor of Illinois, Bruce Rauner, before returning to Hawaii in 2017. She has also been an active voice in support of women’s prison reform and against the legalization of recreational cannabis in the state of Hawaii.


--- [Linda Lingle biography. American politician, sixth governor of the ...] ---
Linda LingleAmerican politician, sixth governor of the state of Hawaii Date of Birth: 04.06.1953 Country: USA | Content: Biography of Linda Lingle Early LifeLinda Lingle, an American politician and the sixth governor of the state of Hawaii, was born Linda Catter in St. Louis, Missouri in 1953. She moved to Southern California with her family when she was twelve years old. After graduating from high school in Lake Balboa, she attended the University of California, where she earned a bachelor's degree in journalism. Political Career After completing university, Linda moved to Hawaii with her father and worked as a public relations officer for local labor groups in Honolulu. She then moved to Molokai and launched a community newspaper called "Molokai Free Press." Linda was married and divorced twice, and she currently does not have any children. Mayor of Maui County In 1980, Linda was elected to the Maui County Council, where she served for five two-year terms. During her time on the council, she represented Molokai for three terms. After the mayor of Maui County resigned in 1990, Linda decided to run for the position. Despite being initially behind in the polls, she managed to defeat her opponent and became the youngest person and the first woman ever elected as mayor of Maui County. Governor of Hawaii In 1998, Linda ran for governor of Hawaii, as she was unable to seek another term as mayor. The Republican Party nominated her as their candidate against Benjamin Cayetano. Linda based her campaign on the dissatisfaction of the local economy, and despite initial polling indicating Cayetano as the favorite, Linda surprised everyone by coming within 1 percent of him on election day. Although she was initially declared the loser, the small margin made history in the state. Cayetano was unable to run for a third term, and Linda had gained even more popularity among the residents of Hawaii. In the subsequent election, she faced Vice Governor Mazie Hirono, making it one of the few gubernatorial races in which both major party candidates were women. Linda emerged victorious and became the first Republican governor of Hawaii since 1962, as well as the first female, Jewish, childless, and former mayor to hold the position. Legacy Linda Lingle's tenure as governor was marked by a focus on a productive budget and an increase in tourism and job creation. She left office in 2010 and continues to be a well-known figure in Hawaii politics.


--- [Linda Lingle - Jewish Virtual Library] ---
No content


--- [Linda Lingle - National Governors Association] ---
Hawaii Gov. Linda Lingle - December 2, 2002 - December 6, 2010 - Republican - June 4, 1953 - Missouri - California State University at Northridge About LINDA LINGLE is a native of St. Louis, Missouri. She moved to Hawai‘i in 1975 after graduating cum laude with a journalism degree from California State University, Northridge. In 1976, she founded and served as editor and publisher of the Moloka‘i Free Press. She first served the people of Hawai‘i from 1980 to 1990 as a member of the Maui County Council, including six years representing the island of Moloka‘i. In 1990, she was elected Mayor of Maui County and served two four-year terms. Lingle became Governor of Hawai’i in 2002, committed to bringing about a “New Beginning” for Hawai‘i by making state government more transparent, responsive, and accountable. She was reelected to a second four-year term in November 2006. Lingle’s administration sought to improve Hawai‘i residents’ unique quality of life and protect the state’s natural resources by reducing the economy’s over-dependence on land development. Toward this end, Lingle launched the Hawai‘i Innovation Initiative to develop the capacity of residents and businesses to innovate with the goal of enabling the state to compete in the global economy of the 21st century and create new, higher-paying jobs. Lingle also pursued greater energy independence, targeted tax relief, an increase in Hawai‘i’s homegrown food supply and security, workforce development, expansion of quality health care, creation of more affordable housing, modernization of the transportation infrastructure, and bolstering of public safety and disaster preparedness. Lingle was the first Republican and first woman to lead the Aloha State in more than 40 years. She is also the first former mayor, first neighbor island resident, and first person of Jewish ancestry to hold the position. In 2005, she was awarded the Diversity Best Practices Award for Leadership in Government—the first such award for a state’s chief executive. Source The Complete Marquis Who’s Who 2010. New Providence, NJ: Marquis Who’s Who.
