=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Madonna of Bruges - Wikipedia]
The work is also notable in that it was the first sculpture by Michelangelo to leave Italy during his lifetime. In 1504, it was bought by Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni (Mouscron) for 100 ducats. The Mouscron brothers were wealthy cloth merchants in Bruges, [1] then one of the leading commercial cities in Europe.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madonna_of_Bruges

[Madonna of Bruges explained]
The work is also notable in that it was the first sculpture by Michelangelo to leave Italy during his lifetime. In 1504, it was bought by Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni (Mouscron) for 100 ducats. The Mouscron brothers were wealthy cloth merchants in Bruges, [1] then one of the leading commercial cities in Europe.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Madonna_of_Bruges/

[Who stole the Madonna of Bruges? - StudyCountry.com]
Why is the Madonna of Bruges so important? The work is also notable in that it was the first sculpture by Michelangelo to leave Italy during his lifetime. In 1504, it was bought by Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni (Mouscron) for 100 ducats. The Mouscron brothers were wealthy cloth merchants in Bruges, then one of the leading commercial cities in Europe.
URL: https://www.studycountry.com/wiki/who-stole-the-madonna-of-bruges

[10 Wonderful Madonna of Bruges Facts | Ultimate List]
David by Michelangelo. / Wiki Commons 4. There's something very special about the Madonna of Bruges One of the most fascinating Madonna of Bruges facts is that it's the only sculpture of Michelangelo that left Italy during his lifetime. It was bought by two wealthy cloth merchants named Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni for 4,000 Florins.
URL: https://art-facts.com/madonna-of-bruges-facts/

[Franco-American travel story: Finding Michelangelo in Bruges]
Michelangelo created the beautiful Madonna of Bruges in 1504. She is not a large sculpture. When compared to the impressive size of ...
URL: https://julianalheureux.substack.com/p/franco-american-travel-story-finding


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Madonna of Bruges - Wikipedia] ---
The Madonna of Bruges is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo of the Virgin and Child.
Michelangelo's depiction of the Madonna and Child differs significantly from earlier representations of the same subject, which tended to feature a pious Virgin smiling down on an infant held in her arms.  Instead, Jesus stands upright, almost unsupported, only loosely restrained by Mary's left hand, and appears to be about to step away from his mother.  Meanwhile, Mary does not cling to her son or even look at him, but gazes down and away.  It is believed the work was originally intended for an altar piece.  If this is so, then it would have been displayed facing slightly to the right and looking down. The early 16th-century sculpture also displays the High Renaissance Pyramid style frequently seen in the works of Leonardo da Vinci during the late 1400s.
Madonna and Child shares certain similarities with Michelangelo's Pietà, which was completed shortly before – mainly, Mary's flowing robe, and the movement of the drapery.  The long, oval face of Mary is also reminiscent of the Pietà. 
The work is also notable in that it was the first sculpture by Michelangelo to leave Italy during his lifetime.  In 1504, it was bought by Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni (Mouscron) for 100 ducats. The Mouscron brothers were wealthy cloth merchants in Bruges, then one of the leading commercial cities in Europe. 
The sculpture was removed twice from Belgium after its initial arrival.  The first was in 1794 after French Revolutionaries had conquered the Austrian Netherlands during the French Revolutionary Wars; the citizens of Bruges were ordered to ship it and several other valuable works of art to Paris. It was returned after Napoleon's final defeat at Waterloo in 1815. 
The second removal was in 1944, during World War II, with the retreat of German soldiers, who smuggled the sculpture to Germany enveloped in mattresses in a Red Cross truck. It was discovered a year later in Altaussee, Austria within a salt mine and again returned.  It now sits in the Church of Our Lady in Bruges, Belgium. This is represented in the 2014 film The Monuments Men.


--- [Madonna of Bruges explained] ---
No content


--- [Who stole the Madonna of Bruges? - StudyCountry.com] ---
No content


--- [10 Wonderful Madonna of Bruges Facts | Ultimate List] ---
It’s one of the most marvelous sculptures of one of the most famous artists of the Renaissance. In this post, you’ll discover the ultimate list of Madonna of Bruges facts, a fascinating sculpture by Michelangelo. 1. Michelangelo created it when he was still in his twenties Michelangelo Buonarroti was still a teenager when he started creating marvelous sculptures in Florence, so the Madonna of Bruges definitely wasn’t his first work. He was, however, still a young man because he was born in the year 1475 and created this sculpture depicting the Virgin Mary and her Child Jesus Christ between 1501 and 1504. This means he was in his late twenties when he completed it. 2. It’s located in a marvelous church in Bruges The name refers to both the sculpture, which is that of the Virgin Mary referred to as the “Madonna,” and the location it’s being held. That’s the amazing church called “Onze-Lieve-Vrouwekerk” or “Church of Our Lady” in Bruges, Belgium. In the early 16th century, Bruges was one of the wealthiest cities in Europe and is still described as the “Venice of the North. The church has been described as: “A monument to the wealth, sophistication, taste, and devotion of this most Catholic city, whose history and faith stand today celebrated in this wonderful building.” 3. It’s a relatively big sculpture Michelangelo didn’t mind creating enormous sculptures, and the madonna of Bruges isn’t different. This marble sculpture stands about 2 meters (79 inches) tall. Michelangelo completed the even bigger Statue of David the same year he completed the Madonna of Bruges. David stands about 5.17 meters tall (17 feet) and is so big because it was intended to decorate the roof of the Cathedral of Florence. 4. There’s something very special about the Madonna of Bruges One of the most fascinating Madonna of Bruges facts is that it’s the only sculpture of Michelangelo that left Italy during his lifetime. It was bought by two wealthy cloth merchants named Giovanni and Alessandro Moscheroni for 4,000 Florins. Until today, the sculpture is the only one of the artist in the Low Countries (Belgium and The Netherlands). 5. It differs a lot from earlier depictions of the Madonna and Child The Madonna with Child was a very popular type of sculpture at the time and most of the sculptures depicted the Virgin Mary looking down at her child while smiling and caressing her baby. With this sculpture, Mary seems to be looking away from her child while barely holding him with her left hand. a clear difference compared to earlier depictions. 6. The sculpture has a melancholic twist about it So why is it that Mary doesn’t seem to care about her baby Jesus? If you look closely, you can see that the child even tends to be moving away from her. The change in depiction indicates that Mary is sad about what is to become of her son, which is part of the realism of the Renaissance instead of trying to portray things overly positive. 7. It does resemble one of his most famous sculptures One of the most interesting Madonna of Bruges facts is that the style it was sculpted in resembles the same style Michelangelo used in one of his most famous sculptures. This sculpture is called the “Pietà” and is located in the St Peter’s Basilica in Rome, and was completed between 1498 and 1499. This High Renaissance Pyramid style wasn’t unique to Michelangelo but was also used by various other artists, including some of the famous works of Italian polymath Leonardo da Vinci. 8. It was stolen by the French during the Revolution The first time that the sculpture was moved out of Belgium was during the French Revolution. The revolutionaries conquered what was then the Austrian Netherlands to which Bruges belonged in 1794 and seized numerous works of art, including Michelangelo’s famous sculpture in Bruges. The sculpture was shipped to Paris but was ultimately returned when Napoleon Bonaparte was defeated in the Battle of Waterloo in 1815. 9. It was stolen again during World War II Who would have thought that the Nazis would be capable of stealing vast amounts of world-famous art, right? Well, they did, and the Madonna of Bruges was one of the thousands of pieces of art that were stolen by retreating Germans in the year 1944. They had to use an ingenious trick though as the statue was wrapped in mattresses and hidden in a Red Cross truck. What happened next remains unclear, but it was one of the numerous works of art, including over 6,500 paintings, that were recovered from a salt mine near the Austrian town of Altaussee. This mine was used as a storage facility by the Nazis, and the sculpture was brought back to Belgium from here once again. 10. The discovery of the Madonna of Bruges was featured in a Hollywood movie The recovery of the pieces of art from the Altaussee salt mine was featured in a 2014 Hollywood movie named “The Monuments Men” and features George Clooney, Matt Damon, Jean Dujardin, and Cate Blanchett. It tells the story of how about 400 service members and civilians led an operation between 1943 and 1946 to recover the vast amounts of art stolen by the Nazis. The discovery at Altaussee was one of the major achievements of this operation and allowed the sculpture to return home safely to Bruges where it had been located for multiple centuries!


--- [Franco-American travel story: Finding Michelangelo in Bruges] ---
No content
