=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland - Wikiwand]
Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland, PC [1] (born 11 March 1957) is the current Lord President of the Court of Session and Lord Justice General, the most senior judge in Scotland. He is a former Solicitor General for Scotland, Senator of the College of Justice and Chairman of the Scottish Law Commission.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Paul_Cullen,_Lord_Pentland

[Lord Pentland - scts judiciary]
In 1995, he was appointed Solicitor-General for Scotland and held this office until the general election in 1997. He then returned to practice at the Bar, specialising in commercial law and public law. Earlier in his career, Lord Pentland was standing junior counsel to the Department of the Environment in Scotland.
URL: https://judiciary.scot/home/judiciary/judicial-office-holders/senators-of-the-college-of-justice/lord-pentland

[Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland]
Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland, PC [1] (born 11 March 1957) is the current Lord President of the Court of Session and Lord Justice General
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Cullen,_Lord_Pentland

[Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland Explained]
Nov 7, 1995 · Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland, [1] (born 11 March 1957) is a former Solicitor General for Scotland, a Senator of the College of Justice (a judge of the country's Supreme Courts) and former chairman of the Scottish Law Commission.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Paul_Cullen%2c_Lord_Pentland/

[Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland - Alchetron, the free social ...]
Oct 7, 2024 · Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland (11 March 1957) is a former Solicitor General for Scotland, a Senator of the College of Justice (a judge of the country's Supreme Courts) and Chairman of the Scottish Law Commission. Born in Gosforth, Northumberland, he was educated at St Augustine's High School,
URL: https://alchetron.com/Paul-Cullen,-Lord-Pentland


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Lord Pentland - scts judiciary] ---
The Right Hon Lord Pentland (Paul Cullen) Lord Pentland was appointed as Lord President by His Majesty the King and was sworn in at a ceremony in the Court of Session on 3 February 2025. Lord Pentland has been a judge of Scotland’s Supreme Courts (the Court of Session and the High Court of Justiciary) since 2008. He has presided over a number of high-profile criminal trials as well as significant civil cases and has been an appeal court judge since 2020. Between 2014 and 2018 he was chairman of the Scottish Law Commission, the country’s independent law reform body. Lord Pentland was admitted to the Faculty of Advocates in 1982 and became a Queen’s Counsel in 1995. He served as an Advocate Depute (Crown prosecutor in the High Court) between 1991 and 1994. In 1995, he was appointed Solicitor-General for Scotland and held this office until the general election in 1997. He then returned to practice at the Bar, specialising in commercial law and public law. Earlier in his career, Lord Pentland was standing junior counsel to the Department of the Environment in Scotland. He also held appointments as Chairman of the Police Appeals Tribunal and as Chairman of the Appeal Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Between April 2001 and May 2002, he was Chairman of the Public Inquiry into a serious incident of limestone mining subsidence in the Gilmerton area of Edinburgh.


--- [Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland] ---
Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland,  (born 11 March 1957) is the current Lord President of the Court of Session and Lord Justice General, the most senior judge in Scotland. He is a former Solicitor General for Scotland, Senator of the College of Justice and Chairman of the Scottish Law Commission.




--- [Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland Explained] ---
No content


--- [Paul Cullen, Lord Pentland - Alchetron, the free social ...] ---
Appointed by Elizabeth II Full Name Paul Cullen Role Justice | Name Paul Lord Preceded by Lord Macfadyen Spouse(s) Joyce Nicol | | Succeeded by Colin Boyd, Baron Boyd of Duncansby | || Paul Benedict Cullen, Lord Pentland (11 March 1957) is a former Solicitor General for Scotland, a Senator of the College of Justice (a judge of the country's Supreme Courts) and Chairman of the Scottish Law Commission. Contents Early life Born in Gosforth, Northumberland, he was educated at St Augustine's High School, Edinburgh and at the School of Law of the University of Edinburgh. Legal career Cullen was admitted to the Faculty of Advocates in 1982, devilling for Alan Rodger QC. He tutored part-time at the Faculty of Law at the University of Edinburgh from 1982 to 1986, when he was elected Clerk of the Faculty of Advocates, serving until 1991. He was Standing Junior Counsel to the Department of the Environment in Scotland from 1988–91 and appointed an Advocate Depute in 1992, becoming a Queen's Counsel in 1995. A member of the Conservative Party, he became Solicitor General for Scotland, the junior Law Officer in Scotland, in 1995, when Donald Mackay succeeded Lord Rodger of Earlsferry as Lord Advocate, the senior Law Officer. He held this post until the Labour election victory in 1997, when he was succeeded by Colin Boyd, who later became Lord Advocate. He was the Chairman of the public inquiry into the Gilmerton Limestone Emergency in 2001-2002, and has been Chairman of the Appeal Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and of the Police Appeals Tribunal. In 2003, The Scotsman named him the seventieth highest earner in Scotland, and third highest earner at the Bar, after Richard Keen QC (who was sixty-first with earnings of £600,000 and a former Dean of the Faculty) and Michael Jones, Lord Jones (who was fifty-fifth with earnings of £750,000). He was involved in a number of high-profile cases, including the Countryside Alliance challenge to the Scottish fox-hunting ban, judicial review connected to the Stockline Plastics factory explosion, and the first two appeals to the Inner House of the Court of Session under the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 and the first such appeal to the House of Lords. Political career Cullen contested the Eastwood constituency at the 1997 general election for the Conservative Party, but finished in second place to Jim Murphy of the Labour Party. All Conservative Party representation was wiped out from Scottish constituencies at that election. Cullen served as Vice-President of the Edinburgh South Conservative Association from 1997 until he took the bench in 2008. He represented the Scottish Conservative Party on the Consultative Steering Group in 1998-99 which helped prepare procedures for the new Scottish Parliament. He was appointed Chairman of the Disciplinary Panel of the Scottish Conservatives in 2000. The Bench In November 2008, Cullen was appointed as a Senator of the College of Justice, a judge of the High Court of Justiciary and Court of Session, the Supreme Courts of Scotland. He took the judicial title, Lord Pentland,. In 2010 he was appointed as a member of the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber). He has also served as an Intellectual Property judge. Lord Pentland was appointed as Chairman of the Scottish Law Commission on 1 January 2014 for a period of five years. Sixty per cent of his time is spent on Law Commission duties with the remainder devoted to his judicial work. Personal life Cullen is married to Joyce Nicol, former Chairman of Brodies LLP (1983), with whom he has two sons and a daughter. He plays tennis and bridge, and is a member of the New Club.
