=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mayor of Kathmandu - Wikipedia]
The Mayor of Kathmandu is the head of the municipal executive of Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The officeholder is elected for a five-year term and limited to serving no more than two terms.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Kathmandu

[A mayoral history of Kathmandu]
May 13, 2017 — On December 15, 1995, Kathmandu Municipality was declared a Metropolitan City—accounting for its increasingly dense urban core. Which brings ...
URL: https://kathmandupost.com/miscellaneous/2017/05/13/a-mayoral-history-of-kathmandu

[Kathmandu city]
Feb 21, 2016 · After the restoration of democracy in 1990, PL Singh was elected the mayor of Kathmandu in 1992. It was Singh who declared Kathmandu a metropolitan city in 1995. In the 1997 elections, Keshav Sthapit was elected the mayor of Kathmandu. After his term expired in 2002, he was again nominated for the post by the government but he resigned in 2004.
URL: https://kathmandupost.com/opinion/2016/02/21/kathmandu-city

[2022 Kathmandu municipal election]
... mayor of Kathmandu. The municipality was declared as a metropolitan city in 1995 by then mayor Prem Lal Singh. Keshav Sthapit was the first elected mayor of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Kathmandu_municipal_election

[KMC to build full-size statue of its former mayor Singh]
Dec 29, 2024 — Kathmandu was declared a metropolitan city during the mayorship of the late Singh in 1995. Singh passed away at his Chaksibari residence in ...
URL: https://en.himalpress.com/kmc-to-build-full-size-statue-of-its-former-mayor-singh/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mayor of Kathmandu - Wikipedia] ---
The Mayor of Kathmandu is the head of the municipal executive of Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The officeholder is elected for a five-year term and limited to serving no more than two terms. The role was first created in 1932 during the Rana regime.
The current acting mayor is Sunita Dangol since 18 January 2026, who was elected as deputy mayor in the 2022 election and took office on 30 May 2022. The position has been held by fifteen people in a permanent capacity since its creation.
The city of Kathmandu is scrutinized by the Kathmandu Metropolitan City Municipal Assembly and the mayor is supported by the Municipal Executive which consists of ward chairs of all 32 wards of Kathmandu.


--- [A mayoral history of Kathmandu] ---
Miscellaneous A mayoral history of Kathmandu The last time Kathmandu elected a mayor to head the city was almost two decades ago—when Keshav Sthapit was elected as mayor, and Bidur Mainali the deputy mayor.Dipesh Khatiwada The last time Kathmandu elected a mayor to head the city was almost two decades ago—when Keshav Sthapit was elected as mayor, and Bidur Mainali the deputy mayor. It has now been fifteen years since Kathmandu Metropolitan City (KMC) last saw a people’s representative. In these 15 years much has changed in Kathmandu—the needs, the concerns, the cityscape; and after a two-decade hiatus, people are ready to elect a brand new chief executive officer. It was in 1932 that Kathmandu—then a municipality—saw its first ever ‘Mayor Man’, an actual designation at the time, in Singha Shamsher. He was not elected, but appointed after the “Kathmandu Municipality Sabal” act was issued by the government of Chandra Shamsher. The local level polls election was only held 15 years later, in 1947, when Gehendra Shamsher was elected the mayor representing the Rana regime, while Shankardev Panta was elected the deputy mayor as the people’s representative. For this election, which took place in June 11, 1947 only men of age 25 years or older were eligible to vote. Half-a-decade later, on September 2, 1953, Nepal saw its first ever direct election where both men and women aged 21 and above could choose their representative. A total of 56,000 voters from 18 wards participated in the election. That year, Janak Man Shrestha, Asta Mangal Shrestha and Prayag Raj Singh Suwal were elected as Chairpersons of the Kathmandu Municipality, and Sahanadevi Nepal became the first ever woman representative with a total of 2,455 votes in Ward 8. In 1962, after the parliament was dissolved and the Panchayat system was put in place, during the Nagar Panchayat Chunab, Ganesh Man Shrestha was elected the mayor and headed the municipality as the Pradhan Pancha. In the decade that followed, Rajendra Man Suwal took over Shrestha, who was then succeeded by Basudev Prasad Dhungana. Dhungana was appointed mayor at a time when Gaun Farka Abhiyan was at its peak. As soon as the Abhiyan was scrapped Prem Bahadur Shakya succeeded Dhungana, as the Committee Chairman of the Kathmandu Municipality, in 1981. In the year that followed, on June 16, 1982, Gaun Panchayat and Nagar Panchayat Nirbachan 2039, election was held across the country. A total of 4022 villages and 29 municipalities were up for elections. Kamal Chitrakar was elected the mayor of Kathmandu Municipality in these elections. The next election, held on April 19, 1987, saw the participation of every district in the Hill and Tarai regions, but none in the Himalayan belt. In the election, dubbed the District Panchayat Election, Haribol Bhattarai was elected the mayor of Kathmandu Municipality. What’s interesting is, even though it was the Panchayat period, both the mayor and his deputy Tirtha Ram Dangol belonged to an alliance of Nepali Congress and CPN-UML. Then came the era of the 90s, that reinstated democracy following the People’s Movement. In 1992, PL Singh from the Nepali Congress was appointed the mayor of Kathmandu with more than 60,000 votes. By the time of this election, 3995 VDCs and 36 municipalities had been formed following the implementation of the new constitution in 2047 BS. The eligible age for voters had also come down to 18. The election was held in two phases, three days apart. In the local polls election, the Nepali Congress boasted 50.14 percent of votes while UML received 26.07 percent of the votes. On December 15, 1995, Kathmandu Municipality was declared a Metropolitan City—accounting for its increasingly dense urban core. Which brings us to the first and last time Kathmandu as a metropolis ever elected someone to head the city: In 1997 Keshav Sthapit was elected as the chief executive officer of the city with a total of 84,000 votes during the local polls. His deputy Bidur Mainali was from the same party as his—UML. In 1997 too, the election was held in two phases: first on May 17 where 12.5 million voters participated from 58 municipalities and 3913 VDCs and second on May 22. In the election 52.18 percent votes were acquired by CPN UML, and 29.83 percent by Nepali Congress. The next election took place a decade later, during the then King Gyanendra Shah’s direct rule. But the 2006 election, which was conducted across 48 municipalities, was boycotted by major parties. These election results were later nullified. Fast forward a decade, the metropolis is now highly-anticipating the elections to elect a leader that will exploit the true potential that this city has. There are 11 local units in Kathmandu: one metropolis and 10 municipalities. It is estimated that the mayor will need at least 100,000 votes to win the election. So what power does the mayor hold? As the head of the city, the mayor officially speaks for both the government and the community as a whole. According Nabaraj Dhakal, the director of KMC, the mayor withholds 95 percent of the power held by the Kathmandu Metropolitan City, while the deputy plays a bit part role in the decision making. “The Mayor of the KMC has executive, legislative and judiciary powers. In the absence of people’s representatives, the CEO of KMC has been acting as the Mayor for the past two decades,” says Dhakal. Gyanendra Sharma, the spokesperson of KMC says that the CEOs—almost 15 who have come and gone in The last 15 years—only have an administrative role and hence have been merely filling the vacuum. Speaking of the inefficiency that has caused, he adds, “They were using their power unilaterally. They made no effort to reaching out to the people. It has only been about enjoying the perks of the position.”


--- [Kathmandu city] ---
Opinion Kathmandu city Concepts like decentralisation, local sovereignty and democracy have failed to materialiseGaurav Thapa Kathmandu was declared the first and only metropolis in the country just 20 years ago but the present Kathmandu Metropolitan Office (KMC) had its humble beginning in 1919. In December that year, a Cleaning Office was established in the Capital to sweep the streets used by the then royals. The office was the first government institution at the local level in the country and despite its main purpose to serve the royals, it nevertheless benefited locals who used the street. It is that Office that has gone through several transformations and revisions to become the only metropolitan authority in the country. Records show that the Cleaning Office was divided into two sections—lower and upper—for division of work. And in 1932 laws were issued by the then Rana government for organisational reform of the Office and for widening its working areas. But a revolution was brewing within the country against the autocratic Rana regime. The State executed four leaders in 1941 in Kathmandu to quell the revolution but it backfired and further angered the public. To placate the citizens, Prime Minister Padma Shumsher gathered them in February 1947 and declared the establishment of a municipality in Kathmandu. Marketed as a democratic institution, Padma Shumsher even conducted elections for chairman of the 18 wards that were there in Kathmandu back then and for vice chairman of the municipality. However, the chairman of the entire municipality was nominated by the State, which led other elected representatives to resign in protest. After the establishment of democracy in 1951, a Municipality Act was drafted, according to which the first election for Kathmandu municipality was held on August 25, 1952. Janakman Shrestha became the first elected mayor of Kathmandu. Later Prayagraj Singh Suwal was elected the mayor in 1957. The trend to elect the mayors of local bodies continued during the Panchayat era between 1960 and 1990. During this period, Chandrananda Newa, Basudev Dhungana, Premraj Shakya, Kamal Chitrakar, Haribol Bhattarai and Sharada Prasad Bhattarai became municipal chiefs of Kathamandu respectively. After the restoration of democracy in 1990, PL Singh was elected the mayor of Kathmandu in 1992. It was Singh who declared Kathmandu a metropolitan city in 1995. In the 1997 elections, Keshav Sthapit was elected the mayor of Kathmandu. After his term expired in 2002, he was again nominated for the post by the government but he resigned in 2004. Rajaram Shrestha was then elected as KMC mayor in the 2006 local level elections, but the elections held under former king Gyanendra Shah was boycotted by major political parties like the Nepali Congress and CPN-UML, and the elections are not considered legitimate now. Currently Rudra Singh Tamang is heading KMC as the chief and executive officer appointed by the government. This means Kathmandu as well as other local bodies have been without elected representatives since 2002. The concepts of decentralisation, local sovereignty and democracy championed by various political parties during different times in the country’s history have failed to materialise in a true sense. In the absence of elected representatives, government employees have been heading local bodies. Kathmandu has suffered from mismanaged settlement, increasing pollution and scarcity of daily essentials as citizens have not been able to choose a local government for themselves. Thapa is a reporter at the Post


--- [2022 Kathmandu municipal election] ---
A municipal election for Kathmandu took place on 13 May 2022, with all 162 positions up for election across 32 wards. The electorate elected a mayor, a deputy mayor, 32 ward chairs and 128 ward members. An indirect election will also be held to elect five female members and an additional three female members from the Dalit and minority community to the municipal executive.


--- [KMC to build full-size statue of its former mayor Singh] ---
KATHMANDU: Kathmandu Metropolitan City (KMC) Office has announced plans to install a full-size statue of former mayor late PL Singh on the City Hall premises. The 16th Legislative Assembly took the decision on Sunday, according to Basanta Acharya, the information officer for KMC. Kathmandu was declared a metropolitan city during the mayorship of the late Singh in 1995. Singh passed away at his Chaksibari residence in Kathmandu on December 16. Singh was the first to get elected as mayor of Kathmandu Municipality after the political change of 1990. Published On: 29 Dec 2024 Comments
