=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Süleymaniye Mosque - Wikipedia]
The Süleymaniye was damaged in the great fire of 1660 and was restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. [19] Part of the dome collapsed during the earthquake of 1766. Repairs damaged what was left of Sinan's original decoration (recent cleaning has shown that he experimented with blue, before making red the dominant colour of the dome). [20]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%BCleymaniye_Mosque

[The Süleymaniye Mosque Complex and the Legacy of Süleyman I]
Feb 4, 2026 · The Süleymaniye Mosque was damaged by the Great Fire of 1660 and restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed in a 1766 earthquake. The mosque also suffered damage during World War I. The courtyard was being used as a weapons depot and some ammunition ignited, setting the mosque on fire. Dome Süleymaniye Mosque Ablution fountain (şadırvan)
URL: https://www.nomadicniko.com/turkey/istanbul/suleymaniye-mosque/

[Limen Project - The Süleymaniye Mosque]
The Süleymaniye was ravaged by a fire in 1660 and was restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed again during the earthquake of 1766. Subsequent repairs damaged what was left of the original decoration of Sinan (recent cleaning has shown that Sinan experimented first with blue, before turning red the dominant color of the dome).
URL: https://www.limenproject.net/istanbul/religious-structures/the-suleymaniye-mosque/

[Süleymaniye Mosque | Description, History, & Facts]
In 1660 the mosque was damaged by fire, and it was later restored by Sultan Mehmed IV in a Baroque style, resulting in considerable harm to the original ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/topic/Suleymaniye-Mosque

[Suleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii)]
The Süleymaniye was ravaged by a fire in 1660 and was restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed again during the earthquake of 1766. Subsequent repairs damaged what was left of the original decoration of Sinan (recent cleaning has shown that Sinan experimented first with blue, before turning red the dominant color of the dome).
URL: https://turkey.toursoption.com/Mosque/Suleymaniye-Mosque-Suleymaniye-Camii-Pl19/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Süleymaniye Mosque - Wikipedia] ---
The Süleymaniye Mosque (Turkish: Süleymaniye Camii, pronounced [sylejˈmaːnije]) is an Ottoman imperial mosque located on the Third Hill of Istanbul, Turkey. The mosque was commissioned by Suleiman the Magnificent (r. 1520–1566) and designed by the imperial architect Mimar Sinan. An inscription specifies the foundation date as 1550 and the inauguration date as 1557, although work on the complex probably continued for a few years after this. 
The Süleymaniye Mosque is one of the best-known sights of Istanbul and from its location on the Third Hill it commands an extensive view of the city around the Golden Horn. It is considered a masterpiece of Ottoman architecture and one of Mimar Sinan's greatest works. It is the largest Ottoman-era mosque in the city.  
Like other Ottoman imperial foundations, the mosque is part of a larger külliye (religious and charitable complex) which included madrasas, a public kitchen, and a hospital, among others. Behind the qibla wall of the mosque is an enclosed cemetery containing the separate octagonal mausoleums of Suleiman the Magnificent and his wife Hurrem Sultan (Roxelana).
The Süleymaniye Mosque and its Associated Conservation Area is one of the four components of the UNESCO World Heritage Site "Historic Areas of Istanbul", protected under cultural criteria (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv). Located within the Historic Peninsula, the site falls under multiple conservation designations: it was nationally registered in 1981 as an urban and historic conservation area and again in 1995 as an Archaeological, Urban Archaeological, Historical and Urban Site. The area contains 920 registered properties, including monumental and civil architecture.


--- [The Süleymaniye Mosque Complex and the Legacy of Süleyman I] ---
Last updated on . The Süleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii) is one of the most important mosques in Istanbul. It’s located in the Süleymaniye neighborhood and is included in the UNESCO World Heritage listing of the Historic Areas of Istanbul. History of the Süleymaniye Mosque The Süleymaniye Mosque was built by Ottoman architect Mimar Sinan (c. 1490-1588) between June 13, 1550, and October 15, 1557. It was commissioned by Süleyman the Magnificent and sits on the highest hill in the old city. A total of 3,523 workers, 1,713 of whom were Muslims, were employed during its construction. Stones and materials were brought from all over the Ottoman Empire. The Süleymaniye Mosque was damaged by the Great Fire of 1660 and restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed in a 1766 earthquake. The mosque also suffered damage during World War I. The courtyard was being used as a weapons depot and some ammunition ignited, setting the mosque on fire. Features of the Süleymaniye Mosque The Süleymaniye Mosque is an architectural gem. There are several features of the mosque that serve architectural or aesthetic purposes. Some features have symbolic meanings. Minarets of the Süleymaniye Mosque The Süleymaniye Mosque has four minarets, representing Süleyman the Magnificent as the fourth Ottoman sultan after the Conquest of Constantinople. The 2 minarets attached to the mosque have 3 balconies each and stand 76 meters (249 feet) high. The 2 minarets attached to the entrance façade of the courtyard have 2 balconies each and stand 56 meters (184 feet) high. The total number of balconies is 10, representing Sülyeman the Magnificent as the 10th Ottoman sultan. Monumental Entrance to the Süleymaniye Mosque The courtyard has a large monumental entrance façade facing to the northwest. The inscription above the niche contains the Sunni version of the shahada. Inner Courtyard of the Süleymaniye Mosque The inner courtyard measures roughly 47 x 57 meters (154 x 187 feet). It’s surrounded by porticoes on all four sides, forming 28 arches. In the center of the courtyard is a rectangular fountain that dispensed drinking water. Prayer Hall of the Süleymaniye Mosque The prayer hall of the mosque is almost square in shape, at 58.5 x 57.5 meters (192 x 189 feet). Visitors are asked to stay behind a wooden barrier in order to not disturb anyone praying. The Süleymaniye Mosque was designed to create an air flow that allows soot coming out of oil lamps to be collected at a single point. The soot was collected in a room above the main entrance and was used in ink production. On the north and south sides of the prayer hall are tympana filled with windows. They’re supported by huge marble columns. Behind each tympanum is an aisle with a two-story gallery. Decorations in the Süleymaniye Mosque The prayer hall is decorated with Iznik tiles around the mihrab and stained glass windows on the qibla wall. Due to the fires and earthquake, most of the original decorations have not survived. There are also calligraphic medallions with the names of Allah, Mohammed, and the Caliphs, as well as floral patterns and other calligraphy throughout. The calligrapher was Hasan Çelebi (d. 1594). Dome of the Süleymaniye Mosque The dome is 53 meters (174 feet) high with a diameter of 26.5 meters (86.9 feet). It was based on the dome of Hagia Sophia and is supported by semi domes on four huge columns. There are 32 windows in the drum of the dome, and the design dates back to a 19th-century restoration by the Fossati brothers. Süleymaniye Mosque Complex The huge Süleymaniye Mosque Complex (Süleymaniye Külliyesi) was designed to benefit the citizens of Constantinople. It was designed by Mimar Sinan. The mosque, as previously mentioned, was completed in 1557, and the rest of the structures by 1559. When finished, the complex contained 15 sections, including a hospital, soup kitchen, primary school, guesthouse, hamam, caravanserai, four madrasas, a medical school, and the cemetery containing the tombs of Süleyman the Magnificent and his family. Most of the buildings still exist to this day. Guesthouse Starting on the west side of the complex and working our way counterclockwise, first is the guesthouse (tabhane). It was built on a rectangular plan with rooms under a portico surrounding a courtyard. The rooms are covered with domes. The lower floors of the guesthouse and soup kitchen (see below), located on sloping land to the north, were used as a caravanserai (kervansaray). Soup Kitchen Next door to the guesthouse is the soup kitchen (imaret). It consists of different sized spaces planned around a square courtyard with a portico. Two ovens were located in the northern corner of the building. The soup kitchen distributed food to the poor, regardless of religion or ethnicity. The soup kitchen served as a restaurant for many years and was under restoration during my last visit. Hospital On the northwest corner of the Süleymaniye Mosque Complex is the hospital (dârüşşifa). It’s a rectangular structure with two courtyards side by side. Domed rooms surround the rear courtyard on three sides while the front courtyard has rooms on two sides. Near the end of the Ottoman period, the hospital was used as military printing house (matbaa-i askerî). The hospital was under restoration during my last visit. Tiryaki Bazaar Around the next corner is a wide avenue with another row of buildings. These buildings, which are discussed below, all had a row of vaulted shops on the lower level that made up the Tiryaki Bazaar (Tiryaki Çarşısı). There are still shops there today as well as restaurants, many specializing in kurufasulye. Medical School The first building on the corner is the medical school (tıp medresesi). Only 1 row of 12 cells survives today, and it may have originally been a square building with a courtyard. With the Süleymaniye Mosque Complex, theoretical medicine became a separate institution. Before that, medical education was carried out in hospitals themselves. The medical school functioned until the 19th century when modern medical schools began to open. Sani and Evvel Madrasas Past the medical school are the Sani Madrasa (Sani Medresesi) and Evvel Madrasa (Evvel Medresesi). They’re identical in plan with a U shape around a square courtyard. Each madrasa has 22 cells separated from the courtyard by a portico. The classroom is on the south side. Today, the madrasas house the Süleymaniye Library (Süleymaniye Kütüphanesi). It’s the largest manuscript library in Turkey and preserves one of the world’s most extensive collections of Islamic manuscripts. The library was founded in 1918. They also host a few kuru fasulye restaurants. Primary School On the southwest corner of the Süleymaniye Mosque Complex is the primary school (sıbyan mektebi). It was built with cut stone and has two sections. The square domed entrance is at the front, and a rectangular room covered with a vault and a dome is at the back. Süleymaniye Square Fountain Outside the primary school is the Süleymaniye Square Fountain (Süleymaniye Meydan Çeşmesi). This Baroque-style fountain was constructed between 1792 and 1793 for the use of local workers. It has a square plan with a pointed dome. Darülkurra Rounding the next corner, at the edge of the cemetery is the Darülkurra. It’s a square building with a dome. The Darülkurra was a place for memorization of the Quran as well as Arabic and Quran recitation lessons. Someone who has completely memorized the Quran is called a hafiz. Dar-ül Hadis Opposite the Darülkurra, at the southeast end of the complex, is the Dar-ül Hadis. It consists of a row of student cells with a fireplace and niche. The Dar-ül Hadis is where students would study the Hadith. The row of vaulted shops underneath the cells was known as the Casters Bazaar (Dökmeciler Çarşısı). Süleymaniye Hamam Behind the Dar-ül Hadis, the Süleymaniye Hamam (Süleymaniye Hamamı) was built for students and personnel of the Süleymaniye Mosque Complex. Originally called the Casters Hamam (Dökmeciler Hamamı), it was built on a trapezoidal plan. A large dome tops the square dressing room, and there are four private rooms in the hot section. The hamam closed in 1924 and was converted into a workshop in the 1930s. It was then renovated and reopened as a public bath in 2004. The hamam is located on the east corner of the complex. The Süleymaniye Hamam is one of the most beautiful baths in the city. It’s open daily for mixed and family bathing, catering mostly to tourists. Services cost 75€ per person (as of March 2025), including washing, peeling and scrubbing, slippers, a towel for men, and bra and shorts for women. The full hamam experience takes 60 to 90 minutes. Reservations are required and only cash is accepted. Salis and Rabi Madrasas On the eastern side of the Süleymaniye Mosque Complex are two more madrasas. The Sali Madrasa (Salis Medresesi) and Rabi Madrasa (Rabi Medresesi) were built with cut stone on land sloping down towards the Golden Horn. They have identical plans and there’s an empty courtyard between the two madrasas. Each madrasa has a square classroom topped with a dome located on the west side. Surrounding the other 3 sides are 20 domed cells with fireplaces and niches, all behind a domed portico. Both madrasas were under restoration during my last visit. Cemetery at the Süleymaniye Mosque A small enclosure behind the Süleymaniye Mosque contains a cemetery with two large tombs. The entrance is through a gate on the north side of the mosque. Tomb of Süleyman the Magnificent The first structure is the tomb of Süleyman the Magnificent (Kanuni Sultan Süleyman Türbesi), which was built in 1566. It contains a peristyle with a roof supported by 24 columns. The entrance is decorated with Iznik tiles. The structure has a dome supported by eight columns. It’s decorated with diamonds placed between metallic plates to give the image of the sky adorned with stars. 14 windows surround the ground level while an additional 24 stained glass windows are set in the tympana. The interior is decorated with Iznik tiles, Quranic script, and fine woodwork. Seven people, including three Ottoman sultans, are buried in the tomb. The sultans are Süleyman the Magnificent, Süleyman II, and Ahmed II. The others buried in the tomb are Rabia Sultan (1671-1712), the chief consort of Ahmed II; Mihrimah Sultan (1522-1578), the daughter of Süleyman the Magnificent and wife of Grand Vizier Rüstem Pasha (c. 1505-1561); Aşub Sultan (1627-1690), the mother of Süleyman II; and Asiye Sultan (1694-1695), the daughter of Ahmed II. Biography of Süleyman I The most important burial in the tomb is Süleyman I, commonly known as Süleyman the Magnificent (b. 1494, Trabzon – d. 1566, Szigetvár, Hungary). He was the 10th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire (r. 1520-1566). The longest-ruling Sultan, he was very cultured, spoke five languages, and presided over the greatest period of Ottoman military, economic, and political power. Süleyman the Magnificent issued a legal code that was to last for over 300 years and gave specific rights to Christian and Jewish subjects. He valued education and the arts, and broke with Ottoman tradition to legally marry Hürrem Sultan, a woman from his Harem. Under his rule, the Ottoman Empire conquered Baghdad, Belgrade, Rhodes, and most of Hungary, and annexed much of North Africa as far west as Algeria. Biography of Süleyman II To the left of Süleyman I is Süleyman II (b. 1642, Constantinople – d. 1691, Edirne), the 20th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire (r. 1687-1691). In 1651, he was confined to the Twin Kiosk, or kafes, a type of luxurious cage at Topkapi Palace, and remained there for 36 years until his ascension to the throne. He replaced his half-brother Mehmed IV who was overthrown in a coup. The empire was in terrible condition when he took over. Under his rule, the Ottoman Empire recaptured Belgrade in 1690 and enacted significant fiscal and military reforms. He slipped into a coma and was taken to Edirne on June 8, 1691, where he died two weeks later. Biography of Ahmed II The third sultan buried in the tomb of Süleyman the Magnificent is Ahmed II (b. 1643, Constantinople – d. 1695, Edirne), the 21st Sultan of the Ottoman Empire (r. 1691-1695). He spent 43 years in the kafes before his ascension to the throne in 1691, replacing his half-brother Süleyman II. Early in his reign, Ahmed II relied heavily on his Grand Vizier, Köprülü Fazıl Mustafa Pasha (1637-1691). After the Grand Vizier was killed in the Battle of Slankamen against the Holy Roman Empire, the Ottoman Empire suffered heavy military defeats and lost important territory. Two major fires also broke out in Constantinople in 1693, burning over 5,000 buildings. Tomb of Hürrem Sultan The second structure in the enclosure is the tomb of Hürrem Sultan (Hürrem Sultan Türbesi), the wife of Süleyman the Magnificent. It was built in 1558 and was commissioned by Süleyman after her death. It has an octagonal shape on the exterior and 16 sides on the interior. The interior is beautifully decorated with Iznik tiles and Quranic script. There are seven rectangular windows separated by eight hooded niches resembling mihrabs. The ceiling is whitewashed but in the past was most likely painted in bright colors and designs. Hürrem Sultan (1502-1558), also known as Roxelana, was born in Ruthenia, which was under Polish control at the time of her birth and is now part of Ukraine. Her birth name was probably Anastasia or Alexandra Lisovska and her father was a priest. She was captured by Crimean Tatars and sold into slavery in 1510, eventually ending up in the Imperial Harem at Topkapi Palace. Hürrem Sultan rose to become one of the most powerful women in Ottoman history. Also buried in the tomb is Prince Mehmed (d. 1572), the son of Sultan Selim II; and Hanım Sultan (d. 1582), the daughter of Hatice Sultan and niece of Süleyman the Magnificent. Ottoman Headstones While visiting, it’s worth noting the Ottoman headstones in the cemetery. There’s a good sample of different styles scattered throughout. Views from the Süleymaniye Mosque Finally, the north side of the outer courtyard of the Süleymaniye Mosque is popular with both locals and visitors for the phenomenal views of Istanbul. I’ve also see families picnicking there on weekends and holidays.


--- [Limen Project - The Süleymaniye Mosque] ---
Tel.: Fax.: Email: Site: The Süleymaniye Mosque is an Ottoman imperial mosque located on the Third Hill of Istanbul, Turkey. It is the largest mosque in the city, and one of the best-known sights of Istanbul. The Süleymaniye Mosque, built on the order of Sultan Süleyman (Süleyman the Magnificent), “was fortunate to be able to draw on the talents of the architectural genius of Mimar Sinan”. The construction work began in 1550 and the mosque was finished in 1558. This “vast religious complex called the Süleymaniye…blended Islamic and Byzantine architectural elements. It combines tall, slender minarets with large domed buildings supported by half domes in the style of the Byzantine church Hagia Sophia (which the Ottomans converted into the mosque of Aya Sofya)” The design of the Süleymaniye also plays on Suleyman’s self-conscious representation of himself as a ‘second Solomon.’ It references the Dome of the Rock, which was built on the site of the Temple of Solomon, as well as Justinian’s boast upon the completion of the Hagia Sophia. The Süleymaniye, similar in magnificence to the preceding structures, asserts Suleyman’s historical importance. The structure is nevertheless smaller in size than its older archetype, the Hagia Sophia. The Süleymaniye was ravaged by a fire in 1660 and was restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed again during the earthquake of 1766. Subsequent repairs damaged what was left of the original decoration of Sinan (recent cleaning has shown that Sinan experimented first with blue, before turning red the dominant color of the dome). During World War I the courtyard was used as a weapons depot, and when some of the ammunition ignited, the mosque suffered another fire. Not until 1956 was it fully restored again.


--- [Süleymaniye Mosque | Description, History, & Facts] ---
Süleymaniye Mosque Süleymaniye Mosque, grand hilltop structure built in the 16th century on the orders of, and named after, Sultan Süleyman the Magnificent in Istanbul, Turkey. It was designed by Sinan, one of the great architects of his time and architect-in-chief to Süleyman for almost 28 years. During its construction, more than 3,500 workers laboured on the building. Süleyman sought to use his new mosque to rival the grandeur of the Byzantine-built church Hagia Sophia. The Süleymaniye Mosque is smaller than the Hagia Sophia, but it is arguably a more graceful structure. It measures 194 feet (59 m) long and 190 feet (58 m) wide; the main dome is 174 feet (53 m) high and 89 feet (27 m) in diameter. It has four minarets, and domes descend in tiers from the central dome. In addition to the mosque itself, the complex housed many other structures, including a bathhouse, hospital, public kitchen to feed the poor, and several madrasahs (Islamic schools). In the garden behind the mosque, there are two mausoleums housing the tombs of some important figures, including those of Süleyman and his wife, Roxelana. It also houses the tombs of the sultans Süleyman II and Ahmed II. In 1660 the mosque was damaged by fire, and it was later restored by Sultan Mehmed IV in a Baroque style, resulting in considerable harm to the original structure. Further destruction occurred during the earthquake of 1766. It was returned to its original style in the 19th century but was damaged again during World War I, when its courtyard was used as a weapons depot and ammunition ignited another major fire. The mosque was not fully restored again until 1956. Further restoration was undertaken between 2007 and 2010, and work on the outer buildings is ongoing. The Süleymaniye Mosque remains a superb example of the grace and sophistication of architecture at the peak of the Ottoman Empire. The mosque ranks as one of the world’s great buildings.


--- [Suleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii)] ---
Suleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii) Suleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii) - $PTypeName$Mosque - $PCityName$Istanbul - $PAdres$Suleymaniye, Fatih, Istanbul Suleymaniye Mosque (Süleymaniye Camii) The Süleymaniye Mosque (Turkish: Süleymaniye Camii, Turkish pronunciation: [sylejˈmaːnije]) is an Ottoman imperial mosque located on the Third Hill of Istanbul, Turkey. It is the largest mosque in the city, and one of the best-known sights of Istanbul. The Süleymaniye Mosque, built on the order of Sultan Süleyman (Süleyman the Magnificent), "was fortunate to be able to draw on the talents of the architectural genius of Mimar Sinan" (481 Traditions and Encounters: Brief Global History). The construction work began in 1550 and the mosque was finished in 1558. This "vast religious complex called the Süleymaniye...blended Islamic and Byzantine architectural elements. It combines tall, slender minarets with large domed buildings supported by half domes in the style of the Byzantine church Hagia Sophia (which the Ottomans converted into the mosque of Aya Sofya)" (481 Traditions and Encounters: Brief Global History). The design of the Süleymaniye also plays on Suleyman's self-conscious representation of himself as a 'second Solomon.' It references the Dome of the Rock, which was built on the site of theTemple of Solomon, as well as Justinian's boast upon the completion of the Hagia Sophia: "Solomon, I have surpassed thee!" The Süleymaniye, similar in magnificence to the preceding structures, asserts Suleyman's historical importance. The structure is nevertheless smaller in size than its older archetype, the Hagia Sophia. Exterior aerial shot of Süleymaniye Mosque, 1903. Brooklyn Museum Archives, Goodyear Archival Collection The Süleymaniye was ravaged by a fire in 1660 and was restored by Sultan Mehmed IV. Part of the dome collapsed again during the earthquake of 1766. Subsequent repairs damaged what was left of the original decoration of Sinan (recent cleaning has shown that Sinan experimented first with blue, before turning red the dominant color of the dome). During World War I the courtyard was used as a weapons depot, and when some of the ammunition ignited, the mosque suffered another fire. Not until 1956 was it fully restored again. The construction of the Halic metro bridge in 2013 has irreparably altered the view of the mosque from north.
