=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nick LaLota - Wikipedia]
Nick LaLota ... Nicholas Joseph LaLota (/ ləˈloʊtə / lə-LOH-tə; born June 23, 1978) is an American politician and veteran serving since 2023 as the U.S. representative for New York's 1st congressional district. He is a member of the Republican Party.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_LaLota

[About - Congressman Nick LaLota]
Nick also served as Chief of Staff to a New York State Senator, where he learned how to ensure citizens’ voices were heard as he directed legislation, government relations, strategy and community outreach. A husband and father, Nick and his wife Kaylie, his high school sweetheart, are raising three daughters.
URL: https://lalota.house.gov/about

[Nick LaLota Archives – Politics NY]
Nick LaLota is a lifelong Long Islander and a graduate of St. Anthony's High School in Melville and the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. After serving in the U.S. Navy for 11 years and deploying overseas three times, Nick married his high school sweetheart, Kaylie, and they are raising their three girls on Long Island. Nick holds an MBA and a J.D. from Hofstra University. In Congress, Nick is ...
URL: https://politicsny.com/districts/us-house-of-representatives/house-district-1/nick-lalota/

[Nick LaLota - Agora]
Nick LaLota Party: Republican Current Title: No current leadership role Chamber: House of Representatives State: New York District: 1 Biography LALOTA, Nicholas, a ...
URL: https://www.agoraforthepeople.net/politicians/L000598

[Nicholas (Nick) LaLota – Center for Political Awareness]
Jan 3, 2023 · LALOTA, Nicholas (Nick), a Representative from New York; born in Bay Shore, Suffolk County, N.Y., June 23, 1978; graduated from St. Anthony’s High School, South ...
URL: https://centerforpoliticalawareness.com/us-representative/nick-lalota/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nick LaLota - Wikipedia] ---
Nicholas Joseph LaLota ( lə-LOH-tə; born June 23, 1978) is an American politician and veteran serving since 2023 as the U.S. representative for New York's 1st congressional district. He is a member of the Republican Party.


--- [About - Congressman Nick LaLota] ---
About U.S. Representative Nick LaLota (NY-01) was first sworn into office in January 2023. Nick learned the values of hard work and service to the community from his own family. It is that commitment to service which drives him as a Member of Congress. Nick’s father served as a Nassau County Police Officer, his grandfathers served in the NYPD, and his stepfather served in the Navy. Nick’s mother, while working at Grumman assigned to the F-14 program, brought home U.S. Navy Tomcat models. Those models, and his family’s longtime service to the community, had an impact on both Nick and his brother. Nick’s brother Dan is a retired Marine Sniper who earned a Bronze Star with Valor for his service in Fallujah, Iraq. Nick also went on to serve. While a senior at St. Anthony’s High School, Nick applied to one of the few coveted spots at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Selected for academic record and leadership, Nick attended and earned his degree from Annapolis. Nick entered the Navy and attained the rank of Lieutenant. Serving our nation in uniform, Nick was sent overseas on three separate occasions, deploying to twenty countries. As a Surface Warfare Officer, Nick served as Assistant Operations Officer on the USS Curts and as a Tactical Action Officer on USS Carl Vinson, a nuclear powered Aircraft Carrier. For his service he was awarded a Joint Service Commendation Medal in support of the Global War on Terrorism. After his Naval career protecting our nation, and with it Long Island, Nick returned home. He then went to work continuing his public service. In 2013, Nick was appointed to the Amityville Board of Trustees and successfully ran for election in 2014 and re-election in 2015. As a Trustee, Nick maintained a focus on reducing the tax burden on Amityville’s families and businesses, while improving Village services and the viability of the Village’s downtown and beach. As the Village’s Budget Officer, he helped craft four consecutive budgets that complied with the 2% property tax cap, without eliminating any Village services. In 2015 and 2016, following budgets providing significant surpluses, the Village received upgrades from Moody’s and S&P credit rating agencies. As the Chairman of the Committee to the Police Department, Nick increased the number of Officers on patrol. As Chairman of the Committee to the Fire Department, Nick worked with the Chiefs’ Office and Fire Council to start a Village Fire Marshal program, refurbish multiple ambulances, and increase EMT funding by 40% while appropriating additional funding for life saving equipment that kept our volunteer firefighters and community safe. Since 2008, Nick has served in different leadership roles in local government on Long Island, most recently serving as Chief of Staff to the Suffolk County Legislature. There, Nick worked with the Presiding Officer, County Legislators, staff and the public to deliver superior municipal services at affordable tax rates while protecting the environment– especially surface waters and drinking waters. Nick oversaw Suffolk County’s $3.7 billion budget which services the county’s 1.5 million residents. Prior to being the County Legislature’s Chief of Staff, Nick served as Commissioner of the Suffolk County Board of Elections where he worked diligently to make it easier to vote and harder to cheat in our democratic process. When appointed, Nick became the youngest person to hold the post in three decades. Nick also served as Chief of Staff to a New York State Senator, where he learned how to ensure citizens’ voices were heard as he directed legislation, government relations, strategy and community outreach. A husband and father, Nick and his wife Kaylie, his high school sweetheart, are raising three daughters. Nick is a cum laude graduate from Hofstra University’s Zarb School of Business with a Masters Degree in Business Administration (MBA). In addition, Nick holds a Juris Doctor from Hofstra University’s Maurice A. Deane School of Law. Nick continues his commitment to serving Long Island in the halls of Congress by fighting to lower taxes for working class Long Islanders, secure energy independence and defend all of our constitutional freedoms.


--- [Nick LaLota Archives – Politics NY] ---
(Incumbent) Candidate SiteNick LaLota is a lifelong Long Islander and a graduate of St. Anthony’s High School in Melville and the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. After serving in the U.S. Navy for 11 years and deploying overseas three times, Nick married his high school sweetheart, Kaylie, and they are raising their three girls on Long Island. Nick holds an MBA and a J.D. from Hofstra University. In Congress, Nick is fighting every day to lower the cost of living, support working families, secure the border, and ensure our military is the greatest fighting force for good in the world.


--- [Nick LaLota - Agora] ---
Biography LALOTA, Nicholas, a Representative from New York; born in Bay Shore, Suffolk County, N.Y., June 23, 1978; graduated from St. Anthony's High School, South Huntington, N.Y.; B.S., United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., 2000; M.B.A., Hofstra University, Hempstead, N.Y., 2012; J.D., Hofstra University, Hempstead, N.Y., 2020; United States Navy, 2000-2007; stockbroker; staff, United States Representative Steve Israel, 2009-2010; staff, New York state senate; staff, New York state senator Phil Boyle, member of the village of Amityville, N.Y., board of trustees; commissioner, Suffolk County, N.Y., board of elections; staff, Suffolk County, N.Y. legislature; elected as a Republican to the One Hundred Eighteenth and to the succeeding Congress (January 3, 2023-present). GRID Power Act Vote Date: Thu, 18 Sep 2025 National Coal Council Reestablishment Act Vote Date: Thu, 18 Sep 2025 Promoting Cross-border Energy Infrastructure Act Vote Date: Thu, 18 Sep 2025 District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act of 2025 Vote Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2025 District of Columbia Policing Protection Act of 2025 Vote Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2025 Honoring Our Heroes Act of 2025 Vote Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2025 D. C. Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act of 2025 Vote Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2025 TRAVEL Act of 2025 Vote Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2025 Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025 Vote Date: Thu, 11 Sep 2025 Personnel Oversight and Shift Tracking Act of 2025 Vote Date: Mon, 08 Sep 2025 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026 Vote Date: Thu, 04 Sep 2025 Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025 Vote Date: Tue, 02 Sep 2025 Made-in-America Defense Act Vote Date: Tue, 02 Sep 2025 Enhancing Multi-Class Share Disclosures Act Vote Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2025 Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 Vote Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2025


--- [Nicholas (Nick) LaLota – Center for Political Awareness] ---
LALOTA, Nicholas (Nick), a Representative from New York; born in Bay Shore, Suffolk County, N.Y., June 23, 1978; graduated from St. Anthony’s High School, South Huntington, N.Y.; B.S., United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., 2000; M.B.A., Hofstra University, Hempstead, N.Y., 2012; J.D., Hofstra University, Hempstead, N.Y., 2020; United States Navy, 2000-2007; stockbroker; staff, United States Representative Steve Israel, 2009-2010; staff, New York state senate; staff, New York state senator Phil Boyle, member of the village of Amityville, N.Y., board of trustees; commissioner, Suffolk County, N.Y., board of elections; staff, Suffolk County, N.Y. legislature; elected as a Republican to the One Hundred Eighteenth and to the succeeding Congress (January 3, 2023-present).
