=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harmony Cobel - Severance Wiki]
Feb 3, 2026 · Harmony Cobel [Harmony Cobel] Also Known As Mrs. Selvig, Ms. Cobel, Cobelvig Portrayed By Patricia Arquette Occupation Vindication Status Alive First Appearance Good News About Hell Harmony Cobel Harmony Cobel was the Severed Floor manager at Lumon Industries and is now on the run. She used a false identity, Mrs. Selvig, in her interactions with
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/harmony_cobel

[Severance: Harmony Cobel's Role At Lumon Industries & Mrs. Selvig ...]
Jan 13, 2025 · Patricia Arquette's Severance character, Harmony Cobel, is crucial to the story of the Apple TV+ series, as is her Mrs. Selvig identity.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-harmony-cobel-lumon-industries-role-selvig-identity-explained/

[Season 1 spoiler ... the thing about Selvig and Cobel in episode 1 in ...]
Her face at the end of episode 1 when she watches oMark turns away says it all. Plus the double line about her mother is also a big clue that in and out she's the same and that she has some ulterior motive with him.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SeveranceAppleTVPlus/comments/x3mgfe/season_1_spoiler_the_thing_about_selvig_and_cobel/

[Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Is Selvig Severed?]
Feb 25, 2022 · Later, Mrs. Selving brings Mark some homemade cookies to apologize for the garbage bn debacle, but in reality, has some sinister ulterior motive. Is Mrs. Selvig Severed? The reveal that Mrs. Selvig is actually Mark’s boss, Ms. Cobel, is a major one as it changes the dynamics between the two characters when they are at work and outside.
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/who-is-mrs-selvig-in-severance-is-she-severed/

[Harmony Cobel | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Harmony Cobel is the former manager of the Lumon Branch 501 Severed Floor. Harmony grew up in Salt's Neck, where she worked in the local Lumon ether factory alongside her friend Hampton. She later attended the Myrtle Eagan School For Girls and grew up with the teachings of Kier Eagan. During this time, her mother Charlotte became ill and was put on life support under the supervision of Harmony ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Harmony_Cobel


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harmony Cobel - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Harmony Cobel | | | Also Known As | Mrs. Selvig, Ms. Cobel, Cobelvig | |---|---| | Portrayed By | Patricia Arquette | | Occupation | Vindication | | Status | Alive | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Harmony Cobel was the Severed Floor manager at Lumon Industries and is now on the run. She used a false identity, Mrs. Selvig, in her interactions with Mark Scout's outie as his next door neighbor. Mrs. Selvig ostensibly worked at Swab Girl, selling soaps and bath bombs. She also bakes horrifying chamomile and lavender cookies that Mark eats very politely. She is not severed.[1] A true devotee of the Eagan philosophy (until she was fired by Lumon), Harmony Cobel was raised in Salt's Neck and attended the Myrtle Eagan School for Girls. Her mother is Charlotte Cobel[2] and Harmony was not allowed to leave school even to say goodbye when her mother died. Her academic excellence was more important than allowing her to indulge in woe. Harmony excelled in her studies and graduated high school as valedictorian in the Year of Wiles. She earned many prizes and accolades as a student including Most Observant and Best Use of Mealtime Condiments, as well as the coveted Wintertide Fellowship, which was presented to her by Jame Eagan. Most importantly, she invented the Severance Procedure and attendant chip protocols yet received no credit for this. She was told Kier's knowledge is for all[3] as justification for Lumon stealing her technology. She was described in her yearbook as “a beacon of academic excellence and leadership” and she left “an indelible mark on the Year of Wiles graduating class…she exhibited unwavering commitment to her academic pursuits, consistently achieved top grades and mastering challenging subjects. Beyond the classroom, Harmony actively engaged in extracurricular activities, leading the field hockey team as Captain and acting as President of the Goat Husbandry Club.” She was a positive influence and inspiration to her peers and educators alike, despite indulging in ether frolics as early as the age of 8. Charlotte’s medical bracelet and a coiled hospital breathing tube rested on Harmony’s Kier Shrine in her Baird Creek basement, but now is returned to the ventilator that gave her mother her last breath. Her lifelong devotion to Lumon and Kier Eagan is evident from her basement bedroom decor and possessions, as well as the many prizes and accolades left behind in her childhood home. Harmony drives a white Volkswagen Rabbit and is irresponsible with her trash and recycling bins. The art that hung behind her desk was a tryptych of roiling storm clouds. She has a surviving aunt, Celestine "Sissy" Cobel, with whom she has a contentious relationship. She also has a trauma bonded history with the proprietor of the The Drippy Pot Cafe, Hampton, since childhood, including recreational huffing of ether. When Helly began work on the severed floor, Ms. Cobel has just moved into a new office. It is not known what her previous job was or if she only moved workspaces, but her function appears to be unchanged. After the events at the Helly - A Severed Story gala, her employment with Lumon was brought to an ignominious end. However, she was offered an invitation to spearhead a new brand initiative heading the Severance Advisory Council. She rejected that “promotion” in favor of returning home to Salt's Neck to obtain proof that it was she and not Jame Eagan who invented the Severance Procedure. Harmony has had a tense and adversarial relationship with Natalie Kalen, the PR representative and speaker for The Board at Lumon Industries. Her working relationship with Seth Milchick was generally amiable, but they did not always agree on methodologies. When on the severed floor, she spent an inordinate amount of time monitoring Mark S. and Ms. Casey's interactions. Her manner was always terse and intimidating. You know, my mother was an atheist. She used to say that there was good news and bad news about hell. The good news is, hell is just the product of a morbid human imagination. The bad news is, whatever humans can imagine, they can usually create.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (29:22) You know, my mother was a Catholic. She used to say it takes the saints eight hours to bless a sleeping child.Season 1, Episode 1 Good News About Hell (29:22) If you want a hug, go to hell and find your mother.Season 1, Episode 4, The You You Are (25:17) We serve Kier, you child!Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (54:53) I welcome your contrition.Season 2, Episode 2, Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig (05:56) You don't value me. You fear me.Season 2, Episode 2, Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig (07:23) Harmony Cobel. Well, flip my toboggan.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (06:04) We were once chums. Old colleagues lift each other up.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (11:13) You're higher than a bearded vulture.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (13:56)


--- [Severance: Harmony Cobel's Role At Lumon Industries & Mrs. Selvig ...] ---
No content


--- [Season 1 spoiler ... the thing about Selvig and Cobel in episode 1 in ...] ---
Season 1 spoiler ... the thing about Selvig and Cobel in episode 1 in particular ... ...were we as viewers supposed to infer that Selvig is just a severed version of Cobel, and that she (Selvig) is as clueless as oMark is about the fact that they work together? If that is not what we were supposed to infer, then what are we supposed to understand of the person we see acting one way in the office and another way (with another name...) at home? I guess I am wondering specifically in the first two episodes, I think ... Heck, am I dumb for thinking Selvig is the outtie version fo Cobel, and that idea was not even what they were going for?


--- [Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Is Selvig Severed?] ---
‘Severance‘ is filled with mysteries surrounding the corporate organization known as Lumon Industries. As Mark Scout of the Macro Data Refining Department begins to peel the cover off these mysteries slowly, viewers get a sense of the true nature of those he is surrounded by. One of the most intriguing people in Mark’s vicinity is Mrs. Selvig, one of the few people Mark interacts with outside work. Therefore, viewers must be curious to learn more about Mrs. Selvig and the shocking twist that connects her to Lumon. In that case, here’s everything you need to know about Mrs. Selving from ‘Severance.’ SPOILERS AHEAD! Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Mrs. Selvig is introduced in the series premiere episode of ‘Severance.’ She is Mark’s next-door neighbor who calls him constantly as she is confused about the garbage collection system. Actress Patricia Arquette essays the role of Mrs. Selvig in the series. Arquette is a Golden Globe Award and Primetime Emmy Award-winning actress known for her performances in hit shows such as ‘Medium,’ ‘The Act,’ and ‘Boardwalk Empire.’ Some viewers might recognize Arquette as Olivia Evans from ‘Boyhood,’ for which she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. After hearing Mrs. Selvig’s voice for most of the first episode, we meet her in person in the final moments. As it turns out, Mrs. Selvig is none other than mark’s boss at work, Ms. Harmony Cobel. At work, Ms. Cobel promotes Mark to department head after Petey leaves Lumon Industries under mysterious circumstances. Later, Mrs. Selving brings Mark some homemade cookies to apologize for the garbage bn debacle, but in reality, has some sinister ulterior motive. Is Mrs. Selvig Severed? The reveal that Mrs. Selvig is actually Mark’s boss, Ms. Cobel, is a major one as it changes the dynamics between the two characters when they are at work and outside. However, as the narrative progresses, a question is raised over Mrs. Selvig and her true intentions. In the series, it is evident that the employees of Lumon Industries who work on the severed floor have undergone a scientific procedure that separates their personal and work-related memories. Therefore, it is no surprise that Mark does not remember that Mrs. Selvig works with him. The same appears to be true for Mrs. Selvig until the third episode hints otherwise. In the third episode, after mark leaves for work, Mrs. Selvig snoops into his house. She removes a book left at Mark’s doorstep by his brother-in-law. Mrs. Selvig later sneaks into Mark’s basement and goes through his stuff. Shortly afterward, she receives a call which is presumably from her workplace. Mrs. Selvig/Ms. Cobel arrives at her office and has a brief conversation with Mr. Milchick. The duo discusses mark’s life outside work and comments on the book left for Mark. Thus, it is evident from the conversation that Mrs. Selvig/Ms. Cobel is not severed and retains all her memories at all times. It will be interesting to see how this revelation will affect Mark’s upcoming episodes.


--- [Harmony Cobel | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Harmony Cobel is the former manager of the Lumon Branch 501 Severed Floor. History[] Harmony grew up in Salt's Neck, where she worked in the local Lumon ether factory alongside her friend Hampton. She later attended the Myrtle Eagan School For Girls and grew up with the teachings of Kier Eagan. During this time, her mother Charlotte became ill and was put on life support under the supervision of Harmony's aunt Celestine, Charlotte's sister. Charlotte later died while Harmony was away at school. Harmony grew up blaming her aunt for her mother's death, but according to Celestine, Charlotte chose to end her own life by removing her breathing tube. While at school, Harmony became a Wintertide Fellow, and subsequently went on to work for Lumon at their Branch 501 facility. At some point before or during her time at Branch 501, she invented Severance technology, although the credit for its invention would go to Jame Eagan, the current CEO of Lumon Industries. She later became the head of the Branch 501 Severed floor, where she oversaw all of the severed workers, but had little contact with the Board.[1] When Mark Scout was hired and moved into Baird Creek, Harmony moved into the house next door under the alias "Mrs. Selvig," presumably to keep an eye on his mental state. She ran an independent business outside of Lumon under her false identity, but also has skills as a nanny and lactation consultant. She maintained a shrine to Kier in her home, where she kept her mother's breathing tube among various other paraphernalia. Mark was taken to Cobel's office when Petey didn't come to work one day. She told him he would be the new department chief because Petey no longer worked for Lumon. Then she sent him to train the new employee, Petey's replacement. Cobel and Milchick watched on a monitor as Mark struggled to get through the survey with Helly R., who tried to escape the room she was in. Milchick asked if he should help, but Cobel told him no. After Helly finished most of her training with Mark, she was taken to Cobel's office, where Cobel said she'd be fun because she'd thrown a speaker at Mark on her first day. She said Helly had only one part of her training left and it was a video. After Helly left, Mark came in to talk to Cobel and she berated him for messing up Helly's training by deviating from the script. Then she told him his department could be good or bad and the difference was the people. At home, Cobel lived as Mrs. Selvig in the house next to Mark, where they often conflicted over their trash and recycling bins. When Mark came home, she told him she was embarrassed that she mixed them up and told him he was a good person.[2] When Helly was caught trying to sneak a message to her outie, Mark took the blame and ended up being sent to the Break Room, where Cobel greeted him at the door. That night, Cobel, as Mrs. Selvig, came to Mark's place with chamomile cookies. Then next day, when Mark called in sick to work, she asked Milchick if he sounded sick, as they found the timing suspicious.[3] Cobel watched Mark as he walked around his house. As he went to leave, she poked her head outside, using the excuse of deicing her stoop to talk to him. Once he was gone, she went over to his house and went inside, taking a package off his porch. She took the package to work and when she found it was a book by Mark's brother-in-law, she asked Milchick to review it to check for messages just in case. Mark then came to see Cobel, despite not having submitted a prior request. He asked about taking Helly to see the Perpetuity Wing. Cobel became irritated when he mentioned Petey and told him to get MDR to their numbers. Cobel then met with the board through Natalie Kalen. They talked about Petey and Cobel said he showed signs of possible reintegration before leaving. The board insisted that was not possible and ended the conversation after telling Cobel to get MDR to their quarterly numbers.[4] Still upset with her working conditions, Helly burst into Cobel's office with her fingers in a paper cutter and threatened to cut them off unless they got her a video camera to record a message for her outie. Cobel had Milchick get it for her. Once the video was recorded, they went with her to the elevator. She left and when she returned, she had a message from her outie refusing to let her quit. When news broke that Petey had died, Graner assured Cobel that the Board would understand and not blame her. When she brought up his reintegration, Graner reminded her that the board never acknowledged reintegration. She said they needed to get his chip and Graner told her his body was set to be cremated after his funeral. Cobel, as Mrs. Selvig, went to Petey's funeral. While his mourners were distracted watching a video of him, she used a hand drill to get into Petey's head and remove his chip. She took it back to Lumon and gave it to Milchick to take to Diagnostics. Then she asked Ms. Casey to do a special wellness session with Mark, which Cobel watched on her computer screen.[5] When Helly attempted suicide and Mark found her, Cobel and Milchick greeted Mark when he returned to work the next time. Cobel told him that Helly was in the hospital, but would be okay. Then she said it had happened on his watch, implying that he was at fault. Graner came to Cobel's office and told him Petey's chip proved that he'd reintegrated. He knew the Board wouldn't like hearing that, especially with Helly's attempted suicide. Graner realized Cobel hadn't told them yet, but she just asked him to look for source signatures in the chip, so she could give it all to the Board at once. When Helly returned to work, Cobel ordered Ms. Casey to stay with her the entire day. When Milchick asked her about it, she said she was trying something new. Cobel was later watching Helly and Mark on a monitor when Graner came in and asked if she knew about MDR finding other departments. She quoted Keir to tell him she was letting them think they were free in order to control them. Graner didn't like that, but Cobel said he could talk to her when he figured out who hacked Petey's chip.[6] Cobel made Petey's chip into a necklace and began wearing it. When Graner called to tell her that he'd found out the hacker was Asal Reghabi, a former Lumon employee, she told him to find her. At work, when Mark came to check on where Ms. Casey had gone, Cobel told him that she still had to face the consequences of failing to watch Helly as instructed, even though Mark had purposely distracted her and was in the Break Room. She then showed him the footage of them in other departments and reminded them they hadn't hit their quota. She revoked their hallway privileges until they met that quota. Soon after, Cobel saw them walking in the hallway and sent Milchick to return them to MDR. She met them there and had Graner take Mark to the Break Room. Outside of work, Cobel, as Mrs. Selvig, got a job as Devon's lactation consultant, helping her breastfeed baby Eleanor. Ricken and Devon were immediately impressed when she got Eleanor to stop crying in seconds. Graner came to see Cobel at home to tell her that he'd found Asal holed up in a lab at Ganz College. She told him to let her know when he had her in custody.[7] Cobel continued helping Devon breastfeed Eleanor and they bonded over stories. Devon confided in Cobel her suspicion that Gabby Arteta was severed. Cobel asked why Devon thought Mark severed and Devon said he'd just lost his wife. Cobel went to work late that day. Natalie found her and relayed a message from the Board that Graner was dead. Cobel said that whoever killed him probably also reintegrated Petey. The Board denied that reintegration was possible, but Cobel had proof. Cobel said she was happy to share it with the Board in person. Natalie said the Board agreed to meet with her at the Eagan Family Gala the following week to discuss it.[8] As the MDR team got close to hitting their quota, Cobel and Milchick waited eagerly, watching on the monitor. Cobel told Milchick to prepare for them to finish and schedule an end-of-the-quarter wellness session for Mark. When they hit the quota, Cobel met with Mark, who told her Dylan would be staying for the waffle party. She said she'd make the arrangements and sent Mark to his wellness session, which she and Milchick watched. Milchick said it was a good sign that Mark and Ms. Casey didn't recognize each other because it meant the chips worked. When Cobel returned to her office later in the day, she found Natalie waiting for her, holding two pictures of Helly's suicide attempt. The Board was angry with her for not telling them and also for spending time at Mark's sister's house. Natalie then told Cobel she was fired. Cobel asked if the Board was even really there and a voice on the speaker said, "yes." Cobel apologized for being rude and said she'd explain everything to the Board tonight. Natalie said the Board had ended the call. Milchick then escorted Cobel out. When Cobel got home from work, she destroyed her shrine to Kier and cried on the floor until Mark came to her door to invite her to a party at Devon and Ricken's. She decided to go to the party in her own car. She arrived just in time to overhear Mark telling Devon he was contemplating a life change. When Cobel asked him about it, he said he was considering leaving his job at Lumon. She encouraged him to do it.[9] Cobel became suspicious when she noticed Mark acting oddly at the party. After Mark called her Ms. Cobel, she realized what had happened. Devon came to her and asked her to hold Eleanor. She agreed, but then she left Eleanor in another room and drove to Lumon, calling Milchick on the way to let him know that they'd activated the Overtime Contingency. She went to the gala and confronted Helly, but was unable to stop her from going on stage and telling everyone that she was an innie and was being tortured at Lumon.[10] Cobel remained fired after the innies' coup.[11] Helena brought her in for a meeting and said that her actions had saved them from disaster. As a result, they offered her a promotion to the new Severance Advisory Council. Cobel said if they really valued her expertise, she should be running the severed floor, so Cobel realized they didn't value her. They just feared her. Helena denied that, so Cobel agreed to consider their offer. Cobel went back to the house where she'd lived as Mrs. Selvig, where she ran into Mark while leaving. He tried to ask her questions, but she just told him he was easy to sway and left.[12] Cobel drove for a while and then turned around and drove back. She met with Helena and said they'd have to agree to her terms for her to come back. The first among those was running the severed floor, as she wanted to finish what she started with Cold Harbor. Helena wanted them to reset and called Natalie to set up a meeting with the board, but Cobel refused to go with Helena and instead got in her car and left.[13] Cobel went to Salt's Neck and had Hampton take her to Sissy's house, where she confronted her aunt about her mom's death and learned that her mom had pulled out her own breathing tube. While she was there, she also found the proof that she was the one who invented severance, not Jame Eagan. She told Sissy she was told she'd be banished if she told anyone. With the proof in hand, Cobel escaped using Hampton's truck. As she drove away, she took a call from Devon, who told her Mark had reintegrated. Cobel had her put Mark on the phone and asked him to tell her everything.[1] They arranged a meeting with Cobel. When she showed up, Devon asked her to take them to the cabin so they could talk to Mark's innie. She said it wasn't safe and it would be better to wait until dark. She had Mark call Milchick and feign illness to explain why he wasn't coming in to work. Once it was dark, they hid Mark in the truck bed, Devon pretended to be pregnant, and Cobel drove them to the birthing retreat, where she used coded language to get them access to the cabin. Once they were there, Mark's innie activated and Devon brought him to talk to Cobel. Devon asked if he remembered the last words he said to her and he say, "She's alive."[14] Cobel asked if he'd finished Cold Harbor and when he said no, she said that was good, because it meant Gemma was still alive and they could get her out of Lumon. She was surprised when he told her he knew of the Exports Hall from Irving's drawings. She then explained to him what he would have to do in order to get Gemma out. It involved cooperation between him and his outie, so they played a message his outie had recorded for him and waited while the two of them had a back and forth conversation. When they couldn't agree, Cobel asked to speak to innie Mark alone. She told him that the numbers were his wife and every filed he'd completed created a new innie for her. Cold Harbor was the last of those and after he completed it, he'd be done at Lumon as he'd served his purpose. She also told him that he and Helly wouldn't have a happy ending because he meant nothing to Helena. Mark responded by telling Devon and Cobel to warn Mark against activating him again before his next shift at Lumon.[15] Personality[] Harmony Cobel has a complex and layered personality that fluctuates between different modes depending on the situation and her role within the work environment at Lumon Industries. On the surface, Harmony presents as a dutiful, no-nonsense employee who is intensely loyal to the company's corporate culture. She is calm, controlled, and very much focused on maintaining the status quo. Her role as a severed supervisor in the department overseeing the workers who have undergone the procedure to separate their work and personal lives gives her a considerable amount of authority. Harmony is efficient in her job and seems to take pride in her ability to enforce the strict boundaries of the severed employees, managing their behavior with a sense of order and precision. However, as the series progresses, it becomes clear that there's more going on beneath her composed exterior. While she enforces the company's rules with cold professionalism, there are hints of a deep, almost obsessive attachment to the institution she serves. Harmony's loyalty to Lumon goes beyond just being an employee; it seems almost personal and emotional. She's not simply an enforcer. There's a level of zeal in her devotion to the company's mission, suggesting that she sees her role as part of a higher calling or moral imperative. This fanaticism toward the company is perhaps most apparent when she interacts with other characters, especially when her beliefs are challenged. In her interactions with Mark (played by Adam Scott), the main character, and other workers, Harmony's personality is also marked by a level of subtle manipulation and control. She can be both authoritative and charming, trying to maintain her authority while also using her interpersonal skills to smooth over conflicts or manipulate people when needed. Despite her more rigid persona, she occasionally reveals a more human side at times, there's an underlying vulnerability or emotional conflict that suggests she might not be as fully aligned with the company's practices as she outwardly seems. There are moments where she displays a softer, almost maternal side, especially when dealing with the severed employees. In these rare moments, she appears more empathetic, though still within the bounds of her professional role. However, these glimpses often clash with her willingness to uphold the harsh policies of the company, adding a layer of internal conflict to her character. Overall, Harmony Cobel's personality can be described as disciplined, intense, and deeply committed to the institution of Lumon, with underlying layers of complexity that suggest a more conflicted, even troubled, individual beneath the surface. Physical Description[] Harmony Cobel has distinct shoulder length silver hair. Relationships[] She loved her mother Charlotte and was deeply affected by her death, which occurred while Harmony was away at school. She resents her aunt Celestine, whom she blames for her mother's death.[1] She told outie Mark that she was a widow, but her marriage and subsequent widowhood has never been confirmed. [2] She told Innie Mark that her mother was an atheist but told Outie Mark that she was Catholic.[2] Quotes[] | Trivia[] - She attended the Myrtle Eagan School For Girls. - She drives a white Volkswagen Rabbit. Gallery[] Promotional[] Screenshots[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Sweet Vitriol, 2x08 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ Hello, Ms. Cobel, 2x01 - ↑ Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ Who Is Alive?, 2x03 - ↑ The After Hours, 2x09 - ↑ Cold Harbor, 2x10
