=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Albany Medical Center Prize - Wikipedia]
The Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research[1] is the United States ' second highest value prize in medicine and biomedical research, awarded by the Albany Medical Center. Among prizes for medicine worldwide, the Albany Medical Center Prize is the fourth most lucrative (after the $3 million Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, the $1.2 million Nobel Prize in Medicine ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albany_Medical_Center_Prize

[The Albany Prize - Albany Med Health System]
America's Most Distinguished Prize in Medicine The Albany Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research is one of the largest awards in medicine and science in the United States. The $500,000 prize has been awarded annually since 2001 for exceptional work in medicine and biomedical research. It was established by the late Morris “Marty” Silverman, a businessman from Troy, N.Y., to honor ...
URL: https://www.albanymed.org/albany/albany-prize/

[NIH Doctor Wins Top Research Prize - Midland Reporter-Telegram]
Mar 26, 2002 · Article continues below this ad Fauci, 61, became the second recipient of the $500,000 Albany Medical Center Prize.
URL: https://www.mrt.com/news/article/NIH-Doctor-Wins-Top-Research-Prize-7815090.php

[AIDS Researcher Fauci Wins Prize - The New York Times]
Mar 28, 2002 · Dr Anthony S Fauci receives nation's richest medical award, $500,000 Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research; although he is known primarily for his AIDS research, Albany ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2002/03/28/us/aids-researcher-fauci-wins-prize.html

[Dr. Fauci won Albany Medical Center Prize for his research work on AIDS ...]
May 13, 2009 — Anthony S. Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH since 1984, was named on March 27, 2002 the winner ...
URL: https://www.discoverymedicine.com/Benjamin-Yang/2009/05/13/dr-fauci-won-albany-medical-center-prize-for-his-research-work-on-aids-and-his-passion-for-helping-aids-patients/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Albany Medical Center Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research is the United States' second highest value prize in medicine and biomedical research, awarded by the Albany Medical Center. Among prizes for medicine worldwide, the Albany Medical Center Prize is the fourth most lucrative (after the $3 million Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, the $1.2 million Nobel Prize in Medicine and the $1 million Shaw Prize in life science and medicine).
Awarded annually, the $500,000 prize is bestowed to any physician or scientist, or group, whose work has led to significant advances in the fields of health care and scientific research with demonstrated translational benefits applied to improved patient care.
The prize is a legacy to its founder, the late Morris "Marty" Silverman. At the inaugural awards ceremony in Albany, NY in March 2001, Silverman started a tradition that will be carried on for one hundred years, the duration of the Prize. Silverman's promise was to light one candle each year to honor that year's recipient.




--- [The Albany Prize - Albany Med Health System] ---
The Albany Prize America's Most Distinguished Prize in Medicine The Albany Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research is one of the largest awards in medicine and science in the United States. The $500,000 prize has been awarded annually since 2001 for exceptional work in medicine and biomedical research. It was established by the late Morris “Marty” Silverman, a businessman from Troy, N.Y., to honor scientists whose work has translated from “the bench to the bedside” resulting in better outcomes for patients. A $50 million gift commitment from the Marty and Dorothy Silverman Foundation to Albany Medical Center provides for the prize to be awarded annually for 100 years. Recipients, who have included Anthony Fauci, MD, former director of the National Institutes of Health, and CRISPR pioneers Emmanuelle Charpentier, PhD, and Jennifer Doudna, PhD, demonstrated significant outcomes that offer medical value of national or international importance. Past Recipients 2025 Jeffrey M. Friedman, MD, PhD 2024 Howard Y. Chang, MD, PhD Adrian K. Krainer, PhD Lynne E. Maquat, PhD 2023 Bonnie L. Bassler, PhD Jeffrey I. Gordon, MD Dennis L. Kasper, MD 2022 C. David Allis, PhD Michael Grunstein, PhD 2021 Barney S. Graham, MD, PhD Katalin Karikó, PhD Drew Weissman, MD, PhD 2020 Postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic 2019 Bert Vogelstein, MD Irving Weissman, MD 2018 James Allison, PhD Carl June, MD Steven Rosenberg, MD, PhD 2017 Emmanuelle Charpentier, PhD Jennifer A. Doudna, PhD Francisco J. M. Mojica, PhD Luciano Marraffini, PhD Feng Zhang, PhD 2016 Franz-Ulrich Hartl, MD Arthur Horwich, MD Susan Lee Lindquist, PhD 2015 Karl Deisseroth MD, PhD Xiaoliang Sunney Xie, PhD 2014 Alexander Varshavsky, PhD 2013 Brian J. Druker, MD Peter C. Nowell, MD Janet D. Rowley, MD 2012 James E. Darnell, Jr., MD Robert G. Roeder, PhD 2011 Elaine Fuchs, PhD James A. Thomson, VMD, PhD Shinya Yamanaka, MD, PhD 2010 David Botstein, PhD Francis S. Collins, MD, PhD Eric S. Lander, PhD 2009 Ralph Steinman, MD Charles Dinarello, MD Bruce Beutler, MD 2008 Elizabeth Blackburn, PhD Joan Steitz, PhD 2007 Robert J. Lefkowitz, MD Solomon H. Snyder, MD Ronald M. Evans, PhD 2006 Seymour Benzer, PhD 2005 Robert S. Langer, MD 2004 Herbert W. Boyer, PhD Stanley N. Cohen, MD 2003 Michael S. Brown, MD Joseph L. Goldstein, MD 2002 Anthony S. Fauci, MD 2001 Arnold J. Levine, PhD Morris "Marty" Silverman 1912-2006 The man who founded one of the largest prizes in medicine in the nation Marty Silverman’s spirit of unselfishness and tremendous pride in Albany Medical Center and the Capital Region remains very much alive in the Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research. As the founder one of the largest prizes in medicine in the United States - at one time second worldwide to the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine - Marty made sure the prize would survive the test of time. His $50 million gift commitment made in November 2000 remains the largest in the history of Albany Medical Center. Perhaps due to his humble upbringing in Troy, N.Y., Marty had to be persuaded to abandon his desire for anonymity as the benefactor of the Albany Prize. His goal in creating such a prize was to help focus attention on both Albany Medical Center and the city of Albany as a national and international hub of excellence in the health care industry. A graduate of Albany Law School, he moved to New York City with his wife, Dorothy, where the couple pioneered the leasing industry. In 1950, he founded his first leasing company, National Equipment Rental, which later became the North American Corporation. In 1984, Marty sold what had evolved into the largest privately owned leasing company in the United States. After his wife passed away in 1985, Marty retired and created the Marty and Dorothy Silverman Foundation. Throughout the years, the Foundation has provided support for numerous programs that benefit abused and neglected children, indigent senior citizens, as well as educational and cultural programs. In celebrating the legacy of Marty Silverman, we are inspired by his infectious optimism and joie de vivre. In awarding the Albany Prize, we pay tribute to this remarkable and generous man whose commitment to advancing biomedical research and supporting humanitarian efforts will forever be remembered. Recent News About Our Winners For their exemplary achievements and leadership in science and technology, Bonnie L. Bassler, PhD, a 2023 recipient of the Albany Prize, was awarded the National Medal of Science and Jennifer A. Doudna, PhD, and Feng Zhang, PhD, recipients of the 2017 Albany Prize, were awarded the National Medal of Technology and Innovation. Jeffrey Gordon, MD, the Dr. Robert J. Glaser Distinguished University Professor at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, and a 2023 recipient of the Albany Prize, was awarded the 21st annual Nierenberg Prize from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego. Read the article from Washington University Michael Grunstein, PhD, a 2022 recipient of the Albany Prize, has passed away at the age of 77. A professor emeritus of biological chemistry at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, he was recognized for his groundbreaking research in genetics. Read the memorial from the UCLA newsroom MIT's Robert Langer, MD, 2005 Albany Prize recipient, and a native of Albany, N.Y., received Johnson & Johnson's Dr. Paul Janssen Award which recognizes, "the most passionate and creative scientist or group of scientists in basic or clinical research, who achievements have made or have strong potential to make a measurable impact on human health." Read article from MIT News


--- [NIH Doctor Wins Top Research Prize - Midland Reporter-Telegram] ---
Associated Press Writer Dr. Anthony Fauci, a leading AIDS researcher and bioterrorism chief at the National Institutes of Health, was awarded the nation's top prize for medicine and biomedical research on Wednesday. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Fauci, 61, became the second recipient of the $500,000 Albany Medical Center Prize. Advertisement Article continues below this ad He has directed the NIH's National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984, making a series of discoveries about the working of the AIDS virus, and has dealt with bioterrorism issues in the wake of the Sept. 11 attack and anthrax scare. The award was created in 2000 following a $50 million gift to the medical center from Morris Silverman, a New York City businessman born in Troy. The son of an immigrant Polish tailor built a successful equipment leasing company. Advertisement Article continues below this ad In accepting the award, Fauci spoke about several health issues, including bioterrorism and a possible AIDS vaccine, which he said he hoped would be found in a few years. "It's critical that we have massive infusions of resources now for biodefense," he said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The first recipient of the prize was Dr. Arnold Levine, who helped identify a powerful cancer-fighting gene. ___ Advertisement Article continues below this ad On the Net: Albany Medical Center: http://www.amc.edu. Advertisement Article continues below this ad National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases: http://www.niaid.nih.gov/


--- [AIDS Researcher Fauci Wins Prize - The New York Times] ---
Supported by AIDS Researcher Fauci Wins Prize Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the pioneering immunologist and longtime director of the infectious-disease center at the National Institutes of Health, was named yesterday as the winner of the nation's richest medical award, the $500,000 Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research. Although Dr. Fauci, 61, has been in the international spotlight for his AIDS research, the Albany center said he won the prize for a larger body of work. It includes developing effective therapies for other diseases affecting the immune system and rheumatology, his overall contributions to the advancement of science and his distinguished public service. All the research was carried out during Dr. Fauci's 33 years at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Md., where he has been director since 1984. In the weeks after the anthrax attack last fall, Dr. Fauci often appeared with Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, as a government spokesman on the disease and bioterrorism. Dr. Fauci (pronounced FOW-chee) was born in Brooklyn and trained in medicine at Cornell University-New York Hospital. He joined the allergy and infectious diseases institutes in 1968. In five years, he developed what are now standard therapies for then-fatal rheumatic diseases. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Dr. Fauci won Albany Medical Center Prize for his research work on AIDS ...] ---
Dr. Fauci won Albany Medical Center Prize for his research work on AIDS and his passion for helping AIDS patients Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH since 1984, was named on March 27, 2002 the winner of the Albany Medical Center Prize. The $500,000 prize was established in November 2000 after New York businessman and philanthropist Mr. Morris Silverman donated $50 million to the Albany Medical Center. The Prize was awarded to Dr. Fauci for his “seminal contributions in helping researchers understand how the AIDS virus destroys the body’s defenses, for his groundbreaking work in developing effective therapies for several once fatal rheumatic diseases, for his current efforts in spearheading the drive for vaccines to prevent the HIV virus, smallpox, anthrax and the Ebola virus, and for his overall scientific leadership and public service,” said James J. Barba, chairman, president and CEO of Albany Medical Center. Anthony Stephen Fauci was born in 1940 in Brooklyn, New York. After graduating from Cornell University Medical College in 1966, he completed an internship and residency at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in New York City and joined NIH in 1968. Dr. Fauci was among the first to recognize that HIV lives in and destroys CD4 T cells, the cells entrusted with the duty to fight the virus. Later he found that HIV virus is active and replicating primarily in lymph nodes even during the clinically latent period. This finding published in Nature in 1993 was significant in at least two points: A, therapy should be given to patients all the time, even in latent periods; B, scientists became more realistic in dealings with the virus, aiming at long-term control of the virus instead of eradicating it. Apart from his original contributions to science, Dr. Fauci demonstrated his passion and hardwork in helping AIDS patients, and skills in educating the public and politicians about the depth and scope of the AIDS epidemic and other health threats such as bioterrorism. (Discovery Medicine, Vol. 1, No. 6, p3, 2002)
