=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Lusty Argonian Maid | Elder Scrolls - Fandom]
Main article: Books (Skyrim) Main article: Books (Oblivion) Main article: Books (Morrowind) The Lusty Argonian Maid is a book in The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Vivec City, found on the body of Crassius Curio. Anvil, in Heinrich Oaken-Hull's House. Bliss, close to the entrance gate. Cheydinhal, the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary ...
URL: https://elderscrolls.fandom.com/wiki/The_Lusty_Argonian_Maid

["The Lusty Argonian Maid" :: Elder Scrolls Scholars Guild]
Jun 11, 2017 · Any lore regarding "The Lusty Argonian Maid"? you can found "the lusty Argonian Maid" in Morrowind: (Vivec City, found on the body of Crassius Curio.) Oblivion: (Anvil, in Heinrich Oaken-Hull's House. Bliss, close to the entrance gate. Cheydinhal, the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary. Ocheeva owns a copy. Deepscorn Hollow, next to the bed of the Dark Minion. Gweden Farm, basement in the sleeping ...
URL: https://steamcommunity.com/groups/ElderScolars/discussions/0/1354868867722588330/

[The Lusty Argonian Maid - Know Your Meme]
Origin A book consisting of volumes one and two of The Lusty Argonian Maid, written by Crassius Curio, first appeared in The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind, released on May 1st, 2002, where it can be found on Crassius Curio's body in Vivec City.
URL: https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/the-lusty-argonian-maid

[The Lusty Argonian Maid Vol 1 - Elder Scrolls]
Main article: Books (Skyrim) Main article: Books (Oblivion) Main article: Books (Morrowind) Main article: Books (Online) The Lusty Argonian Maid Vol 1 is a book in The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, and The Elder Scrolls Online. Given by Crassius Curio as a quest item for The Bad Actor Heinrich Oaken-Hull's House in Anvil Southern ...
URL: https://elderscrolls.fandom.com/wiki/The_Lusty_Argonian_Maid_Vol_1

[What's the deal with Crassius Curio : r/teslore - Reddit]
You can find the lusty argonian maid in ESO which took place in 2nd era 583. You can meet the man himself in Morrowind which takes place in 3rd era 427. That's over 700 years apart. Anybody got an explaination? My current theories are elder scroll related shenanigans with someone carrying the book, or that the name Crassius Curio is just a title handed down to those worthy à la Dread Pirate ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/teslore/comments/m39p02/whats_the_deal_with_crassius_curio/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Lusty Argonian Maid | Elder Scrolls - Fandom] ---
- Main article: Books (Skyrim) - Main article: Books (Oblivion) - Main article: Books (Morrowind) The Lusty Argonian Maid is a book in The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Locations[] Morrowind[] - Vivec City, found on the body of Crassius Curio. Oblivion[] - Anvil, in Heinrich Oaken-Hull's House. - Bliss, close to the entrance gate. - Cheydinhal, the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary. Ocheeva owns a copy. - Deepscorn Hollow, next to the bed of the Dark Minion. - Gweden Farm, basement in the sleeping area. - Imperial City, found on the body of Gaston Tussaud. - Imperial City Waterfront by the pirates. - Leyawiin in Southern Books. - Dunroot Burrow, Sanctum of Decadence, behind the first bed on the left after the Chalice of Reversal. Skyrim[] - The College of Winterhold Arcanaeum, in a locked display case. - Driftshade Refuge, on a bookshelf (volume 1). - Honningbrew Meadery, next to the bed in the loft floor (volume 2). - Lucky Lorenz's Shack, a crushed house across the river from the Abandoned Prison. Next to the body of Lucky Lorenz (volume 1). - Morthal, Highmoon Hall Underneath Joric's bed. - Riften, Haelga's Bunkhouse, left of the altar of Dibella on the bedstand in Haelga's room. (Both volumes) - Riften, Riftweald Manor, found within the basement. Also on the desk near the bust of the Gray Fox. - Winterhold Jarl's Longhouse, in a room on the second floor. Dawnguard[] - Fort Dawnguard, second floor, through the most right door to Dayspring Canyon, next to some potions and a bedroll (volume 1). - Volkihar Ruins, in Valerica's study. (Volume 2) Dragonborn[] - Apocrypha, as a drop from Seekers and/or in a vessel (chest, volume 2). - Benkongerike in Solstheim in the Great Hall. On the right, inside a hut, there is a pile of both works. (13 of V1, 6 of V2) - Skaal Village, Baldor Iron-Shaper's House, under his bed. - Inside Hrodulf's House, in Solstheim. (Both volumes) Contents[] Volume 1[] Act IV, Scene III, continued Lifts-Her-Tail - Certainly not, kind sir! I am here but to clean your chambers. Crantius Colto - Is that all you have come here for, little one? My chambers? Lifts-Her-Tail - I have no idea what it is you imply, master. I am but a poor Argonian maid. Crantius Colto - So you are, my dumpling. And a good one at that. Such strong legs and shapely tail. Lifts-Her-Tail - You embarrass me, sir! Crantius Colto - Fear not. You are safe here with me. Lifts-Her-Tail - I must finish my cleaning, sir. The mistress will have my head if I do not! Crantius Colto - Cleaning, eh? I have something for you. Here, polish my spear. Lifts-Her-Tail - But it is huge! It could take me all night! Crantius Colto - Plenty of time, my sweet. Plenty of time. END OF ACT IV, SCENE III Volume 2[] Note: Volume 2 was added in The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Act VII, Scene II, Continued Lifts-Her-Tail - My goodness, that's quite a loaf! But how ever shall it fit my oven? Crantius Colto - This loaf isn't ready for baking, my sweet. It has yet to rise. Lifts-Her-Tail - If only we could hurry that along. How would I accomplish such a task? Crantius Colto - Oh, my foolish little Argonian maid, you must use your hands. Lifts-Her-Tail - You wish me to knead the loaf? Here? Crantius Colto - Of course. Lifts-Her-Tail - But what if the mistress catches me? Your loaf was meant to satisfy her appetite. Crantius Colto - Don't fret, my delicate flower. I'll satisfy the mistress's cravings later. Lifts-Her-Tail - Very well, but I'm afraid my oven isn't hot enough. It could take hours! Crantius Colto - Plenty of time, my sweet. Plenty of time. END OF ACT VII, SCENE II Trivia[] - In The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, this appeared as a single book, however in The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim it appears as two separate volumes: Volume 1, Volume 2. - In The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, Nelacar would make a reference to this book if a persuasion attempt on him was failed during "The Black Star." - In the add-on The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonborn there is a (quest item) book called Lusty Argonian Maid Folio, which contains both Volume I and Volume II. - Because both volumes of The Lusty Argonian Maid appear in The Elder Scrolls Online,[1] Crassius Curio is a "would-be" author of this literary work. According to research, The Lusty Argonian Maid has its origins in a long line of tales told by traveling bards. - The Online quest "The Unveiling" references The Lusty Argonian Maid.confirmation needed Appearances[] References[] - ↑ May 6, 2013. The Elder Scrolls Online Ask Us Anything: Variety Pack 4 This book was taken from The Elder Scrolls series of video games or from websites created and owned by Bethesda Softworks, the copyright of which is held by Bethesda Softworks. All trademarks and registered trademarks present in the image are proprietary to Bethesda Softworks, the inclusion of which implies no affiliation with The Elder Scrolls Wiki. The use of such images is believed to fall under the fair use doctrine of copyright law. |


--- ["The Lusty Argonian Maid" :: Elder Scrolls Scholars Guild] ---
Install Steam sign in | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem


--- [The Lusty Argonian Maid - Know Your Meme] ---
The Lusty Argonian Maid Submission 6,362 Part of a series on The Elder Scrolls. [View Related Entries] The Lusty Argonian Maid Part of a series on The Elder Scrolls. [View Related Entries] This submission is currently being researched & evaluated! You can help confirm this entry by contributing facts, media, and other evidence of notability and mutation. | Navigation | | About • Origin • Spread • Various Examples • Search Interest • External References • Recent Images • Recent Videos | About The Lusty Argonian Maid is a romance book and stage play in The Elder Scrolls (TES) universe and series of video games written by a character named Crassius Curio. Two volumes of the novel can be found in The Elder Scrolls games Morrowind, Oblivion and Skyrim. Each volume, written in the style of a play, depicts a scene between a self-insert of Curio named Crantius Colto and his Argonian maid (a race of anthropomorphic lizard people), named Lifts-Her-Tail, as he seduces her. Online, the book has inspired a variety of memes and fan art throughout the 2000s, 2010s and 2020s, including fan art depicting the Argonian maid. According to The Elder Scrolls lore, the tale of the lusty Argonian maid was passed down by traveling bards, suggesting Curio's play is only one interpretation of the story. Origin A book consisting of volumes one and two of The Lusty Argonian Maid, written by Crassius Curio, first appeared in The Elder Scrolls: Morrowind, released on May 1st, 2002, where it can be found on Crassius Curio's body in Vivec City. The novel appeared again in Oblivion (2006) and again in Skyrim (2011) in which each volume is separated as its own book.[1] The book is written in the style of a stage production and focuses on a man, Crantius Colto, likely a self-insert of the author, who seduces his Argonian maid. In The Elder Scrolls Online (released in 2014), there is notably a book titled The Argonian Maid—An Oral Tradition, which explains that the story of the lusty Argonian maid has been passed down by traveling bards, each telling the story with slight differences.[10] This suggests that Curio's play is only one telling of the tale. Lifts-Her-Tail Certainly not, kind sir! I am here but to clean your chambers. Crantius Colto Is that all you have come here for, little one? My chambers? Lifts-Her-Tail I have no idea what it is you imply, master. I am but a poor Argonian maid. Crantius Colto So you are, my dumpling. And a good one at that. Such strong legs and shapely tail. Lifts-Her-Tail You embarrass me, sir! Crantius Colto Fear not. You are safe here with me. Lifts-Her-Tail I must finish my cleaning, sir. The mistress will have my head if I do not! Crantius Colto Cleaning, eh? I have something for you. Here, polish my spear. Lifts-Her-Tail But it is huge! It could take me all night! Crantius Colto Plenty of time, my sweet. Plenty of time. END OF ACT IV, SCENE III Act VII, Scene II, Continued Lifts-Her-Tail My goodness, that's quite a loaf! But how ever shall it fit my oven? Crantius Colto This loaf isn't ready for baking, my sweet. It has yet to rise. Lifts-Her-Tail If only we could hurry that along. How would I accomplish such a task? Crantius Colto Oh, my foolish little Argonian maid, you must use your hands. Lifts-Her-Tail You wish me to knead the loaf? Here? Crantius Colto Of course. Lifts-Her-Tail But what if the mistress catches me? Your loaf was meant to satisfy her appetite. Crantius Colto Don't fret, my delicate flower. I'll satisfy the mistress's cravings later. Lifts-Her-Tail Very well, but I'm afraid my oven isn't hot enough. It could take hours! Crantius Colto Plenty of time, my sweet. Plenty of time. END OF ACT VII, SCENE II On April 7th, 2008, FurAffinity[2] user Shadowcat posted a piece of artwork depicting the Lifts-Her-Tail getting ready to polish a spear, a reference to the first volume of The Lusty Argonian Maid, garnering over 700 views in 16 years. This is the earliest known piece of artwork based on the book. Spread Artwork and memes referencing the book became increasingly popularized online throughout the 2000s. For example, on April 29th, 2009, Fur Affinity[3][4][5] user Queblock posted a series of three pieces of artwork depicting the character Lifts-Her-Tail. On May 19th, 2012, YouTuber[6] Roy Kelly posted a video reading through The Lusty Argonian Maid in Skyrim, garnering over 150,000 views in 12 years. On September 14th, 2020, X[7] / Twitter artist @SAT_V12 posted a series of drawings of Lifts-Her-Tail, which was reposted to the subreddit /r/skyrim[8] on September 19th, garnering over 14,000 likes on the former and 17,000 upvotes on the latter in four years. On March 21st, 2022, YouTuber[9] Noobnut125 posted a meme about reading the book for the first time, garnering over 110,000 views in two years. On September 17th, 2024, X[11] user @themalaru posted, "The lusty argonian maid gains a really sinister subtext when you remember that the author, crassius curio, was a councelor for great house hlaalu, who make an incredible amount of wealth through argonian and khajiit slavery," garnering over 13,000 likes in a day. Various Examples Search Interest External References Recent Videos 4 total Recent Images 14 total Share Pin


--- [The Lusty Argonian Maid Vol 1 - Elder Scrolls] ---
- Main article: Books (Skyrim) - Main article: Books (Oblivion) - Main article: Books (Morrowind) - Main article: Books (Online) The Lusty Argonian Maid Vol 1 is a book in The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, and The Elder Scrolls Online. Locations[] Morrowind[] - Given by Crassius Curio as a quest item for The Bad Actor Oblivion[] - Heinrich Oaken-Hull's House in Anvil - Southern Books in Leyawiin - Gweden Farm Basement - The Sea Tub Clarabella in Anvil (inside Captain Patneim's Chest) - Augusta Calidia, Gaston Tussaud, and Ocheeva carry copies of this book Shivering Isles[] - Dunroot Burrow, Sanctum of Decadence - Outside of Bliss Plug-ins[] - Near the Dark Minion's bed in Vile Lair (The Thieves Den) - Under the Forgemaster's bed in Sundercliff Mines (Mehrunes' Razor) Skyrim[] - Haelga's Bunkhouse (Riften), left of the altar of Dibella on the bedstand in Haelga's room (Volume 1 and 2) - In a crushed house northwest of Fort Amol, across the river from the Abandoned Prison. Next to the body of Lucky Lorenz - Driftshade Refuge (Silver Hand hideout), on a bookshelf - At the lower floor of Mercer Frey's House - Can be bought from Urag gro-Shub in The Arcanaeum - On the roof of Fort Dawnguard, next to a bedrollDG - In Benkongerike Great Hall, in a small riekling tent to the right of the entrance (several copies of both volumes)DR - Inside Hrodulf's House, on top of some bloody rags next to a bedrollDR Online[] - Reaper's March, under a bridge just northeast of Jodewood Dolmen, next to a Skyshard. Contents[] Act IV, Scene III, continued Lifts-Her-Tail Certainly not, kind sir! I am here but to clean your chambers. Crantius Colto Is that all you have come here for, little one? My chambers? Lifts-Her-Tail I have no idea what it is you imply, master. I am but a poor Argonian maid. Crantius Colto So you are, my dumpling. And a good one at that. Such strong legs and shapely tail. Lifts-Her-Tail You embarrass me, sir! Crantius Colto Fear not. You are safe here with me. Lifts-Her-Tail I must finish my cleaning, sir. The mistress will have my head if I do not! Crantius Colto Cleaning, eh? I have something for you. Here, polish my spear. Lifts-Her-Tail But it is huge! It could take me all night! Crantius Colto Plenty of time, my sweet. Plenty of time. END OF ACT IV, SCENE III Trivia[] - The Argonian's "Racial Motifs" book also features an Argonian named "Lifts-Her-Tail." Gallery[] Appearances[] - The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind - The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion - The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - The Elder Scrolls Online (Part of Literature lore collection. Anonymous author, not Crassius Curio.) This book was taken from The Elder Scrolls series of video games or from websites created and owned by ZeniMax Online Studios, the copyright of which is held by ZeniMax Online Studios. All trademarks and registered trademarks present in the image are proprietary to ZeniMax Online Studios, the inclusion of which implies no affiliation with The Elder Scrolls Wiki. The use of such images is believed to fall under the fair use doctrine of copyright law. |


--- [What's the deal with Crassius Curio : r/teslore - Reddit] ---
[deleted] What's the deal with Crassius Curio You can find the lusty argonian maid in ESO which took place in 2nd era 583. You can meet the man himself in Morrowind which takes place in 3rd era 427. That's over 700 years apart. Anybody got an explaination? My current theories are elder scroll related shenanigans with someone carrying the book, or that the name Crassius Curio is just a title handed down to those worthy à la Dread Pirate Roberts. I've heard someone say it was the result of a dragon break but doesn't that just confuse timelines? Not send authors back and forward in time.
