=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Winners | International Photography Awards]
IPA 2015 TOP PHOTOGRAPHERS OF THE YEAR Maxim Dondyuk, Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation International Photographer of the Year View More →
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/?compName=IPA+2015

[IPA 2015 Winners Announced! | Photo Article]
Nov 1, 2015 · The Winners of the prestigious International Photography Awards were awarded at the Lucie Awards at Carnegie Hall, NYC on October 27, 2015. Discover a few images of this year winners.
URL: https://www.all-about-photo.com/photo-articles/photo-article/119/ipa-2015-winners-announced

[International Photography Awards - Wikipedia]
The International Photography Awards are a group of awards for professional, non-professional and student photographers on a global scale which are awarded annually at the Lucie Awards gala. The winners of the main categories are invited to attend the gala to compete for the main award of International Photographer of the Year, receiving a Lucie statue and a cash prize of $10,000.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Photography_Awards

[Winners]
... Year. Image. Ville Kansanen,. The Procession of Spectres. Discovery of the Year. View More →. Professional Category Winners. Advertising Photographer Of the ...
URL: http://www.photoawards.com/winner/index.php?compName=IPA+2015&level=pro

[The Lucie Awards Recap: International Photographer of the Year Has a ...]
Oct 28, 2015 · The 13th annual Lucie Awards (known in the industry as the “Oscars of Photography”) was held last night, October 27, in New York City’s Carnegie Hall, and got underway with “a first,” according to Susan Baraz, the Lucie’s co-chair and head of judging at the International Photography Awards: as she tore open the first envelope of the evening containing the winner of the...
URL: https://rangefinderonline.com/news-features/industry-news/the-lucie-awards-recap-international-photographer-of-the-year-has-a-tie-and-presentations-by-ann-curry-graham-nash-and-fran-drescher/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Winners | International Photography Awards] ---
International Photographer of the Year Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year The Procession of Spectres Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year Rag creations Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year leviathan Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year Schatz Images: 25 Years Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year The Unknown Soldier Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial Photographer Of the Year Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation Editorial Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Weddings in Africa Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich: Homage to Photographic Master Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Moving Images Photographer Of the Year Son Doong 360 Moving Images Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year Salterns Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Electricity shortage in Pakistan People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year To The Edge Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year BILL MAY Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [IPA 2015 Winners Announced! | Photo Article] ---
The Winners of the prestigious International Photography Awards were awarded at the Lucie Awards at Carnegie Hall, NYC on October 27, 2015. Discover a few images of this year winners. International Photographer of the year: Sandro Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich: Homage to Photographic Master This series is a collaboration with John Malkovich who is the subject of some of the most iconic photographs in photography's history. Malkovich, Malkovich, Malkovich: Homage to Photographic Masters honors photographs that have impacted Sandro Miller. He began this project in 2013 and it was on view at Catherine Edelman Gallery in Chicago and Fahey/Klein Gallery in Los Angeles in 2015. International Photographer of the Year: Maxim Dondyuk Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation Maxim Dondyuk (Ukraine, 1983) is a documentary photographer. Since 2010 he, being a freelancer, works on creating and promoting his own documentary projects. His photographic way starts in 2007, when he worked as a photojournalist in Ukrainian media. In 2011 Maxim received Noor-Nikon Masterclass in Documentary Photography in Bucharest. The list of his grants and awards is long but among them are: Magnum Photos competition '30 under 30' for emerging documentary photographers, Finalist of the W. Eugene Smith Grant in Humanistic Photography, Finalist for the FotoEvidence Book Award, Grand Prix 'Best Global Health Story' of the BD's Hope for a Healthy World Photo Competition, Grand Prix of the 'Best Photo of the Year' at the contest 'Photographer of the Year', shortlist in the portraiture category of Sony World Photography Awards etc. Since 2008 Maxim photographed the celebration of the Jewish New Year in one of the biggest centers of Jewish pilgrimage outside Israel, in Uman (Ukraine). Over some time all this was gathered in his project 'Uman, Rosh Hashana', 2008-2012. Since 2010 till 2013 Maxim worked on his another project 'The Crimea Sich', it is about military patriotic camp for children and future Cossacks. In 2010-2012 he opened hushed TB problem in Ukraine, which managed to reach the national status, that resulted in his project 'TB epidemic in Ukraine'. Maxim through communication with patients, doctors, prisoners, he showed all the horror that is in TB hospitals and prisons, he demonstrated that government was completely indifferent to this problem. Maxim collaborates with many international editions and online media. His photos were published in TIME, Der Spiegel, STERN, Paris Match, Rolling Stone, PDN, Bloomberg Businessweek, Russian Reporter, Libération, Polka, 6Mois, Esquire etc. Also he works in cooperation with international organizations, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Maxim's works are in private and museum collections. Discovery of the Year: Ville Kansanen The Procession of Spectres Ville Kansanen was born in Espoo, Finland in 1984 and studied photography in the Glasgow School of Art before moving to Los Angeles to pursue a career as an artist in 2008. In LA, he infiltrated the local art scene and since then has showcased his work across the United States. In 2013, he moved to the Bay Area and has been producing an ongoing series of conceptual photographic works titled The Procession of Spectres, garnering support internationally. In 2014, he won the Kontinent Award for Fine Artist of the Year with his photograph "Unfolding". Deeper perspective photographer of the year: David Jay The Unknown Soldier The Unknown Soldier is a series of large scale photographs of young and severely wounded soldiers returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Advertising Photographer Of Year,Professional: Fernando Decillis Rag creations This is a series conceptualized for a laundry detergent brand. The idea is to reassure mothers that getting dirty (really dirty) encourages imagination, innovation, and active play. About Fernando Decillis: I was born in Montevideo, Uruguay. My family moved to the U.S. when I was 12. Since I was an illegal immigrant, I was not allowed to accept the scholarships I was offered for football. I had no idea what I was going to do with my life until when I was 21 and my neighbor let me borrow his camera when I took a trip to Hawaii to visit a family friend. Advertising, Beauty, Professional: Kristina Varaksina Porcelain Beauty Kristina Varaksina is a portrait photographer, focusing on emotional aspect in her fine art work. She also does beauty, advertising and editorial photography. Architecture Photographer Of Year,Professional: Timothy Griffith Leviathan Overall view of the new Riverside 66 retail development in historic Tianjin Photographed for the architect Kohn Pedersen Fox. Professional Deeper Perspective 2nde place: Giles Clarke The Recyclers of Port-au-Prince In a 200-acre toxic wasteland 5 kilometers north of Haiti's capital, Port-au-Prince, hundreds of men, women and children scavenge day and night through the burning wasteland. They earn $12 to $15 a day-on a good day-for recycling plastics as well as clothing, household items and aluminum (for smelting). Some 5,000 tons of waste is created each day in the Port-au-Prince area. About Giles Clarke: Professional Editorial, Environmental: David Burdeny Salterns Salterns are salt-making ponds, containing saline waters and high concentrations of microorganisms, algae and bacteria. Depending on the saline content, the algae in ponds turns the water various pastel hues from green to deep red. These images were captured in North and South America from fixed wing and rotor aircraft.


--- [International Photography Awards - Wikipedia] ---
The International Photography Awards are a group of awards for professional, non-professional and student photographers on a global scale which are awarded annually at the Lucie Awards gala. The winners of the main categories are invited to attend the gala to compete for the main award of International Photographer of the Year, receiving a Lucie statue and a cash prize of $10,000.




--- [Winners] ---
International Photographer of the Year Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year The Procession of Spectres Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year Rag creations Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year leviathan Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year Schatz Images: 25 Years Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year The Unknown Soldier Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial Photographer Of the Year Euromaidan: a culture of the confrontation Editorial Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Weddings in Africa Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich: Homage to Photographic Master Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Moving Images Photographer Of the Year Son Doong 360 Moving Images Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year Salterns Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Electricity shortage in Pakistan People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year To The Edge Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year BILL MAY Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [The Lucie Awards Recap: International Photographer of the Year Has a ...] ---
The 13th annual Lucie Awards (known in the industry as the “Oscars of Photography”) was held last night, October 27, in New York City’s Carnegie Hall, and got underway with “a first,” according to Susan Baraz, the Lucie’s co-chair and head of judging at the International Photography Awards: as she tore open the first envelope of the evening containing the winner of the International Photographer of the Year, Baraz let out a gasp—”There’s a tie!” The list of finalists included Howard Schatz and Christophe Viseux, among others, but the awards went to Ukrainian conflict photographer Maxim Dondyuk for the Editorial Category, and Sandro, the Chicago-based commercial portrait photographer whose delightfully astute “Malkovich, Malkovich, Malkovich” project, in which he re-imagined various classic photographs with John Malkovich as his sole subject, created “a f***ing tidal wave,” as the actor wrote him last year. (Sandro was our Photographer You Should Know last December—read more about him and his work here.) Dondyuk wasn’t in attendance last night, but a shocked Sandro took to the stage. “I would have given my left testicle that Howard would have won this,” he said. He then thanked the past recipients, including Irving Penn, pumping his award in the air when he said his name, a small tribute to the photographer who inspired his Malkovich project. The Discovery of the Year award went to the Finnish photographer Ville Kansanen for his fine-art project “The Procession of Spectres,” and the Lifetime Achievement award went to large-format documentary photographer George Tice, who recounted when he first joined the Carteret Camera Club in the 1950s and won a trophy for his photos, at just 14 years old. “I know exactly where I’ll put my Lucie,” he said. “Right next to my first trophy.” The Picture Editor of the Year went to Kathy Ryan for her work as the Director of Photography at The New York Times Magazine. A colleague accepted it on her behalf, exclaiming, “She’s the best boss ever, but also a good mom and it’s her daughter’s birthday tonight.” Fashion Layout of the Year went to Harper’s BAZAAR for its feature “Rihanna Swimming With Sharks,” created to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Jaws—the awardee thanked the photographer Norman Jean Roy for his collaboration, as well as the “fashion sharks.” Jerry Uelsmann was given the Achievement in Fine Arts award, and David Hume Kennerly received the Achievement in Photojournalism, which was presented by TV journalist Ann Curry. “I shouldn’t even be standing here,” said Kennerly as he remembered getting shipped off to Saigon at 24 years old to cover the war in Vietnam. “It’s essential that real photographers cast light in places others fear to go.” The Print Advertising Campaign of the Year award went to the New Zealand ad agency Colenso BBDO for its New Zealand Breast Cancer for Skinfoods “The Cream That Gives You Wrinkles” campaign, photographed by Karsten Thormaehlen, and the Photography Magazine of the Year was awarded to the Spain-based EXIT Magazine, which was chosen over the British Journal of Photography, Aperture Magazine, Blow Photo and Camera Austria. The Lucie Foundation then paid tribute to photographers who have passed away this year, including Phil Stern, Michel du Cille, Harold Feinstein and Mary Ellen Mark. Danny Lyon was given the Achievement in Documentary award, and photojournalist Stephanie Sinclair, who also founded the nonprofit Too Young to Wed, was given the Humanitarian Award for her work covering child marriages. Onstage, Sinclair remembered the moment when Desmond Tutu, inspired by her blunt portrayal of the lives of childbrides, asked his United Nations colleagues in a meeting when they were going to put an end to child marriage. “Everyone looked at each other,” Sinclair recounts, “and eventually they just said, ‘Now! Now, let’s end it now!'” IPA’s Deeper Perspective Photographer of the Year award went to David Jay for his intimate portraits of severely injured war veterans, and the Moving Image Photographer of the Year was awarded to Kerry Payne Stailey for her project “Left Behind,” which followed the lives of the loved ones of those who’ve committed suicide (she dedicated the trophy to her father, who took his life in the ’90s). The Achievement in Sports award was passed on to Barton Silverman, the Curator/Exhibition of the Year went to Amanda Maddox for the Getty Museum’s “Josef Koudelka: Nationality Doubtful” show, Aperture was awarded Book Publisher of the Year Classic for Tiny: Streetwise Revisited by Mary Ellen Mark, and Book Publisher of the Year Limited was handed to Ceiba for The Middle of Somewhere: Sam Harris. The Lucies brought out Graham Nash of Crosby, Stills and Nash to present the Achievement in Music award to photographer and friend Henry Diltz. They reflected on the oddity of their positions, Nash having begun as a photographer before becoming a musician and Diltz getting his start as a musician prior to pursuing photography. Nash also recounted when Diltz shot the band’s first album cover, of the three men sitting on an old couch in front of an abandoned home. A few days later they decided on their band name, but realized they were sitting in the wrong order in Diltz’s photo. When they returned to the home to take a redo, the house and the couch were gone, “torn down to sticks,” they said. They liked the original photo enough to keep it, though it’s the only one of Nash, Stills and Crosby rather than the other way around. The night finished with the Achievement in Fashion award, presented by Barney’s Creative Ambassador Simon Doonan and actress Fran Drescher, who handed off the Lucie to her friend, fashion and celebrity photographer Roxanne Lowit. “Thank you to the models who pulled me backstage when the big boys pushed me off the runway,” a soft-spoken Lowit said. “Love what you do and do what you love, because you do it better than anyone else.”
