=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award - SIGPLAN]
Feb 23, 2026 · 2007 Swarat Chaudhuri, University of Pennsylvania Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Advisor: Rajeev Alur Citation: The thesis explores a formalism called nested trees, that can represent complex branching behavior (loops and recursion) and support modular statement of context-sensitive correctness conditions.
URL: https://sigplan.org/Awards/Dissertation/

[John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award]
2007 Swarat Chaudhuri, University of Pennsylvania. Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking. Advisor: Rajeev Alur. Citation: The thesis explores a ...
URL: https://www.sigplan.org/Awards/Dissertation/

[Swarat Chaudhuri: Publications]
2007 Swarat Chaudhuri. Logics and algorithms for software model checking. Doctoral dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 2007. (pdf) (ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation Award; Maurice and Dorothy Rubinoff Award) Rajeev Alur, Pavol Cerny, and Swarat Chaudhuri.
URL: https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~swarat/pubs/index.html

[Swarat Chaudhuri - The Mathematics Genealogy Project]
If you have additional information or corrections regarding this mathematician, please use the update form. To submit students of this mathematician, please use the new data form, noting this mathematician's MGP ID of 154984 for the advisor ID.
URL: https://www.mathgenealogy.org/id.php?id=154984

[Vellum: A Scalable Framework for AI-Aided Formal Reasoning]
Swarat Chaudhuri is a Professor of Computer Science at UT Austin and a Research Scientist at Google Deepmind. His research brings together ideas from automated ...
URL: https://www.renaissancephilanthropy.org/vellum-a-scalable-framework-for-ai-aided-formal-reasoning


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award - SIGPLAN] ---
Presented annually to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes a prize of $1,000. The awardee can choose to receive the award at ICFP, SPLASH, POPL, or PLDI. At the discretion of the Selection Committee, multiple awards and/or honorable mentions may be presented for a given year. The Reynolds Dissertation Award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provides a reminder of Reynolds’s legacy and the difference a person can make in the field of programming language research. All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs. Nominations can be submitted at any time at https://reynolds26.hotcrp.com/. The nomination application consists of Nominations submitted on or before January 22nd will be considered for award that year. The nominated dissertation must have been submitted for award of the doctoral degree in the year prior to the nomination deadline, and be available in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee). Recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows: The current committee is: If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared, conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee member to select a replacement member. The SIGPLAN EC Chair will adjudicate as necessary. Property-Based Testing for the People Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce Citation: Harry Goldstein’s dissertation, Property-Based Testing for the People, makes groundbreaking contributions to software reliability by advancing the theory and practice of Property-Based Testing (PBT). His work introduces novel mathematical foundations—free and reflective generators—that automate the construction of high-quality test-case generators, dramatically improving usability and effectiveness. Through empirical studies with industrial users, Harry identified key challenges in PBT adoption and addressed them with Tyche, an interactive framework that enhances testing visibility and control. His research, bridging programming languages, software engineering, and human-computer interaction, lays the foundation for a new generation of practical, powerful PBT tools, with substantial impact across both academia and industry. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. Modular Abstractions for Efficient Hardware Design Advisor: Adrian Sampson Citation: Nigam’s dissertation lays the semantic and practical foundations for a new generation of hardware description languages, applying deep ideas from programming languages to an area long neglected by the community. As the industry shifts toward specialized hardware with smaller, agile teams, the limitations of legacy languages like Verilog have become increasingly acute. Nigam’s work offers a groundbreaking rethinking of hardware design, particularly through his novel treatment of timing via substructural type systems, enabling predictable and composable hardware semantics. His “timeline types” innovation in the Filament system, which enforces timing correctness compositionally, is already influencing industry practice. Beautifully written, technically deep, and with growing impact beyond academia, this dissertation exemplifies the best of programming languages research and will serve as a guide for future work at the intersection of PL and hardware design. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. High-Level Quantum Programming Advisor: Martin Vechev Citation: Benjamin Bichsel’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the emerging domain of quantum computing, with the goal of making quantum programming easier, provably safer, and more accessible. Specifically, the thesis tackles two key challenges in quantum programming. The first challenge is uncomputation: in a quantum program, the computation of temporary variables must be explicitly reversed to avoid unwanted side effects, making programs more complex and error-prone. The dissertation explores two approaches to this challenge: (1) a new, high-level quantum programming language called Silq, whose design and type system ensure that every temporary variable can be uncomputed automatically; (2) an algorithm for synthesizing uncomputation in existing, low-level quantum languages. The second key challenge tackled by the thesis is simulation: the ability to run quantum programs on classical computers, which is notoriously computationally expensive, yet crucial for debugging purposes. The dissertation introduces a new framework for quantum simulation, which uses abstract interpretation to trade off precision for efficiency. Overall, the thesis combines a deep insight into the nature of quantum computing with advanced programming language techniques, such as (linear) type systems and abstract interpretation. The work spans the entire range from theory to systems: each chapter comes with a working system and the corresponding clean mathematical proofs. Finally, the work has already had significant impact: the Silq language is being used in teaching at UCLA and in a textbook on quantum computing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Ron Garcia, Nadia Polikarpova, Stephen Kell Efficient and Scalable Parallel Functional Programming through Disentanglement Advisor: Umut Acar Citation: Writing understandable and performant concurrent programs, especially ones that exploit racing updates, is one of the most important problems in computing. Sam Westrick’s dissertation introduces a new concept, disentanglement, that can be exploited to design efficient parallel and concurrent programs. The work assembles a benchmark suite of existing programs to evaluate the proposed techniques and shows that the technique is widely applicable. The thesis also develops the MPL compiler and shows how disentanglement can be exploited to improve execution, notably garbage collection. Overall, the thesis is clearly written, with every technical concept introduced with an informative example, and is a pleasure to read. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Philip Wadler, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Machine Learning for Programming Language Processing Advisor: Eran Yahav Citation: Uri Alon’s dissertation has made significant contributions to the emerging area of “language models for code,” an exciting topic that lies at the intersection of Machine Learning and Programming Languages research. A central question of the dissertation is how to effectively leverage the structure available in programming languages to provide novel neural solutions to programming-related tasks. The key contribution of this work is to leverage paths in the AST representation of the program to design new machine-learning models and to apply such models to solve a number of tasks of practical importance, including code completion, code captioning, and method-name prediction, and to do this across a number of different programming languages. Overall, Uri Alon’s dissertation combines insights from the PL and ML communities in an elegant way to solve many coding-related problems of practical interest. The thesis stands out in terms of its breadth of contributions, interdisciplinary nature, and high-quality writing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Novel Polynomial Approximation Methods for Generating Correctly Rounded Elementary Functions Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: Jay Lim’s dissertation makes foundational advances on techniques for generating correctly rounded math libraries for numerous elementary functions (e.g., sin, cos, log) for multiple representations (float, posits) and rounding modes. The resulting libraries are significantly faster than the state-of-the-art while producing correct results for all inputs. This is a remarkable achievement that stands out in terms of its direct and immediate impact. In more detail, this dissertation proposes a collection of novel techniques for generating polynomial approximations that produce correctly rounded results of an elementary function. The dissertation shows how this problem can be structured as a linear-programming problem in a way that accounts for numerical errors that arise from polynomial approximation and range reduction. The dissertation also shows how to generate a single polynomial approximation that produces the correctly rounded results for multiple rounding modes and multiple precision configurations. Overall, the dissertation is very well-written and combines elegant theoretical insights with exemplary experimental results to solve an open problem of practical interest. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Understanding and Evolving the Rust Programming Language Advisor: Derek Dreyer Citation: Ralf Jung’s dissertation aims to provide an understanding and justification for the practical memory and concurrency safety that the type system of Rust is meant to enforce. The main new challenge is posed by libraries that use unsafe, aren’t checked by the type system, but are assumed to be “safe”. In particular, the usual progress-and-preservation style of proof of type soundness does not work in this setting because it relies on a closed-world assumption. To address the problem, the thesis contributes a semantic characterization of the semantics of the properties to enforce, which is non-trivial due to the richness of Rust’s typing abstractions. In collaboration with colleagues Ralf Jung developed a rich program logic, called Iris, based on ideas of higher-order, concurrent, separation logic, used to give a semantic interpretation of Rust’s types. Iris has now been used in other contexts, e.g., in the practice to reason formally about other kinds of low-level systems code (e.g., C and assembly), as well as by systems and security researchers. The primary contribution of the dissertation is the development (and validation) of a semantic model of Rust’s type system using Iris, all developed within Coq, that makes precise the informal notions that the Rust designers had in mind. That precision, in turn, makes it possible to set up criteria that unchecked libraries must satisfy in order to ensure that checked code that is linked against them will respect the memory and data-race safety properties that the type system was intended to enforce. The effectiveness is demonstrated by verifying a number of the critical un-checked library abstractions. Like Iris, the ideas underlying the verification regime proposed here transfer to reasoning about any practical systems that are a mix of of languages, e.g., to reasoning about Java programs involves reasoning about the run-time system that is implemented in C. Ralf Jung did not only formalize everything in a proof assistant, so the proofs are machine-checked and re-usable by others, but also put together practical tools that people can use today. The thesis will continue to influence PL researchers via Iris and will continue to influence practitioners via Rust. Scalable Automated Reasoning for Programs and Deep Learning Advisor: Martin Vechev and Markus Püschel Citation: The central research question addressed by Singh’s dissertation is how to enable scalable and precise automated reasoning based on the abstract interpretation framework in the domains of numerical software and deep learning models. With regard to numerical software the thesis contributes a new method to online decomposition of program variables, which speeds up the Polyhedra domain and also generalizes to other abstract domains by providing a theory that gives a general construction for obtaining decomposed transformers from existing non-decomposed ones. This method is effective in removing redundant computations at each analysis step. In addition, the thesis proposes a reinforcement learning method to learn policies for selectively losing precision at different analysis steps, which however do not impact the overall precision, because some precise steps may eventually be discarded later and hence do not affect the end result. The methods are implemented in the ELINA library, which includes a number of important numerical domains (e.g., Octagon, Polyhedra, Zone), and is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art Polyhedra library by orders of magnitude. ELINA is currently the state-of-the-art library for numerical static analysis and is used in both industry and academia To address the analysis of deep learning models, the dissertation provides a set of abstract domains, specifically designed for deep learning models. The observation motivating this design decision is that standard numerical abstract domains are not suited for analyzing neural networks due to the nature of transformations of these networks and their non-linearity. A key contribution is the DeepPoly domain and its transformers for handling the usual activation functions used in deep networks. All domains and transformers are carefully implemented in a neural network verifier, called ERAN, which is currently the state-of-the-art system for neural network certification and is also used in both academia and industry. Overall, the thesis includes everything one would like to see in an outstanding doctoral dissertation: clean mathematical concepts with corresponding efficient algorithms which solve hard and important problems, ones that have resisted a solution for decades, a complete implementation of all ideas in state-of-the-art libraries used in academia and industry, all while opening new directions of research that have been picked up by the community as demonstrated by the large set of follow-up works. Combinatorial Constructions for Effective Testing Advisor: Rupak Majumdar Citation: Soundness is at the core of most PL verification techniques and random testing is a commonly used technique for analyzing software. Developing a theory of soundness for random testing is thus very important, but very few results existed before this thesis. Randomized techniques are seldom used in (sound) program analyses; hence, addressing the problem requires the development of new ways to approaching it. Filip’s thesis is among the first to apply deep techniques from randomized algorithms and combinatorics understanding and explaining the effectiveness of random testing. In turn, the theory helps with the design of new random testing approaches. The thesis adresses a hard problem brining in novel theory and proving hard theorems. When we see a phenomenon that we cannot immediately explain (in this case that random testing is so effective), we should try to build a scientific explanation. For some problems, including random testing, it is unclear that one can actually formulate a precise theory, because the “real world” is extremely messy. The fact that Filip is able to formulate the problem precisely and prove nontrivial theorems about them is surprising and opens the door to a new field. Network Control Plane Synthesis and Verification Advisor: David Walker Citation: Ryan Beckett’s thesis addresses the highly relevant topic of ensuring the correctness of computer network configurations. Computer networks connect key components of the world’s critical infrastructure - their misconfiguration may have severe consequences for our society. While the problems Ryan considers are from the networking community, the methods that he uses to solve them are drawn from the programming languages and formal methods communities, including declarative languages, automata, logic, compilers, bisimulation, static analysis, abstraction. Using these methods Ryan thesis describes new principles, algorithms, and tools for both verification and synthesis of network control plane algorithms. On the verification side, Ryan’s key insight is that one can characterize the fixed points to which routing algorithms converge. By carefully representing the constraints that define such fixed points as SMT formula, he developed the world’s most general and efficient control plane verification engine. To further speed up verification, he defined clever new algorithms capable of computing small, abstract networks that are behaviorally equivalent to much larger ones. On the synthesis side, Ryan defines a new programming language called Propane for specifying network control plane behavior. The work demonstrates that it takes just 50 lines of code in the right high-level programming language (as opposed to 1000s of lines of configuration, per device, for hundreds of separate devices) to specify core network requirements that are compiled to industry-standard devices. Ryan also defines new analyses that guarantee correctness in the presence of device failures. Ryan’s results have been published in top programming languages and networking conferences. While all aspects of the work could easily have been submitted to programming languages or formal methods venues, submitting his work to networking conferences has certainly maximized his impact in his domain of study. Most notably, his work on the Propane language won the best paper award at SIGCOMM in 2016. With his thesis, Ryan Beckett has demonstrated his capability to conduct truly interdisciplinary research of the highest scientific quality: The results were possible only with a deep knowledge across the programming languages, formal methods and networking domains. Moreover, the thesis is an excellent witness of the profound impact that programming language and formal reasoning methods can have on other research areas. Probabilistic Couplings for Probabilistic Reasoning Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce and Aaron Roth Citation: The thesis explores and generalizes the COUPLING proof technique, for establishing properties of randomized algorithms. A correspondence between two different probabilistic programs (or two runs of the same program) requires the specification of the c orrelation between corresponding pairs of random draws and then extending this coupling on samples to a coupling on the resulting output distributions, which can then be used to establish the desired property on the programs. As Probabilistic Relation al Hoare Logic has just the right structure to be able to formally encode these coupling arguments, the thesis analyzes the structure of these arguments through this formal lens, justifying the attractiveness of the coupling approach in terms of compo sitionality. It then considers an enriched logic and its connection to approximate couplings, which in turn are directly connected to differential privacy. Working in this logic, it gives novel proofs of some key constructions from differential priv acy, including the exponential and sparse vector mechanisms. The proof for sparse vector is the first ever to be carried out in a machine-checkable form. Taken together, these results constitute a significant advance in our ability to mechanize key properties of important randomized algorithms such as those found in the differential privacy literature. Practical Formal Techniques and Tools for Developing LLVM’s Peephole Optimizations Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: This thesis proposes abstractions and formal tools to develop correct LLVM peephole optimizations. A domain specific language (DSL) Alive enables the specification and verification of peephole optimizations. An Alive transformation is shown to be correct automatically by encoding the transformation and correctness criteria as constraints in first-order logic, which are automatically checked for validity using an SMT solver. It then generates C++ code for an LLVM pass. Peephole optimizations in LLVM are executed numerous times until no optimization is applicable and one optimization could undo the effect of the other resulting in non-terminating compilation. A novel algorithm based on directed-acyclic-graph (DAG) composition determines whether such non-termination bugs can occur with a suite of peephole optimizations. The Alive toolkit can generate concrete input to demonstrate non-termination as well as automatically generating weakest preconditions. It is actively used by the LLVM community and has detected numerous bugs in existing passes and is preventing bugs from being added to the compiler. Self-compilation and Self-verification Advisor: Mike Gordon and Magnus Myreen Citation: This thesis establishes end-to-end verification with a comprehensive chain of connections all the way from the semantics of a theorem prover expressed in set theory down to x86 machine code running it. It also makes striking use of self-application for both the compiler and the theorem prover. The “CakeML” compiler is compiled with itself. But more than that: it is formally proved correct, and the core of the theorem prover used to prove its correctness is also compiled using CakeML and formally verified using itself. Not only is this a compelling demonstration of the possibilities for formally correct software, and the promise of the CakeML system as an enabling technology for it, but gives perhaps the first really convincing correctness proof for the core of a higher-order logic interactive theorem prover. It is possible that this combination of theorem prover and formally verified path to machine code will become one of the primary platforms for developing high-assurance software. Parallel Proofs for Parallel Programs Advisor: Azadeh Farzan Citation: This thesis proposes a new solution for the problem of concurrent program verification introducing the use of explicitly parallel models and logics to represent and reason about concurrent programs. An effective way of finding a sweet spot in the cost-precision spectrum is provided, weaving together the two steps of constraint generation and cons traint resolution, offering a new way to think about proofs of concurrent programs. This paradigm shift has been missing in the space of “automated” program verification of infinite-state programs, since despite the absolute elegance of Owicki-Gries and Rely-Guarantee proof techniques, the completeness of these techniques heavily relies on the concept of auxiliary proof state. In this thesis, “inductive data flow graphs” (iDFG) offer the same completeness and elegance as the Owicki-Gries method minus the need for the auxiliary state in generating provably “compact” proof arguments. The elegance of iDFGs are generalized into a proof method “proof spaces” for concurrent programs with “unboundedly” many threads. Automatic Reasoning for Pointer Programs Using Decidable Logics Advisor: Mooly Sagiv Citation: Automated verification of imperative data structures such as lists is challenging because of the need to define complex loop invariants that have a sensible interpretation in an underlying program logic. This thesis presents a number of foundational results that greatly simplify the proof obligations that must be provided by the programmer for the verification of such programs. Through the introduction and application of concepts such as deterministic transitive closure and property-directed reachability, the thesis demonstrates the feasibility of using a decidable logic (EPR) as an effective basis for answering reachability queries on an expressive class of imperative list-manipulating programs. The thesis also extends these foundational ideas to define modular principles for reasoning about imperative data structures across procedure boundaries. These contributions ultimately lead to a system that can effectively infer loop invariants from an expressive template family using existing SAT solver and shape analysis technology. Collectively, these results lead to a thesis that makes very important foundational and practical contributions to our understanding of the potential of automated program verification and its application to real-world programs. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan A Dependently Typed Language with Nontermination Advisor: Stephanie Weirich Citation: This work represents a major step toward the holy grail of “general-purpose dependently typed programming” – i.e., the design of programming languages that allow programs to be written using the full spectrum of standard features and idioms while, supporting machine-checked correctness proofs for these programs, expressed in the very same language. Such languages, combining the logical power of full-spectrum dependent languages such as Coq and Agda with the convenience and expressiveness of mainstream functional languages and supporting “lightweight verification” targeting just the most important properties of the most critical parts of the code, have been imagined for decades, but realizing this dream has proved technically challenging. The language and its accompanying metatheory introduce two important innovations. The first, and more technical, of these is the design of a core language combining a call-by-value evaluation order, a pragmatically motivated treatment of computational irrelevance (to support compilation to efficient machine code), and a novel treatment of propositional equality. The second is a new approach to surface-language design, where two terms (including proof terms) are considered to be equivalent if one can be rewritten to the other by applying a set of “known equalities” arising from previous definitions, which is quite convenient and intuitive for programmers. This beautiful thesis will be a cornerstone of a new generation of language designs supporting significantly more robust and reliable software development. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan The C11 and C++11 Concurrency Model Advisor: Peter Sewell Citation: Mark Batty’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the understanding of memory models for C and C++. The ISO C++ committee proposed a design for C and C++ concurrency that was not up to the task of capturing a realistic relaxed-memory concurrency model. Batty’s work uncovered a number of subtle and serious flaws in the design, and produced an improved design in completely rigorous and machine-checked mathematics. Using software tools to explore the consequences of the design, derived directly from the mathematics, it showed that it has the desired behavior on many examples, and developed mechanized proofs that the design meets some of the original goals, showing that for programs in various subsets of the language one can reason in simpler models. The standards committee have adopted this work in their C11, C++11, and C++14 standards. The members of the award committee were impressed with the quality of the work, the impact it has had on the standardization process for C++, and the clarity of the presentation. Understanding and Expressing Scalable Concurrency Advisor: Mitchell Wand Citation: Aaron Turon’s dissertation makes several major contributions to the design, implementation, and verification of scalable concurrent programs. First, the dissertation presents “reagents”, a high-level language of combinators for designing—and composing—lock-free data structures. Second, the dissertation shows how lock-free data structures can be used to scalably implement Fournet and Gonthier’s join calculus, in a newly re-engineered C# library that significantly outperforms prior lock-based implementations. Third, the dissertation develops powerful theoretical foundations—based on logical relations and separation logic—for verifying the correctness of scalable concurrent algorithms via contextual refinement. The members of the award committee were impressed with both the breadth and depth of the work, as well as the elegance of the exposition. Verifying Low-Level Programs via Liquid Type Inference Advisor: Ranjit Jhala Citation: Patrick Rondon’s dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of automatic program verification. It takes a type system – a highly scalable yet not quite precise method of dealing with programs – and refines it using Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) techniques to compensate for the precision loss. There are implementations for both OCaml and C. The achieved degree of effectiveness and automation is astonishing: programs that are beyond the existing verification tools can be handled fully automatically within seconds. It demonstrates that formal verification can yield significant reliability guarantees for mainstream software engineering, at a reasonable cost. In addition, the thesis contains a comprehensive formalization with very detailed, readable proofs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Simplified Semantics and Debugging of Concurrent Programs via Targeted Race Detection Advisor: Todd Millstein Citation: This dissertation addresses the problem of obtaining reliable results from concurrent programs. As a first step, the dissertation presents LiteRace, which uses sampling to dynamically detect race conditions. As a second step, the dissertation presents DRFx, which is a memory model that enforces sequential consistency, where hardware and software share responsibility for detecting violations of sequential consistency. Finally, the dissertation presents the design of an optimizing compiler that preserves sequential consistency. The dissertation thus demonstrates how a revised distribution of responsibilities among programmers, programming languages, and hardware can help detect and avoid concurrency violations. The committee was impressed with the dissertation’s broad vision for both the problems of concurrency and the possible solutions. Selection committee: - John Boyland (U. Wisconsin Milwaukee) - Chen Ding (U. Rochester) - Matthew Flatt (U. Utah) - David Gregg (Trinity U.) - Norman Ramsey (Tufts U.) - Jeremy Siek (U. Colorado) - Adam Welc (Oracle) An Effect System and Language for Deterministic-by-Default Parallel Programming Advisor: Vikram Adve Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of parallel and concurrent programming. The main technical contribution is a type and effect system that enables reasoning about non-interference at a fine granularity. A second contribution is support for non-deterministic code sections that are explicitly marked as such. A third contribution is support for object-oriented frameworks, where user extensions are guaranteed to adhere to the framework’s effect restrictions. These contributions are backed by formal models, soundness proofs, and the Deterministic Parallel Java implementation. Evaluation shows that highly satisfactory speedups can be achieved on interesting code bases, sometimes beating the performance of hand-crafted implementations. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Selection commmittee: Ras Bodik, Matthew Dwyer, Matthew Flatt, Matthew Fluet, Kevin Hammond, Nathaniel Nystrom, Kostis Sagonas, Peter Sewell, Peter Thiemann Interprocedural Analysis and the Verification of Concurrent Programs Advisor: Thomas Reps Citation: This dissertation develops improvements to interprocedural program analysis through context-bounded analysis and through Lal’s extended weighted push down systems, which generalize weighted push down systems to handle local variables. The dissertation describes both algorithms and experiments, and it shows, for example, a 30-fold speedup over existing algorithms for analyzing concurrent programs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the unusual scope and depth of the dissertation and its excellent presentation. Language and Compiler Support for Stream Programs Advisor: Saman Amarasinghe Citation: This dissertation describes the StreamIt synchronous dataflow language, for which Thies led the definition. The language supports several novel constructs, notably teleport messaging. Thies’s dissertation includes a technique for processing compressed video data, and it also describes dynamic analysis techniques to convert legacy C applications to streaming applications. The members of the award committee were impressed with the novelty, interdisciplinary nature, and breadth of the work, the care given to evaluation, and the quality of the presentation. Diagnosing and Tolerating Bugs in Deployed Systems Advisor: Kathryn McKinley Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the problems of tracking down and tolerating software errors in deployed systems. It proposes a variety of techniques, ranging from a breakthrough, probabilistic method of compactly representing calling contexts, to novel techniques for tracking null pointers, to garbage collector modifications that let programs tolerate memory leaks. The evaluation committee was impressed by Michael’s fresh perspective on these problems and the thorough experimental evaluation by which he backs up his claims. His research has already had broad adoption and impact, and we believe that his techniques will be brought to bear on a wide range of future applications. Modular Fine-grained Concurrency Verification Advisor: Alan Mycroft and Matthew Parkinson Citation: This dissertation introduces a novel logic for reasoning about concurrent shared-memory programs. This logic subsumes both rely/guarantee reasoning and separation logic in an elegant and natural manner. The dissertation establishes the semantic properties of the logic and demonstrates its applicability on a range of highly complex concurrent algorithms and data structures. The evaluation committee found the clarity of Viktor’s presentation and the technical depth of his results particularly compelling, and we believe that this work creates a foundation for new tools and automated techniques for reasoning about concurrent programs. Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Advisor: Rajeev Alur Citation: The thesis explores a formalism called nested trees, that can represent complex branching behavior (loops and recursion) and support modular statement of context-sensitive correctness conditions. It further makes a specific technical contribution by offering the first algorithm for reachability in in nested trees that is sub-cubic in performance. The committee believes this work has great potential for long-term utility. Fault Location via Dynamic Slicing Advisor: Rajiv Gupta Citation: Dynamic slicing is a technique for determining which variables and data structures affected values causing a fault (bug) at a particular location in a particular run of a program, thus allowing a programmer to work backwards to determine the ultimate cause of a fault. Previously this approach was too expensive to use in practice. Zhang has improved the performance by orders of magnitude, making it practical. The committee believes this work will have considerable impact and value in practice. Program Analysis using Random Interpretation Advisor: George Necula Isolation, Resource Management and Sharing in the KaffeOS Java Runtime System Advisor: Wilson Hsieh Advisor: Scott Nettles Path-Sensitive Value-Flow Optimizations of Programs Advisor: Rajiv Gupta and Mary Lou Soffa


--- [John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award] ---
Presented annually to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes a prize of $1,000. The awardee can choose to receive the award at ICFP, SPLASH, POPL, or PLDI. At the discretion of the Selection Committee, multiple awards and/or honorable mentions may be presented for a given year. The Reynolds Dissertation Award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provides a reminder of Reynolds’s legacy and the difference a person can make in the field of programming language research. All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs. Nominations can be submitted at any time at https://reynolds26.hotcrp.com/. The nomination application consists of Nominations submitted on or before January 22nd will be considered for award that year. The nominated dissertation must have been submitted for award of the doctoral degree in the year prior to the nomination deadline, and be available in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee). Recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows: The current committee is: If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared, conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee member to select a replacement member. The SIGPLAN EC Chair will adjudicate as necessary. Property-Based Testing for the People Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce Citation: Harry Goldstein’s dissertation, Property-Based Testing for the People, makes groundbreaking contributions to software reliability by advancing the theory and practice of Property-Based Testing (PBT). His work introduces novel mathematical foundations—free and reflective generators—that automate the construction of high-quality test-case generators, dramatically improving usability and effectiveness. Through empirical studies with industrial users, Harry identified key challenges in PBT adoption and addressed them with Tyche, an interactive framework that enhances testing visibility and control. His research, bridging programming languages, software engineering, and human-computer interaction, lays the foundation for a new generation of practical, powerful PBT tools, with substantial impact across both academia and industry. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. Modular Abstractions for Efficient Hardware Design Advisor: Adrian Sampson Citation: Nigam’s dissertation lays the semantic and practical foundations for a new generation of hardware description languages, applying deep ideas from programming languages to an area long neglected by the community. As the industry shifts toward specialized hardware with smaller, agile teams, the limitations of legacy languages like Verilog have become increasingly acute. Nigam’s work offers a groundbreaking rethinking of hardware design, particularly through his novel treatment of timing via substructural type systems, enabling predictable and composable hardware semantics. His “timeline types” innovation in the Filament system, which enforces timing correctness compositionally, is already influencing industry practice. Beautifully written, technically deep, and with growing impact beyond academia, this dissertation exemplifies the best of programming languages research and will serve as a guide for future work at the intersection of PL and hardware design. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. High-Level Quantum Programming Advisor: Martin Vechev Citation: Benjamin Bichsel’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the emerging domain of quantum computing, with the goal of making quantum programming easier, provably safer, and more accessible. Specifically, the thesis tackles two key challenges in quantum programming. The first challenge is uncomputation: in a quantum program, the computation of temporary variables must be explicitly reversed to avoid unwanted side effects, making programs more complex and error-prone. The dissertation explores two approaches to this challenge: (1) a new, high-level quantum programming language called Silq, whose design and type system ensure that every temporary variable can be uncomputed automatically; (2) an algorithm for synthesizing uncomputation in existing, low-level quantum languages. The second key challenge tackled by the thesis is simulation: the ability to run quantum programs on classical computers, which is notoriously computationally expensive, yet crucial for debugging purposes. The dissertation introduces a new framework for quantum simulation, which uses abstract interpretation to trade off precision for efficiency. Overall, the thesis combines a deep insight into the nature of quantum computing with advanced programming language techniques, such as (linear) type systems and abstract interpretation. The work spans the entire range from theory to systems: each chapter comes with a working system and the corresponding clean mathematical proofs. Finally, the work has already had significant impact: the Silq language is being used in teaching at UCLA and in a textbook on quantum computing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Ron Garcia, Nadia Polikarpova, Stephen Kell Efficient and Scalable Parallel Functional Programming through Disentanglement Advisor: Umut Acar Citation: Writing understandable and performant concurrent programs, especially ones that exploit racing updates, is one of the most important problems in computing. Sam Westrick’s dissertation introduces a new concept, disentanglement, that can be exploited to design efficient parallel and concurrent programs. The work assembles a benchmark suite of existing programs to evaluate the proposed techniques and shows that the technique is widely applicable. The thesis also develops the MPL compiler and shows how disentanglement can be exploited to improve execution, notably garbage collection. Overall, the thesis is clearly written, with every technical concept introduced with an informative example, and is a pleasure to read. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Philip Wadler, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Machine Learning for Programming Language Processing Advisor: Eran Yahav Citation: Uri Alon’s dissertation has made significant contributions to the emerging area of “language models for code,” an exciting topic that lies at the intersection of Machine Learning and Programming Languages research. A central question of the dissertation is how to effectively leverage the structure available in programming languages to provide novel neural solutions to programming-related tasks. The key contribution of this work is to leverage paths in the AST representation of the program to design new machine-learning models and to apply such models to solve a number of tasks of practical importance, including code completion, code captioning, and method-name prediction, and to do this across a number of different programming languages. Overall, Uri Alon’s dissertation combines insights from the PL and ML communities in an elegant way to solve many coding-related problems of practical interest. The thesis stands out in terms of its breadth of contributions, interdisciplinary nature, and high-quality writing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Novel Polynomial Approximation Methods for Generating Correctly Rounded Elementary Functions Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: Jay Lim’s dissertation makes foundational advances on techniques for generating correctly rounded math libraries for numerous elementary functions (e.g., sin, cos, log) for multiple representations (float, posits) and rounding modes. The resulting libraries are significantly faster than the state-of-the-art while producing correct results for all inputs. This is a remarkable achievement that stands out in terms of its direct and immediate impact. In more detail, this dissertation proposes a collection of novel techniques for generating polynomial approximations that produce correctly rounded results of an elementary function. The dissertation shows how this problem can be structured as a linear-programming problem in a way that accounts for numerical errors that arise from polynomial approximation and range reduction. The dissertation also shows how to generate a single polynomial approximation that produces the correctly rounded results for multiple rounding modes and multiple precision configurations. Overall, the dissertation is very well-written and combines elegant theoretical insights with exemplary experimental results to solve an open problem of practical interest. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Understanding and Evolving the Rust Programming Language Advisor: Derek Dreyer Citation: Ralf Jung’s dissertation aims to provide an understanding and justification for the practical memory and concurrency safety that the type system of Rust is meant to enforce. The main new challenge is posed by libraries that use unsafe, aren’t checked by the type system, but are assumed to be “safe”. In particular, the usual progress-and-preservation style of proof of type soundness does not work in this setting because it relies on a closed-world assumption. To address the problem, the thesis contributes a semantic characterization of the semantics of the properties to enforce, which is non-trivial due to the richness of Rust’s typing abstractions. In collaboration with colleagues Ralf Jung developed a rich program logic, called Iris, based on ideas of higher-order, concurrent, separation logic, used to give a semantic interpretation of Rust’s types. Iris has now been used in other contexts, e.g., in the practice to reason formally about other kinds of low-level systems code (e.g., C and assembly), as well as by systems and security researchers. The primary contribution of the dissertation is the development (and validation) of a semantic model of Rust’s type system using Iris, all developed within Coq, that makes precise the informal notions that the Rust designers had in mind. That precision, in turn, makes it possible to set up criteria that unchecked libraries must satisfy in order to ensure that checked code that is linked against them will respect the memory and data-race safety properties that the type system was intended to enforce. The effectiveness is demonstrated by verifying a number of the critical un-checked library abstractions. Like Iris, the ideas underlying the verification regime proposed here transfer to reasoning about any practical systems that are a mix of of languages, e.g., to reasoning about Java programs involves reasoning about the run-time system that is implemented in C. Ralf Jung did not only formalize everything in a proof assistant, so the proofs are machine-checked and re-usable by others, but also put together practical tools that people can use today. The thesis will continue to influence PL researchers via Iris and will continue to influence practitioners via Rust. Scalable Automated Reasoning for Programs and Deep Learning Advisor: Martin Vechev and Markus Püschel Citation: The central research question addressed by Singh’s dissertation is how to enable scalable and precise automated reasoning based on the abstract interpretation framework in the domains of numerical software and deep learning models. With regard to numerical software the thesis contributes a new method to online decomposition of program variables, which speeds up the Polyhedra domain and also generalizes to other abstract domains by providing a theory that gives a general construction for obtaining decomposed transformers from existing non-decomposed ones. This method is effective in removing redundant computations at each analysis step. In addition, the thesis proposes a reinforcement learning method to learn policies for selectively losing precision at different analysis steps, which however do not impact the overall precision, because some precise steps may eventually be discarded later and hence do not affect the end result. The methods are implemented in the ELINA library, which includes a number of important numerical domains (e.g., Octagon, Polyhedra, Zone), and is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art Polyhedra library by orders of magnitude. ELINA is currently the state-of-the-art library for numerical static analysis and is used in both industry and academia To address the analysis of deep learning models, the dissertation provides a set of abstract domains, specifically designed for deep learning models. The observation motivating this design decision is that standard numerical abstract domains are not suited for analyzing neural networks due to the nature of transformations of these networks and their non-linearity. A key contribution is the DeepPoly domain and its transformers for handling the usual activation functions used in deep networks. All domains and transformers are carefully implemented in a neural network verifier, called ERAN, which is currently the state-of-the-art system for neural network certification and is also used in both academia and industry. Overall, the thesis includes everything one would like to see in an outstanding doctoral dissertation: clean mathematical concepts with corresponding efficient algorithms which solve hard and important problems, ones that have resisted a solution for decades, a complete implementation of all ideas in state-of-the-art libraries used in academia and industry, all while opening new directions of research that have been picked up by the community as demonstrated by the large set of follow-up works. Combinatorial Constructions for Effective Testing Advisor: Rupak Majumdar Citation: Soundness is at the core of most PL verification techniques and random testing is a commonly used technique for analyzing software. Developing a theory of soundness for random testing is thus very important, but very few results existed before this thesis. Randomized techniques are seldom used in (sound) program analyses; hence, addressing the problem requires the development of new ways to approaching it. Filip’s thesis is among the first to apply deep techniques from randomized algorithms and combinatorics understanding and explaining the effectiveness of random testing. In turn, the theory helps with the design of new random testing approaches. The thesis adresses a hard problem brining in novel theory and proving hard theorems. When we see a phenomenon that we cannot immediately explain (in this case that random testing is so effective), we should try to build a scientific explanation. For some problems, including random testing, it is unclear that one can actually formulate a precise theory, because the “real world” is extremely messy. The fact that Filip is able to formulate the problem precisely and prove nontrivial theorems about them is surprising and opens the door to a new field. Network Control Plane Synthesis and Verification Advisor: David Walker Citation: Ryan Beckett’s thesis addresses the highly relevant topic of ensuring the correctness of computer network configurations. Computer networks connect key components of the world’s critical infrastructure - their misconfiguration may have severe consequences for our society. While the problems Ryan considers are from the networking community, the methods that he uses to solve them are drawn from the programming languages and formal methods communities, including declarative languages, automata, logic, compilers, bisimulation, static analysis, abstraction. Using these methods Ryan thesis describes new principles, algorithms, and tools for both verification and synthesis of network control plane algorithms. On the verification side, Ryan’s key insight is that one can characterize the fixed points to which routing algorithms converge. By carefully representing the constraints that define such fixed points as SMT formula, he developed the world’s most general and efficient control plane verification engine. To further speed up verification, he defined clever new algorithms capable of computing small, abstract networks that are behaviorally equivalent to much larger ones. On the synthesis side, Ryan defines a new programming language called Propane for specifying network control plane behavior. The work demonstrates that it takes just 50 lines of code in the right high-level programming language (as opposed to 1000s of lines of configuration, per device, for hundreds of separate devices) to specify core network requirements that are compiled to industry-standard devices. Ryan also defines new analyses that guarantee correctness in the presence of device failures. Ryan’s results have been published in top programming languages and networking conferences. While all aspects of the work could easily have been submitted to programming languages or formal methods venues, submitting his work to networking conferences has certainly maximized his impact in his domain of study. Most notably, his work on the Propane language won the best paper award at SIGCOMM in 2016. With his thesis, Ryan Beckett has demonstrated his capability to conduct truly interdisciplinary research of the highest scientific quality: The results were possible only with a deep knowledge across the programming languages, formal methods and networking domains. Moreover, the thesis is an excellent witness of the profound impact that programming language and formal reasoning methods can have on other research areas. Probabilistic Couplings for Probabilistic Reasoning Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce and Aaron Roth Citation: The thesis explores and generalizes the COUPLING proof technique, for establishing properties of randomized algorithms. A correspondence between two different probabilistic programs (or two runs of the same program) requires the specification of the c orrelation between corresponding pairs of random draws and then extending this coupling on samples to a coupling on the resulting output distributions, which can then be used to establish the desired property on the programs. As Probabilistic Relation al Hoare Logic has just the right structure to be able to formally encode these coupling arguments, the thesis analyzes the structure of these arguments through this formal lens, justifying the attractiveness of the coupling approach in terms of compo sitionality. It then considers an enriched logic and its connection to approximate couplings, which in turn are directly connected to differential privacy. Working in this logic, it gives novel proofs of some key constructions from differential priv acy, including the exponential and sparse vector mechanisms. The proof for sparse vector is the first ever to be carried out in a machine-checkable form. Taken together, these results constitute a significant advance in our ability to mechanize key properties of important randomized algorithms such as those found in the differential privacy literature. Practical Formal Techniques and Tools for Developing LLVM’s Peephole Optimizations Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: This thesis proposes abstractions and formal tools to develop correct LLVM peephole optimizations. A domain specific language (DSL) Alive enables the specification and verification of peephole optimizations. An Alive transformation is shown to be correct automatically by encoding the transformation and correctness criteria as constraints in first-order logic, which are automatically checked for validity using an SMT solver. It then generates C++ code for an LLVM pass. Peephole optimizations in LLVM are executed numerous times until no optimization is applicable and one optimization could undo the effect of the other resulting in non-terminating compilation. A novel algorithm based on directed-acyclic-graph (DAG) composition determines whether such non-termination bugs can occur with a suite of peephole optimizations. The Alive toolkit can generate concrete input to demonstrate non-termination as well as automatically generating weakest preconditions. It is actively used by the LLVM community and has detected numerous bugs in existing passes and is preventing bugs from being added to the compiler. Self-compilation and Self-verification Advisor: Mike Gordon and Magnus Myreen Citation: This thesis establishes end-to-end verification with a comprehensive chain of connections all the way from the semantics of a theorem prover expressed in set theory down to x86 machine code running it. It also makes striking use of self-application for both the compiler and the theorem prover. The “CakeML” compiler is compiled with itself. But more than that: it is formally proved correct, and the core of the theorem prover used to prove its correctness is also compiled using CakeML and formally verified using itself. Not only is this a compelling demonstration of the possibilities for formally correct software, and the promise of the CakeML system as an enabling technology for it, but gives perhaps the first really convincing correctness proof for the core of a higher-order logic interactive theorem prover. It is possible that this combination of theorem prover and formally verified path to machine code will become one of the primary platforms for developing high-assurance software. Parallel Proofs for Parallel Programs Advisor: Azadeh Farzan Citation: This thesis proposes a new solution for the problem of concurrent program verification introducing the use of explicitly parallel models and logics to represent and reason about concurrent programs. An effective way of finding a sweet spot in the cost-precision spectrum is provided, weaving together the two steps of constraint generation and cons traint resolution, offering a new way to think about proofs of concurrent programs. This paradigm shift has been missing in the space of “automated” program verification of infinite-state programs, since despite the absolute elegance of Owicki-Gries and Rely-Guarantee proof techniques, the completeness of these techniques heavily relies on the concept of auxiliary proof state. In this thesis, “inductive data flow graphs” (iDFG) offer the same completeness and elegance as the Owicki-Gries method minus the need for the auxiliary state in generating provably “compact” proof arguments. The elegance of iDFGs are generalized into a proof method “proof spaces” for concurrent programs with “unboundedly” many threads. Automatic Reasoning for Pointer Programs Using Decidable Logics Advisor: Mooly Sagiv Citation: Automated verification of imperative data structures such as lists is challenging because of the need to define complex loop invariants that have a sensible interpretation in an underlying program logic. This thesis presents a number of foundational results that greatly simplify the proof obligations that must be provided by the programmer for the verification of such programs. Through the introduction and application of concepts such as deterministic transitive closure and property-directed reachability, the thesis demonstrates the feasibility of using a decidable logic (EPR) as an effective basis for answering reachability queries on an expressive class of imperative list-manipulating programs. The thesis also extends these foundational ideas to define modular principles for reasoning about imperative data structures across procedure boundaries. These contributions ultimately lead to a system that can effectively infer loop invariants from an expressive template family using existing SAT solver and shape analysis technology. Collectively, these results lead to a thesis that makes very important foundational and practical contributions to our understanding of the potential of automated program verification and its application to real-world programs. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan A Dependently Typed Language with Nontermination Advisor: Stephanie Weirich Citation: This work represents a major step toward the holy grail of “general-purpose dependently typed programming” – i.e., the design of programming languages that allow programs to be written using the full spectrum of standard features and idioms while, supporting machine-checked correctness proofs for these programs, expressed in the very same language. Such languages, combining the logical power of full-spectrum dependent languages such as Coq and Agda with the convenience and expressiveness of mainstream functional languages and supporting “lightweight verification” targeting just the most important properties of the most critical parts of the code, have been imagined for decades, but realizing this dream has proved technically challenging. The language and its accompanying metatheory introduce two important innovations. The first, and more technical, of these is the design of a core language combining a call-by-value evaluation order, a pragmatically motivated treatment of computational irrelevance (to support compilation to efficient machine code), and a novel treatment of propositional equality. The second is a new approach to surface-language design, where two terms (including proof terms) are considered to be equivalent if one can be rewritten to the other by applying a set of “known equalities” arising from previous definitions, which is quite convenient and intuitive for programmers. This beautiful thesis will be a cornerstone of a new generation of language designs supporting significantly more robust and reliable software development. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan The C11 and C++11 Concurrency Model Advisor: Peter Sewell Citation: Mark Batty’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the understanding of memory models for C and C++. The ISO C++ committee proposed a design for C and C++ concurrency that was not up to the task of capturing a realistic relaxed-memory concurrency model. Batty’s work uncovered a number of subtle and serious flaws in the design, and produced an improved design in completely rigorous and machine-checked mathematics. Using software tools to explore the consequences of the design, derived directly from the mathematics, it showed that it has the desired behavior on many examples, and developed mechanized proofs that the design meets some of the original goals, showing that for programs in various subsets of the language one can reason in simpler models. The standards committee have adopted this work in their C11, C++11, and C++14 standards. The members of the award committee were impressed with the quality of the work, the impact it has had on the standardization process for C++, and the clarity of the presentation. Understanding and Expressing Scalable Concurrency Advisor: Mitchell Wand Citation: Aaron Turon’s dissertation makes several major contributions to the design, implementation, and verification of scalable concurrent programs. First, the dissertation presents “reagents”, a high-level language of combinators for designing—and composing—lock-free data structures. Second, the dissertation shows how lock-free data structures can be used to scalably implement Fournet and Gonthier’s join calculus, in a newly re-engineered C# library that significantly outperforms prior lock-based implementations. Third, the dissertation develops powerful theoretical foundations—based on logical relations and separation logic—for verifying the correctness of scalable concurrent algorithms via contextual refinement. The members of the award committee were impressed with both the breadth and depth of the work, as well as the elegance of the exposition. Verifying Low-Level Programs via Liquid Type Inference Advisor: Ranjit Jhala Citation: Patrick Rondon’s dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of automatic program verification. It takes a type system – a highly scalable yet not quite precise method of dealing with programs – and refines it using Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) techniques to compensate for the precision loss. There are implementations for both OCaml and C. The achieved degree of effectiveness and automation is astonishing: programs that are beyond the existing verification tools can be handled fully automatically within seconds. It demonstrates that formal verification can yield significant reliability guarantees for mainstream software engineering, at a reasonable cost. In addition, the thesis contains a comprehensive formalization with very detailed, readable proofs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Simplified Semantics and Debugging of Concurrent Programs via Targeted Race Detection Advisor: Todd Millstein Citation: This dissertation addresses the problem of obtaining reliable results from concurrent programs. As a first step, the dissertation presents LiteRace, which uses sampling to dynamically detect race conditions. As a second step, the dissertation presents DRFx, which is a memory model that enforces sequential consistency, where hardware and software share responsibility for detecting violations of sequential consistency. Finally, the dissertation presents the design of an optimizing compiler that preserves sequential consistency. The dissertation thus demonstrates how a revised distribution of responsibilities among programmers, programming languages, and hardware can help detect and avoid concurrency violations. The committee was impressed with the dissertation’s broad vision for both the problems of concurrency and the possible solutions. Selection committee: - John Boyland (U. Wisconsin Milwaukee) - Chen Ding (U. Rochester) - Matthew Flatt (U. Utah) - David Gregg (Trinity U.) - Norman Ramsey (Tufts U.) - Jeremy Siek (U. Colorado) - Adam Welc (Oracle) An Effect System and Language for Deterministic-by-Default Parallel Programming Advisor: Vikram Adve Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of parallel and concurrent programming. The main technical contribution is a type and effect system that enables reasoning about non-interference at a fine granularity. A second contribution is support for non-deterministic code sections that are explicitly marked as such. A third contribution is support for object-oriented frameworks, where user extensions are guaranteed to adhere to the framework’s effect restrictions. These contributions are backed by formal models, soundness proofs, and the Deterministic Parallel Java implementation. Evaluation shows that highly satisfactory speedups can be achieved on interesting code bases, sometimes beating the performance of hand-crafted implementations. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Selection commmittee: Ras Bodik, Matthew Dwyer, Matthew Flatt, Matthew Fluet, Kevin Hammond, Nathaniel Nystrom, Kostis Sagonas, Peter Sewell, Peter Thiemann Interprocedural Analysis and the Verification of Concurrent Programs Advisor: Thomas Reps Citation: This dissertation develops improvements to interprocedural program analysis through context-bounded analysis and through Lal’s extended weighted push down systems, which generalize weighted push down systems to handle local variables. The dissertation describes both algorithms and experiments, and it shows, for example, a 30-fold speedup over existing algorithms for analyzing concurrent programs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the unusual scope and depth of the dissertation and its excellent presentation. Language and Compiler Support for Stream Programs Advisor: Saman Amarasinghe Citation: This dissertation describes the StreamIt synchronous dataflow language, for which Thies led the definition. The language supports several novel constructs, notably teleport messaging. Thies’s dissertation includes a technique for processing compressed video data, and it also describes dynamic analysis techniques to convert legacy C applications to streaming applications. The members of the award committee were impressed with the novelty, interdisciplinary nature, and breadth of the work, the care given to evaluation, and the quality of the presentation. Diagnosing and Tolerating Bugs in Deployed Systems Advisor: Kathryn McKinley Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the problems of tracking down and tolerating software errors in deployed systems. It proposes a variety of techniques, ranging from a breakthrough, probabilistic method of compactly representing calling contexts, to novel techniques for tracking null pointers, to garbage collector modifications that let programs tolerate memory leaks. The evaluation committee was impressed by Michael’s fresh perspective on these problems and the thorough experimental evaluation by which he backs up his claims. His research has already had broad adoption and impact, and we believe that his techniques will be brought to bear on a wide range of future applications. Modular Fine-grained Concurrency Verification Advisor: Alan Mycroft and Matthew Parkinson Citation: This dissertation introduces a novel logic for reasoning about concurrent shared-memory programs. This logic subsumes both rely/guarantee reasoning and separation logic in an elegant and natural manner. The dissertation establishes the semantic properties of the logic and demonstrates its applicability on a range of highly complex concurrent algorithms and data structures. The evaluation committee found the clarity of Viktor’s presentation and the technical depth of his results particularly compelling, and we believe that this work creates a foundation for new tools and automated techniques for reasoning about concurrent programs. Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Advisor: Rajeev Alur Citation: The thesis explores a formalism called nested trees, that can represent complex branching behavior (loops and recursion) and support modular statement of context-sensitive correctness conditions. It further makes a specific technical contribution by offering the first algorithm for reachability in in nested trees that is sub-cubic in performance. The committee believes this work has great potential for long-term utility. Fault Location via Dynamic Slicing Advisor: Rajiv Gupta Citation: Dynamic slicing is a technique for determining which variables and data structures affected values causing a fault (bug) at a particular location in a particular run of a program, thus allowing a programmer to work backwards to determine the ultimate cause of a fault. Previously this approach was too expensive to use in practice. Zhang has improved the performance by orders of magnitude, making it practical. The committee believes this work will have considerable impact and value in practice. Program Analysis using Random Interpretation Advisor: George Necula Isolation, Resource Management and Sharing in the KaffeOS Java Runtime System Advisor: Wilson Hsieh Advisor: Scott Nettles Path-Sensitive Value-Flow Optimizations of Programs Advisor: Rajiv Gupta and Mary Lou Soffa


--- [Swarat Chaudhuri: Publications] ---
| | Publications DBLP page | Google scholar page Most of the papers made available here also appear in print, and the corresponding copyright is held by the publisher. However, you are permitted to download the papers and use them for individual and classroom reading. Published Papers 2026 - Clark Barrett, Swarat Chaudhuri, Fabrizio Montesi, Jim Grundy, Pushmeet Kohli, Leonardo de Moura, Alexandre Rademaker, and Sorrachai Yingchareonthawornchai. CSLib: The Lean Computer Science Library. (pdf) - Nathan Tsoi, Eric Hsiung, Masayuki Yamazaki, Swarat Chaudhuri, Peter Stone, and Joydeep Biswas. Bidirectional Value Alignment. AAMAS Blue Sky Track, 2026. (pdf) - Jialin Lu, Kye Emond, Kaiyu Yang, Swarat Chaudhuri, Weiran Sun, and Wuyang Chen. Lean finder: Semantic search for mathlib that understands user intents. International Conference for Learning Representations (ICLR), 2026. (pdf) - Chenxi Yang, Divyanshu Saxena, Rohit Dwivedula, Kshiteej Mahajan, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Aditya Akella. Canopy: Property-Driven Learning for Congestion Control. Eurosys 2026. (pdf) 2025 George Tsoukalas, Rahul Saha, Amitayush Thakur, Sabrina Reguyal, Swarat Chaudhuri. Learning Interestingness in Automated Mathematical Theory Formation. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2025. (Spotlight presentation) Amitayush Thakur, Jasper Lee, George Tsoukalas, Meghana Sistla, Matthew Zhao, Stefan Zetzsche, Greg Durrett, Yisong Yue, and Swarat Chaudhuri CLEVER: A Curated Benchmark for Formally Verified Code Generation. Neural Information Processing Systems (Dataset and Benchmarks Track), 2025. (pdf) - Rohit Dwivedula, Divyanshu Saxena, Aditya Akella, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Daehyeok Kim. Man-Made Heuristics Are Dead. Long Live Code Generators! HotNets 2025. (pdf) - Alexander Novikov, Ng�n Vu, Marvin Eisenberger, Emilien Dupont, Po-Sen Huang, Adam Zsolt Wagner, Sergey Shirobokov, Borislav Kozlovskii, Francisco JR Ruiz, Abba\ s Mehrabian, M Pawan Kumar, Abigail See, Swarat Chaudhuri, George Holland, Alex Davies, Sebastian Nowozin, Pushmeet Kohli, Matej Balog. AlphaEvolve: A coding agent for scientific and algorithmic discovery. Google DeepMind Technical Report. (pdf) - Lunyiu Nie, Zhimin Ding, Kevin Yu, Marco Cheung, Christopher Jermaine, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Resource-Efficient Inference with Foundation Model Programs. Conference on Language Models (COLM), 2025. (pdf) - Kaiyu Yang, Gabriel Poesia, Jingxuan He, Wenda Li, Kristin Lauter, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Dawn Song. Formal mathematical reasoning: A new frontier in AI. International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Position Paper Track, 2025. (Spotlight presentation) (pdf) - Eric Hsiung, Joydeep Biswas, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Automata Learning from Preference and Equivalence Queries. Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2025. (pdf) - Ameesh Shah, Cameron Voloshin, Chenxi Yang, Abhinav Verma, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Sanjit A. Seshia. LTL-Constrained Policy Optimization with Cycle Experience Replay. Transactions on Machine Learning Research (TMLR), 2025. (pdf) - Atharva Sehgal, Patrick Yuan, Ziniu Hu, Yisong Yue, Jennifer J. Sun, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Self-Evolving Visual Concept Library using Vision-Language Critics. Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2025. (pdf) - Swarat Chaudhuri. Neurosymbolic Program Synthesis. Handbook on Neurosymbolic AI and Knowledge Graphs, 2025. (pdf) 2024 - George Tsoukalas, Jasper Lee, John Jennings, Jimmy Xin, Michelle Ding, Michael Jennings, Amitayush Thakur, and Swarat Chaudhuri. PutnamBench: Evaluating Neural Theorem-Provers on the Putnam Mathematical Competition. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2024. (pdf) - Yeming Wen and Swarat Chaudhuri. Synthesize, Partition, then Adapt: Eliciting Diverse Samples from Foundation Models. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2024. - Arya Grayeli, Atharva Sehgal, Omar Costilla Reyes, Miles Cranmer, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Symbolic Regression with a Learned Concept Library. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2024. (pdf) - Abhinav Jain, Swarat Chaudhuri, Thomas Reps, and Chris Jermaine. Prompt Tuning Strikes Back: Customizing Foundation Models with Low-Rank Prompt Adaptation. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2024. (pdf) - Amitayush Thakur, George Tsoukalas, Yeming Wen, Jimmy Xin, and Swarat Chaudhuri. An In-Context Learning Agent for Formal Theorem Proving. First Conference on Language Modeling (COLM), 2024. (pdf) - Meghana A. Sistla, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Thomas Reps. Weighted Context-Free-Language Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams. Object-Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA), 2024. (pdf) - Lunyiu Nie, Zhimin Ding, Erdong Hu, Chris Jermaine, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Online Cascade Learning for Efficient Inference over Streams. International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2024. (pdf) - Anders Miltner, Ziteng Wang, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Isil Dillig. Relational Synthesis of Recursive Programs via Constrained Tree Automata. International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2024. - Meghana A. Sistla, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Thomas Reps. CFLOBDDs: Context-Free-Language Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS), 2024. Journal-first presentation at PLDI 2024. (pdf) - Yeming Wen and Swarat Chaudhuri. Batched Low-Rank Adaptation of Foundation Models. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024. (Oral presentation) (pdf) - Zayne Sprague, Xi Ye, Kaj Bostrom, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Greg Durrett. MuSR: Testing the Limits of Chain-of-thought with Multistep Soft Reasoning. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024. (Spotlight presentation) (pdf) - Atharva Sehgal, Arya Grayeli, Jennifer J. Sun, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Neurosymbolic Grounding for Compositional World Models. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024. (pdf) - Lazar Valkov, Akash Srivastava, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Charles Sutton. A Probabilistic Framework for Modular Continual Learning. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024. (pdf) - Chenxi Yang, Greg Anderson, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Certifiably Robust Reinforcement Learning through Model-Based Abstract Interpretation. IEEE Conference on Secure and Trustworthy Machine Learning (SatML), 2024. (pdf) 2023 - Divyanshu Saxena, Nihal Sharma, Donghyun Kim, Rohit Dwivedula, Jiayi Chen, Chenxi Yang, Sriram Ravula, Zichao Hu, Aditya Akella, Sebastian Angel, Joydeep Biswas, Swarat Chaudhuri, Isil Dillig, Alex Dimakis, P Godfrey, Daehyeok Kim, Chris Rossbach, and Gang Wang. On a Foundation Model for Operating Systems Machine Learning for Systems Workshop at 37th NeurIPS Conference. (pdf) - Zayne Sprague, Kaj Bostrom, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Greg Durrett. Deductive Additivity for Planning of Natural Language Proofs Workshop on Natural Language Reasoning and Structured Explanations (NLRSE). (pdf) - Meghana A. Sistla, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Thomas Reps. Symbolic Quantum Simulation with Quasimodo. International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2023. (pdf) - Greg Anderson, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Isil Dillig. Guiding Safe Exploration with Weakest Preconditions. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023. (pdf) 2022 - Zayne Sprague, Kaj Bostrom, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Greg Durrett. Natural Language Deduction with Incomplete Information. Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). (pdf) - Kaj Bostrom, Zayne Sprague, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Greg Durrett. Natural Language Deduction through Search over Statement Compositions. Findings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-Findings). (pdf) - Jennifer J. Sun, Megan Tjandrasuwita, Atharva Sehgal, Armando Solar-Lezama, Swarat Chaudhuri, Yisong Yue, and Omar Costilla Reyes. Neurosymbolic Programming for Science. NeurIPS 2022 AI for Science Workshop. (pdf) - Eric Zhan, Jennifer J. Sun, Ann Kennedy, Yisong Yue, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Unsupervised Learning of Neurosymbolic Encoders. Transactions on Machine Learning Research (TMLR), 2022. (pdf) - Cameron Voloshin, Hoang M. Le, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Yisong Yue. Policy Optimization with Linear Temporal Logic Constraints. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2022. (pdf) - Suguman Bansal, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Moshe Y. Vardi. Comparator Automata in Quantitative Verification. Logical Methods in Computer Science (LMCS), 2022. (pdf) - Chenxi Yang and Swarat Chaudhuri. Safe Neurosymbolic Learning with Differentiable Symbolic Execution. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2022. (pdf) - Anders Miltner, Adrian Trejo Nuñez, Ana Brendel, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Isil Dillig. Bottom-Up Synthesis of Recursive Functional Programs using Angelic Execution. Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2022. (Distinguished paper) (pdf) - Arkabandhu Chowdhury, Dipak Chaudhari, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Chris Jermaine. Meta-Meta Classification for One-Shot Learning. Workshop on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), 2022. (pdf) 2021 - Swarat Chaudhuri, Kevin Ellis, Oleksandr Polozov, Rishabh Singh, Armando Solar-Lezama, and Yisong Yue. Neurosymbolic Programming. Foundations and Trends in Programming Languages (FnT), 2021. (pdf) - Rohan Mukherjee, Yeming Wen, Dipak Chaudhari, Thomas W. Reps, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Chris Jermaine. Neural Program Generation Modulo Static Analysis. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2021. (Spotlight paper) (pdf) - Arkabandhu Chowdhury, Mingchao Jiang, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Chris Jermaine. Few-shot Image Classification: Just Use a Library of Pre-trained Feature Extractors and a Simple Classifier. International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2021. (pdf) - Kaj Bostrom, Xinyu Zhao, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Greg Durrett. Flexible Generation of Natural Language Deductions. Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2021. (pdf) - Megan Tjandrasuwita, Jennifer J Sun, Ann Kennedy, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Yisong Yue. Interpreting Expert Annotation Differences in Animal Behavior. Computer Vision for Animals Workshop, 2021. (pdf) - Yue Wang, Abdullah Al Redwan Newaz, Juan David Hern�ndez, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia E. Kavraki. Online Partial Conditional Plan Synthesis for POMDPs With Safe-Reachability Objectives: Methods and Experiments. IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, 2021. (pdf) - Shlok Sobti, Rahul Shome, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia E. Kavraki. A Sampling-based Motion Planning Framework for Complex Motor Actions. International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2021. (pdf) - Jiayi Wei, Tongrui Li, Swarat Chaudhuri, Isil Dillig, and Joydeep Biswas. OneVision: Centralized to Distributed Controller Synthesis with Delay Compensation. International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2021. (pdf) 2020 - Ameesh Shah*, Eric Zhan*, Jennifer J. Sun, Abhinav Verma, Yisong Yue, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Learning Differentiable Programs with Admissible Neural Heuristics. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2020. (pdf) - Greg Anderson, Abhinav Verma, Isil Dillig, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Neurosymbolic Reinforcement Learning with Formally Verified Exploration. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2020. (pdf) - Rohan Mukherjee, Chris Jermaine, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Searching a Database of Source Codes Using Contextualized Code Search. Proceedings of Very Large Databases (VLDB), 2020. (pdf) 2019 - Abhinav Verma*, Hoang M. Le*, Yisong Yue, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Imitation-Projected Programmatic Reinforcement Learning. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2019. (pdf) - Richard Cheng, Abhinav Verma, Gabor Orosz, Swarat Chaudhuri, Yisong Yue, and Joel Burdick. Control Regularization for Reduced Variance Reinforcement Learning. International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2019. (pdf) - Greg Anderson, Shankara Pailoor, Isil Dillig, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Optimization and Abstraction: A Synergistic Approach for Analyzing Neural Network Robustness. Symposium on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2019. (Distinguished Paper) (pdf) - Yue Wang, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. Point-Based Policy Synthesis for POMDPs with Boolean and Quantitative Objectives. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RAL), 2019. (pdf) - Josh Michalenko, Abhinav Verma, Ameesh Shah, Richard G. Baraniuk, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Ankit B. Patel. Representing Formal Languages: A Comparison between Finite Automata and Recurrent Neural Networks. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2019. (pdf) 2018 - Lazar Valkov, Dipak Chaudhari, Akash Srivastava, Charles A. Sutton, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Houdini: Lifelong Learning as Program Synthesis. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2018. (pdf) - Yue Wang, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. Online Partial Conditional Plan Synthesis for POMDPs with Safe-Reachability Objectives. Workshop on Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics (WAFR), 2018. (pdf) - Abhinav Verma, Vijayaraghavan Murali, Rishabh Singh, Pushmeet Kohli, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Programmatically Interpretable Reinforcement Learning. International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2018. (pdf) - Suguman Bansal, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Moshe Y. Vardi. Automata vs Linear-Programming Discounted-Sum Inclusion. International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2018. (pdf) - Neil Dantam, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. An Incremental Constraint-Based Framework for Task and Motion Planning. International Journal of Robotics Research, 2018. (pdf) - Neil Dantam, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. The Task-Motion Kit: An Open Source, General-Purpose Task and Motion-Planning Framework. IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, 2018. (pdf) - Yue Wang, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. Bounded Policy Synthesis for POMDPs with Safe-Reachability Objectives. International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS), 2018. (pdf) - Vijayaraghavan Murali, Letao Qi, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Chris Jermaine. Neural Sketch Learning for Conditional Program Generation. International Conference for Learning Representations (ICLR), 2018. (pdf) (Oral presentation) - Timon Gehr, Matthew Mirman, Dana Drachsler Cohen, Petar Tsankov, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Martin Vechev. AI2: Safety and Robustness Certification of Neural Networks with Abstract Interpretation. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P), 2018. (pdf) - Yanxin Lu, Swarat Chaudhuri, David G. Melski, and Chris Jermaine. Program Splicing. International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), 2018. (pdf) - Suguman Bansal, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Moshe Y. Vardi. Comparator Automata in Quantitative Verification. International Conference on Foundations of Software Science and Computation Structures (FoSSaCS), 2018. (pdf) 2017 Vijayaraghavan Murali, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Chris Jermaine. Bayesian Specification Learning for Finding API Usage Errors. European Software Engineering Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE), 2017. (pdf) Yu Feng, Ruben Martins, Jacon Van Geffen, Isil Dillig, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Component-Based Synthesis of Table Consolidation and Transformation Tasks from Examples. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2017. (pdf) 2016 Neil Dantam, Zachary Kingston, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. Incremental Task and Motion Planning: A Constraint-Based Approach. Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2016. (pdf) Yue Wang, Neil Dantam, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. Task and Motion Policy Synthesis as Liveness Games. International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS), 2016. (pdf) - Navid Yaghmazadeh, Christian Klinger, Isil Dillig, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Synthesizing transformations on hierarchically structured data. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2016. (pdf) - Kengo Kido, Swarat Chaudhuri and Ichiro Hasuo. Abstract interpretation with infinitesimals — towards scalability in nonstandard static analysis. International Conference on Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation (VMCAI), 2016. (pdf) 2015 - Zhenqi Huang, Yu Wang, Sayan Mitra, Geir Dullerud and Swarat Chaudhuri. Controller synthesis with inductive proofs for piecewise linear systems: an SMT-based algorithm. 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2015. - Tewodros A. Beyene, Swarat Chaudhuri, Corneliu Popeea, and Andrey Rybalchenko. Recursive Games for Compositional Program Synthesis. Verified Software: Theories, Tools, and Experiments (VSTTE), 2015. - John Feser, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Isil Dillig. Synthesizing data structure transformations from input-output examples. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2015. (pdf) - Yanxin Lu, Joe Warren, Christopher Jermaine, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Scott Rixner. Grading the Graders: Motivating Peer Graders in a MOOC. 24th International World Wide Web Conference (WWW), 2015. (pdf) 2014 - Anna Drummond, Yanxin Lu, Swarat Chaudhuri, Christopher Jermaine, Scott Rixner, and Joe Warren. Learning to Grade Student Programs in a Massive Open Online Course. IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM), 2014. - Thomas Dillig, Isil Dillig, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Optimal Guard Synthesis for Memory Safety. 26th International Conference on Computer Aided Verification (CAV), 2014. (pdf) - Rishi Surendran, Raghavan Raman, Swarat Chaudhuri, John Mellor-Crummey, and Vivek Sarkar. Test-Driven Repair of Data Races in Structured Parallel Programs. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2014. (pdf) Srinivas Nedunuri, Sailesh Prabhu, Mark Moll, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Lydia Kavraki. SMT-Based Synthesis of Integrated Task and Motion Plans from Plan Outlines. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2014. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri, Martin Clochard, and Armando Solar-Lezama. Bridging Boolean and quantitative synthesis using smoothed proof search. 41st Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2014. (pdf) Tewodros Beyene, Swarat Chaudhuri, Corneliu Popeea, and Andrey Rybalchenko. A constraint-based approach to solving games on infinite graphs. 41st Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2014. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri, Azadeh Farzan, and Zachary Kincaid. Consistency analysis of decision-making programs. 41st Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2014. (pdf) 2013 Sirinda Palahan, Domagoj Babic, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Daniel Kifer. Extraction of statistically significant malware behaviors. Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC), 2013. (pdf) - Jisheng Zhao, Roberto Lublinerman, Zoran Budimlic, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Vivek Sarkar. Isolation for nested task-parallelism. International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages and Applications (OOPSLA), 2013. (pdf) Roopsha Samanta, Jyotirmoy Deshmukh, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Robustness analysis of string transducers. Automated Technology for Verification and Analysis (ATVA), 2013. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri, Sriram Sankaranarayanan, and Moshe Y. Vardi. Regular real analysis. 28th Symposium on Logic in Computer Science (LICS), 2013. (pdf) Roopsha Samanta, Jyotirmoy Deshmukh, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Robustness analysis of networked systems. Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation (VMCAI), 2013. (pdf) 2012 Swarat Chaudhuri, Sumit Gulwani, and Roberto Lublinerman. Continuity and robustness of programs. Communications of the ACM (CACM) Research Highlight, August 2012. (html version) (pdf) [Technical perspective by Andreas Zeller] Swarat Chaudhuri and Armando Solar-Lezama. Euler: A System for Numerical Optimization of Programs. 24th International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2012. (pdf) 2011 Rajeev Alur, Swarat Chaudhuri, and P. Madhusudan. Software model checking with languages of nested trees. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS). Volume 33 Issue 5, November 2011. (pdf) - Roberto Lublinerman, Jisheng Zhao, Zoran Budimlic, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Vivek Sarkar. Delegated isolation. International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages and Applications (OOPSLA), 2011. (pdf) - Swarat Chaudhuri, Sumit Gulwani, Roberto Lublinerman, and Sara Navidpour. Proving programs robust. Joint European Software Engineering Conference and ACM Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE), 2011. (pdf) (Distinguished Paper; CACM Research Highlight) Swarat Chaudhuri and Armando Solar-Lezama. Smoothing a program soundly and robustly. 23rd International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2011. (pdf) William Enck, Damien Octeau, Patrick McDaniel, and Swarat Chaudhuri. A study of Android application security. The 20th USENIX Security Symposium, 2011. (pdf) - Saurabh Srivastava, Sumit Gulwani, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Jeff Foster. Path-based inductive synthesis for program inversion. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2011. (pdf) 2010 Pavol Cerny, Arjun Radhakrishna, Damien Zufferey, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Rajeev Alur. Model Checking of Linearizability of Concurrent List Implementations. 22nd International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2010. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri and Armando Solar-Lezama. Smooth interpretation. ACM Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), 2010. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri, Sumit Gulwani, and Roberto Lublinerman. Continuity analysis of programs. 37th Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2010. (pdf) Rajeev Alur and Swarat Chaudhuri. Temporal reasoning for procedural programs. The 11th International Conference on Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation (VMCAI), 2010. (pdf) 2009 Roberto Lublinerman, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Pavol Cerny. Parallel programming with object assemblies. International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages and Applications (OOPSLA), 2009. (pdf) (ppt) Chao Wang, Swarat Chaudhuri, Aarti Gupta, and Yu Yang. Symbolic Pruning of Concurrent Program Executions. Joint European Software Engineering Conference and ACM Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE), 2009. (pdf) 2008 Sriram Sankaranarayanan, Swarat Chaudhuri, Franjo Ivancic, Aarti Gupta. Dynamic inference of likely data preconditions over predicates by tree learning. International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA), 2008. (pdf) Swarat Chaudhuri. Subcubic algorithms for recursive state machines. 35th Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2008. (pdf) 2007 Swarat Chaudhuri. Logics and algorithms for software model checking. Doctoral dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 2007. (pdf) (ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation Award; Maurice and Dorothy Rubinoff Award) - Rajeev Alur, Pavol Cerny, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Model checking on trees with path equivalences. 13th International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems (TACAS), 2007. (pdf). Swarat Chaudhuri and Rajeev Alur. Instrumenting C programs with nested word monitors. 14th Workshop on Model Checking Software (SPIN), 2007. (pdf). 2006 - Rajeev Alur and Swarat Chaudhuri. Logics and automata for software model-checking. Lecture notes, Marktoberdorf Summer School, 2006. (pdf) - Rajeev Alur and Swarat Chaudhuri. Branching pushdown tree automata. 26th Conference on Foundations of Software Technology and Theoretical Computer Science (FSTTCS), 2006. (pdf) - Rajeev Alur, Swarat Chaudhuri, and P. Madhusudan. Languages of nested trees. 18th International Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV), 2006. (pdf) Slides (ppt). Rajeev Alur, Swarat Chaudhuri, and P. Madhusudan. A fixpoint calculus for local and global program flows. 33rd Annual Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2006. (pdf) 2005 Rajeev Alur, Swarat Chaudhuri, Kousha Etessami, and P. Madhusudan. On-the-fly reachability and cycle detection for recursive state machines. 11th International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems (TACAS), 2005. (pdf) 2003 Rajeev Alur, Swarat Chaudhuri, Kousha Etessami, Sudipto Guha, and Mihalis Yannakakis. Compression of partially ordered strings. 14th International Conference on Concurrency Theory (CONCUR), 2003. (pdf) |


--- [Swarat Chaudhuri - The Mathematics Genealogy Project] ---
Swarat Chaudhuri Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania 2007 Dissertation: Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Mathematics Subject Classification: 68—Computer science Advisor 1: Rajeev Alur No students known. If you have additional information or corrections regarding this mathematician, please use the update form. To submit students of this mathematician, please use the new data form, noting this mathematician's MGP ID of 154984 for the advisor ID.


--- [Vellum: A Scalable Framework for AI-Aided Formal Reasoning] ---
Vellum A Scalable Framework for AI-Aided Formal Reasoning The Project The Vellum project builds an open-source framework, where large language models (LLMs) act as planners and interface with multiple interactive theorem-provers (ITPs) and automated solvers, with a view to streamlining mathematical exploration and proving. By interfacing with diverse types of solvers and tools, Vellum facilitates large-scale, AI-aided formal reasoning, which in turn will simplify the automatic formalization of natural language statements and significantly lower the barriers to entry in mathematical reasoning research. The Team Swarat Chaudhuri is a Professor of Computer Science at UT Austin and a Research Scientist at Google Deepmind. His research brings together ideas from automated reasoning, machine learning, and programming languages with the goal of creating capable AI systems that are also reliable, transparent, and secure by construction. Dr. Chaudhuri received a bachelor's degree in computer science from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, in 2001, and a doctoral degree in computer science from the University of Pennsylvania in 2007. He is a 2025 Guggenheim Fellow and has received an NSF CAREER award, the ACM SIGPLAN John Reynolds Dissertation award, the Morris and Dorothy Rubinoff Dissertation award from the University of Pennsylvania, Meta and Google Research awards, and several ACM SIGPLAN and SIGSOFT distinguished paper awards. Dr. Chaudhuri has served on the program committees of all the main conferences in machine learning, formal methods, and programming languages and was a Program Chair for CAV 2016 and ICLR 2024. Dawn Song is a Professor in Computer Science at UC Berkeley and Co-Director of Berkeley Center for Responsible Decentralized Intelligence. Her research interest lies in AI and deep learning, security and privacy, and decentralization technology. She is the recipient of various awards including the MacArthur Fellowship, the Guggenheim Fellowship, the NSF CAREER Award, the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, the MIT Technology Review TR-35 Award, ACM SIGSAC Outstanding Innovation Award, and more than 10 Test-of-Time Awards and Best Paper Awards from top conferences in Computer Security and Deep Learning. She has been recognized as Most Influential Scholar (AMiner Award), for being the most cited scholar in computer security. She is an ACM Fellow and an IEEE Fellow. She is an Elected Member of American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She obtained her Ph.D. degree from UC Berkeley. She is also a serial entrepreneur and has been named on the Female Founder 100 List by Inc. and Wired25 List of Innovators. Jingxuan He is a Postdoctoral Researcher at UC Berkeley. His research broadly spans computer security, machine learning, and programming languages, with a recent focus on enhancing the safety and reliability of AI-generated software programs. He earned his Ph.D. from ETH Zurich, where he received the ETH medal for outstanding doctoral thesis. He was also a recipient of the ACM CCS 2023 distinguished paper award. Zhe Ye is a PhD student at UC Berkeley and Berkeley RDI. His research interests include LLM assisted formal verification, formal specification synthesis, and computer security. He has authored various papers in relevant areas, some of which have been accepted by top-tier conferences like IEEE S&P and ISSTA. Amitayush Thakur is a Ph.D. student at UT Austin, working at the intersection of “AI for Mathematics” and “AI for Code”. He is interested in automated mathematical reasoning through LLMs and its implication in fully verified program synthesis essential for generating industry-grade code from AI. He is the lead creator of Copra, an agentic framework for formal theorem-proving. Before joining UT, he worked as Software Engineer at Microsoft, and before that as a research intern at Microsoft Research. George Tsoukalas is a PhD student at UT Austin, working on research in neurosymbolic techniques for automated mathematical reasoning and program synthesis. He led the creation of PutnamBench, a frontier AI-for-math benchmark that received a Best Paper award at the ICML 2024 AI for Math Workshop. He also contributed to COPRA, an agentic LLM-based approach for formal theorem-proving.
