=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Canon delivers FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography ... - Canon Global]
Sep 26, 2024 · TOKYO, September 26, 2024—Canon Inc. announced today that it will ship its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing, to the Texas Institute for Electronics, a Texas-based semiconductor consortium...
URL: https://global.canon/en/news/2024/20240926.html

[Canon Inc. Delivers FPA -1200NZ2C Nanoimprint Lithography System for ...]
Oct 1, 2024 · MELVILLE, N.Y., October 1, 2024 – Canon Inc., the parent company of Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, announced that it shipped its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on September 26, 2024. Canon ...
URL: https://www.usa.canon.com/newsroom/2024/20241001-tie

[Canon Delivers FPA -1200NZ2C Nanoimprint Lithography System for ...]
Canon will continue to promote research and development using nanoimprint lithography systems for semiconductor manufacturing to contribute to the evolution of semiconductor manufacturing technology. 1 1 nm = one billionth of a meter 2 nm node: refers to a generation of technology in the semiconductor manufacturing process
URL: https://www.enxmag.com/twii/news/2024/10/canon-delivers-fpa-1200nz2c-nanoimprint-lithography-system-for-semiconductor-manufacturing-to-the-texas-institute-for-electronics/

[Canon : delivers FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography system for ...]
TOKYO, September 26, 2024-Canon Inc. announced today that it will ship its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing, to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on September 26, 2024. Canon became the first in the world to commercialize a semiconductor manufacturing system ...
URL: https://www.marketscreener.com/quote/stock/CANON-INC-6492463/news/Canon-delivers-FPA-1200NZ2C-nanoimprint-lithography-system-for-semiconductor-manufacturing-to-the-47940744/

[Canon delivers first nanoimprint lithography tool to US institute ...]
Sep 27, 2024 — Canon made quite a splash last year when it introduced its first nanoimprint lithography (NIL) machine, which can produce chips without ...
URL: https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/canon-delivers-first-nanoimprint-lithography-tool-to-us-institute-backed-by-intel-samsung-darpa


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Canon delivers FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography ... - Canon Global] ---
News Release September 26, 2024 Canon Inc. Canon delivers FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography system for semiconductor manufacturing to the Texas Institute for Electronics TOKYO, September 26, 2024—Canon Inc. announced today that it will ship its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing, to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on September 26, 2024. Canon became the first in the world to commercialize a semiconductor manufacturing system that uses NIL technology, which forms circuit patterns in a different method from conventional projection exposure technology, when it released the FPA-1200NZ2C on October 13, 2023. In contrast to conventional photolithography equipment, which transfers a circuit pattern by projecting it onto the resist coated wafer, the new product does it by pressing a mask imprinted with the circuit pattern into the resist on the wafer like a stamp. Because its circuit pattern transfer process does not go through an optical mechanism, fine circuit patterns on the mask can be faithfully reproduced on the wafer. With reduced power consumption and cost, the new system enables patterning with a minimum linewidth of 14 nm1, equivalent to the 5 nm node2 that is required to produce most advanced logic semiconductors currently available. This FPA-1200NZ2C will be used at TIE for the research and development of advanced semiconductors and production of prototypes. TIE is a semiconductor consortium which was founded in 2021 and is supported by The University of Texas at Austin. It consists of state and local governments, semiconductor companies, national research institutions and other entities. TIE provides open access to semiconductor research and development initiatives and prototyping facilities in order to help solve issues related to advanced semiconductor technology, including advanced packaging technology. Canon will continue to promote research and development using nanoimprint lithography systems for semiconductor manufacturing to contribute to the evolution of semiconductor manufacturing technology. - 1 1 nm = one billionth of a meter - 2 nm node: refers to a generation of technology in the semiconductor manufacturing process


--- [Canon Inc. Delivers FPA -1200NZ2C Nanoimprint Lithography System for ...] ---
Canon Inc. Delivers FPA -1200NZ2C Nanoimprint Lithography System for Semiconductor Manufacturing to the Texas Institute for Electronics MELVILLE, N.Y., October 1, 2024 – Canon Inc., the parent company of Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, announced that it shipped its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on September 26, 2024. Canon became the first in the world to commercialize a semiconductor manufacturing system that uses NIL technology, which forms circuit patterns in a different method from conventional projection exposure technology, when it released the FPA-1200NZ2C on October 13, 2023. In contrast to conventional photolithography equipment, which transfers a circuit pattern by projecting it onto the resist coated wafer, the new product does it by pressing a mask imprinted with the circuit pattern into the resist on the wafer like a stamp. Fine circuit patterns on the mask can be faithfully reproduced on the wafer because its circuit pattern transfer process does not go through an optical mechanism. With reduced power consumption and cost, the new system enables patterning with a minimum linewidth of 14 nm1, equivalent to the 5 nm node2 that is required to produce most advanced logic semiconductors currently available. The full release from Canon Inc. can be found here. The FPA-1200NZ2C will be used at TIE for the research and development of advanced semiconductors and production of prototypes. TIE is a semiconductor consortium which was founded in 2021 and is supported by The University of Texas at Austin. It consists of state and local governments, semiconductor companies, national research institutions and other entities. TIE provides open access to semiconductor research and development initiatives and prototyping facilities in order to help solve issues related to advanced semiconductor technology, including advanced packaging technology. Canon will continue to promote research and development using nanoimprint lithography systems for semiconductor manufacturing to contribute to the evolution of semiconductor manufacturing technology. About Canon U.S.A., Inc. Canon U.S.A., Inc. is a leading provider of consumer, business-to-business, and industrial digital imaging solutions to the United States and to Latin America and the Caribbean markets. With approximately $29.4 billion in global revenue, its parent company, Canon Inc. as of 2023 has ranked in the top-five overall in U.S. patents granted for 38 consecutive years†. Canon U.S.A. is dedicated to its Kyosei philosophy of social and environmental responsibility. To learn more about Canon, visit us at www.usa.canon.com and connect with us on LinkedIn at https://www.linkedin.com/company/canonusa. # # # † Based on weekly patent counts issued by United States Patent and Trademark Office. 1 1 nm = one billionth of a meter 2 nm node: refers to a generation of technology in the semiconductor manufacturing process


--- [Canon Delivers FPA -1200NZ2C Nanoimprint Lithography System for ...] ---
Tokyo (Sept. 26, 2024) — Canon Inc. announced today that it will ship its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing, to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on Sept. 26. Canon became the first in the world to commercialize a semiconductor manufacturing system that uses NIL technology, which forms circuit patterns in a different method from conventional projection exposure technology, when it released the FPA-1200NZ2C on Oct. 13, 2023. In contrast to conventional photolithography equipment, which transfers a circuit pattern by projecting it onto the resist coated wafer, the new product does it by pressing a mask imprinted with the circuit pattern into the resist on the wafer like a stamp. Because its circuit pattern transfer process does not go through an optical mechanism, fine circuit patterns on the mask can be faithfully reproduced on the wafer. With reduced power consumption and cost, the new system enables patterning with a minimum linewidth of 14 nm1, equivalent to the 5 nm node2 that is required to produce most advanced logic semiconductors currently available. This FPA-1200NZ2C will be used at TIE for the research and development of advanced semiconductors and production of prototypes. TIE is a semiconductor consortium which was founded in 2021 and is supported by The University of Texas at Austin. It consists of state and local governments, semiconductor companies, national research institutions and other entities. TIE provides open access to semiconductor research and development initiatives and prototyping facilities in order to help solve issues related to advanced semiconductor technology, including advanced packaging technology. Canon will continue to promote research and development using nanoimprint lithography systems for semiconductor manufacturing to contribute to the evolution of semiconductor manufacturing technology. 1 1 nm = one billionth of a meter 2 nm node: refers to a generation of technology in the semiconductor manufacturing process


--- [Canon : delivers FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography system for ...] ---
TOKYO, September 26, 2024-Canon Inc. announced today that it will ship its most advanced lithography platform, the FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography (NIL) system for semiconductor manufacturing, to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE), a Texas-based semiconductor consortium, on September 26, 2024. Canon became the first in the world to commercialize a semiconductor manufacturing system that uses NIL technology, which forms circuit patterns in a different method from conventional projection exposure technology, when it released the FPA-1200NZ2C on October 13, 2023. In contrast to conventional photolithography equipment, which transfers a circuit pattern by projecting it onto the resist coated wafer, the new product does it by pressing a mask imprinted with the circuit pattern into the resist on the wafer like a stamp. Because its circuit pattern transfer process does not go through an optical mechanism, fine circuit patterns on the mask can be faithfully reproduced on the wafer. With reduced power consumption and cost, the new system enables patterning with a minimum linewidth of 14 nm1, equivalent to the 5 nm node2 that is required to produce most advanced logic semiconductors currently available. This FPA-1200NZ2C will be used at TIE for the research and development of advanced semiconductors and production of prototypes. TIE is a semiconductor consortium which was founded in 2021 and is supported by The University of Texas at Austin. It consists of state and local governments, semiconductor companies, national research institutions and other entities. TIE provides open access to semiconductor research and development initiatives and prototyping facilities in order to help solve issues related to advanced semiconductor technology, including advanced packaging technology. Canon will continue to promote research and development using nanoimprint lithography systems for semiconductor manufacturing to contribute to the evolution of semiconductor manufacturing technology. - 1 1 nm = one billionth of a meter - 2 nm node: refers to a generation of technology in the semiconductor manufacturing process Disclaimer Canon Inc. published this content on September 26, 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by Public, unedited and unaltered, on September 26, 2024 at 01:07:24 UTC.


--- [Canon delivers first nanoimprint lithography tool to US institute ...] ---
Canon delivers first nanoimprint lithography tool to US institute backed by Intel, Samsung, DARPA Aims to sell 20 such tools over the next few years. Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Canon made quite a splash last year when it introduced its first nanoimprint lithography (NIL) machine, which can produce chips without using traditional DUV or EUV systems. But chipmakers unfamiliar with the technique were skeptical, both of this tool and the NIL method in general. Is that changing? This week the Japanese company delivered its FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography system to the Texas Institute for Electronics (TIE) for study, according to Nikkei. While this might not seem like big news, it could be a major breakthrough for Canon and nanoimprint lithography. The Texas Institute for Electronics grew out of the Nanomanufacturing Systems Center of the University of Texas 'in response to growing industry interest in advanced heterogeneous integration.' The TIE is supported by a consortium of major semiconductor companies, including Intel, NXP, and Samsung. It is also supported by DARPA, which recently awarded TIE and UT with a $1.4 billion grant to build multi-chiplet 3D processors for military and civilian applications. At TIE, Canon's FPA -1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography system will be used for research and development by chipmakers in the consortium — which is a big deal as currently Intel, NXP, and Samsung use DUV and EUV (except NXP) lithography to make chips. Studying NIL's capabilities means these companies may eventually adopt the tech at their fabs. Canon certainly seems to be pinning a lot of hopes on these trials: It targets annual sales of 10 to 20 units over the next three to five years, according to Nikkei. Traditional DUV and EUV photolithography systems use light to project a circuit pattern from a photomask onto a wafer covered in resist. By contrast, nanoimprint lithography directly stamps a mold — already patterned with the circuit design — onto the resist. This avoids the need for an optical system, allowing for more accurate replications of intricate designs in just one step, which could lower production costs. Lithography processes entire wafers at once, however, while NIL works serially and may be slower. NIL is currently capable of producing chips with 5nm technology and may eventually reach 2nm nodes, according to Canon. There are many challenges NIL faces before the technology can be broadly adopted. There are still concerns about minimizing defects from dust particles during production, for example. Also, Canon will need to collaborate with other companies to create materials compatible with this new lithography method, which will be essential for widespread industry use. Finally, NIL is incompatible with flows involving DUV or EUV, making it very challenging to integrate into existing manufacturing flows; chipmakers will have to design their production technologies around NIL — which is both expensive and risky. Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Anton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends. - thestryker This is a long shot, but another thing this could potentially do is make building a fab for a broader range of process nodes viable if the overall pricing can be brought down enough. I've read that the machines themselves and direct support structure are cheaper, but the entire process would have to be enough of a gain for this to be viable.Reply
