=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gustav Holst - Wikipedia]
Holst was educated at Cheltenham Grammar School between 1886 and 1891. [15] He started composing in or about 1886; inspired by Macaulay 's poem Horatius he began, but soon abandoned, an ambitious setting of the work for chorus and orchestra. [13]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gustav_Holst

[Gustav Holst and 'The Planets' - The History Press]
Sep 25, 2018 · Between 1886 and 1891 he attended Cheltenham Grammar School (now Pate’s Grammar School) and, after having spent four months in Oxford studying counterpoint with George Frederick Sims, organist of Merton College, Holst gave held his first concert at the Montpellier Rotunda in Cheltenham at the age of 21.
URL: https://thehistorypress.co.uk/article/gustav-holst-and-the-planets/

[Gustav Holst - Wikidata]
Gustav Holst Wikidata is a British composer 18741934Gustav Theodore Holst.
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q200867

[Gustav Holst _ AcademiaLab]
He was educated at Cheltenham Grammar School between 1886 and 1891.. He began composing around 1886; Inspired by Thomas Macaulay's poem Horatius, he began an ambitious setting of the work for choir and orchestra, but soon abandoned it. His early compositions included piano pieces, organ volunteers, songs, hymns and a symphony (from 1892).
URL: https://academia-lab.com/encyclopedia/gustav-holst/

[Gustav Holst - Wikiwand]
Holst was taught to play the piano and the violin; he enjoyed the former but hated the latter. 13 At the age of twelve he took up the trombone at his father's suggestion, thinking that playing a brass instrument might improve his asthma. 14 Holst was educated at Cheltenham Grammar School between 1886 and 1891. 15 He started composing in or ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Gustav_Holst


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gustav Holst - Wikipedia] ---
Gustav Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed many other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success. His distinctive compositional style was the product of many influences, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss being most crucial early in his development. The subsequent inspiration of the English folksong revival of the early 20th century, and the example of such rising modern composers as Maurice Ravel, led Holst to develop and refine an individual style.
There were professional musicians in the previous three generations of Holst's family, and it was clear from his early years that he would follow the same calling. He hoped to become a pianist, but was prevented by neuritis in his right arm. Despite his father's reservations, he pursued a career as a composer, studying at the Royal College of Music under Charles Villiers Stanford. Unable to support himself by his compositions, he played the trombone professionally and later became a teacher—a great one, according to his colleague Ralph Vaughan Williams. Among other teaching activities he built up a strong tradition of performance at Morley College, where he served as musical director from 1907 until 1924, and pioneered music education for women at St Paul's Girls' School, where he taught from 1905 until his death in 1934. He was the founder of a series of Whitsun music festivals, which ran from 1916 for the remainder of his life.
Holst's works were played frequently in the early years of the 20th century, but it was not until the international success of The Planets in the years immediately after the First World War that he became a well-known figure. A shy man, he did not welcome this fame, and preferred to be left in peace to compose and teach. In his later years his uncompromising, personal style of composition struck many music lovers as too austere, and his brief popularity declined. Nevertheless, he was an important influence on a number of younger English composers, including Edmund Rubbra, Michael Tippett and Benjamin Britten. Apart from The Planets and a handful of other works, his music was generally neglected until the 1980s, when recordings of much of his output became available.




--- [Gustav Holst and 'The Planets' - The History Press] ---
25th September, 2018 in Entertainment, Local & Family History Born Gustavus Theodore von Holst on 21 September 1874 at 4 Pittville Terrace, Cheltenham, Holst was the elder of two children of Adolph von Holst, a professional musician, and his wife Clara Cox, nee Lediard, the daughter of a respected Cirencester solicitor. Holst came from a musical family – his father taught piano and was organist and choirmaster at All Saints’ Church, Cheltenham and his mother was a talented singer and pianist. His great-grandfather, Matthias Holst, born in Riga, Latvia, served as composer and harp-teacher to the Imperial Russian Court in St Petersburg. When his mother, Clara, died from heart disease when he was only eight years old, Holst and his younger brother Emil (who later became known as Ernest Cossart a successful actor in the West End, New York and Hollywood) were looked after by their aunt Nina, who alongside their father, taught Holst how to play the piano and compose music. Between 1886 and 1891 he attended Cheltenham Grammar School (now Pate’s Grammar School) and, after having spent four months in Oxford studying counterpoint with George Frederick Sims, organist of Merton College, Holst gave held his first concert at the Montpellier Rotunda in Cheltenham at the age of 21. In 1893 Holst left Cheltenham for London to study composition at the Royal College of Music. After finishing at the college, Holst discovered that ‘man could not live by composition alone’ and took various organist posts at London churches and became a professional musician, playing the trombone in theatre orchestras. In 1903 Holst decided to abandon orchestral playing to concentrate on composition, however his earnings as a composer were too little to live off and in 1905 he accepted the offer of a teaching post at James Allen’s Girls’ School, Dulwich which he held until 1921. This was followed by the teaching posts for which he is probably best well known – director of music as St Paul’s Girls’ School, Hammersmith, from 1905 until his death and director of music at Morley College from 1907 to 1924. Whilst working as a teacher Holst wrote many pieces of music, including The Planets. Disillusioned and depressed by his lack of success as a composer, Holst went on a walking holiday with friends to Spain in the spring of 1913. One member of the group was Clifford Bax, a writer with an interest in the esoteric. According to Bax in his book Ideas and People, it was Bax who first introduced Holst to astrology. As a result Holst became quite a devotee of the subject and became an enthusiastic creator of horoscopes, casting them for his friends for fun. It was during this time that Holst first started thinking about a piece of music inspired by the planets. The concept of the work is astrological rather than astronomical, with each movement intended to convey the different ‘personalities’ of the planets and the ideas and emotions associated with the influence of the planets on the psyche; not the Roman deities. Originally, Holst composed The Planets on the piano, using a piano in his newly built sound-proofed room in the music wing at St Paul’s Girls School, as well as the piano at home in Thaxted. The piece was composed in a version for four hands, two pianos and was scored by two of his colleagues at St Paul’s, Vally Lasker and Nora Day, who acted as amanuenses. The help of colleagues was necessary due to neuritis pain which Holst frequently suffered in his right hand. On this score Holst would mark indications of instrumentation in red ink and his amanuenses worked from this to produce the full orchestral score. The exception to this version was the last movement, Neptune, as Holst considered the piano to be unsuitable as it was not mysterious enough for the distant planet. Instead it was scored for a single organ, but the orchestral version has the addition of an offstage choir of women’s voices. As it was being composed, Vally Lasker and Nora Day played the two piano version to Holst, movement by movement. They continued to play this version in concerts and rehearsals in various parts of the country, and also to visiting conductors, including Adrian Boult. The piece was originally entitled Seven Pieces for Large Orchestra, probably inspired by Schoenberg’s Five Orchestral Pieces, which Holst had attended a performance of in January 1914. However, by the time of the first public performance in 1919 it had been renamed The Planets. When Holst started composing the suite in 1914, the movements appeared not quite in their final sequence. Begun in May 1914, shortly before the outbreak of World War I, Mars was the first movement to be written and is frequently seen as Holst’s critique of war. This was followed by Venus and Jupiter. Saturn, Uranus and Neptune were all composed in 1915 and Mercury was completed in 1916. The final suite comprised seven movements, each named after a planet and its corresponding astrological character: i. Mars, the Bringer of War (1914) ii. Venus, the Bringer of Peace (1914) iii. Mercury, the Winged Messenger (1916) iv. Jupiter, the Bringer of Jollity (1914) v. Saturn, the Bringer of Old Age (1915) vi. Uranus, the Magician (1915) vii. Neptune, the Mystic (1915) The orchestral score was created after the two piano version by Holst, his amanuenses Vally Lasker, Nora Day and one of his St Paul’s pupils, Jane Joseph, who was the main amanuensis for the orchestral score of Neptune. It was in this form that that The Planets became enormously popular, yet the work was not heard in a complete public performance until some years after it was completed. Holst had tried to enlist at the outbreak of the First World War, but was rejected as unfit for military service due to his health problems. However, we wanted to contribute to the war effort and so volunteered to teach music to the troops under the direction of the YMCA. In 1918, just as the war neared its end, he was posted to Salonika in Northern Greece to assume the post of Musical Organiser, helping to organise music activities in military training camps and hospitals. Morley College and St Paul’s Girls’ School both offered him a year’s leave of absence, but one obstacle remained – his name. The YMCA felt that his surname ‘von Holst’ was far too Germanic to be acceptable in such a role, so a prerequisite of him taking up the post was a change of name. He formally changed it by deed poll to the less inflammatory ‘Holst’. Holst was given a spectacular send-off when his friend, fellow composer, Balfour Gardiner, organised a private performance of The Planets as a farewell gift. The orchestral premiere of The Planets suite was held at short notice on 29 September 1918 during the last few weeks of World War I, in the Queen’s Hall, London. Conducted at Holst’s request by Adrian Boult, it was a private performance by the Queen’s Hall Orchestra, organised by Balfour Gardiner as a farewell to Holst, before he left England for Salonika to teach music to the troops as part of the war effort. It was hastily rehearsed – it is said that the musicians only saw the complicated music two hours before the performance and the choir for Neptune was recruited from pupils at St Paul’s Girls’ School, where Holst taught. A comparatively intimate affair, it was attended by around 250 invited associates, including conductor Sir Henry Wood and most of the professional musicians in London. Nevertheless, Holst regarded this very first performance as the public premiere, inscribing Boult’s copy of the score, ‘This copy is the property of Adrian Boult who first caused the planets to shine in public and thereby earned the gratitude of Gustav Holst’. Although there were three further performances between February 1919 and October 1920, they were all incomplete. At a public concert in London on 27 February 1919 under the auspices of the Royal Philharmonic Society and conducted by Boult, five of the seven movements were played. The decision not to play all the movements was made by Boult, who felt that introducing something so new to the public would be more than they could take in. Holst then conducted Venus, Mercury and Jupiter at a Queen’s Hall symphony concert on 22 November 1919 and there was another incomplete performance in Birmingham on 10 October 1920, where five movements were played. The first complete public performance was finally given in London at the Queen’s Hall by the London Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Albert Coates – this was the first time that Neptune had been heard in a public performance, as all the other movements had been given earlier public hearings. Holst returned to England in June 1919 and resumed his teaching and composing. In addition to his existing wok he accepted a lectureship in composition at the University of Reading and joined his great friend Vaughan Williams in teaching composition at their alma mater the Royal College of Music. Boosted by the international popularity of The Planets, Holst, by now in his forties, suddenly found himself in demand and becoming increasingly famous. The strain caused by the demand on him became too great, and in 1924 he cancelled all professional engagements on doctor’s orders and retreated to Thaxted. In 1925 he resumed his work at St Paul’s, where he continued to pioneer music education for women, but he did not return to any of his other posts. Holst continued to write and teach music; his productivity as a composer almost immediately benefiting once he was released from his other work. His works from this period include the Choral Symphony to words by Keats, a short Shakespearean opera At the Boar’s Head, an orchestral piece called Egdon Heath inspired by Thomas Hardy’s Wessex and Choral Fantasia. However, Holst’s health deteriorated in the last years of his life and he died in 1934 at the age of 59 of heart failure, following an operation on a duodenal ulcer. Vaughan Williams conducted music by Holst and himself at the funeral and Holst’s ashes were then interred at Chichester Cathedral. Holst Victorian House, Cheltenham, celebrates the life and works of Gustav Holst, composer of The Planets. Built in 1832, Holst was born in the house in 1874 and lived there until 1882. Step inside to see the piano Holst used to compose The Planets, find out how he developed into a world-class composer and experience what life was life for his modest middle-class family through Victorian rooms. The Holst Discovery Space houses the Holst archive, which contains over 3,000 objects and original manuscripts. For more information visit: https://holstvictorianhouse.org.uk Books related to this article


--- [Gustav Holst - Wikidata] ---
Gustav Holst (Q200867) Appearance British composer (1874–1934) - Gustav Theodore Holst - Gustavus Theodore von Holst | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Gustav Holst | British composer (1874–1934) | | Statements 2 references 3 references 12 April 1927Gregorian 0 references Gustavus Theodore von Holst (English) 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 1 reference 20 December 2022 21 September 1874Gregorian 12 references 27 April 2014 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Theodore Holst Gustav Theodore Holst Gustav Theodore Holst 25 May 1934 12 references 27 April 2014 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Holst 9 October 2017 Gustav Theodore Holst Gustav Theodore Holst Gustav Theodore Holst 1 reference Gustav Holst 1 reference Gustav Holst 0 references Identifiers 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 2 references 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 October 2012 24 August 2018 1 reference 1 reference 25 April 2016 1 reference 10 September 2022 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference Gustav Theodor Holst aka Von Holst (21 Sep 1874 - certain 25 May 1934) 0 references Sitelinks Wikipedia(56 entries) - arwiki غوستاف هولست - arzwiki جوستاف هولست - astwiki Gustav Holst - bgwiki Густав Холст - bxrwiki Густав Холст - cawiki Gustav Holst - cswiki Gustav Holst - cywiki Gustav Holst - dawiki Gustav Holst - dewiki Gustav Holst - elwiki Γκούσταβ Χολστ - enwiki Gustav Holst - eowiki Gustav Holst - eswiki Gustav Holst - etwiki Gustav Holst - euwiki Gustav Holst - fawiki گوستاو هولست - fiwiki Gustav Holst - frwiki Gustav Holst - gawiki Gustav Theodore Holst - glwiki Gustav Holst - hewiki גוסטב הולסט - hrwiki Gustav Holst - huwiki Gustav Holst - hywiki Գուստավ Թեոդոր Հոլսթ - idwiki Gustav Holst - iowiki Gustav Holst - iswiki Gustav Holst - itwiki Gustav Holst - jawiki グスターヴ・ホルスト - kaawiki Gustav Holst - kowiki 구스타브 홀스트 - lawiki Gustavus Holst - lbwiki Gustav Holst - ltwiki Gustav Holst - lvwiki Gustavs Holsts - mgwiki Gustav Holst - nlwiki Gustav Holst - nnwiki Gustav Holst - nowiki Gustav Holst - pawiki ਗੁਸਤਾਵ ਹੋਲ੍ਸਟ - plwiki Gustav Holst - ptwiki Gustav Holst - ruwiki Холст, Густав - simplewiki Gustav Holst - slwiki Gustav Holst - srwiki Густав Холст - svwiki Gustav Holst - thwiki กุสตาฟ โฮลส์ - trwiki Gustav Holst - ukwiki Густав Голст - viwiki Gustav Holst - warwiki Gustav Holst - wuuwiki 古斯塔夫·霍尔斯特 - zh_yuewiki 古斯塔夫·霍爾斯特 - zhwiki 古斯塔夫·霍尔斯特 Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(3 entries) - bgwikiquote Густав Холст - enwikiquote Gustav Holst - itwikiquote Gustav Holst Wikisource(1 entry) - enwikisource Author:Gustav Holst


--- [Gustav Holst _ AcademiaLab] ---
Gustav Holst Gustav Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, September 21, 1874 – London, May 25, 1934) was a composer, arranger and British professor. He is primarily known for his orchestral suite The Planets, for although he composed many other works in a variety of genres, none achieved comparable success. His distinctive compositional style was the product of many influences, with Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss being the most crucial early in his development. Subsequent inspiration from the English folk song revival of the early 20th century and the example of emerging modern composers such as Maurice Ravel led to Holst to develop and refine an individual style. There were professional musicians in the previous three generations of Holst's family, and it was clear from his early years that he would follow the same vocation. Although he hoped to become a pianist, neuritis in his right arm prevented him from doing so. Despite his father's reservations, he pursued a career as a composer, for which he began studying at the Royal College of Music with Charles Villiers Stanford. Unable to support himself with his compositions, he played the trombone professionally, and later became a teacher, an excellent one, according to his colleague Ralph Vaughan Williams. Among other teaching activities, he established a strong tradition of performance at Morley College, where he served as musical director from 1907 to 1924, and pioneered musical education for women at St Paul's Girls' School. School, where he taught from 1905 until his death in 1934. He was also the founder of a series of Whitsun music festivals, which ran from 1916 for the rest of his life. Holst's works were frequently performed in the early years of the 20th century, but not until international success of The Planets in the years immediately following the First World War who became a well-known figure. A shy man, he did not appreciate this fame, and preferred to be left alone to compose and teach. In his later years, his personal and uncompromising songwriting style surprised many music lovers as too austere, and his brief popularity waned. However, he was an important influence on several younger English composers, including Edmund Rubbra, Michael Tippett and Benjamin Britten. Aside from The Planets and a few other works, his music generally fell into oblivion until the 1980s, when recordings were made of much of his musical output. Biography Family history Gustavus Theodore von Holst was born in Cheltenham (Gloucestershire) and was the eldest of two children of Adolph von Holst, a professional musician, and his wife, Clara Cox, née Lediard. She was of mostly British descent, the daughter of a respected Cirencester lawyer; the Holst side of the family was of mixed Swedish, Latvian and German ancestry, with at least one professional musician in each of the previous three generations. One of his great-grandfathers, Matthias Holst, born in Riga (Russian Empire, present-day Latvia), was of German origin. He served as a composer and harp teacher at the Russian Imperial Court in St. Petersburg. Matthias's son Gustavus, who moved to England with his parents as a child in 1802, was a composer of salon music and a well-known harp teacher. He appropriated the aristocratic prefix "von" and added it to the surname in the hope of gaining greater prestige and attracting students. Gustav's father, Adolph von Holst, became organist and choirmaster at All Saints' Church, Cheltenham; He also taught and gave piano recitals. His wife, Clara, a former student, was a talented singer and pianist. They had two children; Gustav's younger brother, Emil Gottfried, became known as Ernest Cossart, a successful actor in the West End, New York and Hollywood. Clara died in February 1882 and the family moved to another house in Cheltenham., where Adolph recruited his sister Nina to help raise the children. Gustav recognized his devotion to the family and dedicated several of his early compositions to him. In 1885 Adolph married Mary Thorley Stone, another of his students. They had two children, Matthias (known as "Max") and Evelyn ("Thorley"). Mary von Holst was absorbed in theosophy and was not very interested in domestic affairs. Adolph's four children were subject to what one biographer called "benign neglect," and Gustav in particular "was not overburdened with attention or understanding, with weak eyesight and weak chest, both neglected; he was & # 34; miserable and scared & # 34; ». Childhood and youth Holst learned to play the piano and violin; He enjoyed the former, but hated the latter. At the age of twelve he took up the trombone at Adolph's suggestion, thinking that playing a brass instrument might improve his asthma. He was educated at Cheltenham Grammar School between 1886 and 1891.. He began composing around 1886; Inspired by Thomas Macaulay's poem Horatius, he began an ambitious setting of the work for choir and orchestra, but soon abandoned it. His early compositions included piano pieces, organ volunteers, songs, hymns and a symphony (from 1892). His main influences at this stage were Felix Mendelssohn, Frédéric Chopin, Edvard Grieg and especially Arthur Sullivan. Adolph tried to steer his son away from composition, hoping he would have a career as a pianist. Holst was hypersensitive and sad. His eyes were weak, but no one realized that he needed to wear glasses. Holst's health played a decisive role in his musical future; He had never been strong and in addition to asthma and poor eyesight he suffered from neuritis, which made it difficult for him to play the piano. He said that the affected arm was "like a jelly overloaded with electricity." After Gustav left school in 1891, Adolph paid for him to spend four months at Oxford studying counterpoint with George Frederick Sims, organist at Merton College. Upon his return, he obtained his first professional appointment, at the age of seventeen, as organist and choir director at Wyck Rissington (Gloucestershire). The position brought with it the direction of the Bourton-on-the-Water Choral Society, which offered no additional remuneration, but gave him valuable experience which allowed him to hone his conducting skills. In November 1891, he gave what was perhaps his first public performance as a pianist; He and his father performed Johannes Brahms's Hungarian Dances at a concert in Cheltenham. The event program gives his name as "Gustav" instead of "Gustavus"; he was called by the shorter version from his early years. Royal College of Music In 1892, Holst wrote the music for an operetta in the style of Gilbert and Sullivan, Lansdown Castle or The Sorcerer of Tewkesbury. The piece was performed at Cheltenham Corn Exchange in February 1893; was well received and its success encouraged him to persevere in composition. He applied for a scholarship to the Royal College of Music (RCM), London, but that year's composition scholarship was won by Samuel Coleridge-Taylor. Holst was accepted as student without a scholarship and Adolph borrowed £100 to cover his first year's expenses. He left Cheltenham for London in May 1893. Money was scarce and, partly from frugality and partly from his own inclination, he became vegetarian and teetotaler. Two years later, he finally obtained a scholarship, which alleviated his financial difficulties somewhat, but he maintained his austere personal regimen. Holst's teachers at the RCM were Frederick Sharpe (piano), William Stephenson Hoyte (organ), George Case (trombone), Georges Jacobi (instrumentation) and the school's director, Hubert Parry (history). After preliminary lessons with William Smith Rockstro and Frederick Bridge, Holst was granted his wish to study composition with Charles Villiers Stanford. To support himself during his studies, he played the trombone professionally, at seaside resorts in summer and in London theaters in winter. His daughter and biographer, Imogen, records that from his fees as a performer "he was able to pay for the needs of the life: food and lodging, manuscript paper and tickets to stand at the Covent Garden Opera House on Wagner evenings. 39;s Hall. Like many musicians of his generation, he was attracted to the work of Richard Wagner. He had rejected the music of Twilight of the Gods when he heard it at Covent Garden in 1892, but encouraged by his friend and fellow student Fritz Hart, he persevered and quickly became a passionate Wagnerian. Wagner He supplanted Sullivan as the main influence on his music and for a time, as Imogen said, "ill-assimilated strands of Tristan were inserted into almost every page of his own songs and offerings." Stanford admired some of Sullivan's works. Wagner and in his early years had been influenced by him, but Holst's sub-Wagnerian compositions met with his disapproval: "It won't do, boy; It won't do." Holst respected Stanford, describing him to a fellow student, Herbert Howells, as "the only man who could get any of us out of a technical jam," but he found that his fellow students, rather than The members of the teaching staff were the ones who most influenced its development. In 1895, shortly after celebrating his twenty-first birthday, Holst met Ralph Vaughan Williams, who became a lifelong friend and had more influence on his music than any other person. Stanford emphasized the need for Holst to his students were self-critical, but Holst and Vaughan Williams became each other's main critics; each would play his latest composition for the other while he was still working on it. Vaughan Williams later observed: "What one really learns from an academy or college is not so much from one's official teachers as from one's fellow students... [we discuss] every subject under the sun from the lowest grade of the double bassoon to the philosophy of Judas the Obscure». In 1949 he wrote of their relationship: "Holst declared that his music was influenced by that of his friend: the opposite is certainly true." The year 1895 was also Henry Purcell's bicentenary, and was marked by several performances, including Stanford's direction of Dido and Aeneas at the Lyceum Theatre; the play deeply impressed Holst, who more than twenty years later confessed to a friend that his search for "the (or a) musical language of the English language" had been inspired "unconsciously" by "listening to the recitations in Dido of Purcell. Another early influence was William Morris. In the words of Vaughan Williams, “it was then that Holst discovered the feeling of unity with his fellow men that later made him a great teacher. A sense of camaraderie rather than political conviction led him, while still a student, to join the Socialist League which met at Kelmscott House in Hammersmith." At Kelmscott House, Morris's home, Holst attended lectures by his host and George Bernard Shaw. His own socialism was moderate in nature, but he enjoyed the club because of its good company and his admiration for Morris as a man. His ideals were influenced by Morris's, but had a different emphasis. Morris had written: "I do not want art for a few, nor education for a few, nor freedom for a few. I want all people to be educated according to their ability, not according to the amount of money their parents may have." Holst said: ""Aristocracy in art": art is not for "Not everyone, but only for a select few, but the only way to find those few is to bring art to everyone, so artists have a kind of Masonic sign with which they recognize themselves among the crowd." He was invited to direct the Hammersmith Socialist Choir, teaching them madrigals by Thomas Morley, choruses by Purcell and works by Mozart, Wagner and his own. One of his choristers was (Emily) Isobel Harrison (1876-1969), a beautiful soprano two years his junior, of which he fell in love with. She was initially unimpressed by him, but he eventually won her over and they became engaged, although with no immediate prospects of marriage given Holst's meager income. Professional musician In 1898, the RCM offered Holst a scholarship for another year, but he believed that he had learned all he could there and that it was time, as he put it, to "learn by doing." Some of his compositions were published and performed; The previous year The Times had praised his song "Light Leaves Whisper", "a moderately elaborate composition in six parts, treated with much expression and poetic feeling." Despite occasional successes, he discovered that "man cannot live by composition alone"; he held positions as organist in several London churches and continued playing trombone in theater orchestras. In 1898 he was appointed first trombonist and répétiteur of the Carl Rosa Opera Company and toured with the Royal Scottish National Orchestra. Although more competent than virtuoso, he earned the praise of conductor Hans Richter, for whom he played at Covent Garden. His salary was barely enough to live on, and he supplemented this by playing in a popular orchestra called the White Viennese Band, conducted by Stanislas Wurm. Holst enjoyed performing for Wurm and learned a lot from him about the rubato of the players. However, wishing to dedicate his time to composition, he discovered that the need to play for the Wurm orchestra Wurm or any other light orchestra was "a perverse and disgusting waste of time." Vaughan Williams did not entirely agree with his friend on this; He admitted that some of the music was “rubbish,” but thought it had nonetheless been useful to Holst: “To begin with, the worst a trombonist has to endure is nothing compared to what a church organist has to endure; and secondly, Holst is above all an orchestral composer, and that sure touch which distinguishes his orchestral writing is largely due to the fact that he has been an orchestral player; "He has learned the art from it, both technically and substantially, not secondhand from textbooks and models, but from real live experience." With a modest income assured, Holst was able to marry Isobel; the ceremony was at Fulham Registry Office on 22 June 1901. Their marriage lasted until her death; there was a girl, Imogen, born in 1907. In 1902, Dan Godfrey and the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra premiered Holst's symphony The Cotswolds (Op. 8), the slow movement of which is a lament by William Morris., who had died in October 1896, three years before Holst began working on the piece. In 1903 Adolph von Holst died, leaving a small legacy. Gustav and his wife decided, as Imogen later said, that "since they were always in a pinch, the only thing they could do was spend it all at once on a holiday in Germany." Composer and teacher While in Germany, Holst reevaluated his professional life and in 1903 decided to abandon orchestral performance to concentrate on composition. His income as a composer was too low to live on and two years later he accepted the offer of a teaching position in James Allen's Girls' School (Dulwich), which he held until 1921. He also taught at Passmore Edwards Settlement, where among other firsts he premiered in Britain two cantatas by Johann Sebastian Bach. The two teaching positions for which he is probably best known were that of director of music at St Paul's Girls' School (Hammersmith), from 1905 until his death, and at Morley College from 1907 to 1924. Vaughan Williams wrote of the first placement: 'Here he removed the childish sentimentality that schoolgirls were supposed to appreciate and replaced it with Bach and Vittoria; a splendid context for immature minds." Several of Holst's students at St Paul's went on to distinguished careers, including the soprano Joan Cross and the oboist and English horn player Helen Gaskell. On Holst's impact on Morley College, Vaughan Williams wrote: “[A] bad tradition had to be broken. The results were at first discouraging, but soon a new spirit appeared and the music of Morley College, together with its 'Pentecost Festival' branch... became a force to be reckoned with. After Holst's appointment, Morley College had not treated music very seriously (the "bad tradition" of Vaughan Williams) and at first its demanding demands scared away many students. He persevered and gradually formed a class of dedicated music lovers. According to the composer Edmund Rubbra, who studied with him in the early 1920s, Holst was "a teacher who often came to lessons armed, not with the learning of Prout and Stainer, but with a score in miniature of Petrushka or the then recently published Mass in G minor by Vaughan Williams. He never sought to impose his own ideas on his composition students. Rubbra recalled that he would guess a student's difficulties and gently guide him to find the solution for himself. 'I don't remember Holst adding a single note of his own to anything I wrote, but he would suggest (if I agreed!) that, given such and such a sentence, the next one would be better if it took such and such another; If he did not see it, he would not press the point... he frequently removed it [because of] his abhorrence of the non-essential.' As a composer, he was often inspired by literature. He arranged the poetry of Thomas Hardy and Robert Bridges and, a particular influence, Walt Whitman, whose texts he used in "Dirge for Two Veterans" and The Mystic Trumpeter (1904). He wrote an orchestral Walt Whitman Overture in 1899. While touring with Carl Rosa's company, Holst had read some of Max Müller's books, which inspired a great interest in Sanskrit texts., particularly the hymns of the Rigveda. He found the existing English versions of the texts unconvincing and decided to make his own translations, despite his lack of skills as a linguist. He enrolled in 1909 at University College London to study the language. Imogen commented on his translations: 'He was not a poet and there are times when his verses seem naive. But they never sound vague or careless, because he had set himself the task of finding words that were "clear and dignified." and that "would take the listener to another world." His arrangements of translations of Sanskrit texts included Sita (1899-1906), an opera in three acts based on an episode of the Ramayana (in which he eventually entered an English opera competition organized by the Milan music publisher Tito Ricordi); Savitri (1908), a chamber opera based in a story from the Mahabharata; four groups of Hymns from the Rig Veda (1908-1914); and two texts originally by Kalidasa: Two Eastern Pictures (1909-1910) and The Cloud Messenger (1913). Towards the end of the 19th century, British musical circles had experienced a new interest in national folk music. Some composers, such as Sullivan and Edward Elgar, remained indifferent, but Parry, Stanford, Stainer and Alexander Mackenzie were founding members of the Folk-Song Society. Parry believed that by recovering English folk song, English composers would find an authentic national voice; He commented, "In true folk songs there is no farce, no disguised gloss, no vulgarity." Vaughan Williams was an early and enthusiastic convert to this cause and toured the English countryside collecting and annotating folk songs. These had an influence on Holst. Although he was not as passionate about the subject as his friend, he incorporated a number of folk tunes into his own compositions and made several arrangements of folk songs collected by others. The Somerset Rhapsody (1906-1907), he wrote it at the suggestion of folk song collector Cecil Sharp and made use of melodies that Sharp had written down. Holst described his performance at Queen's Hall in 1910 as "my first real success." A few years later, he became enthusiastic about another musical renaissance: the rediscovery of English madrigal composers. Thomas Weelkes was his favorite of all the Tudor composers, but Byrd also meant a lot to him. Holst was a great hiker. He walked extensively through England, Italy, France and Algeria. In 1908 he traveled to the latter country on medical advice as a treatment for the asthma and depression he suffered after his opera Sita did not win the Ricordi prize. This trip inspired the suite Beni Mora, which incorporated music he heard on the streets of the country. Vaughan Williams wrote of this exotic work, "if it had been played in Paris instead of London, it would have given its composer a European reputation, and played in Italy would probably have caused a mutiny. Prewar In June 1911, Holst and his Morley College students gave the first performance since the 17th century of The Fairy Queen by Purcell. The complete score had been lost shortly after the composer's death in 1695 and had only recently been found. Twenty-eight Morley students copied the complete vocal and orchestral parts. There were 1,500 pages of music and it took students almost eighteen months to copy them in their spare time. A concert of the work was given at The Old Vic, preceded by an introductory talk by Vaughan Williams. The Times praised Holst and his cast for "a very interesting and artistic interpretation of this very important work." After this success, Holst was disappointed the following year by the lukewarm reception of his choral work The Cloud Messenger. He traveled again, accepting an invitation from H. Balfour Gardiner to join him and brothers Clifford and Arnold Bax in Spain. During this vacation, Clifford Bax introduced Holst to astrology, an interest that later inspired his suite The planets. Holst cast the horoscopes of his friends for the rest of his life and referred to astrology as his "favorite vice." In 1913, St Paul's Girls' School opened a new music wing and Holst composed St Paul's Suite for the occasion. The new building contained a lavishly equipped, soundproof room where he could work undisturbed. Holst and his family moved to a house in Brook Green, very close to the school. For the previous six years they had lived in a nice house overlooking the Thames in Barnes, but the often misty river air affected his breathing. Holst and his wife bought a cottage in Thaxted, Essex, surrounded by medieval buildings. and ample walking opportunities, for use at weekends and during school holidays. In 1917 they moved to a house in the center of town, where they remained until 1925. In Thaxted, he became friends with the Reverend Conrad Noel, known as the "Red Vicar", who supported the Independent Labor Party and championed many causes unpopular with conservative opinion. Noel also encouraged the revival of folk dancing and processions as part of church ceremonies, innovations that caused controversy among traditionally minded parishioners. Holst became an organist and occasional choir director at the local parish church, as well as developing an interest in ringing bells. He also began an annual music festival at Whitsuntide in 1916, at which students from Morley College and St Paul's Girls' School performed together with local participants. Holst's carol a cappela, “This Have I Done For My True Love,” was dedicated to Noel in recognition of his interest in the ancient origins of religion (the composer always referred to the work as "The Dancing Day"). This received its first performance during the Third Whitsun Festival in Thaxted in May 1918. During this festival, Noel, who would become a strong supporter of the October Revolution in Russia demanded in a Saturday message during the service that there should be greater political commitment from those who participated in church activities; He offended with his claim that several of Holst's students (implicitly those from St Paul's Girls' School) were simply "camp followers." Holst, anxious to protect his students from becoming involved in Ecclesiastical conflicts moved the Whitsun Festival to Dulwich, although he himself continued to help with the Thaxted choir and play the church organ on occasion. First World War At the outbreak of World War I, Holst attempted to enlist, but was rejected as unfit for military service, and became frustrated at not being able to contribute to the war effort. His wife became a volunteer ambulance driver; Vaughan Williams saw active service in France, as did Holst's brother Emil; Holst's friends, the composers George Butterworth and Cecil Coles, were killed in battle, and he, for his part, continued teaching and composing; He worked on The Planets and prepared his chamber opera Savitri for performance, which was first performed in December 1916 by students from the London School of Operaat the Wellington Hall in St John's Wood. At the time it did not attract the attention of the major newspapers, although when it was performed professionally five years later, it was received as "a perfect little masterpiece". In 1917 he wrote The Hymn of Jesus for choir and orchestra, a work that remained unpublished until after the war. In 1918, as the war neared its end, he finally had the prospect of a job that offered him the opportunity to serve: the music section of the education department of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) needed volunteers to work with British troops stationed in Europe awaiting demobilization. Morley College and St Paul's Girls' School offered him a one-year leave of absence, but one obstacle remained, as the YMCA believed his surname seemed too German to be acceptable in that role. He formally changed "von Holst" to "Holst" by public deed in September 1918. He was appointed musical organizer of the YMCA for the Middle East, based in Thessaloniki. Holst received a spectacular farewell. Conductor Adrian Boult recalled: 'Just before the Armistice, Gustav Holst burst into my office: 'Adrian, the YMCA is sending me to Thessaloniki very soon and Balfour Gardiner, God bless his heart, has given me a gift of farewell consisting of the Queen's Hall, with the full Queen's Hall Orchestra throughout Sunday morning. So we're going to do The Planets, and you have to direct.'” There was a burst of activity to get things ready on time. The St Paul's girls helped copy the orchestral parts and the Morley women and St Paul's girls learned the choral part in the last movement. The performance was given on September 29 before an invited audience that included Henry Wood and most of London's professional musicians. Five months later, when Holst was in Greece, Boult presented The Planets i> to the general public, in a concert in February 1919; Holst sent him a long letter full of suggestions, but failed to convince him that the suite should be played in its entirety. The conductor believed that about half an hour of such radically new music was all the audience could absorb at the first hearing, and on that occasion he performed only five of the seven movements. Holst enjoyed his time in Thessaloniki, from where he was able to visit Athens, which impressed him enormously. His musical duties were very varied, even forcing him on occasion to play the violin in the local orchestra: "he was very fun, but I'm afraid I wasn't much use." He returned to England in June 1919. Postwar Upon his return from Greece, he resumed his teaching and composition. In addition to his existing work, he accepted a professorship in composition at the University of Reading and joined Vaughan Williams to teach composition at his alma mater, the RCM. Inspired by Adrian Boult's conducting classes at the RCM, Holst sought to pioneer women's musical education by proposing the High Mistress of St Paul's Girls' School that should invite Boult to teach at the school: "It would be glorious if SPGS turned out to have the only female conductors in the world!" In her soundproofed room at SPGS she composed Ode to Death, an arrangement of a poem by Whitman, which according to Vaughan Williams is considered by many to be Holst's most beautiful choral work. Holst, in his forties, suddenly found himself in demand. The New York Philharmonic Orchestra and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra competed to be the first to perform The Planets in the United States. The success of that work was followed in 1920 by an enthusiastic reception of The Hymn of Jesus, described in The Observer as "one of the most brilliant and sincere pieces of choral and orchestral expression that has been heard for some years." The Times called it "without doubt the most strikingly original choral work that has been produced in this country for many years." To his surprise and dismay, Holst was becoming famous. Celebrity was something completely foreign to his nature. As music scholar Byron Adams says, "he struggled for the rest of his life to free himself from the web of flashy publicity, public incomprehension, and professional envy woven around him by this unsought success." honors and awards that were offered to him and he refused to grant interviews or sign autographs. Holst's comic opera The Perfect Fool (1923) was widely seen as a satire of Parsifal, although he steadfastly denied this. The piece, with Maggie Teyte in the title soprano role and Eugene Aynsley Goossens conducting, was enthusiastically received at its premiere at the Royal Opera House. At a concert in Reading in 1923, Holst slipped and fell, sustaining a concussion. He seemed to be making a good recovery and was willing to accept an invitation to the United States to lecture and conduct at the University of Michigan. After his return, he found himself increasingly required to conduct, prepare his earlier works for publication and, as before, to teach. The strain caused by these demands on him was too great; On doctor's orders, he canceled all professional commitments during 1924 and retired to Thaxted. In 1925 he resumed work on St Paul's Girls' School, but he did not return to any of his other positions. Recent years Holst's productivity as a composer benefited almost immediately from his release from other works. His works from this period include the Choral Symphony with text by John Keats (a Second Choral Symphony with text by George Meredith exists only in fragments). He followed a short Shakespeare opera, At the Boar's Head. None of them had the immediate popular appeal of A Moorside Suite for brass band from 1928. In 1927, the New York Symphony Orchestra commissioned him to write a symphony. Instead, he wrote the orchestral piece Egdon Heath, inspired by Thomas Hardy's Wessex. It was first performed in February 1928, a month after Hardy's death, at a memorial concert. By then, the public's brief enthusiasm for all things Holst was fading and the piece was not well received in New York. Olin Downes in The New York Times opined that "the new score seemed long and mediocre." The day after the American performance, Holst conducted the City of Birmingham Orchestra in the British premiere. The Times acknowledged the bleakness of the play, but admitted that it chimed with Hardy's bleak worldview: "Egdon Heath is not likely to be popular, but it says what it says." the composer means, whether we like it or not, and truth is an aspect of duty." Holst had been distressed by hostile reviews of some of his early works, but was indifferent to the critical opinion of Egdon Heath. , which he considered, in Adams' words, his "most perfectly realized composition." Towards the end of his life, he wrote Choral Fantasy (1930) and was commissioned by the BBC to write a piece for military band; The prelude and resulting scherzo from Hammersmith were a tribute to the place where he had spent most of her life. Composer and critic Colin Matthews considers the work "as uncompromising in its way as Egdon Heath, discovering, in the words of Imogen Holst, "in the midst of an overcrowded London... the same tranquility that he had found in the solitude of Egdon Heath." The work was premiered in a concert that also featured the London premiere of William Walton's Belshazzar's Feast, so which was somewhat overshadowed. Holst wrote a score for a British film, The Bells (1931), and was amused by being recruited as an extra in a crowd scene. Both the film and the score are lost. He wrote a "jazz band piece" that Imogen later arranged for orchestra as Capriccio. Having composed operas throughout his life with varying success, Holst found for his last opera, The Wandering Scholar, what Matthews calls "the right medium for his oblique sense of humor, writing with economy and directness." Harvard University offered him a professorship during the first six months of 1932. Arriving through New York, he was pleased to be reunited with his brother, Emil, whose acting career under the name Ernest Cossart had led him brought to Broadway; but Holst was dismayed by the continued attentions of press photographers and interviewers. He enjoyed his time at Harvard, but fell ill while there: a duodenal ulcer laid him low for a few weeks. He returned to England, briefly accompanied by his brother, to holiday together in the Cotswolds. His health worsened and he retreated further from musical pursuits. One of his last efforts was to guide the young performers of the St Paul's Girls' orchestra. School through one of his final compositions, Brook Green Suite, in March 1934. Holst died in London on May 25, 1934, at the age of 59, of heart failure following an ulcer operation. His ashes were buried in Chichester Cathedral in Sussex, near the monument to Thomas Weelkes, his favorite Tudor composer. Bishop George Bell gave the memorial oration at the funeral and Vaughan Williams conducted Holst's music and his own. Work Style Holst's absorption of popular song, not only in the melodic sense, but in terms of its simplicity and economy of expression, helped develop a style that many of his contemporaries, even admirers, found austere and cerebral. This is contrary to the popular identification of Holst with The Planets, which Matthews believes has masked his status as a composer of genuine originality. Against accusations of coldness in the music, Imogen cites the characteristics "sweeping modal melodies that move reassuringly above the steps of a descending bass" by his father, while Michael Kennedy points to Humbert Wolfe's twelve arrangements from 1929 and twelve Welsh folk songs for unaccompanied choir from 1930 -1931, as works of true warmth. Many of the characteristics he employed (unconventional time signatures, ascending and descending scales, ostinato, bitonality and occasional polytonality) distinguished him from other English composers. Vaughan Williams commented that Holst always said in his music what he wanted to say, in a direct and concise way; "He was not afraid to be obvious when the occasion demanded it, nor did he hesitate to be remote when remoteness expressed his purpose." Kennedy has surmised that Holst's economy of style was partly a product of the composer's poor health: "the The effort of writing it forced an artistic economy that some believed was taken too far. However, as an experienced instrumentalist and orchestra member, he understood music from the point of view of his performers and made sure that, however challenging According to his student Jane Joseph, Holst fostered in the performance "a spirit of practical camaraderie... no one could know better than he the boredom possible for a professional musician and the music that made boredom impossible." » Compositions First works Although Holst wrote a large number of works, particularly songs, during his student days and early adulthood, almost everything he wrote before 1904 he later classified as derivative "early horrors." However, the composer and critic Colin Matthews recognizes even in these apprentice works an "instinctive orchestral style." Of the few pieces from this period that demonstrate some originality, Matthews points out the String Trio in G minor 1894 (not performed until 1974) as the first derivative work produced by the composer. Matthews and Imogen Holst each highlight the "Elegy" movement in The Cotswold Symphony (1899-1900) as one of the most accomplished apprentice works, and Imogen discerns glimpses of her father's true self in the Ballet Suite of 1899 and the Ave Maria of 1900. She and Matthews have claimed that Holst found his genuine voice in his setting of Whitman's verses, The Mystic Trumpeter (1904), which briefly anticipate the trumpet blasts that characterize "Mars" in The Planets. . In this work, Holst uses for the first time the technique of bitonality: the use of two tones simultaneously. Experimental years At the beginning of the 20th century, according to Matthews, it seemed that Holst could follow Arnold Schönberg into late Romanticism. Instead, as Holst later acknowledged, his encounter with Purcell's Dido and Aeneas prompted him to search for a "musical idiom of the English language"; the revival of folk song became a catalyst. additional for Holst to seek inspiration from other sources during approximately the first decade of the new century. Indian period Holst's interest in Hindu mythology, shared by many of his contemporaries, first became musically evident in the opera Sita (1901-1906). During the long gestation of the opera, he worked on other Indian-themed pieces. These included Maya (1901) for violin and piano, considered by the composer and writer Raymond Head as "an insipid parlor piece whose musical language comes dangerously close to Stephen Adams." Then, through by Vaughan Williams, Holst discovered and became an admirer of the music of Maurice Ravel, whom he considered a "model of purity" on the level of Joseph Haydn, another composer whom he greatly appreciated. The combined influence of Ravel, Hindu spiritualism and English folk melodies allowed him to move beyond the once all-consuming influences of Wagner and Richard Strauss and forge his own style. Imogen Holst has acknowledged Holst's own suggestion (written to Vaughan Williams): "[O]ne should follow Wagner until he leads you to new things." She points out that although much of her grand opera, Sita, is “good old Wagnerian screams”… towards the end there is a change in the music and the beautifully quiet phrases of the hidden choir representing the Voice of the Earth are in Holst's own language. According to Rubbra, the 1911 publication of Holst's Rig Veda Hymns was a milestone in the composer's development: "Prior to this, Holst's music had, in fact, shown the clarity of expression which has always been his characteristic, but harmonically there was little to mark him out as an important figure in modern music. Dickinson describes these Vedic settings as pictorial rather than religious; Although the quality is variable, the sacred texts clearly "touched vital springs in the composer's imagination." While Holst's Indian verse music maintained a generally Western character, in some of the Vedic settings he experimented with raga. Indian (scales). The chamber opera Savitri (1908) is written for three solo voices, a small hidden female choir, and an instrumental combination of two flutes, an English horn, and a double string quartet. The Music critic John Warrack comments on the "extraordinary expressive subtlety" with which Holst deploys his scarce forces: "... [T]he two unaccompanied vocal lines that open the work deftly convey the relationship between Death, which constantly advances to through the forest, and Savitri, her frightened responses fluttering around her, unable to escape its harmonious pull." Head describes the work as unique in its time for its compact intimacy and considers it Holst's most successful attempt to end the mastery of Wagnerian chromaticism in his music. Dickinson considers it a significant step, "not towards opera, but towards an idiomatic search for [Holst's] vision." From the texts of Kalidasa, Dickinson dismisses The Cloud Messenger (1910-1912) as an “accumulation of unconnected incidents, opportunistic dramatic episodes, and effusions of ecstasy” that illustrate the composer's creative confusion during that period; Two Eastern Pictures (1911), in Dickinson's opinion, provide "a more memorable final impression of Kalidasa." Folk song and other influences Holst's settings of Indian texts formed only a part of his compositional output in the period 1900 to 1914. A very significant factor in his musical development was the revival of English folk song, evident in the orchestral suite A Somerset Rhapsody (1906-1907), a work that was originally based on eleven popular song themes, and which was later reduced to four. When noting the work's kinship with Norfolk Rhapsody by Vaughan Williams, Dickinson comments that, with its firm overall structure, Holst's songwriting "rises beyond the level of... a selection of songs." Imogen acknowledges that her father's discovery of songs English popular songs "transformed his orchestral writing", just as the composition of A Somerset Rhapsody did much to banish the chromaticisms that had dominated his early compositions. In Two Songs Without Words from 1906, he demonstrated that he could create his own original music using popular idiom. A fantasy orchestral folk song Songs of the West, also written in 1906, was withdrawn by the composer and never published, although it emerged in the 1980s in the form of an arrangement by James Curnow for wind band. In the years before World War I, he composed in a variety of genres. Matthews considers the evocation of a North African village in the Beni Mora suite of 1908, the composer's most individual work to date; the third movement gives a preview of minimalism in its constant repetition of a four-bar theme. He wrote two suites for military band, in E♭ (1909) and F major (1911) respectively, the first of which became and remains a staple of the marching band. This piece, a highly original musical work and Substantial, it was a sign of departure from what Short describes as "the usual operatic transcriptions and selections that permeated the band's repertoire." Also in 1911 he wrote Hecuba's Lament, a setting from Gilbert Murray's translation of Euripides built on a seven-beat refrain designed, according to Dickinson, to represent Hecuba's defiance of divine wrath. In 1912, Holst composed two arrangements of psalms, in which he experimented with plainchant The same year saw the enduringly popular St Paul's Suite (a "gay, but retrograde" piece according to Dickinson) and the failure of his large-scale orchestral work Phantastes. Maximum peak The planets Holst conceived the idea for The Planets in 1913, partly as a result of his interest in astrology and also his determination, despite the failure of Phantastes, to produce a large-scale orchestral work. The chosen format may have been influenced by Schönberg's Five Pieces for Orchestra and shares some of the aesthetics, Matthews suggests, of the Nocturnes i> or La mer by Claude Debussy. He began composing The Planets in 1914; the movements did not appear at all in their final sequence; "Mars" was the one he wrote first, followed by "Venus" and "Jupiter." "Saturn", "Uranus" and "Neptune" he composed during 1915, and "Mercurio" was completed in 1916. Each planet is represented with a different character; Dickinson observes that "no planet borrows the color of another." In "Mars", a persistent and uneven rhythmic cell consisting of five beats, combined with trumpet blasts and harmonic dissonance provides battle music that, according to Short, is Unique in its expression of violence and sheer terror, "...Holst's intention is to portray the reality of war rather than glorify acts of heroism." In "Venus", he incorporated music from an abandoned vocal work, A Vigil of Pentecost, to provide the opening; The predominant mood within the movement is one of peaceful resignation and nostalgia. "Mercury" is dominated by irregular meters and rapid changes of theme, to represent the swift flight of the winged messenger. "Jupiter" is famous for its central melody, "Thaxted", in Dickinson's opinion "a fantastic relaxation in which many retain a far from furtive delight." Dickinson and other critics have denounced the later use of the tune in the patriotic anthem "I Vow to Thee, My Country", despite Holst's complete complicity. For "Saturn", he again used a previously composed vocal piece, Dirge and Hymeneal, as a basis for the movement, where the repeated chords represent the relentless approach of old age. "Uranus", which follows, has elements of Hector Berlioz's Symphony Fantastic and Paul Dukas's The Sorcerer's Apprentice, in its description of the magician who "disappears in a puff of smoke when the sonic impetus of the movement diminishes from fff to ppp in the space of a few bars." "Neptune," the final movement, concludes with a wordless female chorus that gradually recedes, an effect that Warrack compares to "unresolved timelessness."...never ends, since space does not end, but recedes into eternal silence." In addition to his concession with "I Vow to Thee, My Country", Holst insisted on the unity of the entire work and opposed to the representation of individual movements. However, Imogen wrote that the piece "had suffered from being quoted in fragments as background music." Maturity During and after the composition of The Planets he wrote or arranged numerous vocal and choral works, many of them for the wartime Whitsun festivals at Thaxted (1916-1918). They include the Six Choral Folksongs of 1916, based on West Country tunes, of which Dickinson considers "Swansea Town", with its "sophisticated tone", the most memorable. Holst downplayed that music as "a limited form of art" in which "gestures are almost inevitable"; composer Alan Gibbs, however, believes that Holst's set is at least equal to the Five English Folk Songs from 1913 by Vaughan Williams. His first major work after The Planets was Hymn of Jesus, completed in 1917. The words are from a Gnostic text, the apocryphal Acts of Saint John, in which used a translation from Greek that the composer himself prepared with the help of Clifford Bax and Jane Joseph. Head comments on the innovative nature of the work: "In one fell swoop, Holst had put Victorian and Edwardian sentimental oratorio aside, and created the precursor to the type of works that John Tavener, for example, would write in the 1970s." Matthews has written that its "ecstatic" quality is matched by English music "perhaps only withThe Vision of Saint Tippett's Augustine"; musical elements include plainchant, two choruses spaced apart to emphasize dialogue, dance episodes, and "explosive string dislocations." In Ode to Death (1918-1919), Matthews sees the calm, resigned mood as an "abrupt change of attitude" after the life-enhancing spirituality of Hymn of Jesus. Warrack refers to his distant tranquility; Imogen Holst believed that the work expressed her father's private attitude towards death. The piece has rarely been performed since its premiere in 1922, although the Composer Ernest Walker thought it was Holst's best work to that date. The influential critic Ernest Newman considered The Perfect Fool "the best of modern British operas", but its unusually short duration (about an hour) and its parodic and whimsical nature, described by The Times as "a brilliant puzzle", put it outside the mainstream of opera. Only the opera's ballet music, which The Times called "the "most brilliant thing in a work that sparkles with brilliant moments", has been performed regularly since 1923. Holst's libretto attracted much criticism, although Edwin Evans commented on the rare pleasure in opera of being able to hear the words being sung. Latest works Before his forced rest in 1924, Holst demonstrated a new interest in counterpoint, in his Fugal Overture of 1922 for full orchestra and the neoclassical Fugal Concerto of 1923, for flute, oboe and strings. In his last decade, he mixed arrangements of songs and minor pieces with major works and occasional new outings; Imogen cites the 1925 Terzetto for flute, violin and oboe, each instrument playing in a different key, as Holst's only successful chamber work. From the Choral Symphony completed in 1924, Matthews writes that, after several movements of real quality, the finale is an incoherent anticlimax. His penultimate opera, At the Boar's Head (1924), is based on tavern scenes from Shakespeare's Henry IV, parts 1 and 2. The music, which is largely derived from old English tunes taken from Cecil Sharp and other collections, has rhythm and verve; Contemporary critic Harvey Grace dismissed the lack of originality, a facet that, according to him, "can be shown no less convincingly by a composer's handling of the material than by its invention." Egdon Heath (1927) was Holst's first major orchestral work after The Planets. Matthews summarizes the music as "evasive and unpredictable [with] three main elements: a pulseless wandering melody [for strings], a mournful procession of brass, and restless music for strings and oboe." The mysterious dance towards the end is, says Matthews, "the strangest moment in a strange work." Richard Greene inMusic & Letters describes the piece as "a larghetto dance in a Sicilian rhythm with a simple, step-by-step swaying melody," but lacking the power of The Planets and, sometimes monotonous to the listener. A Moorside Suite for brass band was a more popular success, written as a test piece for the 1928 National Brass Band Festival championships. is composed within the traditions of brass band music from the north of the country, the suite, Short says, bears the composer's unmistakable imprint, "from the leaping 68 of the "Scherzo" opening, to the vigorous melodic quarters of the "March" finale, the "Nocturno" intermediate has a family resemblance to the slow procession of "Saturn". A Moorside Suite has been the subject of significant revisionism in the article Symphony Within: rehearing Holst&# 39;s "A Moorside Suite" by Stephen Arthur Allen in the Winter 2017 issue of The Musical Times. As with Egdon Heath Commissioned as a symphony, the article reveals the symphonic nature of this brass band work. After this, Holst tackled his last attempt at opera in a light-hearted style, with The Wandering Scholar (1929-1930), with text by Clifford Bax. Imogen refers to the music as "Holst at his best in a scherzando (playful) mood"; Vaughan Williams commented on the upbeat, folkloric rhythms: "Do you think there is too much 6< br/>8 in the opera?" Short observes that the opening motif makes several reappearances without identifying with a particular character, but imposes musical unit to the work. Holst composed few large-scale works in his later years. He wrote a Choral Fantasy in 1930 for the Three Choirs Festival in Gloucester; The work begins and ends with a soprano soloist, which also includes choirs, strings, brass and percussion, a substantial organ solo that, says Imogen Holst, "knows something of the "colossal and mysterious" solitude of Egdon Heath». Apart from his last incomplete symphony, his remaining works were for smaller casts; the eight canons of 1932 were dedicated to his students, although, in Imogen's opinion, they represent a formidable challenge for the most professional singer. The Brook Green Suite (1932), written for the St Paul's School orchestra, was a late piece that accompanied the St Paul's Suite. The Lyric Movement for viola and small orchestra (1933) was written for Lionel Tertis. Quiet and contemplative, and requiring little virtuosity on the part of the soloist, the piece was slow to gain popularity among violists. Robin Hull, in Penguin Music Magazine, praised the work's "clear beauty, impossible to to be confused with the art of any other composer"; In Dickinson's opinion, however, it remains "a fragile creation." Holst's final composition, the orchestral scherzo movement of a projected symphony, contains characteristic features of much of his earlier music: "a summary of orchestral art." Holst", according to Short. Dickinson suggests that the somewhat haphazard collection of material in the work gives little indication of the symphony that might have been written. Recordings Holst made some recordings, in which he conducted his own music. For the Columbia Graphophone Company he recorded Beni Mora, Marching Song and The Planets in full with the London Symphony Orchestra in 1922, using the acoustic process. The limitations of early recordings prevented the gradual fade-out of the women's voices at the end of "Neptune" and the lower strings had to be replaced by a tuba to obtain an effective bass sound. With an anonymous string orchestra, she recorded St Paul's Suite and Country Song in 1925. Columbia's main rival, HMV, issued recordings of some of the same repertoire, with an anonymous orchestra conducted by Albert Coates. When electrical recording arrived, with drastically improved recording quality, Holst and the London Symphony Orchestra re-recorded The Planets for Columbia in 1926. At the beginning of the LP era, little of Holst's music was available on disc. Only six of his works are listed in the 1955 edition of The Record Guide: The Planets (recordings with Boult on HMV and Nixa, and another with Malcolm Sargent on Decca); the ballet music The Perfect Fool; St Paul's Suite and three short choral pieces. In the LP and stereo CD eras, numerous recordings of The Planets were issued, performed by orchestras and conductors of all the world. In the early years of the 21st century, most of the major and many of the minor orchestral and choral works had been published in disk. The 2008 edition of The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music contained seven pages of listings of Holst's works on CD. Of the operas, Savitri, < have been recorded. i>The Wandering Scholar and At the Boar's Head. Legacy Warrack emphasizes that Holst acquired an instinctive understanding, perhaps more than any English composer, of the importance of popular song. In it he found "a new concept not only of how melody can be organized, but of what the implications were for the development of a mature artistic language." Holst did not found or direct a school of composition; However, he exerted influences on both his contemporaries and his successors. According to Short, Vaughan Williams described him as "the greatest influence on my music", although Matthews states that each influenced the other equally. Among later composers, Short recognizes Michael Tippett as the "most important artistic successor" of Holst, both in terms of compositional style and because Tippett, who succeeded him as director of music at Morley College, maintained the spirit of his music there. Of an early meeting with Holst, Tippett later wrote: "Holst seemed to look into me, with a keen spiritual vision." Kennedy observes that "a new generation of listeners... recognized in Holst the source of much of what they admired in the music of Britten and Tippett." Holst's student Edmund Rubbra, acknowledged how he and other younger English composers had adopted the economy of their style: "With what enthusiasm we stripped our music down to the bones." He further stated: [Holst's] influence is lasting in the work of all of us who value directness and sincerity and who view music not so much a secret preserve for the leisured few as a vital part of everyday life.The influence [of Holst] is lasting in the work of all who value frankness and sincerity and we see music not as much as a secret cradle for a few idle, but as a vital part of everyday life. Short cites other English composers who are indebted to Holst, notably William Walton and Benjamin Britten, and suggests that his influence may have been felt further afield. Above all, Short recognizes Holst as a composer for the people, who believed it was a composer's duty to provide music for practical purposes: festivals, celebrations, ceremonies, Christmas carols, or simple hymn tunes. Therefore, he states, "many people who may never have heard any of [Holst's] major works...nevertheless have derived great pleasure from listening to or singing such small masterpieces as the Christmas carol "In the Bleak Midwinter'. In popular culture On 27 September 2009, after a weekend of concerts at Chichester Cathedral in memory of Holst, a new memorial was unveiled to mark the 75th anniversary of the composer's death. It is inscribed with words from the text of Hymn of Jesus: "The heavenly spheres make music for us." In April 2011, a BBC television documentary, Holst: In the Bleak Midwinter, charted the composer's life with particular reference to his support of socialism and the workers' cause. Holst's birthplace, 4 Pittville Terrace (later known as 4 Clarence Road) in Pittville (Cheltenham) is now a museum in his honor and is open to visitors. Gustav Holst's music has been used in more than 150 films and television shows. On Mercury, the Holst impact crater is named in honor of the composer, approved by the International Astronomical Union in 2012, as well as the asteroid (3590) Holst, belonging to the asteroid belt and discovered on February 5, 1984 by Edward Bowell.


--- [Gustav Holst - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Gustav Holst English composer (1874–1934) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed many other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success. His distinctive compositional style was the product of many influences, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss being most crucial early in his development. The subsequent inspiration of the English folksong revival of the early 20th century, and the example of such rising modern composers as Maurice Ravel, led Holst to develop and refine an individual style. There were professional musicians in the previous three generations of Holst's family, and it was clear from his early years that he would follow the same calling. He hoped to become a pianist, but was prevented by neuritis in his right arm. Despite his father's reservations, he pursued a career as a composer, studying at the Royal College of Music under Charles Villiers Stanford. Unable to support himself by his compositions, he played the trombone professionally and later became a teacher—a great one, according to his colleague Ralph Vaughan Williams. Among other teaching activities he built up a strong tradition of performance at Morley College, where he served as musical director from 1907 until 1924, and pioneered music education for women at St Paul's Girls' School, where he taught from 1905 until his death in 1934. He was the founder of a series of Whitsun music festivals, which ran from 1916 for the remainder of his life. Holst's works were played frequently in the early years of the 20th century, but it was not until the international success of The Planets in the years immediately after the First World War that he became a well-known figure. A shy man, he did not welcome this fame, and preferred to be left in peace to compose and teach. In his later years his uncompromising, personal style of composition struck many music lovers as too austere, and his brief popularity declined. Nevertheless, he was an important influence on a number of younger English composers, including Edmund Rubbra, Michael Tippett and Benjamin Britten. Apart from The Planets and a handful of other works, his music was generally neglected until the 1980s, when recordings of much of his output became available. Remove ads Life and career Summarize Perspective Early years Family background Holst was born in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, the elder of the two children of Adolph von Holst, a professional musician, and his wife, Clara Cox, née Lediard. She was of mostly British descent,[n 1] daughter of a respected Cirencester solicitor;[2] the Holst side of the family was of mixed Swedish, Latvian and German ancestry, with at least one professional musician in each of the previous three generations.[3] One of Holst's great-grandfathers, Matthias Holst, born in Riga, Latvia, was of German origin; he served as composer and harp-teacher to the Imperial Russian Court in St Petersburg.[4] Matthias's son Gustavus, who moved to England with his parents as a child in 1802,[5] was a composer of salon-style music and a well-known harp teacher. He appropriated the aristocratic prefix "von" and added it to the family name in the hope of gaining enhanced prestige and attracting pupils.[n 2] Holst's father, Adolph von Holst, became organist and choirmaster at All Saints' Church, Cheltenham;[7] he also taught, and gave piano recitals.[7] His wife, Clara, a former pupil, was a talented singer and pianist. They had two sons; Gustav's younger brother, Emil Gottfried, became known as Ernest Cossart, a successful actor in the West End, New York and Hollywood.[8] Clara died in February 1882, and the family moved to another house in Cheltenham,[n 3] where Adolph recruited his sister Nina to help raise the boys. Gustav recognised her devotion to the family and dedicated several of his early compositions to her.[2] In 1885 Adolph married Mary Thorley Stone, another of his pupils. They had two sons, Matthias (known as "Max") and Evelyn ("Thorley").[11] Mary von Holst was absorbed in theosophy and not greatly interested in domestic matters. All four of Adolph's sons were subject to what one biographer calls "benign neglect",[11] and Gustav in particular was "not overburdened with attention or understanding, with a weak sight and a weak chest, both neglected—he was 'miserable and scared'."[12] Childhood and youth Holst was taught to play the piano and the violin; he enjoyed the former but hated the latter.[13] At the age of twelve he took up the trombone at his father's suggestion, thinking that playing a brass instrument might improve his asthma.[14] Holst was educated at Cheltenham Grammar School between 1886 and 1891.[15] He started composing in or about 1886; inspired by Macaulay's poem Horatius he began, but soon abandoned, an ambitious setting of the work for chorus and orchestra.[13] His early compositions included piano pieces, organ voluntaries, songs, anthems and a symphony (from 1892). His main influences at this stage were Mendelssohn, Chopin, Grieg and above all Sullivan.[16][n 4] Adolph tried to steer his son away from composition, hoping that he would have a career as a pianist. Holst was oversensitive and miserable. His eyes were weak, but no one realized that he needed to wear spectacles. Holst's health played a decisive part in his musical future; he had never been strong, and in addition to his asthma and poor eyesight he suffered from neuritis, which made playing the piano difficult.[18] He said that the affected arm was "like a jelly overcharged with electricity".[19] After Holst left school in 1891, Adolph paid for him to spend four months in Oxford studying counterpoint with George Frederick Sims, organist of Merton College.[20] On his return, Holst obtained his first professional appointment, aged seventeen, as organist and choirmaster at Wyck Rissington, Gloucestershire. The post brought with it the conductorship of the Bourton-on-the-Water Choral Society, which offered no extra remuneration but provided valuable experience that enabled him to hone his conducting skills.[13] In November 1891 Holst gave what was perhaps his first public performance as a pianist; he and his father played the Brahms Hungarian Dances at a concert in Cheltenham.[21] The programme for the event gives his name as "Gustav" rather than "Gustavus"; he was called by the shorter version from his early years.[21] Royal College of Music In 1892 Holst wrote the music for an operetta in the style of Gilbert and Sullivan, Lansdown Castle, or The Sorcerer of Tewkesbury.[22] The piece was performed at Cheltenham Corn Exchange in February 1893; it was well received and its success encouraged him to persevere with composing.[23] He applied for a scholarship at the Royal College of Music (RCM) in London, but the composition scholarship for that year was won by Samuel Coleridge-Taylor.[24] Holst was accepted as a non-scholarship student, and Adolph borrowed £100 to cover the first year's expenses.[n 5] Holst left Cheltenham for London in May 1893. Money was tight, and partly from frugality and partly from his own inclination he became a vegetarian and a teetotaller.[24] Two years later he was finally granted a scholarship, which slightly eased his financial difficulties, but he retained his austere personal regime.[25] Holst's professors at the RCM were Frederick Sharpe (piano), William Stephenson Hoyte (organ), George Case (trombone),[n 6] Georges Jacobi (instrumentation) and the director of the college, Hubert Parry (history). After preliminary lessons with W. S. Rockstro and Frederick Bridge, Holst was granted his wish to study composition with Charles Villiers Stanford.[27] To support himself during his studies Holst played the trombone professionally, at seaside resorts in the summer and in London theatres in the winter.[28] His daughter and biographer, Imogen Holst, records that from his fees as a player "he was able to afford the necessities of life: board and lodging, manuscript paper, and tickets for standing room in the gallery at Covent Garden Opera House on Wagner evenings".[28] He secured an occasional engagement in symphony concerts, playing in 1897 under the baton of Richard Strauss at the Queen's Hall.[4] Like many musicians of his generation, Holst came under Wagner's spell. He had recoiled from the music of Götterdämmerung when he heard it at Covent Garden in 1892, but encouraged by his friend and fellow-student Fritz Hart he persevered and quickly became an ardent Wagnerite.[29] Wagner supplanted Sullivan as the main influence on his music,[30] and for some time, as Imogen put it, "ill-assimilated wisps of Tristan inserted themselves on nearly every page of his own songs and overtures."[28] Stanford admired some of Wagner's works, and had in his earlier years been influenced by him,[31] but Holst's sub-Wagnerian compositions met with his disapprobation: "It won't do, me boy; it won't do".[28] Holst respected Stanford, describing him to a fellow-pupil, Herbert Howells, as "the one man who could get any one of us out of a technical mess",[32] but he found that his fellow students, rather than the faculty members, had the greater influence on his development.[28] In 1895, shortly after celebrating his twenty-first birthday, Holst met Ralph Vaughan Williams, who became a lifelong friend and had more influence on Holst's music than anybody else.[33] Stanford emphasised the need for his students to be self-critical, but Holst and Vaughan Williams became one another's chief critics; each would play his latest composition to the other while still working on it. Vaughan Williams later observed, "What one really learns from an Academy or College is not so much from one's official teachers as from one's fellow-students ... [we discussed] every subject under the sun from the lowest note of the double bassoon to the philosophy of Jude the Obscure.[34] In 1949 he wrote of their relationship, "Holst declared that his music was influenced by that of his friend: the converse is certainly true."[35] The year 1895 was also the bicentenary of Henry Purcell, which was marked by various performances including Stanford conducting Dido and Aeneas at the Lyceum Theatre;[36] the work profoundly impressed Holst,[4] who over twenty years later confessed to a friend that his search for "the (or a) musical idiom of the English language" had been inspired "unconsciously" by "hearing the recits in Purcell's Dido".[37] Another early influence was William Morris.[38] In Vaughan Williams's words, "It was now that Holst discovered the feeling of unity with his fellow men which made him afterwards a great teacher. A sense of comradeship rather than political conviction led him, while still a student, to join the Socialist League which met at Kelmscott House in Hammersmith."[35] At Kelmscott House, Morris's home, Holst attended lectures by his host and Bernard Shaw. His own socialism was moderate in character, but he enjoyed the club for its good company and his admiration of Morris as a man.[39] His ideals were influenced by Morris's but had a different emphasis. Morris had written, "I do not want art for a few any more than education for a few, or freedom for a few. I want all persons to be educated according to their capacity, not according to the amount of money which their parents happen to have".[40] Holst said, "'Aristocracy in art'—art is not for all but only for the chosen few—but the only way to find those few is to bring art to everyone—then the artists have a sort of masonic signal by which they recognise each other in the crowd."[n 7] He was invited to conduct the Hammersmith Socialist Choir, teaching them madrigals by Thomas Morley, choruses by Purcell, and works by Mozart, Wagner and himself.[42] One of his choristers was (Emily) Isobel Harrison (1876–1969), a beautiful soprano two years his junior. He fell in love with her; she was at first unimpressed by him, but she came round and they were engaged, though with no immediate prospect of marriage given Holst's tiny income.[42] Professional musician In 1898 the RCM offered Holst a further year's scholarship, but he felt that he had learned as much as he could there and that it was time, as he put it, to "learn by doing".[42] Some of his compositions were published and performed; the previous year The Times had praised his song "Light Leaves Whisper", "a moderately elaborate composition in six parts, treated with a good deal of expression and poetic feeling".[44] Occasional successes notwithstanding, Holst found that "man cannot live by composition alone";[35] he took posts as organist at various London churches, and continued playing the trombone in theatre orchestras. In 1898 he was appointed first trombonist and répétiteur with the Carl Rosa Opera Company and toured with the Scottish Orchestra. Though a capable rather than a virtuoso player he won the praise of the leading conductor Hans Richter, for whom he played at Covent Garden.[45] His salary was only just enough to live on,[46] and he supplemented it by playing in a popular orchestra called the "White Viennese Band", conducted by Stanislas Wurm.[47] Holst enjoyed playing for Wurm, and learned much from him about drawing rubato from players.[48][n 8] Nevertheless, longing to devote his time to composing, Holst found the necessity of playing for "the Worm" or any other light orchestra "a wicked and loathsome waste of time".[49] Vaughan Williams did not altogether agree with his friend about this; he admitted that some of the music was "trashy" but thought it had been useful to Holst nonetheless: "To start with, the very worst a trombonist has to put up with is as nothing compared to what a church organist has to endure; and secondly, Holst is above all an orchestral composer, and that sure touch which distinguishes his orchestral writing is due largely to the fact that he has been an orchestral player; he has learnt his art, both technically and in substance, not at second hand from text books and models, but from actual live experience."[17] With a modest income secured, Holst was able to marry Isobel; the ceremony was at Fulham Register Office on 22 June 1901. Their marriage lasted until his death; there was one child, Imogen, born in 1907.[50] On 24 April 1902 Dan Godfrey and the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra premiered Holst's symphony The Cotswolds (Op. 8), the slow movement of which is a lament for William Morris who had died in October 1896, three years before Holst began work on the piece.[51] In 1903 Adolph von Holst died, leaving a small legacy. Holst and his wife decided, as Imogen later put it, that "as they were always hard up the only thing to do was to spend it all at once on a holiday in Germany".[52] Composer and teacher While in Germany, Holst reappraised his professional life, and in 1903 he decided to abandon orchestral playing to concentrate on composition.[9] His earnings as a composer were too little to live on, and two years later he accepted the offer of a teaching post at James Allen's Girls' School, Dulwich, which he held until 1921. He also taught at the Passmore Edwards Settlement, where among other innovations he gave the British premieres of two Bach cantatas.[53] The two teaching posts for which he is probably best known were director of music at St Paul's Girls' School, Hammersmith, from 1905 until his death, and director of music at Morley College from 1907 to 1924.[9] Vaughan Williams wrote of the former establishment: "Here he did away with the childish sentimentality which schoolgirls were supposed to appreciate and substituted Bach and Vittoria; a splendid background for immature minds."[35] Several of Holst's pupils at St Paul's went on to distinguished careers, including the soprano Joan Cross[54] and the oboist and cor anglais player Helen Gaskell.[55] Of Holst's impact on Morley College, Vaughan Williams wrote: "[A] bad tradition had to be broken down. The results were at first discouraging, but soon a new spirit appeared and the music of Morley College, together with its offshoot the 'Whitsuntide festival' ... became a force to be reckoned with".[35] Before Holst's appointment, Morley College had not treated music very seriously (Vaughan Williams's "bad tradition"), and at first Holst's exacting demands drove many students away. He persevered, and gradually built up a class of dedicated music-lovers.[56] According to the composer Edmund Rubbra, who studied under him in the early 1920s, Holst was "a teacher who often came to lessons weighted, not with the learning of Prout and Stainer, but with a miniature score of Petrushka or the then recently published Mass in G minor of Vaughan Williams".[57] He never sought to impose his own ideas on his composition pupils. Rubbra recalled that he would divine a student's difficulties and gently guide him to finding the solution for himself. "I do not recall that Holst added one single note of his own to anything I wrote, but he would suggest—if I agreed!—that, given such and such a phrase, the following one would be better if it took such and such a course; if I did not see this, the point would not be insisted upon ... He frequently took away [because of] his abhorrence of unessentials."[58] As a composer Holst was frequently inspired by literature. He set poetry by Thomas Hardy and Robert Bridges and, a particular influence, Walt Whitman, whose words he set in "Dirge for Two Veterans" and The Mystic Trumpeter (1904). He wrote an orchestral Walt Whitman Overture in 1899.[4] While on tour with the Carl Rosa company Holst had read some of Max Müller's books, which inspired in him a keen interest in Sanskrit texts, particularly the Rig Veda hymns.[59] He found the existing English versions of the texts unconvincing,[n 9] and decided to make his own translations, despite his lack of skills as a linguist. He enrolled in 1909 at University College, London, to study the language.[60] Imogen commented on his translations: "He was not a poet, and there are occasions when his verses seem naïve. But they never sound vague or slovenly, for he had set himself the task of finding words that would be 'clear and dignified' and that would 'lead the listener into another world'".[61] His settings of translations of Sanskrit texts included Sita (1899–1906), a three-act opera based on an episode in the Ramayana (which he eventually entered for a competition for English opera set by the Milan music publisher Tito Ricordi);[62] but which was not performed until October 2024 in Saarbrücken.[63] Savitri (1908), a chamber opera based on a tale from the Mahabharata; four groups of Hymns from the Rig Veda (1908–14); and two texts originally by Kālidāsa: Two Eastern Pictures (1909–10) and The Cloud Messenger (a setting of the Meghadūta, 1910, premiered in 1913).[4] Towards the end of the nineteenth century, British musical circles had experienced a new interest in national folk music. Some composers, such as Sullivan and Elgar, remained indifferent,[64] but Parry, Stanford, Stainer and Alexander Mackenzie were founding members of the Folk-Song Society.[65] Parry considered that by recovering English folk song, English composers would find an authentic national voice; he commented, "in true folk-songs there is no sham, no got-up glitter, and no vulgarity".[65] Vaughan Williams was an early and enthusiastic convert to this cause, going round the English countryside collecting and noting down folk songs. These had an influence on Holst. Though not as passionate on the subject as his friend, he incorporated a number of folk melodies in his own compositions and made several arrangements of folk songs collected by others.[65] The Somerset Rhapsody (1906–07), was written at the suggestion of the folk-song collector Cecil Sharp and made use of tunes that Sharp had noted down. Holst described its performance at the Queen's Hall in 1910 as "my first real success".[66] A few years later Holst became excited by another musical renaissance—the rediscovery of English madrigal composers. Weelkes was his favourite of all the Tudor composers, but Byrd also meant much to him.[67] Holst was a keen rambler. He walked extensively in England, Italy, France and Algeria. In 1908 he travelled to Algeria on medical advice as a treatment for asthma and the depression that he suffered after his opera Sita failed to win the Ricordi prize.[68] This trip inspired the suite Beni Mora, which incorporated music he heard in the Algerian streets.[69] Vaughan Williams wrote of this exotic work, "if it had been played in Paris rather than London it would have given its composer a European reputation, and played in Italy would probably have caused a riot."[70] 1910s In June 1911 Holst and his Morley College students gave the first performance since the seventeenth century of Purcell's The Fairy-Queen. The full score had been lost soon after Purcell's death in 1695, and had only recently been found. Twenty-eight Morley students copied out the complete vocal and orchestral parts. There were 1,500 pages of music and it took the students almost eighteen months to copy them out in their spare time.[71] A concert performance of the work was given at The Old Vic, preceded by an introductory talk by Vaughan Williams. The Times praised Holst and his forces for "a most interesting and artistic performance of this very important work".[72] After this success, Holst was disappointed the following year by the lukewarm reception of his choral work The Cloud Messenger. He again went travelling, accepting an invitation from H. Balfour Gardiner to join him and the brothers Clifford and Arnold Bax in Spain.[73] During this holiday Clifford Bax introduced Holst to astrology, an interest that later inspired his suite The Planets. Holst cast his friends' horoscopes for the rest of his life and referred to astrology as his "pet vice".[74] In 1913, St Paul's Girls' School opened a new music wing, and Holst composed St Paul's Suite for the occasion. The new building contained a sound-proof room, handsomely equipped, where he could work undisturbed.[75] Holst and his family moved to a house in Brook Green, very close to the school. For the previous six years they had lived in a pretty house overlooking the Thames at Barnes, but the river air, frequently foggy, affected his breathing.[76] For use at weekends and during school holidays, Holst and his wife bought a cottage in Thaxted, Essex, surrounded by mediaeval buildings and ample rambling opportunities.[77] In 1917 they moved to a house in the centre of the town, where they stayed until 1925.[78] At Thaxted, Holst became friendly with the Rev Conrad Noel, known as the "Red Vicar", who supported the Independent Labour Party and espoused many causes unpopular with conservative opinion.[79] Noel also encouraged the revival of folk-dancing and processionals as part of church ceremonies, innovations which caused controversy among traditionally-minded churchgoers.[80] Holst became an occasional organist and choirmaster at Thaxted Parish Church. He started an annual music festival at Whitsuntide in 1916; students from Morley College and St Paul's Girls' School performed together with local participants.[81] Holst's a cappella carol, "This Have I Done for My True Love", was dedicated to Noel in recognition of his interest in the ancient origins of religion (the composer always referred to the work as "The Dancing Day").[82] It received its first performance during the Third Whitsun Festival at Thaxted in May 1918. During that festival, Noel, who would become a staunch supporter of Russia's October Revolution, demanded in a Saturday message during the service that there should be a greater political commitment from those who participated in the church activities; his claim that several of Holst's pupils (implicitly those from St Paul's Girls' School) were merely "camp followers" caused offence.[83] Holst, anxious to protect his students from being embroiled in ecclesiastical conflict, moved the Whitsun Festival to Dulwich, though he himself continued to help with the Thaxted choir and to play the church organ on occasion.[84] First World War At the outbreak of the First World War, Holst tried to enlist but was rejected as unfit for military service.[9] He felt frustrated that he could not contribute to the war effort. His wife became a volunteer ambulance driver; Vaughan Williams went on active service to France as did Holst's brother Emil; Holst's friends the composers George Butterworth and Cecil Coles were killed in battle.[85] He continued to teach and compose; he worked on The Planets and prepared his chamber opera Savitri for performance. It was first given in December 1916 by students of the London School of Opera at the Wellington Hall in St John's Wood.[86] It attracted no attention at the time from the main newspapers, though when professionally staged five years later it was greeted as "a perfect little masterpiece."[87] In 1917 he wrote The Hymn of Jesus for chorus and orchestra, a work which remained unperformed until after the war.[4] In 1918, as the war neared its end, Holst finally had the prospect of a job that offered him the chance to serve. The music section of the YMCA's education department needed volunteers to work with British troops stationed in Europe awaiting demobilisation.[88] Morley College and St Paul's Girls' School offered him a year's leave of absence, but there remained one obstacle: the YMCA felt that his surname looked too German to be acceptable in such a role.[6] He formally changed "von Holst" to "Holst" by deed poll in September 1918.[89] He was appointed as the YMCA's musical organiser for the Near East, based in Salonica.[90] Holst was given a spectacular send-off. The conductor Adrian Boult recalled, "Just before the Armistice, Gustav Holst burst into my office: 'Adrian, the YMCA are sending me to Salonica quite soon and Balfour Gardiner, bless his heart, has given me a parting present consisting of the Queen's Hall, full of the Queen's Hall Orchestra for the whole of a Sunday morning. So we're going to do The Planets, and you've got to conduct'."[91] There was a burst of activity to get things ready in time. The girls at St Paul's helped to copy out the orchestral parts,[91] and the women of Morley and the St Paul's girls learned the choral part in the last movement.[92] The performance was given on 29 September to an invited audience including Sir Henry Wood and most of the professional musicians in London.[93] Five months later, when Holst was in Greece, Boult introduced The Planets to the general public, at a concert in February 1919; Holst sent him a long letter full of suggestions,[n 10] but failed to convince him that the suite should be played in full. The conductor believed that about half an hour of such radically new music was all the public could absorb at first hearing, and he gave only five of the seven movements on that occasion.[95] Holst enjoyed his time in Salonica, from where he was able to visit Athens, which greatly impressed him.[96] His musical duties were wide-ranging, and even obliged him on occasion to play the violin in the local orchestra: "it was great fun, but I fear I was not of much use".[96] He returned to England in June 1919.[97] Post-war On his return from Greece, Holst resumed his teaching and composing. In addition to his existing work he accepted a lectureship in composition at the University of Reading and joined Vaughan Williams in teaching composition at their alma mater the RCM.[65] Inspired by Adrian Boult's conducting classes at the RCM, Holst tried to further pioneer music education for women by proposing to the High Mistress of St Paul's Girls' School that he should invite Boult to give classes at the school: "It would be glorious if the SPGS turned out the only women conductors in the world!"[98] In his soundproof room at SPGS he composed the Ode to Death, a setting of a poem by Whitman, which according to Vaughan Williams is considered by many to be Holst's most beautiful choral work.[35] Holst, in his forties, suddenly found himself in demand. The New York Philharmonic and Chicago Symphony Orchestra vied to be the first to play The Planets in the US.[65] The success of that work was followed in 1920 by an enthusiastic reception for The Hymn of Jesus, described in The Observer as "one of the most brilliant and one of the most sincere pieces of choral and orchestral expression heard for some years."[99] The Times called it "undoubtedly the most strikingly original choral work which has been produced in this country for many years."[100] To his surprise and dismay Holst was becoming famous.[35] Celebrity was something wholly foreign to his nature. As the music scholar Byron Adams puts it, "he struggled for the rest of his life to extricate himself from the web of garish publicity, public incomprehension and professional envy woven about him by this unsought-for success."[101] He turned down honours and awards proffered to him,[n 11] and refused to grant interviews or sign autographs.[65] Holst's comic opera The Perfect Fool (1923) was widely seen as a satire of Parsifal, though Holst firmly denied it.[102] The piece, with Maggie Teyte in the leading soprano role and Eugene Goossens conducting, was enthusiastically received at its premiere in the Royal Opera House.[103] At a concert in Reading in 1923, Holst slipped and fell, suffering concussion. He seemed to make a good recovery, and he felt up to accepting an invitation to the US, lecturing and conducting at the University of Michigan.[104] After he returned he found himself more and more in demand, to conduct, prepare his earlier works for publication, and, as before, to teach. The strain caused by these demands on him was too great; on doctor's orders he cancelled all professional engagements during 1924, and retreated to Thaxted.[105] In 1925 he resumed his work at St Paul's Girls' School, but did not return to any of his other posts.[106] Later years Holst's productivity as a composer benefited almost at once from his release from other work. His works from this period include the Choral Symphony to words by Keats (a Second Choral Symphony to words by George Meredith exists only in fragments). A short Shakespearian opera, At the Boar's Head, followed; neither had the immediate popular appeal of A Moorside Suite for brass band of 1928.[107] In 1927 Holst was commissioned by the New York Symphony Orchestra to write a symphony. Instead, he wrote an orchestral piece Egdon Heath, inspired by Thomas Hardy's Wessex. It was first performed in February 1928, a month after Hardy's death, at a memorial concert. By this time the public's brief enthusiasm for everything Holstian was waning,[106] and the piece was not well received in New York. Olin Downes in The New York Times opined that "the new score seemed long and undistinguished".[108] The day after the American performance, Holst conducted the City of Birmingham Orchestra in the British premiere. The Times acknowledged the bleakness of the work but allowed that it matched Hardy's grim view of the world: "Egdon Heath is not likely to be popular, but it says what the composer wants to say, whether we like it or not, and truth is one aspect of duty."[109] Holst had been distressed by hostile reviews of some of his earlier works, but he was indifferent to critical opinion of Egdon Heath, which he regarded as, in Adams's phrase, his "most perfectly realized composition".[110] Towards the end of his life Holst wrote the Choral Fantasia (1930) and he was commissioned by the BBC to write a piece for military band; the resulting prelude and scherzo Hammersmith was a tribute to the place where he had spent most of his life. The composer and critic Colin Matthews considers the work "as uncompromising in its way as Egdon Heath, discovering, in the words of Imogen Holst, 'in the middle of an over-crowded London ... the same tranquillity that he had found in the solitude of Egdon Heath'".[4] The work was unlucky in being premiered at a concert that also featured the London premiere of Walton's Belshazzar's Feast, by which it was somewhat overshadowed.[111] Holst wrote a score for a British film, The Bells (1931), and was amused to be recruited as an extra in a crowd scene.[112] Both film and score are now lost.[113] He wrote a "jazz band piece" that Imogen later arranged for orchestra as Capriccio.[114] Having composed operas throughout his life with varying success, Holst found for his last opera, The Wandering Scholar, what Matthews calls "the right medium for his oblique sense of humour, writing with economy and directness".[4] Harvard University offered Holst a lectureship for the first six months of 1932. Arriving via New York he was pleased to be reunited with his brother, Emil, whose acting career under the name of Ernest Cossart had taken him to Broadway; but Holst was dismayed by the continual attentions of press interviewers and photographers. He enjoyed his time at Harvard, but was taken ill while there: a duodenal ulcer prostrated him for some weeks. He returned to England, joined briefly by his brother for a holiday together in the Cotswolds.[115] His health declined, and he withdrew further from musical activities. One of his last efforts was to guide the young players of the St Paul's Girls' School orchestra through one of his final compositions, the Brook Green Suite, in March 1934.[116] Holst died in London on 25 May 1934, at the age of 59, of heart failure following an operation on his ulcer.[4] His ashes were interred at Chichester Cathedral in Sussex, close to the memorial to Thomas Weelkes, his favourite Tudor composer.[117] Bishop George Bell gave the memorial oration at the funeral, and Vaughan Williams conducted music by Holst and himself.[118] Remove ads Music Summarize Perspective Style Holst's absorption of folksong, not only in the melodic sense but in terms of its simplicity and economy of expression,[119] helped to develop a style that many of his contemporaries, even admirers, found austere and cerebral.[120][121] This is contrary to the popular identification of Holst with The Planets, which Matthews believes has masked his status as a composer of genuine originality.[4] Against charges of coldness in the music, Imogen cites Holst's characteristic "sweeping modal tunes mov[ing] reassuringly above the steps of a descending bass",[120] while Michael Kennedy points to the 12 Humbert Wolfe settings of 1929, and the 12 Welsh folksong settings for unaccompanied chorus of 1930–31, as works of true warmth.[121] Many of the characteristics that Holst employed—unconventional time signatures, rising and falling scales, ostinato, bitonality and occasional polytonality—set him apart from other English composers.[4] Vaughan Williams remarked that Holst always said in his music what he wished to say, directly and concisely; "He was not afraid of being obvious when the occasion demanded, nor did he hesitate to be remote when remoteness expressed his purpose".[122] Kennedy has surmised that Holst's economy of style was in part a product of the composer's poor health: "the effort of writing it down compelled an artistic economy which some felt was carried too far".[121] However, as an experienced instrumentalist and orchestra member, Holst understood music from the standpoint of his players and made sure that, however challenging, their parts were always practicable.[123] According to his pupil Jane Joseph, Holst fostered in performance "a spirit of practical comradeship ... none could know better than he the boredom possible to a professional player, and the music that rendered boredom impossible".[124] Early works Although Holst wrote a large number of works—particularly songs—during his student days and early adulthood, almost everything he wrote before 1904 he later classified as derivative "early horrors".[4][125] Nevertheless, the composer and critic Colin Matthews recognises even in these apprentice works an "instinctive orchestral flair".[4] Of the few pieces from this period which demonstrate some originality, Matthews pinpoints the G minor String Trio of 1894 (unperformed until 1974) as the first underivative work produced by Holst.[126] Matthews and Imogen Holst each highlight the "Elegy" movement in The Cotswold Symphony (1899–1900) as among the more accomplished of the apprentice works, and Imogen discerns glimpses of her father's real self in the 1899 Suite de ballet and the Ave Maria of 1900. She and Matthews have asserted that Holst found his genuine voice in his setting of Whitman's verses, The Mystic Trumpeter (1904), in which the trumpet calls that characterise Mars in The Planets are briefly anticipated.[4][125] In this work, Holst first employs the technique of bitonality—the use of two keys simultaneously.[9] Experimental years At the beginning of the 20th century, according to Matthews, it appeared that Holst might follow Schoenberg into late Romanticism. Instead, as Holst recognised afterwards, his encounter with Purcell's Dido and Aeneas prompted his searching for a "musical idiom of the English language";[37] the folksong revival became a further catalyst for Holst to seek inspiration from other sources during the first decade or so of the new century.[4] Indian period Holst's interest in Indian mythology, shared by many of his contemporaries, first became musically evident in the opera Sita (1901–06).[127] During the opera's long gestation, Holst worked on other Indian-themed pieces. These included Maya (1901) for violin and piano, regarded by the composer and writer Raymond Head as "an insipid salon-piece whose musical language is dangerously close to Stephen Adams".[127][n 12] Then, through Vaughan Williams, Holst discovered and became an admirer of the music of Ravel,[129] whom he considered a "model of purity" on the level with Haydn,[130] another composer he greatly admired.[131] The combined influence of Ravel, Hindu spiritualism and English folk tunes[129] enabled Holst to get beyond the once all-consuming influences of Wagner and Richard Strauss and to forge his own style. Imogen Holst has acknowledged Holst's own suggestion (written to Vaughan Williams): "[O]ne ought to follow Wagner until he leads you to fresh things". She notes that although much of his grand opera, Sita, is "'good old Wagnerian bawling' ... towards the end a change comes over the music, and the beautifully calm phrases of the hidden chorus representing the Voice of the Earth are in Holst's own language."[132] According to Rubbra, the publication in 1911 of Holst's Rig Veda Hymns was a landmark event in the composer's development: "Before this, Holst's music had, indeed, shown the clarity of utterance which has always been his characteristic, but harmonically there was little to single him out as an important figure in modern music."[59] Dickinson describes these vedic settings as pictorial rather than religious; although the quality is variable the sacred texts clearly "touched vital springs in the composer's imagination".[133] While the music of Holst's Indian verse settings remained generally western in character, in some of the vedic settings he experimented with Indian raga (scales).[134] The chamber opera Savitri (1908) is written for three solo voices, a small hidden female chorus, and an instrumental combination of two flutes, a cor anglais and a double string quartet.[135] The music critic John Warrack comments on the "extraordinary expressive subtlety" with which Holst deploys the sparse forces: "... [T]he two unaccompanied vocal lines opening the work skilfully convey the relationship between Death, steadily advancing through the forest, and Savitri, her frightened answers fluttering round him, unable to escape his harmonic pull."[9] Head describes the work as unique in its time for its compact intimacy, and considers it Holst's most successful attempt to end the domination of Wagnerian chromaticism in his music.[135] Dickinson considers it a significant step, "not towards opera, but towards an idiomatic pursuit of [Holst's] vision".[136] Of the Kālidāsa texts, Dickinson dismisses The Cloud Messenger (1910–12) as an "accumulation of desultory incidents, opportunistic dramatic episodes and ecstatic outpourings" which illustrate the composer's creative confusion during that period; the Two Eastern Pictures (1911), in Dickinson's view, provide "a more memorable final impression of Kālidāsa".[136] Folksong and other influences Holst's settings of Indian texts formed only a part of his compositional output in the period 1900 to 1914. A highly significant factor in his musical development was the English folksong revival, evident in the orchestral suite A Somerset Rhapsody (1906–07), a work that was originally to be based around eleven folksong themes; this was later reduced to four.[137] Observing the work's kinship with Vaughan Williams's Norfolk Rhapsody, Dickinson remarks that, with its firm overall structure, Holst's composition "rises beyond the level of ... a song-selection".[138] Imogen acknowledges that Holst's discovery of English folksongs "transformed his orchestral writing", and that the composition of A Somerset Rhapsody did much to banish the chromaticisms that had dominated his early compositions.[125] In the Two Songs without Words of 1906, Holst showed that he could create his own original music using the folk idiom.[139] An orchestral folksong fantasy Songs of the West, also written in 1906, was withdrawn by the composer and never published, although it emerged in the 1980s in the form of an arrangement for wind band by James Curnow.[140] In the years before the First World War, Holst composed in a variety of genres. Matthews considers the evocation of a North African town in the Beni Mora suite of 1908 the composer's most individual work to that date; the third movement gives a preview of minimalism in its constant repetition of a four-bar theme. Holst wrote two suites for military band, in E flat (1909) and F major (1911) respectively, the first of which became and remains a brass-band staple.[4] This piece, a highly original and substantial musical work, was a signal departure from what Short describes as "the usual transcriptions and operatic selections which pervaded the band repertoire".[141] Also in 1911 he wrote Hecuba's Lament, a setting of Gilbert Murray's translation from Euripides built on a seven-beat refrain designed, says Dickinson, to represent Hecuba's defiance of divine wrath.[142] In 1912 Holst composed two psalm settings, in which he experimented with plainsong;[143] the same year saw the enduringly popular St Paul's Suite (a "gay but retrogressive" piece according to Dickinson),[144] and the failure of his large scale orchestral work Phantastes.[4] In 1915 the Japanese dancer Michio Itō was planning to perform in London, and he engaged Holst to compose the musical accompaniment. As a starting point for the basic themes, Holst sat and took notes while Ito whistled Japanese folk tunes to him. The result was Holst's Japanese Suite, Op. 33.[145] Full flowering The Planets Holst conceived the idea of The Planets in 1913, partly as a result of his interest in astrology,[n 13] and also from his determination, despite the failure of Phantastes, to produce a large-scale orchestral work.[9] The chosen format may have been influenced by Schoenberg's Fünf Orchesterstücke, and shares something of the aesthetic, Matthews suggests, of Debussy's Nocturnes or La mer.[4][147] Holst began composing The Planets in 1914; the movements appeared not quite in their final sequence; "Mars" was the first to be written, followed by "Venus" and "Jupiter". "Saturn", "Uranus" and "Neptune" were all composed during 1915, and "Mercury" was completed in 1916.[4] Each planet is represented with a distinct character; Dickinson observes that "no planet borrows colour from another".[148] In "Mars", a persistent, uneven rhythmic cell consisting of five beats, combined with trumpet calls and harmonic dissonance provides battle music which Short asserts is unique in its expression of violence and sheer terror, "... Holst's intention being to portray the reality of warfare rather than to glorify deeds of heroism".[149] In "Venus", Holst incorporated music from an abandoned vocal work, A Vigil of Pentecost, to provide the opening; the prevalent mood within the movement is of peaceful resignation and nostalgia.[126][150] "Mercury" is dominated by uneven metres and rapid changes of theme, to represent the speedy flight of the winged messenger.[151] "Jupiter" is renowned for its central melody, "Thaxted", in Dickinson's view "a fantastic relaxation in which many retain a far from sneaking delight".[152] Dickinson and other critics have decried the later use of the tune in the patriotic hymn "I Vow to Thee, My Country"—despite Holst's full complicity.[9][152][n 14] For "Saturn", Holst again used a previously composed vocal piece, Dirge and Hymeneal, as the basis for the movement, where repeated chords represent the relentless approach of old age.[153] "Uranus", which follows, has elements of Berlioz's Symphonie fantastique and Dukas's The Sorcerer's Apprentice, in its depiction of the magician who "disappears in a whiff of smoke as the sonic impetus of the movement diminishes from fff to ppp in the space of a few bars".[154] "Neptune", the final movement, concludes with a wordless female chorus gradually receding, an effect which Warrack likens to "unresolved timelessness ... never ending, since space does not end, but drifting away into eternal silence".[9] Apart from his concession with "I Vow to Thee..."', Holst insisted on the unity of the whole work, and opposed the performance of individual movements.[9] Nevertheless, Imogen wrote that the piece had "suffered from being quoted in snippets as background music".[155] Maturity During and after the composition of The Planets, Holst wrote or arranged numerous vocal and choral works, many of them for the wartime Thaxted Whitsun Festivals, 1916–18. They include the Six Choral Folksongs of 1916, based on West Country tunes, of which "Swansea Town", with its "sophisticated tone", is deemed by Dickinson to be the most memorable.[156] Holst downplayed such music as "a limited form of art" in which "mannerisms are almost inevitable";[157] the composer Alan Gibbs, however, believes Holst's set at least equal to Vaughan Williams's Five English Folk Songs of 1913.[158] Holst's first major work after The Planets was The Hymn of Jesus, completed in 1917. The words are from a Gnostic text, the apocryphal Acts of John, using a translation from the Greek which Holst prepared with assistance from Clifford Bax and Jane Joseph.[159] Head comments on the innovative character of the Hymn: "At a stroke Holst had cast aside the Victorian and Edwardian sentimental oratorio, and created the precursor of the kind of works that John Tavener, for example, was to write in the 1970s".[160] Matthews has written that the Hymn's "ecstatic" quality is matched in English music "perhaps only by Tippett's The Vision of Saint Augustine";[4] the musical elements include plainsong, two choirs distanced from each other to emphasise dialogue, dance episodes and "explosive chordal dislocations".[160] In the Ode to Death (1918–19), the quiet, resigned mood is seen by Matthews as an "abrupt volte-face" after the life-enhancing spirituality of the Hymn.[4] Warrack refers to its aloof tranquillity;[9] Imogen Holst believed the Ode expressed Holst's private attitude to death.[155] The piece has rarely been performed since its premiere in 1922, although the composer Ernest Walker thought it was Holst's finest work to that date.[161] The influential critic Ernest Newman considered The Perfect Fool "the best of modern British operas",[162] but its unusually short length (about an hour) and parodic, whimsical nature—described by The Times as "a brilliant puzzle"—put it outside the operatic mainstream.[103] Only the ballet music from the opera, which The Times called "the most brilliant thing in a work glittering with brilliant moments", has been regularly performed since 1923.[163] Holst's libretto attracted much criticism, although Edwin Evans remarked on the rare treat in opera of being able to hear the words being sung.[164] Later works Before his enforced rest in 1924, Holst demonstrated a new interest in counterpoint, in his Fugal Overture of 1922 for full orchestra and the neo-classical Fugal Concerto of 1923, for flute, oboe and strings.[4] In his final decade he mixed song settings and minor pieces with major works and occasional new departures; the 1925 Terzetto for flute, viola and oboe, each instrument playing in a different key, is cited by Imogen as Holst's only successful chamber work.[165] Of the Choral Symphony completed in 1924, Matthews writes that, after several movements of real quality, the finale is a rambling anticlimax.[4] Holst's penultimate opera, At the Boar's Head (1924), is based on tavern scenes from Shakespeare's Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2. The music, which is largely derived from old English melodies gleaned from Cecil Sharp and other collections, has pace and verve;[4] the contemporary critic Harvey Grace discounted the lack of originality, a facet which he said "can be shown no less convincingly by a composer's handling of material than by its invention".[166] Egdon Heath (1927) was Holst's first major orchestral work after The Planets. Matthews summarises the music as "elusive and unpredictable [with] three main elements: a pulseless wandering melody [for strings], a sad brass processional, and restless music for strings and oboe." The mysterious dance towards the end is, says Matthews, "the strangest moment in a strange work".[4] Richard Greene in Music & Letters describes the piece as "a larghetto dance in a siciliano rhythm with a simple, stepwise, rocking melody", but lacking the power of The Planets and, at times, monotonous to the listener.[167] A more popular success was A Moorside Suite for brass band, written as a test piece for the National Brass Band Festival championships of 1928. While written within the traditions of north-country brass-band music, the suite, Short says, bears Holst's unmistakable imprint, "from the skipping 6/8 of the opening Scherzo, to the vigorous melodic fourths of the concluding March, the intervening Nocturne bearing a family resemblance to the slow-moving procession of Saturn".[168] "A Moorside Suite" has undergone major revisionism in the article "Symphony Within: Rehearing Holst's 'A Moorside Suite'" by Stephen Arthur Allen in the Winter 2017 edition of The Musical Times.[169] As with 'Egdon Heath' – commissioned as a symphony – the article reveals the symphonic nature of this brass-band work. After this, Holst tackled his final attempt at opera in a cheerful vein, with The Wandering Scholar (1929–30), to a text by Clifford Bax. Imogen refers to the music as "Holst at his best in a scherzando (playful) frame of mind";[120] Vaughan Williams commented on the lively, folksy rhythms: "Do you think there's a little bit too much 6 8 in the opera?"[170] Short observes that the opening motif makes several reappearances without being identified with a particular character, but imposes musical unity on the work.[171] Holst composed few large-scale works in his final years. A Choral Fantasia of 1930 was written for the Three Choirs Festival at Gloucester; beginning and ending with a soprano soloist, the work, also involving chorus, strings, brass and percussion, includes a substantial organ solo which, says Imogen Holst, "knows something of the 'colossal and mysterious' loneliness of Egdon Heath".[172] Apart from his final uncompleted symphony, Holst's remaining works were for small forces; the eight Canons of 1932 were dedicated to his pupils, though in Imogen's view that they present a formidable challenge to the most professional of singers. The Brook Green Suite (1932), written for the orchestra of St Paul's School, was a late companion piece to the St Paul's Suite.[155] The Lyric Movement for viola and small orchestra (1933) was written for Lionel Tertis. Quiet and contemplative, and requiring little virtuosity from the soloist, the piece was slow to gain popularity among violists.[173] Robin Hull, in Penguin Music Magazine, praised the work's "clear beauty—impossible to mistake for the art of any other composer"; in Dickinson's view, however, it remains "a frail creation".[174] Holst's final composition, the orchestral scherzo movement of a projected symphony, contains features characteristic of much of Holst's earlier music—"a summing up of Holst's orchestral art", according to Short.[175] Dickinson suggests that the somewhat casual collection of material in the work gives little indication of the symphony that might have been written.[176] Remove ads Recordings Summarize Perspective Holst made some recordings, conducting his own music. For the Columbia company he recorded Beni Mora, the Marching Song and the complete Planets with the London Symphony Orchestra (LSO) in 1922, using the acoustic process. The limitations of early recording prevented the gradual fade-out of women's voices at the end of "Neptune", and the lower strings had to be replaced by a tuba to obtain an effective bass sound.[177] With an anonymous string orchestra Holst recorded the St Paul's Suite and Country Song in 1925.[178] Columbia's main rival, HMV, issued recordings of some of the same repertoire, with an unnamed orchestra conducted by Albert Coates.[179] When electrical recording came in, with dramatically improved recording quality, Holst and the LSO re-recorded The Planets for Columbia in 1926.[180] In the early LP era little of Holst's music was available on disc. Only six of his works are listed in the 1955 issue of The Record Guide: The Planets (recordings under Boult on HMV and Nixa, and another under Sir Malcolm Sargent on Decca); the Perfect Fool ballet music; the St Paul's Suite; and three short choral pieces.[181] In the stereo LP and CD eras numerous recordings of The Planets were issued, performed by orchestras and conductors from round the world. By the early years of the 21st century most of the major and many of the minor orchestral and choral works had been issued on disc. The 2008 issue of The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music contained seven pages of listings of Holst's works on CD.[182] Of the operas, Savitri, The Wandering Scholar, and At the Boar's Head have been recorded.[183] Legacy Summarize Perspective [Holst's] influence is lasting in the work of all of us who value directness and sincerity and who view music not so much a secret preserve for the leisured few as a vital part of everyday life A tribute from Edmund Rubbra[184] Warrack emphasises that Holst acquired an instinctive understanding—perhaps more so than any English composer—of the importance of folksong. In it he found "a new concept not only of how melody might be organized, but of what the implications were for the development of a mature artistic language".[9] Holst did not found or lead a school of composition; nevertheless, he influenced both contemporaries and successors. According to Short, Vaughan Williams described Holst as "the greatest influence on my music",[123] although Matthews asserts that each influenced the other equally.[4] Among later composers, Michael Tippett is acknowledged by Short as Holst's "most significant artistic successor", both in terms of compositional style and because Tippett, who succeeded Holst as director of music at Morley College, maintained the spirit of Holst's music there.[123] Of an early encounter with Holst, Tippett later wrote: "Holst seemed to look right inside me, with an acute spiritual vision".[185] Kennedy observes that "a new generation of listeners ... recognized in Holst the fount of much that they admired in the music of Britten and Tippett".[121] Holst's pupil Edmund Rubbra acknowledged how he and other younger English composers had adopted Holst's economy of style: "With what enthusiasm did we pare down our music to the very bone".[120] Short cites other English composers who are in debt to Holst, in particular William Walton and Benjamin Britten, and suggests that Holst's influence may have been felt further afield.[n 15] Above all, Short recognises Holst as a composer for the people, who believed it was a composer's duty to provide music for practical purposes—festivals, celebrations, ceremonies, Christmas carols or simple hymn tunes. Thus, says Short, "many people who may never have heard any of [Holst's] major works ... have nevertheless derived great pleasure from hearing or singing such small masterpieces as the carol 'In the Bleak Midwinter'".[187] On 27 September 2009, after a weekend of concerts at Chichester Cathedral in memory of Holst, a new memorial was unveiled to mark the 75th anniversary of the composer's death. It is inscribed with words from the text of The Hymn of Jesus: "The heavenly spheres make music for us".[188] In April 2011 a BBC television documentary, Holst: In the Bleak Midwinter, charted Holst's life with particular reference to his support for socialism and the cause of working people.[189] Holst's birthplace, 4 Pittville Terrace (later known as 4 Clarence Road) in Pittville, Cheltenham, is now a museum, the Holst Victorian House, and is open to visitors.[190] Remove ads Notes and references External links Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads
