=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Seth Milchick - Wikipedia]
Seth Milchick is a character and one of the main antagonists of the Apple TV+ series Severance, portrayed by Tramell Tillman. He manages the severed floor, and is loyal to the company Lumon. The character has been praised by critics, with Tillman earning a Primetime Emmy Award for his performance in the second season.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seth_Milchick

[Seth Milchick | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Seth Milchick is the former supervisor-turned new manager of the severed floor at Lumon Industries. Milchick was pleased when Helena Eagan came to Lumon to be severed to begin working on the severed floor. He greeted her and explained how the process would go. Then he stayed with her as she underwent the procedure to have the implant placed in her brain. Once that was done, he sent her to the ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Seth_Milchick

[Severed Floor | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
The Severed Floor, codenamed as the SVR'd Floor, is a section of the Lumon Branch 501 building, where employees who have undergone the severance procedure work on their projects. The Severed Floor is accessible via one or more elevators leading to the main floor, as well as at least one stairwell. Upon reaching the Severed Floor via elevator or stepping through the stairwell door onto the ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Severed_Floor

[Seth Milchick - Severance Wiki]
Jan 16, 2026 · Seth Milchick was previously the severed floor employee liaison and deputy manager at Lumon Industries, where he also provided security support. In that role, he administered the The Compunction Statement in the Break Room as well as escorting employees when there was any kind of change in their routine, floor layout, or spatially dictated access.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/seth_milchick

[Severance (TV series)]
Patricia Arquette as Harmony Cobel, the manager of the severed floor at Lumon, who outside of work uses the false identity of Mark's next-door neighbor, "Mrs. ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severance_(TV_series)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Seth Milchick - Wikipedia] ---
Seth Milchick is a character and one of the main antagonists of the Apple TV+ series Severance, portrayed by Tramell Tillman. He manages the severed floor, and is loyal to the company Lumon. The character has been praised by critics, with Tillman earning a Primetime Emmy Award for his performance in the second season.


--- [Seth Milchick | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Seth Milchick is the former supervisor-turned new manager of the severed floor at Lumon Industries. History[] Milchick was pleased when Helena Eagan came to Lumon to be severed to begin working on the severed floor. He greeted her and explained how the process would go. Then he stayed with her as she underwent the procedure to have the implant placed in her brain. Once that was done, he sent her to the severed floor to begin work. He greeted her when she returned shortly after through the stairwell. He explained that it sometimes took innies time to adjust to their reality and encouraged her to go back in. He had to send her back in a few more times before she finally stayed. At the end of her first day, he greeted her with flowers.[2] When Petey didn't come to work one day, Milchick came to MDR and asked to talk to Mark. He led Mark to Ms. Cobel's office, where Cobel told Mark he was the new department chief because Petey no longer worked for Lumon. She was unable to tell him more than that. Then Milchick gave him a binder and they sent him to train the new employee, Helly R. They watched this process on a monitor and when Helly tried to escape, Milchick asked if he should go help. Cobel told him no. During the training, Helly threw a speaker at Mark's head, causing a cut. Milchick bandaged it while Cobel talked to Helly. Once they were done, Milchick took Helly to MDR to watch the video that was the last part of her training, a video of her outie consenting to being severed. Once it was over, Milchick sent Helly to her desk to start work.[3] To welcome Helly to the team, Milchick brought in a melon bar and had them play a game to get to know each other. When Helly claimed she didn't know anything she could share, he showed her that he could by saying some facts about her. The game continued until Mark confessed to breaking protocol because seeing the picture of Petey made him sad. Milchick questioned why he had those feelings about Petey, but not other workers who had left. Mark said they knew ahead of time that the others were leaving, but Petey was just gone. Milchick said that things like death only happened outside Lumon and they should feel gratitude for that. Then he transitioned them to the melon bar. While they ate, Milchick called them over to take the new group photo. He took several shots until Helly stepped away. She wrote her outie a note and said she was quitting. She ignored their warnings about the code detectors and went to the elevator, which set off an alarm. Mark took the blame and was sent to the Break Room in Helly's place. The next day, Mark called in sick to work. When Milchick told Cobel and Graner about this, they agreed the timing was suspicious. Later that day, Milchick came to MDR when Irving fell asleep at his desk. Milchick took Irving for a Wellness check with Ms. Casey.[2] When Cobel brought a wrapped package from Mark's porch to work and found out it was his brother-in-law's fifth book, she had Milchick review it for any hidden messages. He was reading the book when an alarm went off because Helly tried to get a message out while visiting the Perpetuity Wing. Milchick greeted Helly in the Break Room and cleaned up her arm, which had been cut by glass. Then he had her sit down with her palms flat on the table and recite a statement of contrition. When he wasn't satisfied that she meant it, he had her read it again and again.[4] By the end of the work day, Milchick still wasn't satisfied, so he told Helly they'd try again the next day. In all, he made her recite the statement 1,072 times before he let her go back to MDR. Still dissatisfied with her existence, Helly took a paper cutter to Cobel's office and burst past Milchick to enter and threaten to cut off her own fingers if Cobel didn't let her record a message to her outie. Milchick recorded that video and then they escorted Helly to the elevator with the disk. Helly returned soon after with a disk that contained her outie's reply, refusing to let her quit and saying that while she, the outie, was a person, Helly was not. After Cobel went to Petey's funeral to retrieve his severance chip, she brought it back to Lumon and handed it off to Milchick to take it diagnostics.[5] When Helly attempted suicide, Milchick went with Cobel to greet Mark, who was returning to work after discovering her hanging. Cobel told him that Helly was in the hospital, but would be okay, then implied that he was at fault because it happened on his watch. When Helly returned to work, Milchick coached Mark to have kind eyes, as it would be the first time innie Helly was conscious since her suicide attempt. Milchick found Irving trying to make a copy and discovering a painting being printed instead of what he copied. Milchick told Irving it was meant as a joke for Cobel and said that the coup depicted in the painting had never happened. Milchick then told Cobel he'd done it to discourage Irving from seeing Burt more.[6] Despite Milchick's subtle warning, the team from MDR continued to visit O&D. Milchick came in and interrupted a meeting between the two teams. He led the MDR team back to their department, where Cobel was waiting. She sang a loyalty song to Kier and then sent Mark to the break room. After seeing footage of Dylan stealing an idiographic card from O&D, Milchick went to Dylan's home and activated a process called the Overtime Contingency that allowed him to speak to Dylan's innie outside of Lumon. Dylan was surprised to find himself outside Lumon and told Milchick that it was in the bathroom behind a toilet. When Jim George came in and hugged Dylan, Milchick pulled him back and reminded him that their deal was to count to 1000 and stay out. Milchick then ended the session and allowed Jim to hug Dylan. Dylan asks if they were good and Milchick said they were and left.[7] After the new door was installed at MDR, Milchick tested it out and then greeted each member of the team as they arrived and escorted them to MDR. Milchick then went to O&D, where Burt was already there working. He said that they could focus on final preparations for the day and said Burt had been a great leader for O&D and Milchick had something special planned. When Dylan arrived, Milchick explained that what he'd experienced was called the Overtime Contingency, but he declined to tell Dylan anything about his life, saying it was better if he didn't know. Later that day, Milchick brought in a cart for a Music Dance Experience to celebrate Helly getting to 75%. When Irving pointed out that she was only at 73%, Milchick said they all needed something nice. He put the music on and all of them except Dylan started dancing. The Music Dance Experience abruptly ended when Dylan lunged at Milchick, knocking him over and biting him. Milchick left to tend to his bite. Later that day, Milchick attended Burt's retirement party in O&D. He showed a video of Burt's outie thanking everyone for the experience and saying goodbye. When Milchick noticed Irving there, he ordered him back to MDR. Burt convinced Milchick to let him stay for the party. Milchick agreed, but escorted Irving back to MDR once it was over.[8] Milchick got several calls from Cobel. When he finally answered one, she told him that someone had activated the Overtime Contingency. She told him she'd go to the gala to handle Helly while he went to the security office to stop it. When he got there, Milchick found the door being held shut by Dylan's belt. He tried to get Dylan to open the door, offering him perks, but Dylan refused. Milchick used a small knife to cut through the belt and when he got in, he pushed Dylan off the switches, ending the Overtime Contingency.[9] Milchick and Cobel watched eagerly at MDR got closer to meeting their quota. Cobel told Milchick to prepare for them to make it and schedule an end-of-the-quarter wellness session for Mark. While Mark had the session, Cobel and Milchick watched and said it was good that he and Ms. Casey didn't remember each other. It meant the chips were working. After the session, Milchick escorted Ms. Casey, who had been fired, to a hallway that led to an elevator that went down. Milchick then brought the MDR team their pre-waffle party egg bar social and gave Dylan a present for being refiner of the quarter for the third time. The party abruptly ended when Milchick had to leave. He went to escort Cobel, who had been fired, out of the building. Milchick then returned to MDR to get Dylan to take him to Perpetuity for his waffle party.[10] Following the Macrodat Uprising, Milchick went to visit Outie Dylan and Outie Irving to fire them. Then he went to see Mark and emphasized how brave he was to activate the Overtime Contingency. He wanted to see Mark back at work the following Monday. When Milchick heard that Mark was planing to quit, he brought Mark a gift basket from Lumon and reminded him of why he'd chosen to take the job in the first place, to be free of the pain of losing Gemma. It worked and Mark agreed to come back. To join him, Milchick brought in Dario Rossi from overseas and Gwendolyn Y. and Mark Wilkins, who had been laid off from another branch.[11] When Mark returned, Milchick greeted him and welcomed him back. He told Mark that their coup made the news and they were famous. And Lumon had made changes in response, but that Mark was the only member of his team to choose to return. He apologized for his past behavior, but said that he couldn't bring the rest of Mark's team back. Mark rebelled against Milchick, planting a note on Mark W. denigrating the company. After distracting Milchick, Mark ran to his office and used the radio to appeal directly to the board, asking for his team back. Milchick found him and escorted him out. When Mark returned, the rest of his team came back as well and Milchick called them all to the new, improved Break Room, where he showed them a video about the uprising and explained that they, not their outies, had a choice to stay or leave. He gave them until the end of the day to decide. While waiting for them to decide, Milchick called Dylan to come talk to him. He told Dylan his wife's name is Gretchen and showed him the plans for an Outie Family Visitation Suite, which would allow Dylan's family to visit him at Lumon. He asked Dylan not to tell the others as they were all single and he didn't want it to cause conflict between them.[1] Natalie brought Milchick a present from the board. He opened it to find the Kier series with Kier depicted as a Black man. Natalie told him the board had given her the same present when she got her current job. He expressed his appreciation for the gift, but at the end of the day, before leaving, he put the pictures all back in the box and put them on a high shelf.[12] Milchick arranged for the four members of MDR to have an outdoor retreat at Dieter Eagan National Forest. He recorded a video explaining that they'd be there for two days and would follow Kier's path through the area with help along the way. After they found the cave with the fourth appendix, which told Kier and Dieter's story, Milchick met them and led them to a camp with food and amenities for them to enjoy. After dark, he read them more of Kier and Dieter's story. When Mark and Helly laughed at Dieter's death, he chastised them and had Miss Huang throw their marshmallows in the fire before leaving. The next morning, Milchick reappeared when Dylan Mark called for him. They told him Irving and Helly were missing. They followed their cries to where Irving was holding Helly. Once he had Milchick's attention, Irving started to drown her and told him to bring Helly back, as he knew this wasn't her. At a time when Helly's head was above the water, she yelled for "Seth" to do it and Milchick had someone end the Glasgow block, bringing Helly back. Irving cradled her and told her he was sorry. Mark then came and wrapped his coat around her. Milchick then came and told Irving that he was fired and his outie would be notified. Dylan said he was sorry for not believing Irving and Milchick ordered them to cease communication. He had Irving walk into the forest and said it would be like Irving B. never existed. Then he told someone on his radio to do it now.[13] When the MDR workers returned to work on Monday, he had them brought to this office, where he told them that Helena had come to work with them to learn their true grievances and Irving would not be returning because of what he'd done to her. Milchick then escorted them back to MDR, where they found all traces of Irving erased. Seeing this, Dylan asked for a funeral for Irving, which Milchick agreed to grant. He had Miss Huang help him set it up, though Miss Huang felt he shouldn't let them do it as it would make them believe they were people. At the funeral, he gave them a brief moment to remember Irving and then called Dylan up to deliver a eulogy. Once that was done, he had a melon shaped like Irving's head brought in for them to enjoy. Later, Milchick had his first performance review as the new department head. Before he went in, he asked Natalie about her own feelings when she received the paintings, since he felt they had similar experiences, but she refused to say anything. They went into his review, where Drummond went over the positives and then the negatives of his performance. He told Milchick that he believed that Mark's work on Cold Harbor and the importance of it historically had gone to his head. Milchick agreed to tighten the reins on his employees. This started with Milchick stopped Mark, who was trying to leave work six minutes early. He told Mark he wanted to put the past behind them and look forward to productive work days ahead. He asked if Mark had told Helly about having sex with her outie on the retreat. Mark didn't answer, but Milchick stepped out of the elevator and let him leave.[14] Milchick left Miss Huang in charge of the floor for the day and addressed the criticisms from his performance review. First, he sat down with two stacks of paper and a jar of paperclips and practiced applying them correctly. Once that was finished, he looked at the point about him using too many big words and practiced making shorter commands with simpler words.[15] Milchick was sent to the Exports Hall when Ms. Casey emerged from the elevator as Gemma had tried to escape the Testing Floor. He told her her outie had been at Lumon for an art exhibition and gone into the wrong elevator. He had her go back in, refusing to answer her questions.[16] Milchick presented Miss Huang with a Kier bust and congratulated her on finishing her fellowship. He then told her she would be going to the Gunnel Eagan Empathy Center in Svalbard and a shuttle would take her there at the end of the day. As the handbook required, he then talked her through using the bust to break her ring toss game as a material sacrifice. When Drummond learned that no progress was being made on Cold Harbor despite the work day starting, he called Milchick and told him to get Mark to work. Milchick called Mark, but got no answer. Helly also asked him where Mark was, but he refused to tell her and sent her back to work. When Dylan resigned that day, Milchick told him it showed a lack of gratitude. Milchick met with Drummond, who blamed him for Mark coming to work. Milchick finally stood up to him, saying he was in charge of the severed floor, but not what employees did outside of there. When Mark finally called, Milchick tried to get him to come to Lumon for care when he said he was worried about the nosebleeds. Mark admitted he just needed a day and promised Milchick to come in the next day.[17] Milchick met Dylan when he returned to work and led him to a private room so he could read his outie's response to his request on his own. Then he ran to make preparations for the celebration of Mark completing Cold Harbor. As soon as Mark finished, Milchick started a special show, which involved a Kier animatronic personally congratulating him and then a marching band playing. During the song, Helly took Milchick's radio, distracting him so Mark could escape. She threw it in a toilet and then trapped him in the bathroom. He tried to fight his way out, but remained trapped after Dylan pushed the vending machine in front of the door. He ordered Choreography and Merriment to go back to their department, but when he was finally able to knock the vending machine over and climb on top of it, he was faced with Dylan and every member of Choreography and Merriment standing up against him.[18] Personality[] Milchick outwardly appears to be a very happy and jovial man, but this is his mask that he wears for his severed employees. In reality he is cold-hearted and will do anything for his job, although he tried to mitigate the Innies' work conditions with reforms. Later, it becomes apparent that Milchick has begun to feel discontentment towards Lumon and the Board, in particular following the Board's tone-deaf (if not overtly racist) gift of "recanonicalized" paintings showing Kier as a Black man. He also has come to resent Miss Huang's encroachment on his authority and Mr. Drummond's heavy-handedness in dealing with him, causing him to take great pleasure in facilitating Miss Huang's departure and also leading him to stand up to Drummond when he blamed him for the delays in finishing Cold Harbor. Physical Description[] Milchick is a man with brown skin and brown eyes. He has curly black hair that is kept short and neat. He is always smiling, but it never looks genuine. Milchick dresses business casual, often in white button-ups and slacks, with dress shoes. Relationships[] Milchick has significantly strained relationships with the Macrodata Refinement team. Before the Macrodat Uprising, the team's disillusionment with Lumon grows, hence all four begin to see Milchick as an enemy. Milchick engages in man-to-man confrontations with all three male MDR workers. HIs relationship with Helly R is less intense, but by no means friendly. His relationship with Dylan G is particularly venomous. He withholds further information about his family from him after sees his son during the Overtime Contingency, resulting in a bout between the two culminating in violence and verbal abuse initiated by Dylan. Milchick tackles Dylan in the security office. The grudge lightens after the Outie Family Visitation Suite is introduced for Dylan's benefit, however there is no love lost as Dylan continues to rebel against him by helping Helly force him into the bathroom after Mark completes Cold Harbor, and by continually complaining about his treatment leading up to the Macrodat Uprising. The two often engage in tense confrontations. Irving B is initially loyal and attentive to Milchick's demands. Milchick is concerned about Irving's dozing, sending him for a Wellness check, and attempts to put him off of visiting O&D by printing off copies of The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design. However, upon becoming devastated by the sudden retirement of Burt G and Milchick's dissatisfaction about him attending his retirement party, Irving chastises him, calling him a "smug motherfucker". The conflict between Milchick and Irving B comes to a climax during the ORTBO, where he fires Irving as a result of him forcing Milchick to remove the Glasgow Block and torturing Helena Eagan. During this, he highlights the symmetry between 'firing' and death for the Innie, rephrasing Irving's speech to him during Burt's retirement party ("like he/you never existed"). Mark S and Mr Milchick also engage in confrontation. Mark initially recognises Milchick's potential cruelty, warning Helly R that "he can't always be nice [like that]", making sure he falls on his good side by obeying him and laughing at his jokes. After the OTC is activated, Mark S returns to work with a brand new team, and fights to get his old team back by tricking Milchick and lying about wanting them back so that they can "serve Kier together". Mark's continued rebellion (and sly behaviour) forms a rift between the two, but Milchick concedes as Mark S (and his relationship to Gemma) is too important to Lumon to risk losing, and the return of MDR would be beneficial for forensic analysis of the Macrodat Uprising. As Milchick's performance review forces him to "tighten the leash", he intimidates Mark in the elevator in response to his chippy remarks. Milchick and Mr Drummond have a tense working relationship. Mr Drummond is responsible for criticising Milchick's performance as Floor Manager, and Milchick is initially subservient to him but eventually gives up, patronising Drummond ("To put that monosyllabically...") and highlighting Drummond's role in Mark S's continued failure to complete the Cold Harbor file. Milchick has a somewhat adversarial relationship with Eustice Huang, who occasionally questions his managerial decisions and "anonymously" reported his missteps to Lumon's upper management prior to his first performance review. Annoyed with her "childish folly" and her stepping on his toes, he takes the earliest possible opportunity to conclude her Wintertide Fellowship and transfer her to the Gunnel Eagan Empathy Center in extremely remote Svalbard. Quotes[] "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | Notes and Trivia[] - In the Lexington Letter, the editor of the Topeka Star newspaper is named Jim Milchick. His relationship to Seth, if there is any, remains unknown. Gallery[] Promotional[] Screenshots[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 Hello, Ms. Cobel, 2x01 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ Who Is Alive?, 2x03 - ↑ Woe's Hollow, 2x04 - ↑ Trojan's Horse, 2x05 - ↑ Attila, 2x06 - ↑ Chikhai Bardo, 2x07 - ↑ The After Hours, 2x09 - ↑ Cold Harbor, 2x10


--- [Severed Floor | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Severed Floor, codenamed as the SVR'd Floor, is a section of the Lumon Branch 501 building, where employees who have undergone the severance procedure work on their projects. Background[] The Severed Floor is accessible via one or more elevators leading to the main floor, as well as at least one stairwell. Upon reaching the Severed Floor via elevator or stepping through the stairwell door onto the Severed Floor, Severed employees transition into their "Innie" personas, and revert to their "Outie" personas upon leaving. The elevators and stairwell doors are alleged by Severed Floor management to contain "code detectors" capable of picking up any form of symbolic or written information, even inside a person's body. The code detectors are put to the test by Helly multiple times in the first season and by Mark in the second season. Mark is implied to have tested out the code detectors with Peter prior to Helly's attempts in the first season. The majority of the Severed Floor consists of a maze-like network of corridors, all of which are uniformly blank white and contain very little signage. There are no barriers between the various Severed departments, but they are physically separated and encouraged not to fraternize with one another, with management even using legends of interdepartmental slaughters or other bizarre tales to keep them from reaching out to one another. These tactics and the maze-like corridors that make up the severed floor of Branch 501 keep all of the departments mistrusting one another, unsure of how many departments and employees actually inhabit the floor. Other branches of Lumon around the world (Lumon operates in 206 different countries in the present day) also appear to have their own severed floors. These include Branch 5X (where Mark W. and Gwendolyn Y. worked before being laid off) and an unidentified "overseas" branch where Dario Rossi worked before being transferred to Branch 501. Dario notes that his original branch was poor; the Perpetuity Wing there used brooms with plates affixed to the handles as stand-ins for proper models of the Eagan family, and instead of using an elevator to access the severed floor, severed employees had to climb and descend a rope. Departments[] Macrodata Refinement (MDR)[] Mark S. and the other main character of the show work in Macrodata Refinement, identifying and categorizing numbers based on an emotional response. They do not know what the actual purpose of this work is. Optics and Design (O&D)[] The Optics and Design department ostensibly is responsible for the artwork and signage in the Lumon building, but they also more clandestinely manufacture objects in 3D printers. Like the MDR employees, O&D do not seem to know the purpose behind their work. Mammalians Nurturable[] Mammalians Nurturable is tasked with raising and caring for goats, for purposes that remain unknown. They are located in a large room containing a grassy hillside environment, which is connected to several other rooms including the "goat room" discovered by Mark S. and Helly R. Security Office[] The Security Office is a restricted-access area used to monitor the Severed Floor by Lumon Industries' administrative staff. The office contains a huge surveillance network connected to dozens of CCTV cameras across the floor, as well as a control center for directly managing the various functions of the Severance chip. Access is permitted only to employees who possessed a black security keycard. Doug Graner formerly had access to the office as Head of Security until his death.[1] It is unknown if Graner was joined by other security workers, nor who has replaced him in the wake of his demise. Others[] Other departments include Disposal and Reclamation, three departments whose abbreviations are "CE", "CL", and "WN", and others. Ms. Casey is the "part-time" severed wellness counselor who works alone in a room called the Wellness Center. There are several other unknown departments discovered by Mark S. and Helly R. during their investigation of the security department. Administration[] Seth Milchick appears to be the immediate supervisor of MDR and O&D, possibly others. Harmony Cobel is manager of MDR, and possibly other departments as well. Doug Graner was until his death responsible for security on the severed floor. Perpetuity Wing[] The Perpetuity Wing is a museum-like section of the severed floor set aside to commemorate the history of Lumon Industries, with a focus on the Eagan family and Kier Eagan. Severed employees are encouraged to visit the Perpetuity Wing to contemplate Lumon corporate culture and the positive effects that Lumon's products have on the customers it serves around the world. Gallery[] - ↑ Defiant Jazz 1x07


--- [Seth Milchick - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Seth Milchick | | | Also Known As | Mr. Milchick, Mr. Milkshake | |---|---| | Portrayed By | Tramell Tillman | | Occupation | Severed Floor Manager at Lumon Industries | | Status | Alive | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Seth Milchick was previously the severed floor employee liaison and deputy manager at Lumon Industries, where he also provided security support. In that role, he administered the The Compunction Statement in the Break Room as well as escorting employees when there was any kind of change in their routine, floor layout, or spatially dictated access. Ostensibly he also served these functions for the other departments on the severed floor, not just MDR. He is known to the Optics and Design and Mammalians Nurturable departments. He drives a Royal Enfield motorcycle with a PE license plate number LFS 159. He has since been promoted to Manager of the Severed floor and has redecorated that office to suit his managerial and personal style, including maintaining a bonsai tree and a painting of a melting iceberg. Despite his promotion and the presence of a replacement Deputy Manager in Miss Huang, Mr. Milchick is busier than ever as MDR draws closer to completing the Cold Harbor file. Nothing is known about Seth Milchick's life outside the halls of Lumon, though he has visited Dylan and Irving at their homes. In the Deputy Manager role, he covered a wide array of responsibilities, which have persisted since his promotion to Manager: As Manager of the Severed Floor, his duties and responsibilities expanded greatly, and little was removed from the list of responsibilities. He enacted multiple Severance Reforms in a high-stakes bid to lure Mark Scout back to complete his mysterious and important work. In reimagining the Break Room and softening the Security Office, Mr. Milchick inadvertently created new cracks in the team which could have resulted in Cold Harbor not being completed. While initially seeming to be successful, the ripples from the additional freedoms and reduced reminders of surveillance did little to quell the rebellious spirit that had been awakened in his MDR charges. His calamitous ORTBO nearly led to the death of the heir apparent to Chief Executive Officer at Lumon, Helena Eagan and the complete erasure of his senior refiner, Irving B. His first monthly performance review did go well, with contentions both trivial and serious. He achieved a preternatural amount of renovations, propaganda works, and rehearsed an entire Choreography and Merriment presentation while still maintaining an authoritative presence on the severed floor. He has adopted the florid speaking style of Lumon upper management, but is unjustly excoriated for it instead of celebrated. His managerial style was assessed to be one of a staunch, inflexible mitigator.[1] He resides in Baird Creek Townhouses, presumably part of the greater development of Baird Creek Manor. Mark: Wait, we’re locked in now? Milchick: I prefer “safely situated.”Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (16:55) The Music Dance Experience is officially canceled.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (26:30) Just say the word, and I'll get you a coffee cozy literally right now, Dylan.Season 1, Episode 9, The We We Are (33:15) Welcome back, Mark S. Been a minute.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (03:58) You can leave the balloons in the foyer by my old desk. We've much to discuss, and I don't want them distracting you. I assure you, they won't be taken.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (06:10) I locked you in a room like an animal, Mark. As an unsevered man, I'll carry that knowledge the rest of my life.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (04:21) Is it earnest? Do you really think I'm a shambolic rube?Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (16:22) If someone calls about my welcome screen, I need you to put that call through immediately.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (42:09) If you take the name of the room at face value, I'd say yes.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (43:48) This is the tallest waterfall on the planet.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (17:32) The handbook enriches our work with tales of the founder's life. Every word is truth.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (24:54) Marshmallows are for team players, Dylan. They don't just hand them out.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (26:38) Irving B., stand. You have threatened collegial murder in the pond of Woe's Hollow. For this, there can be no penalty but immediate and permanent dismissal. There shall be no formal valediction, catered or otherwise. Your outie will be notified forthwith.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (46:18) Your workspace will be cleared and any personal items discarded. Your file, including any and all professional interactions and personal relations, will be purged and destroyed. It will be as if you, Irving B., never even existed nor drew a single breath upon this Earth. May Kier's mercy follow you into the eternal dark.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (48:30) Have you ever heard the story of the Gråkappan? […] In ancient times, the king of Sweden himself was known to go incognito amongst his people in the hopes of learning their true grievances. He would don an old, gray robe, a Gråkappan, the name for which he was remembered, to disguise his royal vestments. Kier Eagan himself was known to do so in his ether factories, and Ms. Eagan was carrying on this noble tradition.Season 2, Episode 5, Trojan's Horse (11:10) I'll ready the refreshments. You focus on the mournful signage.Season 2, Episode 5, Trojan's Horse (19:25) Thank you, Dylan G. A little sugar with your usual salt.Season 2, Episode 5, Trojan's Horse (21:42) I'm tightening the leash.Season 2, Episode 5, Trojan's Horse (32:30) Empathy awaits, fellow Huang.Season 2, Episode 9, The After Hours (05:30) Devour feculence. It means “eat shit,” Mr. Drummond.Season 2, Episode 9, The After Hours (28:18) To put that monosyllabically, it's not my fault what Mark Scout does when he is not at work. It's yours.Season 2, Episode 9, The After Hours (28:56) If you would like to contribute to this article, please join our Severance Show Discord and submit your suggestions in the #wiki channel.


--- [Severance (TV series)] ---
Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller television series created by Dan Erickson, and executive produced and primarily directed by Ben Stiller. It stars Adam Scott, Zach Cherry, Britt Lower, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, Patricia Arquette, and Sarah Bock. The series follows employees at Lumon Industries, a biotechnology corporation, that have undergone "severance"—a procedure that splits a person's memories between work and their personal life. This creates two separate identities for employees: the "innie", who has no knowledge of the outside world, and the "outie", who lives their life outside without any knowledge of their job.
Erickson and Stiller first developed Severance in 2015, with the series being greenlit by Apple TV in 2019, with Scott attached. The cast for the first season was rounded out by December 2020, and the cast for the second season was announced in October 2022. Principal photography for the series has taken place in New York, New Jersey and Newfoundland. Its first season aired from February 18 until April 8, 2022, and its second season from January 17 to March 21, 2025. Severance has been renewed for a third season.  In February 2026, it was reported that Apple TV had acquired the intellectual property and all rights to the series from Fifth Season, with its in-house Apple Studios to become the production company for the series starting with the third season.
Severance has received critical acclaim for its cinematography, direction, production design, musical score, story, and performances. It has received numerous accolades, including 41 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, winning for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for Lower and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for Tillman. Scott's performance earned him nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award, two Television Critics Association Awards, and a Golden Globe Award, while Stiller and Erickson also received Emmy nominations for directing and writing.


