=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Valerie Thomas - Wikipedia]
She has mentored students working in summer programs at Goddard Space Flight Center. She also judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valerie_Thomas

[Black History 365: Valerie Thomas - Communities That Care Coalition]
Nov 22, 2022 · She has mentored many students working in summer programs at Goddard Space Flight Center. She also judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). These latter programs encourage minority and female students to pursue science and technology careers ...
URL: https://communitiesthatcarecoalition.com/black-history-365-valerie-thomas/

[Valerie L. Thomas, Physicist, and Inventor born - African ...]
She has mentored many students working summers at Goddard Space Flight Center and judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). These programs encourage minority and female students to pursue science and technology careers.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/valerie-l-thomas-physicist-and-inventor-born/

[Valerie Thomas - Wikiwand]
She has mentored students working in summer programs at Goddard Space Flight Center. She also judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). 15
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Valerie_Thomas

[An Interview With 78-Year-Old NASA Scientist Valerie Thomas]
I was part of creating an organization called: Humanitarian United Effort. We put together informal activities that would allow these African Americans who were ...
URL: https://www.oprahdaily.com/life/a36674183/valerie-thomas-nasa-scientist-interview/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Valerie Thomas - Wikipedia] ---
Valerie L. Thomas (born February 8, 1943) is an American data scientist and inventor. She invented the illusion transmitter, for which she received a patent in 1980. She was responsible for developing the digital media formats that image processing systems used in the early years of NASA's Landsat program.


--- [Black History 365: Valerie Thomas - Communities That Care Coalition] ---
Black History 365: Valerie Thomas We are highlighting examples of Black excellence throughout the year! Feel free to send us suggestions! Valerie L. Thomas (born February 8, 1943) is an American scientist and inventor. She invented the illusion transmitter, for which she received a patent in 1980.[2] She was responsible for developing the digital media formats image processing systems used in the early years of the Landsat program.[3] Early life and education Thomas was born in Baltimore, Maryland.[4] Coming from an adverse background, she attended Morgan State University, where she was one of two women majoring in physics.[5] Thomas excelled in her mathematics and science courses at Morgan State University and was graduated with highest honors in 1964, with a degree in physics.[6] She went on to work for NASA.[7] Career Thomas began working for NASA as a data analyst in 1964.[8][9] She developed real-time computer data systems to support satellite operations control centers (1964–1970). She oversaw the creation of the Landsat program (1970–1981), becoming an international expert in Landsat data products. Her participation in this program expanded upon the works of other NASA scientists in the pursuit of being able to visualize Earth from space.[10] In 1974, Thomas headed a team of approximately 50 people for the Large Area Crop Inventory Experiment (LACIE), a joint effort with the NASA Johnson Space Center, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. An unprecedented scientific project, LACIE demonstrated the feasibility of using space technology to automate the process of predicting wheat yield on a worldwide basis.[9] She attended an exhibition in 1976 that included an illusion of a light bulb that appeared to be lit, even though it had been removed from its socket. The illusion, which involved another light bulb and concave mirrors, inspired Thomas. Curious about how light and concave mirrors could be used in her work at NASA, she began her research in 1977. This involved creating an experiment in which she observed how the position of a concave mirror would affect the real object that is reflected. Using this technology, she would invent the illusion transmitter.[5] On October 21, 1980,[8] she obtained the patent for the illusion transmitter, a device that NASA continues to use today. Thomas worked her way up to associate chief of the Space Science Data Operations Office at NASA.[11] Thomas’s invention was depicted in a children’s fictional book, television, and video games.[citation needed] In 1985, Thomas was the NSSDC Computer Facility manager responsible for a major consolidation and reconfiguration of two previously independent computer facilities and infused them with new technology. She then served as the Space Physics Analysis Network (SPAN) project manager from 1986 to 1990 during a period when SPAN underwent a major reconfiguration and grew from a scientific network with approximately 100 computer nodes to one directly connecting approximately 2,700 computer nodes worldwide. In 1990, SPAN became a major part of NASA’s science networking and today’s Internet.[9] She also participated in projects related to Halley’s Comet, ozone research, satellite technology, and the Voyager spacecraft. She mentored countless numbers of students in the Mathematics Aerospace Research and Technology Inc. program.[12] Because of her unique career and commitment to giving something back to the community, Thomas had often spoken to groups of students from elementary school, secondary, college, and university ages, as well as adult groups. As a role model for potential young black engineers and scientists, she made hundreds of visits to schools and national meetings over the years. She has mentored many students working in summer programs at Goddard Space Flight Center. She also judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). These latter programs encourage minority and female students to pursue science and technology careers.[13] At the end of August 1995, she retired from NASA and her positions of associate chief of the NASA Space Science Data Operations Office, manager of the NASA Automated Systems Incident Response Capability, and as chair of the Space Science Data Operations Office Education Committee.[9] Valerie Thomas is credited with being the TRUE creator of the 3D imagery Retirement After retiring, Thomas served as an associate at the UMBC Center for Multicore Hybrid Productivity Research.[14] She also continued to mentor youth through the Science Mathematics Aerospace Research and Technology, Inc. and the National Technical Association.[5] Notable achievements Throughout her career, Thomas held high-level positions at NASA including heading the Large Area Crop Inventory Experiment (LACIE) collaboration between NASA, NOAA, and USDA in 1974, serving as assistant program manager for Landsat/Nimbus (1975–1976), managing the NSSDC Computer Facility (1985), managing the Space Physics Analysis Network project (1986–1990), and serving as associate chief of the Space Science Data Operations Office. She authored many scientific papers and holds a patent for the illusion transmitter. Her invention was depicted in a children’s fictional book, television, and video games.[citation needed] For her achievements, Thomas has received numerous awards including the Goddard Space Flight Center Award of Merit and the NASA Equal Opportunity Medal.[12]


--- [Valerie L. Thomas, Physicist, and Inventor born - African ...] ---
Valerie Thomas *Valerie Thomas, a Black scientist (physics) and inventor, was born on this date in 1943. Valerie L. Thomas was born in Baltimore, MD. As a child, she was interested in science after observing her father tinkering with the television and seeing the mechanical parts inside the TV. At the age of eight, she read The Boys' First Book on Electronics, which sparked her interest in a career in science. Her father would not help her with the projects in the book despite his interest in electronics. At the all-girls school she attended, she was not encouraged to pursue science and mathematics courses, though she did manage to take a physics course. Thomas did have a few STEM teachers who fought for her at a young age. She attended Morgan State University, one of two women majoring in physics. Thomas excelled in her mathematics and science courses at Morgan State University. She graduated in 1964 with a degree in physics and worked for NASA as a data analyst. She developed real-time computer data systems to support satellite operations control centers (1964–1970) and oversaw the creation of the Landsat program (1970–1981), becoming an international expert in Landsat data products. Her participation in this program expanded upon the works of other NASA scientists in the pursuit of being able to visualize Earth from space. In 1974, Thomas headed a team of approximately 50 people for the Large Area Crop Inventory Experiment (LACIE), a joint effort with NASA's Johnson Space Center, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. An unprecedented scientific project, LACIE demonstrated the feasibility of using space technology to automate predicting wheat yield worldwide. In 1976, at an exhibition that included an illusion of a light bulb from its socket. The illusion, which involved another light bulb and concave mirrors, inspired Thomas. Curious about how light and concave mirrors could be used in her work at NASA, she began her research in 1977. This involved creating an experiment in which she observed how the position of a concave mirror would affect the real object that is reflected. Using this technology, she would invent the illusion transmitter. On October 21, 1980, she obtained the patent for the illusion transmitter, U.S. patent 4229761A, which NASA uses today. As a black woman, Thomas worked her way up to associate chief of NASA's Space Science Data Operations Office. In 1985, she was the NSSDC Computer Facility manager responsible for consolidating and reconfiguring two previously independent computer facilities and infusing them with new technology. She then served as the Space Physics Analysis Network (SPAN) project manager from 1986 to 1990, when SPAN underwent a significant reconfiguration. She grew from a scientific network with about 100 computer nodes to one directly connecting about 2,700 computer nodes worldwide. In 1990, SPAN became a significant part of NASA's science networking and today's Internet. She also participated in projects related to Halley's Comet, ozone research, satellite technology, and the Voyager spacecraft. In 1995, she retired from NASA and held the positions of associate chief of NASA's Space Science Data Operations Office, the NASA Automated Systems Incident Response Capability manager, and the Space Science Data Operations Office Education Committee chair. After retiring, Thomas was an associate at the UMBC Center for Multicore Hybrid Productivity Research. She continued to mentor youth through the Science Mathematics Aerospace Research and Technology, Inc., and the National Technical Association. Thomas's invention was in children's fictional books, television, and video games. Thomas had often spoken to students from elementary school through college-/university-age and adult groups. She made many visits to schools and national meetings over the years. She has mentored many students working summers at Goddard Space Flight Center and judged at science fairs, working with organizations such as the National Technical Association (NTA) and Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). These programs encourage minority and female students to pursue science and technology careers. She authored many scientific papers and holds a patent for the illusion transmitter. Thomas has received numerous awards for her achievements, including the Goddard Space Flight Center Award of Merit and NASA's Equal Opportunity Medal. She mentored countless students in the Mathematics Aerospace Research and Technology Inc. program. In February 2020, American musician Chance the Rapper posted about Valerie Thomas on his Twitter account, referencing her development of the illusion transmitter. To Become an Environmental Scientist To Be a Physicist or Astronomer


--- [Valerie Thomas - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [An Interview With 78-Year-Old NASA Scientist Valerie Thomas] ---
As told to by Sara Bey/ Photograph by Sahar Coston-Hardy In 1995, Valerie Thomas, 78, retired as associate chief of NASA’s Space Science Data Operations Office. She invented technology that led to the development of 3-D imaging, but is most proud of the work she’s done to help fellow Black scientists—and future scientists—succeed. —as told to Sara Bey. “When I was young, TVs were much different. The TV we had was in a big box and had tubes in it that were sort of like lightbulbs. When they blew out, the TV didn’t work. When my father would open the box up, I could see these mechanical parts and the tubes, and I thought How do these mechanical parts result in an image on the screen? I never asked my father, but I was curious about that. We didn’t always have a library in my community, but when they finally opened one, I went and was looking around for some books to get, and I came across one that really captured my attention. I’m turning the pages and I can see these designs, like illustrations of actual projects you could make. I was so excited. I could not wait to get home and show it to my father so he could show me how to make these projects. The book was called The Boys First Book in Electronics. I took it home, showed it to my father, and he said ‘Oh, I can do that. I can do that, and that.’ He did not show me how to do anything. So, the book just sat until it was time to return it to the library. When I went to the library to return my books, and I was looking around for more, I came across another book that caught my attention, and I took that home. That book was called The Boys Second Book in Electronics, and the same thing happened. So, I got the indirect hint: Electronics is not for girls. Go sew with your mother, or do hair like your mother. I decided to, you know, master my sewing. I taught myself how to do hair. However, I still wanted to know about electronics. I thought maybe when I get to junior high school I’ll learn about electronics. When I got to junior high school, there were no classes on electronics. When I got to high school, there were no classes on electronics, so I sort of gave up. Then, I took a class in physics and it helped to answer the question that I always had: What makes things tick? So, in my senior year when I was trying to decide on what I wanted to major in, I figured physics would be what I need to pursue. I went to Morgan State and while I was there they started offering a new mathematics course, Abstract Algebra, that students had to get permission from the head of the department to take. First day of class, the professor was going over his lesson, and when I opened the textbook, it looked like Greek to me. The professor was going over this mathematical proof, and he says, ‘…and this is true by induction.’ My hand goes up. ‘What’s induction?’ Well, it turns out induction had several steps that if you already knew wouldn’t be put in the proof. He wrote in three additional lines explaining what induction was, and continues. Then he says, ‘…and this is intuitively clear.’ My hand goes up. ‘What’s intuitive?’ Same thing. I’m sure the other students did not understand what the professor was talking about either. They didn’t ask the question. I asked the questions. I got the answer for all of us, and it turns out I aced the course. During my senior year, recruiters came out, and I was telling them that I was going to grad school, so not one of them called me back. However, as I got closer to graduation I decided I needed to get a job instead, and I finally heard from NASA. The person asked me when did I want to start work, and I said Monday after graduation. He said, ‘Don’t you want to take a vacation first?’ I mean, I didn’t have any money for a vacation. I hadn’t even thought about a vacation. So I said "Okay, the second Monday after graduation.” And that’s when I started work at NASA as a mathematician data analyst. I felt like I had gone from one college campus to another. When I started, I had to write programs for computers—I had never seen a computer before in my life except in science fiction movies. I made a decision that I was going to learn everything I could about computers, inside and out. I always wanted to learn and figure things out myself; at NASA, I had a lot of opportunities to do that. Being in an environment where everybody’s smart was really gratifying. I enjoyed working on things that hadn’t been done before and getting to be in charge of some of those things. But I wasn’t getting promoted, and other [African Americans] were going through the same thing. So, I had to fight the good fight, in a positive way. I was part of creating an organization called: Humanitarian United Effort. We put together informal activities that would allow these African Americans who were coming in and doing a good job but were in the shadows, and high-level managers to get to know each other. I also worked with one of the higher-ups who was interested in diversity, to pull together a group representing African American women, Hispanics, people with disabilities, that would give presentations to managers on the importance of diversity. Those are soft, positive ways of addressing the issue, and they helped. I also took every opportunity I had to let young people know how important it was to take advanced mathematics courses in high school, because nobody had ever told me. So, I would go out to talk with students and sign up to be a mentor to interns. I would get some of the other employees to be mentors through all kinds of programs. I became president of the National Technical Association, which focused on helping African Americans progress in the science and technology fields. Then I went on to lead SMART which focused on education outreach about the space sciences. Now, I’m director of a chapter of Shades of Blue, which prepares young people for careers in aviation. I had not thought about my legacy before, but now as I look back on the things that I have done, I think my biggest legacy is the positive impact that I’ve had on people. I recently gave a Zoom presentation to a class at a math and science school in the Bronx. The video wasn’t working, so I could see them, but they couldn’t see me. I started telling my stories and I could see that they were doing what I did when I was growing up listening to the radio—they were visualizing in their mind and that will have a great impact on them. There was something that clicked with that presentation. That’s the kind of legacy I’m proud of. My purpose in life is to help people and cause positive things to happen. Like, now I’m helping design a science center that’s a combination space port and theme park. It’s going to have a lot of information on contributions by African Americans. It’s exciting!” About the Journalist and Photographer Turn Inspiration to Action - Consider donating to the National Association of Black Journalists. You can direct your dollars to scholarships and fellowships that support the educational and professional development of aspiring young journalists. - Support The National Caucus & Center on Black Aging. Dedicated to improving the quality of life of older African Americans, NCCBA's educational programs arm them with the tools they need to advocate for themselves. Credits: Sahar Coston-Hardy: Hasani Gabriel This story was created as part of Lift Every Voice, in partnership with Lexus. Lift Every Voice records the wisdom and life experiences of the oldest generation of Black Americans by connecting them with a new generation of Black journalists. The oral history series is running across Hearst magazine, newspaper, and television websites around Juneteenth 2021. Go to oprahdaily.com/lifteveryvoice for the complete portfolio. Shelby is the Community Manager at Oprah Daily. She acts as a liaison between the brand and the membership base, Oprah Insiders. When she's not working, she likes to travel, read, re-watch old sitcoms, and eat cinnamon-flavored treats.
