=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["Over the Top" | Regular Show Wiki | Fandom]
"Over the Top" is the twenty-first episode of Regular Show's second season (and thirty-third episode overall). It first aired on May 23, 2011. In a flashback, Skips accidentally kills Rigby during an arm-wrestling match. In the present, Skips arm-wrestles with Death to bring Rigby back to life. At the hospital, Rigby is pronounced dead by a doctor, who then covers his corpse up with a blanket ...
URL: https://regularshow.fandom.com/wiki/Over_the_Top

[Regular Show S2E22 "Over the Top" Recap - TV Tropes]
The episode flashes back to several days before to show how Rigby died. Hypocrite Has a Point: Skips beats Death by using the PlayCo Armboy after admonishing Rigby for using it.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/RegularShowS02Ep22OverTheTop

[Watch Regular Show - Season 2 • Episode 21 - Over the Top ...]
Where to watch Regular Show - Season 2 • Episode 21 - Over the Top starring J.G. Quintel, William Salyers, Mark Hamill and directed by John Infantino.
URL: https://watch.plex.tv/show/regular-show/season/2/episode/21

[Day 6 of the worst thing each character has done: Skips : r/regularshow]
Mordecai killed Rigby as well. During the "it's time" episode where he pushed rigby off in the microwave when they were moving through a ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/regularshow/comments/1aivqcy/day_6_of_the_worst_thing_each_character_has_done/

[List of Regular Show episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Regular Show episodes Regular Show is an American animated sitcom created by J. G. Quintel for Cartoon Network that aired from September 6, 2010, to January 16, 2017. The series revolves around the daily lives of two 23-year-old friends, Mordecai (a blue jay), and Rigby (a raccoon).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Regular_Show_episodes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["Over the Top" | Regular Show Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Over the Top" is the twenty-first episode of Regular Show's second season (and thirty-third episode overall). It first aired on May 23, 2011. Synopsis[] In a flashback, Skips accidentally kills Rigby during an arm-wrestling match. In the present, Skips arm-wrestles with Death to bring Rigby back to life. Plot[] At the hospital, Rigby is pronounced dead by a doctor, who then covers his corpse up with a blanket and offers his condolences to a mournful Mordecai, Benson, Pops, and Skips. Mordecai then says to Skips, spitefully, "You couldn't let it go. Well, I hope you got what you wanted," and all except Skips leave, who looks at Rigby's corpse with remorse. The episode then flashes back to a few days prior to Rigby's death at a restaurant, McHooligan's, where Benson is boasting how Skips is the strongest of all, which leads everyone challenging to arm wrestle, and to no surprise, they all lose. Rigby decides to challenge Skips, which results in laughter due to Rigby's slim to none possibility of winning, but Skips agrees anyways to humor him. However, Rigby beats Skips with complete ease and beats him again after he insists he wasn’t ready. Everyone else leaves while congratulating a smug Rigby, leaving Skips at the table shocked and speechless. The next day, after he laments about how Rigby beat him, Pops comforts Skips, telling him he just had a bad day, and to demand a rematch from Rigby. He finds Rigby with Mordecai in the living room playing video games, and after Rigby refuses a rematch and continues to mock Skips over losing, Skips breaks their console and leaves. Later at Skips' house, Mordecai, Rigby, and Benson walk in, and Benson tells Skips he has to pay for their console. Skips says he will in exchange for a rematch, telling Benson "You wouldn't understand". Rigby accepts the match but wins easily once more. When the gang decide to go back to McHooligan's, Mordecai then realizes he forgot his drink ticket and runs back to his room, where he finds Skips trashing it, looking through Rigby's stuff. After Skips laments to Mordecai over Rigby somehow being stronger than him, Mordecai decides to reveal that Rigby has been pranking him with the help of a Yoshimoto Cybernetic's PlayCo Arm Boy before leaving with his drink tickets. After looking up Playco Armboy online, which is a metal contraption worn and concealed along the arm to cheat at arm wrestling, Skips becomes furious and as a result, is more determined than ever to beat Rigby. At McHooligan's, Skips enters and silently challenges Rigby, who smugly agrees, boasting about his strength again. However, Skips instead rips off Rigby's PlayCo Armboy in front of everyone. He then arm wrestles a nervous Rigby, now without the PlayCo Armboy, and smashes him against the table hard enough it breaks in two, killing him. Back in the present in the hospital room, Skips apologizes to Rigby for killing him. Death then enters, and Skips makes a deal with him to arm wrestle to bring Rigby back, wagering his own immortal soul if he were to lose (something Death has been after for years), but if he won, Rigby would be brought back to life. After a long struggle between the two during the match, Skips ends up winning, thanks to Playco Armboy, thereby getting Rigby's soul back. Death keeps his promise but swears he will get Skip's soul one day, and hawks a loogie into Rigby's mouth, resurrecting him as he leaves on his motorcycle. Skips apologizes to Rigby for what happened, which Rigby accepts and forgives him for. He also states that he's impressed at Skips for using the PlayCo Armboy to cheat death. They have a laugh over it, but Skips seriously tells Rigby he shouldn’t cheat, and he only did it to save his life. The episode ends with Rigby suggesting to Skips that the two should prank the rest of the gang since they all currently think he’s still dead, but Skips says he thinks he’s done with pranks for a while. Characters[] - Skips - Rigby - Mordecai - Benson - Pops - Muscle Man - Hi Five Ghost - Death - Doctor - Ghost Referee Locations[] - Park - McHooligan's - The Hospital Video[] Trivia[] Pop Culture References[] - The title of the episode is a reference to the 1987 movie classic Over the Top starring Sylvester Stallone as a truck-driving single father who enters an arm-wrestling contest to win a new truck. - When Mordecai and Rigby are playing their guitar video game, Mordecai instructs Rigby to use the combination 'Up, Up, Down, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right', this is the first half of the famous Konami Code. - It is interesting to note that, on the Regular Show: The Complete First and Second Seasons DVD, on the main menu of Disc 1, this code works if performed with a DVD remote. Episode Connections[] - This is the third time Rigby has been killed and resurrected, and the second time another main character has killed him. - The first was by Mordecai in "It's Time", the second was by Snowballs the Ice Monster in "Appreciation Day". - This is the first appearance of Death. Production Notes[] - This episode received 1.957 million views worldwide. Goofs[] - Muscle Man and Hi Five Ghost disappear when Skips smashes Rigby into the table. - They are additionally not seen in the hospital at the beginning of the episode before the flashback. - Pops is not sitting next to Benson when he's talking about how strong Skips is. - The TV screen is turned off when Skips grabs Mordecai and Rigby's console and throws it. - The crack on the wall made by Skips throwing the console changes when Skips leaves. - When Skips is searching Mordecai and Rigby's room, the items on the floor change throughout the scene. - Even though Skips pulled the Playco Armboy off of Rigby's arm, no scene previous contains Rigby wearing the Playco Armboy. Alternate Versions[] UK[] - The first scene of the episode was cut and instead shows the McHooligans Restaurant. - The word "McHooligan's" is blanked out. - Muscle Man saying: "Oh yeah! Hooligan's round two!" is changed to "Alright! Family Restaurant round two!" - High-Five Ghost saying "Shotgun!" was muted. - Death spitting in Rigby's mouth to revive him was changed to him shooting a laser from his finger. Official Releases[] - On iTunes and Amazon Prime, the episode was paired with "Really Real Wrestling" under "Volume Three". It was released digitally on May 30, 2011 for the price of $2.99 in HD, or $1.99 in SD. - This episode is available as part of the following DVD sets: - The Complete First and Second Seasons - Special Features: - Commentary - The Complete First and Second Seasons


--- [Regular Show S2E22 "Over the Top" Recap - TV Tropes] ---
Written by Benton Connor & Calvin Wong Rigby resorts to cheating to defeat Skips in an arm-wrestling match, but his actions backfire spectacularly when Skips, in a fit of rage, accidentally kills him. Now, Skips is faced with an impossible task: he must arm-wrestle Death himself to retrieve Rigby’s soul. This episode provides examples of: - Absurdly High-Stakes Game: Arm wrestling for Rigby's soul. - Accidental Murder: When Skips finally arm wrestles Rigby without the Armboy, he smashes him through the table. Seeing as how the table is very solid, Skips is very strong, and Rigby is very tiny, Rigby does not survive. He gets better. - Asymmetrically Jacked: Death is shown to have a comically muscular right arm while his left arm is relatively normal. This is apparently due to training his right arm specifically to beat his arch nemesis, Skips, at arm wrestling. - Bowdlerization: In the UK, the following scenes are edited/altered: - The beginning, where Benson, Mordecai, Pops, and Skips are in the hospital as Rigby is pronounced dead, was cut. - The restaurant “McHooligan’s” had its digital sign removed in the UK because the term “hooligan” is often associated with causing violence during soccer games. The restaurant owners wanted to avoid condoning or glorifying violence. In addition, Muscle Man’s signature phrase “Ah yeah! McHooligan’s, round two!” was changed to “All right! Family restaurant, round two!” - High Five Ghost’s yell of “Shotgun!” was muted as he and Muscle Man slid down the house’s banister to reach the cart. - Rigby was revived by shooting a beam of light at him with his finger instead of having Death spit in his mouth. - Bread, Eggs, Milk, Squick: The steps to using the PlayCo Armboy: 1) Put on the PlayCo Armboy. 2) Conceal the PlayCo Armboy. And 3) Sign the official PlayCo Armboy waiver. - Break the Haughty: Happens to Rigby after Skips yanks the PlayCo Armboy out of his body. - Bullying a Dragon: Rigby for playing with Skips' emotions through the arm-wrestle cheating equipment. - Cheaters Never Prosper: Zig-Zagged. Rigby cheats against Skips in an arm wrestling contest with a PlayCo Armboy and once outed gets fatally smashed through a table for his troubles, but then later in the episode Skips uses the Armboy to defeat Death in an arm wrestling competition for Rigby's soul. Then he explains to Rigby that he shouldn't cheat and that he only resorted to using an Armboy against Death to save Rigby's life. - Chekhov's Gun: The "PlayCo Armboy" that Rigby used to beat Skips is later used by Skips to beat Death. - Chess with Death: Well, arm wresting with Death to get Rigby's soul back. - Did You Just Scam Cthulhu?: Skips beats Death the same way Rigby beats Skips which means Skips literally cheated Death. - Do Not Taunt Cthulhu: Rigby learns this the hard way after beating Skips at arm wrestling through cheating with the PlayCo Armboy. - Downer Beginning: The episode begins with Rigby being pronounced dead at the hospital, with Skips somehow being responsible. The rest of the episode is spent how it got to this point. - Disproportionate Retribution: Skips is so enraged by Rigby cheating to beat him and gloating about it that, after removing Rigby's edge, he starts the arm wrestling match by outright slamming him through the table. This ends up killing Rigby, whereby Skips feels intense remorse. - Everyone Has Standards: Benson, who can be a harsh boss at times, is quite surprised and taken aback at Skips being so obsessed and sore over Rigby beating the latter at arm wrestling that Skips destroyed his and Mordecai's gaming console. - Eye Twitch: Skips gets one when the sees the ad for "PlayCo Armboy" and realizes that Rigby has been cheating to beat him. - Foreshadowing: When Skips destroys Mordecai and Rigby's game console because Rigby refuses to rematch him and continues to mock him over his loss, Mordecai gets mad but instead of directing his anger and attention at Skips for overreacting, glares at Rigby instead. Turns out Rigby cheated and Mordecai knew it. - How We Got Here: The episode starts with showing Rigby dead and everyone else sad, then Mordecai blames Skips for what happened and everyone else leaves. The episode flashes back to several days before to show how Rigby died. - Hypocrite Has a Point: Skips beats Death by using the PlayCo Armboy after admonishing Rigby for using it. He later points out to Rigby that he only used it because both of their lives were at stake. - Hypocritical Humor: Everybody laughs when Rigby challenges Skips to an arm wrestle, even though every one of them just lost to Skips. If nobody stood a chance against him, Rigby especially doesn't. - I Gave My Word: Despite being furious that he lost his arm wrestling match against Skips and failing to claim his soul in the process, Death does honor his deal with Skips and brings Rigby back to life. - Ironic Echo: Skips repeats Mordecai's line in the second act ("Two words: PlayCo Armboy") as he arm wrestles Death. - Jerkass Ball: Rigby decides to taunt Skips, constantly rubbing his victory in Skips' face after defeating him in arm wrestling (by cheating). Rigby ends up paying for this, though. - Jerkass Realization: Implied. Rigby doesn't hold it against Skips for accidentally killing him, possibly because he realized he wasn't innocent either with his cheating and constant mockery. - My God, What Have I Done?: Skips is genuinely distraught over accidentally killing Rigby in a fit of rage. - Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!: Thanks to Mordecai admitting to Skips of the "PlayCo Armboy" prank, this is how he kills Rigby. - Oh, Crap!: Rigby has this reaction when Skips removes the PlayCo Armboy during the rematch. - OOC Is Serious Business: After learning the truth about Rigby pranking him and training for his rematch, just before Skips leaves, he destroys his punching bag with one punch and starts walking out. - Rage Breaking Point: Skips loses it upon finding out that Rigby has been cheating at him in arm wrestling with PlayCo Armboy. - Shout-Out: - The episode's title references a Sylvester Stallone film of the same name that is also about arm wrestling. - Death saying "Your soul is mine!" is likely a reference to Shang Tsung from Mortal Kombat, especially Mortal Kombat: The Movie, with streams of soul energy coming from his eyes. - Smug Snake: Rigby becomes overly confident when he beats Skips thrice in arm wrestling and thinks he can reign his superiority over him, but as soon as Skips takes off his only means of winning when he challenges him for the fourth time, Rigby instantly loses his smugness and becomes nervous. - Sore Loser: Skips, who is usually a mature Nice Guy, becomes extremely temperamental after getting beaten by Rigby, tossing his game console at the wall when he was refused a rematch and later trashing his room trying to find out how he got so strong. And while he didn't mean to kill Rigby for cheating, he was very obviously trying to seriously hurt him. - Take Me Instead: Skips demands that regardless of the outcome of the arm wrestle match between him and Death, Rigby is brought back to life and should Skips lose, it is Skips himself that will take Rigby's place. - This Cannot Be!: Death declares "this can't be!" in shock after he loses the arm wrestling match to Skips. - This Is Gonna Suck: When Skips arrives for another rematch with Rigby he tears off the "PlayCo Armboy" so Rigby can't cheat. Rigby visibly sweats and shakes as he gives Skips his arm. - Too Dumb to Live: Rigby messing with Skips was a terrible idea, as this gets him killed. - Tranquil Fury: Skips is (understandably) furious upon discovering Rigby's deception, yet he doesn't utter a single word, even as he outright slams Rigby through the table. - Turn the Other Cheek: Rigby quickly forgives Skips after he apologizes for accidentally killing him. - Unsportsmanlike Gloating: Rigby belittles Skips when the latter keeps losing to him in arm wrestling. However, when Skips finds out he cheated and rips out the PlayCo Armboy from his body, Rigby immediately loses his overconfidence and becomes terrified. - We Will Meet Again: After Skips beats Death, Death returns Rigby's soul but vows that some day he will possess Skips' immortal soul. - What the Hell, Hero?: - Mordecai gives this to Skips at the beginning of the episode after killing Rigby.Mordecai: (to Skips) You couldn't let it go. Well, I hope you got what you wanted. - When confronting Skips on breaking Mordecai and Rigby’s game console, Benson is surprised that Skips is acting like this over being refused a rematch. - Mordecai gives this to Skips at the beginning of the episode after killing Rigby. - Your Soul Is Mine!: Death says this in verbatim as he draws close to beating Skips in arm wrestling and claiming his immortal soul.


--- [Watch Regular Show - Season 2 • Episode 21 - Over the Top ...] ---
Find Movies & TV Live TV On Demand Discover Explore Movies & TV Shows Most Popular Leaving Soon Explore Browse Channels Featured Channels My Media Watchlist Sign In Regular Show Over the Top Directed by John Infantino TV-PG S2 • E21 May 23, 2011 11m 9.1 8.4 Add Show to Watchlist Skips accidentally kills Rigby while arm wrestling and fights Death to get him back. More Where to Watch Regular Show - S2 • E21 There are no locations currently available for this title Cast of Over the Top J.G. Quintel Mordecai / Hi Five Ghost (voice) William Salyers Rigby (voice) Mark Hamill Skips (voice) Sam Marin Benson / Pops / Muscle Man (voice) Roger Craig Smith Announcer / Doctor (voice) Julian Holloway Death / Dad (voice) Benton Connor Writer Calvin Wong Writer Take Plex everywhere Watch free anytime, anywhere, on almost any device. See the full list of supported devices Home Live TV On Demand Discover Categories Action Animation Comedy Crime Documentary Drama En Español Horror Music Romance Sci-Fi Thriller Western Descriptive Audio Cricket Gold Bloomberg TV Million Dollar Dream Home Categories Hit TV Drama TV Movies True Crime News Sports Reality Classics Sci-Fi & Action Chills & Thrills Comedy Daytime TV Game Shows Nature & Travel History & Science Food & Home Lifestyle Kids & Family En Español International Anime+ Music


--- [Day 6 of the worst thing each character has done: Skips : r/regularshow] ---
Day 6 of the worst thing each character has done: Skips The most upvoted comment wins. Honorable mention for Benson: Eating TBBitW and selling the stick hockey table The most upvoted comment wins. Honorable mention for Benson: Eating TBBitW and selling the stick hockey table


--- [List of Regular Show episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Regular Show is an American animated sitcom created by J. G. Quintel for Cartoon Network that aired from September 6, 2010, to January 16, 2017. The series revolves around the daily lives of two 23-year-old friends, Mordecai (a blue jay), and Rigby (a raccoon). They work as groundskeepers at a park, and spend their days trying to slack off and entertain themselves by any means. This is much to the chagrin of their boss Benson (a gumball machine) and their coworker Skips (a yeti), but to the delight of park owner Mr. Maellard's son Pops (a man with a lollipop-shaped head). Their other coworkers, Muscle Man (an overweight green man) and Hi-Five Ghost (a ghost with a hand extending from the top of his head) serve as their rivals.
Quintel initially worked as a writer and staff director for the Cartoon Network series Camp Lazlo and The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack before he was offered to produce a short for the network's showcase project The Cartoonstitute. Quintel developed the Regular Show pilot for the project, utilizing characters from his California Institute of the Arts student films The Naïve Man from Lolliland (2005) and 2 in the AM PM (2006). While The Cartoonstitute was ultimately scrapped, Cartoon Network executives approved the production of Regular Show, starting with its first season. Its first two seasons were rating successes, with Nielsen Media Research ranking the series at number one in its time period amongst its primary demographic. As of May 2013, the program averages approximately 2 to 2.5 million viewers each week.
Regular Show received positive reviews from critics and has been noted for its appeal towards different age groups, simplistic animation style, and frequent references to 1980s popular culture. It has attained four Primetime Emmy Award nominations, including a win in the Short-format Animation category for the 2012 third season episode "Eggscellent". The series has also been nominated for two Annie Awards, as well as three BAFTA Children's Awards. The eighth and final season was announced by Cartoon Network on July 7, 2015. A film adaptation based on the series, titled Regular Show: The Movie, premiered on November 25, 2015. After eight seasons and 244 episodes, Regular Show concluded on January 16, 2017, with the 33-minute finale "A Regular Epic Final Battle".
On June 12, 2024, Warner Bros. Discovery announced that a new series featuring some characters from Regular Show had been greenlit, with Quintel returning as showrunner.
