=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Johnny Damon - Wikipedia]
Johnny David Damon (born November 5, 1973) [1] is an American former professional baseball outfielder who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1995 to 2012.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johnny_Damon

[Johnny Damon Birthday - National Today]
He played baseball in the South Orange Little League and the Walker Jr. High baseball team as a child. Later, he attended Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando, where he was rated the top high school prospect in the country by “Baseball America.”
URL: https://nationaltoday.com/birthday/johnny-damon/

[Reliving Johnny Damon's days as a proud Kansas City Royal and new ...]
Jun 10, 2015 — She also influenced Damon to stop playing football. He heeded Angie's call, and focused all his energies into becoming a great baseball player.
URL: http://davidgarfieldshoopheaven.blogspot.com/2015/06/reliving-johnny-damons-days-as-proud.html

[Johnny Damon Net Worth]
He started playing baseball in Little League and continued playing at Walker Junior High before attending Dr. Phillips High School as a senior. There, he ...
URL: https://www.celebritynetworth.com/richest-athletes/richest-baseball/johnny-damon-net-worth/

[MLB's Johnny Damon boosts Boys & Girls Club with foundation check]
Oct 18, 2017 — Damon, 43, started playing Little League baseball when he was 6. His skills improved the more he played with the older, talented players, he ...
URL: https://www.orangeobserver.com/news/2017/oct/18/mlbs-johnny-damon-boosts-boys-and-girls-club-with-foundation-check/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Johnny Damon - Wikipedia] ---
Johnny David Damon (born November 5, 1973) is an American former professional baseball outfielder who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1995 to 2012. During his MLB career, Damon played for the Kansas City Royals (1995–2000), Oakland Athletics (2001), Boston Red Sox (2002–2005), New York Yankees (2006–2009), Detroit Tigers (2010), Tampa Bay Rays (2011) and Cleveland Indians (2012). He also played for the Thailand national baseball team and was a member of the squad for the 2013 World Baseball Classic qualifiers.




--- [Johnny Damon Birthday - National Today] ---
Johnny Damon, born November 5, 1973, is an actor, former professional baseball outfielder, and reality television star. He is known for starring in “Fever Pitch” and appearing in “The Bros.” He had a fantastic baseball career and was one of the highest-paid baseball players in his prime. He has appeared on several reality television shows like “Celebrity Apprentice,” “Dancing with the Stars,” “Tanked,” “M.T.V. Cribs,” and “Below Deck Mediterranean.” Damon has had a fine career, and we are happy to celebrate his special day here. Fast Facts Full Name: Johnny David Damon Nickname: The Caveman Birth date: November 5, 1973 Age: 52 Zodiac Sign: Scorpio Height: 6' 2" Relationship Status: Married Net Worth: $40 million Background Johnny David Damon had a reputation for being an extremely effective baseball hitter. He had keen bat control in his prime and got more hits than other players except for Ichiro. Damon was born on November 5, 1973, in Fort Riley of Geary and Riley counties, Kansas. He has Thai, Croatian, and Irish ancestry. His parents are Yome Damon and Jimmy Damon. Damon’s father served in the Army, and that means the family had to move often. After his father left the Army, the family settled in Orlando, Florida. He played baseball in the South Orange Little League and the Walker Jr. High baseball team as a child. Later, he attended Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando, where he was rated the top high school prospect in the country by “Baseball America.” He also played football and athletics in high school. Coincidentally, he played against Warren Sapp in a high school football game, and the latter gave him the first concussion of his life. The Kansas City Royals drafted Damon in 1992 but sent him to the minor leagues. He made his Major League Baseball debut with them in 1995 and remained with the team till 2001 when he moved to Oakland Athletics. He spent a season there and headed to Boston Red Sox in 2002. Damon’s journey with the Boston Red Sox was profitable, as he helped win the World Series in 2004 while setting many personal records. He left the Boston Red Sox in December 2005 to join the New York Yankees. He spent the next three years with them and won the second World Series of his career. He left the Yankees in 2010 for the Detroit Tigers. He played his final M.L.B. game for the Cleveland Indians in 2012. Career timeline Johnny Damon plays his first M.L.B. game with the Kansas City Royals. After playing for the Kansas City Royals in the M.L.B. for five years, Damon leaves for the Oakland Athletics. Damon joins the Boston Red Sox from Oakland Athletics. Damon helps break the 86-year Red Sox "Curse of the Bambino" by winning the World Series. Damon plays his final game with the Cleveland Indians and retires. Why We Love Johnny Damon Damon advocates for injured service workers Johnny Damon supports the Wounded Warrior Project, which raises funds for injured servicemen and women. He cares deeply about the welfare of these people who have served the public in their prime. He loves to help others Damon set up the Johnny Damon Foundation to help the less privileged members of society. He also participates in fundraiser events championed by other people. Damon spreads happiness Damon and his wife started a Christmas caroling challenge to spread music, laughter, and good energy during the holidays. He surprised a few houses with no idea he was coming, and they were happy with the pleasant surprise. 5 Surprising Facts Damon owns a beverage line Johnny Damon owns A-Game, a line of sports drinks. His favorite tequila brand Damon is a big fan of Tequila Avion and says the drink is responsible for the conception of his fifth daughter. He has a favorite tree Damon loves the outdoors, and his favorite tree is the Yellow Tabebuia. Damon's favorite past time Damon enjoys playing Golf with his wife while his children tag along. Damon's favorite teammate Damon's favorite teammates over his career are Jermaine Dye, Mike Sweeney, and Jason Giambi. Johnny Damon FAQs Does Johnny Damon have a son? Yes, Damon has a son. His son’s name is Jackson. Who is Johnny Damon's former wife? Damon’s former wife is Angela Vannice. She was his high school sweetheart. How many kids do Johnny Damon and his wife have? Damon and his wife have six children together. They have five daughters and a son. Johnny Damon’s birthday dates | Year | Date | Day | |---|---|---| | 2026 | November 5 | Thursday | | 2027 | November 5 | Friday | | 2028 | November 5 | Sunday | | 2029 | November 5 | Monday | | 2030 | November 5 | Tuesday |


--- [Reliving Johnny Damon's days as a proud Kansas City Royal and new ...] ---
As the Royals’ feature writer at the time for Kansas City Sports & Fitness Magazine, my publisher told me I could go deep and make this Sept. 1999 story on Damon over 2,000 words. I was thrilled since I loved long-form journalism. Before I met with Damon for our interview, I read many magazines and all of his clippings the Royals’ media relations office gave me. Many kudos to the Royals for helping this young writer at the time. In fact, they were always very kind to me that season I covered them and always helped me with whatever I needed. I eventually met with Damon while the Royals were finishing up another putrid season in the dog days of summer. It was an appropriate day to interview him since the first 10,000 fans 14-and-under received a Johnny Damon Life-Size poster that game at Kauffman Stadium against Tampa Bay. We had a roughly 30-minute interview by his clubhouse locker as one of our magazine photographers took pictures. It was a very deep and personal interview with Johnny telling me about his relationship with his childhood sweetheart and then-wife Angie Vannice, his lovely twins, and how happy and proud he was of being a father. He also spoke of giving back to the community, of comparisons to him and Hall of Famer George Brett, meeting Cal Ripken as a kid, and his childhood days playing baseball. It was the kind of interview and story I dreamed about, of an introspective athlete giving thoughtful and heartfelt answers to deep questions. I still remember my first question to Johnny that day: "What were some of the significant events growing up that helped shape you as a person or player?" That question went straight to his heart, as he opened up about his first date with Angie, their relationship, and being a new father. A lot has changed with Johnny Damon since that interview. He divorced Angie three years later in 2002, while marrying Michelle Mangan in 2004. Johnny and Michelle now have seven kids together. Some other things have changed. Playing in virtual obscurity in Kansas City from 1995-2000, Johnny became a national baseball celebrity with the Boston Red Sox (where he wrote a book and won a World Series in 2004) and with the New York Yankees, where he won another World Series in 2008. Johnny has also played with Oakland (before joining Boston), Detroit, Tampa Bay, Cleveland, and even the Thailand National Baseball team. He last played in the majors on Aug. 1, 2012 at age 38 against, coincidentally, the Royals. Johnny went hitless in four at-bats, but after the game, I’m sure he got unconditional love from his kids, just how he did the night before our interview in 1999 when he went 0-for-5. While he’s never officially announced his retirement, Johnny had a great career since his major league debut on Aug. 12 (my birthday), 1995. He played 18 years in 2,490 games with a career batting average of .284. Johnny also amassed 2,769 hits (No. 52 all time), 408 stolen bases, 235 home runs and 522 doubles. According to baseballreference.com, Johnny made an astounding $111,689,000 during his career. Here is that story about Damon from 16 years ago, one of the most memorable sports features I’ve ever written. Johnny Damon’s life changed forever when he first met Angie Vannice on April 18, 1989. Just a bright-eyed 15-year-old, Damon realized it was time to settle down. The two began dating and fell in love. “We both knew that we were going to be together,” Damon said. “The rest is history.” While Johnny and Angie were married on Dec. 18, 1992, their first date wasn’t exactly magical. The star Kansas City Royals outfielder laughs when recalling the scene. “I got her in trouble,” Damon said. “Her dad was going to pick her up at Universal Studios. She had a dance practice and wasn’t there. She was out with me. She came out to one of my track meets, and I was driving. She was scared to death. I was 15 at the time driving my mom’s car.” Damon, who actually started driving when he was 12, got Angie home that night safely and eventually won over her father’s approval. He now has his wife to thank for providing him with a positive and stabilizing influence during his teenage years. Angie taught him that he “didn’t have to go to parties and meet a new girlfriend or anything.” She also influenced Damon to stop playing football. He heeded Angie’s call, and focused all his energies into becoming a great baseball player. As a senior at Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando, Fla., Damon was regarded as the best player in the country. He also played on a powerhouse club. When Damon stepped to the plate that year, the public address announcer would say: “Now batting for the number one team in the nation, the number one player in the nation, Johnny Damon.” A hometown hero and legend was born. When Damon wasn’t terrorizing opposing teams with his bat and speed, he spent time signing autographs with a smile. “I’ve always had a good backing,” Damon said. “It’s a great feeling knowing you have touched people’s lives.” He now feels blessed to be touching the lives of his own children — Madelyn Layne and Jackson Scott. The twins were born this past year on April 22. Now, almost four months later, Damon sits by his clubhouse locker and talks thoughtfully and passionately about the demands of balancing baseball and fatherhood. It’s 11:15 a.m. and about two hours before the Royals host the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Damon, who arrived at Kauffman Stadium at 10:30, has just returned from loosening up his aching muscles and joints in the jacuzzi. While Damon went 0-for-5 last night in a loss to Tampa Bay, he’s feeling lucky today knowing the first 10,000 fans 14-and-under receive a Johnny Damon Life-Size poster. He actually feels lucky every day playing in Kansas City and being with his wife and twins. Damon loves the fact that the young Royals' fans and his own kids accept him unconditionally, regardless if he goes 0-for-5 or 5-for-5. He describes what transpired when he returned home from Kauffman Stadium last night at 11. “I obviously didn’t have a good game,” said Damon, who cools off and takes a sip of Pepsi. “When you go home, you got to put on your number one parent face. They gave me a big smile that can light up the room. It’s a great feeling knowing that there are more important things out there than the game of baseball, and they show that to me every time I come up to see them.” Damon said he and Angie then gave the twins their feeding and put them to bed. The babies slept through the night, and woke up at 8 a.m. “They’re very good kids,” Damon said fondly. “My wife’s got the next feeding, and that’s probably going on right now. They’re the best thing that’s ever happened to me. Being able to see the little version of you is definitely real. My son is exactly like me and my daughter is exactly like my wife. It’s very comfortable to know that these little things rely on you so much.” How about his most memorable occasion to date as a father? “When they started laughing,” Damon answered. “That’s the biggest moment because you know they’re happy at that time. They seem to be doing that all the time.” Soon, Damon politely excuses himself and says he has to take batting practice. He returns in 15 minutes. Damon is now the center of attention, as a carton full of his posters sits in the middle of the clubhouse. His teammates can’t resist having some good-natured fun. Jermaine Dye grabs four posters and throws them over to Damon, while Jeremy Giambi asks: “Johnny, can I have your autograph?” Damon smiles and chuckles. He now unrolls the poster and notices some “controversy.” It seems Damon (6-2) is pictured in the poster with a glass of milk in his hands standing at a mere 6-feet. The caption reads: “Milk, the number one sports drink for Johnny Damon and you.” “They have me two inches shorter,” Damon shrugs. Nobody has ever really sold Johnny Damon short as a baseball player or a human being. He has been a giant in the community since beginning his career in Kansas City four years ago. Damon feels a responsibility as a professional athlete to give back to the needy and be a role model for children. He is currently involved in numerous charities, including serving as a spokesperson for the Muscular Dystrophy Association and co-chairman of the Medical Center of Independence Benefit Golf Classic. Damon’s selfless spirit made him the 1998 Royals/True Value Hardware Roberto Clemente Man of the Year nominee for outstanding service to his team and the community. He was also nominated for the 1998 Branch Rickey Award, which honors the Major League baseball player who best personifies “Service Above Self.” Damon’s voice now softens as he speaks about the one cause most dear to him — MDA. He says he grew up with a friend who had muscular dystrophy. While his friend is still confined to a wheelchair, Damon continues his fight against the disease by doing public service announcements and fundraising. “I do my fair share,” Damon said, “but, of course, you wish you could do more. You wish you could get in the lab and find a cure for the disease.” A sensitive and compassionate person, Damon is always reaching out to others. He described the emotional feeling he receives supporting the Wyandotte Sheriff’s Department Victims of Crime Program, which offers counseling and companionship to area youngsters who have been victims of various types of crimes. Damon, along with Frank White, George Brett and Sluggerrr (Royals' mascot), visit these children and give them hope. “Many of them haven’t smiled in a couple of years,” said Damon, rubbing his eyes. “When they see us, we tend to bring a smile to their face. It’s definitely a great moment. A lot of them, their parents got killed. It’s real devastating the stories you hear. It seems like each story just crushes you.” Asked where he received his giving roots, Damon is quick to credit his parents. “My father was in the Army,” Damon said. “He served our country — the greatest achievement you could have.” Jimmy Damon was an Army staff sergeant in Thailand when he met his future wife, Yome. A few years later, Johnny was born in Fort Riley, Kan. Located just about two hours west of Kauffman Stadium, Johnny Damon was destined to be a Kansas City Royal. The military family, which also included Johnny’s older brother, James, moved to Okinawa, Japan, Clarksville, Tenn., and finally to Orlando. Damon grew up idolizing James, who was always the best athlete on the block. Johnny wasn’t so bad either, showing remarkable power as a 6-year-old playing T-Ball in Tennessee. He liked all sports through the years, including track, soccer and football. Baseball, though, was always his first love. He honed his skills as a teenager living in a “middle class area” in Orlando with a “bunch of tough kids who would stay out all night and play baseball until the sun came down.” “We were all pretty good ballplayers,” Damon said. “We had tons of fun running around the neighborhood. We’d run into trees. That gave us toughness. I just think my childhood was so good. My parents let me be free in whatever I did. I was able to skip days of school to hang out with my parents and my brother as long as I got good grades. I got straight A’s in high school, so I skipped a lot more days than I should have,” he said, smiling. Damon certainly hasn’t skipped many days on the baseball field. In fact, he recently surpassed Hal McRae and became the Royals’ all-time endurance king when he played in his 264th consecutive game on July 31 against the Texas Rangers. It has indeed been an interesting journey for Damon since his debut in Kansas City on August 12, 1995. Fresh from Double-A in Wichita, the young phenom started that night in center field against Seattle. All Damon did was collect three hits, one run, and one RBI. “My heart was racing a 100 miles an hour,” he said. “It was non stop. It took a couple of days to come down to earth. That’s a day I’ll always remember.” Damon didn’t stop there, hitting safely in his next seven games. He finished the season playing in 47 games and batting .282. Arguably the most hyped Royals' player since rookie Clint Hurdle graced the cover of Sports Illustrated on March 20, 1978, Damon was hailed as the team’s savior and the “next George Brett.” Although Damon has produced consistent numbers the past four years (he was hitting a career .275 coming into the season), they are certainly not superstar statistics. The hype has now finally died, and Damon is thriving. Despite a rough early season, he’s having his best year in the majors and hitting around .300. So what about those early comparisons to Brett? “I mean I never wanted to be George Brett,” he said. “I only wanted to be Johnny Damon. That’s where my identity is now. George and I are different players. He was a third baseman and I’m an outfielder. I guess we’ll leave it at that.” Damon said he pushes himself daily to reach his potential. Even in the dog days of summer with the Royals well below .500, he and his teammates continue coming to the park with a purpose. “It’s too far in the season to just quit and not strive to be the best that we can be,” Damon said. “All we have to do is go out there and gut it out, just show the fans that we’re still out there playing hard. Granted, we do have a lot of guys who are tired. It’s been a roller coaster ride all year, but there’s nothing better that we’d like to do than play baseball.” As for today’s game against Tampa Bay, Damon is eager to play baseball and give the fans something to remember. “It’s going to be a good day,” he said. “Hopefully, the kids will put it (poster) on the wall for a very long time and not play darts with my picture. They can measure their growth progress. It’s exciting. Hopefully, I’ll got out there and steal some bases and make this an even more special day.” Game time nears as Royals' public address announcer Dan Hurst introduces the home team’s starting lineup: “Batting first, playing left field, Johnny Damon. Honorary left fielder is Alex Martinez.” Damon and the boy run out onto the field. The Royals' star now kneels down and signs a baseball for Alex. As all the Royals and honorary players are finally introduced, Damon trots back to the dugout and high fives Sluggerrr. He waves to fans and signs more autographs for kids in the stands. Damon has always had time for the fans. After all, he vividly remembers the day as a child when he met Cal Ripken during spring training at Tinker Field in Orlando. “He took time out to sign autographs,” Damon said. “That was definitely a thrill to meet him. It’s hard to believe that 20 years down the road that he still takes the time to sign autographs for fans. It leaves a special mark, especially with a young kid like me at the time.” Coincidentally, some people in baseball said Damon would eventually inherit Ripken’s role as the industry’s ambassador when he arrived in the majors. While he probably won’t ever break Ripken’s all-time record for consecutive games played (2,632), Damon is definitely leaving his own mark with the next generation. Both children and even adults alike appreciate Damon’s generosity and humble nature. Royals' scouting director Art Stewart paid Damon perhaps the ultimate compliment when he told USA Today Baseball Weekly in 1996: “If I had a son, I’d want him to be like Johnny.” Kansas City’s own Johnny David Damon had a hit and scored one run this afternoon against Tampa Bay. While the Royals lost 5-3, Damon knows his wife and kids will welcome him with open arms when he returns home. “Having twins is supposed to be a hard thing to do, but we’re having fun with it,” he said. “We’re winging it and whatever happens, happens. That’s the way we both approach life. ... I’ve always been one of those guys way out of this planet as far as the way I think. I always think you got to have fun. Just live life and be happy with whatever you’re given.”


--- [Johnny Damon Net Worth] ---
What is Johnny Damon's net worth and salary? Johnny Damon is an American professional baseball player who has a net worth of $60 million. With a career spanning 18 seasons, Johnny Damon played for several teams, most notably the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees, becoming a pivotal figure in one of sports' greatest rivalries. Damon's career began with the Kansas City Royals in 1995, where his speed and hitting prowess quickly made him a standout player. His ability to hit for average and power, combined with exceptional base-running skills, set him apart. In 2001, he signed with the Oakland Athletics, contributing significantly to their success. However, it was his time with the Boston Red Sox, starting in 2002, that defined his legacy. Damon was a key player in the historic 2004 team that broke the 'Curse of the Bambino', helping the Red Sox win their first World Series in 86 years. His grand slam in Game 7 of the 2004 ALCS remains a highlight of his career. In a surprising move, Damon signed with the New York Yankees in 2006, further entrenching his status in MLB lore. He won another World Series with the Yankees in 2009, showcasing his clutch hitting and smart play. Throughout his career, Damon was known for his charismatic personality and distinctive long-haired appearance, making him a fan favorite. He finished his career with over 2,700 hits, a testament to his consistency and talent. Career Earnings During his career, Johnny Damon earned $110 million in salary alone before taxes. He earned an additional $10 million from endorsements, again before taxes and various other fees. Early Life Damon was born on November 5, 1973, at Fort Riley, a U.S. Army post in Kansas, as his father, Jimmy Damon, was an Army staff sergeant. His mother, Yome, is from Thailand originally and met Jimmy while he was stationed in Thailand. During the early years of his life, Damon moved frequently due to his father's job and lived in Japan and Germany before settling in Orlando, Florida just before Damon began school. Damon struggled with a stutter throughout much of his childhood and attended speech therapy. He started playing baseball in Little League and continued playing at Walker Junior High before attending Dr. Phillips High School as a senior. There, he was rated the top high school prospect by Baseball America in the country in 1992. The same year he was also named the Florida Gatorade Payer of the Year and was named to USA Today's High School All-American team. Damon wasn't exclusively focused on baseball, however, also running track and playing football while in high school. Professional Career Damon was drafted by the Kansas City Royals in the 1992 draft, the 35th overall pick in the first round. However, he first started playing in the minor league with the Wichita Wranglers and didn't make his MLB debut with the Royals until 1995. He played for the Royals from 1995 to 2000, leading the American League during the 2000 season in runs and stolen bases. In 2001, Damon was traded to the Oakland Athletics, where he spent one season before signing a four-year $31 million contract with the Boston Red Sox in late 2001. He led the American League in infield hits and helped the Red Sox win their first World Series championship since 1918 in the 2004 season. From the 2002 through the 2005 seasons, Damon's time with the Red Sox was largely successful and He also became a fan favorite in Boston, as the fans selected him in the American League's All-Star Final Vote in 2002. The Red Sox offered Damon a three-year contract following the conclusion of their previous four-year deal, but Damon instead chose to sign a four-year $52 million deal with the New York Yankees in 2005. This choice was heavily criticized by Red Sox fans, who saw the move as something of a betrayal, considering Damon's self-professed loyalty to the city of Boston. However, Damon went on to have a successful career with the Yankees, helping the team defeat the Red Sox multiple times in the subsequent seasons and winning his second World Series as a New York Yankee in 2009. Damon then entered free agency after the 2009 World Series win, as the Yankees refused to meet his contract demands of paying him at least $13 million per season, pursuant to his previous four-year deal. Because the Yankees ultimately signed other players instead, Damon signed a one-year contract for $8 million with the Detroit Tigers. With the Tigers, Damon recorded his 2,500th career hit. Once again a free agent at the end of the 2010 season, Damon then signed a one-year $5.25 million deal with the Tampa Bay Rays. The following season, he signed a one-year minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians for $1.25 million for the 2012 season. This proved to be the last season that Damon would play in an MLB game, as he entered free agency from 2013 to 2015 but did not receive any offers to play despite his willingness to do so. Damon finished his MLB career with 2,769 hits, earning him the 54th spot on the List of Major League Baseball career hit leaders. Personal Life Damon married his high school sweetheart, Angela Vannice, in 1992 at the age of 19. The couple had twins together in 1999 but later divorced in 2002. Two years later, in 2004, Damon married Michelle Mangan. Damon and Mangan had six children together, including another set of twins. The couple live together in Windermere, Florida. Damon stays active with volunteer work through the Wounded Warrior Project, an organization that is dedicated to raising money and awareness for injured veterans. He has stated that his relationship with his father helped him develop a deep sense of appreciation for the military. Damon was also a vocal supporter of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 American presidential election. He spoke at a Florida Donald Trump rally in 2016 and later served on a Trump-created council on sports, fitness, and nutrition. In February of 2021, Damon was arrested for driving while intoxicated in Windermere, Florida. Damon claimed that the arrest was related to his support of former president Trump. In the years since finishing his MLB career, Damon has been in and out of the spotlight, competing in a number of reality shows. In 2014, he was a contestant on the 2015 season of Celebrity Apprentice. He also competed in the 26th season of Dancing with the Stars, partnering with professional dancer Emma Slater. However, he was eliminated during the first episode. In 2019, Damon also appeared on the 4th and 5th seasons of "Below Deck Mediterranean" along with his wife, as the couple appeared as guests on a charter yacht. Florida Mansions In 2003, Johnny paid $1.15 million for a waterfront home in Windermere, Florida. He sold this home in 2016 for $1.7 million. Here is a video tour of this home: In 2007, Johnny paid $4 million for a 4.8-acre property in Windermere. He proceeded to construct what became a 20,000 square foot, nine-bedroom, 17-bathroom mansion. Construction was completed in 2010. Located in a gated and guarded private community called The Reserve of Lake Butler Sound, the home has 540 feet of water frontage on the outside and all the most high-end features on the inside. There's a basketball court, volleyball court, two outdoor kitchens, boat dock, resort-style pool with swim-up bar and grotto, a playhouse with a zip line… among many other luxurious features. Johnny listed this home for sale in December 2023 for $30 million. Here is a video tour:


--- [MLB's Johnny Damon boosts Boys & Girls Club with foundation check] ---
- March 4, 2026 Loading Retired Major League Baseball player Johnny Damon knows the value of the Boys & Girls Clubs and wishes he and his friends had access to more programs like this when they were growing up in southwest Orlando. Damon was in Winter Garden recently to present a check from the Johnny Damon Foundation for $50,000, which pushes the capital campaign closer to its $1.5 million construction goal. Damon, a father of eight, met with elementary school students in the Boys & Girls Club, raced them across the basketball court and fielded questions from the young children. Are you on YouTube? Yes. Have you ever played with Babe Ruth? Only on video games. Did Jackie Robinson play with you? No, I was a lot younger than Jackie. How much do baseball players make? There are some who make $33 million. What's your favorite part about playing baseball? Teamwork and the camaraderie I had with my teammates. That I had to rely on my pitcher to make good pitches. ... How to play as a team. ... Without teamwork, you are absolutely lost. The roughly 40 students gathered in the gym to hear Damon talk about his visit. “This is an awesome place you guys come to every day,” he said. “This is such a great organization that my foundation came today to drop off a check ... so kids coming behind you can enjoy, too.” Damon, 43, started playing Little League baseball when he was 6. His skills improved the more he played with the older, talented players, he said. He continued playing baseball at Dr. Phillips High School and was planning to play at the University of Florida, but the Kansas City Royals called and turned him pro at age 18. He was in the Major Leagues for 18 years and won two World Series rings with the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees. He retired four years ago. Damon started the Johnny Damon Foundation in 2007. “This is what it's set up for,” he said. “The reason for the foundation is there's somebody always in need. … And it seems like this place is a wonderful place.” Damon was introduced to the Boys & Girls Club by Randy June, a friend and owner of June Engineering Consultants. “He came to me and told me that they were trying to build another facility for these kids, and this is the most important time for these kids,” Damon said. “And if I didn't have great role models at this age, who knows where I would have ended up. “They need to be taught and in a safe place so they can achieve whatever dreams they have. … I didn't come from much. I understand how tough it can be for these families. We've been able to do so many things and wish the funds were never ending so we can help everyone.” Damon has agreed to make another donation after his January golf tournament. EXPANSION In a partnership between the city of Winter Garden and Orange County, a new 10,500-square-foot facility is planned to house the community's Boys & Girls Club. The new county facility will be built on city property near the Mildred Dixon Activity Center on south West Crown Point Road. The building will include a multipurpose room, small kitchen, youth learning center, computer labs, lounge area, music room, arts lab and teen game room. It will be able to accommodate about 200 children instead of the 60 it now serves. The club currently meets in a small, 30-foot by 30-foot space in the nearby West Orange Recreation Center. “We presently are able to only serve only about 60 youth (elementary kids) with space available, but with the new facility will be able to serve more than 200 and, most importantly, will have a facility for both youth and teens,” said Randy June, of June Engineering Consultants. According to June, 50% of the plans are completed for the new structure and agreements are being drafted with the city of Winter Garden for construction and with Orange County for operations. “We would like to start construction the first quarter of 2018 and hopefully have completed by fall of 2018,” June said. Besides Johnny Damon, other supporters to this date are Orange County, the Bond Foundation, Petro Family Foundation, Martin & Gracia Andersen Foundation, Junebug Foundation, Eric Fleischner Family, Winter Garden Rotary Club and the West Orange Junior Service League. So far, $1.15 million has been raised; $1.5 million is needed for the building and fixtures, and June said an additional $500,000 is needed for operations.
