=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Turkey Red Crescent head resigns following controversy over quake tents]
May 12, 2023 · The head of the Turkish Red Crescent resigned on Friday, the relief association said, three months after controversy emerged over the selling of tents to a charity in the first days after ...
URL: https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/turkey-red-crescent-head-resigns-following-controversy-over-quake-tents-2023-05-12/

[Turkish Red Crescent chief, slammed for selling tents meant for quake ...]
May 12, 2023 · Turkey's state-run news agency says the head of Turkey's Red Crescent organization has stepped down, months after the aid agency came under intense criticism for selling tents to a charity instead of dispatching them directly to areas devastated by a powerful earthquake in February. Kerem Kinik’s resignation on Friday came a day after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan criticized his actions ...
URL: https://apnews.com/article/turkish-red-crescent-earthquake-aid-erdogan-870e6af2eee2f26cbc3823720875546f

[Turkey Red Crescent head resigns after Erdoğan's criticism of ...]
Reuters - Duvar English The head of the Turkish Red Crescent resigned on May 12, the relief association said, three months after controversy emerged over the selling of tents to a charity in the first days after devastating earthquakes in Turkey. Kerem Kınık's resignation became trending on Twitter, with people saying that the move was a proof of the existence of a "one-man regime ...
URL: https://www.duvarenglish.com/turkey-red-crescent-head-resigns-after-erdogans-criticism-of-organization-over-sale-of-quake-tents-news-62394

[Red Crescent’s head resigns over tent sale after earthquake]
May 12, 2023 · Turkish Red Crescent head Kerem Kınık has reportedly resigned after mounting criticisms against him for selling tents to a civilian aid organization just days after the deadly Feb. 6 earthquakes that killed more than 50,000 people in Türkiye’s south.
URL: https://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/red-crescents-head-resigns-over-tent-sale-after-earthquake-183109

[Turkish Red Crescent chief, slammed for selling tents meant for quake ...]
May 12, 2023 · “The Red Crescent cannot engage in the sale of tents. He (Kinik) must rectify this wrong.” The organization was criticized for selling thousands of tents to a charity days after the Feb. 6 earthquake, amid a shortage of tents and shelter for the survivors.
URL: https://www.2822news.com/news/international/turkish-red-crescent-chief-slammed-for-selling-tents-meant-for-quake-survivors-steps-down/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Turkey Red Crescent head resigns following controversy over quake tents] ---
ANKARA, May 12 (Reuters) - The head of the Turkish Red Crescent resigned on Friday, the relief association said, three months after controversy emerged over the selling of tents to a charity in the first days after devastating earthquakes in Turkey. The magnitude 7.8 quake shook a huge area in southern Turkey in February, causing more than 54,000 deaths in Turkey and Syria. Sign up here. People in the region complained of a slow response by authorities in the first days after the disaster, prompting criticism of the government. President Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday he had been "saddened" by the Red Crescent selling tents. "Red Crescent cannot sell tents. They should correct this mistake immediately," he said during a meeting with young people that was pre-recorded and broadcast on Thursday. The resigning chairman, Kerem Kinik, first said that he was aware of the sale and described it as legal, arguing that a subsidiary of the agency conducted sale. But he later denied being aware of the sale and said he would have prevented it if he knew beforehand. The relief association said in its statement on Friday that it would hold an extraordinary convention following the resignation. Red Crescent also stirred a public debate after it was revealed that it sold tents to another charity, AHBAP, in the first days after the earthquake instead of directly sending them to disaster zone. Reporting by Huseyin Hayatsever and Yesim Dikmen; Editing by Daren Butler and Alex Richardson Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Turkish Red Crescent chief, slammed for selling tents meant for quake ...] ---
Turkish Red Crescent chief, slammed for selling tents meant for quake survivors, steps down ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — The head of Turkey’s Red Crescent organization has stepped down, the state-run news agency reported Friday, months after the aid agency came under intense criticism for selling tents to a charity instead of dispatching them directly to areas devastated by a powerful earthquake in February. Kerem Kinik’s resignation came a day after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan criticized the Red Crescent’s actions during a town hall meeting with young people while campaigning ahead of Sunday’s parliamentary and presidential elections. Erdogan had previously remained silent on the scandal that had led to widespread outrage and calls for Kinik to resign. “I was seriously saddened by this issue,” Erdogan said in the campaign event on Thursday. “The Red Crescent cannot engage in the sale of tents. He (Kinik) must rectify this wrong.” The organization was criticized for selling thousands of tents to a charity days after the Feb. 6 earthquake, amid a shortage of tents and shelter for the survivors. The tents, which the charity bought with money raised from public, were dispatched to the earthquake zone. Anadolu Agency reported that Kinik stepped down on Friday, after which the Red Crescent organization announced it would hold an extraordinary meeting. Kinik, who had led the organization since 2016, denied any wrongdoing.


--- [Turkey Red Crescent head resigns after Erdoğan's criticism of ...] ---
Turkey Red Crescent head resigns after Erdoğan's criticism of organization over sale of quake tents Turkish Red Crescent (Kızılay) head Kerem Kınık has resigned after President Erdoğan's criticism of the organization over the sale of tents to charity Ahbap during the post-earthquake period. Reuters - Duvar English The head of the Turkish Red Crescent resigned on May 12, the relief association said, three months after controversy emerged over the selling of tents to a charity in the first days after devastating earthquakes in Turkey. Kerem Kınık's resignation became trending on Twitter, with people saying that the move was a proof of the existence of a "one-man regime." Journalist Fatih Altaylı shared Kınık's photo on Twitter and wrote, "Bye bye Kerem." Bay Bay Kerem pic.twitter.com/WkTZRpTiI8 — Fatih Altayli 🔴🇹🇷 (@fatihaltayli) May 12, 2023 The magnitude 7.8 quake shook a huge area in southern Turkey in February, causing more than 54,000 deaths in Turkey and Syria. People in the region complained of a slow response by authorities in the first days after the disaster, prompting criticism of the government. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said on May 11 he had been "saddened" by the Red Crescent selling tents. "Red Crescent cannot sell tents. They should correct this mistake immediately," he said during a meeting with young people that was pre-recorded and broadcast on May 11. Kırık first said that he was aware of the sale and described it as legal, arguing that a subsidiary of the agency conducted sale. But he later denied being aware of the sale and said he would have prevented it if he knew beforehand. The relief association said in its statement on May 12 that it would hold an extraordinary convention following the resignation. Red Crescent also stirred a public debate after it was revealed that it sold tents to another charity, AHBAP, in the first days after the earthquake instead of directly sending them to disaster zone.


--- [Red Crescent’s head resigns over tent sale after earthquake] ---
Turkish Red Crescent head Kerem Kınık has reportedly resigned after mounting criticisms against him for selling tents to a civilian aid organization just days after the deadly Feb. 6 earthquakes that killed more than 50,000 people in Türkiye’s south. The Turkish media reported Kınık’s resignation late afternoon on May 12. His resignation came after President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan expressed his criticism against Kınık in a televised statement late on May 11. “This issue has seriously saddened me. The Red Crescent cannot sell tents. This mistake should be rapidly recovered,” Erdoğan said. The Turkish Red Crescent’s sale of 2,050 tents in its warehouse to AHBAP, a local aid organization, in the first days of the quakes had sparked debate. The 2,050 tents without logo, which were previously produced for a foreign organization and were in the warehouse at that time, were sold to AHBAP at cost price, stated Kerem Kınık, general manager of the Red Crescent.


--- [Turkish Red Crescent chief, slammed for selling tents meant for quake ...] ---
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — The head of Turkey’s Red Crescent organization has stepped down, the state-run news agency reported Friday, months after the aid agency came under intense criticism for selling tents to a charity instead of dispatching them directly to areas devastated by a powerful earthquake in February. Kerem Kinik’s resignation came a day after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan criticized the Red Crescent’s actions during a town hall meeting with young people while campaigning ahead of Sunday’s parliamentary and presidential elections. Erdogan had previously remained silent on the scandal that had led to widespread outrage and calls for Kinik to resign. “I was seriously saddened by this issue,” Erdogan said in the campaign event on Thursday. “The Red Crescent cannot engage in the sale of tents. He (Kinik) must rectify this wrong.” The organization was criticized for selling thousands of tents to a charity days after the Feb. 6 earthquake, amid a shortage of tents and shelter for the survivors. The tents, which the charity bought with money raised from public, were dispatched to the earthquake zone. Anadolu Agency reported that Kinik stepped down on Friday, after which the Red Crescent organization announced it would hold an extraordinary meeting. Kinik, who had led the organization since 2016, denied any wrongdoing.
