=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Iftikhar Hussain Ansari - Wikipedia]
Iftikhar Hussain Ansari (26 April 1942 – 30 September 2014), widely known among his followers as Moulvi Sahib, was a Kashmiri Shia cleric, politician, businessman and a proponent of the Grand Ashura Procession In Kashmir.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iftikhar_Hussain_Ansari

[7th Death Anniversary of Religious philosopher, recognized ...]
Tributes came in from various politicians and religious clerks. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone paid glowing tributes to renowned Islamic scholar and Jammu and Kashmir’s renowned political personality Moulana Iftikhar Hussain Ansari sahib on his 7th death anniversary .
URL: https://wilayattimes.com/7th-death-anniversary-of-religious-philosopher-recognized-politician-the-man-of-letters-maulana-iftikhar-ansari-observed-across-jk/

[Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari - Imam Hussain Research]
Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari’s life and legacy are a testament to his multifaceted contributions to Kashmiri society. As a revered cleric, influential politician, and successful businessman, Ansari left an indelible mark on the religious, political, and economic landscape of Jammu and Kashmir.
URL: https://imamhussainresearch.com/molvi-iftikhar-hussain-ansari/

[Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari]
... minister in the National Conference (NC) government headed by Dr Farooq Abdullah. In 2002, Molvi Iftikhar joined NC and was elected from Pattan Assembly ...
URL: https://www.imamhussainresearch.com/molvi-iftikhar-ansari.php

[PDP MLA Iftikhar Hussain Ansari passes away | India News ...]
Sep 30, 2014 · Opposition PDP MLA in Jammu and Kashmir Assembly and prominent Shia cleric, Moulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari died here today following prolonged illness. He was 74. “Mouvli Iftikhar Ansari died in the wee hours today after battling an ailment for more than a year,” a relative of the deceased PDP leader said.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-others/pdp-mla-iftikhar-hussain-ansari-passes-away/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Iftikhar Hussain Ansari - Wikipedia] ---
Iftikhar Hussain Ansari  (26 April 1942 – 30 September 2014), widely known among his followers as Moulvi Sahib, was a Kashmiri Shia cleric, politician, businessman and a proponent of the Grand Ashura Procession In Kashmir. Ansari was a Wakil (Representative) of Ayatollah Sistani. He was also the representative of Ruhollah Khomeini.
He was one of the leading Shia clerics in Kashmir and had close relations with multiple other important scholars such as Sayyid Jawad Shahristani, Mohammad Alavi Gorgani and Lotfollah Safi Golpaygani. He studied at Sultanul Madaris Lucknow, as well as Hawza Najaf.
He succeeded his father Muhammad Jawad Ansari as president of the All Jammu and Kashmir Shia Association in Jammu & Kashmir in 1962, a position which he held for life.  He was four-time member of Jammu and Kashmir's Legislative Assembly for the Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party from Pattan Assembly segment; he was earlier a member of the National Conference and Congress.
In 1978, He along with Abdul Ghani Lone founded the Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference of which his son and brother are now a part.


--- [7th Death Anniversary of Religious philosopher, recognized ...] ---
Srinagar | WTNS | October 01:30 September 2021 marked the 7th Death anniversary of Maulana Iftikhar Hussain Ansari was the celebrated figure with the diverse aspects . Ansari was the recognized global orator popularly known for Sham-e-Garibaan sermons which used to be watched million of people with the record Ansari was born great with the golden heart and steel nerves, he was the visionary leader with gigantic adventitious political prowess. His death turned out to be the bolt of blue for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “Born on April 26, 1940, he studied Islamic theology in Iran, Egypt and Iraq. Starting his political career in 1960s, Ansari was nominated as an MLC in 1973 on Congress ticket but switched to Janata Party in 1977. He returned to Congress in 1980s and was chosen as leader of the Legislature party in the State Assembly from 1983 to 1987. He was again elected to the state legislative assembly in 1996 on a Congress ticket and became a minister in the National Conference (NC) government headed by Farooq Abdullah. Ansari joined the NC in 2002 and was elected from Pattan Assembly segment later that year but quit the party in 2006 to join the PDP. He lost the by—election the Shia cleric won the election in 2008 on a PDP “ Wilayat Times News Service (WTNS) reports that Majlis-e-Quran Khawani was held at Baba Mazar Zadibal Srinagar and also a day long Majlis-e Aza was organised at Jamia Imam Sadiq (A.S) Shadipora Bandipora under the banned of All Jammu and Kashmir Shia Association. Tributes came in from various politicians and religious clerks. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone paid glowing tributes to renowned Islamic scholar and Jammu and Kashmir’s renowned political personality Moulana Iftikhar Hussain Ansari sahib on his 7th death anniversary . Lone in his tribute remembered Late Moulvi sahib as a noted religious scholar and political leader who had dedicated his life for the upliftment of the downtrodden sections of the society and instilling in them enough confidence to fight and struggle for their genuine rights. Lone said that Molvi sahib’s contribution in the welfare and prosperity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir will be fondly remembered for times to come. “He was a man with genuine spirit of patriotism. Molvi sahib had a long relationship with my father and was in fact the founding member and first Vice President of the J&K Peoples Conference. He personally was very compassionate and was always there for me. I will always fondly recall long sessions with him and how he would guide me as fatherly figure. I will always remember him as a person who played an important role in my upbringing as a political leader and in facilitating me to evolve into a better human being,” Lone said in his tributary note. Meanwhile other PC leaders including Abdul Gani Vakil, Imran Reza Ansari, Syed Basharat Bukhari, Fayaz Ahmed Mir, Nazir Ahmed Laway, Mansoor Soharvardi, Adv Bashir Ahmed Dar, Abid Hussain Ansari, Yasir Reshi, Mohammad Khurshid Alam, Mohammad Abbas Wani, Murtaza Khan, Mohammad Ashraf Mir, Raja Aijaz Ali, Irfan Panditpori, Safina Baig, Sheikh Mohammad Imran, Adnan Ashraf Mir also paid tributes to Moulana Iftikhar Hussain Ansari sahib and paid for peace to the departed soul. Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference (JKPC) on Thursday held a remembrance meeting at the party headquarters here to pay tributes to Moulvi Iftikhar Ansari sahib on his 7th death anniversary. The leaders highlighted the crucial role played by Moulvi Iftikhar sahib in the upliftment of the downtrodden people and empowering them to fight for their dignity, rights and entitlements with impeccable will and determination. Those who spoke on the occasion include Mohammad Abbas Wani who gave an emotional tribute to Moulvi sahib and remembered his contributions to the entire people of J&K. He fondly recalled Moulvi sahibs support and encouragement in his personal life and political life.


--- [Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari - Imam Hussain Research] ---
Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari (26 April 1943 – 30 September 2014) widely known as Molvi Saeb among his followers was a Kashmiri Shia cleric, politician, businessman and a authoriser of Grand Ashura Procession In Kashmir. Ansari was also a renowned business man. He studied Islamic theology in Iran, Egypt and Iraq. He was famous among religious circles as great orator of majlise shame – ghareeba the night of 11th muharram His religious speeches catapult him on global stage and were widely hailed worldwide particularly in the Indian subcontinent. He succeeded his father Molvi Muhammad Jawad Ansari as president of All Jammu and Kashmir Shia Association in Jammu & Kashmir in 1962, a position he held for life. He was a sitting member of Jammu and Kashmir’s Legislative Assembly for the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Democratic Party; he was earlier a member of National Conference and Congress. Molvi Iftikhar entry into politics was seen as major shift. He was nominated as an MLC in 1973 on Congress ticket but switched to Janata Party in 1977. In Parliament elections, he first time contested against the National Conference during LS polls of 1977. And the NC’s candidate was wife of late Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah. Though he lost those elections but his contesting against NC was marked as the beginning of state’s mainstream politics. He switched back to Congress in 1980s and was chosen as leader of the Legislature party in the State Assembly from 1983 to 1987. He was again elected to the state legislative assembly in 1996 on a Congress ticket and became a minister in the National Conference (NC) government headed by Dr Farooq Abdullah. In 2002, Molvi Iftikhar joined NC and was elected from Pattan Assembly segment later that year but quit the party in 2006 to join the PDP. He lost the by-election. Coming back strongly in 2008, he was elected from Pattan Assembly segment. In forth coming assembly elections, he was PDP’s candidate from the same constituency. Currently a law maker from North Kashmir’s Pattan and Vice- President of State’s principal opposition Peoples Democratic party, Molvi Iftikhar was earlier member of Congress and National Conference. He served State as minister as well. Besides being well read cleric and mature politician, Molvi Ansari was also a business tycoon of state interests in car trade. His family also owns two leading showrooms in the summer capital of the state. Assassinations Maulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari was one of the rare political stalwarts who stood by the people of the state and did not leave valley during peak of militancy. He escaped three assassination attempts. Ansari was thrice the target of unsuccessful assassination attempts. In June 2000 Ansari barely escaped the explosion of a landmine while addressing a religious congregation at Gund Khwaja Qasim. The blast killed twelve of his followers. On 1 September 2000 Ansari was injured by an IED explosion that killed two policemen and a driver. Death Ansari died at his residence Dar ul Jawad, Qamarwari, Srinagar on the morning of 30 September 2014 (04 Zilhajah 1435 AH), after a prolonged liver illness. Ansari was undergoing specialized treatment in the United States. Various political, religious and social leaders offered condolences. Not well during last few years of his life, Molvi Ansari finally lost battle to chronic liver disease on September 30 2014. In recent past according to family, he was in New Delhi for treatment. When flood hit valley, Molvi was shifted to his daughter’s residence at Alamgari Bazar. His condition deteriorated and was taken back to his Darul Jawad residence late Sunday evening. Amid sobs, wails and tears, Molvi Iftikhar’s body was taken for last rites. The people were in lakhs and the funeral procession passed through Saikidafar, Eid gah Hawal Gaysiyar Chowk and Alamgari Bazar. Almost half a million people joined the funeral procession of iftikhar Ansari from qamarwari to Zadibal imambargah where namaz e jenazah was offered. He was buried in his ancestral graveyard, Baba Mazar, Alamgari bazar, Zadibal, Sriangar. Cutting across political affiliations, his demise was widely condoled. Known as the fire brand leader in the political spectrum of the state, Molvi Iftikhar’s demise was termed as the great loss for the state. Besides top leadership of PDP, Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was among the first to reach to the residence of Molvi Iftikhar and condole his demise, while Omar’s father Dr Farooq Abdullah termed the loss as ‘personal’. Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari: A Prominent Figure in Kashmiri Shia Islam and Politics Early Life and Education Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari, widely known as Molvi Saeb among his followers, was born on 26 April 1943. He hailed from a distinguished family with deep roots in religious scholarship and leadership. From a young age, Ansari was immersed in an environment that fostered Islamic learning and piety. His father, Molvi Muhammad Jawad Ansari, was a respected cleric, setting the stage for Iftikhar’s future endeavors. Ansari pursued Islamic theology in some of the most prestigious centers of Shia learning, including Iran, Egypt, and Iraq. This extensive education equipped him with profound knowledge and understanding of Islamic jurisprudence, theology, and Quranic exegesis. His scholarly pursuits earned him recognition as a formidable orator and religious leader. Religious Leadership and Influence Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari’s religious leadership was marked by his eloquent sermons and deep spiritual insights. He was particularly renowned for his majlise shame-ghareeba, the night of 11th Muharram, where his orations captivated audiences and earned him a global reputation. His speeches were widely hailed, especially in the Indian subcontinent, where his influence extended beyond Kashmir. In 1962, following the death of his father, Ansari succeeded him as the president of the All Jammu and Kashmir Shia Association, a position he held for life. Under his leadership, the association became a significant force in the religious and social life of Kashmiri Shias. Ansari’s ability to articulate the community’s concerns and aspirations made him a beloved figure among his followers. Political Career Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari’s entry into politics marked a significant shift in his career and the political landscape of Kashmir. He began his political journey as a member of the Indian National Congress, where he was nominated as a Member of the Legislative Council (MLC) in 1973. In 1977, he switched to the Janata Party and contested the parliamentary elections against the National Conference (NC), although he was not successful. Ansari’s political career was characterized by several party affiliations and significant positions. He rejoined the Congress in the 1980s and served as the leader of the Legislature Party in the State Assembly from 1983 to 1987. He was elected to the state legislative assembly in 1996 on a Congress ticket and became a minister in the NC government headed by Dr. Farooq Abdullah. In 2002, Ansari joined the NC and was elected from the Pattan Assembly segment. However, he quit the party in 2006 to join the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Although he lost the by-election, he made a strong comeback in 2008, winning the Pattan Assembly seat. At the time of his death, he was a sitting lawmaker from Pattan and the Vice-President of the PDP. Business Ventures In addition to his religious and political roles, Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari was also a successful businessman. He had significant interests in the automobile trade, and his family owned two leading car showrooms in Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir. His business acumen further cemented his status as a prominent figure in the state’s socio-economic fabric. Assassination Attempts Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari was a steadfast leader who remained in the Kashmir Valley during the peak of militancy, despite facing significant personal risks. He survived three assassination attempts. The first, in June 2000, occurred when a landmine exploded while he was addressing a religious congregation at Gund Khwaja Qasim, killing twelve of his followers. The second attempt, on 1 September 2000, involved an IED explosion that injured Ansari and killed two policemen and a driver. Death and Legacy Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari passed away on 30 September 2014, at his residence Dar ul Jawad in Qamarwari, Srinagar, after a prolonged battle with liver disease. His death marked the end of an era for the Shia community in Kashmir. He had been undergoing specialized treatment in the United States and was also treated in New Delhi before returning to Kashmir during the floods of 2014. Ansari’s funeral was a massive event, with almost half a million people joining the procession from Qamarwari to Zadibal Imambargah, where the Namaz-e-Janazah was offered. He was buried in his ancestral graveyard, Baba Mazar, Alamgari Bazar, Zadibal, Srinagar. His death was widely condoled across political affiliations, with prominent leaders, including Chief Minister Omar Abdullah and Dr. Farooq Abdullah, expressing their grief. Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari’s life and legacy are a testament to his multifaceted contributions to Kashmiri society. As a revered cleric, influential politician, and successful businessman, Ansari left an indelible mark on the religious, political, and economic landscape of Jammu and Kashmir. His unwavering commitment to his community, despite facing numerous challenges, continues to inspire and guide future generations.


--- [Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari] ---
Molvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari (26 April 1943 - 30 September 2014) widely known as Molvi Saeb among his followers was a Kashmiri Shia cleric, politician, businessman and a authoriser of Grand Ashura Procession In Kashmir. Ansari was also a renowned business man. He studied Islamic theology in Iran, Egypt and Iraq. He was famous among religious circles as great orator of majlise shame - ghareeba the night of 11th muharram His religious speeches catapult him on global stage and were widely hailed worldwide particularly in the Indian subcontinent. He succeeded his father Molvi Muhammad Jawad Ansari as president of All Jammu and Kashmir Shia Association in Jammu & Kashmir in 1962, a position he held for life. He was a sitting member of Jammu and Kashmir's Legislative Assembly for the Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party; he was earlier a member of National Conference and Congress. Molvi Iftikhar entry into politics was seen as major shift. He was nominated as an MLC in 1973 on Congress ticket but switched to Janata Party in 1977. In Parliament elections, he first time contested against the National Conference during LS polls of 1977. And the NC's candidate was wife of late Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah. Though he lost those elections but his contesting against NC was marked as the beginning of state's mainstream politics. He switched back to Congress in 1980s and was chosen as leader of the Legislature party in the State Assembly from 1983 to 1987. He was again elected to the state legislative assembly in 1996 on a Congress ticket and became a minister in the National Conference (NC) government headed by Dr Farooq Abdullah. In 2002, Molvi Iftikhar joined NC and was elected from Pattan Assembly segment later that year but quit the party in 2006 to join the PDP. He lost the by-election. Coming back strongly in 2008, he was elected from Pattan Assembly segment. In forth coming assembly elections, he was PDP's candidate from the same constituency. Currently a law maker from North Kashmir's Pattan and Vice- President of State's principal opposition Peoples Democratic party, Molvi Iftikhar was earlier member of Congress and National Conference. He served State as minister as well. Besides being well read cleric and mature politician, Molvi Ansari was also a business tycoon of state interests in car trade. His family also owns two leading showrooms in the summer capital of the state. Maulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari was one of the rare political stalwarts who stood by the people of the state and did not leave valley during peak of militancy. He escaped three assassination attempts. Ansari was thrice the target of unsuccessful assassination attempts. In June 2000 Ansari barely escaped the explosion of a landmine while addressing a religious congregation at Gund Khwaja Qasim. The blast killed twelve of his followers. On 1 September 2000 Ansari was injured by an IED explosion that killed two policemen and a driver. Ansari died at his residence Dar ul Jawad, Qamarwari, Srinagar on the morning of 30 September 2014 (04 Zilhajah 1435 AH), after a prolonged liver illness. Ansari was undergoing specialized treatment in the United States. Various political, religious and social leaders offered condolences. Not well during last few years of his life, Molvi Ansari finally lost battle to chronic liver disease on September 30 2014. In recent past according to family, he was in New Delhi for treatment. When flood hit valley, Molvi was shifted to his daughter's residence at Alamgari Bazar. His condition deteriorated and was taken back to his Darul Jawad residence late Sunday evening. Amid sobs, wails and tears, Molvi Iftikhar's body was taken for last rites. The people were in lakhs and the funeral procession passed through Saikidafar, Eid gah Hawal Gaysiyar Chowk and Alamgari Bazar. Almost half a million people joined the funeral procession of iftikhar Ansari from qamarwari to Zadibal imambargah where namaz e jenazah was offered. He was buried in his ancestral graveyard, Baba Mazar, Alamgari bazar, Zadibal, Sriangar. Cutting across political affiliations, his demise was widely condoled. Known as the fire brand leader in the political spectrum of the state, Molvi Iftikhar's demise was termed as the great loss for the state. Besides top leadership of PDP, Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was among the first to reach to the residence of Molvi Iftikhar and condole his demise, while Omar's father Dr Farooq Abdullah termed the loss as 'personal'. .


--- [PDP MLA Iftikhar Hussain Ansari passes away | India News ...] ---
Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram Opposition PDP MLA in Jammu and Kashmir Assembly and prominent Shia cleric, Moulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari died here today following prolonged illness. He was 74. “Mouvli Iftikhar Ansari died in the wee hours today after battling an ailment for more than a year,” a relative of the deceased PDP leader said. The four-time MLA from Pattan Assembly segment, Ansari has a huge following amongst Shias in the state. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Born on April 26, 1940, he studied Islamic theology in Iran, Egypt and Iraq. Starting his political career in 1960s, Ansari was nominated as an MLC in 1973 on Congress ticket but switched to Janata Party in 1977. He returned to Congress in 1980s and was chosen as leader of the Legislature party in the State Assembly from 1983 to 1987. He was again elected to the state legislative assembly in 1996 on a Congress ticket and became a minister in the National Conference (NC) government headed by Farooq Abdullah. Ansari joined the NC in 2002 and was elected from Pattan Assembly segment later that year but quit the party in 2006 to join the PDP. He lost the by-election. The Shia cleric won the election in 2008 on a PDP ticket and was nominated as the party candidate for the forthcoming assembly elections scheduled to be held later this year. Upon hearing the news of his death, thousands of Ansari’s supporters thronged his residence at Qammarwari in the city. The huge influx of mourners led the authorities to divert traffic between Bemina and Parimpora crossings, causing massive traffic snarls. Many areas, dominated by Shias, shutdown as a mark of respect to the departed leader. Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram
