=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio - Wikipedia]
The Astrarium: tracing of an illustration in the Tractatus astrarii showing the weights, escapement, and main gear train but not the complex upper section with its many wheels The Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio was a complex astronomical clock built between 1348 and 1364 in Padua, the capital of an independent Signoria, by the doctor and clock-maker Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio. The ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrarium_of_Giovanni_Dondi_dall%27Orologio

[Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364 | cabinet]
Dondi’s Astrarium had seven faces, one each for the movements of the sun, the moon, and the five planets according to a Ptolemaic system (see video, 2:02-2:54 and images above). It also displayed the legal, religious, and civil calendars of the day. A single weight drove the mechanism, which was communicated to the faces by 107 moving parts.
URL: https://www.cabinet.ox.ac.uk/giovanni-dondis-astrarium-1364-0

[Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364]
Dondi's Astrarium had seven faces, one each for the movements of the sun, the moon, and the five planets according to a Ptolemaic system (see video, 2:02-2:54 ...
URL: https://www.cabinet.ox.ac.uk/giovanni-dondis-astrarium-1364

[Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio explained]
Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio explained The Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio was a complex astronomical clock built between 1348 and 1364 in Padova, Italy, by the doctor and clock-maker Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio. The Astrarium had seven faces and 107 moving parts; it showed the positions of the sun, the moon and the five planets then known, as well as religious feast ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Astrarium_of_Giovanni_Dondi_dell%27Orologio/

[Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio - Detailed Pedia]
The Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio was a complex astronomical clock built between 1348 and 1364 in Padova, Italy, by the doctor and clock-maker Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio. The Astrarium had seven faces and 107 moving parts; it showed the positions of the Sun, the Moon and the five planets then known, as well as religious feast days. It was one of the first mechanical clocks to be ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-Astrarium_of_Giovanni_Dondi_dall%27Orologio


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio - Wikipedia] ---
The Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio was a complex astronomical clock built between 1348 and 1364 in Padua, the capital of an independent Signoria, by the doctor and clock-maker Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio. The Astrarium had seven faces and 107 moving parts; it showed the positions of the Sun, the Moon and the five planets then known, as well as religious feast days. It was one of the first mechanical clocks to be built in Europe.


--- [Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364 | cabinet] ---
Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364 Commentary Reconstruction (1961-3) of the astrarium of Giovanni Dondi (1348-64) Details. Maker: Luigi Pippa. Date: 1961-3. Dimensions: height 98 cm, diameter 90 cm, weight 80 kg. Materials: iron, brass, copper. Source: Museo Nazionale della Scienza e della Tecnologia Leonardo da Vinci di Milano. Licence: (CC BY-SA 4.0). Supplementary images: faces for the sun (2), Mercury (3), Venus (4), Mars (5), and Jupiter (6). Dondi's drawing of the dial for Venus (7: Padova, Biblioteca Capitolare, Ms. D.39, f. 12v. Wikimedia: public domain). Leonardo da Vinci's drawing of a dial for Venus (8: Institut de France ms L: 92v. Wikimedia: Public domain) Commentary. An ‘astrarium’ or ‘planetarium’ is an astronomical clock which provides a mechanical representation of the cyclic nature of all the main objects of the heavens in a single timepiece. Astonishingly, the first documented example of such a device was completed (after 16 years’ work) in 1364, only about 60 after Europe’s very first mechanical clocks.* So remarkable was this accomplishment that its maker – a Venetian astronomer, philosopher, poet, and professor of medicine in Padua – was immortalized under the name Giovanni Dondi dall’Orologio (1318-1388). Dondi’s Astrarium had seven faces, one each for the movements of the sun, the moon, and the five planets according to a Ptolemaic system (see video, 2:02-2:54 and images above). It also displayed the legal, religious, and civil calendars of the day. A single weight drove the mechanism, which was communicated to the faces by 107 moving parts. Contemporaries regarded it as little short of a technological miracle: as Giovanni Manzini of Pavia wrote in 1388, ‘Never was there invented an artifice so excellent and marvellous and of such genius’. For centuries the astrarium attracted admirers from across Italy, including Leonardo da Vinci, whose drawings of the dials for Mars and Venus still exist. Fortunately, de Dondi also left a meticulous account of the design of the machine in a manuscript, which was much copied: twelve manuscript copies survive today (see video, 1:15-1:27). The clock itself was lost, possibly in the sack of Mantua in 1630, but the detailed written descriptions and numerous drawings have enabled several twentieth-century reconstructions of the astrarium, including those now on display in - La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland: Musée international d'horologerie; - London: Science Museum; - Milan: Museo Nazionale della Scienza e della Tecnologia Leonardo da Vinci; - New York: IBM headquarters; - Padua: Università degli Studi di Padova; - Paris: Observatoire de Paris; - Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution; - Zurich: Theodore Beyer Collection * Giovanni’s father, Jacopo de Dondi, had taken a major step in the direction of the astrarium in 1344: he constructed the first known clock which combined the movements of the sun and moon with the zodiac, complete with geometrical figures designed to reveal at a glance the astrological aspects between the sun and moon. His clock, destroyed in a fight between Padua and Milan in 1390, was rebuilt on a similar design in 1423, which can still be seen here. Further information: Christophe Roulet, ‘Dondi’s astrarium, the eighth wonder of the world’, FHH Journal ( 24 October 2008). Credits: Howard Hotson (May 2018) Proposal for enhancement. Dondi's astrarium could provide the centrepiece for a cluster of materials exploring the active participation of professors and practitioners of medicine, not only in astrological medicine, but also in astronomical and technological innovation in the late Middle Ages. As a first step in this direction, permission might be sought to adapt the video below for educational purposes by means of editing, the insertion of subtitles, and potentially even new footage placing this remarkable device in a larger context.


--- [Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364] ---
Giovanni Dondi's Astrarium, 1364 Commentary Reconstruction (1961-3) of the astrarium of Giovanni Dondi (1348-64) Details. Maker: Luigi Pippa. Date: 1961-3. Dimensions: height 98 cm, diameter 90 cm, weight 80 kg. Materials: iron, brass, copper. Source: Museo Nazionale della Scienza e della Tecnologia Leonardo da Vinci di Milano. Licence: (CC BY-SA 4.0). Supplementary images: faces for the sun (2), Mercury (3), Venus (4), Mars (5), and Jupiter (6). Dondi's drawing of the dial for Venus (7: Padova, Biblioteca Capitolare, Ms. D.39, f. 12v. Wikimedia: public domain). Leonardo da Vinci's drawing of a dial for Venus (8: Institut de France ms L: 92v. Wikimedia: Public domain) Commentary. An ‘astrarium’ or ‘planetarium’ is an astronomical clock which provides a mechanical representation of the cyclic nature of all the main objects of the heavens in a single timepiece. Astonishingly, the first documented example of such a device was completed (after 16 years’ work) in 1364, only about 60 after Europe’s very first mechanical clocks.* So remarkable was this accomplishment that its maker – a Venetian astronomer, philosopher, poet, and professor of medicine in Padua – was immortalized under the name Giovanni Dondi dall’Orologio (1318-1388). Dondi’s Astrarium had seven faces, one each for the movements of the sun, the moon, and the five planets according to a Ptolemaic system (see video, 2:02-2:54 and images above). It also displayed the legal, religious, and civil calendars of the day. A single weight drove the mechanism, which was communicated to the faces by 107 moving parts. Contemporaries regarded it as little short of a technological miracle: as Giovanni Manzini of Pavia wrote in 1388, ‘Never was there invented an artifice so excellent and marvellous and of such genius’. For centuries the astrarium attracted admirers from across Italy, including Leonardo da Vinci, whose drawings of the dials for Mars and Venus still exist. Fortunately, de Dondi also left a meticulous account of the design of the machine in a manuscript, which was much copied: twelve manuscript copies survive today (see video, 1:15-1:27). The clock itself was lost, possibly in the sack of Mantua in 1630, but the detailed written descriptions and numerous drawings have enabled several twentieth-century reconstructions of the astrarium, including those now on display in - La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland: Musée international d'horologerie; - London: Science Museum; - Milan: Museo Nazionale della Scienza e della Tecnologia Leonardo da Vinci; - New York: IBM headquarters; - Padua: Università degli Studi di Padova; - Paris: Observatoire de Paris; - Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution; - Zurich: Theodore Beyer Collection * Giovanni’s father, Jacopo de Dondi, had taken a major step in the direction of the astrarium in 1344: he constructed the first known clock which combined the movements of the sun and moon with the zodiac, complete with geometrical figures designed to reveal at a glance the astrological aspects between the sun and moon. His clock, destroyed in a fight between Padua and Milan in 1390, was rebuilt on a similar design in 1423, which can still be seen here. Further information: Christophe Roulet, ‘Dondi’s astrarium, the eighth wonder of the world’, FHH Journal ( 24 October 2008). Credits: Howard Hotson (May 2018)


--- [Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio explained] ---
No content


--- [Astrarium of Giovanni Dondi dall'Orologio - Detailed Pedia] ---
No content
