=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter]
Jan 31, 2020 · Constable rejected the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College in 1802. Noted artist Benjamin West predicted the rejection would spell the end of Constable's painting career. The younger artist was steadfast and insisted that he wanted to be a professional painter, not an instructor.
URL: https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647

[John Constable - Wikipedia]
John Constable RA (/ ˈkʌnstəbəl, ˈkɒn -/; [1] 11 June 1776 - 31 March 1837) was an English landscape painter in the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre of landscape painting [2] with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home - now known as "Constable Country" - which ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Constable

[John Constable | Romantic Landscape Painter, English Artist - Britannica]
Feb 22, 2026 · In 1802 Constable refused the stability of a post as drawing master at a military academy so that he could instead dedicate himself to landscape painting and to studying nature directly in the English countryside. That same year he exhibited his work at the Royal Academy for the first time. Despite some early explorations in oil, in the first part of this decade he preferred using watercolour ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Constable

[John Constable | English Painter | Area of Design]
In 1802 he refused the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College, a move which Benjamin West (then master of the RA) counselled would mean the end of his career. In that year, Constable wrote a letter to John Dunthorne in which he spelled out his determination to become a professional landscape painter: "For the last two years I have been running after pictures, and seeking ...
URL: https://areaofdesign.com/john-constable/

[John Constable Biography In Details]
By 1803, he was exhibiting paintings at the Royal Academy. In 1802 he refused the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College, a move which ...
URL: https://www.john-constable.org/biography.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter] ---
Humanities › Visual Arts › Art & Artists › Art History › Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter Print "Stratford Mill" (1820). Hulton Archive / Getty Images Visual Arts Art & Artists Art History Architecture By Bill Lamb Bill Lamb Music Expert M.L.S, Library Science, Indiana University Bill Lamb is a music and arts writer with two decades of experience covering the world of entertainment and culture. Learn about our Editorial Process Updated on January 31, 2020 Close John Constable (June 11, 1776—March 31, 1837) was one of the most prominent British landscape painters of the 1800s. Tied strongly to the Romantic Movement, he embraced the idea of painting directly from nature and introduced scientific detail to his work. He struggled to make ends meet during his lifetime, but today he is recognized as a vital link in the evolution toward impressionism. Fast Facts: John Constable Known For: Landscape painter and pioneer of naturalism, known for his scientific approach to painting and his large-scale "six footers"Born: June 11, 1776 in East Bergholt, EnglandParents: Golding and Ann ConstableDied: March 31, 1837 in London, EnglandEducation: Royal AcademyArt Movement: RomanticismMediums: Oil painting and watercolorsSelected Works: "Dedham Vale" (1802), "The White Horse" (1819), "The Hay Wain" (1821)Spouse: Maria Elizabeth BicknellChildren: Seven: John Charles, Maria Louisa, Charles Golding, Isobel, Emma, Alfred, LionelNotable Quote: "Painting is a science and should be pursued as an inquiry into the laws of nature." Early Life and Training Born in East Bergholt, a small town on the River Stour in England, John Constable was the son of a wealthy corn trader. His father owned the ship that he used to send corn to London. The family expected John to succeed his father in running the merchant business. Early in his life, Constable took sketching trips in the land around his home, which is now known as "Constable Country." The surrounding countryside would feature in the bulk of his later art. The young painter met artist John Thomas Smith, who encouraged him to stay in the family business and avoid working professionally as an artist. Constable didn't follow the advice. A chalk and pencil self-portrait by English landscape painter John Constable (1776 - 1837), circa 1800. Hulton Archive / Getty Images In 1790, John Constable convinced his father to allow him to embark on a career in art. He entered the Royal Academy Schools, where he studied and made copies of paintings by the old masters. He particularly admired the work of Thomas Gainsborough and Peter Paul Rubens. Constable rejected the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College in 1802. Noted artist Benjamin West predicted the rejection would spell the end of Constable's painting career. The younger artist was steadfast and insisted that he wanted to be a professional painter, not an instructor. In the first years of the 1800s, Constable painted views of Dedham Vale near his home. The works are not as mature as his later work, but the peaceful atmosphere he became known for is abundantly present. In 1803, Constable began exhibiting his paintings at the Royal Academy. He did not make enough from his landscapes to live on, so he accepted portrait commissions to make ends meet. While the artist reportedly found portraiture dull, he executed many well-received portraits throughout his career. "Dedham Church and Vale" (1800). WikiArt / Public Domain Rising Reputation Following his marriage to Maria Bicknell in 1816, John Constable began experimenting with bright, more vibrant colors and livelier brushstrokes. The new techniques enhanced the emotional impact of his work. Unfortunately, he only managed to scrape by on income from sales of paintings. In 1819, Constable finally experienced a breakthrough. He released "The White Horse," known as the first of his "six-footers," large-scale paintings measuring six-feet or more in length. The enthusiastic reception helped Constable in his election as an Associate of the Royal Academy. The 1821 exhibition of "The Hay Wain" further enhanced the artist's reputation. "The White Horse" (1819). Geoffrey Clements / Getty Images When "The Hay Wain" appeared at the Paris Salon of 1824, the French king awarded it a gold medal. The award began a period in which Constable was more successful in France than at home in England. However, he refused to cross the English Channel to promote his work in person, preferring to remain at home. In 1828, after giving birth to the couple's seventh child, Constable's wife, Maria, contracted tuberculosis and died at age 41. Deeply saddened by the loss, Constable dressed in black. He invested a legacy from the death of Maria's father in his art. Unfortunately, the results were a financial failure, and the artist continued to scrape by. The following year, the Royal Academy elected John Constable a full member. He began giving public lectures on landscape painting. He contended that his work contained elements of both science and poetry. Constable Landscapes At the time that John Constable created his most celebrated landscape paintings, the prevailing opinion in the art world was that artists should use their imagination in producing pictures. Painting directly from nature was considered a lesser pursuit. Constable created many large, complete preliminary sketches for his paintings to work out the composition details. Art historians today value the sketches for what they say about the artist. Many of them are more emotional and aggressive than the finished paintings. They point in the direction of the innovations of impressionist and post-impressionist painters more than 50 years later. The sky and textures of the clouds interested Constable when painting his landscapes. He insisted on being more scientific in his renderings of atmospheric details. Late in his career, he began painting rainbows. Occasionally, he included rainbows that would have been a physical impossibility based on the other sky conditions shown. The pioneering work of Luke Howard on classifying clouds had a significant impact on Constable's work. "The Hay Wain" (1821). Hulton Fine Art / Getty Images Later Career In the 1830s, John Constable switched from oil painting to watercolors. His final "six-footer" was the 1831 rendering of "Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows." The stormy weather and the accompanying rainbow in the picture were understood to represent the artist's turbulent emotional state. However, the rainbow is a symbol of hope for a brighter future. In 1835, Constable painted "Stonehenge," one of his best-loved works. It is a watercolor that shows the monumental arrangement of ancient stones against the backdrop of a sky that features a double rainbow. The same year, he delivered his final lecture to the Royal Academy. He spoke with abundant praise about the old master Raphael and stated that the Royal Academy was "the cradle of British art." Constable continued to work in his studio until his final days. He died of heart failure in his studio on March 31, 1837. "Stoke Poges Church" (1833). Hulton Archive / Getty Images Legacy Along with William Turner, John Constable is recognized as one of the most notable landscape artists of the 19th century. In his lifetime, the art world didn't recognize him as one of the top talents, but his reputation remains solid today. Constable is considered a pioneer of naturalism in painting in England. He was one of the first major artists to work directly from nature and apply his knowledge of light and naturalistic detail to Romantic subject matter. The emotional impact of many of his landscapes remains dramatic and idealized. Still, his studies resulted in rendering plants in such detail that a viewer may ascertain the specific species he painted. Constable was a significant influence on the French leader of the Romantic Movement in painting, Eugene Delacroix. In journal entries written by Delacroix, he stated that he admired Constable's use of "broken color and flickering light." The Barbizon School, French painters who focused on realism in landscape painting, felt the impact of Constable's innovations, too. Jean-Francois Millet and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot took the direct observation of nature even further in an evolution that led to impressionism. "Rainstorm Over the Sea" (1826). Hulton Fine Art / Getty Images Sources Evans, Mark. Constable's Skies. Thames & Hudson, 2018.Evans, Mark. John Constable: The Making of a Master. Victoria & Albert Museum, 2014. Cite this Article Format mla apa chicago Your Citation Lamb, Bill. "Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter." ThoughtCo, Jun. 25, 2024, thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647. Lamb, Bill. (2024, June 25). Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter. Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647 Lamb, Bill. "Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter." ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647 (accessed March 4, 2026). copy citation


--- [John Constable - Wikipedia] ---
John Constable  (; 11 June 1776 – 31 March 1837) was an English landscape painter in the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre of landscape painting with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home – now known as "Constable Country" – which he invested with an intensity of affection. "I should paint my own places best", he wrote to his friend John Fisher in 1821, "painting is but another word for feeling".
Constable's most famous paintings include Wivenhoe Park (1816), Dedham Vale (1828) and The Hay Wain (1821). Although his paintings are now among the most popular and valuable in British art, he was never financially successful. He was elected to the Royal Academy of Arts at the age of 52. His work was embraced in France, where he sold more than in his native England and inspired the Barbizon school.




--- [John Constable | Romantic Landscape Painter, English Artist - Britannica] ---
John Constable - Who was John Constable? - What kind of art was John Constable known for creating? - What landscapes or places did Constable often paint? - Why is Constable considered an important figure in British art? - What techniques did Constable use to show nature and weather in his paintings? - How did John Constable’s style influence other artists and the development of landscape painting? News • John Constable (born June 11, 1776, East Bergholt, Suffolk, England—died March 31, 1837, London) was a major figure in English landscape painting in the early 19th century. He is best known for his paintings of the English countryside, particularly those representing his native valley of the River Stour, an area that came to be known as “Constable country.” Beginnings The son of a wealthy miller and merchant who owned a substantial house and small farm, Constable was reared in a small Suffolk village. The environs of his childhood and his understanding of its rural economy would later figure prominently in his work. As he would write in 1821, “I should paint my own places best…I associate my ‘careless boyhood’ to all that lies on the banks of the Stour.” Constable was meant to enter his father’s business, but, after meeting the famous connoisseur Sir George Beaumont in 1795, and then a circle of antiquarians and connoisseurs at Edmonton in 1796, he was inspired to pursue art. In February 1799 he made himself known to the influential academician Joseph Farington, and in March he entered the prestigious Royal Academy schools, with the grudging approval of his father. At the time, art academies stressed history painting as the most appropriate subject matter for their students, but from the beginning Constable showed a particular interest in landscape. In 1802 Constable refused the stability of a post as drawing master at a military academy so that he could instead dedicate himself to landscape painting and to studying nature directly in the English countryside. That same year he exhibited his work at the Royal Academy for the first time. Despite some early explorations in oil, in the first part of this decade he preferred using watercolour and graphic media in his studies of nature. He produced fine studies in these media during a trip to the famously picturesque Lake District in autumn 1806, but his exhibitions of these works in both 1807 and 1808 were unsuccessful in attracting public notice. Early maturity Although based in London during this period, Constable would frequently make extended visits to his native East Bergholt to sketch. (On one such stay in 1809, he fell in love with Maria Bicknell, who was visiting her grandfather, the rector there.) Constable had been regularly sketching in oil since 1808, and by 1810 he had achieved extraordinary deftness with the medium (he would often be associated with his oil sketches in the future). His art became far more focused about this time: his sketches were either discrete studies, or, befitting academic practice, they were made in preparation for preconceived easel paintings. The most significant large easel painting of the period was Dedham Vale: Morning (1811), which married closely observed naturalistic effect to a scene composed according to the academic criteria established by 17th-century French painter Claude Lorrain. In September 1811 Constable stayed in Salisbury with an old family friend, the Bishop of Salisbury, and grew close to the bishop’s nephew, John Fisher. Their correspondence is a hugely informative source on Constable’s art: he explains his aims and aspirations, reacts candidly and sometimes aggressively to contemporary criticism, and reveals himself to be driven, ambitious, and prey to gnawing self-doubt. During this period, Bicknell’s family was pressuring her to end her relationship with the struggling artist, and her courtship with him had to become effectively clandestine. Constable found relief from this distraction by working in East Bergholt and, by 1814, with Boatbuilding and The Stour Valley and Dedham Village, he was painting easel pictures in the open. In his works from this period, such as Flatford Mill (1816), Constable displayed remarkable precision of touch and accuracy in description, comparable to contemporary landscapes by George Robert Lewis and John Linnell. His iconography was traditional and celebrated the continuum and stability of English country life. Constable achieved a bittersweet stability of his own when, upon his father’s death in 1816, he received an inheritance that allowed him the financial independence to marry Maria.


--- [John Constable | English Painter | Area of Design] ---
All images are copyrighted and strictly for educational and viewing purposes. Biography John Constable was born in East Bergholt, a village on the River Stour in Suffolk, to Golding and Ann Constable. His father was a wealthy corn merchant, owner of Flatford Mill in East Bergholt and, later, Dedham Mill. Golding Constable also owned his own small ship, The Telegraph, which he moored at Mistley on the Stour estuary and used to transport corn to London. Although Constable was his parents’ second son, his older brother was mentally handicapped and so John was expected to succeed his father in the business, and after a brief period at a boarding school in Lavenham, he was enrolled in a day school in Dedham. Constable worked in the corn business after leaving school, but his younger brother Abram eventually took over the running of the mills. In his youth, Constable embarked on amateur sketching trips in the surrounding Suffolk countryside that was to become the subject of a large proportion of his art. These scenes, in his own words, “made me a painter, and I am grateful”; “the sound of water escaping from mill dams etc., willows, old rotten planks, slimy posts, and brickwork, I love such things.” He was introduced to George Beaumont, a collector, who showed him his prized Hagar and the Angel by Claude Lorrain, which inspired Constable. Later, while visiting relatives in Middlesex, he was introduced to the professional artist John Thomas Smith, who advised him on painting but also urged him to remain in his father’s business rather than take up art professionally. In 1799, Constable persuaded his father to let him pursue art, and Golding even granted him a small allowance. Entering the Royal Academy Schools as a probationer, he attended life classes and anatomical dissections as well as studying and copying Old Masters. Among works that particularly inspired him during this period were paintings by Thomas Gainsborough, Claude Lorrain, Peter Paul Rubens, Annibale Carracci and Jacob van Ruisdael. He also read widely among poetry and sermons, and later proved a notably articulate artist. By 1803, he was exhibiting paintings at the Royal Academy. In 1802 he refused the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College, a move which Benjamin West (then master of the RA) counselled would mean the end of his career. In that year, Constable wrote a letter to John Dunthorne in which he spelled out his determination to become a professional landscape painter: “For the last two years I have been running after pictures, and seeking the truth at second hand. I have not endeavoured to represent nature with the same elevation of mind with which I set out, but have rather tried to make my performances look like the work of other men… There is room enough for a natural painter. The great vice of the present day is bravura, an attempt to do something beyond the truth.” His early style has many of the qualities associated with his mature work, including a freshness of light, colour and touch, and reveals the compositional influence of the Old Masters he had studied, notably of Claude Lorrain. Constable’s usual subjects, scenes of ordinary daily life, were unfashionable in an age that looked for more romantic visions of wild landscapes and ruins. He did, however, make occasional trips further afield. For example, in 1803 he spent almost a month aboard the East Indiaman ship Coutts as it visited south-east coastal ports, and in 1806 he undertook a two-month tour of the Lake District. But he told his friend and biographer Charles Leslie that the solitude of the mountains oppressed his spirits; Leslie went on to write: “His nature was peculiarly social and could not feel satisfied with scenery, however grand in itself, that did not abound in human associations. He required villages, churches, farmhouses and cottages.” In order to make ends meet, Constable took up portraiture, which he found dull work-though he executed many fine portraits. He also painted occasional religious pictures, but according to John Walker, “Constable’s incapacity as a religious painter cannot be overstated.”Constable adopted a routine of spending the winter in London and painting at East Bergholt in the summer. And in 1811 he first visited John Fisher and his family in Salisbury, a city whose cathedral and surrounding landscape were to inspire some of his greatest paintings. From 1809 onwards, his childhood friendship with Maria Bicknell developed into a deep, mutual love. But their engagement in 1816 was opposed by Maria’s grandfather, Dr Rhudde, rector of East Bergholt, who considered the Constables his social inferiors and threatened Maria with disinheritance. Maria’s father, Charles Bicknell, a solicitor, was reluctant to see Maria throw away this inheritance, and Maria herself pointed out that a penniless marriage would detract from any chances John had of making a career in painting. Golding and Ann Constable, while approving the match, held out no prospect of supporting the marriage until Constable was financially secure; but they died in quick succession, and Constable inherited a fifth share in the family business.John and Maria’s marriage in October 1816 was followed by a honeymoon tour of the south coast, where the sea at Weymouth and Brighton stimulated Constable to develop new techniques of brilliant colour and vivacious brushwork. At the same time, a greater emotional range began to register in his art. Although he had scraped an income from painting, it was not until 1819 that Constable sold his first important canvas, The White Horse, which led to a series of “six footers”, as he called his large-scale paintings. He was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy that year, and in 1821 he showed The Hay Wain (a view from Flatford Mill) at the Academy’s exhibition. Theodore Gericault saw it on a visit to London and was soon praising Constable in Paris, where a dealer, John Arrowsmith, bought four paintings, including The Hay Wain, which was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1824, winning a gold medal. Of Constable’s colour, Delacroix wrote in his journal: “What he says here about the green of his meadows can be applied to every tone”. Delacroix repainted the background of his 1824 Massacre de Scio after seeing the Constables at Arrowsmith’s Gallery, which he said had done him a great deal of good. In his lifetime Constable was to sell only twenty paintings in England, but in France he sold more than twenty in just a few years. Despite this, he refused all invitations to travel internationally to promote his work, writing to Francis Darby: “I would rather be a poor man [in England] than a rich man abroad.” In 1825, perhaps due partly to the worry of his wife’s ill-health, the uncongeniality of living in Brighton (“Piccadilly by the Seaside”), and the pressure of numerous outstanding commissions, he quarrelled with Arrowsmith and lost his French outlet. After the birth of her seventh child in January 1828, Maria fell ill and died of tuberculosis that November at the age of forty-one. Intensely saddened, Constable wrote to his brother Golding, “hourly do I feel the loss of my departed Angel-God only knows how my children will be brought up… the face of the World is totally changed to me”. Thereafter, he always dressed in black and was, according to Leslie, “a prey to melancholy and anxious thoughts”. He cared for his seven children alone for the rest of his life. Shortly before her death, Maria’s father had died, leaving her pound 20,000. Constable speculated disastrously with this money, paying for the engraving of several mezzotints of some of his landscapes in preparation for a publication. He was hesitant and indecisive, nearly fell out with his engraver, and when the folios were published, could not interest enough subscribers. Constable collaborated closely with the talented mezzotinter David Lucas on some 40 prints after his landscapes, one of which went through 13 proof stages, corrected by Constable in pencil and paint. Constable said, “Lucas showed me to the public without my faults”, but the venture was not a financial success. He was elected to the Royal Academy in February 1829, at the age of 52, and in 1831 was appointed Visitor at the Royal Academy, where he seems to have been popular with the students. He also began to deliver public lectures on the history of landscape painting, which were attended by distinguished audiences. In a series of such lectures at the Royal Institution, Constable proposed a threefold thesis: firstly, landscape painting is scientific as well as poetic; secondly, the imagination cannot alone produce art to bear comparison with reality; and thirdly, no great painter was ever self-taught. He also later spoke against the new Gothic Revival movement, which he considered mere “imitation”. In 1835, his last lecture to the students of the RA, in which he praised Raphael and called the R.A. the “cradle of British art”, was “cheered most heartily”. He died on the night of the 31st March, apparently from indigestion, and was buried with Maria in the graveyard of St John-at-Hampstead, Hampstead. (His children John Charles Constable and Charles Golding Constable are also buried in this family tomb.) (From Wikipedia) Source: www.john-constable.org


--- [John Constable Biography In Details] ---
John Constable Biography In Details Early career John Constable (11 June 1776 – 31 March 1837) was born in East Bergholt, a village on the River Stour in Suffolk, to Golding and Ann Constable. His father was a wealthy corn merchant, owner of Flatford Mill in East Bergholt and, later, Dedham Mill. Golding Constable also owned his own small ship, The Telegraph, which he moored at Mistley on the Stour estuary and used to transport corn to London. Although Constable was his parents' second son, his older brother was mentally handicapped and so John was expected to succeed his father in the business, and after a brief period at a boarding school in Lavenham, he was enrolled in a day school in Dedham. Constable worked in the corn business after leaving school, but his younger brother Abram eventually took over the running of the mills. In his youth, Constable embarked on amateur sketching trips in the surrounding Suffolk countryside that was to become the subject of a large proportion of his art. These scenes, in his own words, "made me a painter, and I am grateful"; "the sound of water escaping from mill dams etc., willows, old rotten planks, slimy posts, and brickwork, I love such things." He was introduced to George Beaumont, a collector, who showed him his prized Hagar and the Angel by Claude Lorrain, which inspired Constable. Later, while visiting relatives in Middlesex, he was introduced to the professional artist John Thomas Smith, who advised him on painting but also urged him to remain in his father's business rather than take up art professionally. In 1799, Constable persuaded his father to let him pursue art, and Golding even granted him a small allowance. Entering the Royal Academy Schools as a probationer, he attended life classes and anatomical dissections as well as studying and copying Old Masters. Among works that particularly inspired him during this period were paintings by Thomas Gainsborough, Claude Lorrain, Peter Paul Rubens, Annibale Carracci and Jacob van Ruisdael. He also read widely among poetry and sermons, and later proved a notably articulate artist. By 1803, he was exhibiting paintings at the Royal Academy. In 1802 he refused the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College, a move which Benjamin West (then master of the RA) counselled would mean the end of his career. In that year, Constable wrote a letter to John Dunthorne in which he spelled out his determination to become a professional landscape painter: "For the last two years I have been running after pictures, and seeking the truth at second hand. I have not endeavoured to represent nature with the same elevation of mind with which I set out, but have rather tried to make my performances look like the work of other men... There is room enough for a natural painter. The great vice of the present day is bravura, an attempt to do something beyond the truth." His early style has many of the qualities associated with his mature work, including a freshness of light, colour and touch, and reveals the compositional influence of the Old Masters he had studied, notably of Claude Lorrain. Constable's usual subjects, scenes of ordinary daily life, were unfashionable in an age that looked for more romantic visions of wild landscapes and ruins. He did, however, make occasional trips further afield. For example, in 1803 he spent almost a month aboard the East Indiaman ship Coutts as it visited south-east coastal ports, and in 1806 he undertook a two-month tour of the Lake District. But he told his friend and biographer Charles Leslie that the solitude of the mountains oppressed his spirits; Leslie went on to write: "His nature was peculiarly social and could not feel satisfied with scenery, however grand in itself, that did not abound in human associations. He required villages, churches, farmhouses and cottages." In order to make ends meet, Constable took up portraiture, which he found dull work-though he executed many fine portraits. He also painted occasional religious pictures, but according to John Walker, "Constable's incapacity as a religious painter cannot be overstated." Constable adopted a routine of spending the winter in London and painting at East Bergholt in the summer. And in 1811 he first visited John Fisher and his family in Salisbury, a city whose cathedral and surrounding landscape were to inspire some of his greatest paintings. Marriage and maturity From 1809 onwards, his childhood friendship with Maria Bicknell developed into a deep, mutual love. But their engagement in 1816 was opposed by Maria's grandfather, Dr Rhudde, rector of East Bergholt, who considered the Constables his social inferiors and threatened Maria with disinheritance. Maria's father, Charles Bicknell, a solicitor, was reluctant to see Maria throw away this inheritance, and Maria herself pointed out that a penniless marriage would detract from any chances John had of making a career in painting. Golding and Ann Constable, while approving the match, held out no prospect of supporting the marriage until Constable was financially secure; but they died in quick succession, and Constable inherited a fifth share in the family business.John and Maria's marriage in October 1816 was followed by a honeymoon tour of the south coast, where the sea at Weymouth and Brighton stimulated Constable to develop new techniques of brilliant colour and vivacious brushwork. At the same time, a greater emotional range began to register in his art. Although he had scraped an income from painting, it was not until 1819 that Constable sold his first important canvas, The White Horse, which led to a series of "six footers", as he called his large-scale paintings. He was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy that year, and in 1821 he showed The Hay Wain (a view from Flatford Mill) at the Academy's exhibition. Theodore Gericault saw it on a visit to London and was soon praising Constable in Paris, where a dealer, John Arrowsmith, bought four paintings, including The Hay Wain, which was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1824, winning a gold medal. Of Constable's colour, Delacroix wrote in his journal: "What he says here about the green of his meadows can be applied to every tone". Delacroix repainted the background of his 1824 Massacre de Scio after seeing the Constables at Arrowsmith's Gallery, which he said had done him a great deal of good. In his lifetime Constable was to sell only twenty paintings in England, but in France he sold more than twenty in just a few years. Despite this, he refused all invitations to travel internationally to promote his work, writing to Francis Darby: "I would rather be a poor man [in England] than a rich man abroad." In 1825, perhaps due partly to the worry of his wife's ill-health, the uncongeniality of living in Brighton ("Piccadilly by the Seaside"), and the pressure of numerous outstanding commissions, he quarrelled with Arrowsmith and lost his French outlet. After the birth of her seventh child in January 1828, Maria fell ill and died of tuberculosis that November at the age of forty-one. Intensely saddened, Constable wrote to his brother Golding, "hourly do I feel the loss of my departed Angel-God only knows how my children will be brought up... the face of the World is totally changed to me". Thereafter, he always dressed in black and was, according to Leslie, "a prey to melancholy and anxious thoughts". He cared for his seven children alone for the rest of his life. Shortly before her death, Maria's father had died, leaving her pound 20,000. Constable speculated disastrously with this money, paying for the engraving of several mezzotints of some of his landscapes in preparation for a publication. He was hesitant and indecisive, nearly fell out with his engraver, and when the folios were published, could not interest enough subscribers. Constable collaborated closely with the talented mezzotinter David Lucas on some 40 prints after his landscapes, one of which went through 13 proof stages, corrected by Constable in pencil and paint. Constable said, "Lucas showed me to the public without my faults", but the venture was not a financial success. He was elected to the Royal Academy in February 1829, at the age of 52, and in 1831 was appointed Visitor at the Royal Academy, where he seems to have been popular with the students. He also began to deliver public lectures on the history of landscape painting, which were attended by distinguished audiences. In a series of such lectures at the Royal Institution, Constable proposed a threefold thesis: firstly, landscape painting is scientific as well as poetic; secondly, the imagination cannot alone produce art to bear comparison with reality; and thirdly, no great painter was ever self-taught. He also later spoke against the new Gothic Revival movement, which he considered mere "imitation". In 1835, his last lecture to the students of the RA, in which he praised Raphael and called the R.A. the "cradle of British art", was "cheered most heartily". He died on the night of the 31st March, apparently from indigestion, and was buried with Maria in the graveyard of St John-at-Hampstead, Hampstead. (His children John Charles Constable and Charles Golding Constable are also buried in this family tomb.) (From Wikipedia)
