=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook]
Denise Linn’s personal journey began as a result of a near-death experience at age 17. Her life-changing experiences and remarkable recovery set her on a spiritual quest that led her to explore the healing traditions of many cultures, including those of her own Cherokee ancestors, the Aborigines in the Australian bush, and the Zulus in ...
URL: https://www.amazon.com/Time-Travelers-Oracle-44-Card-Guidebook/dp/1401972462

[Cards by Denise - Denise Linn]
The Time Traveler’s Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook A mystical adventure through space and time beckons you! Each journey through The Time Traveler’s Oracle can activate secret messages from the depths of your soul—and from the Universe.
URL: https://deniselinnseminars.com/market/cards/

[The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook]
The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook Cards – 25 June 2024 by Denise Linn (Author) 4.7 (247)
URL: https://www.amazon.com.au/Time-Travelers-Oracle-44-Card-Guidebook/dp/1401972462

[The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook]
The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook. 144. by Denise Linn Denise Linn. View More.
URL: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-time-travelers-oracle-denise-linn/1143968662

[The Time Traveler's Oracle by Denise Linn: 9781401972462 ...]
The Time Traveler's Oracle A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook By Denise Linn Merchandise – Cards $24.99
URL: https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/739657/the-time-travelers-oracle-by-denise-linn/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook] ---
Click the button below to continue shopping Continue shopping Conditions of Use Privacy Policy © 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates


--- [Cards by Denise - Denise Linn] ---
A mystical adventure through space and time beckons you! Each journey through The Time Traveler’s Oracle can activate secret messages from the depths of your soul—and from the Universe. Simply stepping through the space-time continuum sparks profound, positive shifts and changes within you. Time traveling–which is the ability to travel from one temporal locale to another–beckons us to learn and grow. While traditionally we think of this as a journey into the past or future, from a spiritual perspective, it can also be lateral travel into a different locale at a different time. It’s a sacred pilgrimage that allows you to see the world, the Universe, and yourself with new meaning and new perspectives. From the earliest history of humankind, people turned to visionaries to gain insight into their lives, and these seers stepped through mystic gateways into other realms–and other time periods–to bring back answers and give meaning to the seemingly random events of life. These seers were the earliest time travelers. It’s no longer necessary to turn to a seer; you have the innate capacity to travel through divine entryways to obtain an understanding of the circumstances of your life. Deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you, and find the long-sought answers to your most heartfelt questions, as you take an extraordinary voyage to different locales and time periods. Using the power of your consciousness/imagination–with oracle cards as guideposts along the way–you will be transported to powerful sites, such as: - The Venice Renaissance in Italy - Uluru in Australia - The River Nile in Egypt - The Amazon Rainforest in Brazil - The Taj Mahal in India - The Northern Lights in Iceland - A Zen Monastery in Japan, and so much more. Denise’s Other Oracle Decks Sacred Forest Oracle Deck Meet nature spirits and discover the hidden realms of the Sacred Forest with 52 oracle cards and guided meditation audios from best-selling author Denise Linn. Each card in this oracle deck is a special key that opens an energy portal to the Sacred Forest, a sacred realm similar to the legends of Tibetan Shambhala, the Mists of Avalon, and the Australian Dreamtime. Over the years, transformational teacher Denise Linn has used guided meditations to lead thousands of people into this magical dimension. Now, with this oracle, you can expand your consciousness and chart your own course through the vast mysteries and wonders of this inner landscape. Colorful and intricately layered art adorn each of the 52 cards with depictions of ancient nature spirits and guardians of the realm. Storm Spirit invites you to embrace chaos; the Enchanted Fern Grotto offers refuge. The cards tap into natural forces and your own inner knowledge to shed light on answers to long-sought questions. Sacred Destiny “You have a sacred destiny; we all do. …” From the earliest history of mankind, there are records of native people using the signs in nature to determine their destiny. Wise elders were able to move through mystic gateways into inner realms, and bring back wisdom and guidance to their tribes. In this powerful oracle card deck, Denise Linn draws from her Native American heritage and experience as a gifted healer and teacher. With each card, you receive access to a different gateway, from our earthly realm to the one of Spirit. From forests to floodplains, meadows to caves, shimmering sunshine to the dark mysteries of the moon–these vibrant cards will fill your days with messages of Spirt, from the landscapes within and around us. May your inner guidance awaken, and may the wisdom of the native spirit unfold within your life! Read More Native Spirit Oracle Cards This deck profoundly deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you. Created by Denise Linn, an enrolled member of the Cherokee tribe and the best-selling author of the books Quest and Kindling the Native Spirit, this 44-card deck with companion guidebook holds the keys to unlocking a wondrous realm where you’ll discover what destiny has in store for you. These oracle cards were birthed at the base of a sacred mountain, and they carry the mystical energy that surrounded their birthing. Each card opens a gateway so that you can powerfully and immediately discern your own unique, secret messages from the Universe. Gateway Oracle Cards Denise Linn is the founder of the Gateway Dreaming certification. This deck holds the keys to unlocking the ancient wisdom within you. They reveal a wondrous realm where you’ll discover what destiny has in store for you and also learn how to give accurate, heartfelt readings to others. This deck and accompanying guidebook help you interpret the signs that are all around you, from your nightly dreams to the coincidences, synchronicities, and symbols in your waking life. The Universe is always whispering to you, and the Gateway Oracle Cards assist you in understanding these secret messages from the realm of Spirit. An enchanted voyage awaits you. The keys through the gateway are in your hands! Sacred Traveler There are secret messages all around you; it’s simply a matter of being able to hear them. In this graceful and elegant card deck, best-selling author Denise Linn guides you in understanding the events, signs, and coincidences in your life, leading you toward a personal and spiritual transformation. Denise’s sage guidance helps you transcend and activate your intuition, realize your life’s purpose and potential, and achieve a genuine state of peace. These Sacred Traveler Oracle Cards assist you to step behind the mystic veil into hallowed dimensions that will align your inner spiritual existence with your outer life. Each card interprets the signs that are around you and deciphers the secret messages of the universe—from Answering the Call to Discovering Truth to Infinite Abundance, and more! Use these cards every day and you’ll discover what destiny has in store for you. Your journey starts now . . . Soul Coaching® Oracle Cards **This orginal artwork deck is no longer in print, however the new Soul Coaching(R) Oracle Card deck has the same messages, with beautiful new artwork** This first deck from Denise can be used to give yourself, your loved ones, and your clients remarkably accurate, heartfelt readings . . . as well as help you touch the sacred place within. You’ll come to understand what your Soul wants you to know about your relationships, your career, your creativity, and even your future. Every card glows with beautiful artwork and a positive message that can help you receive profound spiritual guidance from your higher self! Soul Coaching® Oracle Card Reader Certification Course Denise Linn created this certification of Oracle Card readers as a way to honor that each client truly knows their own truth, and readers can assist them in finding that inner wisdom. She trained some of her Soul Coaching® practitioners to be Certified Card Readers, and then created a more in depth course of study, with these graduates becoming Master Oracle Card Readers. Learn more about becoming certified, or find a reader who has been trained in her methods Audio Meditation CD’s Denise loves to lead people on guided journeys, and has been consider the cosmic DJ who can lead people into phenomenal life changes with these meditations. These are just a few that she has done over the years. 33 Spirit Journeys – Meditations to Live More Fully, Deeply, and Peacefully Each meditation and visualization in this remarkable CD program serves a specific purpose, helping you expand your awareness, deepen your intuition, transcend limiting thought patterns, and activate your ability to manifest your dreams. Using calming music, powerful relaxation techniques, and Denise Linn’s soothing voice, every life-enhancing Spirit Journey clears and harmonizes the mental, physical, and emotional bodies of your energy field. Embarking on these sacred inner journeys supports you in creating a lasting communion with your spirit helpers and guardian angels on the other side, as well as balancing your chakras. You can listen to each of the journeys individually, or use them sequentially for maximum effect. Journeys into Past Lives Denise Linn has devised a process that can put you in touch with past lives, even if you don’t believe in them! The benefits are enormous. The past lives you experience using these potent techniques and guided meditation processes can contribute to healing, self-improvement, and transformation. You can also find out what past lives you shared with the loved ones in your present life.


--- [The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook] ---
Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet or computer—no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera, scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Follow the author OK The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook Cards – 25 June 2024 Time traveling--which is the ability to travel from one temporal locale to another--beckons us to learn and grow. While traditionally we think of this as a journey into the past or future, from a spiritual perspective, it can also be lateral travel into a different locale at a different time. It's a sacred pilgrimage that allows you to see the world, the Universe, and yourself with new meaning and new perspectives. From the earliest history of humankind, people turned to visionaries to gain insight into their lives, and these seers stepped through mystic gateways into other realms--and other time periods--to bring back answers and give meaning to the seemingly random events of life. These seers were the earliest time travelers. It's no longer necessary to turn to a seer; you have the innate capacity to travel through divine entryways to obtain an understanding of the circumstances of your life. Deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you, and find the long-sought answers to your most heartfelt questions, as you take an extraordinary voyage to different locales and time periods. Using the power of your consciousness/imagination--with oracle cards as guideposts along the way--you will be transported to powerful sites, such as- The Venice Renaissance in Italy Uluru in Australia The River Nile in Egypt The Amazon Rainforest in Brazil The Taj Mahal in India The Northern Lights in Iceland A Zen Monastery in Japan, and so much more. These oracle cards can help you deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you, as well as to the far past of our planet and beyond . . . and provide profound inner wisdom. Whether they take you to an event in history or a general locale on the planet, each trip carries a personal message for you, such as creativity, growth, courage, patience, and more. The cards can be used to gain information about the future, help you make decisions, show you where you are presently, and help you discover your inner truth. - Print length144 pages - LanguageEnglish - PublisherHay House - Publication date25 June 2024 - Reading age14 years and up - Dimensions10.01 x 3.96 x 13.82 cm - ISBN-101401972462 - ISBN-13978-1401972462 Products related to this item From the brand From the Publisher Using these cards you'll be able to: - Gain information about the future, make informed decisions, and discover your inner truth. - Gather insights in the most challenging situations. - Call upon the energy of the natural world and history to provide answers to the heartfelt yearnings of your soul. Product description Review About the Author Denise is an internationally renowned teacher in the field of self-development. She has written 19 books, which are available in 29 languages, including the bestseller Sacred Space and the award-winning Feng Shui for the Soul. Denise has appeared in numerous documentaries and television shows worldwide, and is the founder of the Red Lotus Mystery School, which offers professional certification programs. For information about Denise's certification programs and lectures, please visit her website- www.DeniseLinn.com. Product details - Publisher : Hay House - Publication date : 25 June 2024 - Language : English - Print length : 144 pages - ISBN-10 : 1401972462 - ISBN-13 : 978-1401972462 - Item weight : 1.05 kg - Reading age : 14 years and up - Dimensions : 10.01 x 3.96 x 13.82 cm - Best Sellers Rank: 97,662 in Books (See Top 100 in Books) - 276 in Fortune Telling - 408 in Tarot - Customer Reviews: About the author Denise Linn has written 21 books, including the best-selling, "Sacred Space," Her books have been translated into 29 languages, and she has been a featured guest on Oprah, Lifetime, Discovery Channel, BBC TV, NBC and CBS and has taught in 25 countries. She currently spends her time with her online community, The Mystic Café. She believes that the soul loves the truth, so she’s continually striving to seek the truth in her own life and encourages others to seek it in theirs. Denise and her husband, David, live on Star Mountain Ranch in Northern California with their two German Shepards and their three-legged cat. Products related to this item Customer reviews Top reviews from Australia There was a problem filtering reviews. Please reload the page. - Reviewed in Australia on 11 November 2024Format: CardsVerified PurchaseLove them nothing more to say - Reviewed in Australia on 11 August 2024Format: CardsVerified PurchaseBeautiful cards. Solid and come in box with guidebook. Top reviews from other countries - T.H. van ReeReviewed in the Netherlands on 8 June 2024 4.0 out of 5 stars Prachtige kaarten Format: CardsVerified PurchaseKaart Deck met omschrijving van locatie en een begeleidend bericht - michelineReviewed in Brazil on 3 January 2026 5.0 out of 5 stars Excelente Format: CardsVerified PurchaseO Oráculo é lindíssimo, com mensagens maravilhosas, e o material excelente. Já tenho um outro da mesma autora - The Sacred Forest - que Tb é um conselheiro maravilhoso, adoro, e é lindo e profundo como esse. Super recomendo. - A.ZReviewed in the United Kingdom on 3 February 2025 5.0 out of 5 stars Lovely artwork! Format: CardsVerified PurchaseAn interesting way of depicting familiar situations. The artwork is beautiful, and the cards very appealing. Linking to the past is a novel take…I’m not sure how much it adds to the message, which is fairly familiar, but it’s a nice idea and leads to some great images! Glad I bought, anyway!


--- [The Time Traveler's Oracle: A 44-Card Deck and Guidebook] ---
No content


--- [The Time Traveler's Oracle by Denise Linn: 9781401972462 ...] ---
A mystical adventure through space and time beckons you! Each journey through The Time Traveler’s Oracle can activate secret messages from the depths of your soul—and from the Universe. Simply stepping through the space-time continuum sparks profound, positive shifts and changes within you.Time traveling–which is the ability to travel from one temporal locale to another–beckons us to learn and grow. While traditionally we think of this as a journey into the past or future, from a spiritual perspective, it can also be lateral travel into a different locale at a different time. It’s a sacred pilgrimage that allows you to see the world, the Universe, and yourself with new meaning and new perspectives. From the earliest history of humankind, people turned to visionaries to gain insight into their lives, and these seers stepped through mystic gateways into other realms–and other time periods–to bring back answers and give meaning to the seemingly random events of life. These seers were the earliest time travelers. It’s no longer necessary to turn to a seer; you have the innate capacity to travel through divine entryways to obtain an understanding of the circumstances of your life. Deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you, and find the long-sought answers to your most heartfelt questions, as you take an extraordinary voyage to different locales and time periods. Using the power of your consciousness/imagination–with oracle cards as guideposts along the way–you will be transported to powerful sites, such as: - The Venice Renaissance in Italy - Uluru in Australia - The River Nile in Egypt - The Amazon Rainforest in Brazil - The Taj Mahal in India - The Northern Lights in Iceland - A Zen Monastery in Japan, and so much more. These oracle cards can help you deepen your connection to the mysterious, natural forces around you, as well as to the far past of our planet and beyond . . . and provide profound inner wisdom. Whether they take you to an event in history or a general locale on the planet, each trip carries a personal message for you, such as creativity, growth, courage, patience, and more. The cards can be used to gain information about the future, help you make decisions, show you where you are presently, and help you discover your inner truth.
