=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez - Wikipedia]
In a unanimous decision the Supreme Court ruled in favor for Marquez. Justice Elena Kagan wrote the majority, in which all Justices joined, except Justice Clarence Thomas in Footnote 4 of the majority opinion.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lomax_v._Ortiz-Marquez

[Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez | 590 U.S. ___ (2020) | Justia U.S ...]
Oct 18, 2019 · Petitioner Arthur Lomax, an inmate in a Colorado prison, filed this suit against respondent prison officials to challenge his expulsion from the facility’s sex-offender treatment program.
URL: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/590/18-8369/

[Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez | Oyez]
Oct 18, 2019 · Advocates Brian T. Burgess for the Petitioner Eric R. Olson for the Respondents Jeffrey A. Rosen for the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents
URL: https://www.oyez.org/cases/2019/18-8369

[IMLA Legal Advocacy Program]
In Nieves, the Supreme Court held that probable cause defeats a First Amendment retaliatory arrest claim as a matter of law, except in a small subset of cases.
URL: https://imla.org/legal-advocacy/

[LOMAX v. ORTIZ-MARQUEZ ET AL. (2020) | FindLaw]
Feb 26, 2020 · Petitioner Arthur Lomax, an inmate in a Colorado prison, filed this suit against respondent prison officials to challenge his expulsion from the facility's sex-offender treatment program.
URL: https://caselaw.findlaw.com/court/us-supreme-court/18-8369.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez - Wikipedia] ---
Arthur James Lomax v. Christina Ortiz-Marquez et al., 590 U.S. ___ (2020) was a Supreme Court case in which the court held that in situations and proceedings in which a prisoner is filing to proceed In forma pauperis, as it pertains to the "3 strikes" system set out in 28 U.S.C. § 1915(g), a dismissal without prejudice counts for failure to state a claim counts as a "strike. The court held this in a unanimous decision, although Justice Thomas joined the majority in all but Footnote 4 of the opinion.


--- [Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez | 590 U.S. ___ (2020) | Justia U.S ...] ---
No content


--- [Lomax v. Ortiz-Marquez | Oyez] ---
No content


--- [IMLA Legal Advocacy Program] ---
Filing Date: August 4, 2023 (Ninth Circuit) Tucson v. City of Seattle Pro Bono Author: Charlene Koski The City of Seattle seeks IMLA’s amicus support in the City’s enforcement of its anti-graffiti ordinance. Facts: In January 2021, Plaintiffs wrote political messages, some of which were critical of the Seattle Police Department (SPD), in sidewalk chalk and charcoal on “eco-block” walls that were temporarily erected by the City outside of the SPD’s East Precinct. SPD officers arrested all four Plaintiffs for violating Seattle Municipal Code 12A.08.020 (Ordinance), which stated: - A person is guilty of property destruction if he or she: - Intentionally damages the property of another; or - Writes, paints, or draws any inscription, figure, or mark of any type on any public or private building or other structure or any real or personal property owned by any other person. The Ordinance provided that it was an affirmative defense to property destruction if the actor reasonably believed that he had a lawful right to damage such property or if he had obtained the express permission of the owner or operator of the building, structure, or property. Plaintiffs pursued First, Fourth, and Fourteenth Amendment claims under 42 U.S.C. § 1983, brought Monell claims against the City, and sought injunctive relief, alleging that the Ordinance was overbroad, vague, and had been selectively enforced against them due to their messaging, chilling their use of chalk to express their views on public sidewalks and barriers built over the public sidewalk. Proceedings: The Federal District Court for the Western District of Washington granted the preliminary injunction, finding that the Plaintiffs were likely to succeed on the merits: Here, the Ordinance plainly targets expressive speech in a real and substantial way that infringes on Plaintiffs’ First Amendment right to free expression. The Ordinance criminalizes “[w]riting, paint[ing], or draw[ing] any inscription, figure, or mark of any type.” SMC 12A.08.020. This appears overbroad on its face. And although the Ordinance also criminalizes “property destruction,” it equally targets speech. As such, it has a close enough nexus to expression that it poses a real and substantial threat of censorship. The court disagreed with the City that the Ordinance was a narrowly tailored and legitimate “manner” regulation of speech: The purported need to prevent property destruction could be accomplished without a provision criminalizing speech in public areas without permission. The Ordinance is not narrowly tailored to serve the government interest of avoiding property damage or “visual blight.” And the Ordinance provides no guidance as to how an individual might apply for or obtain “express” permission from the City to engage in sidewalk chalking. Despite the City’s argument that it had never enforced the Ordinance in any of various trivial ways hypothesized by the Plaintiffs, the court found that the Ordinance was impermissibly vague, failing to apprise the public as to what constitutes “damage” and allowing for random and open-ended enforcement. And while the court acknowledged the City’s public interest in avoiding blight, that interest was subordinate to the value of unfettered First Amendment expression. The City has appealed the district court result to the Ninth Circuit. Filing Date: June 15, 2023 (Supreme Court of Idaho) Van Wandruszka v. City of Moscow Pro Bono Author: Rob McQuade The city of Moscow, Idaho (City) operates a public water system. Historically, the City held property owners responsible for non-payment of water bills by tenants at their properties. But the Idaho Supreme Court held in City of Grangeville v. Haskin, 116 Idaho 535, 777 P.2d 1208 (1989), that due to lack of privity, owners had no implied obligation to pay the water bills of a tenant. Since then, the City faced pushback from property owners when trying to collect unpaid balances where tenants failed to pay and incurred increasing delinquencies. As a solution, in February 2021 the City Council passed resolution 2021-01, requiring property owners to complete a “Moscow Utility Billing Application for Use of City Utility Services” (Application). On the Application, property owners request services at a specific address and acknowledge their legal responsibility for balances assessed there, regardless of who uses the service. The City gave property owners more than nine months’ notice to comply, requiring Applications to be submitted by December 15, 2021; water would thereafter be shut off to all addresses for which no Application had been received, regardless of whether the subject properties were in arrears. The plaintiffs, who own their residence as well as other properties which they lease to various tenants, none of whom were in arrears, filed the Applications “under duress” on December 14, 2021. The plaintiffs sought summary judgment to invalidate the Application program because (1) it is “unreasonable and coercive” by empowering the City to place a lien on non-paying properties; and (2) “Idaho law does not authorize the City to hold a non-user responsible for unpaid utility bills” (citing Haskin). The City also moved for summary judgment, based on its authority to provide public utilities and implement payment mechanisms as granted by the Idaho Constitution, Idaho Code, and the City Code. The City further argued that the Applications resolve the Haskin prohibition against implied payment duties by creating property owners’ express contractual commitments. The District Court of Latah County denied the City’s Summary Judgment motion and partially granted the property owners’ motion, limited to properties where the owner is not consuming the water: IC §§ 50-323 and 50-1030(f) do not give the City implied power to collect from the owner for charges incurred by the tenants. As such, the City is prohibited from requiring the owners of property to enter into a contract under duress if the property owner is not the consumer of the water. Filing Date: January 2023 (Ninth Circuit) El Papel, LLC v. City of Seattle Pro Bono Author: Rachel Fried This case arises out of the State of Washington and the City of Seattle’s eviction moratoria that were enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Both moratoria prohibited evicting tenants for failure to pay rent for a period of time unless the tenant presented an imminent threat to the health or safety of neighbors or the landlord. Additionally, such unpaid rent could not be treated as a currently owing or collectable enforceable debt until the landlord and tenant were provided with an opportunity to resolve the nonpayment of rent through a rental assistance program and landlords could not collect late fees. Plaintiffs are landlords who sued the City for violating the Contracts Clause and the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. They claim that the tenants owe thousands of dollars of unpaid rent and (for one tenant) against whom, “[b]ut for the Defendants’ eviction moratoria,” they would have initiated eviction proceedings. The district court found in favor of the City and State on both claims. In terms of the Contracts Clause claim, the district court agreed with the City and State that the moratoria did not forgive any debt obligations, instead it delayed the ability on the part of the landlords to collect the unpaid rent or evict tenants for a period of time. The district court reasoned: Allowing defaulted tenants additional time to repay amounts due is adequately tailored to the City’s goal of preventing evictions and homelessness, as well as corresponding potential to cause a spike in the COVID-19 pandemic. And for similar reasons as discussed above in the context of the eviction moratoria, this defense does not violate the Contracts Clause, either. In terms of their Takings claim, plaintiffs argue that the eviction restrictions constitute a physical taking “by compelling landlords to house tenants who no longer satisfy lease terms, including tenants whose leases have already expired.” The district court rejected this argument, concluding that Supreme Court precedent forecloses this argument. See Yee v. City of Escondido, 503 U.S. 519, 522 (1992). In foreclosing the physical taking argument in Yee, the Supreme Court held: [The park owners] voluntarily rented their land to mobile homeowners…. Put bluntly, no government has required any physical invasion of petitioners’ property. [The] tenants were invited by [the owners], not forced upon them by the government…. On their face, the state and local laws at issue here merely regulate [the owners’] use of their land by regulating the relationship between landlord and tenant. This Court has consistently affirmed that States have broad power to regulate housing conditions in general and the landlord-tenant relationship in particular without paying compensation for all economic injuries that such regulation entails. Id. at 528–29 (internal citations and quotation marks omitted). The plaintiffs argued that the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid supports their arguments that the City’s actions constituted a physical taking of their property. The district court rejected this argument, concluding that Cedar Point was readily distinguishable given that the regulation in that case required the property owners to allow access to union activity by third parties, whereas in this case, the landlords had voluntarily invited the tenants to rent their property. And while the landlords temporarily lost the ability to evict the tenants, the City and State did not forgive the unpaid rent. The issue in this case is whether the City’s eviction moratorium violated the Takings Clause or Contracts Clause of the US Constitution Filing Date: February 21, 2023 (Fourth Circuit) City of Huntington v. AmerisourceBergin Pro Bono Author: Carl Cecere Local governments around the country have sought to hold drug manufacturers, distributors, and pharmacies accountable for their role in fueling the opioid crisis, bringing claims under public nuisance laws, among other things. Most states and their local governments were included in the $26 billion settlement by the “Big Three” distributors (Amerisource Bergin, McKesson, and Cardinal Health) and J&J, and other local governments joined in subsequent settlements with the Big Three. Huntington and Cabell County, West Virginia did not join, and continued to pursue their claims. Earlier this year, Judge Faber delivered his decision in the Track Three opioid bellwether case in the Southern District of West Virginia, finding that none of the Big Three distributors bore responsibility for contributing to the opioid crisis in Huntington (case no. 3:17-01362) and Cabell County (case no. 3:17-01665). Judge Faber found insufficient evidence of wrongdoing by the distributors and held that West Virginia’s public nuisance law did not apply to an otherwise legally-manufactured product. Huntington is now appealing that outcome to the Fourth Circuit. As indicated above, many jurisdictions have already settled their opioid cases, whether against distributors, manufacturers, or pharmacies. But numerous other cases continue, including in various state courts. The opioid epidemic has cost local governments collectively billions of dollars in seeking to remediate the public health consequences of the epidemic and has devastated whole communities. We believe this case is important to participate in, given the enormity of the epidemic and the fact that local governments are more likely to sue others for creating a public nuisance than to be sued themselves under those laws. Filing Date: December 29, 2022 (Fifth Circuit) Baker v. City of McKinney Pro Bono Author: Michelle Voirin, Justin Johnson & Timothy Dunn Vicki Baker (Baker) seeks recovery for damage caused by McKinney Texas (City) police as they attempted to arrest a criminal suspect hiding in her home with a 15-year-old female hostage. Baker’s adult daughter had answered the door, recognized the suspect, and allowed the two to enter. The daughter then left the home to call Baker; and they both summoned local police for help. Police surrounded the home, and the suspect released the hostage. She informed them that the suspect had several guns and did not intend to come out alive. Officers followed standard procedures to compel the suspect to vacate, pushing open the front door, forcibly removing the garage door, knocking down part of the backyard fence, and firing gas canisters through windows and other areas. While the police actions were lawful and proper, they caused damage to the home. The suspect took his own life in a bedroom at some point during the police activities. Baker filed suit to recover approximately $50,000, in the meantime making repairs to the home using homeowner’s insurance payments, donations of money and items from friends and a GoFundMe account, and some of her own money. Counsel estimates that Baker’s insurance and monetary and in-kind donations covered all but $8,000 of her costs. She sold the home to an arms-length buyer after the repairs were completed. Baker’s suit against the City alleges only takings claims under the Fifth Amendment and under article I, § 17 of the Texas Constitution. Prior to trial, the district court denied the City’s dismissal motion and granted Baker partial summary judgment as to takings liability: The City asks this Court to adopt what would constitute a per se rule—that destruction to private property resulting from the exercise of valid police power cannot constitute a Fifth Amendment Taking. Neither the Supreme Court nor the Fifth Circuit have directly found a taking that requires just compensation when destruction of property results from the exercise of valid police power. The City correctly points out that other circuits have foreclosed recovery under similar circumstances. See Manitowoc Cty., 635 F.3d 331; Lech, 791 F. App’x. 711; AmeriSource Corp., 525 F.3d 1149. However, both the Fifth Circuit and the Supreme Court have suggested such action could amount to a taking . . . The Court finds the Fifth Circuit and Supreme Court reasoning persuasive, particularly at this stage of litigation where it construes allegations in the light most favorable to Baker. Baker v. City of McKinney, 4:21-CV-0176-ALM (E.D. Tex. June 22, 2022), 2022 WL 2298974. During trial, the court allowed an un-pled § 1983 Monell claim to go the jury in addition to the takings claims and granted a motion in limine to prohibit evidence of Baker’s financial sources of repairs as violative of the “collateral source rule,” thus allowing her to recover more than just compensation. Filing Date: November, 2022 (NY Appellate Court) Columbus Monument Corp. v. City of Syracuse Pro Bono Author: Erich Eiselt In 1934, a group of Italian-Americans bestowed a Christopher Columbus statue on Syracuse, which accepted it and placed it in St. Mary’s Circle—a prominent City property. In 1990, New York State agreed to contribute funds to restore the statue, conditional on the City raising private funds and granting the State a Protective Covenant to apply the funds towards maintenance of the statue for 23 years or the useful life of the improvements, “whichever is longer.” An Italian-American organization contributed funds based on the City’s commitment to use the money to maintain the statue, augmenting contributions by the City and the State. As time passed, objections to the Columbus statue by the Onondaga Tribe and other groups have increased. The City now wants to reconfigure the elements in St. Mary’s Circle to represent a more diverse City population and heritage, including moving the statue to a different location. To that end, in 2021, the Mayor obtained the State’s signature on a “Termination of Protective Covenant,” which the City claims abrogated its continuing responsibility to maintain the statue and further freed the City to exert its authority over the statue. The Columbus Monument Corporation, other contributors of maintenance funds, and descendants of the original grantors of the statue, objected. They focused on specifics in the Termination agreement. The plaintiffs were successful in getting the judge to focus on that issue. He declared the Termination null and void and ordered that the statue cannot be moved by the City. IMLA’ interest in this case was to emphasize that the City has the authority, under the government speech doctrine as articulated in Summum and its progeny, to populate St. Mary’s circle with such monuments as it deems appropriate. In Summum, the Supreme Court defined the primacy of government speech in the context of monuments: This case presents the question whether the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment entitles a private group to insist that a municipality permit it to place a permanent monument in a city park in which other donated monuments were previously erected. The Court of Appeals held that the municipality was required to accept the monument because a public park is a traditional public forum. We conclude, however, that although a park is a traditional public forum for speeches and other transitory expressive acts, the display of a permanent monument in a public park is not a form of expression to which forum analysis applies. Instead, the placement of a permanent monument in a public park is best viewed as a form of government speech and is therefore not subject to scrutiny under the Free Speech Clause. Filing Date: November 25, 2022 (Fifth Circuit) Association of Club Executives of Dallas, Inc. v. City of Dallas Pro Bono Author: Joshua Skinner The Dallas City Council (Council) unanimously adopted Ordinance No. 32125 (Ordinance) prohibiting sexually oriented businesses (SOBs) from operating between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. in Dallas (City). The Ordinance cites the Council’s findings that operation of SOBs during those hours is “detrimental to public health, safety, and general welfare,” and includes data purporting to show that during those hours there is an increase in violent crime and drug and gun arrests at or near SOBs and an increased number of calls from SOBs for City EMT assistance. In support, the Council cites various studies associating SOBs with higher crime and a report from the cities of Beaumont and Amarillo showing that SOBs promote certain criminal activity and have a deleterious effect on adjacent areas. The Ordinance also references the Dallas Police Department (DPD) task force (Task Force) created in March 2021 at the Council’s request following shootings and other violent crimes that occurred at or near SOBs. The Council had received a DPD presentation on January 5, 2022, delivering the Task Force’s conclusions and its recommendation that SOB hours of operation be reduced to decrease criminal activity, improve safety, and reduce demand on City resources. DPD had subsequently submitted to Council a “detailed analysis” listing licensed SOBs in the City and graphs displaying data related to all offenses, arrests, and calls for service at SOBs. The day the Ordinance was adopted, four adult cabaret businesses and one adult bookstore that qualify as SOBs under the City Code, and a non-for-profit trade association whose members are SOBs and include adult bookstores, arcades, and cabarets located in the City (Plaintiffs) moved for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction, asserting that the Ordinance violates their First Amendment right to freedom of expression. Plaintiffs allege that the Ordinance is an unconstitutional content-based restriction of protected expression, does not withstand strict or intermediary scrutiny, and that the data and information relied on by the City in passing the Ordinance is invalid, flawed, and shoddy. The Northern District of Texas denied the City’s motion to dismiss and granted Plaintiffs injunctive relief. The court’s primary focus was on Plaintiffs’ likelihood of success on the merits. It found in their favor, despite the City’s argument that under the longstanding tests applicable to sexually explicit expression derived in Renton, the Ordinance was a content neutral, secondary-effects based measure, applying appropriate time, manner, and place restrictions. The district court did not find it necessary to evaluate which level of scrutiny applied: “Here, the Court concludes that it need not determine as a final matter which level of scrutiny applies, because regardless of the standard under which the Ordinance is evaluated, it does not pass muster, and therefore must be enjoined.” Despite this conclusion, the court proceeded to analyze whether strict or intermediate scrutiny would apply. In terms of strict scrutiny, it acknowledged the City’s argument contra: “Here, the City acknowledges that the Ordinance restricting SOBs is content based, but argues that under Renton, regulations addressing SOBs fall into an exception to the normal content-based approach, and are not subject to strict scrutiny.” In contrast, “Plaintiffs contend that the secondary effects doctrine no longer applies, citing the Supreme Court’s decision in Reed and the Fifth Circuit’s subsequent abrogation of at least some secondary effects doctrine cases.” The Fifth Circuit’s “subsequent abrogation” occurred in City of Austin v. Reagan Outdoor Advertising of Austin, where the Circuit’s application of Reed to prohibit on-premise versus off-premise sign distinctions would be reversed by the Supreme Court. The district court queried the continuing viability of the secondary effects doctrine given the Fifth Circuit’s discussion of the issue in Reagan: In footnote 3 of Reagan, the Fifth Circuit specifically identified a number of cases it was abrogating based on Reed, including four cases that had upheld ordinances relating to SOBs under the secondary effects doctrine. Id. at 703 n.3 … By abrogating these SOB cases in footnote 3 of its opinion in Reagan, the Fifth Circuit implicitly applied Reed’s holding that a content-based law is subject to strict scrutiny regardless of the government’s content-neutral justification, so as to abrogate the secondary effects doctrine in the SOB context. In doing so, however, the Fifth Circuit in Reagan did not name the secondary effects doctrine, nor expressly discuss the impact of Reed on Renton or the Supreme Court’s more recent secondary effects case, Alameda Books. The Supreme Court reversal of Reagan did not touch on the subliminal secondary effects issues raised by the Fifth Circuit. And the district court in this case, having raised the question, merely stated that it need not decide the intermediate versus strict scrutiny question, again stating that irrespective of the standard, the Ordinance failed: “Fortunately, the Court concludes that it need not resolve the question of the continued viability of the secondary effects doctrine in the Fifth Circuit because, as discussed below, the Ordinance does not survive regardless of the scrutiny applied.” The court concluded that even the less demanding standards of intermediate scrutiny had not been met by the City’s data—there was only a minor increase in crime in the 2 a.m. to 6 a.m. period. The court found that, in the three-year period from 2019 to 2021, when considering both violent and property crime occurring at SOBs, there was less overall crime reported during the relevant time period of 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., compared to 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. And while the data showed more reports of violent crime from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., compared to 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the same 2019 to 2021 period, there were only 21 total arrests for violent crimes at SOBs from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., compared to 18 arrests during the 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. window. Some of the data, said the court, related to locations where the SOB had ceased functioning or had never actually operated; some statistics related to crime within 500 feet of the SOB, including motels and other establishments. And the inclusion of bookstores, which had far less criminal activity than the other establishments, made the Ordinance overbroad and not in keeping with the Renton standards, in which the regulation had distinguished among various types of SOBs based on their specific secondary effects. Therefore, the court concluded that “the City’s evidence does not fairly support its stated rationale for the Ordinance. Because the City could not reasonably believe that the evidence shows the requisite connection between the protected speech and harmful secondary effects, the Ordinance is not narrowly tailored.” There is confusion after Reed as to whether SOB ordinances are content-based regulations of speech or content-neutral regulations of conduct. The effect of eliminating secondary-effects analysis and applying strict scrutiny to SOB ordinances would likely be to render most of their provisions unconstitutional, overturning decades of case law and severely undermining the ability of state and local governments to address the adverse secondary effects caused by such uses. Furthermore, the district court’s second guessing of the City’s evidence to support its rationale continues a trend of making intermediate scrutiny more difficult for governments to surpass in the context of First Amendment challenges and seems to contradict the Supreme Court’s decision in Lorillard Tobacco Company v. Reilly, 522 U.S. 525 (2001). While we do not expect complete deference by courts to legislative fact-finding, under Lorillard, a local government may justify a restriction based on “reference to studies and anecdotes pertaining to different locales altogether, or even, in a case applying strict scrutiny, to justify restrictions based solely on history, consensus, and ‘simple common sense.’” Filing Date: November 24, 2022 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing En Banc) City of Grants Pass v. Johnson Pro Bono Author: Harry Wilson, Anit Jindal & Hannah Hoffman This case involves an extension of the Ninth Circuit’s already disastrous decision in Martin v. Boise, from several years ago involving anti-camping ordinances seeking to address the problem of homelessness. Grants Pass is a small city in Oregon with a population of about 38,000, of whom at least fifty are homeless (though the number may be as many as 600). Regardless, the number of homeless persons outnumber the available shelter beds. The City passed several ordinances related to the regulation of sleeping outside, which taken together made it nearly impossible to sleep outside with any form of bedding or shelter on public land in the City. See GPMC 5.61.020; GPMC 5.61.030; GPMC 6.46.090. A violation of these ordinances resulted in fines, which would escalate if left unpaid. The “park exclusion” ordinance allowed police officers to bar someone from a city park for 30 days if they received 2 more citations for violating park ordinances within one year. GPMC 6.46.350(A). If someone had received a park exclusion ordinance and was later found in a park, that could result in criminal trespass. The City amended its camping ordinance after Martin (discussed below) to make it clear that the involuntary act of sleeping without shelter in a park was not prohibited, rather what was prohibited was “camping” – i.e., sleeping with any bedding / shelter. The City had four temporary shelters, but two were explicitly religious and required residents to attend Christian worship services. Another was a “sobering center,” which was just a place for intoxicated people to sober up and did not have beds. The fourth was a youth shelter. It was undisputed that the City did not have enough beds for its homeless population and really did not have any shelter for adults that did not wish to stay somewhere that was overtly religious. In September 2018, a three-judge panel issued Martin v. City of Boise, 902 F.3d 1031 (9th Cir. 2018), holding “the Eighth Amendment prohibits the imposition of criminal penalties for sitting, sleeping, or lying outside on public property for homeless individuals who cannot obtain shelter.” Id. at 1048. Although the decision was both novel and sweeping, the opinion did offer a modicum of comfort to local governments that they could still regulate camping on public property by way of a footnote where it stated: Naturally, our holding does not cover individuals who do have access to adequate temporary shelter, whether because they have the means to pay for it or because it is realistically available to them for free, but who choose not to use it. Nor do we suggest that a jurisdiction with insufficient shelter can never criminalize the act of sleeping outside. Even where shelter is unavailable, an ordinance prohibiting sitting, lying, or sleeping outside at particular times or in particular locations might well be constitutionally permissible… So, too, might an ordinance barring the obstruction of public rights of way or the erection of certain structures. Whether some other ordinance is consistent with the Eighth Amendment will depend, as here, on whether it punishes a person for lacking the means to live out the “universal and unavoidable consequences of being human” in the way the ordinance prescribes. Shortly after the Martin decision was issued, three homeless individuals in Grants Pass filed a class action lawsuit on behalf of those that are “involuntarily homeless” against the City, arguing its ordinances are unconstitutional under the Eighth Amendment’s Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause and Excessive Fines Clause (among other arguments). The Ninth Circuit held that the district court did not abuse its discretion by certifying a class action in the case despite Martin appearing to require an individualized inquiry into whether the person was involuntarily homeless. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that the class was defined as only those that were “involuntarily homeless” and therefore, no individualized inquiry was necessary as the City did not claim to have adequate shelter for all 600 homeless individuals in Grants Pass. The Ninth Circuit also concluded that the City’s ordinances violated the Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause and a “local government cannot avoid this ruling by issuing civil citations that, later, become criminal offenses.” The court did not address ordinances that solely provided civil infractions. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court’s holding that “the anti-camping ordinances violated the Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause to the extent they prohibited homeless persons from ‘taking necessary minimal measures to keep themselves warm and dry while sleeping when there are no alternative forms of shelter available.’” The dissent points out that the class certification was inappropriate under Martin’s requirement for an individualized inquiry into whether adequate shelter was available to the homeless person. Per the dissent: the mere fact that a city’s shelters are full does not by itself establish, without more, that any particular person who is sleeping in public does “not have a single place where [he or she] can lawfully be.” Id. The logic of Martin, and of the opinions in Powell on which it is based, requires an assessment of a person’s individual situation before it can be said that the Eighth Amendment would be violated by applying a particular provision against that person… Under Martin, the answer to the question whether the City’s enforcement of each of the anti-camping ordinances violates the Eighth Amendment turns on the individual circumstances of each person to whom the ordinance is being applied on a given occasion. That question is simply not one that can be resolved, on a common basis, “in one stroke.” Filing Date: October 24, 2022 (Supreme Court of Nevada) 180 Land Co., LLC v. City of Las Vegas Pro Bono Author: Steve Silva This case involves a $35,000,000 judgment in an inverse condemnation case against the City of Las Vegas, which threatens to upend local governments’ regulatory land use authority in the State. In 1990 the City approved a 1,539 acre planned development known as the Peccole Ranch Master Plan (PRMP) on the condition that the developer set aside more than 200 acres for open space. The developer chose to use the open space for a 211-acre golf course that later expanded to 250 acres. In 1992, the City approved a new General Plan that designated the residential portion of the remaining portion of the PRMP as R-PD7 (residential planned development) and the open space as PR-OS. PR-OS does not permit housing. The City repeatedly confirmed the PR-OS designation in subsequent ordinances approving updates to the General Plan, most recently in 2018. The City Council would be required to exercise its discretion to change the PR-OS designation to permit construction of housing. In 2015, the original developer of the PRMP sold the golf course to a new developer (the “Developer”) for $4.5 million. The Developer shut down the golf course and segmented the 250 acres into 4 development sites. In 2017, the City approved the Developer’s application to build 435 luxury housing units on a 17-Acre portion of the original golf course. However, the City denied the Developer’s application to develop 61 units on the 35-Acre portion of the golf course. The City never ruled on the Developer’s applications for the other two parcels because the application was incomplete. The Developer sued in 4 separate lawsuits, one for each parcel, demanding $386 million in damages and claiming an absolute right to build residential units on the property because the zoning ordinance permits residential use. The Developer argues that the zoning ordinance which permits residential use trumps the City’s General Plan, which had designated the property at issue as open space. NRS 278.250 provides that “zoning regulations must be adopted in accordance with the master plan for land use…” At issue in this case is the 35-Acre parcel. In this case, the Nevada district court concluded that the City was liable for a regulatory taking, agreeing with the Developer’s arguments that because housing is a permitted use under the zoning ordinance, the City violated the Takings Clause by denying the use, notwithstanding the General Plan to the contrary. The district court concluded that zoning “trumps” a General Plan. The court concluded there was no market to sell the property and that due to the government’s actions, the value of the property was zero. Filing Date: October 5, 2022 (Ninth Circuit) Kirola v. City & County of San Francisco Pro Bono Author: Erin Bernstein Kirola, a mobility-impaired individual, brought a class action lawsuit against San Francisco, alleging the City discriminates against mobility-impaired persons by failing to eliminate access barriers or ensure accessibility to the City’s libraries, swimming pools, and parks, and to public rights-of-way such as sidewalks, curb ramps, and crosswalks in violation of the ADA and related state civil rights statues. The district court certified the class and the case proceeded to a bench trial. At trial, the City presented detailed evidence of its comprehensive efforts to ensure that disabled persons have meaningful access to its services and programs consistent with the ADA and state law through both proactive and reactive measures – i.e., undertaking significant accessibility planning across numerous City departments and proactively seeking input from the disability community in the course of such planning, while also responding to requests and complaints from the public through a grievance procedure. In contrast, Kirola testified only to a very limited number of access barriers she encountered within the City including: a limited number of cracked sidewalks or missing curb ramps (that did not necessarily require her to alter her route); encountering step stools in aisles at the public library allegedly impeding her access to the facility; a steep slope at the entrance to a city park, making it difficult for her to enter that particular park; and that some of the city’s pools did not have accessibility features, though she did testify that she regularly swam at multiple city pools, including the one closest to her house. The case went up to the Ninth Circuit which affirmed the district court’s rejection of the plaintiff’s program access claims which apply to existing facilities. However, it remanded the case back to the district court on the narrower issue to reevaluate the extent of noncompliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG), which provides that the alteration of facilities commenced after January 26, 1992 should to the maximum extent feasible be altered in a manner that makes the facility accessible/usable to individuals with disabilities. The Ninth Circuit also remanded to the district court to determine if injunctive relief should be granted to the class of plaintiffs. After the City’s motion for judgment as a matter of law, the district court found in favor of the City. The district court did find a few scattered violations of the ADAAG (an inaccessible route to a playground, a missing grab bar in a restroom at Golden Gate Park, and a couple of non-compliant features in certain restrooms in libraries). However, the court concluded that the plaintiff never personally encountered any of these violations and therefore could not show she was injured for the purposes of seeking class-wide injunctive relief. Even if she had, the court concluded that she did not demonstrate the “violations are widespread or ‘are attributable to policies or practices pervading the whole system.’” Instead, the court concluded the “City has implemented a robust, multi-faceted infrastructure to access the needs of its disabled, including the mobility-impaired population.” The court emphasized the violations it found should be “considered in context” given that there are “hundreds, if not thousands, or measurements specified in the ADAAG that govern restrooms and buildings” and just because the court had found a few ADAAG violations at three facilities does not support a finding that the violations are pervasive or systemic. The plaintiff, now appellant, is asking the court to hold that a municipality can violate Title II of the ADA for every minor accessibility issue even where the city, like San Francisco, has gone to extraordinary lengths to provide accessible services to its disabled community members. If San Francisco violated Title II of the ADA it would seem almost no municipality could escape liability because there are always going to be sidewalks that need repairing or funding issues that prevent every single community building from immediately being brought strictly up to standards set forth in the ADAAG. Filing Date: September 30, 2022 (Supreme Court of Pennsylvania) Crawford v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Pro Bono Author: Jared Make & Robert Toland II The Pennsylvania Firearms Act, 18 Pa.C.S. §6120(a), states “No county, municipality or township may in any manner regulate the lawful ownership, possession, transfer or transportation of firearms, ammunition or ammunition components when carried or transported for purposes not prohibited by the laws of this Commonwealth.” Citizens of Philadelphia and the City sued the state, challenging the validity of the Firearms Act. Philadelphia argues that the Firearms Act restricts its ability to protect the health and safety of its citizens as it has been interpreted to preempt enforcement of nearly all the City’s firearm-related ordinances. The City alleges that but for the preemptive reach of the Firearms Act, it would pass safety ordinances that would mitigate gun violence for its residents such as ordinances that would permit extreme risk protection orders, limit purchases of firearms to once per month, and impose permit requirements on potential purchasers with stricter background check requirements. The City argues, among other things, that the Commonwealth has delegated a portion of its obligation to preserve the safety and welfare of all citizens to the City and the Firearms Act prevents Philadelphia from fulfilling its obligation to do so. In a 2-1-2 decision, a five-judge panel of the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania dismissed the case. In a plurality opinion, the Court claimed that dismissing the case was required under precedent from previous cases that did not find Pennsylvania Firearm Preemption Laws to be unconstitutional. A concurring opinion noted that the Court felt constrained to follow Pennsylvania Supreme Court precedent (Ortiz v. Commonwealth, 681 A.2d 152 (Pa. 1996)) finding Pennsylvania’s Firearm Preemption Laws to be constitutional, but recognized that “local conditions may well justify more severe restrictions than are necessary statewide.” The opinion also stated that the petitioners raised constitutional arguments that may allow the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to reconsider precedent on firearm preemption. Two judges joined a dissenting opinion. “Pennsylvania’s municipalities have an important duty to protect the health, welfare, and safety of their citizens,” the opinion reads. “In my view, protecting citizens against the threat of gun violence lies at the heart of this duty.” Filing Date: August 22, 2022 (Eleventh Circuit) City of South Miami v. DeSantis Pro Bono Author: Raphael Rajendra & Susan Greenberg In City of South Miami v. DeSantis, the City of South Miami and several immigrants’ rights organizations challenged Florida’s SB 168 (2019). Among other things, SB 168 affirmatively requires local governments to use “best efforts to support the enforcement of federal immigration law” and it prohibits local governments from adopting sanctuary policies of any kind. The law also affirmatively requires local governments to comply with immigration detainer requests and prohibits them from adopting policies prohibiting sharing information with ICE about the impending release of detainees, or participating in 287(g) agreements (under which DHS deputizes local law enforcement officers to directly enforce immigration laws). After a six-day bench trial, the district court agreed with the plaintiffs that the Florida Legislature enacted these portions of SB 168 with discriminatory motive, that they had foreseeable disproportionate impacts on racial and ethnic minorities, and that the provisions therefore violate the Equal Protection Clause. See 561 F.Supp.3d 1211 (S.D. Fla. 2021). The case is now on appeal to the Eleventh Circuit. A coalition of local governments plans to file an amicus brief emphasizing two points: (1) the importance of reserving to local governments the authority to determine whether to adopt sanctuary jurisdiction policies and practices, and (2) the reasons why local jurisdictions enact sanctuary jurisdiction policies. This point will focus on the fact that local governments know more intimately than state or federal officials the benefits of sanctuary policies (if they choose to adopt them) as they are in the best position to know their law enforcement efforts; resources and capacity; and their ability to protect the health and welfare of all residents, including immigrant communities. IMLA filed amicus briefs in the Byrne Jag litigation involving the federal government’s withholding of grant money from local governments over so-called sanctuary policies. IMLA’s position in these cases has been that local governments, not the federal government or states, are in the best position to know whether they should participate in immigration enforcement depending on local conditions. In this case, Florida is preempting local governments’ ability to have this autonomy and has created an unfunded mandate for local governments to assist federal immigration enforcement. This issue is not illusory. Miami-Dade County alone spent $12.5 million in 2017 honoring immigration detainers. Local governments have also been sued for violating the Fourth Amendment when they honor ICE detainers but do not still have probable cause to detain someone criminally. States should not put local governments in the position of having to choose between potentially violating someone’s Fourth Amendment rights and violating state law. Filing Date: July 28, 2022 (Eleventh Circuit) Myrick v. City of Hoover Pro Bono Author: Robbie Alexander Hyde The plaintiffs in this case are 4 police officers who work for the City of Hoover, Alabama. They also serve in the United States armed forces as reserve officers. Throughout their employment with the City, they have been called to military duty and taken military leave from their jobs. Under the City’s policies, they are afforded 168 hours of military leave and remain in active status for those hours, including for the purposes of accruing benefits. If their leave is longer than 168 hours, they request a leave of absence and go into unpaid status but remain eligible for their jobs when they return. They do not accrue employee benefits while they are in unpaid status. The plaintiffs allege that their employment benefits should have accrued while they were on leave and under non-pay status because military leave should be treated as comparable to administrative leave for the purposes of USERRA. If, as they allege, administrative leave were applicable they would be entitled to earn annual leave, sick leave and holiday leave all of which have monetary value associated with the type of leave. The city asserts that the terms of its administrative leave policy differentiates it significantly and substantially to be used as a comparable leave for USERRA purposes. USERRA provides that a person who is a member of a uniformed service “shall not be denied . . . any benefit of employment by an employer on the basis of that membership . . . performance of service . . . or obligation.” 38 U.S.C. § 4311(a). While away from their civilian jobs, servicemembers are “entitled to such other rights and benefits not determined by seniority as are generally provided by the employer of the person to employees having similar seniority, status, and pay who are on furlough or leave of absence under a contract, agreement, policy, practice, or plan in effect at the commencement of such service or established while such person performs such service.” 38 U.S.C. § 4316(b)(1)(B); see 20 C.F.R. § 1002.150(a). The officers argue that administrative leave and military leave are comparable. Courts look to 3 factors to determine if leave is comparable for the purposes of benefits under USERRA: duration, control, and the purpose of the leave, with duration being the “most significant factor to consider.” Under the City’s policies, an employee is eligible for paid administrative leave for inclement weather, jury duty, voting, court hearings, and participation in job-related training. These types of leave are typically for shorter duration and on average, short periods of military leave for training last longer than short periods of administrative leave by a 3:1 margin. Paid administrative leave also is available under the City’s policy when the City removes an employee from service during an internal investigation. This type of leave was rare, but in the last 30 years, the City placed 3 employees on administrative leave pending an internal investigation. Like other local governments, this form of leave is designed to protect against claims of due process violation as a local government investigates claims against employees. The average length of paid administrative leave for an investigation is 16 months and the court found the average deployed military leave is generally comparable. (Though one of the officers was deployed for nearly 5 years during different tours). The court found that the duration factor favored the city. However, the court found that the purpose and control factors both favored the employees and ultimately found in favor of the employees that the administrative leave was comparable to the military leave. The City argued that due process considerations compelled it to provide paid administrative leave to employees under investigation, and the court found that purpose was similar to military leave as both enable the employer to meet its obligations under law. Finally, the court rejected the City’s arguments that the control factor favored the City because its policies require those on administrative leave to be available to work and report to the Mayor whereas officers on military leave are unavailable to work / report to the Mayor. The court concluded that officers voluntarily participate in the military reserves and similarly, officers “voluntarily place themselves in a position in which they will have to take administrative leave if their wrongdoing is discovered.” (Of course such a finding ignores the fact that some employees who are investigated for misconduct are innocent). The court found that on balance, even though duration of the leave is the most important factor and favored the City, the duration wasn’t so dissimilar to tip the scales in favor of the City. Many local governments have policies whereby they place employees on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation. If such administrative leaves are deemed comparable for the purposes of USERRA, local governments will be responsible for significant payments to employees on military leave. Filing Date: April 11, 2022 (Sixth Circuit) Knight v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville & Davidson County No. 21-6179 Pro Bono Author: Richard Coglianese Nashville passed a “Sidewalk Ordinance” which applies to the construction of all new single-family and two-family homes and to the substantial renovation/expansion of such homes within a certain district. Under the ordinance, any owner pursing construction outlined in the ordinance would need to agree to construct a city sidewalk on the owner’s property frontage in order to receive a building permit unless they receive a waiver or unless under “unique situations” they make an “in-lieu contribution” to the City’s pedestrian benefit fund. The “in-lieu-fee” is based on $186 per linear foot and capped at no more than 3% of the total construction value of the permit. The ordinance also requires the dedication of a public easement for the sidewalk (regardless of whether it is built or not). When the plaintiffs sought to build a new single-family home, as a condition of doing so, Nashville required them to either construct a sidewalk or pay an in-lieu fee (ranging between $7,600 and $9,000) to get their building permit. The Zoning Administrator and Board of Zoning Appeals denied the plaintiff’s request for a waiver. The plaintiff refused to grant the easement for the sidewalk to the City and the building permit expired and they were unable to build the new homes. The plaintiffs sued, claiming the ordinance violated the Takings Clause. They argued that the ordinance amounted to an unconstitutional condition under Nollan while the City argued the court should analyze the ordinance under Penn Central as a regulatory taking. The district court framed the question as follows: “whether a legislative, generally applicable development condition that applies to all new development within a certain geographic zone, as opposed to an adjudicative land-use exaction, should be addressed under the Nollan/Dolan framework.” The district court concluded that the Nollan/Dolan test did not apply to legislative land use ordinances and instead analyzed the issue under Penn Central as a regulatory taking. The court reasoned that the discretionary / ad hoc nature of the individualized decisions in Nollan and Dolan were key distinguishing factors from the generally applicable legislation in question. Under Penn Central, the court concluded that no regulatory taking had occurred, and the plaintiffs were not entitled to damages. The district court notes that this will be a case of first impression in the Sixth Circuit as to whether the Nollan/Dolan framework applies to generally applicable legislation. Filed March 16, 2022 (Supreme Court of Pennsylvania – Petition for Allocatur) City of Philadelphia v. Armstrong No. 81 EAL 2022 Pro Bono Author: Marissa Roy Philadelphia Code §10-838a imposes a fine on individuals who fail to report a lost or stolen firearm within 24 hours after the theft/loss is discovered. The City filed a complaint alleging Rashad Armstrong failed to report a firearm missing or stolen, in violation of the ordinance. Armstrong admitted in his criminal sentencing to being a straw purchaser of guns on six different occasions (which is why he did not report the guns lost/stolen) and pled guilty to various firearm violations under state and federal law. With regard to the City’s ordinance in this case, however, Armstrong argues the ordinance is preempted by 18 Pa.C.S. §6120(a), which states “No county, municipality or township may in any manner regulate the lawful ownership, possession, transfer or transportation of firearms, ammunition or ammunition components when carried or transported for purposes not prohibited by the laws of this Commonwealth.” Philadelphia argues that Section 6120(a) only preempts “municipal laws that regulate the lawful ownership, possession, transfer, or transportation of firearms, but does not preempt municipal laws that regulate the unlawful ownership, possession, transfer, or transportation of firearms.” The City also argues that State law does not preempt the ordinance because it does not directly concern the ownership, possession, transfer, or transportation of firearms. The City also argues that the balance of harms tips in its favor given the public health and safety implications of the increase in gun violence in the City. By way of background, in Ortiz v. Commonwealth, 681 A.2d 152 (Pa. 1996), the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania concluded the assault weapon bans by Philadelphia and Pittsburgh were preempted by Section 6120(a). The intermediate appellate court in this case interpreted Ortiz to mean that “the regulation of firearms is an area where legislative activity is vested singularly and absolutely in the General Assembly of the Commonwealth.” The court then concluded that the Ordinance at issue in this case was therefore preempted by Section 6120(a). One of the judges on the panel concurred in the decision, indicating that the court is bound by Ortiz but she believes the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania should reconsider the case to allow for local restrictions which are narrowly tailored to local necessities. Members may disagree on the issue of gun restrictions, and we do not take a position on the policy questions involved in this case. But we should all agree that local governments are in the best position to know what the local conditions and issues are that must be regulated. Protecting local governments from sweeping preemption legislation is central to IMLA’s advocacy. Philadelphia is a home rule charter city and as such, it has broad authority to regulate its own affairs. IMLA’s amicus brief in this case focused on supporting efforts to strengthen home rule and prevent sweeping preemption of local authority. Filed March 14, 2022 (Fifth Circuit) Davis v. Gavin No. 21-30694 Pro Bono Author: Robin Cross Here, the Parish of Caddo, Louisiana (Parish) created Caddo Parish Sewerage District No. 2 (District) which, under Louisiana law, constituted a political subdivision of the state and had all the rights of those subdivisions, including the authority to incur debt, issue bonds, and to levy taxes and assessments. Rebecca Davis, an employee of the District, brought a claim against her supervisor, James Gavin, for sexual harassment, discrimination, retaliation and other counts under Title VII, naming both the District and the Parish as “employer.” One argument she advanced was the “single integrated enterprise” test, which has been applied in a wide variety of contexts including Title VII, ADA, FMLA and others, to aggregate the number of employees and/or revenues from two or more related entities to meet minimum applicability thresholds for those statutes. She also argued that the District was acting as the agent of the Parish. Under Title VII, for an employer to be considered a “single, integrated enterprise” with another employer, the plaintiff must show: 1) interrelation of operations, 2) centralized control of labor relations, 3) common management, and 4) common ownership or financial control. However, in the Fifth Circuit, this test is not applicable to governmental subdivisions and only applies to separate private corporations. In this case, the Western District of Louisiana granted the Parish’s motion for summary judgment, finding that (1) on the basis of two Louisiana precedents and the plain language of the relevant Louisiana statute, the Parish and the Districts are separate legal entities; (2) the single integrated enterprise test is not applicable to governmental entities under the Fifth Circuit’s longstanding decision in Trevino v. Celanese Corp., 701 F.2d 397 (5th Cir. 1983); and (3) the Parish did not exert any influence over the District’s employment practices, meaning no agency relationship existed for purposes of Title VII as interpreted in the Fifth Circuit. Davis is appealing to the Fifth Circuit and while we do not yet know what her arguments will be, she will likely raise several points argued below, including an Eighth Circuit decision, Owens v. Rush, 636 F.2d 283 (8th Cir. 1980), which found a Sheriff to be an agent of the county. More significant may be the plaintiff’s argument that, due to inclusion of the District as a “component unit” within the Parish Commission’s financial statements, an agency—or other relationship sufficient to constitute joint employer status—has been created. Filed February 9, 2022 (Second Circuit Petition for Rehearing En Banc) Grant v. Lockett No. 19-469 Pro Bono Author: Amanda Karras, Erich Eiselt, & Deanna Shahnami Police were called to the Grant home on a domestic disturbance call. When they responded, they found the husband in an agitated state and asked him to go outside. They sought to detain him for safety reasons and for violating NY Penal Code involving domestic disturbances and disorderly conduct and a fight broke out between the husband, who is much larger, and one of the officers. The police officer struck him several times with his hand. A second officer came over during the struggle and hit the husband with a knee strike and head lock. They were then able to subdue him and got him medical attention for a broken nose and concussion. The husband and wife both sued the police officers and the city, claiming that when the officers arrived the situation was entirely under control and that they told the officers they no longer needed their services, but the officers nevertheless entered their home without permission and proceeded to arrest the husband without probable cause given that the domestic situation was, according to the plaintiffs, entirely under control by the time they arrived. They claim the use of force was entirely unprovoked whereas the officers claim Mr. Grant initiated the physical altercation. The plaintiffs brought claims under Section 1983 for false imprisonment and excessive force as well as claims against the City under Monell. On the Monell claim, the plaintiffs allege that the City’s deliberate indifference to civil complaints of police brutality has resulted in the customary use of excessive force by its police officers, and, as a proximate result of such policy, they suffered injuries. The plaintiffs introduced evidence at trial from a Citizen Review Board (CRB), which contained information about hundreds of complaints against officers over a multi-year period and the recommendations by the CRB as to discipline, as well as the police department’s actual action taken against each officer. The plaintiffs argued that the CRB report demonstrated a pattern of excessive force that went undisciplined which created a climate whereby officers felt empowered to act with impunity. The district court also allowed the plaintiffs to introduce evidence from the CRB about this incident, which included the CRB’s findings that these officers had committed excessive force, did not have probable cause to arrest, and were untruthful. The officers did not testify at the CRB proceedings, which is the usual course for these proceedings given that the CRB does not put those that testify under oath, does not allow cross-examination, does not create a transcript of the proceedings, and they are not appealable. The CRB uses a “scintilla of the evidence” standard. Additionally, the district court allowed into evidence a letter from the District Attorney indicating that there was no lawful basis for the arrest. The City sought to exclude this evidence and also sought to bifurcate the Monell claim from the claims against the officers given the prejudicial CRB evidence involved in the Monell claim, but the district court denied these motions. The district court also refused to decide the legal issues of qualified immunity or send special interrogatories to the jury on qualified immunity and instead ultimately allowed the jury to decide the issue of qualified immunity. A jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs for nearly 2 million dollars not including attorney’s fees. IMLA filed an amicus brief at the Second Circuit, arguing the failure to bifurcate the Monell claims from the claims against the individual officers was an abuse of discretion given the highly prejudicial CRB evidence introduced at trial in the Monell case. The Second Circuit found in favor of the appellee / plaintiff and against the officers. The court concluded that the district court made the following errors: 1) allowing the CRB findings that these officers had been untruthful, had committed excessive force, and did not have probable cause to arrest into evidence; 2) allowing into evidence the DA letter and testimony finding that the arrest was unlawful; 3) allowing the jury to consider the ultimate legal issue of qualified immunity. However, the Second Circuit considered these errors to all be harmless. The Second Circuit did not find the district court abused its discretion in failing to bifurcate the Monell claim from the claim against the officers. IMLA again filed an amicus brief in support of the City and officers but the Second Circuit denied the officers’ petition for rehearing. Filed February 4, 2022 (Ninth Circuit) Yim v. Seattle No. 21-35567 Pro Bono Author: Victoria Wong Seattle enacted the Fair Chance Housing Ordinance, which prohibits landlords from asking anyone about prospective or current tenants’ criminal or arrest history and from taking adverse action against them based on that information. Seattle Municipal Code § 14.09 et seq., “Adverse action” is defined as refusing to rent to the person, evicting the person, or charging higher rent. S.M.C. §14.09.010. A group of landlords challenged the ordinance. They argue the adverse action requirement violates their substantive due process rights by depriving them of the ability of their “right to rent their property to whom they choose, at a price they choose, subject to reasonable anti-discrimination measures.” The landlord group also argues that the inquiry provision violates their free speech rights. The district court granted the City’s summary judgment motion. The landlords argued that the ordinance amounts to an unconstitutional Taking under the Fourteenth Amendment because it prevents them from exercising their “fundamental right to exclude individuals” from their property, citing to the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid. The court rejected these arguments, concluding that the City’s reasons for enacting the ordinance were legitimate and that it directly advances those legitimate purposes. Moving to Free Speech, with regard to current tenants, the court concluded the landlords lacked Article III standing because they failed to show or even allege that they had ever asked a current tenant about his/her criminal history in the past or intended to do so in the future. As to future tenants, the parties argued over what standard should govern the First Amendment analysis. The court determined the ordinance was content based, but that it regulated commercial speech and therefore applied intermediate scrutiny to the analysis. The court reasoned that “covers—a landlord specifying the background check he or she wishes to purchase—is quintessential commercial speech. It boils down to the landlord asking, ‘Can I purchase a background report for this particular applicant?’” The court then concluded that the ordinance was constitutional under the intermediate scrutiny analysis. According to the court, the ordinance advanced two interests: “reducing barriers to housing faced by people with criminal records…and lessening the use of criminal history as a proxy to discriminate against people of color disproportionately represented in the criminal justice system.” The court held that the ordinance is as “reasonable means of achieving the City’s objectives and does not burden substantially more speech than is necessary to achieve them.” The court rejected the landlords’ arguments that the evidence merely demonstrated correlation, not causation, explaining that the Supreme Court in City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books has held that a government “is not required to ‘prove that its theory is the only one that can plausibly explain the data.’” Filed December 15, 2021 (Fifth Circuit) Texas v. United States No. 21-40680 Pro Bono Author: Mike Dundas In 2012, then President Obama adopted the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) to postpone deportation of undocumented immigrants if they were brought to the United States as children and met certain conditions. DACA also allowed them to obtain work permits (through a separate regulatory scheme), social security numbers, pay taxes, and become part of the mainstream economy. The Trump administration rescinded DACA in 2017 and several lawsuits challenged that rescission on APA grounds. The Supreme court ultimately held that the decision to rescind DACA was arbitrary and capricious under the APA, but did not rule on the question of the legality of DACA itself. This litigation involves a suit by the State of Texas and several other states, challenging the legality of the DACA program (rather than the process of rescission as in the past suit). The district court permanently enjoined DACA, finding it unlawful and vacating the 2012 DACA Memo. IMLA joined an amicus brief along with 55+ local governments in the DACA litigation, which is currently pending in the Fifth Circuit. IMLA’s amicus brief focused on the fact that DACA recipients have made local government communities more prosperous and safer and that rescinding DACA would negatively impact the Amici / local governments’ communities that have relied on DACA. Filed October __, 2021 (Ninth Circuit) Potter v. City of Lacey No. 21-35259 Pro Bono Author: Greg Wong The Plaintiff began living in his vehicle (which had a trailer attached to it) in 2018. At first, he moved around parking lots, but after being unable to find a consistent place to park his vehicle, he began parking it at the City Hall parking lot, along with about two dozen other people residing in their vehicles. In September 2019, the Lacey City Council passed an ordinance, which prohibits parking recreational vehicles / mobile homes / trailers, etc. on public rights of way or publicly owned parking lots for more than four hours, unless they have received a permit. LMC 10.14.020. Under the relevant parking and procedures in the City, an individual can obtain a vehicle permit from the police department to park a recreational vehicle for longer than LMC 10.14.020 provides for if the owner of the vehicle is actively engaged with social services, has a valid government ID, insurance, and vehicle registration. LMC 10.14.045. On September 27, the Lacey police told the Plaintiff he needed to move his vehicle by the 30th or he would be ticketed. He did not move his vehicle and on the 30th, the police returned and told him that he needed to move his vehicle, or it would be impounded. The following day, the police returned with a tow truck, at which point the Plaintiff did remove his vehicle because he did not want it towed. Since that time, the Plaintiff indicates he has been unable to find a place to stay consistently. The Plaintiff did not apply for a permit under LMC 10.14.045 because he says he believed it would be futile given that he had an outstanding warrant. However, the ordinance does not require the police department to deny a permit due to an outstanding warrant (though it provides discretion to do so). The Plaintiff sued, alleging the City’s parking ordinances violate various constitutional provisions. As relevant for IMLA’s purposes, the Plaintiff alleges that LMC 10.14.020 violates the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment and that the $35 fine and possibility of impoundment was an excessive fine under the Eighth Amendment. The district court held that neither the $35 fine nor the possible vehicle impoundment violates the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment, concluding the fine was not grossly disproportionate to the offense. The court reasoned that even though a parking violation is “minor,” local governments still have an interest in the regulation of parking and the $35 fine bore “some relationship to the gravity of the offense.” Additionally, because the penalties associated with the violation of the ordinance were not criminal in nature, the court reasoned the Eighth Amendment’s Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause did not apply. Filed October __, 2021 (Sixth Circuit) Novak v. City of Parma No. 21-3290 Pro Bono Author: Philip Hartmann The Plaintiff created a false Facebook page mimicking the official Parma Police page. The fake page had the same name, cover photo, and profile picture. The Plaintiff claimed it was a parody and he used it to announce things like the police were criminalizing homelessness or that they were prioritizing a search for an African American loitering suspect over an armed White robbery suspect, as well as other controversial postings that his roommate said were intended to “mess with people.” On the official page, the Captain of the Parma police notified the public that the other page was fake, but the Plaintiff posted the exact same message on his page. The Captain also appeared on a local TV show to warn the public about the fake page. The page was viewed over 50,000 times and resulted in 11 calls to the police department to alert the department to the posts and verify that they were not real. The Plaintiff took the page down after 12 hours. The next day, Detective Connor was assigned to investigate the page. Detective Connor consulted with the Law Director for the City and together, they reviewed criminal statutes and concluded that the person who posted the page may have violated Ohio Rev. Code §2909.04(B) which prohibits “knowingly using a computer…to impair the functions of any police…operations.” Detective Connor then sought a search warrant for the Plaintiff’s IP address from Facebook, which he obtained. The next day, he obtained another search warrant from a municipal judge to search Facebooks records related to the deleted page. Next, Detective Connor sought an arrest warrant for the Plaintiff, which was granted based on a violation of the disrupting public services statute. Detective Connor sought yet another warrant, now to search the Plaintiff’s apartment, and this warrant was also granted. The assistant prosecutor brought charges and a grand jury indicted the Plaintiff. Ultimately, the Plaintiff was acquitted, and he thereafter sued under Section 1983 for a First Amendment violation (among other things). The district court concluded that the officers had probable cause to arrest the Plaintiff. Accordingly, the court held they were entitled to qualified immunity because “the Supreme Court has never recognized a First Amendment right to be free from a retaliatory arrest that is supported by probable cause.” The court reasoned that even if the Facebook page was protected under the First Amendment as a parody of the police, that did not change the fact that the defendant’s had probable cause to investigate him and arrest him. The issue in this case is whether the officers are entitled to qualified immunity based on their arrest of the Plaintiff, even if the Plaintiff did engage in protected First Amendment activity, where the arrest was supported by probable cause, relied on by legal advice, and for which they sought several warrants. Filed October 28, 2021 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing) Garcia v. City of Los Angeles PFREB No. 20-55522 Pro Bono Author: Theane Evangelis Status: The petition was denied. Los Angeles passed an ordinance which limits the storage of personal property in public areas. The ordinance allows the City to remove and discard certain “Bulky Items” which are not designed to be used as shelters. “Bulky Item” is defined as an item which is too large to fit in a 60-gallon container but exempts tents, bicycles, walkers, crutches, and wheelchairs. The ordinance contains a severability provision which “declares that [the City Council] would have adopted this section, and each and every subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, not declared invalid or unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.” According to the dissent, the City has used this ordinance to dispose of everything form jacuzzis, tubs, and sofas, to boats and automobile parts that were stored on public property. A group of homeless individuals who have had their personal property destroyed pursuant to the ordinance sued, arguing the ordinance violated the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments. The Ninth Circuit concluded that Lavan v. City of Los Angeles, 693 F.3d 1022 (9th Cir. 2012), which upheld a preliminary injunction that prohibited Los Angeles from summarily destroying homeless individuals’ publicly stored personal property (regardless of size) was “strikingly similar” and that the ordinance therefore violated the Fourth Amendment under Lavan. The City argued that the destruction provision of the ordinance was severable from the removal provision. Although recognizing that California law (which applies to questions of severability) “normally calls for sustaining the valid part of the enactment” where there is the presence of a severability clause, the Ninth Circuit, over the dissent of Judge Bennett, nevertheless found the ordinance not severable and upheld the district court’s grant of a preliminary injunction prohibiting the enforcement of the ordinance. The issue in this case is whether the destruction provision of LA’s ordinance is severable from the removal provision and if so, whether the removal of Bulky Items violates the Constitution. Filed September 3, 2021 (First Circuit) State of Rhode Island v. Shell Oil Products Company, LLC, et. al No. 19-1818 Filed August 26, 2021 (Eighth Circuit) Minnesota v. American Petroleum Institute No. 21-1752 Pro Bono Author: Robert Peck Several cities, counties, and states have sued major oil companies for damages related to climate change and resulting resiliency measures that the cities and counties have had to undertake. These cases involve federalism and preemption principles, and the decisions implicate a local governments ability to bring suit under state nuisance laws broadly. IMLA has previously filed amicus briefs in support of New York, Oakland, San Francisco, San Mateo County, Baltimore, Boulder, and the state of Rhode Island in the First, Second, Fourth, Ninth, and Tenth Circuits in these cases. The only difference in these cases from the prior ones substantively is that they come after the Supreme Court issued its decision in the Baltimore case which allowed the companies to appeal a remand order on all grounds of removal, not just federal officer removal. In this case, when a remand order was issued, the companies appealed all grounds, but they appear to be relying heavily on a claim that state public nuisance laws are really a stand-in for federal common law. Thus, further implicating our federalism concerns. A full description of the issues involved in these cases can be found in this document under the case heading BP P.L.C. v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore. Filed August 26, 2021 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing) Valenzuela v. City of Anaheim No. 20-55372 Pro Bono Author: Steven Renick The underlying facts of this case are largely irrelevant for our purposes as we did not file a brief on qualified immunity. As relevant for our purposes, in July 2016, two officers ended up each applying a carotid hold to a suspect whom they sought to arrest. During the attempted arrest, he offered significant resistance, would not submit to arrest, and ran away from them at one point. After the second carotid hold, the suspect, Mr. Valenzuela, lost consciousness. The officers performed CPR and he was transported to a hospital, but he died 8 days later. It was disputed how long the holds were applied and whether they were in fact carotid holds (the plaintiffs claim they were improperly applied and amounted to choke holds). The Anaheim police department had a policy allowing for the use of carotid holds in instances of non-deadly force (within certain parameters). The California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training offered mandatory training on the carotid hold for all California police officers at the time of the events in this case and they were trained on it as a non-lethal force restraint. After the facts of this case took place, the governor, in June 2020, ordered that law enforcement cease being trained on the use of the carotid hold. Mr. Valenzuela’s estate filed suit against the officers for excessive force and wrongful death. They also sued the City based on an alleged unlawful policy and under a failure to train claim. The jury found that the officers had used excessive force against Mr. Valenzuela and found that the City was liable for having an unlawful policy, but not based on a failure to train claim. A second phase of the trial on damages followed and the jury returned a verdict awarding $3.6 million in damages for Mr. Valenzuela’s loss of life and $6 million for his pre-death pain and suffering. The jury also awarded $1.8 million each to his surviving estate members for wrongful death damages. On a motion for judgment as a matter of law, the court concluded the officers were not entitled to qualified immunity. The court also concluded that the City was liable under Monell for an unconstitutional policy because it allowed the use of carotid holds in non-deadly force situations. In terms of damages, the trial court rejected the city’s argument that loss of life damages are not cognizable under Section 1983 despite the fact that state law does not recognize loss of life damages in the state survival statute. The court concluded that foreclosing recovery for loss of life damages is inconsistent with the policies behind Section 1983 and incentivizes officers to kill rather than injure. The Ninth Circuit upheld the district court’s decision. In supporting the City in its petition for rehearing en banc, IMLA focused exclusively on 1) Whether a local government’s policy allowing the use of carotid holds in non-deadly force situations is unconstitutional under Monell despite a state training policy that sanctions it; and; 2) Whether Section 1983 when applying a state survival statute allows for loss of life damages as a policy matter where the state law does not provide for loss of life damages. Filed June 28, 2021 (Ninth Circuit) City of Sacramento v. Mann No. 2:17-cv-01201 Pro Bono Author: Lee Roistacher Sacramento police officers shot and killed Joseph Mann. Mr. Mann’s father, as his next of kin and on behalf of his estate, brought suit against the City under Section 1983 and the City settled the case with Mr. Mann’s father. Several months after the settlement, three non-cohabitating siblings brought suit under Section 1983, claiming a right under the First Amendment based on their intimate relationship with the decedent. The siblings conceded a lack of Due Process protection for their relationships. This case has a convoluted procedural history and two previous Ninth Circuit panels in this case have disagreed as to whether the First Amendment provides protection for non-cohabitating siblings. The district court sums up the conflicting decisions as follows: The court’s discussion of whether plaintiffs have adequately stated a § 1983 claim for deprivation of their First Amendment rights is complicated by the fact that the Mann II and Mann III decisions appear to be plainly contradictory. While Mann II stated that the right of intimate association should be analyzed in the same manner regardless of whether it is characterized under the First or Fourteenth Amendments, and that Ward bars intimate association claims by adult, non-cohabitating siblings, Mann III stated that Ward did not create a cohabitation requirement, and addressed only Fourteenth Amendment association claims, implying that the contours of an intimate association claim may differ depending on which amendment the claim is brought under. After these conflicting opinions and despite law of the case issues with the second panel ignoring the first panel’s decision (calling it dicta), the district court decided to follow Mann III because it was more recent and concluded that “at least in certain circumstances, the right of siblings to intimately associate falls within the First Amendment’s ambit” and that, at least for the purposes of a motion to dismiss, this was one such case. The issue in this case for IMLA’s purposes is whether a claim for intimate association may be brought under the First Amendment. Filed June 10, 2021 (Ninth Circuit) LA Alliance for Human Rights v. City of Los Angeles, et. al. No. 21-55395 Pro Bono Author: John Neiman & Caleb Wolanek Holding: The Ninth Circuit vacated the district court’s preliminary injunction. A group of business owners and residents of Los Angeles sued the City and County alleging, among other things, the City/County were liable for a state created danger, ADA violations, negligence, and violations of state nuisance laws for failing to adequately address the homelessness crisis. The district court found in favor of the plaintiffs on several grounds, including those both pled and not pled in their Complaint and granted sweeping relief beyond that which was sought by the Plaintiffs. The court, basing its decision primarily on structural racism, concluded that the City and County violated the Fourteenth Amendment based on a “special relationship” under the state created danger theory; violated the Equal Protection Clause due to “severe inaction” and based on a disproportionate number of homeless individuals being black as a result of historic and structural racism (though this was not the focus of the Plaintiffs’ equal protection arguments); and a based on the Fourteenth Amendment’s protections for family integrity. The district court judge then ordered relief beyond that sought by the Plaintiffs, including that the City to hold $1 billion in escrow to provide shelter to the homeless; provide housing for every homeless individual in Skid Row within 90 – 180 days; cease all sales and transfers of City/County properties pending a court-ordered report by the Controller on all land potentially available for homeless housing (but did not include “projects in process”); and to create a number of investigations, audits, and reports related to funds that had been utilized to address homelessness. The issue in this case is whether the district court violated the separation of powers with its sweeping order. Filed May 28, 2021 (Eighth Circuit) Tyler v. Hennepin County No. 20-3730 Pro Bono Author: John Baker & Katherine Swenson Holding: The Eighth Circuit concluded that the plaintiff did not have a property interest under state law in the surplus equity of her condominium. Under Minnesota law, property taxes become a lien against the property once they are assessed. Minn. Stat. § 272.31. If property taxes are not paid during the year in which they are due, they become delinquent the following year, at which point, a county may obtain a judgment against the property. Minn. Stat. § 279.03 subd. 1. As a matter of notice and procedure, each year, the county auditor creates a delinquent tax list, which identifies the properties on which taxes are owed, the taxpayer(s), and the amount of taxes/penalties owed. The delinquent tax list is published twice and mailed to all delinquent taxpayers. A lawsuit is commenced against delinquent taxpayers and if there is no answer, the court enters a judgment against the property. Delinquent taxpayers have several avenues to avoid forfeiture. First, while title in the property vests in the state after judgment is entered, that title is subject to the right of redemption, which is a 3-year period during which the taxpayer may redeem the property for the amount of delinquent taxes, penalties, costs, and interest. Minn. Stat. §§ 281.01–281.02, 281.17. Second, a property owner seeking to avoid forfeiture who cannot afford to redeem the property, can make a “confession of judgment,” which then allows the property owner to consolidate the debt /tax delinquency and pay in installments over five to ten years. If a property owner fails to pursue either of these avenues, absolute title vests in the state and all outstanding taxes, penalties, interest, etc. are canceled. Even after absolute title vests, the state still provides additional procedures for the property owner to repurchase his/her property. Under Minnesota’s tax foreclosure scheme, former property owners have no way to claim any proceeds from the sale of the property in excess of the tax debt. The Plaintiff in this case owned a condominium in Minneapolis and stopped paying taxes in 2010. At the time the County sought judgment under the aforementioned statutory scheme, the Plaintiff owed $15,000 in unpaid state property taxes, penalties, costs, and interest. The Plaintiff received the statutorily prescribed notice of foreclosure, failed to answer, and then never tried to redeem the property during the 3-year period. She also did not seek to repurchase the property. Thereafter, Hennepin County sold the property for $40,000, and kept the surplus and distributed it in a manner pursuant to state statute. Tyler sued, claiming the City violated the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause and the Eighth Amendment’s Excessive Fines Clause by keeping the value of her property that exceed the tax debt that she owed. As to the Taking’s inquiry, the court identified the “critical question” as whether the surplus equity belonged to the Plaintiff or the County after the absolute title of the condo passed to the County. The district court concluded that nothing in either federal or state law gives a former owner of property that has been lawfully forfeited to the state any property rights. Absent any property rights, the court concludes there can be no viable takings claim. The district court also rejected the excessive fines argument, noting that “neither the Supreme Court nor the Eighth Circuit has ever found a tax-related penalty or forfeiture to constitute an excessive fine.” Whether the forfeiture is a “fine” turns on the question of whether it is a form of punishment. The district court agreed with the County that the forfeiture at issue here was remedial as it related to helping the government recoup its costs associated with non-payment of property taxes and was therefore not a fine under the Eighth Amendment. The court rejected the argument that the forfeiture was punitive simply because the County received more than what was needed to make it whole. The issues on appeal are whether the County violated the Fifth Amendment or the Eighth Amendment’s Excessive Fines Clause by keeping the surplus of a property sale after the property is sold pursuant to a tax-related forfeiture. Filed May 28, 2021 (Supreme Court Petition Stage) Cortesluna v. Rivas-Villegas No. 20-1539 Pro Bono Author: Denise Rocawich & James Touchstone A 911 dispatch received a call from a 12-year-old girl that her mother’s boyfriend was threatening her, her sister, and her mother with a chainsaw. The child reported they had locked themselves in a bedroom. She described the boyfriend and noted he was drinking. Officers were dispatched to the scene. When the officers arrived, they saw Cortesluna through a window but did not see or hear a chainsaw. The officers formulated a plan, which included using less lethal force and went and knocked on the door to ask Cortesluna to come outside and speak with them. They announced themselves and when Cortesluna came to the door, he was holding a large metal object that appeared to be a crowbar. The officers ordered him to drop the weapon and come outside. The plaintiff dropped the metal object, put his hands up and came outside. The officers ordered him to his knees at which point, the officers noticed a knife in his pocket. They ordered him not to put his hands down (toward the knife) but to put his hands up. Cortesluna lowered his head and hands (toward the knife) and one of the officers, Officer Leon, immediately shot him with two rounds from a bean bag shotgun. He then put his hands up and they ordered him to get down on the ground, and he complied. Officer Rivas-Villegas then put his knee on Cortesluna’s back for no more than 8 seconds (there is a video of the incident) in order to get him restrained in handcuffs. This is a common police tactic which is used to prevent officer injury where a suspect is known to be armed, as was the case here. Cortesluna sued the officers, claiming excessive force for both the use of the bean bag shotgun and for the knee on his back for 8 seconds. The Ninth Circuit concluded that the officer who fired the beanbag gun did not violate the Fourth Amendment given the rapidly unfolding events and the threat to the officers when Cortesluna was reaching toward the knife in his pocket. As to officer Rivas-Villegas, however, the Ninth Circuit concluded that he violated the Fourth Amendment right to be free from excessive force “by leaning too hard” on Cortesluna’s back, allegedly causing injury because by the time he did so, the threat had passed. The Ninth Circuit also denied qualified immunity, concluding it was clearly established that “police may not kneel on a prone and nonresisting person’s back so hard as to cause injury.” The dissenting judge chastised the majority for downplaying “the dangers officers face in making arrests” “from the comfort of [their] chambers,” noting that the “suggestion that Cortesluna suddenly no longer posed a risk at the moment the beanbag shots were fired … is factually unreasonable.” The issues in the case are: (1) Whether the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit departed from the Supreme Court’s decisions in Graham v. Connor and Plumhoff v. Rickard in denying qualified immunity to Daniel Rivas-Villegas based upon the absence of a constitutional violation, by concluding that pushing a suspect down with a foot and briefly placing a knee against the back of a prone, armed suspect while handcuffing him, could constitute excessive force; and (2) whether the 9th Circuit departed from the Supreme Court’s decision in Kisela v. Hughes and numerous other cases by denying qualified immunity even though two judges concluded the use of force was reasonable, and notwithstanding the absence of clearly established law imposing liability under circumstances closely analogous to those confronting Rivas-Villegas. Filed May 24, 2021 (Texas Appellate Court, Third District) State of Texas v. City of Austin No. 03-21-00144-CV Pro Bono Author: LiJia Gong & Alan Bojorquez This case involves the State of Texas’ legal challenge to the City of Austin’s ordinance requiring facial coverings due to the coronavirus. On March 2, 2021, Texas Governor Greg Abbott issued Executive Order GA-34, which declared that Texas had “reopened for business as usual” and removed almost all mandatory COVID-19 precautionary measures such as limitations on the occupancy rates of certain businesses, limits on the size of public gatherings, social distancing, and the wearing of masks. GA-34 also purports to prohibit the authority of local governments to issue any “conflicting orders” that would include restrictions or limitations that exceed the Governor’s orders, including local ordinances that require the wearing of masks. GA-34 specifically suspends certain sections of the Texas Disaster Act that would otherwise authorize local governments to issue emergency management orders during a declared public disaster. Because the city continues to see ongoing threats of transmission, the introduction of new virus variants, a low percentage of vaccinations, and possible “super spreader public events” like spring break, the City sought to keep its mask mandate in place despite GA-34. The State of Texas sued the City. Austin argues that the Public Health Authority has the independent and express statutory authority provided to it from the Texas Legislature to take preventative measures in an effort to curb the transmission of infectious disease under the Local Public Health Reorganization Act, Tex. Health & Safety Code §121.024. The City contends that this authority is separate from and unrelated to the Governor’s emergency management authority and that the City’s mask ordinance is therefore not preempted by the Governor’s order. The issue in this case is whether local governments in Texas have the authority through their public health authority delegated to them by the Texas Legislature to take steps to stop the spread of communicable disease or does the Governor’s Executive Order preempt local authority in this area? Filed May 14, 2021 (Ninth Circuit) R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et. Al. v. County of Los Angeles No. 20-55930 Pro Bono Author: Joelle Lester & Rachel Bloomekatz Holding: The Tobacco Control Act does not preempt the County’s flavor ordinance. A Los Angeles County Ordinance prohibits tobacco retailers from selling flavored tobacco products and tobacco products are defined to include both cigarettes and e-cigarettes. Los Angeles County Ordinance § 11.35.070(E); § 11.35.020(J); § 11.35.020(U)(1)-(2). A number of tobacco companies sued seeking an injunction, claiming the ordinance was preempted by federal law. Specifically, they argue that the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA), 21 U.S.C. §§ 387-387u, expressly preempts the Ordinance because it impermissibly ‘‘establishes a state requirement that is ‘different from’ and ‘in addition to’ federal requirements related to tobacco product standards.’’ The district court rejected the argument that the ordinance is preempted, agreeing with the Second Circuit (which upheld a similar ban by New York City) “that a ban on flavored tobacco products was not a tobacco product standard” under the FSPTCA. The court reasoned the ordinance addressed only “whether final tobacco products are ultimately characterized by – or marketed as having – a flavor and is not easily read to direct manufacturers as to which ingredients they may or may not include in their products” which if it was, would infringe on the FDA’s authority to determine what chemicals and processes can be used in making tobacco products. The court also rejected the implied preemption arguments, finding the ordinance is “neither a manufacturing standard nor does it regulate the ingredients of tobacco products” and it therefore was not an obstacle to the purpose of the FSPTCA. Finally, the court notes that the FSPTCA has a Preservation Clause which “expressly preserves localities’ traditional power to adopt any ‘measure relating to or prohibiting the sale’ of tobacco products.’’ The issue in the case is whether the FSPTCA preempts either expressly or impliedly, the County’s Ordinance banning the sale of flavored tobacco products. Filed January __. 2021 (Missouri Supreme Court) Gross v. Parsons Pro Bono Author: Nathan M. Nickolaus This case involves a Sunshine Law issue before the Missouri Supreme Court, which if not overturned, would result in significant reduction in the ability of local governments to recover costs for public records requests in the State. Mr. Gross submitted a request for public records to Missouri Governor Michael Parson’s office, under the State’s Sunshine Law, seeking “[a]ny and all records, communications, documents, emails, reports, and other material” sent from the Governor’s Office from twenty-seven named individuals or entities after January 9, 2017, which Gross asserted were individuals and entities associated with “dark money” contributions during the previous Governor Eric Greitens’ term. The Office sent a letter to Gross stating that it found 13,659 documents that may be responsive to his request and provided an enclosed invoice estimating research and processing would take 90.46 hours at a $40/hour rate, which totaled to an estimated cost of $3,618.40 owed before it began preparing the information. Mr. Gross responded to the Office asking to waive its fees or explain why the Office was charging $40/hour instead of the clerical rate. When it refused to waive the fee, Mr. Gross filed an eight-count petition in the Circuit Court of Cole County against Gov. Parson and Hallford, the custodian of records for the Governor’s Office, alleging that they violated the Sunshine Law. The circuit court entered judgment dismissing the petition. The Western District Court of Appeals ruled in favor of Gross for five out of the ten issues presented in his appeal, including for our purposes, on the issue of cost. The Sunshine law has two different sections regarding what fees a public governmental body is authorized to charge, § 610.026.1(1) and § 610.026.1(2). Section 1(1) provides in relevant part that a fee for copying should not exceed 10¢/page with an hourly rate for copying to not exceed the average hourly rate of pay for clerical staff, and for research time. Section 1(2) states electronic records and states that costs “shall include only the cost of copies, staff time, which shall not exceed the average hourly rate of pay for staff of the public governmental body required for making copies and programming, if necessary, and the cost of the disk, tape, or other medium used for the duplication.” Traditionally sections 1(1) and (2) have been read in harmony. Entities subject to the production requirements were entitled to charge for research time regardless of the physical nature of the record. However, the Western District ruled that the two clauses should be read separately, resulting in allowing the research charge for physical records but not for electronically stored records The court reasoned that while specifically allowing the public governmental body to charge for “research time” under Section 1(1), and specifically limiting the charges for the staff time making the copies under Section 1(2) in the same legislation, it would be inconsistent to hold that attorney research time is assessable under Section 1(2). Thus, the court concluded that there was no authority in the language of the statute in Section 1(2), for a governmental body to assess research fees or attorney fees to a requester of records covered under Section 1(2). Furthermore, while the court found that the Governor’s General Counsel and his or her deputies are staff, it found that their research (in case there was work product or confidential information) was unnecessary to providing Gross possession of the records. The issues in our brief before the Missouri Supreme Court would focus on the elimination of cost recovery for research and attorney fees based on the different manner in which records are stored. Filed January 29, 2021 (Washington Supreme Court) Seattle v. Long No. 98824-2 Pro Bono Author: Matthew Segal Holding: The Washington Supreme Court held that Seattle’s imposition of a $547.12 fine to recoup its actual costs associated with towing and impounding his illegally parked vehicle constituted an excessive fine in violation of the Eighth Amendment. The court concluded the fine was punitive because impounding the vehicle was intended to be a “penalty” under the statute. The court then concluded that the fine was excessive because Mr. Long lived in his vehicle and did not have an ability to pay the fine and courts should consider an individual’s ability to pay in determining whether a fine is excessive. The Washington Supreme Court has granted review in this case, which involves a tow and impoundment of a vehicle being used as a residence by a homeless individual, Mr. Long. The police received a complaint that someone associated with Mr. Long’s pick-up truck threatened someone with a knife. No charges were filed related to this incident, however, the officers informed Mr. Long that his car was parked on City property and that it was illegal to park on City property for more than 72 hours. Parking enforcement put a sticker on the vehicle, providing notice that Mr. Long had 72 hours to move his vehicle. Parking enforcement then gave Mr. Long an extra 4 days to move his car as he had indicated he needed a part for it. When it still wasn’t moved, it was towed. Mr. Long contested the impound. Mr. Long did not dispute his vehicle was illegally parked, but instead indicated that he was living in his vehicle and that he was indigent. As relevant to IMLA, on appeal from the magistrate judge’s decision, Mr. Long argued that the City violated the Fourteenth Amendment’s substantive due process clause by acting with deliberate indifference to his personal and physical safety when it impounded his truck as he did not have shelter once it was towed. He also argued the impoundment was a penalty and amounted to an excessive fine under the Eighth Amendment due to the fact that he was homeless / indigent. The appeals court concluded that the City did not violate Mr. Long’s substantive due process rights and that the fees were not excessive under the Eighth Amendment. Filed January 12, 2021 (Missouri Supreme Court) Gross v. Parsons No. SC98619 Pro Bono Author: Nathan Nickolaus This case involves a Sunshine Law issue before the Missouri Supreme Court, which if not overturned, would result in significant reduction in the ability of local governments to recover costs for public records requests in the State. Mr. Gross submitted a request for public records to Missouri Governor Michael Parson’s office, under the State’s Sunshine Law, seeking “[a]ny and all records, communications, documents, emails, reports, and other material” sent from the Governor’s Office from twenty-seven named individuals or entities after January 9, 2017, which Gross asserted were individuals and entities associated with “dark money” contributions during the previous Governor Eric Greitens’ term. The Office sent a letter to Gross stating that it found 13,659 documents that may be responsive to his request and provided an enclosed invoice estimating research and processing would take 90.46 hours at a $40/hour rate, which totaled to an estimated cost of $3,618.40 owed before it began preparing the information. Mr. Gross responded to the Office asking to waive its fees or explain why the Office was charging $40/hour instead of the clerical rate. When it refused to waive the fee, Mr. Gross filed an eight-count petition in the Circuit Court of Cole County against Gov. Parson and Hallford, the custodian of records for the Governor’s Office, alleging that they violated the Sunshine Law. The circuit court entered judgment dismissing the petition. The Western District Court of Appeals ruled in favor of Gross for five out of the ten issues presented in his appeal, including for our purposes, on the issue of cost. The Sunshine law has two different sections regarding what fees a public governmental body is authorized to charge, § 610.026.1(1) and § 610.026.1(2). Section 1(1) provides in relevant part that a fee for copying should not exceed 10¢/page with an hourly rate for copying to not exceed the average hourly rate of pay for clerical staff, and for research time. Section 1(2) states electronic records and states that costs “shall include only the cost of copies, staff time, which shall not exceed the average hourly rate of pay for staff of the public governmental body required for making copies and programming, if necessary, and the cost of the disk, tape, or other medium used for the duplication.” Traditionally sections 1(1) and (2) have been read in harmony. Entities subject to the production requirements were entitled to charge for research time regardless of the physical nature of the record. However, the Western District ruled that the two clauses should be read separately, resulting in allowing the research charge for physical records but not for electronically stored records The court reasoned that while specifically allowing the public governmental body to charge for “research time” under Section 1(1), and specifically limiting the charges for the staff time making the copies under Section 1(2) in the same legislation, it would be inconsistent to hold that attorney research time is assessable under Section 1(2). Thus, the court concluded that there was no authority in the language of the statute in Section 1(2), for a governmental body to assess research fees or attorney fees to a requester of records covered under Section 1(2). Furthermore, while the court found that the Governor’s General Counsel and his or her deputies are staff, it found that their research (in case there was work product or confidential information) was unnecessary to providing Gross possession of the records. The issues in our brief before the Missouri Supreme Court would focus on the elimination of cost recovery for research and attorney fees based on the different manner in which records are stored. Filed November 13, 2020 (Southern District of Texas) State of Texas v. United States No. S.D. Tex. 1:18-cv-00068 Pro Bono Author: Mike Dundas The State of Texas challenges legality of the DACA program itself. MALDEF and the State of New Jersey have separately intervened in this case because the United States would not defend DACA at the time. Texas had filed a motion for summary judgment months ago, but that proceeding was stayed pending the Supreme Court’s decision in Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of the University of California, which was a challenge to the DACA program but purely under the Administrative Procedure Act, not the actual legality of the program itself. Once the Supreme Court ruled in the Regents case (that the decision to rescind DACA was unlawful under the APA), this case began moving forward. Based on our prior participation in this case at the Supreme Court and the fact that over fifty-five local governments were participating in the case, IMLA joined an amicus brief being filed by the City of Los Angeles. Filed October 29, 2020 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing En Banc) Grimm v. City of Portland Pro Bono Author: Jonathan Eisenman Status: The Ninth Circuit en banc court denied the petition for rehearing. Grimm parked his car and paid for parking through the City’s mobile App. When his parking expired, he neither moved his car, nor paid for parking. Over the course of seven days, the City left six citations on his illegally parked car. On the seventh day, Portland left a red tow slip on Grimm’s windshield. Retriever Towing then towed the car “promptly” that same day (the record does not reflect exactly how much time elapsed from the placement of the red towing slip to when the car was towed). There is a dispute as to whether another tow warning notice was placed on the car a few days before it was towed (and that issue was therefore resolved in Grimm’s favor at this stage). After Grimm realized his car was towed, he retrieved it and filed suit, alleging that the City violated the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process Clause by failing to provide adequate pre-tow notice. The district court ruled in favor of the City on summary judgment. The Ninth Circuit reversed, concluding that due process requires individualized notice before a car may be towed. The court emphasized that “the uninterrupted use of one’s vehicle is a significant private interest” and towing vehicles is a practice that “disproportionally prejudices low-income populations…” The court concluded that the Supreme Court’s decision in Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank controls and for due process to be satisfied, the notice provided must be “reasonably calculated” to provide notice that the car would be towed. Grimm claims that the City should have known that the citations on his car were ineffective notice because they remained on his windshield and the City therefore, according to Grimm, should have taken additional steps to notify him of the tow. The Ninth Circuit remanded to the district court to determine the following: (1) Is putting citations on a car that do not explicitly warn that the car will be towed reasonably calculated to give notice of a tow to the owner?; (2) Did the red tow slip placed on Grimm’s car shortly before the tow provide adequate notice?; and (3) Was Portland required under Jones to provide supplemental notice if it had reason to suspect that the notice provided by leaving citations and the tow slip on Grimm’s windshield was ineffective? Filed October 14, 2020 (Ninth Circuit) City of Anaheim v. Valenzuela Pro Bono Author: Steven Renick As relevant for our purposes, in July 2016, two officers ended up each applying a carotid hold to a suspect whom they sought to arrest. During the course of the attempted arrest, he offered significant resistance, would not submit to arrest, and ran away from them at one point. After the second carotid hold, the suspect, Mr. Valenzuela, lost consciousness. The officers performed CPR and he was transported to a hospital, but he died 8 days later. It was disputed how long the holds were applied and whether they were in fact carotid holds (the plaintiffs claim they were improperly applied and amounted to choke holds). The Anaheim police department had a policy allowing for the use of carotid holds in instances of non-deadly force (within certain parameters). The California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training offered mandatory training on the carotid hold for all California police officers at the time of the events in this case and they were trained on it as a non-lethal force restraint. The governor, in June of this year, ordered that law enforcement cease being trained on the use of the carotid hold. Mr. Valenzuela’s estate filed suit against the officers for excessive force and wrongful death. They also brought suit against the City based on an alleged unlawful policy and under a failure to train claim. The jury found that the officers had used excessive force against Mr. Valenzuela and found that the City was liable for having an unlawful policy, but not based on a failure to train claim. A second phase of the trial on damages followed and the jury returned a verdict awarding 3.6 million in damages for Mr. Valenzuela’s loss of life and $6 million for his pre-death pain and suffering. The jury also awarded 1.8 million each to his surviving estate members for wrongful death damages. On a motion for judgment as a matter of law, the court concluded the officers were not entitled to qualified immunity and that is not an issue IMLA briefed. The court also concluded that the City was liable under Monell for an unconstitutional policy because it allowed the use of carotid holds in non-deadly force situations. In terms of damages, the trial court also rejected the city’s argument that loss of life damages are not cognizable under Section 1983 despite the fact that state law does not recognize loss of life damages in the state survival statute. The court concluded that foreclosing recovery for loss of life damages is inconsistent with the policies behind Section 1983 and incentivizes officers to kill rather than injure. The issues IMLA focused on in its amicus brief are: - Whether a local government’s policy allowing the use of carotid holds in non-deadly force situations is unconstitutional as a matter of law despite a state training policy that sanctions it; and - Whether Section 1983 when applying a state survival statute allows for loss of life damages as a policy matter where the state law does not provide for loss of life damages. Filed September 16, 2020 (Fourth Circuit) Bauer v. Elrich No. 20-1707 Pro Bono Author: Danielle Goldstein Montgomery County established the Emergency Assistance Relief Payment (EARP) program, which provides direct cash benefits to certain county residents. According to the program’s website, the County established the program because “the COVID-19 pandemic is causing an unprecedented financial hardship for many Montgomery County residents…” The EARP program provides cash benefits between $500 – $1,450 depending on the number of people in the household. Families and individuals in the County are eligible if: (1) they are residents and need financial assistance to pay for food and essentials, (2) they are not eligible for federal and state financial relief programs or unemployment benefits; (3) have income equal to or less than 50% of the federal poverty level. Taxpayers in the County sued, alleging that the County is violating 8 USC § 1621 because they claim the program is intended to provide direct cash benefits to undocumented immigrants. Section 1621(a) provides that an undocumented immigrant is not eligible for any State or local public benefits except certain benefits outlined in subsection (b), such as health care services, non-cash assistance, and disaster relief. Subsection (d) provides that a State may affirmatively enact a law after August 22, 1996 to provide “an alien who is not lawfully present in the United States is eligible for any State or local public benefit for which such alien would otherwise be ineligible under subsection (a)…” The County argued that Section 1621 does not authorize the taxpayers to bring a private right of action and that they therefore do not have standing to sue. The County also argued that the EARP program is authorized under subsection (d) because under home-rule provisions of the Maryland Constitution, Maryland has authorized the County to enact locally applicable laws that have the force of state law. Finally, the County argues that the law violates the Tenth Amendment in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in Murphy v. NCAA because it does not regulate individuals directly and instead purports to regulate States’ enactment and administration of their benefits programs. The district court dismissed the complaint, concluding that Congress did not authorize private parties to enforce Sec. 1621. The court therefore found it unnecessary to rule on the other legal issues raised by the County, including whether Section 1621 violated the Tenth Amendment. The issues before the Fourth Circuit are: - Whether Section 1621 authorizes private parties to bring suit against a local government for an alleged violation of the statute; - Whether Section 1621 violates the Tenth Amendment; and - Whether the County’s ordinance authorizing the EARP program is an enactment under State law for the purposes of Section 1621 given the County’s home-rule authority. Filed August 10, 2020 (Hawai’i Intermediate Court of Appeals) Flores v. Ballard No. CAAP-19-0000841 Pro Bono Author: Alan Cohen Held: The temporary assignment of police officers from one county to another is authorized under Hawaii law. This case arises out of protests by Native Hawaiian people residing in Hawaii County regarding the government’s agreement to allow the construction of a 30 foot telescope / observatory at the top of Mauna Kea, a mountain that is considered sacred by many Native Hawaiians. The protests spanned several weeks and Hawaii County sought assistance from law enforcement in neighboring Maui County and Honolulu County to help police the protests. The Plaintiff in this case claims his First Amendment rights were infringed by police officers from other jurisdictions when they prevented him from accessing the road to the top of Mauna Kea. Plaintiff claims that the police officers from other jurisdictions had no authority to engage in police activities in Hawaii County and violated Hawaii Rev. Stat. § 52D-5 by doing so. Hawaii Rev. Stat. § 52D-5, “Powers of chief of police outside own county,” states: The chief of police of each county and any duly authorized subordinates shall have and may exercise all powers, privileges, and authority necessary to enforce the laws of the State, in a county other than the county in and for which the chief has been appointed, if: (1) The exercise of such power, privilege, and authority is required in the pursuit of any investigation commenced within the county in and for which the chief has been appointed; and (2) The concurrence of the chief of police of the county in which the power, privilege, and authority sought to be exercised is obtained. The Plaintiff contends that because the investigation did not commence in Honolulu County or Maui County, those officers had no jurisdiction to police the protests in Hawaii County and he sued for declaratory and injunctive relief. Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, countering that allowing the Plaintiff to proceed is contrary to the plain language and purpose of the statute, which they argue provides no private right of action. They also argue that the mutual aid / intra-governmental assistance statute contemplates exactly the types of assistance provided in this case. Specifically, they argue Haw. Rev. Stat. §72-27 authorizes the “temporary assignment of Honolulu Police Department employees to the Hawaii County Police Department by agreement, which was implemented here.” That law provides in relevant part as follows: With the approval of the respective employer, a governmental unit of this State may participate in any program of temporary inter- or intra-governmental assignments or exchanges of employees as a sending or receiving agency. “Agency” means any local, national, or foreign governmental agency or private agency with government sponsored programs or projects. (d) An agreement consistent with this section and policies of the employer shall be made between the sending and receiving agencies on matters relating to the assignment or exchange, including but not limited to supervision of duties, costs of salary and benefits, and travel and transportation expenses; provided that the agreement shall not diminish any rights or benefits to which an employee of a governmental unit of this State is entitled under this section. The district court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint, concluding that the purpose of Haw. Rev. Stat. s. 52D-5 is “to provide continuity to police investigations from one county jurisdiction to another and to also protect the local control and assure cooperation through the provision of notification to a county chief of police when investigations are to be pursued within this jurisdiction or another jurisdiction.” The court concluded that there was therefore no private right of action to pursue a violation and dismissed the complaint. Although this is a state court case involving a Hawaii statute, IMLA believes these types of mutual aid agreements are extremely common and that allowing a private citizen to attack their validity here, would undermine their authority elsewhere. Moreover, these types of agreements are particularly helpful for smaller jurisdictions that simply do not have the funds to have extra police officers at the ready in case of large-scale protests or disasters. Filed July 27, 2020 (Utah Supreme Court) Salt Lake City Corp. v. Utah Inland Port Authority No. 20200118-SC Pro Bono Author: Richard Briffault Utah passed the Utah Inland Port Authority Act, which established the Port Authority Board, an eleven-member board of directors with only two members representing the City in order to develop an inland port in Salt Lake City. Every representative of the City area voted against the bill. The City had concerns regarding the Act’s delegations of the City’s traditional authority over land use, infrastructure, tax revenue and municipal functions to the Board. The Act reclassified the entire 16,157 acres of “authority jurisdictional land” as one project area, roughly 13,000 acres of which are within the City. Landowners collectively own 472 parcels of real property within the jurisdictional land. Under the Act, 100% of growth-related property tax differential associated with the development of inland port uses on the jurisdiction land is diverted to the Authority (rather than the City). The Act also authorized the Authority to immediately collect growth-related property tax throughout a collection period of 40 years. Moreover, the City is prohibited from banning inland port functions and required to maintain infrastructure to support inland port functions (the Act required reimbursement to the City for such developments). Lastly, the law delegates the authority of land-use-decision-making to the Authority with respect to projects on the jurisdictional land that constitute “inland port uses.” The City brought suit, arguing that the Utah Constitution’s “Ripper Clause” prohibits the Utah State Legislature from seizing control from Salt Lake City in this manner. Utah’s Constitution includes a Ripper Clause, which provides: “The Legislature shall not delegate to any special commission, private corporation or association, any power to make, supervise or interfere with any municipal improvement, money, property or effects . . . to levy taxes, . . . or to perform any municipal function.” Utah. Const. Art VI, § 28. The court held that the Act did not violate the Ripper Clause or the other provisions of the Utah Constitution. The court found the diversion of tax differential to finance construction of inland port projects, the prohibition against the City’s interference with inland port uses, and the requirement that the City furnish infrastructure to support inland port uses with the right of reimbursement all fell outside the scope of the Ripper Clause—they are direct legislative mandates, rather than delegations of authority to the Authority or anyone else. The court reasoned that the Ripper Clause only prohibited delegations of municipal authority to special commissions not direct legislative mandates. The court found that only the City’s claims that the State’s delegation of authority regarding land use decisions could possibly fall within the prohibitions of the Ripper Clause. However, regarding the delegation of land use functions, the court found that even if the Authority is a “special commission” within the meaning of the Ripper Clause, the State has articulated sufficiently compelling state interests and those interests are “sufficiently infused with state interest that they do not violate the Ripper Clause.” The court reasoned that the “[l]egislature is not prohibited from rescinding police powers it has granted to municipalities in the defense of a strong state purpose…” Filed July 21, 2020 (Superior Court, State of Georgia) Kemp v. Bottoms Pro Bono Author: Rusi Patel Status: The governor withdrew his lawsuit against the City. The Governor of Georgia “strongly encourages” individuals to wear face coverings, but his executive orders do not require individuals to wear face coverings. The Mayor of the City of Atlanta issued an order requiring individuals in the City to wear face coverings in indoor public spaces and when outside and social distancing is not feasible. Georgia law also provides that the “political subdivisions of the state…are authorized and empowered to make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out of Articles 1 through 3 of [Chapter 38 of the Georgia Code], but not inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by the Governor.” O.C.G.A. §38-3-28(a). Despite this provision of Georgia law, each of the Governor’s executive orders related to the public health emergency contains a purported preemption clause for local government rules indicating: [C]ounty and municipal governments are authorized and empowered to make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out of this Order, but such orders, rules, and regulations shall not be inconsistent with this Order or any other orders, rules, and regulations promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power derived from the Public Health State of Emergency declaration. For the purpose of this provision, orders, rules, and regulations that are promulgated by county and municipal governments that are more or less restrictive than the terms of this Order shall be considered inconsistent with this Order. Executive Order 07.15.20.01, p.32. (emphasis added). Additionally, in relation to masks and face coverings, the Governor’s 7/15/20 Executive Order strongly encourages residents and visitors of the State of Georgia “to wear face coverings as practicable while outside their homes or place of residence, except when eating, drinking, or exercising outdoors.” However, unlike preceding executive orders, it also adds a new, specific, purported preemption clause on the issue of wearing masks and face coverings as regulated by the state and by local governments, which states: That pursuant to Code Section 38-3-28, other than orders issued pursuant to the authority of Code Section 38-3-60 et seq., any state, county, or municipal law, order, ordinance, rule, or regulation that requires persons to wear face coverings, masks, face shields, or any other Personal Protective Equipment while in places of public accommodation or on public property are suspended to the extent that they are more restrictive than this Executive Order. Executive Order 07.15.20.01, p.32. (emphasis added) After the Governor issued his executive order seeking to preempt Atlanta’s order requiring masks, he sued the Mayor of Atlanta to enjoin the City from requiring individuals in the City to wear masks pursuant to the Mayor’s order despite the fact that as of the time the lawsuit was filed, nearly 3,500 people from Georgia have died from COVID-19 and the spread of disease was increasing within the State. IMLA filed an amicus brief in support of the City of Atlanta in this case. Filed July 7, 2020 (Supreme Judicial Court of Maine) Portland Pipeline Corporation v. City of South Portland No. FED-20-40 Pro Bono Author: Sarah Fox Held:The Maine Supreme Judicial Court concluded state law did not preempt the City’s ordinance. The case is now pending again before the First Circuit (because the First Circuit had certified 3 questions of state law to Maine’s highest court). Portland Pipeline Corporation (PPLC) operates a number of pipelines which pass underground between South Portland and Montreal, Canada where the oil refineries are. South Portland maintains Pier 2, where tanker vessels have historically docked to deliver oil. Pier 2 is in the City’s shipping zoning district (“S”) and is adjacent to public parks. PPLC has transported oil northbound to Montreal for decades by offloading oil from Pier 2, transporting it 2.5 miles to its “Main Tank Farm” and then loading it into its pipelines. The Main Tank Farm is zoned “C” for Commercial and is adjacent to residential neighborhoods, schools, etc. PPLC sought to reverse the flow of oil in some of its pipelines, such that it would be bringing crude oil or “tar sands” oil from Montreal and then load it onto ships in the City’s harbor for shipment to both US and international destinations. In 2012-2013, advocates began opposing the flow reversal project. An initial ordinance that would have banned the project failed in the city council, but the council agreed to a moratorium on development proposals involving the loading of oil sands / tar sands products onto tank vessels docking in the City to study the implications in terms of land use, environmental, health effects, and other regulatory implications of the development proposal. Over the next six months, the City created a committee to study the impacts of the proposed development and invited PPLC to participate in the hearings held by the committee. The City concluded that higher concentrations of HAP emissions caused by the crude oil loading would cause increases in City residents’ risk of cancer and that these risks were particularly concerning due to the proximity of the PPLC facilities to schools, parks, and other areas most used by children and the elderly. Ultimately, after extensive hearings and study, the city council voted to pass the Clear Skies Ordinance, which sought to protect citizens and visitors from harmful effects caused by air pollutants and conserve natural resources. The Ordinance prohibits the storing and handling of petroleum or petroleum products for the “bulk loading of crude oil onto any marine tank vessel” in commercial and shipping zoning districts. The Ordinance further prohibits the installation or construction of any structures with the potential to emit air pollutants for the purpose of loading of crude oil onto any marine tank vessel in the C and S zoning districts. PPLC argues that if it cannot reverse the flow of its pipeline, the company will go out of business and the ordinance prohibits it from doing so. PPLC sued, arguing that the zoning ordinance is preempted by a number of federal and state laws, including the interstate pipeline safety act (PSA), the Port and Waterways Safety Act (PWSA), federal maritime law and that the ordinance violates the dormant commerce clause. The district court found that the ordinance was not preempted by any federal or state law, did not violate the dormant commerce clause and was instead, a lawful exercise of a local government’s historical police powers. IMLA submitted an amicus brief to the First Circuit, which in turn certified certain state law questions to the Maine Supreme Judicial Court before issuing its ruling, consistent with the doctrine of constitutional avoidance. IMLA’s amicus brief addressed following questions, which the First Circuit certified to the Maine Supreme Judicial Court: - Is the City of South Portland’s Clear Skies Ordinance preempted by Maine’s Coastal Conveyance Act?; and - Is there any basis for finding that Main’s Coastal Conveyance Act impliedly preempts the City of South Portland’s Clear Sky Ordinance? Filed July 6, 2020 (D.C. Circuit) Union of Concerned Scientists, et. al v. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration No. 19-1230 Pro Bono Author: Michael Burger The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) finalized the “proposed regulatory text implementing its statutory authority to set nationally applicable fuel economy standards that made explicit that those State programs would also be preempted under NHTSA’s authorities.” In other words, in the final rule NHTSA has preempted California’s and other states’ regulation of emissions from applicable vehicles. 24 States and 2 Cities have sued the Secretary of Transportation, making a number of administrative law and preemption related arguments. First, they argue that the Preemption Regulation exceeds NHTSA’s statutory authority and is therefore unlawful under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). Second, the state and local government challengers argue the Preemption Regulation is ultra vires – it is beyond the agency’s scope of authority, because NHTSA “does not identify any statute or other authority that authorizes the regulation” and that it therefore violates the separation of powers and infringes on a historic state police power. Third, they offer numerous arguments for why the Preemption Regulation is arbitrary and capricious under the APA. While the case involves the federal government preempting state law, we have seen the federal government encroaching on local authority in a number of areas and IMLA voted to participate in this case based on its belief that a strong Tenth Amendment helps preserve local autonomy in addition to State sovereignty. Further, the brief points out that the agency’s expansive interpretation of EPCA could be construed to argue that local programs to address transportation pollution are also preempted. The brief also discusses additional harms to local governments that results from climate change, including economic harms, property harm, increased harm to local governments’ citizens and explains that local governments therefore have a significant interest in controlling vehicle emissions in order to minimize air pollution and its negative health and economic effects. Filed June 5, 2020 (Washington Supreme Court) Garfield County Transportation Authority et al. v. State of Washington No. 19-3358 Pro Bono Author: Erin Scharff In the general election in November 2019, 53% of Washington voters state-wide approved Initiative No. 976 (I-976), concerning motor vehicle taxes and fees and limited the annual motor-vehicle-license fees to $30. The result was to reduce locally enacted annual license fees which ranged from $20-$100 per vehicle registration and in the aggregate bring in millions in revenue for local governments. Many local governments filed suit, claiming that if I-976 is initiated, they will experience significant financial harm, including drastic reductions in funding for public transit. They also argue that the Washington Constitution reflects a profound respect for local home rule particularly as to local taxing and spending decisions. Specifically, Article XI, section 12 of the Washington constitution states: The legislature shall have no power to impose taxes upon counties, cities, towns or other municipal corporations or upon the inhabitants or property thereof, for county, city, town, or other municipal purposes, but may, by general laws, vest in the corporate authorities thereof, the power to assess and collect taxes for such purposes. The local government plaintiffs argue that I-976 upends the system of home rule, inserting the State into local government decisions about how to tax and spend to address local concerns and that it will substantially decrease the amount of funding available for transportation projects statewide, including many projects that are critical from a public safety standpoint. The district court rejected the local governments’ arguments that I-976 was unconstitutional, including their argument that the Constitution specifically prohibited the State legislature from directing local governments and its citizens how to tax and spend for local purposes. The local governments raise a number of state constitutional issues, but IMLA’s brief focused on the following issues: - Does I-976 violate article XI, section 12 by depriving municipal governments of vested local taxing authority for local purposes prior to expiration of the local tax? - Does I-976 violate article I, section 19 by using a statewide vote to override existing local votes and diluting the voice of local voters on matters of local concern? Filed April 27, 2020 (Seventh Circuit) United States Conference of Mayors v. Barr No. 19-3358 Pro Bono Author: David Saunders & Gabriel Gillett This litigation concerns the U.S. Attorney General’s (AG) ability to attach immigration conditions to the Byrne Jag grant, a formula grant, that Congress charged his office with distributing to State and local governments. The City of Evanston and USCM filed suit, arguing that the imposition of the conditions violated the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) because they were beyond the AG’s statutory authority and that they violated the Spending Clause of the Constitution as well as the separation of powers. Every court to review the question of whether the AG had the authority to impose the conditions on a formula grant has ruled that he did not. And like every other court before it, the district court in this case ruled that the AG violated the APA by imposing the conditions on the grants. The court ordered that the AG was permanently enjoined from imposing the conditions on Evanston and on any USCM member. USCM is a non-profit and non-partisan membership association. Its members are cities, which are represented in USCM by their mayors. The DOJ argued that USCM did not have associational standing to litigate this case on behalf of its members. The court rejected DOJ’s arguments, finding that USCM did have standing to seek relief on behalf of its members because: 1) at least one of its members would have standing to sue on its own behalf; 2) the interest USCM sought to protect was germane to the association’s purpose, namely coordinating cities’ interaction with the federal government and preventing overreach by the federal government; 3) the claim and the relief do not require participation of individual USCM members because the suit raises pure legal questions. IMLA focused on whether an association has standing to bring suit on behalf of its members. Filed January 24, 2020 (Fourth Circuit) Reyazuddin v. Montgomery County No. Pro Bono Author: Daniel Peterson Held: The Fourth Circuit held the employee was the prevailing party under the Rehabilitation Act for the purposes of recovering attorney’s fees because the jury found the County liable for discrimination even though she was not awarded any compensatory damages and had no enforceable judgment against the County. The plaintiff is blind and was employed as a customer service representative for Montgomery County’s call center. The County moved to a new call center, which came with new software and that software was not accessible to the blind. The plaintiff was denied the opportunity to move to the new call center and she sued the County, claiming that the County failed to accommodate her disability when did not transfer her to the new call center. The plaintiff brought suit under the ADA and the Rehabilitation Act. The district court granted summary judgment in favor of the County on all claims, but the Fourth Circuit reversed on the Rehabilitation Claim. That claim went to trial and the jury ultimately found the County had failed to accommodate the plaintiff but awarded $0 in damages (apparently her attorneys did not request nominal or economic damages). After the jury’s verdict, the County transferred the plaintiff to her desired position. After the transfer, the district court denied the plaintiff’s motion for injunctive relief, concluding “she was no longer employed in inadequate alternative position…” and the court also denied declaratory relief, concluding that such relief would be superfluous of the jury’s verdict. The Fourth Circuit affirmed. The plaintiff then filed a motion for attorney’s fees, claiming she was the “prevailing party” under the Rehabilitation Act. To be a “prevailing party” under the statute, the plaintiff must receive an enforceable judgment. The district court denied her motion, finding that the term “prevailing party” is a legal term of art, and she did not meet the requirements under the statute because she received no damages from the jury and there is a difference between nominal and no damages for the purpose of determining if someone is a prevailing party. That is because the jury’s award of no damages did not “materially alter the legal relationship between the parties…” The district court explained that a judicial announcement that the defendant has violated the law, without more, does not make the plaintiff a “prevailing party” under the statute. The court also rejected the plaintiff’s argument that she “prevailed” because she was transferred to her desired position. The court reasoned that such an argument is “simply advancing the catalyst theory, which posits that a plaintiff is a prevailing party if it achieves the desired result because the lawsuit brought about a voluntary change in the defendant’s conduct” and the Supreme Court has expressly held that the “catalyst theory” cannot form the basis for attorney’s fees. The issue as framed by the appellant in this case is: Where, after a jury found that the County violated the Rehabilitation Act by failing to provide the Plaintiff with reasonable accommodations, and where, after the verdict, but before the district court entered judgment in her favor, the County accommodated the Plaintiff, did the district court err in finding that she was not the “prevailing party” under 29 U.S.C. § 794a? Filed December 30, 2019 & January 6, 2020 (Tenth Circuit / First Circuit) Board of County Commissions of Boulder County v. Suncor / Rhode Island v. Chevron No. Pro Bono Author: Robert Peck Status: The Tenth and First Circuits remanded the Colorado localities climate suit to state court, which was a win for the local governments. These cases involve federalism and preemption principles and the decisions will implicate a local governments ability to bring suit under state nuisance laws broadly. Cities and counties across the United States have brought lawsuits against major oil and gas companies claiming they knew for decades their products caused climate change but denied or downplayed the threat while promoting their products. The complaints claim that the defendants engaged in an overt public relations campaign intended to cast doubt on climate science. These lawsuits have been brought under state common law (including public and private nuisance, trespass, negligence, etc.). The suits seek damages or compensation for current and future costs associated with climate change (such as health related deaths, flooding due to sea-level rise, etc.). By way of background, in American Electric Power v. Connecticut (2011) the Supreme Court held a federal common law public nuisance lawsuit seeking an injunction against power companies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs), brought by cities and states, was displaced by the Clean Air Act, which delegates authority to regulate GHGs to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The oil companies in these cases argue that first, a federal common law public nuisance claim for climate change does exist and, second, that as a result of the existence of a federal nuisance claim cities and counties cannot bring state common law claims for damages for climate change. They then argue that any federal common law nuisance claim was displaced by the Clean Air Act under American Electric Power regardless of the actual theory of liability in these cases. The issue in these case is whether cities and counties may bring state common law claims seeking damages or compensation for climate change impacts. Filed December 11, 2019 (Sixth Circuit) Metropolitan Government of Nashville & Davidson County v. Bennett Pro Bono Author: Stephanie Gumm, Robert Hagemann, Joanna King, & Colin McGrath Held: The Sixth Circuit concluded that Nashville did not violate the First Amendment when it fired a 9-11 dispatcher who used a racially offensive slur in the context of the 2016 election in a public Facebook post that identified her as an employee of the City. The morning after the 2016 Presidential Election, Plaintiff posted an image of an electoral college map that revealed Donald Trump as the winner of the election. A Facebook user, identified as Mohamed Aboulmaouabhib, commented on Plaintiff’s post of the electoral college map, “Redneck states voter for Trump, niggaz and latinos states votre for hillary.” Plaintiff responded, “Thank god we have more America loving rednecks. Red spread all across America. Even Niggaz and latinos voted for Trump too!” Plaintiff’s response prompted a co-worker, to comment, “Was the niggaz statement a joke? I don’t offense easily, I’m just really shocked to see that from you.” Plaintiff defended her comment and replied that her post was in response to Mr. Aboulmaouabhib’s “ignorant message” and she was “only racists against ignorance and rudeness.” Later, another co-worker commented, “I’m offended and this will be reported. As well as deleted.” Several co-workers complained to their respective supervisors, their respective managers, the Emergency Communications Center (“ECC”) HR department or the Metro HR department about the content of Plaintiff’s Facebook post. A citizen also complained to the Mayor’s Office of Neighborhoods and indicated that based on the content of Plaintiff’s post, the complainant feared a person of color may not receive adequate assistance when calling 911. The Office of Neighborhoods informed the ECC Director. When the ECC Director spoke with Plaintiff, Plaintiff indicated she did not feel the post was offensive and was merely mocking the person who posted before her. The Director ultimately terminated her employment after she showed no remorse or accountability. The Plaintiff appealed and an administrative law judge and the civil services commission both upheld the termination decision. She then filed a federal lawsuit arguing her termination violated the First Amendment and the district court denied Nashville’s summary judgment motion, concluding that under Pickering, the factors weighed in the employee’s favor such that a jury should decide the issue. Specifically, the court found given “Plaintiff’s significant interest in speaking on a matter of core public concern —which did not relate to her job duties—and the relatively slim evidence of workplace disruption resulting therefrom, the Court concludes Defendant’s interest in workplace efficiency is less robust than Plaintiff’s interest in commenting on a presidential election.” The case went to a jury to answer special interrogatories on questions of fact. The district court judge then took those jury interrogatory answers to rule on the legal matters presented in the case such as whether the employee’s speech was protected by the First Amendment and to conduct the Pickering balancing test. The court ultimately ruled in favor of the plaintiff, concluding that Nashville violated her First Amendment rights by terminating her employment for the offensive Facebook post and then the jury found the City liable. Nashville is appealing the decision to the Sixth Circuit and among the issues to be appealed is whether the plaintiff’s use of the n-word is constitutionally protected conduct in the public employment context. Nashville will also likely appeal the manner in which Pickering was applied in this case given that it gave less weight to workplace disharmony than it would have for police and fire departments. Filed October 25, 2019 (Second Circuit) City of Syracuse v. Grant Pro Bono Author: Amanda Kellar & Erich Eiselt Police were called to the Grant home on a domestic disturbance call. When they responded, they found the husband in an agitated state and asked him to go outside. They sought to detain him for safety purposes and a fight broke out between the husband, who is much larger, and one of the officers. The police officer struck him a number of times with his hand. A second officer came over during the struggle and hit the husband with a knee strike and head lock. They were then able to subdue him and got him medical attention for a broken nose and concussion. The husband and wife both sued the police officers and the city, claiming that when the officers arrived the situation was entirely under control and that they told the officers they no longer needed their services, but the officers nevertheless entered their home without permission and proceeded to arrest the husband without probable cause given that the domestic situation was, according to the plaintiffs, entirely under control by the time they arrived. They claim the use of force was entirely unprovoked whereas the officers claim Mr. Grant initiated the physical altercation. The plaintiffs brought claims under Section 1983 for false imprisonment and excessive force as well as claims against the City under Monell. On the Monell claim, the plaintiffs allege that the City’s deliberate indifference to civil complaints of police brutality has resulted in the customary use of excessive force by its police officers, and, as a proximate result of such policy, they suffered injuries. The plaintiffs introduced evidence at trial from a Citizen Review Board (CRB), which contained information about hundreds of complaints against officers over a multi-year period and the recommendations by the CRB as to discipline, as well as the police department’s actual action taken against each officer. The plaintiffs argued that the CRB report demonstrated a pattern of excessive force that went undisciplined which created a climate whereby officers felt empowered to act with impunity. The district court denied summary judgment to the officers on the excessive force and false imprisonment charges, finding enough disputed facts to send the case to a jury. The district court also denied summary judgment on the Monell claim and refused a motion to bifurcate the Monell claim from the individual officers’ claims, even though the Monell claim relied on evidence from the CRB, which the City argued would prejudice the jury against the officers. A jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs for nearly 2 million dollars not including attorney’s fees. The city is appealing on a number of issues, but IMLA will focus on the district court’s failure to bifurcate the trial and the introduction of the CRB report. Filed April 23, 2019 (Tenth Circuit) Smart v. City of Wichita No. 18-3242 Pro Bono Author: Christopher Balch Held: The court held that the officers were entitled to qualified immunity for all of their actions with the exception of the last two bullets fired after the suspect was already on the ground. Bars were closing in downtown Wichita around 1:45 am and around 200-300 people were socializing outside on the streets. Office Froese exited his vehicle and started to walk toward what looked like a fight so he could intervene when he heard a gunshot. He turned toward the shot and saw Smart, whom he believed was holding a gun, and then two more shots were fired. Officer Chaffee was positioned in a different part of the crowd and also heard gun shots. Chaffee also saw Smart, and also testified that Smart appeared to be holding a gun. Immediately after the gun was fired, people in the crowd panicked and began running, most going South. Smart, however, started running north. The officers chased Smart and believed he was still holding a gun. As he closed in on him, Officer Froese fired on Smart (it is disputed as to whether he gave a warning). Officer Chaffee, coming from a different direction heard the shots, but didn’t know if Smart or an officer had fired them. Chaffee then fired on Smart and Smart fell to the ground at which point he was fired on 3 more times by Chaffee and was killed (it is similarly disputed as to whether Chaffee gave warnings before firing on Smart). Whether Smart was holding a gun is a disputed fact, however, it is undisputed that the officers believed he was armed and had fired the shots into the crowd. A handgun was found 10 feet from Smart in the alley where he was shot and casings at the scene where shots were fired into the crowd were linked to the gun found near Smart. Smart’s estate sued the officers under Section 1983, claiming a Fourth Amendment violation. The district court concluded that there were enough factual disputes that for the purposes of summary judgment, the plaintiffs met their burden to show that the officers violated Smart’s Fourth Amendment rights. Specifically, the court concluded that for the purposes of summary judgment, it would assume Smart did not have a gun (though conceded this would be up for the jury to decide) and thus, he could not have been threatening the officers or bystanders. Further, the court concluded that a jury could deem even a mistaken perception by the officers that he had a gun to be unreasonable for the purposes of summary judgment. In other words, if Smart didn’t have a gun, a jury would need to decide whether their mistaken belief that he did have a gun was reasonable such that deadly force would be justified. Nonetheless, the court went on to conclude that the officers were entitled to qualified immunity because the law was not sufficiently clear that their conduct was unconstitutional. The court explained that the plaintiffs failed to point to any precedent that would squarely govern the facts at issue in the case, or to show that the officers’ actions were plainly incompetent, or that they knowingly violated the law. Specifically, the court explained that nobody disputes that shots were fired into a crowd of hundreds of people, or that officers were confronted with a “chaotic situation and the need to quickly disarm the shooter to protect innocent bystanders.” The court concluded that it was not egregious for the officers to shoot Smart under the mistaken perception that he was the active shooter under these circumstances. The issues on appeal are whether the officers violated the Fourth Amendment and if so, whether the law was clearly established such that they would not be entitled to qualified immunity. Filed September 25, 2019 (Ohio Supreme Court) City of Athens et. al. v. McClain No. Pro Bono Author: Erin Scharff Held: (1) the General Assembly’s authority to limit the power of municipalities to tax allows it to broadly preempt municipal income taxes and to require that such taxes be imposed in strict accordance with the terms dictated by legislation passed by the General Assembly; and (2) The General Assembly’s appropriation of .5 percent of the municipal nettax proceeds is not a valid act of limitation. The State of Ohio passed H.B. 49, which allows businesses to opt for the State to collect and administer municipal net profit taxes. Prior to the passage of H.B. 49, each municipality would control that collection and administration process. Under the new law, municipalities have 90 days to report to the state tax commissioner specific information about the taxpayer and if it fails to do so, the tax commissioner may penalize the municipality by withholding 50% of the net-profit-tax revenue due to the municipality. Further, the state retains .5% of all net profit taxes paid as a fee for the collection and administration of services. The law also authorizes the State to decide on taxpayer requests for refunds of municipal taxes and does not allow municipalities to participate in that process. Ohio has a Constitutional Home Rule Provision, which provides: “[m]unicipalities shall have authority to exercise all powers of local self-government and to adopt and enforce within their limits such local police, sanitary and other similar regulations, as are not in conflict with general laws.” The trial and appellate courts in Ohio found that the challenged provisions of Ohio state law were constitutional under the Home Rule Amendment. Regarding the municipal power to tax, the appellate court concluded that Article XIII, Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution, which states that “laws may be passed to limit the power of municipalities to levy taxes * * * for local purposes,” allowed the State to enact the legislation. Specifically, in interpreting the term “levy,” the court concluded that the General Assembly was permitted to enact legislation limiting municipalities’ power to impose, collect, and administer taxes without violating the Home Rule Amendment. The municipalities recognize that the Ohio Constitution requires balance with respect to municipal taxation power given the limiting provision. However, they argue that finding a balance necessarily requires a more nuanced examination of how that power is exercised. And in this case, the specific limiting power has been applied to displace municipalities’ general power of taxation provided by the Home Rule Amendment, which they argue is unconstitutional. The issue before the Ohio Supreme Court is whether the Home Rule Amendment of the Ohio Constitution grants municipal corporations a general power of municipal taxation, and if so, where a State law engulfs municipal corporations’ general power of taxation, whether that State law is unconstitutional. Filed September 4, 2019 (Fourth Circuit) Mayor & City Council of Baltimore v. BP P.L.C., Pro Bono Author: Michael Burger Held: The Fourth Circuit remanded the case to state court Cities and counties across the United States have brought lawsuits against major oil and gas companies claiming they knew for decades their products caused climate change but denied or downplayed the threat while promoting their products. The complaints claim that the defendants engaged in an overt public relations campaign intended to cast doubt on climate science. These lawsuits have been brought under state common law (including public and private nuisance, trespass, negligence, etc.). The suits seek damages or compensation for current and future costs associated with climate change (such as health related deaths, flooding due to sea-level rise, etc.). By way of background, in American Electric Power v. Connecticut (2011) the Supreme Court held a federal common law public nuisance lawsuit seeking an injunction against power companies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs), brought by cities and states, was displaced by the Clean Air Act, which delegates authority to regulate GHGs to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The oil companies in these cases argue that first, a federal common law public nuisance claim for climate change does exist and, second, that as a result of the existence of a federal nuisance claim cities and counties cannot bring state common law claims for damages for climate change. They then argue that any federal common law nuisance claim was displaced by the Clean Air Act under American Electric Power regardless of the actual theory of liability in these cases. A federal district court granted the City of Baltimore’s motion to remand to Maryland state court the City of Baltimore’s case against fossil fuel companies for climate change-related damages. The district court held that the City’s public nuisance claim was not governed by federal common law, and that its claims did not necessarily raise substantial and disputed federal issues and were not completely preempted. The court also held that there was no federal enclave jurisdiction, no jurisdiction under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, no federal officer removal jurisdiction, and no bankruptcy removal jurisdiction. The issue in this case is whether cities and counties may bring state common law claims seeking damages or compensation for climate change impacts. Filed August 6, 2019 (Court of Appeals of Texas) Texas v. City of Double Horn No. 03-19-00304 Pro Bono Author: Zindia Thomas This case involves a challenge by the Texas Attorney General to a city’s incorporation. Voters in the county voted to incorporate the city in a special election and after the results were confirmed, a county judge entered the municipal incorporation. Since that time, the city has elected a mayor and alderman, and engaged in various governmental functions. The State challenges the city’s incorporation claiming that it was invalid 1) because the city was not an unincorporated town or village and therefore could not incorporate; and 2) because the city’s incorporation includes property that is not to be used strictly for town purposes. The City argues that the municipality is already undertaking significant government functions. Further, under Texas law, the intention of present or immediate future use of all the included area for municipal purposes is not required. Thus, the fact that a portion of land in the city’s boundaries is vacant does not invalidate municipal incorporation. More importantly from IMLA’s perspective, the fact that the town had no commercially developed area prior to incorporation should not be enough to reverse the will of the people who voted to incorporate the town at the ballot box. Filed June 13, 2019 (Seventh Circuit) EFT Transit v. Indiana Alcohol & Tobacco Commission No. 19-1292 Pro Bono Author: Douglas Church Indiana maintains a three-tier distribution system for alcoholic beverages consisting of manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. Ind. Code §§ 7.1-3 et seq. (Prohibited Interest Statutes). Permits are both issued and required in order to participate in any of the three tiers. The wholesaler tier, which is at issue in this case, provides that a wholesaler cannot hold an interest in both a beer and liquor permit and vice versa. EFT is a trucking company licensed by the Commission to transport beer, wine, and liquor. Monarch is a beer and wine wholesaler, for which EFT provides delivery services. EFT and Monarch share the same CEO, shareholders, board of directors and employees. In 2009, EFT reached a tentative agreement to warehouse and ship alcoholic beverages for Indiana Wholesale, a licensed liquor wholesaler. The Commission rejected the application, concluding that EFT and Monarch “operate as one entity” and if the agreement was allowed, Monarch would have an interest in Indiana Wholesale, which is prohibited under the three-tiered distribution system laws. EFT sued, arguing that the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act (FAAAA) preempted the Indiana Prohibited Interest Statutes. The FAAAA preempts state laws “having the force and effect of law related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier . . . with respect to the transportation of property.” See 49 U.S.C. § 14501(c)(1). EFT argues that enforcing the Prohibited Interest Statutes against it falls within the scope of FAAAA preemption by limiting EFT’s motor carrier services. The Commission, on the other hand, argues that Indiana’s Prohibited Interest Statutes are protected from preemption by virtue of the Twenty-first Amendment. The district court held that the Prohibited Interest Statutes are central to the three-tier system in Indiana, and effect core Twenty-first Amendment interests, and the court reasoned that the FAAAA therefore did not preempt the statutes. Because the challenge to the law was based on preemption, not the Commerce Clause, the court noted that there is a strong presumption of validity for state regulations under the Twenty-first Amendment. Filed May 15, 2019 (Seventh Circuit) O’Brien v. Village of Lincolnshire & Illinois Municipal League No. 19-1349 Pro Bono Author: Brian Connolly The Village of Lincolnshire (the “Village’) is a member of the Illinois Municipal League (IML), which is a statutorily authorized nonprofit / nonpolitical association of Illinois cities, villages, and towns. The Village pays annual dues to IML as a part of its membership. Plaintiffs are taxpayers who live in the Village as well as local unions who have at least one employee who live in the Village. They claim that IML has engaged in lobbying by suggesting Illinois units of government should support the Governor’s “Turnaround Agenda” by “adopting local ordinances that would legalize local ‘right-to-work’ zones.” The Village adopted a right-to-work zone. The taxpayer plaintiffs object to the use of their taxes to pay for IML’s membership dues, which they claim due to IML’s political activity, runs “directly against their economic and political beliefs.” The plaintiffs analogize their arguments to Janus v. AFSCME (2018). In Janus, the Supreme Court held that “agency fees”, which required non-union members to pay their “fair share” of union dues violated nonmembers’ free speech rights under the compelled subsidy doctrine by compelling them to subsidize private speech with which they disagreed. Here, the plaintiffs argue that similarly, the Village is requiring them to subsidize the private speech of IML, with which they disagree. The district court held that the Village and IML engage in government speech and therefore the compelled-subsidy doctrine does not apply, and the plaintiffs First Amendment claims fail as a matter of law. The court noted that the Supreme Court has held that a citizen has “no First Amendment right not to fund government speech.” The court rejected the plaintiffs’ argument that IML was a private entity engaging in private speech because the association’s speech was “effectively controlled by the government.” On this point, the court explained that IML is a “formal vehicle through which elected officials act together on behalf of their government entities” and its committees are “comprised exclusively of municipal members.” The issue in this case is whether the taxpayers may claim that the Village’s membership dues in IML constitute a compelled subsidy or whether IML is engaged in government speech. Filed May 13, 2019 (Sixth Circuit, Petition for Rehearing En Banc) Taylor v. City of Saginaw No. 17-2126 Pro Bono Author: Philip Hartman & Yazan Ashrawi Status: The petition for rehearing was denied. The City of Saginaw uses a common parking enforcement practice known as “chalking” to mark the tires of parked vehicles to track how long they have been parked and ultimately issue a civil citation if the vehicle is parked longer than the time allotted. Alison Taylor, who accumulated 15 parking tickets in a 3-year period, sued the City, claiming that the act of chalking her tires violated Fourth Amendment. The City argued that the chalking was not a search within the Fourth Amendment or in the alternative, that if it was, it was reasonable under the community caretaking exception to the warrant requirement. The Sixth Circuit rejected the City’s arguments, first concluding that under Untied States v. Jones, the act of chalking the tires was a common-law trespass of a constitutionally protected area for the purpose of gathering information and was therefore a search under the Fourth Amendment. The Sixth Circuit then rejected the community-caretaking argument, concluding that the search does not relate to public safety and that “[b]ecause the purpose of chalking is to raise revenue, and not to mitigate public hazard, the City was not acting in its ‘role as [a] community caretak[r.]” In a footnote, the court also rejected the City’s arguments that chalking is so widespread and long-standing, that society may have granted it an implied license. Finally, the Sixth Circuit noted that the City had not pressed its argument that the search fell within the administrative search exception on appeal and the court therefore did not address this argument. The issue in this case is whether chalking a parked car’s tires for the purpose of gathering information for parking enforcement violates the Fourth Amendment. Filed January __, 2019 (Court of Appeals of the State of Washington) Seattle v. Long No. 78230-4-I Pro Bono Author: Matthew Segal This case involves a tow and impound of a vehicle being used as a residence by a homeless individual, Mr. Long. The police received a complaint that someone associated with Stephen Long’s pick-up truck threatened someone with a knife. No charges were filed related to this incident, however, the officers informed Mr. Long that his car was parked on City property and that it was illegal to park on City property for more than 72 hours. Parking enforcement put a sticker on the vehicle, providing notice that Mr. Long had 72 hours to move his vehicle. Parking enforcement actually gave Mr. Long an extra 4 days to move his car as he had indicated he needed a part for it. When it still wasn’t moved, it was towed. Mr. Long contested the impound. At the contested hearing, Mr. Long did not dispute his vehicle was illegally parked, but instead indicated that he was living in his vehicle and that he was indigent. Rather than require Mr. Long to pay the full amount of costs associated with an impound like everyone else normally does, the magistrate judge: (1) waived the parking ticket; (2) reduced the actual costs of impound; and, (3) provided Long the opportunity to agree to a Payment Plan, whereby he would pay back the City $50 a month, for twelve months without interest. If Mr. Long failed to make payments under the Payment Plan, his vehicle would not be subject to forfeiture, attachment or execution, but instead, he would be potentially subject to administrative penalties and collection efforts. On appeal from the magistrate judge’s decision, Mr. Long argued that the City violated the Fourteenth Amendment’s substantive due process clause by acting with deliberate indifference to his personal and physical safety when it impounded his truck as he did not have shelter once it was towed. He also argued the impoundment was a penalty and amounted to an excessive fine under the Eighth Amendment due to the fact that he was homeless / indigent. Finally, he argued that under the State’s Homestead Act, the impoundment was unlawful. The Homestead Act of the Washington Constitution states that “[t]he legislature shall protect by law from forced sale a certain portion of the homestead and other property of all heads of families.” The Act was amended to include personal property noting that some citizens reside on their boats or in their cars. On appeal, the Superior Court reversed, in part, concluding that: (1) Long’s substantive due process “defense” was groundless; (2) requiring Long to pay any amount associated with impound violated the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition against excessive fines; and, (3) that the Payment Plan violated the Homestead Act. The issues on appeal are: (1) whether requiring Long to pay the actual costs associated with his impound violate the Eighth Amendment; and (2) whether the payment plan violated the Homestead Act. Filed November 15, 2018 (Second Circuit / Ninth Circuit) City of New York v. BP et al. / City of Oakland & San Francisco v. BP et al. / County of San Mateo et. al v. Chevron et al. No. Pro Bono Author: Michael Burger CLICK HERE to view the Amicus Brief. Cities and counties across the United States have brought lawsuits against major oil and gas companies claiming they knew for decades their products caused climate change but denied or downplayed the threat while promoting their products. The complaints claim that the defendants engaged in an overt public relations campaign intended to cast doubt on climate science. These lawsuits have been brought under state common law (including public and private nuisance, trespass, negligence, etc.). The suits seek damages or compensation for current and future costs associated with climate change (such as health related deaths, flooding due to sea-level rise, etc.). Presently, three batches of cases are on appeal to the U.S. Courts of Appeal – two to the 9th Circuit (Oakland / San Francisco and San Mateo), and one to the 2nd Circuit (NYC). Two of the three lower courts (NYC, Oakland / San Francisco) to hear these cases have ruled that cities and counties may not bring state common law claims, and dismissed the lawsuits. One court (San Mateo) has ruled cities and counties may bring state common law claims and ordered the cases before it remanded to state court. By way of background, in American Electric Power v. Connecticut (2011) the Supreme Court held a federal common law public nuisance lawsuit seeking an injunction against power companies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs), brought by cities and states, was displaced by the Clean Air Act, which delegates authority to regulate GHGs to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In Native Village of Kivalina v. Exxon Mobile (2012), the Ninth Circuit held that a federal common law public nuisance lawsuit seeking damages for climate change brought by a Native village in Alaska was also displaced by the Clean Air Act. (Displacement of federal common law by a federal statute is, in essence, the same as preemption of state common law by a federal statute.) The courts deciding the New York City and Oakland / San Francisco cases relied on the above two cases to conclude that, first, a federal common law public nuisance claim for climate change does exist and, second, that as a result of the existence of a federal nuisance claim cities and counties cannot bring state common law claims for damages for climate change. The courts concluded that any federal common law nuisance claim was displaced by the Clean Air Act under American Electric Power regardless of the actual theory of liability in these cases. In contrast, the court in San Mateo concluded that the existence of a federal common law claim does not eliminate the state common law claim, and that the Clean Air Act’s delegation of regulatory authority to EPA does not preempt state law claims. “To the contrary, the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act both contain savings clauses that preserve state causes of action and suggest that Congress did not intend the federal causes of action under those statutes “to be exclusive.” The issue in these cases is whether cities and counties may bring state common law claims seeking damages or compensation for climate change impacts. Filed November 15, 2018 (Seventh Circuit) Filed January 2, 2018 (Seventh Circuit) Filed August 31, 2017 (N.D.Ill) City of Chicago v. Sessions No. 1:17-cv-5720 Pro Bono Author: Laura Tice & Katherine O’Brien & Luke Edwards Held: The Seventh Circuit upheld the preliminary injunction against the Department of Justice’s imposition of the unlawful grant conditions. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (“Byrne JAG”) provides financial support for local government law enforcement agencies around the country. Through a press release, the Department of Justice announced that it would be imposing new conditions on Byrne JAG grantees, including requiring grantees to: (1) certify compliance with 8 U.S.C. §1373; (2) allow federal officials the access to local government facilities to interrogate arrestees (“access” condition); and (3) provide at least 48 hours’ notice to federal officials prior to an arrestee’s release if immigration authorities have issued a detainer request for that individual (“notice” condition). Chicago brought suit seeking a preliminary injunction against the Attorney General from imposing new conditions to the Byrne JAG. Chicago alleges that the conditions are inconsistent with the limitations imposed by the Constitution’s Spending Clause, the Fourth Amendment and basic separation of powers principles. The district court issued a preliminary injunction against the DOJ from enforcing the “notice” and “access” conditions, but denied Chicago’s request for an injunction on the 1373 compliance certification. The Seventh Circuit affirmed the district court’s decision and the panel affirmed the nationwide aspect of the injunction. Thereafter, the en banc court stayed the applicability of the nationwide injunction (but kept it in place for Chicago) so that it could hear en banc, the issue of the applicability of nationwide injunctions. However, in the meantime, the district court issued a permanent injunction as to the notice and access conditions and also ruled that intervening Supreme Court authority had rendered 8 U.S.C. 1373 unconstitutional. Because the Seventh Circuit was hearing the issue of the scope of the nationwide injunction on the appeal of the preliminary injunction, not the permanent injunction, it dismissed the appeal as moot. The DOJ then repealed the district court’s permanent injunction to the Seventh Circuit. Filed November 19, 2018 (First Circuit) Gray v. Thomas A. Cummings, Town of Athol No. 18-1303 Pro Bono Author: Amanda Kellar (IMLA) CLICK HERE to view the Amicus Brief. In 2013, Gray—who suffered from bipolar disorder and manic depression—suffered a manic episode and called the Athol Police Department. The department sent three officers to respond and Gray was brought to Athol Memorial Hospital (hospital). Later that morning, the hospital called the police department seeking the return of Gray who had left the hospital. The hospital informed the police that Gray was a “Section 12 patient,” meaning she was civilly committed for either being a danger to herself or others. Officer Cummings was dispatched to look for Gray. Officer Cummings located Gray, radioed dispatch, and proceeded to pull over and step out of the cruiser. Gray began yelling obscenities at Cummings, and Cummings told Gray she must return to the hospital. When Gray refused, Cummings called for backup then followed Gray for twenty seconds while Gray shouted obscenities at him. Gray stopped roughly five feet away from Officer Cummings, with her fists, teeth, and body clenched. Gray shouted at Cummings and began walking toward him. As Gray approached, Cummings grabbed her shirt and took Gray to the ground, and Gray tucked her arms under her chest. Cummings ordered Gray to stop resisting and to place her hands behind her back, otherwise she would be tased. Gray refused and replied with obscenities, to which Cummings pulled out his Taser, placed it in stun mode, and tased her for about four to six seconds. Cummings then holstered his Taser and secured Gray in handcuffs. Gray was then taken back to the Hospital in an ambulance. Gray filed suit alleging excessive use of force and failure to train under 42 U.S.C. § 1983, violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and various state law claims. The district court concluded that Officer Cummings did not violate Gray’s Fourth Amendment rights under Graham. The court found that even if the Fourth Amendment had been violated, the officer was entitled to qualified immunity as the law was not clearly established that a single application of a taser constituted excessive force against a person who has assaulted a police officer and actively resisted lawful arrest. Regarding the ADA claim, the court noted that the First Circuit has not ruled on whether an officer may be liable under the ADA for failing to accommodate a person with disabilities in the process of an arrest or in the officer’s use of force, but that nevertheless, even if such a claim could be brought, the plaintiff could not succeed on this theory of liability. The issues in this case are: 1. Whether an officer is entitled to qualified immunity after tasing a physically subdued individual with a mental disability who continues to resist the officer’s directives? 2. Whether law enforcement is required to provide reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in detaining an individual with a mental illness when effectuating an arrest? Filed November 8, 2018 (Second Circuit) Deferio v. Syracuse No. 18-514 Pro Bono Author: Shannon O’Connor Plaintiff, James Deferio, is a Christian evangelist who regularly attempts to share his religious beliefs in public during large events. Since 2004, he has attended the annual Central New York Pride Parade (CNY), a free public, family-friendly event held in Syracuse where he routinely proselytizes from the public sidewalk. CNY receives a permit every year to host this event. While the parade route varies, it generally culminates in a post-parade festival held inside a publicly-owned park, Inner Harbor Park. Prior to the 2014 event, CNY applied for and received a “Parade/Public Assembly Permit” in which it specified that it would not have speakers located on the sidewalks. Sergeant Locastro, assigned to supervise the police officers working at the event, reviewed the permit prior to the event and when the parade concluded, was called to the entrance of the park where Deferio was standing with an amplification device and a sign calling for “homosexuals” to “repent.” Understanding the sidewalk on the north side of Kilpatrick to be reserved for CNY according to the city-issued permit, Locastro advised plaintiff that he was in violation of the permit the parade had requested and told him to move to the south side of the street. In his deposition Locastro cited both plaintiff’s violation of the permit as well as the fact that several event attendees were “actively trying to get at him” as a part of his decision-making process when directing the plaintiff to stand on the other side of the street. When asked what distinguished the plaintiff, Locastro added that the plaintiff was the only individual holding an anti-gay sign and upsetting people. Under threat of arrest, the plaintiff moved to the other side of the street and was not arrested. In 2014, the City granted the permit but didn’t allow for the sound system or speakers because they didn’t ask for one. In 2015 CNY again applied for a permit, adding that it wanted exclusive use of sound amplification along the parade route, including on Kirkpatrick Street. It specified that the location of assembly included 40 feet to either side of the park’s driveway entrance on the north side of Kirkpatrick (where plaintiff was located the previous year until he was asked to move). This year, plaintiff returned to his spot next to the park entrance where he held the following sign: “Thousands of ex-homosexuals have experienced the life-changing love of Jesus Christ.” In addition to the sign, he also engaged Pride attendees. In 2015 they granted CNY’s permit which granted exclusive control to entry way and to 40-foot buffer zone and exclusive use of sound amplification / devices on festival grounds. Captain Sweeny was assigned to supervise the police officers at the event this year and at the conclusion of the parade, arrived at the park driveway where plaintiff was located with his sign and amplification device. Sweeney advised that the Plaintiff could be arrested if he stayed at his current location because CNY had exclusive use of the street and plaintiff did not have a permit for his megaphone. Plaintiff offered to stop using his megaphone, but Sweeny continued to advise him to cross the street, explaining that Syracuse had granted CNY a 40-foot buffer zone around the park entrance. Plaintiff moved to and remained on the other side of the street for two more hours after their exchange and was not arrested. Plaintiff commenced this action under Section 1983 against the City and two officers, Capt. Sweeny, and Sgt. Locastro, alleging violations of his rights under the First and Fourteenth Amendments. As to the city, the plaintiff argued that it was liable under Monell based on the final policymaker’s decision to issue the permits in 2014 and 2015 in a way that plaintiff claims gave CNY Pride “proprietary control of public sidewalks.” The court granted Deferio a preliminary injunction enjoining the city from restricting his access to “the entrance of the Pride festival based on a buffer zone.” The district court issued a memorandum-decision and awarded nominal damages to the plaintiff against Capt. Sweeny and Sgt. Locastro in their individual capacities only as to Deferio’s First Amendment claim, but denied that Capt. Sweeny and Sgt. Locastro violated plaintiff’s due process rights. The court rejected the plaintiff’s request for permanent injunctive relief and ruled in favor of the City on the plaintiff’s Monell claim. The plaintiff appealed from every part of the decision that was adverse to him, however, the City elected not to appeal the portions of the decision adverse to it. It is the city’s position that the individual police officers did not violate plaintiff’s due process right, the dismissal of any Monell causes of action was appropriate, and that the denial of injunctive and declaratory relief was appropriate. The issue is whether dismissal of the plaintiff’s Monell claim was proper. In another IMLA victory, the Second Circuit sided with the City of Syracuse that the plaintiff failed to establish a Monell claim against the City based on permits that it issued for a gay pride festival. In the case, Deferio v. City of Syracuse, the plaintiff, a sidewalk preacher, claimed the City could be liable under Monell because, according to the plaintiff, the City had given “proprietary control” to a private entity over public sidewalk. The court rejected this argument, explaining that to the extent that the training bulletin on City permits may allow some permits to cover sidewalks, “that alone does not establish an unconstitutional policy because a municipality is not per se barred from restricting protected speech on sidewalks or other public fora.” The court went on to explain that the permit did not give the festival “proprietary control” over public sidewalks, instead it allowed for the exclusive use of sound amplification in certain areas for the festival and that did not violate the plaintiff’s First Amendment rights. To read the decision, click here. Congratulations to the City of Syracuse on the victory and thank you to our excellent amicus brief author Shannon O’Connor at Goldberg Segalla. Filed October 10, 2018 (Third Circuit) Filed October 19, 2017 (E.d.Pa) City of Philadelphia v. Sessions No. 2:17-cv-03894 Pro Bono Author E.d.Pa: Laura Trice / Katherine O’Brien Pro Bono Author Third Circuit: Justin Houppert Philadelphia brought suit against the Attorney General based on the immigration conditions imposed by the Department of Justice in the Byrne JAG formula grant, arguing the conditions are ultra vires, unlawful under the Administrative Procedure Act, and violate the Separation of Powers and the Tenth Amendment. Philadelphia also sought a determination that it complies with §1373. The federal district court ruled in favor of the City, finding that it complies with §1373. The Department of Justice appealed to the Third Circuit. Filed September 17, 2018 (Tenth Circuit) Aptive Environmental v. Town of Castle Rock No. 18-1166 Pro Bono Author: Susan Trevarthen & Laura Wendell The town of Castle Rock adopted an ordinance imposing a 7:00 pm curfew on commercial solicitation in response to anecdotal concerns among residents about door-to-door solicitation and its effects on privacy and safety. The ordinance did not impact canvassers. Castle Rock is a suburban community of around 58,000 residents predominated by single-family residential neighborhoods and their council concluded that door-to-door solicitation infringed upon residents’ privacy, especially families who might be sitting down to eat dinner, putting children to bed, or relaxing after a long day. Chapter 5.04 (the Code) specifically prohibited uninvited door-to-door solicitation between 7:00 pm and 9:00 am, but otherwise allowed solicitors to engage in sales on the properties of residents who have not requested to be placed on the town’s “no knock” list or placed a “no solicitors” sign on their property. Violations were punishable by a $1,000 fine but subject to an affirmative defense if the resident or occupant expressly invited the registered solicitor to enter their property. Aptive Environmental, LLC (Aptive) is a pest control service whose primary means of generating sales is by through door-to-door solicitation. Aptive challenged the constitutionality of the 7:00 pm curfew as a violation of commercial speech because it limited contact with residents during peak sales hours, which generally occur after 7:00 pm when residents are home from work. The district court enjoined the entire curfew provision, finding there to be no legitimate government interest materially advanced by the curfew under the second prong of the Central Hudson three-prong commercial speech test. 447 U.S. 557 (1980). In the court’s view, since the ordinance only impacted commercial solicitors and did not affect canvassers, establishing a curfew was an ineffective means of achieving the town’s goal of promoting privacy and public safety. The court also expressed some doubt as to whether there was even an issue with privacy and public safety to begin with, given the town’s lack of wide-based studies, analytical data, and empirical evidence of police complaints and crime reduction. The court viewed the town’s lack of empirical evidence and heavy reliance on anecdotal evidence as an indication that the town was not justified in enacting the ordinance. Further, the court also noted that the ordinance’s effect of providing comfort and peace of mind to residents, as articulated by the testimony of the town’s police chief, was not enough to demonstrate that it was effective against “real harm” in order to outweigh Aptive’s commercial speech interests. Filed August 30, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Building Industry Association v. City of Oakland No. 18-15368 Pro Bono Author: Margaret Sohagi & Phillip Seymour In June 2017, the City enacted a public art ordinance (Ordinance), which requires certain multifamily residential and commercial development projects to devote 0.5 to 1.0% of project building costs to either install publicly accessible art onsite or in a nearby right-of-way, or make an in-lieu payment to the City’s public-art fund. The Ordinance allows some developers to apply for a waiver or reduction under certain circumstances. In addition, the Ordinance contains an appeal procedure. BIA filed suit, asserting a facial challenge to the validity of the Ordinance on two grounds. First, BIA alleged that the Ordinance is an unlawful exaction that violates the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment under the “exactions doctrine” articulated in Nollan v. California Coastal Commission, 483 U.S. 825 (1987), Dolan v. City of Tigard, 512 U.S. 374 (1994), and Koontz v. St. John’s River Water Management District, 570 U.S. 595 (2013). Second, CBIA alleged the ordinance compels speech in violation of the First Amendment. The City filed a motion to dismiss, which the district court granted. In dismissing BIA’s takings claim, the court declined to apply the Nollan/Dolan/Koontz exactions doctrine, explaining that the doctrine does not apply in a facial challenge to a generally applicable ordinance; rather, the doctrine applies only to discretionary decisions regarding individual properties. The court explained that generally applicable ordinances such as the Ordinance at issue are assessed under the regulatory takings framework set forth in Penn Central Transportation Co. v. City of New York, 438 U.S. 104, 124 (1978), and held that the Ordinance does not cause a large enough loss of property value on its face to constitute a taking under Penn Central. In dismissing BIA’s First Amendment claim, the court applied rational basis review (finding the Ordinance does not require specific speech or significantly deter speech, and contains an in-lieu fee alternative) and held that the City satisfied its burden of establishing that the Ordinance is reasonably related to a legitimate governmental purpose. BIA appealed. Filed August 28, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Nehad v. Zimmerman No. 18-55035 Pro Bono Author: Lee Roistacher Just after midnight, a store clerk called 911 to report that a man had threatened him with a knife. A police officer arrived on the scene by himself and turned his vehicle into an alley. In the alley, he saw a man who matched the description of the suspect walking toward his vehicle. He appeared to have a knife in his hand and when the officer exited his vehicle he ordered the suspect to “Drop it” and to “Stop.” The suspect continued to walk toward the officer with what appeared to be a knife in his hand. After he refused to adhere to the officer’s commands and continued advancing on the officer, the officer shot him when he was about 17 feet away. No knife was found, but the suspect was instead holding a pen in his hand. The entire incident unfolded in thirty-three seconds. Three witnesses at the scene gave testimony including that they heard the officer’s commands and one witness testified that he saw the suspect “fiddling with something in his midsection” and while he wasn’t sure what it was (he thought it was a gun) he indicated it was “shiny and silver.” A video also captured the entire incident. The officer testified that he believed the suspect was holding a knife and that he felt his life was in danger. On a motion for summary judgment, the district court concluded that the officer did not violate the Fourth Amendment and that in the alternative, he would have been entitled to qualified immunity as the law was not clearly established at the time of the shooting that his actions would have been unlawful. In terms of the Fourth Amendment violation, the district court focused on the Graham factors weighing in the officer’s favor. Specifically, that a report of a serious crime had been made, the officer felt his life was in danger, and that the events unfolded incredibly rapidly all weighed in favor of the finding that the officer’s actions were objectively reasonable under the Fourth Amendment. The court specifically rejected the plaintiff’s argument that the officer’s belief that his life was in danger was not reasonable because it turned out to be a pen in his hand, not a knife. The district court dismissed the Monell claim based on the finding that there was no constitutional violation. The issues in the case are whether the officer’s conduct violated the Fourth Amendment and if so, whether he was nonetheless entitled to qualified immunity. Filed August 27, 2018 (D.C. Circuit) Mozilla Corp. v. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) No. 18-1051(L) Pro Bono Author: Elina Drunker In 2014, the FCC promulgated the Open Internet Order creating net neutrality rules including the bright line and transparency rules against discriminatory practices by Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and a general conduct standard for ISPs to abide by. The Open Internet Order was upheld on appeal to the D.C. Circuit in U.S. Telecom Ass’n v. FCC and is pending appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. In May 2017, shortly after the D.C. Circuit upheld the 2014 Open Internet Order, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) to repeal the Open Internet Order and create a new set of net neutrality rules. These changes were enacted after the notice and comment period in an Order entitled Restoring Internet Freedom. The Restoring Internet Freedom Order removed the bright line, transparency, and general conduct requirement rules enacted in 2014 and reclassified Internet services from a Title II Telecommunication subject to common carrier treatment to a Title I information service. The switch to Title I eliminates the ability to use utility regulation for Internet services, and only allows for a “light-touch” approach to regulation. After the promulgation of the Restoring Internet Freedom Order, fifteen suits were filed against the FCC, challenging the repeal of the old net neutrality rules. These cases were consolidated in the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Petitioners include state and local governments, non-profit organizations, and businesses. Petitioners assert claims under the U.S. Constitution, the Administrative Procedures Act (APA) and the Communications Act of 1934 as amended. Specifically, petitioners argue that the Restoring Internet Freedom Order is arbitrary and capricious because the FCC disregarded the risk that providers would engage in abusive practices, failed to consider public safety, failed to consider reliance interests, and failed to consider the effect on Universal Service and pole attachments. Petitioners also argue that the FCC’s preemption of other regulation is invalid because they lack statutory authority, and conflict preemption is premature and erroneous because it must be raised on a case-by-case basis and there is no valid basis for it. Filed August 20, 2018 (Supreme Court of Ohio) Cleveland v. Ohio No. 2018-0097 Pro Bono Author: Joseph Scott In 2003, the City of Cleveland enacted an employment law, which provides that when Cleveland enters construction contracts of at least $100,000, the contracts provide that City residents perform at least twenty percent of total in-state construction worker hours. In addition, contractors and their subcontractors entering into contracts with Cleveland must “use significant effort to ensure that no less than four percent” of such resident worker hours are performed by low-income persons. In 2016, the Ohio General Assembly sought to preempt the City’s ordinance, enacting a provision: “to prohibit a public authority from requiring a contractor to employ a certain percentage of individuals from the geographic area of the public authority for construction or professional design of a public improvement.” The issue in this case is whether the State’s attempt at preempting Cleveland’s ordinance is a proper exercise of authority under of the Ohio Constitution. Filed July 26, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Ryan v. Fabela No. 18-15232 Pro Bono Author: Alison Turner Joseph Ryan worked as Senior Assistant Counsel for SCVTA under the supervision of General Counsel, Robert Fabela. Ryan provided legal services to SCVTA’s Administrative Services Department (Department), including Labor Relations Manager David Terrazas. Ryan did not get along with Terrazas and other members of the Department. The relationship problems were well documented over several years, and Fabela’s performance evaluations of Ryan in 2013 and 2014 identified the problem. In June 2014, Terrazas was running for reelection to the Santa Cruz City Council. Sometime that month, Ryan created a Facebook page (Page) titled “Anyone but Terrazas for city council.” The Page was only up for around a day before Ryan deleted it. During the Page’s existence, Ryan posted on it four times, making statements critical of Terrazas. In February 2015, Fabela learned of the website when SCVTA received a letter from an attorney hired by Terrazas claiming Terrazas had been retaliated against for opposing improper behavior at SCVTA. Thereafter, Fabela began discussing termination of Ryan’s employment with his assistant general counsel. On June 5, 2014, Fabela signed a settlement agreement on SCVTA’s behalf under which Terrazas received approximately $25,000. The same day, Fabela informed Ryan that his employment would be terminated. Ryan filed suit against SCVTA and Fabela, asserting various claims that were all later dismissed except for one: Ryan’s claim against Fabela in his individual capacity for First Amendment retaliation in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. Fabela filed a motion for summary judgment, arguing that Ryan’s First Amendment rights were not violated and, even if they were, Fabela is entitled to qualified immunity because Ryan’s rights were not clearly established such that it was unreasonable for Fabela to believe that it was lawful to terminate him. The district court denied the motion, holding that (1) a genuine dispute of material fact exists as to whether Ryan’s First Amendment rights were violated, and (2) Ryan’s rights were clearly established. The court reasoned that, reading the facts in the light most favorable to Ryan, a jury could find: (1) that Ryan’s posts on the Page constituted a matter of public concern, (2) that Ryan was acting in his capacity as a private citizen when he made the posts, and (3) that the posts were a substantial or motivating factor in his termination. The court further concluded that Ryan’s right to comment on a public election in his capacity as a private citizen was clearly established. The issue is whether the law was clearly established that firing an attorney who created a Facebook page criticizing his own client after years of a contentious relationship with that client violated the First Amendment. Filed July 5, 2018 (Ninth Circuit petition for rehearing) Chamber of Commerce v. Seattle No. 17-35640 Pro Bono Author: Christine Van Aken & Rachel Horn In December 2015, the Seattle City Council enacted into law Ordinance 124968, an Ordinance Relating to Taxicab, Transportation Network Company, and For-Hire Vehicle Drivers (Ordinance). The Ordinance was the first municipal ordinance of its kind in the United States, and authorizes a collective-bargaining process between “driver coordinators”—like Uber / Lyft—and independent contractors who work as for-hire drivers. The Ordinance permits independent-contractor drivers, represented by an entity denominated an “exclusive driver representative,” and driver coordinators to agree on the “nature and amount of payments to be made by, or withheld from, the driver coordinator to or by the drivers.” Seattle, Wash., Municipal Code § 6.310.735(H)(1). The Ordinance provides that the parties will negotiate in good faith regarding vehicle equipment standards; safe driving practices; the manner in which the driver coordinator will conduct criminal background checks of all prospective drivers; the nature and amount of payments to be made by, or withheld from, the driver coordinator to or by the drivers; minimum hours of work, conditions of work, and applicable rules. Id. § 6.310.735(H)(1). The City ultimately reviews the agreements and determines if they are in compliance with the Ordinance. The Chamber of Commerce brought suit, challenging the Ordinance under the Sherman Act and NLRA. The district court dismissed the case, holding that the state-action immunity doctrine exempts the Ordinance from preemption by the Sherman Act, and that the NLRA does not preempt the Ordinance. The Ninth Circuit reversed the district court’s dismissal of the Chamber’s federal antitrust claims, but affirmed the district court’s dismissal of the Chamber’s NLRA preemption claims. The Ninth Circuit noted that the City acknowledged on appeal that collective negotiations like these would constitute per se antitrust violations absent Parker immunity. The City argued that its actions were expressly authorized under Washington Law and that Parker immunity applied. The Ninth Circuit ruled that the Ordinance failed “the first prong of Midcal because the State of Washington had not ‘clearly articulated and affirmatively expressed’ a state policy authorizing private parties to price-fix the fees for-hire drivers pay to companies like Uber or Lyft in exchange for ride-referral services.” The Ninth Circuit came to this conclusion by taking an extremely narrow reading of the “clear articulation” requirement given the fact that Washington enacted a statute with the intended purpose to “permit political subdivisions of the state to regulate for hire transportation services without liability under federal antitrust laws.” Wash. Rev. Code § 46.72.001. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that “[t]he plain language of the statute centers on the provision of ‘privately operated for hire transportation services,’ Wash. Rev. Code § 46.72.001, not the contractual payment arrangements between for-hire drivers and driver coordinators for use of the latter’s smartphone apps or ridereferral services.” The Ninth Circuit also concluded that the Ordinance does not meet the active-supervision requirement for Parker immunity. The court reasoned that to meet the requirement, the supervision must come from the State itself, not from the municipality and here, the State plays no role in supervising or enforcing the City’s Ordinance. The issue in this case is whether Parker immunity applies to Seattle’s Ordinance so as to prevent a Sherman Act violation? Filed July 3, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Rodriguez v. City of San Jose No. 17-17144 Pro Bono Author: Peter Pierce In 2013, Edward Rodriguez suffered a mental episode at his home. His wife, Plaintiff Lori Rodriguez, called the police, and the San Jose Police responded. An officer detained Edward under California Welfare and Institutions Code (“W&I”) §5150, which provides that when probable cause exists that someone is a danger to him/herself or others as a result of a mental disorder, a police officer may take that person into custody for 72 hours for treatment / evaluation. California W&I § 8102 provides: “Whenever a person, who has been detained or apprehended for examination of his or her mental condition or who is a person described in Section 8100 or 8103, is found to own, have in his or her possession or under his or her control, any firearm whatsoever, or any other deadly weapon, the firearm or other deadly weapon shall be confiscated by any law enforcement agency or peace officer, who shall retain custody of the firearm or other deadly weapon.” (emphasis added). A San Jose police officer told Lori that he was required to confiscate guns in the house. He asked Lori to provide the combination to the gun safe in the house, and she complied. The officer confiscated eleven guns registered to Edward and one gun registered to Lori. Edward was admitted for a 72-hour hold and as a result is prohibited from owning or possessing firearms under Cal. W&I Code section 8103 for 5 years. Lori requested a return of the firearms to her so that she could store them in the home she shares with Edward. The City petitioned the state court for a hearing under W&I Code §8102 to determine whether the guns should be returned to Edward. While that case was pending, Lori transmuted the guns into her separate property and registered them in her name. Lori then intervened in the City’s suit regarding the return of the guns and the parties agreed she had standing. Even though it was Lori petitioning the court for the return of the guns, the state court decided that the guns could not be returned because doing so would likely result in endangering Edward or others as Lori and Edward were married and lived together. (Edward had a history of domestic violence, mental illness, weighed 400 lbs. and had exhibited violent tendencies in front of the police and paramedics). The state court also rejected her Second Amendment claims, noting nothing in its order precludes her from keeping firearms in her home for protection (she just wasn’t entitled to these particular guns). Thereafter, Lori filed suit in federal district court, claiming violations of the Second, Fourth, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments, and California Penal Code §33800 et seq. On the parties cross-motions for summary judgment, district court granted the City Defendants’ motion and denied Plaintiffs’ motion. The issues before the Ninth Circuit are: 1. Whether the Second Amendment protects Lori Rodriguez’s right to possess specific firearms. 2. Whether the City Defendants’ confiscation of guns and decision not to return them to Lori is an unreasonable seizure under the Fourth Amendment. 3. Whether the City Defendants’ confiscation and retention of the guns is a taking of property without just compensation under the Fifth Amendment. 4. Whether the City Defendants violated Lori’s Fourteenth Amendment right to procedural due process by refusing to return the guns after the decision of the California Sixth District Court of Appeal, where the court of appeal stated that “the procedure provided by section 33850 et seq. for return of firearms in the possession of law enforcement remains available to Lori.” (Rodriguez, 2015 WL 1541988 at *8) Filed June 28, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) La Park La Brea LLC v. Airbnb No. 18-55113 Pro Bono Author: Christi Hogin Aimco owns and operates apartment buildings in Los Angeles County. Every Aimco tenant’s lease includes an anti-subleasing clause, which provides that the tenant shall not sublet the apartment for any length of time, including renting out the apartment using a short-term rental service such as Airbnb.com. Aimco alleges that Airbnb has brokered hundreds of subleases at Aimco’s properties, causing significant problems for full-time residents (and therefore for Aimco), including noise and safety concerns. Airbnb claims that it is merely an “online platform” that “does not own, operate, manage or control accommodations,” and that it therefore would not take down the ads placed by Aimco’s tenants. Aimco filed suit alleging various tort causes of action, including intentional interference with the leases between Aimco and its tenants. Airbnb filed a motion to dismiss, asserting immunity under section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (CDA), 47 U.S.C. § 230. The CDA precludes liability that treats a website as the publisher or speaker of information users provide on the website.” As the district court in explained, “[t]his grant of immunity applies only if the interactive computer service provider is not also an ‘information content provider,’ which is defined as someone who is ‘responsible, in whole or in part, for the creation or development of’ the offending content.” Aimco argued that the immunity did not apply because (1) Airbnb is an “information content provider” that falls outside of the CDA’s grant of immunity; and (2) Aimco’s allegations were based on Airbnb’s own misconduct in contracting with and processing payments for Aimco’s tenants, not on Airbnb’s publication of listings by Airbnb hosts. The district court disagreed with Aimco and granted the motion to dismiss, finding the CDA precluded liability for Airbnb. The district court distinguished Airbnb v. City and County of San Francisco (2016) 217 F.Supp.3d 1066, which held, in part, that the CDA did not preempt the City and County of San Francisco’s ordinance criminalizing the collection of fees for providing booking services for unregistered short-term rentals, because the ordinance did not regulate publication, but rather Airbnb’s collection of a fee for booking services. Aimco appealed. The issue in this case is the breadth of immunity under the CDA and whether it should be afforded to information content providers like Airbnb. Filed June 20, 2018 (Tenth Circuit) Lech v. Jackson No. 18-1051 Pro Bono Author: Diane Criswell In this case, police were dispatched to a local Walmart to assist with a shoplifting investigation. What one would assume would be a benign situation, turned out to be extremely dangerous. While the officer was escorting the suspect to the store’s loss prevention office, the suspect fled the scene in a vehicle at a high speed. The officers found the vehicle abandoned, and a witness informed the officer that she saw the suspect with a semi-automatic pistol. While the officers were pursuing the suspect a burglar alarm went off at the plaintiffs’ residence. All occupants of the home were able to flee unharmed (including a 9 year old boy) and officers positioned their vehicles in the driveway to block an attempt by the suspect to drive out of the garage. As one officer was getting out of his car, a bullet was fired from inside the garage and struck the police car’s hood. This was considered a “high-risk, barricade suspect situation,” given that there was an armed suspect who was refusing to surrender. Officers tried numerous tactics to communicate with the suspect and to get him to leave the house. They spoke to him on his cell phone and via loud speaker, they had his family speak to him, they shut off the power and water, they tried shooting in gas munitions to get him to leave, they tried to send a robot into the house, but the suspect would not surrender. Many hours later, a tactical team was sent in to apprehend the suspect. When they attempted to reach the second floor of the house, the suspect fired at them several times and they were ordered to leave the home. After another 7 hours of being unsuccessful in communicating with the suspect and getting him to leave the home, the commanding officer authorized the use of a BearCat to open holes in the back of the home. The purpose of this was to allow the officers to see into the home and locate the suspect, to make the suspect feel more exposed, and to create gun ports for snipers to shoot into the home if needed. After the holes were created, the commanding officer sent another tactical team into to apprehend the suspect and this time they were successful, and nobody was injured. Because of the standoff, the plaintiffs’ home was rendered uninhabitable. The plaintiffs brought suit under Section 1983, claiming the police officers violated the Fifth Amendment by Taking their property without just compensation. The district court found in favor of the officers, concluding that courts have historically distinguished between eminent domain and police power and in this case, the police were clearly exercising their police power pursuant to an emergency situation for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. The issue before the Tenth Circuit is: Whether the U.S. District Court properly granted summary judgment in favor of the Defendants on the grounds that because the Defendants destroyed the Plaintiffs’ property pursuant to their police powers, no just compensation is due under the Takings Clauses of the U.S. Constitution and Colorado Constitution. Filed May 21, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Home Away v. Santa Monica No. 18-55367 Pro Bono Author: Christi Hogin For a long time, the City of Santa Monica prohibited short-term rentals in residential neighborhoods, both to preserve residential units for long-term residents, and to protect the character and aesthetics of those neighborhoods. In 2015, the City eased the prohibition, and allowed residents and property owners to rent portions of residential units so long as at least one permanent resident remained onsite throughout the stay, and the hosts complied with reasonable rules and regulations including licensing and payment of transient occupancy taxes. The Ordinance also placed restrictions on internet booking platforms, such as Home Away / Airbnb, prohibiting them from completing booking transactions for unlicensed short-term rentals within the City. Airbnb and Home Away sought a preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin the City from enforcing the ordinance. The rental platforms argued that the ordinance violated the California Coastal Act, the Communications Decency Act, and the First Amendment. The district court denied their motion, finding that Plaintiffs had not established a likelihood of success on the merits of any claim. On the federal statutory and First Amendment claims, the district court followed the decision in Airbnb, Inc. v. City & County of San Francisco, 217 F.Supp.3d 1066 (N.D. Cal. 2016), which is identical to this case with respect to all federal claims. The Court further affirmed that the City’s constitutional authority to regulate local land use is not preempted by the Coastal Act. On appeal, the companies argue the following: (1) the ordinance is preempted by the Communications Decency Act’s broad immunity to online marketplaces for third party listings; (2) the ordinance violates the First Amendment as it is a content-based regulation of commercial speech and strict scrutiny should apply; and (3) the California Coastal Act preempts the ordinance because the City did not seek the California Coastal Commission’s approval to enact its ordinance. The issues in this case are: 1) Does the ordinance violate the First Amendment; and (2) is the ordinance preempted by either federal or state law? Filed May 7, 2018 (Eleventh Circuit) Bank of America v. Miami No. Pro Bono Author: Justin Steil The City of Miami brought a claim under the Fair Housing Act (FHA) against Bank of America, alleging that it engaged in a decade-long pattern of discriminatory lending in the residential housing market that caused the City economic harm. The City claims that the bank targeted black and Latino customers in Miami for predatory loans that carried more risk, steeper fees, and higher costs than those offered to identically situated white customers, and created internal incentive structures that encouraged employees to provide these types of loans. The City alleged that by steering minorities toward these predatory loans, Bank of America caused minority-owned properties throughout Miami to fall into unnecessary or premature foreclosure, depriving the City of tax revenue as property values decreased and also simultaneously forcing the City to spend more on municipal services such as police, firefighters, trash and debris removal, etc., to combat the resulting blight. The City used statistical analyses in its complaint to allege that the Bank’s conduct violated the Fair Housing Act in two ways. First, the City alleged that the Bank intentionally discriminated against minority borrowers by targeting them for loans with burdensome terms. Second, the City claimed that the Bank’s conduct had a disparate impact on minority borrowers, resulting in a disproportionate number of foreclosures on minority-owned properties, and a disproportionate number of exploitative loans in minority neighborhoods. The Supreme Court heard this case and confirmed that the City of Miami’s alleged injuries “fall within the zone of interests that the [Fair Housing Act] protects.” However, the Court rejected “foreseeability” alone as a sufficient standard for establishing proximate cause under the FHA. The Court remanded to the Eleventh Circuit to “define, in the first instance, the contours of proximate cause under the FHA,” noting that proximate cause requires “some direct relation between the injury asserted and the injurious conduct alleged.” The issue in this case is how to define causation under the FHA under these circumstances. Filed May __, 2018 (California Supreme Court) Quigley v. Garden Valley Fire Protection District No. Pro Bono Author: Daniel P Barer This case concerns whether statutory immunity must be alleged as an affirmative defense and is a procedural question of first impression at the California Supreme Court. In this case, a Forest Service firefighter was severely injured when a water truck ran over her as she slept at a base camp during a wildfire fighting assignment. She sued the Garden Valley Fire Protection District, Chester Fire Protection District, and two of their employees for damages, claiming she was injured because of their negligence, a dangerous condition of public property, and defendants’ failure to warn. Following the plaintiff’s opening argument at trial, the district moved for nonsuit, asserting immunity under the California Claims Act Section 850.4 and the common law firefighter’s rule. Plaintiff’s counsel objected, claiming that immunity under 850.4 was waived because it had not been asserted during pleadings. The trial court ultimately granted the district’s motion, holding that statutory immunity had not been waived. The appellate court also agreed that immunity under Section 850.4 is jurisdictional and may be raised at any time. The question before the California Supreme Court is whether, as the Court of Appeal held, the governmental immunity set forth in Government Code section 850.4 may be raised for the first time at trial. Filed ____, 2018 (Florida Supreme Court, Petition for Review) City of Miami Beach v. Florida Retail Federation, Inc. No. Pro Bono Author: In 2003, the Florida legislature enacted section 218.077 of the Florida Statutes, which established that the federal minimum wage was the minimum wage for the state of Florida. Subsection (2) of the statute preempted local government ordinances that sought to raise the minimum wage above the federal minimum wage. One year later, Florida voters passed, via a citizen initiative, an amendment to the Florida Constitution, Article X, Section 24, which established a higher statewide minimum wage than the federal minimum wage. The Amendment contained the following language: “This Amendment provides for payment of a minimum wage and shall not be construed to preempt or otherwise limit the authority of the state legislature or any other public body to adopt or enforce any other law, regulation, requirement, policy or standard that provides for payment of higher or supplemental wages or benefits, or that extends such protections to employers or employees not covered by this amendment.” (emphasis added) Thereafter, the City of Miami Beach enacted an ordinance providing for a higher minimum wage than the one set forth in Article X, Section 24. A number of retail associations sued the City, claiming the ordinance was preempted by the Florida legislature. The City argued that the 2004 constitutional amendment nullified the preemption provision in the 2003 statute. The appellate court rejected that argument, holding that section 218.077(2) of the Florida Statutes preempts political subdivisions in the state from establishing a minimum wage and that Article X, Section 24 of the Florida Constitution did not invalidate the preemption provision. The court reasoned that the amendment’s text contained no express limitation to the preemption provision. The issue on appeal is whether the Florida statute preempting local governments from adopting higher minimum wage laws was invalidated by the later Florida Constitution Amendment? IMLA has submitted a notice of intent to file an amicus brief and will file a brief if the Florida Supreme Court accepts review. Filed April 14, 2018 (Pennsylvania Supreme Court) Filed March 10, 2017 (Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania) Williams v. City of Philadelphia No. 2077 and 2078 Pro Bono Authors: William Leonard & Rigel Farr Philadelphia seeks to implement its PBT, which was passed in June 2016. The PBT would impose a 1.5 cent tax per fluid ounce by distributors to dealers on the transfer of sugar sweetened beverages (SSBs). PBT states that the tax is imposed only when the “supply, acquisition, delivery or transport is for the purpose of the dealer’s holding out for retail sale within the City the [SSB]. . ..” Generally, distributors are responsible for the payment of the tax to the City; however, if the distributor does not pay, the dealer is responsible for the payment. Consumers are not responsible for the tax (though distributors like Coca Cola may decide to increase prices as a result of the tax). The PBT’s definition of SSB specifically excludes things like baby formula, medical food, milk, and products which contain more than 50% fruit and/or vegetables as well as products that a purchaser can add sugar to at the point of sale. Plaintiffs, who are retailers and beverage and food associations filed suit, seeking injunctive and declaratory relief to invalidate the law, claiming that it is preempted by state and federal law. In Pennsylvania, the Sterling Act empowers the City of Philadelphia to levy and assess certain taxes for general revenue purposes under certain restrictions. The district court held that while the purpose of the Sterling Act is to prohibit double-taxation, Philadelphia’s PBT was not preempted by the law simply because a business is taxed on certain aspects of its operations by the Commonwealth’s Sales and Use Tax. Instead, the court noted, the Sterling Act only prohibits a local government from imposing a tax on the same aspects of a business that is also being taxed by the Commonwealth. The district court reasoned that the respective taxes apply to “two different transactions, have two different measures and are paid by different taxpayers,” even though the Sales and Use tax also applies to soft drinks. Notably, the PBT only applies when SSBs are distributed to the dealer, regardless of whether the dealer sells the product to the consumer, whereas the Sales and Use tax is imposed at the retail level and paid by the consumer. The district court similarly held that the law was not preempted by SNAP (the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) because again, it does not impose a tax on the consumer, but rather on the distributor. The issue on appeal was whether the City’s law is preempted by the Commonwealth’s Sales and Use tax and/or federal law (SNAP). The Commonwealth Court held in favor of the City, concluding that the PBT was not preempted by state or federal law. Filed March 30, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Agua Caliente Indian Tribe v. Riverside County No. 17-56003 Pro Bono Author: Jennifer Henning The Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla (the Tribe) is a federally recognized tribe located in Riverside County, California. The tribe and its individual members occupy many parcels of land spread out across the county and within Palm Springs’ city limits. Tribal members within the county have leased allotted tribal land for commercial and residential uses. As an example, such leasehold interests account for about half of downtown Palm Springs. Because the tribe’s land is thoroughly integrated into the local community in a phenomenon known as “checkerboarding,” the county provides services for all community members and properties—regardless of a property’s tribal affiliation or land trust status. To fund its services, Riverside collects a 1% possessory interest tax (PIT), which includes private possessory interests on tribal land. It distributes a large portion of this revenue to other tax entities within the county including parts of the Tribe’s reservation. Local education-entities receive the largest percentage of the revenue. California’s tax code provides that private leaseholds on reservation land are subject to the tax and the underlying Indian interests in the land are tax-exempt. Under Section 465 of the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA), lands acquired pursuant to the IRA that are held in trust for Indian tribes by the United States are entirely exempt from state and local taxation. The Tribe filed in Federal District Court to prevent the County from applying its PIT to leasehold interests, contending that the IRA preempts California’s tax law. The district court ruled in favor of the County on MSJ. Because most of the tribal land in the county was acquired through several earlier executive orders rather than the IRA, Section 465 was deemed inapplicable. The Court also rejected the Tribe’s argument that Section 465 should be liberally construed in favor of tribal sovereignty. Further, in applying the Bracker balancing test, which weighs the value of federal preemption against state, local and/or tribal interests at issue, the court determined that the state’s interest in the large number of public services it provided on and around the land in question outweighed any competing tribal or federal interests. See 448 U.S. 136 (1980). The issues in this case are: (1) Whether federal law preempts California law authorizing taxes to be applied to possessory (leasehold) interests on land held in trust for Indian tribes (2) Whether Riverside County’s application of its ad valorem tax to private possessory interests on reservation land constitutes an unlawful infringement on the Tribe’s sovereignty In a great win for Riverside County, the Ninth Circuit upheld the County’s right to assess and collect a possessory interest tax from non-Indian lessees of Indian trust lands. This case, Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians v. Riverside County, was important to IMLA due to our interest in preventing unwarranted preemption of local laws as well as our concern that the loss of tax revenue for the Riverside County and potentially other local governments in the Ninth Circuit would be extremely disruptive. Local governments in California are restricted in their ability to raise revenue. Thus, without a way to raise enough revenues through other sources, counties would be expected to provide services to their residents such as public safety, emergency response, water delivery, parks and recreation while facing an economic deficit. Thank you to Jennifer Henning with the California State Association of Counties for her excellent work on the amicus brief on behalf of IMLA and CSAC in this case. To view the decision, click here. Filed February 16, 2017 (Georgia Intermediate Court of Appeal) Stanford v. City of Albany No. Pro Bono Author: Rusi Patel Deceased, LeSheldon Kernard Stanford, was severely beaten by multiple private individuals, after which he was shot and killed in February 2010 outside a private business, Brick City. Brick City essentially functioned as a nightclub with documented code violations and a reputation for hosting numerous fights, shootings, assaults, illegal sale and distribution of drugs and alcohol and other unlawful activities. Since January 2008, the police had arrested individuals on five occasions and had recovered numerous illegal drugs and weapons from the facility. In July of 2008, Albany’s code enforcement department recommended Brick City’s occupancy license be revoked based on criminal activity known to code and law enforcement. Soon thereafter, however, the Dougherty County District Attorney’s office requested that the City stop the proposed closure proceeding in order to allow a covert criminal investigation to be conducted. On the night of the shooting, Stanford attended the venue with several family members. Through the course of the evening, several fights broke out at Brick City, resulting in crowds being disbursed outside the venue. While outside the venue, Stanford was beaten and then shot and killed by private individuals while unarmed. At the time of the shooting, the owners and operators of Brick City, Mr. and Mrs. Loving, did not have a valid licensing authorizing the sale and distribution of alcohol. The venue’s occupant tax certificate was ultimately revoked at an emergency board meeting two days after Stanford’s death. Stanford’s parents have sought to hold the City of Albany accountable for the actions of the private individuals that caused Stanford’s death by bringing a nuisance claim against the city, citing the city’s refusal to close down the business as a main contributor towards their son’s death. Under Georgia law, municipal corporations can be liable for creating or maintaining “nuisances,” which is broadly defined by statute as a reoccurring condition that causes special damage, hurt, or inconvenience. At trial, the jury awarded Stanford’s parents $15.2 million. The City of Albany is being held 70% liable for failing to abate the nuisance caused by Brick City. The issue on appeal is whether the City’s inaction with regard to revoking a business’s occupancy tax certificate amounts to the maintenance of a nuisance. Filed February 12, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) No. 17-17478 and 17-17480 Filed June 28, 2017 & March 23, 2017 (California District Court) No. 3:17-cv-00485 San Francisco v. Trump Pro Bono Author: Brett Schuman, Neel Chatterjee, & Brian Burgess Status: The district court judge entered a nationwide injunction on April 25, 2017 and denied the federal government’s motions to dismiss and for reconsideration on July 20, 2017. In November, the district court entered a permanent injunction. On January 25, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13768: Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States (the “EO”). The EO provides in pertinent part: Sec. 9. Sanctuary Jurisdictions. It is the policy of the executive branch to ensure, to the fullest extent of the law, that a State, or a political subdivision of a State, shall comply with 8 U.S.C. 1373. (a) In furtherance of this policy, the Attorney General and the Secretary, in their discretion and to the extent consistent with law, shall ensure that jurisdictions that willfully refuse to comply with 8 U.S.C. 1373 (sanctuary jurisdictions) are not eligible to receive Federal grants, except as deemed necessary for law enforcement purposes by the Attorney General or the Secretary. Notably, Sanctuary Jurisdictions are not defined in the EO. 8 U.S.C. 1373 provides that local governments may not prohibit or restrict any government entity or official from “sending to, or receiving from, [federal immigration officials] information regarding the citizenship or immigration status . . . of any individual.” San Francisco laws limit when city employees and agencies may assist with the enforcement of federal immigration laws. These laws generally prohibit city employees from using city funds or resources to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law, unless required by federal or state law. They specifically prohibit local law enforcement officers from cooperating with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (“ICE”) detainer requests, which are voluntary, and limit when local law enforcement officers may give ICE advance notice of a person’s release from local jail. (By way of background, ICE detainer requests generally require jurisdictions to hold an individual for up to forty-eight hours excluding weekends and holidays). See 8 C.F.R. § 287.7(d). San Francisco filed suit seeking declaratory and injunctive relief that the EO and Section 1373 violate the Tenth Amendment and that the federal government should be enjoined from enforcing the unconstitutional aspects of the EO as applied to sanctuary cities. IMLA submitted an amicus brief focusing on: (1) issues relating to local government autonomy / sovereignty; and (2) the fact that the EO potentially requires local governments to violate the Fourth Amendment by requiring them to hold those suspected of illegal immigration pursuant to ICE detainers for up to forty-eight hours even if they lack probable cause to do so. The federal district granted San Francisco’s motion for a preliminary injunction, concluding that the Executive Order was likely unconstitutional on a number of grounds. The court noted that: “[t]he Executive Order uses coercive means in an attempt to force states and local jurisdictions to honor civil detainer requests, which are voluntary ‘requests’ precisely because the federal government cannot command states to comply with them under the Tenth Amendment.” After the Attorney General issued a memorandum interpreting the Executive Order, the federal government filed a motion to dismiss and a motion for reconsideration of the judge’s order and IMLA again filed an amicus brief again supporting the City and the judge denied the federal government’s motion for reconsideration / motion to dismiss. The judge then entered a permanent injunction, which has been appealed to the Ninth Circuit. Filed January 29, 2018 (Ninth Circuit) Americare Medservices, Inc. v. City of Anaheim, et. al No. 17-55565 Pro Bono Author: Adam Hofmann Plaintiff, Americare Medservices, sued twelve cities in Orange County, California after each city rejected plaintiff’s request to be placed on the city’s emergency ambulance service rotation. Plaintiff alleged that each city abused its police and regulatory powers under the Sherman Antitrust Act (Sherman Act) (15 U.S.C. § 1-7) in designating a single provider of emergency ambulance services in its geographical area. The cities asserted immunity to the Sherman Act claims under Parker v. Brown, 317 U.S. 341 (1943) (Parker immunity / state action immunity). Parker immunity exempts anticompetitive conduct “engaged in as an act of government by the State as sovereign, or, by its subdivisions, pursuant to state policy to displace competition with regulations or monopoly public service.” The district court agreed that Parker immunity applied and found that the Emergency Medical Services System and the Prehospital Emergency Medical Care Personnel Act (EMS Act) (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1797 et seq.) expressly declare the State’s intent to extend state action immunity under federal antitrust laws to “local governmental agencies” carrying out their prescribed functions under the EMS Act. (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1797.6(b).) The district court further noted that the EMS Act permits eligible cities to continue administering prehospital emergency medical services indefinitely. (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1797.201.) The district court rejected plaintiff’s argument that it should recognize a market participant exception to Parker immunity which would apply where a state acts “not in a regulatory capacity but as a commercial participant.” The district court concluded that even if such an exception existed, the exception would not apply where the state is performing its traditional government functions, which include the operation of emergency ambulance services. The issues on appeal are: (1) Should local governments be afforded Parker immunity for designating a single provider of ambulance services; and (2) Should the court recognize a market participant exception to Parker immunity? Filed January 17, 2018 (Tennessee Supreme Court) Jetmore v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville & Davidson County No. M2016-01792 Pro Bono Author: Shauna Billingsley Due to the extremely high volume of requests from commercial requestors / data miners for copies of accident reports, Nashville’s police department (“Metro”) implemented a policy of handling large-volume copy requests during off-peak hours, so that records staff could handle small requests right away (3 copies) with the remaining copies being made later, during off-peak hours. These high-volume copy requests are particularly time consuming because Metro is required to redact out protected information (driver’s license numbers, juvenile information, social security numbers, etc.). This information must be manually redacted and takes 3-5 minutes per report. Metro implemented this policy under Tenn. Code Ann. § 10-7-506(a), which provides that local governments have the right to make and enforce their own rules regarding the making of copies (which is different than inspections, which are handled under 10-7-503(a)(2)(B), which requires that these records must be “promptly” made available). Metro ensures that its accident reports are available for public viewing within one week after it has been approved (though in practice the time period is often much shorter), which is consistent with the inspection provision of the Act. The Plaintiff in this case operates a business where he routinely makes large-volume requests for copies of traffic accident reports. (Plaintiff uses the contact information he gathers from the reports (names, addresses, and telephone numbers) to solicit business. On January 13, 2016, when Plaintiff began making copy requests, he asked for eighty (80) separate accident reports at once. Accordingly, pursuant to the policy, three of the reports were redacted and printed for Plaintiff on that day, with the other reports to be redacted and printed later during off peak-hours. Plaintiff sued, claiming that Metro’s policy of making copies during off-peak hours violated the Public Records Act. The Tennessee Court of Appeals ruled that copies and inspections are to be treated exactly the same under the Tennessee Public Records Act and ruled that Metro’s policy constitutes a violation of the that Act (and also awarded attorneys’ fees, in the amount of about $120,000). The issue in the petition for review by the Tennessee Supreme is: “Should this Court grant certiorari to hear a split-division issue involving whether local governments may manage large-volume, commercial requests for copies of accident reports during off-peak hours, so that individuals who request their own accident reports may be served during regular business hours?” Filed January 2, 2018 (Seventh Circuit) Filed August 31, 2017 (N.D.Ill) City of Chicago v. Sessions No. 1:17-cv-5720 Pro Bono Author: Laura Tice & Katherine O’Brien Held: The Seventh Circuit upheld the preliminary injunction against the Department of Justice’s imposition of the unlawful grant conditions. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (“Byrne JAG”) provides financial support for local government law enforcement agencies around the country. Through a press release, the Department of Justice announced that it would be imposing new conditions on Byrne JAG grantees, including requiring grantees to: (1) certify compliance with 8 U.S.C. §1373; (2) allow federal officials the access to local government facilities to interrogate arrestees (“access” condition); and (3) provide at least 48 hours’ notice to federal officials prior to an arrestee’s release if immigration authorities have issued a detainer request for that individual (“notice” condition). Chicago brought suit seeking a preliminary injunction against the Attorney General from imposing new conditions to the Byrne JAG. Chicago alleges that the conditions are inconsistent with the limitations imposed by the Constitution’s Spending Clause, the Fourth Amendment and basic separation of powers principles. The district court issued a preliminary injunction against the DOJ from enforcing the “notice” and “access” conditions, but denied Chicago’s request for an injunction on the 1373 compliance certification. The case is pending appeal to the Seventh Circuit. Filed December 29, 2017 (California Supreme Court) Boling v. Public Employment Relations Board No. S242034 Pro Bono Author: Arthur Hartinger This case pits two California laws against each other and puts the local government in the middle, with the potential for liability on either side, depending on how the California Supreme Court will rule. Specifically, a local government’s obligation to put a properly verified citizen’s initiative on a ballot versus a local government’s obligation to meet-and-confer with a Union. Interest groups developed a Comprehensive Pension Reform Initiative (CPRI) to replace the City of San Diego’s defined benefit plan with a 401(k)-style defined contribution plan for new employees. Jerry Sanders, the then-Mayor of San Diego, was a supporter of the initiative and proposed developing such a 401(k)-style plan through a citizen’s ballot initiative rather than going through the City Council. A City Councilmember also announced that he was putting forth a pension reform plan. The final initiative proposal put forth by interest groups melded the two proposals. These private interest groups then circulated a petition to have the CPRI placed on the ballot and received the requisite signatures to do so. After the County verified the petition, the City Council placed it on the ballot as Proposition B, without change, as required by California law. City employee unions then demanded to meet-and-confer over Prop B pursuant to California’s collective bargaining law – the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (MMBA). By way of background, under California Supreme Court precedent, Seal Beach, 36 Cal.3d 591 (1984), before a governing body may place a charter amendment on the ballot, it must first comply with the meet-and-confer obligations under the MMBA. Believing it had no obligation to meet-and-confer over a citizens’ initiative, the City refused the unions’ demands. After Prop B passed with 67% of the vote, the Unions filed unfair practice charges with California’s Public Employment Relations Board (PERB), alleging, among other things, that the citizens’ initiative was used by the Mayor as a sham device to bypass the City’s obligation to meet-and-confer. PERB agreed and issued a decision holding that the City violated the MMBA by refusing to meet-and-confer and further determined that, because City violated this purported obligation, PERB could order “make whole” remedies that de facto compelled City to disregard the CPRI. The City appealed, and the Court of Appeal reversed. PERB argued that its decision should be afforded deference given its specialized knowledge and expertise, however the Court of Appeal rejected that argument given that PERB’s ruling rested on agency principles, of which it has no specialized knowledge, and it therefore undertook de novo review. On the merits, the Court of Appeal concluded the meet-and-confer requirements of the MMBA do not apply to citizen initiatives (only those initiated by the City). The court rejected PERB’s determination that the participation by a few government officials and employees in drafting and campaigning for a citizen initiative somehow converted it into a governing-body-sponsored ballot proposal via agency principles. The court reasoned that although the Mayor and a few other elected and non-elected city employees supported the CPRI, it was never approved by the governing body (i.e., the City Council) and was therefore not a government-body-sponsored charter amendment. The issues before the California Supreme Court are: (1) When a final decision of the PERB under the MMBA is challenged in the Court of Appeal, what standard of review applies to the PERB’s interpretation of the applicable statutes and its findings of fact? (2) Is a public agency’s duty to “meet and confer” under the MMBA limited to situations in which the agency’s governing body proposes to take formal action affecting employee wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment? Filed December 7, 2017 (Fourth Circuit) Davison v. Rose No. 17-1988 Pro Bono Author: Rodney Smolla The issue in this case is whether a public official’s personal Facebook page should be treated, for First Amendment purposes, as a public forum. Two federal district courts in Virginia reached opposite conclusions within a few days of each other and both cases are being appealed to the Fourth Circuit. IMLA submitted amicus briefs in both cases arguing that a public official’s personal social media page should not be considered a public forum. Filed November 22, 2017 (Ninth Circuit) Silva Jr., v. City & County of Honolulu et. al. No. Pro Bono Authors: Adam Rosenberg & Dan Lloyd Around 8 pm police responded to a call about an individual dressed all in black walking down the middle of a busy 6 lane roadway. When they ordered him to move to the sidewalk, he ran away, but continued to remain in the middle of the street, which still had a good amount of traffic on it (though exactly how busy it was is disputed, though likely not material). After trying unsuccessfully to catch him, the officers warned they would use pepper spray. When he did not comply, they utilized pepper spray, which had no effect on him and he continued to run away while remaining in the middle of the busy street. They then warned him they would tase him. One officer tried to tase him, but the individual did not fall to the ground at first. After the third time that the officer deployed his Taser, the suspect fell to the ground. Eventually the officers subdued him, got his hands behind his back and cuffed him though he continued to resist the entire time. They brought him to the side walk where he lost consciousness. They immediately provided medical care and called paramedics. He was brought to a hospital, but died 12 hours later. The parties dispute whether the Taser made contact with the deceased. The officers claim that the Taser / barbs never actually made contact with him and that he tripped (which is why he ended up on the ground). The medical examiner also testified that none of the barbs actually made contact with him. The suspect’s estate disputes that fact as does their expert. The medical examiner indicated that the interaction with the police was a “minimal” cause of death, whereas the illegal drugs (methamphetamine) was a moderate to marked (most severe) cause of death and an enlarged heart was slight to moderate cause of death. The deceased’s estate brought a Section 1983 claim against the officers for excessive force, claiming that the multiple uses of the pepper spray and the Taser were unreasonable as a matter of law and that they should not be entitled to qualified immunity. The district court found that disputed material facts about whether the Taser shocked the deceased (and therefore the amount of force used/nature of the intrusion) precluded the officer’s motion for summary judgment and for qualified immunity. The court similarly found that because whether the law is clearly established for the purposes of qualified immunity is a fact specific inquiry, it could not grant the officers qualified immunity with regard to either their use of the pepper spray or Taser when there were disputed facts. While the exact issue on appeal has not been formulated, the City will likely argue that even assuming the evidence in light most favorable to Plaintiff (that he was Tased and fell to the ground), the Officers acted reasonably. Further, given the fact that decedent was standing in the middle of a busy roadway and evading arrest, the Officers are entitled to qualified immunity because the law was not clearly established at the time of the incident as the other Taser cases are significantly different from the facts in this case. Filed November 13, 2017 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing En Banc) Estate of Lopez v. Gelhaus & County of Sonoma No. Pro Bono Author: David Nefouse Sonoma County Sheriff’s Deputies Gelhaus and Schemmel were patrolling an area of the county known for gang activity in the afternoon. Gelhaus noticed an individual walking on the sidewalk about 100 feet away from them in the opposite direction carrying what he believed to be an AK-47 with the muzzle pointed toward the ground. From that distance, they could not tell his age though they believed he was an older teen. Schemmel drove toward Andy and flipped on his emergency lights and “chirped” the siren and parked about 40 feet from the teen. Gelahus got out and drew his pistol and positioned himself in the V of his open door and knelt on the ground for cover. He yelled loudly at the teen, who had continued walking and was now about 60 feet away, “Drop the gun!” The parties do not dispute that the teen did not drop the gun, and instead started to rotate his body toward the officers while continuing to hold the gun. Though the parties dispute exactly what happened next, both officers indicated that the weapon was starting to come up as the teen turned toward the officers. Gelahus fired a number of shots and killed the teen. The plaintiffs’ expert disputes that the gun was starting to come up. The total amount of time elapsed from the police car’s “chirp” until the shots were fired was twenty seconds. The district court denied qualified immunity, concluding that a jury could have found Gelhaus acted unreasonably when viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the teen. Specifically, the district court concluded that the riffle barrel was beginning to rise, but that at the time Gelhaus shot the teen, the riffle barrel was not at a level that compelled the conclusion that the officers were threatened with imminent harm. Noting that it grants summary judgment “sparingly” in excessive force cases, particularly where the “only witness other than the officers was killed during the encounter,” the Ninth Circuit upheld the denial of qualified immunity. In so holding, the Ninth Circuit relied on a number of immaterial facts in coming to the conclusion that the teen was not an immediate threat to the officers’ safety and therefore under the Graham factors, qualified immunity was inappropriate. These factual disputes included: 1) whether the teen looked over his shoulder when the officers “chirped” the police siren; 2) how many times Gelhaus shouted to drop the gun (the court accepted there was at least 1 shout); 3) which hand the teen was holding the gun in; and 4) the movement of the teen’s gun. On this last point, the Ninth Circuit noted that it must accept the facts the district court assumed in denying summary judgment, and here the district court made an express factual finding that “the rifle barrel was beginning to rise; and given that it started in a position where it was pointed down at the ground, it could have been raised to a slightly-higher level without posing any threat to the officers.” The dissent sums up the problem with the majority’s opinion: “The majority opinion exhaustively recounts the facts of the case, but for me, they are largely irrelevant. One critical fact—the upward motion of the fake gun—resolves the qualified immunity issue in Deputy Gelhaus’s favor. …I agree with the majority, therefore, that the precise angle at which Andy pointed the gun is a disputed fact, but as I explain below, that is not material to the qualified immunity analysis.” The dissent goes on to explain that the majority incorrectly characterized the situation as the teen merely standing on the sidewalk holding a gun that was pointed down on the ground, which is qualitatively different than what the undisputed facts actually showed – i.e., the gun was rising. Finally, the dissent criticizes the majority for creating a “novel rule—that we must accept as true all facts not conclusively disproved by evidence in the record even if those facts have no evidentiary support of their own—”and notes that such a rule “is plainly wrong.” The issues in this case are: 1) whether the officers violated the deceased’s Fourth Amendment rights by employing deadly force under the circumstances where the teen was turning toward them holding what they reasonably believed was an assault rifle as the gun barrel was starting to rise; and 2) Even if they did, whether the law was clearly established at the time of the events. Filed November 7, 2017 (Fourth Circuit) Davison v. Loudoun County Board of Supervisors, et al. No. 17-2002 Pro Bono Author: Rodney Smolla The issues in this case are: (1) When is a social media account maintained by a public official considered “governmental” in nature, subjecting it to constitutional constraints?; and (2) Was the law clearly established at the time the Defendant banned the Plaintiff from her Facebook account such that she was not entitled to qualified immunity? The Defendant, Phyllis Randall is the Chair of Loudoun County Board of Supervisors. In December 2015, the day before she was sworn into office, she created the “Chair Phyllis J. Randall” Facebook page. Her purpose in creating the Facebook page was to address County residents and generally uses it to share information of interest with the County. The “about” section of the Facebook page indicates that she is a “government official” and uses her county contact information. She used the page to request constituents to contact her and also solicited participation in initiatives she was running in her governmental capacity and posted about events that she participated in as a county official. However, she created the page outside the County’s official channels and when she leaves office, the page will not revert to County control and she uses her personal devices to post on the Facebook page during her own time. She also posts items of a personal nature, such as personal congratulatory notes, posts about a shopping trip, etc. In addition to the Chair Phyllis Randall Facebook page, Randall also maintains a personal Facebook page, which she discusses family matters, and a “Friends of Phyllis Randall” page, which she generally uses to discuss politics. At a public meeting in February 2016, Plaintiff attended a panel discussion and anonymously submitted a question concerning ethics pledges for public servants. Randall volunteered to answer the question. At some point that evening, the Defendant posted about the panel discussion on her “Chair Phyllis J. Randall” Facebook page. Plaintiff then commented on her post. Plaintiff doesn’t recall the content of his comment. Randall recalls that it included an allegation of corruption on the part of Loudoun County’s School Board involving conflicts of interest and their family members. (The Plaintiff was embroiled in a dispute with the local school board and other officials, including the principal of his children’s school, and filed a number of lawsuits against them and had threatened them to the point that he had been barred from the school and there were separate lawsuits related to those proceedings not at issue in this case). Randall concluded that she did not want to leave his allegations on her Facebook page and therefore chose to delete the entire post, including his comment. She then banned the Plaintiff from the Chair Phyllis Randall Facebook page, but the following morning (no more than 12 hours later) she reconsidered her decision to ban him and “unbanned” him. The Plaintiff brought suit against Randall under § 1983, alleging that she violated the First Amendment when she banned him from her Facebook page for a period of 12 hours. He also brought suit under § 1983 against the County, claiming it had a custom, policy, or practice that brought about the constitutional violation. The district court dismissed all counts against the County and against Chair Randall in her official capacity. The district court concluded, however, that under the totality of the circumstances, Randall was acting “under the color of state law” in maintaining the Facebook page “Chair Phyllis J. Randall” and banning the Plaintiff from that page violated the First Amendment in her individual capacity. Regarding the First Amendment claim, the court concluded that Randall had created a public forum with her Facebook page. The court did not determine what type of forum (traditional, limited, etc.) because it found that she had engaged in viewpoint discrimination by banning the Plaintiff from her page. Notably, the court did not mention, let alone consider, whether the law was clearly established and therefore, whether Randall was entitled to qualified immunity. (Though this issue was argued by Randall). Filed October 23, 2017 (Fifth Circuit) City of El Cenizo, Texas, et. al v. State of Texas No. 17-50762 Pro Bono Author: Laura Trice / Katherine O’Brien The State of Texas passed a law that imposes a number of immigration enforcement related restrictions on local governments in Texas, including a requirement to honor federal immigration detainers. Local governments and their officials are also prohibited under the law from adopting, enforcing, or endorsing a policy under which the entity prohibits or materially limits the enforcement of immigration laws. Local officials who violate the law are subject to fines and removal from office. A number of jurisdictions in Texas filed suit arguing, among other things, that the law violated the First Amendment to the extent that it prohibited a local government official from voicing opinions related to immigration enforcement. The local governments also argued that the law’s requirement that they honor federal civil immigration detainer requests, regardless of whether they are supported by probable cause and issued pursuant to a warrant, violates the Fourth Amendment. The Fifth Circuit largely upheld the Texas law. Specifically, it upheld the requirement to honor ICE Detainer requests and cooperate with immigration officials. However, it held that the portion of the law that prohibited local officials from endorsing a law or policy which materially limits the enforcement of immigration law violated the First Amendment. Filed October 19, 2017 (E.d.Pa) City of Philadelphia v. Sessions No. 2:17-cv-03894 Pro Bono Author: Laura Trice / Katherine O’Brien Philadelphia also brought suit against the Attorney General based on the same Byrne JAG conditions and made similar arguments as the City of Chicago. Philadelphia also sought a determination that it complies with §1373. The federal district court ruled in favor of the City, finding that it complies with §1373. The Department of Justice appealed to the Third Circuit. Filed October 6, 2017 (Missouri Appellate Court) Sophian Plaza Association, et. al. v. City of Kansas City No. Pro Bono Author: Allen Garner This case involves the question of whether the city can contract away its police powers indefinitely, binding all future legislative decisions regarding the city’s trash removal. In 1971, the city enacted an ordinance that provided for the collection of solid waste from all residences except those with 7 or more dwelling units (i.e., apartment buildings and trailer parks). Two groups of apartment building owners sued the city at the time, claiming that ordinance was unconstitutional. During the pendency of the proceedings, the parties settled their lawsuit and filed with the court a stipulation and agreement stating that the city would treat all its residents equally by agreeing to either provide trash collection services to everyone or to provide a cash equivalent to owners of the apartment buildings / trailer parks (the “trash rebate program”). The court incorporated the terms of the stipulation and agreement into its judgment and made the provisions mandatory. The city opted to pay the rebate to these owners and did so for decades, regardless of whether the owners were a part of the original lawsuit. Beginning in the 1990s and continuing into the early and mid-2000s, the city began studying and analyzing the financial impact of the trash rebate program to the apartment dwelling owners in the system. In 2010, the city opted to terminate the trash rebate program, via an ordinance it adopted, as a means to address the city’s financial circumstances, thereby saving the city approximately 1.4 million dollars per year. Condo associations brought a class action alleging civil contempt against the city based on its repeal of the trash rebate program. The district court found that the city knowingly, intentionally, and deliberately chose not to comply with the 1977 court order when it eliminated the trash rebate program. The court further found the stipulation and agreement was a valid and enforceable contract and that the city was in breach of the contract and contempt of court. The court entered a judgment against the city for over $10,000,000 plus over $4,000,000 in attorney’s fees and costs, and 9% interest. The issues on appeal that IMLA’s brief focused on are: (1) Whether the city can contract away its police powers such as trash collection; and (2) Whether the court order impermissibly bound future legislative decisions. Filed October 3, 2017 (Eleventh Circuit) Kondrat’yev v. City of Pensacola No. 3:16-cv-00195 Pro Bono Author: Michael Buschbacher In the early 1940’s a cross was erected in a city park. As time passed, the cross remained and amphitheater was constructed around it and some churches began using the area for Easter Sunrise services. The city maintains the cross/property at about $233 per year. The city issued permits for church’s use and one of the Plaintiffs in this case also received a permit for one Easter Sunrise service to host a satanic ritual requiring the long-time church user of the property to move. Four individuals brought suit against the city, claiming the cross offended them and violates the Establishment Clause. The district court found that under the Lemon test, the city had violated the Establishment Clause. One of the significant issues in the case involves the following issue of standing: do the plaintiffs who were formerly residents, but who are no longer residents have standing? The case also raises the standing question of the “offended observer” in the Establishment Clause context. Another issue raised by the lower court’s decision is the historical underpinnings of the Establishment Clause and whether it was intended to circumscribe state or local governments or instead, to act as a limitation on the federal government to prevent it from creating a governmentally backed religion. Filed September __, 2017 (Florida District Court of Appeal) Airbnb v. Miami No. 15-1485 Pro Bono Author: Frances De La Guardia Miami’s current zoning ordinance was adopted in October 2009 and has been interpreted to prohibit vacation rentals. Miami’s Planning and Zoning Director has testified that, under the City’s interpretation of the statute, uses must be set forth clearly in the ordinance to be permitted; therefore, because the zoning ordinance does not define terms associated with short-term rentals (i.e. “vacation rental,” “short term rental,” and “dwelling unit”), the ordinance has been interpreted by the City to prohibit them. Florida has since passed a statute preempting local governments from enacting laws, ordinances, or regulations prohibiting or otherwise regulating vacation rentals (Section 509.032(7)(b) Fla. Stat.). However, the law made an exception for any local laws that were adopted prior to June 1, 2011. Additionally, in 2014, the Florida Attorney General issued an opinion stating that a prior zoning restriction without an explicit ban on vacation rentals could not subsequently be interpreted to restrict vacation rentals. Airbnb sued the City challenging enforcement of its code relative to short term rentals. Miami argues that its ordinance is grandfathered, since it was enacted in 2009 and properly regulates short-term rentals. The trial court disagreed, coming to the opposite conclusion. Relying on the Florida AG opinion’s emphasis on specific language, the court ignored Miami’s interpretation and held that the ordinance did not regulate short-term rentals since the terms were not included or defined in the 2009 ordinance. The trial court enjoined the City from enforcing its Code provisions. The court also concluded that a zoning ordinance that does not include a reference to a specific use does not regulate that use and it is permitted. The main issue in this case is whether Miami’s regulation (Miami 21), which relates to inns, bed and breakfasts, and hotels, is preempted from applying to vacation rentals by state law. Filed August 30, 2017 (Nevada Supreme Court) Glover v. Cargile & City of North Las Vegas No. 70-988 Pro Bono Author: Robert Freeman In this case, a North Las Vegas police officer was responding to an emergency involving an active shooting. On his way to the scene, he made the decision to go through a red light. The intersection had a hill that made it difficult to see all traffic coming through it. It is a disputed fact as to whether the officer had his lights and sirens on. It is undisputed that it was department policy for him to have his lights and sirens on in this situation. He was involved in a crash with someone going through that intersection and that person was injured. It is a disputed fact as to who struck who in the intersection. NRS 41.032 immunizes municipal agencies and their employees against actions: “[b]ased on the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or perform discretionary function or duty on the part of the State or any of its agencies or political subdivisions or of any officer, employee or immune contractor of any of these, whether or not the discretion involved is abused.” The Nevada Supreme court has interpreted the statute consistent with federal law, and that court applies discretionary immunity where: (1) the allegedly negligent acts involve elements of judgment or choice; and (2) the judgment or choice made involves social, economic, or political policy considerations. The injured party sued and the lower court initially denied the City’s motion for summary judgment, but then after a motion for reconsideration, granted the City’s motion. In its decision granting summary judgment, the court concluded that because the officer’s actions involved his individual discretion, and were related to, and in furtherance of, public policy, the officer and the City were entitled to discretionary immunity pursuant to NRS 41.032. Specifically, the court concluded that the officer’s actions were undertaken while responding to an emergency and therefore in furtherance of public policies such as protecting the public / apprehending criminals. Because his actions did not constitute an intentional tort or bad faith, he was afforded discretionary immunity. The appellant / injured party argues that disputed material facts precluded the entry of summary judgment, including whether the officer had his sirens / lights on and who struck who in the intersection. The appellant also argues that because the officer chose to enter the intersection unsafely (without lights/sirens and knowing it was a blind intersection), he was endangering the public and that the law doesn’t say that the officer gets immunity unless you show bad faith. The City argued that while the officer’s discretion is not “unfettered,” his conduct as alleged only amounts to negligence or “abuse of discretion” and would still be subject to discretionary immunity even if everything they allege is true. Here, it was undisputed that he was utilizing discretion in driving his vehicle to an emergency in furtherance of public policy. The issues on appeal are: (1) Did the District Court err when it granted summary judgment in favor of Defendants based on discretionary immunity under NRS 41.032(2) when according to the appellant, the police officer violated his own safety rules and policies in causing a crash?; and (2) Did the District Court err when it concluded that discretionary immunity bars all claims against a police officer so long as they did not commit intentional torts or acted in “bad faith”? Filed August 21, 2017 (Montana Supreme Court) Basset v. City of Billings No. OP 17-0322 Pro Bono Author: Todd Hammer Officer Lamantia was dispatched to a loud party just after midnight. Upon arrival, he observed a young male subject running into a nearby driveway and hopping a retaining wall into a neighboring yard. Lamantia exited his car, yelled for the subject to stop and identified himself as a police officer. When the youth did not stop, Lamantia pursued the individual on foot. In his pursuit, he jumped over the retaining wall, losing his flashlight in the process. Unbeknownst to Officer Lamantia, Plaintiff Robert Bassett was taking his dog out and was standing in his yard, having just encountered one of the fleeing partygoers cutting across his property. Hoping to dissuade other late night revelers from trying to cut across his property, Bassett moved towards the retaining wall where he had seen a fleeing partygoer. Instead, Bassett encountered Lamantia crouched down, searching for his flashlight in the dark. Officer Lamantia apparently mistook Bassett for the individual he had been pursuing and tackled Basset to the ground. As soon as he realized Bassett wasn’t a threat, Lamantia released him. As a result of the encounter, Basset suffered a torn rotator cuff and sued Lamantia and the City of Billings under Section 1983. Bassett also alleged a state law claim of negligence against Lamantia. The City has argued that they are shielded under the public duty doctrine. The case was removed to federal court and summary judgment was granted in favor of the City on both claims. As to the separate negligence claim, the district court also found the public duty doctrine shielded Officer Lamantia from liability. Bassett appealed to the Ninth Circuit. Because this is an issue of first impression in Montana, the Ninth Circuit then submitted the issue via certified question to the Montana Supreme Court. The issue before the Montana Supreme Court is whether the public duty doctrine applies when the alleged injury arises solely from a law enforcement officer’s individual actions. Filed June 15, 2017 (Court of Appeals, Ohio) City of Cleveland v. State of Ohio No. 16-868008 Pro Bono Author: Joseph Scott As a part of an initiative to address poverty and income inequality, Cleveland enacted an ordinance requiring residents to perform at least 20% of construction worker hours in every city construction contract of at least $100,000. The ordinance also required contractors and subcontractors to use “significant effort” to ensure that at least 4% of those residents be low-income. The law was never challenged by the contracting community and has since been viewed favorably by city residents. Thirteen years later in 2016, the Ohio General Assembly sought to preempt Cleveland’s ordinance, characterizing it, among other things, as an impermissible residency requirement. The Ohio law prohibits public authorities from requiring contractors to employ a certain percentage of individuals from the geographic area of the public authority for construction. Cleveland filed suit, asserting that the preemptive legislation was a violation of Home Rule and arguing that it attempted to take a purely local issue and assert a state interest. The City was successful in the lower court and Ohio has appealed. This case addresses the issue of home rule and preemption. Specifically, it concerns the question of home rule in Ohio and whether the City of Cleveland is permitted to set its own hiring requirements for its construction contracts. Filed May 11, 2017 (California Supreme Court) T-Mobile v. City of San Francisco No. S238001 Pro Bono Author: Jeffrey Melching In 2011, San Francisco adopted a personal wireless service facilities ordinance that required service providers to obtain a permit to place their facilities in the right-of-way. The ordinance included several requirements, but the element relevant to this appeal is a provision conditioning a permit for larger equipment on an aesthetic review. T-Mobile and other personal wireless providers challenged that requirement, relying on a state statute, Public Utilities Code Section 7901, which gives telecom providers the ability to place their equipment in the public right-of-way so long as the equipment does not “incommode the public use of the road.” Plaintiffs argue that since aesthetic considerations are not relevant to whether their equipment obstructs travel, the local ordinance is preempted. The California Court of Appeal held that the state statute did not preempt the local ordinance. The court reasoned the term “incommode” is broad enough to include aesthetic concerns as the term means “to unreasonably subject the public use to inconvenience or discomfort; to unreasonably annoy, molest, embarrass, inconvenience; to unreasonably hinder, impede, or obstruct the public use.” The issue is whether state law, which grants a statewide franchise to wireless carriers and allows them to install wireless boxes in the public right of way, but prohibits wireless carriers from “incommoding” the public use of the public right-of-way, preempts San Francisco’s ability to consider aesthetics when deciding whether to issue a permit to a telecommunications company for its wireless service facilities on poles in the public right-of-way. T-Mobile v. San Francisco presented a great victory for San Francisco and local governments in California, where the California Supreme Court concluded that San Francisco’s ordinance requiring wireless telecommunications companies to abide by the City’s established aesthetic guidelines when obtaining permits to install and maintain their lines and equipment in public rights-of-way was not preempted by state law. The court concluded that it was well within the local government’s police powers to enact the ordinance and that the ordinance was therefore not preempted by state law. IMLA would like to thank our amicus author, Jeffrey Melching, for his excellent work on our behalf. To review the decision, click here. Filed February 16, 2017 (Texas Supreme Court) Pidgeon v. Mayor Turner & City of Houston No. 14-56421 / 14-56514 Pro Bono Author: Heidi Bloch The City of Houston offered benefits to same-sex spouses of City employees legally married in other jurisdictions prior to the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges (which held that the Fourteenth Amendment requires a state to license a marriage between two people of the same sex and to recognize a marriage between two people of the same sex when their marriage was lawfully licensed and performed out-of-state). Private citizens brought suit as taxpayers against the City, seeking to prevent it from doing so. A Texas district court entered an injunction against the City and ordered the City to discontinue the benefits. The City appealed, which stayed the order. While it was on appeal, the Supreme Court decided Obergefell. The City then argued the case was moot in light of the Supreme Court’s decision and the appellate court agreed, reversing the district court’s original decision and remanding it for proceedings consistent with Obergefell. The case went up to the Texas Supreme Court and the City argued a number of procedural infirmities. Ultimately the Texas Supreme Court denied the petition for review, on jurisdictional grounds. The Texas Supreme Court’s denial for review would have sent the case back to the trial court and ultimately would have resulted in its dismissal. However, the appellants filed a petition for rehearing and a number of amici came in supporting them, including a number of state legislators. The amici argue that Obergefell only held that same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry, and that it did not invalidate laws that provide more benefits to heterosexual couples. They also argue that Obergefell should not apply retroactively. The Texas Supreme Court thereafter granted the petition for rehearing. The issues on appeal are: 1. Should Obergefell be extended narrowly as the appellants claim i.e., does Obergefell extend beyond the state’s requirement to simply issue marriage licenses and thus require employers to offer the same benefits to same-sex couples as are offered to heterosexual couples 2. Does the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell retroactively apply to benefits the City of Houston provided to its employees for same-sex spouses married outside of the state? In addition to the issues related to the applicability of Obergefell, IMLA’s amicus brief argued that this case is important as it relates to local government autonomy. IMLA believes that municipalities are empowered to offer their employees whatever benefits they wish, absent some specific lawful mandate by the State. Filed February 9, 2017 (Eleventh Circuit) Ela v. Destefano No. 16-11548 Pro Bono Authors: John Baker & Sarah Shalf (2017 Amicus Service Award Recipients) Held: The Eleventh Circuit ruled that the plaintiff was not entitled to $2,500 per violation, but indicated that the decision whether to multiply damages is up to the trial judge. In this case, an officer in the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, Destefano, accessed personal information about her husband’s ex-wife that the officer accessed via the law enforcement databases. When she learned of this, the plaintiff sued under DPPA and Section 1983. Destefano admitted to illegally accessing the Plaintiff’s personal information and the jury determined she did so 101 times. Destefano never did anything with the information and did not provide it to any third parties. Thus, the jury also determined that the plaintiff suffered no actual damages from the lookups. Because the jury found she suffered no actual damages, the plaintiff sought liquidated damages for the violation. DPPA provides that upon a violation a “court may award …actual damages, but not less than liquidated damages in the amount of $2,500.00.” 18 U.S.C. § 2724 (b)(1). Based on this language, the plaintiff sought $2,500 for each of the 101 violations or $252,500 in liquidated damages. The district court ultimately found that the language was discretionary and the court could fashion a damages award as it saw fit. Thus, the court rejected the plaintiff’s argument for an award of $2,500 per violation. Instead, because Destefano suffered no actual damage, the court ordered an award of $2,500 total and only 10% of the attorney’s fees she sought. The issue on appeal was whether a plaintiff is entitled to a liquidated damages award of $2,500 per DPPA violation/per lookup. IMLA’s brief argued that the absence of a reference to a statutory award of liquidated damages “per violation” should preclude a district court from awarding these damages on a per-violation basis. Filed February 6, 2017 (Fourth Circuit) No. 16-2325 Baltimore v. Baltimore Centers for Pregnancy Pro Bono Authors: Jennifer Colyer, Janice Mac Avoy & Andrew Cashmore (2017 Amicus Service Award Recipients) The issue in this case pertains to the constitutionality of a City of Baltimore ordinance that requires Limited-Service Pregnancy Centers to post a disclaimer in its waiting room alerting potential customers that the LSPC does not provide or make referrals for abortions or certain types of birth control. The LSPC sued the City, claiming that the ordinance infringes on its First Amendment rights. Filed January 20, 2017 (Eighth Circuit) No. 16-4059 Gage County v. Dean Pro Bono Authors: Lanny Richmond (2017 Amicus Service Award Recipient) This case has a long and convoluted procedural history, including multiple trials and appeals. The remaining issues are therefore relatively narrow and involve the question of whether the County can be held liable for the Sheriff’s action as a final policymaker if the Sheriff himself was found to be not liable of any misconduct by a jury (other non-policy makers were found liable). There is also the issue of whether under Nebraska state law, the Sheriff is properly the final policymaker for the purposes of Monell liability or rather a state actor. Helen Wilson was raped and murdered in 1985. In 1989, White was convicted of the crime based on testimony and confessions from his five co-conspirators. All six served time in prison. In 2008, DNA evidence exonerated the defendants and their convictions were overturned. The six defendants then brought a Section 1983 claim against the County, Sheriff, the Deputy in charge of investigating the crime, and the police psychologist alleging due process violations. Specifically, they claimed that the investigator fabricated evidence, conducted a reckless investigation and the psychologist and the Deputy coerced confessions. They argued that the County was liable based on the Sheriff’s actions in the investigation as the final policymaker for the County. Other than the Sheriff’s actions, there seems to be no other valid argument supporting county liability as no county official other than the Sheriff and elected prosecutor were involved and one of the issues is whether either the sheriff or prosecutor is a state or county official. The district court denied the officers’ qualified immunity and the Eighth Circuit upheld that denial in a prior appeal in 2015. The district court originally dismissed all charges against the Sheriff and County, but in that same 2015 opinion, the Eighth Circuit reversed and held that the Sheriff could act as a final policymaker for the County and the jury was left to decide whether the Sheriff’s actions “caused the deprivation of rights at issue by policies which affirmatively command that it occur.” A jury returned a verdict in favor of the Plaintiffs, awarding significant damages, which could bankrupt the County. Notably, although the Sheriff was sued in his official and individual capacities the jury did not find the Sheriff liable and the court’s verdict sheet did not require the jury to distinguish between individual or official capacity in determining if the Sheriff was liable. Despite not finding the Sheriff liable, the jury nonetheless found the County liable. IMLA’s amicus brief argued that as a matter of law, a municipality cannot be bound by a final policymaker’s decision if that final policymaker’s actions did not deprive the plaintiffs of any constitutional rights. Here, specifically, the Sheriff was found not liable for any misconduct by the jury, but nonetheless, the jury had the option to still find the County liable and did so. This seems to fly in the face of the concept that respondeat superior liability does not exist in the context of Section 1983 liability. Filed November 28, 2016 (Eighth Circuit) Josephine Havlak Photographer, Inc v. Village of Twin Oaks No. Pro Bono Author: Helmut Starr For the last couple of years, Twin Oaks, a small village in St. Louis County, Missouri, has been involved in litigation with a commercial photographer over the regulation of its park vis-à-vis commercial activity and its effect on use of the park by patrons. The photographer’s claim was that the Village’s requirement of a permit and $100 fee violated her First Amendment rights. Recently, after a trial in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, the Court found in favor the Village. The Plaintiff appealed to the Eighth Circuit. The issue on appeal is whether the Town’s regulation requiring commercial photographers to file a permit and submit a fee to use the Town’s park for commercial purposes violates the First Amendment. Filed November 23, 2016 (Western District of Tennessee) Thomas v. Schoer No. 13-cv-2987 Pro Bono Author: William Brinton In late 2013, the plaintiff Thomas filed a lawsuit challenging the Tennessee outdoor advertising statute. Shortly after the release of Reed, the district court judge indicated that he believed the Tenn. Highway Beautification Act (HBA) was content-based and subject to strict scrutiny, based on the on-premise off-premise distinctions. The state was forced to attempt a showing of a compelling governmental interest. An advisory jury trial took place and the advisory jury concluded that the state had cleared its hurdle. The state takes the position that the potential withholding of 10% of its federal funding-for being out of compliance with the federal HBA-is of sufficient concern as to be a compelling government interest, among other arguments offered up. The plaintiff argues that the federal HBA is unconstitutional for the same reasons as the state act; and that there can be no compelling interest in complying with an unconstitutional federal statute. In addition, the court was under the impression that a provision of the state statute that pertained to types of government signs was a content-based regulation, despite the Walker v. Texas Division of Sons of Confederate Veterans case-decided on the same day as the Reed case-which dealt with that issue. The Walker case made it clear that government speech of the type targeted in Thomas v. Schroer was not subject to First Amendment scrutiny. The issue in this case is the constitutionality of the core provisions of the Tennessee Highway Beautification Act and the federal Highway Beautification Act. All local authority to regulate billboards could also be deemed unconstitutional. The final decision may be based upon whether the distinction between offsite signs and onsite signs is deemed a content-based distinction. Whether government signs are government speech is also an important issue in this case. Filed November 23, 2016 (Court of Appeals, Texas) AusPro Enterprises, LP v. Texas Department of Transportation No. 03-14-00375 Pro Bono Author: William Brinton This case involves the application of Reed v. Town of Gilbert to a state highway beautification act that is modeled on the Federal Act. The facts of the case and involve a company placing an election sign on its property along a State Highway. The Texas Department of Transportation informed the company that its sign was illegal under the State’s Act because all outdoor signs required a permit and although there was an exemption for political signs, they could only be displayed for a certain time-period around an election without a permit. The Texas Court of Appeals held that the Act’s outdoor advertising regulations are unconstitutional under Reed as content based regulations and struck down the entire sign law’s exemptions. The court rejected the Department’s argument that the constitutional inquiry should be limited to the election sign exemption with the sole remedy being to sever that provision from the Act if that provision was deemed unconstitutional. Because Texas’ Act mirrors the Federal Act and many other states have modeled their highway beautification acts on the Federal Act, IMLA filed an amicus brief in this case, arguing that the Reed case had nothing to do with commercial speech and therefore, the Texas Court of Appeal’s ruling went too far and should be limited to regulations pertaining to noncommercial speech. Filed November 17, 2016 (Fourth Circuit) Siena Corp. v. Mayor and City and County of Rockville No. 16-1732 Pro Bono Author: Erek Baron In this case, Siena sued the City and the individual councilmembers who voted for a zoning text amendment (ZTA), claiming violations of due process, equal protection, and state law claims. Siena had purchased property near an elementary school and obtained site plan approval to build an “EZ-Storage” self-storage facility. In response to concerns voiced by the community, the City Council enacted the ZTA, making a self-storage facility a conditional use, with the condition that it could not be within 250 feet of a school. Siena now was unable to build the self-storage facility. Siena’s essential claim is that the ZTA had no rational basis, the reasons stated were pretextual, and it was targeted at Siena (which is not a member of a protected class). The district court granted the City’s motion to dismiss or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, holding Siena had no vested property right because it never applied for a building permit, and traffic and safety concerns were a rational basis for the ZTA. The issue on appeal is the constitutionality of the City’s zoning amendment Filed October 25, 2016 (California Supreme Court) Leider v. Lewis No. S232622 Pro Bono Author: Michael Colantuono The City of Los Angeles operates a municipal zoo and in 2006, the city council voted to build a new $42 million elephant exhibit. Following that decision, the plaintiff, Leider, sued under California Code of Civil Procedure section 526a, which allows a taxpayer to obtain an injunction “restraining and preventing any illegal expenditure of, waste of, or injury to, the … funds, or other property of a … city[.]” Leider’s goal was to obtain an injunction closing the elephant exhibit. His suit alleged the defendants were engaging in illegal expenditures, waste, and injury to city property by operating the zoo in violation of Penal Code section 596.5, which outlaws abusing elephants in six specified ways, and as relevant to this case, by keeping the elephants in spaces that are allegedly too small and on ground that is too hard. After a lengthy procedural history including the grant of summary judgment in favor of the City and the Court of Appeal reversing, the plaintiff amended his complaint to allege that the defendants were violating several other animal abuse statutes. The defendants demurred on the ground that Civil Code section 3369 bars the entire action. Civil Code section 3369 provides that injunctive relief cannot be granted “to enforce a penal law, except in the case of nuisance or as otherwise provided by law.” The City contended Leider could not state a claim under section 526a for injunctive or declaratory relief because the claims challenged alleged violations of the Penal Code. Two trial judges ultimately refused to consider the City’s defense under Code 3369, ruling that law of the case precluded the argument. The trial judge found the defendants violated the California Penal Code by failing to provide an adequate exercise area because the elephants were not receiving adequate exercise time by at least 20 minutes per day and the exhibit’s substrate was too hard. The court entered injunctions under section 526a that the exhibit’s soil be rototilled and the elephants be exercised 2 hours per day. After upholding the lower court’s ruling on the law of the case issue, the Court of Appeal held that in the alternative, Civil Code section 3369, which prohibits the issuance of an injunction to enforce a penal law does not apply to taxpayer suits. The Court of Appeal therefore concluded that the trial court’s injunctions concerning soil maintenance and exercise time were proper. The issue before the California Supreme Court is whether a private citizen can seek injunctive relief against a city based on his taxpayer claims of alleged violations of a criminal statute. Filed October 17, 2016 (New York State Court of Appeals) Turturro v. City of New York No. 37657/05 Pro Bono Author: Andrew Orenstein & Bradley Wanner Held: The court found roadway design to be a propriety function like maintenance (as opposed to a governmental function) and only entitled to a qualified immunity for issues of roadway safety and that the question of whether a municipality is entitled to any immunity is for the jury to determine. This case involves the question of whether a government may be held liable for failing to prevent a motorist from speeding on a public roadway based on the municipality’s roadway design decisions. Plaintiff Anthony Turturro was injured when he attempted to bicycle across a four lane roadway, Gerritsen Avenue in Brooklyn, in the middle of the block, and was struck by a speeding car. The driver was going at least fifty-four miles per hour in a thirty-mile per hour zone and ultimately pleaded guilty to a criminal charge of felony reckless assault for his actions. Gerritsen Avenue is a straight, flat, four-lane road that is divided by double-yellow lines. Turturro and his mother commenced a negligence action against New York City and the driver. The gravamen of his claim against the City is that a wide, straight road such as Gerritsen Avenue invites illegal speeding, despite posted speed limits, and that the City should therefore have implemented certain traffic control measures on Gerritsen Avenue, known as “traffic calming” measures, that tend to reduce the average speed on a roadway. Prior to the accident, the City had conducted several traffic studies at locations on Gerritsen Avenue, but ultimately determined that additional traffic lights and other speed mitigation measures were not necessary on the street. The City did send several memos to the police requesting enforcement of the speed limit and it installed additional signage as a result of the studies. The City determined that additional speed mitigation measures were not necessary because the studies showed that Gerritsen Avenue had low vehicle volumes and normal speed levels. The Appellate Division held that the City was liable for failing to implement proper traffic calming measures. Filed October 6, 2016 (Ninth Circuit Petition for Rehearing En Banc) Diaz v. City of Anaheim No. 14-55644 Pro Bono Author: Steven Renick Officer Bennallack testified that he was patrolling a gang controlled area of the city and that he saw Diaz, the deceased, with two other people and believed that criminal activity was likely occurring. Officer Bennallack and his partner attempted to converse with the deceased, but Diaz ran from them and as the officers gave chase Diaz acted as if he were holding something in his waistband. According to the officers, Diaz ran into a fenced area despite having other options. As a result, the officers felt Diaz was luring them into a trap. When Diaz finally stopped and turned towards them (ignoring their commands to put his hands in the air, etc.) after having just thrown something over a fence, the officer believed he had a gun and fired. While the officers did not uncover a gun, they found both a cell phone and a meth pipe. The cell phone had many pictures of the deceased holding weapons, with drugs and with money. Further, the deceased had many gang tattoos and exhibited gang signs in pictures on the phone. After a six-day trial and upon two hours of deliberations, the jury found for the defendants. The court originally concluded that it would not bifurcate the trial and would allow evidence of gang membership in as evidence only for the damage aspect of the trial if the mother denied knowing her son was in a gang. As the trial proceeded, the gang evidence came in and the plaintiffs argued the evidence was prejudicial and further proved why the trial should have been bifurcated. A panel of the Ninth Circuit agreed, concluding that although decisions to bifurcate are usually left to the discretion of the trial judge, here, that discretion was abused. IMLA filed an amicus brief in support of the petition for rehearing en banc and also in support of the City’s petition for certiorari. The issues in this case are: 1. In light of this Court’s repeated admonition that appellate courts may not substitute their judgment for that of the district court concerning matters such as severance of issues at trial and admission of evidence given a district court’s superior position to assess the impact of such issues on a jury, may an appellate court find a district court abused its discretion with respect to such issues only where it identifies objective facts demonstrating that the district court acted irrationally, arbitrarily or capriciously in making its ruling? In light of this Court’s repeated recognition of the principle that jurors are presumed to follow their instructions to disregard particular testimony, given a district court’s superior position to observe the impact of the instructions and evidence on the jury, may an appellate court in a civil case substitute its judgment for that of the district court in assessing whether jurors followed instructions in a particular case and ruling on a motion for a new trial, absent identifying some objective facts showing that the district court’s decision was irrational, arbitrary or capricious? Filed August 16, 2016 (Court of Appeals, Texas) Carruth v. City of Plano No. 05-16-00573-CV Pro Bono Author: Scott Houston The issue in this case is whether a comprehensive plan be subject to referendum. The City of Plano adopted an ordinance which enacts the City’s Comprehensive Plan and repeals the prior comprehensive plan. The City’s process in adopting the Comprehensive Plan included public hearings, the taking of testimony, analysis of demographics and other highly specialized and complex methodological assessment of information, review by the zoning commission, consideration of input provided by thousands of members of the public, and consideration by the city council, as well as many other deliberative and analytical activities. The City’s planning and zoning commission met over eighty times in six years to consider the Comprehensive Plan. The commission constantly made modifications throughout the process, taking public input into account. It did so legislatively, in accordance with state law and its zoning ordinance. Approximately one month after the ordinance was adopted, thus enacting the Comprehensive Plan, the plaintiffs submitted a petition to the City Secretary. The petition contained 4,000 signatures requesting the Comprehensive Plan be submitted to a city-wide referendum based on the City’s Home Rule Charter purportedly requiring a referendum upon the submission of a petition from the public. The city council determined that the Comprehensive Plan was not subject to a referendum vote. When the city council did not put the Comprehensive Plan to a vote, the plaintiffs filed suit against the city and city council seeking a declaratory judgment that the ordinance enacting the Comprehensive Plan was invalid as well as a mandamus seeking to compel the city council to submit the Comprehensive Plan to a vote. IMLA believes that most states limit applicability of referenda to legislative actions while exempting planning actions and in many instances zoning actions as well and joined the Texas Municipal League’s amicus brief in this case. Filed June 27, 2016 (Ninth Circuit, petition for rehearing en banc) Flores v. San Gabriel No. 14-56421 / 14-56514 Pro Bono Author: Arthur Hartinger The City provides a flexible benefits plan to its employees, under which the City provides a certain amount of money to each employee for the purchase of medical, vision, and dental benefits. All employees are required to use a portion of these funds to purchase vision and dental benefits. But an employee may decline to use the remainder of these funds to purchase medical benefits if the employee has proof of alternate coverage (such as through a spouse). If that is the case, the employee may receive the unused portion of the benefits as a cash payment added to the employee’s regular paycheck (“cash-in-lieu” payments). This payment appears as a designated line item on the employee’s paycheck. At some time prior to 2003, the City determined that its cash-in-lieu of benefits payments were “benefits” that were excluded from its calculation of a recipient’s regular rate of pay. Thus, these cash-in-lieu payments were not incorporated into the City’s calculations for the purposes of overtime compensation. The plaintiffs, police officers with the City, brought suit under the Fair Labor Standards Act, alleging that the failure to include the cash-in-lieu of benefits payments as a part of their regular rate of pay resulted in a lower amount of overtime compensation. The plaintiffs claimed the violation was “willful,” entitling them to a three-year statute of limitations instead of two and also sought liquidated damages. The Ninth Circuit ruled that the City must include the cash-in-lieu of benefits payments in the employees’ regular rate of pay for the purposes of determining overtime. Because the City did not do so, the court held that it violated the FLSA. The Court found the cash-in-lieu payments did not fall under the exemption provided in section 207(e)(2) – such as vacation or holiday payments, or payments for travel or other expense reimbursements – and held that it is not necessary for payments to be tied to the actual hours worked or the amount of service provided to be considered compensation for purposes of calculating the regular rate. The court further concluded the payments did not fall within the exclusion under section 207(e)(4) for “contributions irrevocably made by an employer to a trustee or third person pursuant to a bona fide plan for providing … health insurance or similar benefits for employee.” The Court reversed the District Court’s rulings that the statute of limitations was limited to two years, and that the officers were not entitled to liquidated damages. The Ninth Circuit determined that the violation was willful because the City did not proffer any evidence to demonstrate that it had taken affirmative steps to ensure its initial designation of these payments as “benefits” (as opposed to compensation) complied with the FLSA and therefore the City did not act in good-faith. The Ninth Circuit ultimately voted to deny the petition for panel rehearing and the City petitioned for certiorari. The issue is whether cash-in-lieu of benefits payments are properly excluded from the regular rate of pay under the FLSA pursuant to § 207(e)(2) because they are not compensation for hours worked. Filed June 21, 2016 (Eleventh Circuit) Walker v. Calhoun No. 16-10521 Pro Bono Author: Rusi Patel This case involves a trending issue that creates significant concern for cities and counties around the country. Essentially the ACLU and DOJ describe the issue as “criminalizing poverty” and it arises from the increased use of fines and fees in the justice system. In this case, the issue can be tied to a system found in most states that allows people to pay money as “bail,” which they then forfeit rather than appear in court. The “bail” converts to the fine and court costs excusing the person from showing up for a trial. In this case, plaintiff Maurice Walker was arrested on Thursday, September 3, 2015, after a police officer found him stumbling on Georgia state road- a five-lane roadway – and determined that plaintiff appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. Plaintiff was placed in custody for a suspected violation of Georgia law, and transported to the county jail for booking and processing. Immediately following the Labor Day holiday, plaintiff filed a lawsuit on Tuesday, September 8, 2015, claiming his detention without a bail hearing violated his constitutional rights. He was released from custody on his own recognizance on Wednesday, September 9, 2015, by agreement of counsel. It is not clear why a hearing did not take place on Tuesday September 8 and bail considered at that time. At the time, the secured bail schedule, which was authorized by the Georgia General Assembly, provided a process by which individuals who were still in custody (i.e., had not posted bail yet) would be brought before a municipal court judge within seventy-two hours of their arrest to determine whether the person qualifies as an indigent person (pursuant to federal poverty guidelines). If the person was determined to be indigent, then the person would be released on a recognizance bond. Due to the Labor Day holiday, the plaintiff was incarcerated for longer than seventy-two hours, but that was apparently not a violation of this particular bail schedule. The bail schedule has since been amended to a forty-eight-hour period (however, the City’s argument that the suit is moot as a result of the amendment was rejected). In his lawsuit, the plaintiff brought a class action, claiming that he was wrongfully detained as a result of the City’s bail practice and in violation of the Due Process and Equal Protection clauses of the Constitution. The district court granted the plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction finding that the plaintiff was likely to succeed on the merits that the City was liable for the bail process. IMLA’s amicus brief makes it clear that the organization does not condone the practice of jailing individuals based on indigency. And notwithstanding the facts of this case, the issue here is that the bail procedure that was followed by the municipal court is based on state law and the municipality has no control over the procedure. The amicus brief that IMLA joined, drafted by Georgia Municipal Association, addressed the following issues: (1) Whether the District Court erred in determining that the City of Calhoun possesses considerable control over the Municipal Court of Calhoun, specifically on issues of bail and bond, which are traditionally reserved to the judge and whether the exercise of such powers was derived from municipal policy or by state law; and (2) Whether a municipality can be held liable under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 for its municipal court having a policy of wrongfully incarcerating indigent defendants when the relevant decisions are made by municipal judges acting in their judicial capacities under direction of state law. Thus, regardless of the facts of this case and whether the municipal court’s time-frame for holding indigency hearings was constitutional, IMLA believes that the City is not the correct defendant for this lawsuit. Filed May 26, 2016 (Ninth Circuit, petition for rehearing) Lowry v. San Diego No. 13-56141 Pro Bono Author: Steven Renick The appellant, Lowry, went out after work drinking with her friends. After consuming five vodka drinks, she decided to go back to her office to sleep on the couch there. At approximately 11:00 pm, she got up to use the bathroom and unbeknownst to her, triggered the building’s burglary alarm. Several San Diego police officers responded within minutes to the alarm, including an officer accompanied by a police service dog. Upon arriving and inspecting the building, the officers noticed that the door leading to Suite 201 was propped open. There were no signs of forced entry and the suite was dark. Because the officers could not see inside the office suite, they did not know if anyone was inside. Before entering the suite where Lowry was sleeping, the police officers loudly gave the warning: “This is the San Diego Police Department! Come out now or I’m sending in a police dog! You may be bitten!” The officers then waited between thirty and sixty seconds and after receiving no reply, repeated the same warning once or twice more. When there was again no response, the officer let the dog off his leash and entered the suite, following closely behind the service dog. The officers entered the office where Lowry was sleeping. Once there, one of the officers shone his flashlight against the wall and spotted someone under a blanket on the couch. At that moment, the dog jumped on top of Lowry. The two struggled briefly before the officer called the dog back and the dog responded immediately. After confirming that Lowry was an employee for the office building, the officers drove her to the hospital where she received medical care. As a result of the dog bite, Lowry had a large gash on her lip that required three stitches. Relevant to this incident, the San Diego Police Department trains its police dogs to enter a building, find a person and bite them and hold the bite until the police officer calls the dog off. The dogs are not trained to differentiate between “a young child asleep or . . . a burglar standing in a kitchen with a butcher knife.” Whether to conduct the search on leash or off leash is generally left to the discretion of the officer, however, the SDPD’s manual provides that residential searches (as opposed to commercial ones) should normally be conducted on leash. Lowry sued the City of San Diego, alleging that the City’s policy of training the police dogs to “bite and hold” violated her Fourth Amendment rights. The district court granted the City’s motion for summary judgment, finding that the officer did not violate Lowry’s constitutional rights under the Graham analysis. The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that a reasonable jury could find that the force used was excessive and because the City conceded that the use of force involved was in conformance with its policy, summary judgment in favor of the City was therefore inappropriate. In determining whether summary judgment was appropriate, the Ninth Circuit applied the Graham test to the facts in order to determine if there was a constitutional deprivation. In terms of the nature and quality of the intrusion, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that although Lowry’s injuries were relatively minor, the district court erred on this factor by focusing solely on the amount of force used against her. Instead, the Ninth Circuit indicated that the court must look not only at the amount of force, but the type of force used and the potential harm it could cause. Because dog bites can be fatal, the court reasoned that the intrusion on Lowry’s Fourth Amendment rights were severe. The Ninth Circuit then brushed aside the City’s countervailing interests under Graham, concluding that a jury could find that any belief that Lowry posed an immediate threat to the officers when they released the dog was unjustified. On this point, the Ninth Circuit analyzed the facts from Lowry’s perspective, instead of from the officers’ perspective (a point the dissent emphasizes) – i.e., that she was fast asleep on the couch, did not engage in threatening behavior, or do anything other than lay quietly. In terms of the severity of the crime, the Ninth Circuit concluded that although burglary can be dangerous, it is not an inherently dangerous crime. Although the district court concluded that the fact that the officers issued a warning weighed in favor of finding the use of force was reasonable, the Ninth Circuit concluded that this factor is accorded little weight because Lowry did not hear these warnings (again looking at the facts from Lowry’s perspective). The Ninth Circuit also concluded that it would have been less intrusive to keep the dog on leash and therefore the fact that the dog was off leash militated against a finding that the force was reasonable. Turning to the City’s liability, the Ninth Circuit concluded that the City was liable under Monell due to its “bite and hold” policy (which was actually a custom / practice) as that policy was the “moving force” behind Lowry’s injury. The dissent criticizes the majority opinion for failing to evaluate the facts from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene and instead focusing on the facts from Lowry’s perspective. The dissent also notes that the Ninth Circuit has “never held that the use of a police dog is categorically ‘severe’. . .” Filed April 8th, 2016 (Ninth Circuit Cout of Appeals) Kirola v. City and County of San Francisco No. 14-17521 Pro Bono Author: Timothy Coates & Marc Poster Kirola, a mobility-impaired individual, brought a class action lawsuit against San Francisco, alleging the City discriminates against mobility-impaired persons by failing to eliminate access barriers or ensure accessibility to the City’s libraries, swimming pools, and parks, and to public rights-of-way such as sidewalks, curb ramps, and crosswalks in violation of the ADA and related state civil rights statues. The district court certified the class and the case proceeded to a bench trial. At trial, the City presented detailed evidence of its comprehensive efforts to ensure that disabled persons have meaningful access to its services and programs consistent with the ADA and state law through both proactive and reactive measures – i.e., undertaking significant accessibility planning across numerous City departments and proactively seeking input from the disability community in the course of such planning, while also responding to requests and complaints from the public through a grievance procedure. In contrast, Kirola testified only to a very limited number of access barriers she encountered within the City including: a limited number of cracked sidewalks or missing curb ramps (that did not necessarily require her to alter her route); encountering step stools in aisles at the public library allegedly impeding her access to the facility; a steep slope at the entrance to a city park, making it difficult for her to enter that particular park; and that some of the city’s pools did not have accessibility features, though she did testify that she regularly swam at multiple city pools, including the one closest to her house. Following trial, the court held that Kirola lacked constitutional standing to pursue her claims and that her claims lacked substantive merit. Regarding the merits, the court held that the ADA does not require that each particular facility be fully accessible, rather, the court noted, the program/service must be reviewed in its entirety to determine if it is accessible. Here, the few sidewalks and missing curb ramps did not render the entire network of city streets / sidewalks inaccessible to mobility-impaired individuals and the court held that the plaintiff therefore could not show that the class members had been deprived of program access to the city’s public rights-of-way. Similarly, with regard to the city’s libraries, aquatic programs and parks, the court noted that each service needed to be viewed in its entirety and the fact that, for example, three city swimming pools were inaccessible did not render the entire city aquatics program inaccessible where there were six alternative city pools with accessible features. Kirola has appealed, asserting: (1) she had standing to pursue class claims; (2) she was entitled to injunctive relief because the City departed from ADA guidelines in a few isolated instances when constructing or altering public facilities; and (3) the District Court erred when it determined that San Francisco provides meaningful access to the programs, services and activities offered by its parks, swimming pools, and public rights-of-way when it reviewed those programs in their entirety. IMLA joined the California League of Cities’ amicus brief that focused solely on the merits and not on the standing issue. Filed March 28, 2016 (Ninth Circuit) Hawaii Wildlife Fund et al. v. County of Maui No. Pro Bono Author: Shawn Haggerty & Andre Monette The issue in this case is whether, under the “conduit theory” of liability, the Clean Water Act prohibits the release of pollutants into ground water that eventually migrates to navigable waters. The Clean Water Act (CWA) does not apply to discharges of groundwater. This case, however, appears to expand the coverage of the Act significantly by using this novel “conduit” theory of liability. Under the conduit theory, according to the district court, any release of pollutants into groundwater that migrates to hydrologically connected navigable waters violates the CWA. This theory has far reaching implications, potentially requiring an National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit for any source – including underground storage tanks, surface impoundments, landfills, and pipelines to name a few – that may release pollutants to groundwater that is hydrologically connected to navigable waters. In this case, the County of Maui operates a wastewater treatment facility that filters and disinfects the sewage it receives then releases the wastewater into four onsite injection wells. The injection wells are long pipes into which the wastewater is pumped. The wastewater then travels approximately 200 feet underground into a shallow groundwater aquifer beneath the facility. It is undisputed that wastewater from these wells eventually makes its way into the Pacific Ocean and that the County was aware of that fact for some time. Specifically, a 2013 tracer study, conducted on behalf of the EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Hawaii Department of Health, confirmed that treated wastewater from the County’s UIC wells reached the ocean roughly half a mile south of the treatment plant. On average, it took approximately 10 months for groundwater containing County wastewater to enter the ocean along approximately 2 miles of coastline. The Clean Water Act prohibits the “discharge of any pollutant” unless certain provisions of the Clean Water Act are complied with. See 33 U.S.C. § 1311(a). The Clean Water Act defines “discharge of a pollutant” as “any addition of any pollutant to navigable waters from any point source.” 33 U.S.C. § 1362(12). The Clean Water Act defines “point source” as any “discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated agriculture.” 33 U.S.C. § 1362(14). The Clean Water Act allows discharges of pollutants when an NPDES permit is obtained and complied with. See 33 U.S.C. § 1342. Citizen groups sued, claiming the County needed a NPDES permit for its injection of treated wastewater into the underground injection control wells. The County did eventually apply for a NPDES permit and sought a stay of the proceedings as a result, but the district court denied that motion for a stay. On the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, the district court held that the County violated the Clean Water Act based on a novel “conduit” theory of liability – i.e., the treated wastewater reached navigable waters without a NPDES permit. Under the conduit theory the court held that the unconfined groundwater acted as a “conduit,” conveying pollutants from the point source – the permitted UIC wells – to the ocean. The district court explained: This does not mean that groundwater is always and necessarily itself part of the navigable waters of the United States. See 66 FR 2960-01 at 3017 (“EPA does not argue that the CWA directly regulates ground water quality.”); Definition of “Waters of the United States” Under the Clean Water Act, 79 FR 22188-01, 22218 (Apr. 21, 2014) (“The agencies have never interpreted ‘waters of the United States’ to include groundwater.”). An unpermitted discharge into the groundwater, without more, does not constitute a violation of the Clean Water Act. It is the migration of the pollutant into navigable-in-fact water that brings groundwater under the Clean Water Act. Filed March 7th, 2016 (North Carolina Supreme Court) Asheville v. State of North Carolina No. 391PA15 Pro Bono Author: Allegra Collins Held: The North Carolina Supreme Court held that the legislation violated the North Carolina Constitution and reversed the intermediate court’s decision upholding the law. The court did not address the takings issue. Through legislation, North Carolina has empowered municipalities to own and operate public water systems and public sewer systems and to serve customers both inside and outside their corporate limits. In 2013, the state passed legislation that required the city of Asheville to cede ownership and control of its public water system to another political subdivision (the “Transfer Provision”). Though the legislation did not expressly reference Asheville by name, the only public water system which met all of the legislation’s criteria for a forced transfer was the Asheville water system. Asheville sued the state, challenging the legality of the legislation and the trial court enjoined the legislation, concluding it violated the North Carolina Constitution on three separate grounds, as follows: “(1) the Transfer Provision is a ‘local law’ relating to ‘health’, ‘sanitation,’ and ‘non-navigable streams,’ in violation of Article II, Section 24; (2) the Transfer Provision violates Asheville’s rights under the ‘law of the land” clause found in Article I, Section 19; and (3) the Transfer Provision constitutes an unlawful taking of Asheville’s property without just compensation in violation of Article I, Section 19 and 35.” The appeals court reversed. The appeals court held that the General Assembly’s power includes the authority to organize and regulate the powers of the State’s municipalities and political subdivisions. On the takings issue, the court reasoned that its holding is consistent with Supreme Court precedent that there is no constitutional prohibition against a state withdrawing from a municipality the authority to own and operate a public water system. For this proposition the Court cited City of Pittsburgh v. Hunter 207 U. S. 161 (1907) and Trenton v. New Jersey 262 U.S. 182 (1923). IMLA’s brief will argue that the Supreme Court precedent relied on by the appeals court did not extend the takings analysis to property that a local government holds in a proprietary capacity and that such property is protected by the Fifth Amendment and may not be taken without just compensation. Filed November 20, 2015 (California Court of Appeal) Lamar Central Outdoor, LLC v. City of Los Angeles No. BS142238 Pro Bono Author: John Baker Held: The court concluded that neither the First Amendment nor the California Constitution prohibit Los Angeles’ ban on off-site signs, nor did the distinction between “billboards”/off-site signs and on-site signs amounts to an improper content based distinction. The issues in this case are: (1) whether an ordinance that distinguishes between billboards/off-premise advertising and on premise advertising is content based for the purposes of interpreting the speech clause in the California Constitution; and (2) what level of scrutiny should apply (strict or intermediate). The facts of this case involve an outdoor advertising company that sued the city of Los Angeles when the city denied its permit applications to convert some of its existing offsite commercial signs to digital signs. The city denied the applications because the city had in place a commercial offsite billboard ban. However, the city exempts ideological, political, and other non-commercial messages from the offsite sign ban. Additionally, the city has authorized certain offsite commercial signs through special-use-district permits and some other commercial offsite signs are authorized because the permits were issued prior to the ban’s enactment. According to the city, the purpose of the ban is to promote public safety and welfare by providing “reasonable protection to the visual environment by controlling the [] location of signs…” and to ensure that the signs will not “interfere with traffic safety or otherwise endanger public safety.” The billboard company brought suit against the city, claiming the ban is unconstitutional under California’s Constitution. The court concluded that the free speech clause under the California Constitution is broad and provides greater speech protection than the U.S. Constitution. The court held that the ban was unconstitutional under the California Constitution. In so holding, it first concluded that the ban was not content neutral both because it distinguished between commercial and non-commercial speech and because it distinguished between on-site versus off-site locations. The court then held that the ban could not withstand the court’s application of strict scrutiny because the city did not show it was narrowly tailored and necessary to achieve the city’s interest in ensuring traffic safety and preserving visual aesthetics. The court noted that even if intermediate scrutiny applied (which is what the city argued should apply), the ban would still not pass constitutional muster. Filed October 20, 2015 (Ohio Supreme Court) Newegg & Crutchfield v. Testa No. Pro Bono Author: Eric Cintron Newegg and Crutchfield are out of state retailers that each sell over $500,000 worth of goods in Ohio annually, but have no other physical presence in Ohio. The Ohio Commercial Activity Tax (CAT) applies to anyone with a “bright-line presence” in the state, which includes anyone with taxable gross receipts of at least $500,000 annually. The highest body to decide this issue so far is the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals. The case is currently being appealed to the Ohio Supreme Court. Both companies argued that the CAT’s application to them was unconstitutional under Quill v. North Dakota because they did not have a “substantial nexus” to the state. The Tax Board refused to rule on CAT’s constitutionality, finding that it did not have the authority to resolve constitutional challenges and the appellate court would need to do so. The Tax Board then concluded that the CAT did apply to Newegg and Crutchfield per the Ohio Legislature by virtue of their “bright line presence” in the state – i.e., their sale of at least $500,000 annually. Per Quill v. North Dakota (1992), out-of-state sellers must have a “substantial nexus” i.e. a physical presence in a state to be required to collect a use tax. CAT is viewed by Ohio as a tax on the seller for the privilege of doing business (akin to a corporate income tax or business privilege tax) rather than a transactional sales tax on the buyer. Newegg and Crutchfield argue that Quill’s physical presence requirement should apply to CAT because it operates similar to a use tax. The issue in this case is whether Ohio’s CAT tax is unconstitutional per Quill? Filed October 8, 2015 (Oregon Supreme Court) Johnson v. Gibson No. 1335087 Pro Bono Author: Thomas McPherson The plaintiff in this case suffered an injury while running in a public park when she fell into a hole created by an uncovered sprinkler head. The individual defendants, who are employees for the City of Portland, Oregon, were responsible for the hole. The plaintiff filed suit for negligence against the individual defendants. The individual defendants claimed immunity under the Oregon Public Use of Lands Act (the “Act”), which grants immunity to “owners” of land who make their property available to the public for recreational purposes. The plaintiff argued that the defendants were not “owners” under the Act, and in any case, if they were, such a finding would violate the Oregon Constitution’s Remedy Clause. . The district court held that the individual defendants were “owners” and granted them immunity. The district court also found that the Act, as applied to both public and private landowners, including as applied to the defendant employees, did not violate the Remedy Clause of the Oregon Constitution and dismissed the plaintiff’s claim. The plaintiff appealed to the Ninth Circuit and after briefing on the issues, the Ninth Circuit certified two questions to the Oregon Supreme Court, which is where the case is currently pending. The issues certified to the Oregon Supreme Court are the following: (1) Whether individual employees responsible for repairing, maintaining, and operating improvements on City-owned recreational land made available to the public for recreational purposes can each properly be considered an “owner” of land, as that term is defined in the Oregon Public Use of Lands Act, and therefore immune from actions against them for their own negligence?; and (2) If employees can be considered to be an “owner” under the Public Use of Lands Act, does the Act, as applied to them, nonetheless violate the Remedy Clause of the Oregon Constitution, Art. I, § 10, if by doing so, their statutory immunity eliminates the only remedy that a Plaintiff has for her injuries and a remedy enjoyed under Oregon law as it existed at the time of the drafting of Oregon’s Constitution in 1857? Filed October 7, 2015 (Ninth Circuit) Kamakeeaina v. City and County of Honolulu, et. al No. 14-16042 Pro Bono Author: Adam Rosenberg & Dan Lloyd In this case, the police officers were called to an apartment building for a domestic disturbance and they found the victim lying on the floor bleeding outside the apartment. She and another witness indicated that the assailant was inside the apartment and that he was suicidal and had a knife. The officers entered the apartment with their weapons drawn and found the plaintiff, who was visibly intoxicated on the balcony, where he had barricaded himself. Although he was intoxicated, he was coherent and he responded to the police officers’ questions throughout the encounter. Other than two brief threats that he would jump from the balcony if the officers drew near, the plaintiff made no other suicidal threats to the officers. The police officers later testified that they believed he made those threats in order to evade arrest. After an hour, the plaintiff surrendered without incident. The Honolulu police department has a policy requiring that “every arrestee is asked by CRD personnel whether they are sick, injured, taking prescription medication, or have to go to the hospital for any reason.” The officers indicated that they twice asked if the plaintiff required medical attention, but that he did not indicate that he needed any. The plaintiff disputed that they asked him that. The plaintiff did not attempt suicide while in custody and there was no indication that he was denied treatment at any time for any medical needs. The district court held that the police officers were entitled to summary judgment as the plaintiff could not establish that they had acted with deliberate indifference toward a serious medical need. While the court found that the risk of suicide is a serious medical need, it concluded that the officers were not subjectively deliberately indifferent to that need. The court concluded that the police officers were not subjectively aware that the plaintiff was at a serious risk of suicide because they had attributed his statements that he was going to jump from the balcony as an attempt to evade arrest. The court also concluded that the plaintiff suffered no actual harm by the defendant’s failure to provide him with medical attention. The issue on appeal is whether the police officers acted with deliberate indifference to the arrestee’s medical needs by failing to provide him with medical attention based on his threats to jump off the apartment’s balcony. IMLA’s amicus brief will argue, among other things, that if the Ninth Circuit overrules the district court, the rule would put an immense burden on law enforcement to essentially diagnose psychological conditions in the field and such a requirement will detract from their primary law enforcement duties. Filed July 20, 2015 (Third Circuit Court of Appeals) Bruni v. City of Pittsburgh No. 15-1755 Pro Bono Author: Erek Barron At issue in this case is the validity of the City of Pittsburgh’s buffer zone ordinance in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in McCullen v. Coakley. The ordinance in question states: [n]o person or persons shall knowingly congregate, patrol, picket or demonstrate in a zone extending fifteen (15) feet from any entrance to the hospital and or health care facility. This section shall not apply to police and public safety officers, fire and rescue personnel, or other emergency workers in the course of their official business, or to authorized security personnel employees or agents of the hospital, medical office or clinic engaged in assisting patients and other persons to enter or exit the hospital, medical office, or clinic. Presently, two “buffer zones” are delineated and enforced in the City of Pittsburgh, both of which are located outside of reproductive health care facilities where abortions are performed. The plaintiffs in this case regularly engage in anti-abortion activities outside of the buffer zone at a downtown Planned Parenthood. Like the petitioners in McCullen, their advocacy takes the form of “sidewalk counseling,” which means they seek to have “quiet conversations and offer assistance and information to abortion-minded women by providing them pamphlets describing local pregnancy resources…” The City of Pittsburgh reads the Ordinance to prohibit sidewalk counseling, as a form of “picketing” or “demonstrating,” within the demarcated buffer zones. On a motion for preliminary injunction, the plaintiffs argued that the ordinance was invalid under the First Amendment in light of McCullen. The district court held that the plaintiffs were not likely to succeed on the merits and the plaintiffs are appealing that decision to the Third Circuit. Filed June 24, 2015 (First Circuit Court of Appeals) Lopez v. City of Lawrence, et. al No. 14-1952 Pro Bono Author: Christopher Petrini This case involves a disparate impact claim of discrimination brought by current and former police officers employed by various Massachusetts cities. The police officers, all Hispanic or African-American, claim that the cities’ reliance on a civil service examination in making promotion decisions to the level of sergeant resulted in a disparate impact on them based on their race or ethnicity in violation of Title VII. The examination was developed by the state. Because many of the cities and towns being sued did not have a large set of data to review – i.e., not that many candidates applied for the position of sergeant in any given year from a particular municipality, the police officers argued that they should be allowed to aggregate the data across different cities in Massachusetts and that they should also be allowed to aggregate data from different years for the same city in order to make out their claim of a disparate impact discrimination. At issue in this case is how statistics may be used in a disparate impact case, including whether plaintiffs may aggregate data – either across time or across jurisdictions/employers – in order to prove a prima facie case of discrimination in a disparate impact case. Filed May 20, 2015 (Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals) Direct Marketing Association v. Brohl No. 12-1175 Pro Bono Author: Lisa Soronen & Ron Parsons Colorado enacted legislation requiring out-of-state merchants to summarize their total annual sales to each Colorado customer and report that information to the Colorado Department of Revenue. Colorado passed this legislation in order to attempt to collect the unpaid taxes that these consumers owed the state, but that as studies have shown, the vast majority fail to pay on their own. The district court held that Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, 504 U.S. 298 (1992) applied to the Colorado legislation and ruled that the state’s notice and reporting requirements were discriminatory and violated the Dormant Commerce Clause. The question in this case is whether the Dormant Commerce Clause requires not only exempting out-of-state retailers from collecting sales tax on sales to the state’s consumers, but also exempting those out-of-state retailers from providing information necessary for states to enforce and collect sales taxes owed by their residents. Filed November 13, 2014 (Eleventh Circuit En Banc) Securities and Exchange Commission v. City of Miami & Bordeaux No. 14-10363 Pro Bono Author: Jay Solowsky The SEC instituted a civil enforcement action against the city of Miami and various financial officials, including the Budget Director for the city, alleging that they committed securities fraud through both misrepresentations and omissions in their financial documents. The city and the Budget Director argued that the Budget Director was entitled to qualified immunity as a matter of law because he was acting within the scope of his duties when the alleged misconduct occurred. The Eleventh Circuit upheld the district court’s denial of qualified immunity for the Budget Director, reasoning that the doctrine of qualified immunity did not bar the SEC’s action seeking civil penalties against the Budget Director (as opposed to where a plaintiff seeks damages). The Budget Director submitted a motion for rehearing en banc to the full panel for the Eleventh Circuit and IMLA submitted an amicus brief supporting that appeal. The full panel denied the motion for rehearing and the Budget Director petitioned the Supreme Court for certiorari. IMLA also submitted an amicus brief in support of the petition for certiorari. Filed May 15, 2015 (Tennessee Supreme Court) Metropolitan Government of Nashville v. The Board of Zoning Appeals No. 12910II Pro Bono Author: Travis Hawkins Held: The Tennessee Supreme Court held that Nashville had standing to challenge the board of zoning appeals’ decision because the city could be “aggrieved” by the actions of the zoning board. The Tennessee Supreme Court will decide whether a municipal government has standing to seek certiorari of its own board of zoning appeals decision. In this case, a company that builds and manages billboards applied for permits to convert two static billboards to digital billboards. The zoning administrator denied the applications and the company thereafter appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA), which reversed the zoning administrator’s decision and granted the permits. Nashville filed a petition for writ of certiorari to the trial court, seeking review of the BZA decision and the trial court dismissed the petition on the grounds that Nashville did not have standing to bring the proceeding. The Court of Appeals of Tennessee reversed the trial court’s determination, finding that Nashville did have standing to seek certiorari of the BZA because Nashville was an aggrieved party due to the fact that the BZA’s decision interferes with its ability to fulfill its obligations under the local zoning code. The Court of Appeals also rejected the company’s argument that Nashville could not sue its own BZA because it would be in effect suing itself. Filed May 27, 2015 (Tennessee Supreme Court) The Tennessean v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville No. M2014–00524 Pro Bono Author: Devin Lyon The issue in this case is whether a newspaper is entitled to everything a criminal defendant would get through the criminal discovery process pursuant to a request to access public records. Pursuant to the Tennessee Public Records Act (TPRA), various media outlets requested access to records accumulated and maintained by the Nashville police department in the course of its investigation and prosecution of an alleged rape at Vanderbilt University. The police department refused the request due to the fact that the investigation and prosecution were ongoing. The media outlets sued claiming they were entitled to the records under the TPRA. The city argued that the records were exempt from disclosure under the TPRA due to a rule of criminal procedure which does not authorize discovery of documents made by law enforcement in connection with an ongoing investigation. The appeals court agreed, concluding that in light of the pending investigation and prosecution, access to the records under the TPRA was not required. Filed September 28, 2015 (California Supreme Court) Ardon v. City of Los Angeles No. S223876 Pro Bono Author: Kira L. Klatchko In this case, an attorney involved in adverse litigation with the city made a public records request as a part of that litigation. As part of a larger response to that public records request, a city employee inadvertently disclosed three records that were protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product doctrine. The city employee who disclosed the records was not the holder of either privilege and the respective holders of the privileges had not authorized the employee to disclose the records, or delegated to the employee authority to decide whether to waive the privileges. The Court of Appeal, relied on a general provision in the Public Records Act that a public entity may not pick and choose who has access to public records and concluded that the disclosure of the records waived the privilege. The issue in this case is whether inadvertent disclosure of privileged documents waives the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine if the disclosure is made pursuant to the Public Records Act as opposed to a discovery request. Filed July 29, 2015 (California Supreme Court) Lynch v. California Coastal Commission No. S221980 Pro Bono Author: Jennifer Henning The issue in this case is whether landowners can irrevocably commit to non-fee permit conditions in writing, but then later renege and claim that they only agreed to the conditions under protest or duress. This case arises from two beachfront homeowners’ attempt to challenge certain coastal development permit conditions. The homeowners own bluff-top homes in Encinitas, California. Each property has a fairly flat area that is developed and then a steep bluff face that cascades down to the ocean. The homeowners sought to remove their then-existing shoreline protection and build a new 100-foot long, 29 foot high seawall and to rebuild the lower portion of a private access stairway that tied into the seawall. While their permits were pending, much of the existing seawall and stairway collapsed during a storm. The California Coastal Commission (CCC) approved a permit amendment to allow demolition and reconstruction of the seawall, however, as a part of the permit, the CCC implemented various special conditions, including the preclusion of the reconstruction of the lower section of the stairway and the CCC limited the duration of the permit itself to 20 years. The CCC argued that the special conditions were necessary given the uncertainty about how rapidly the sea level will rise. Both homeowners signed a Notice of Intent to Issue a Permit and in so signing, they agreed to all of the conditions in the permit, including the special conditions. The homeowners then recorded the deed restrictions after signing them and proceeded to file a writ of mandate in superior court challenging the special permit conditions. The Court of Appeal found that the homeowners had waived their right to challenge the permit conditions when they signed and recorded the deed restrictions, thereby signifying their agreement to those permit conditions. Filed April 13, 2015 (Texas Supreme Court) City of Dallas v. Albert, et. al No. 13-0940 Pro Bono Author: Eric Farrar Status: The Texas Supreme Court denied the motion for rehearing. The questions presented to the Texas Supreme Court in this case are: (1) Whether multiple, unrelated documents and ordinances drafted and enacted at different times and for different purposes can be pieced together to create a written binding contract; (2) whether the city intended to create a contract by enacting or adopting these multiple documents alleged to be a contract; and (3) whether multiple documents and ordinances alleged to be a written contract contain the essential terms necessary to form a contract. In this case, former police officers and firefighters brought suit against the city of Dallas, claiming it breached its contract with them regarding pay increases they claim were due to them. In the 1970s, the city enacted an ordinance regarding a salary increase for police officers and firefighters. It was ambiguous about whether the ordinance was intended to be a one-time salary adjustment or to apply to all future salary increases. The employees argued that the ordinance became a non-negotiable written term in each of their contracts with the city and that the city breached its contract to them by failing to provide regular salary increases in accordance with the terms of the ordinance. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth District of Texas at Dallas found that a contract existed between the city and these employees. In order to find a contract, the court combined the ordinance in question, other ordinances, various referenda, the city charter, and city code, all of which were drafted and adopted at different times for different purposes. The court held that a contract exists if it is in writing, states the essential terms of the agreement, provides for goods or services to the local government entity and is properly executed on behalf of the local government entity. The Court of Appeals found all these factors existed here. The Supreme Court of Texas denied the city’s request to hear the case on appeal. The city of Dallas is submitting a motion to the Texas Supreme Court for rehearing and IMLA will submit an amicus brief in support of that motion. Filed January 12, 2015 (Illinois Supreme Court) Heaton v. Quinn No. 118585 Pro Bono Author: Timothy Bishop This case concerns the Illinois legislature’s effort to reform the State’s public pension obligations. The Illinois Constitution contains a pension protection clause, providing that “any pension or retirement system of the State…shall not be diminished or impaired.” As a result of the State’s dire financial situation, the legislature made modest reductions to the State’s public employee pension obligations. The statute making those changes was struck down by the lower court and that decision was appealed to the Illinois Supreme Court. The issue before the Illinois Supreme Court is whether the statute making modifying the pension protection clause is constitutional. The Illinois Supreme Court held that it was not constitutional given the state constitution’s pension protection clause. Filed November 28, 2014 (State of New York Court of Appeals) City of Buffalo v. Margerum No. CA 12-01540 Pro Bono Author: Prathima Reddy Held: New York’s State Human Rights Statute parallels Title VII and the Supreme Court’s holding in Ricci v. Destefano applies to municipal employer’s voluntary compliance efforts. This case is an important test case for municipalities because it represents the first decision that has directly applied “strong basis in evidence” standard for disparate impacts, established in Ricci v. Destefano, to a municipal employer’s voluntary efforts to comply with the requirements of Title VII. Many years ago, Buffalo was sued by the Department of Justice regarding its minority hiring practices in its police and fire departments. Buffalo lost, and an injunction was issued prohibiting the City from discriminating against minority and female applicants and workers. The order also required the City to set certain diversity goals for each minority and for females to balance its public safety workforce. Around the turn of the century, African American firefighters filed a class action suit asserting that tests the City used unfairly affected their ability for promotion in a discriminatory manner. As part of the litigation, the City hired a consultant who concluded that the City’s tests were not race neutral. Faced with the impeding litigation, and fearful that they would be subject to disparate impact liability, the City took certain race conscious actions to correct their previously misguided personnel selection procedures and to rectify what they believed was discrimination against minority firefighters. One such action was to disregard the results of certain promotional examinations by terminating the promotion list. In doing so, the City relied on Ricci v. Destefano, a 2009 Supreme Court case, in which IMLA also participated as amicus. Ricci permits an employer to disregard the results of a personnel selection procedure that favors one racial group over another, so long as there is a “strong basis in evidence” to conclude that a disparate impact exists. In turn, a group of white firefighters sued asserting that the termination of the test affected an equal protection violation and the lower court and the intermediate appellate court agreed. Filed November 24, 2014 (DC Circuit Court of Appeals) Heller v. District of Columbia No. 14-7071 Pro Bono Author: Larry Rosenfeld The District of Columbia has, over the last several decades, passed some of the most restrictive gun laws in the nation. In 2008, the Supreme Court struck down the District’s handgun in District of Columbia v. Heller (Heller I), 554 U.S. 570 (2008), concluding that the Second Amendment protected handgun possession for self-defense in the home. After Heller I, the District responded by enacting a law that banned assault weapons and large-capacity magazines but merely imposed registration requirements for handguns and long guns. This appeal involves the Second Amendment challenges that remained after the D.C. Circuit, in Heller II, reversed the dismissal of several challenges to the District’s gun registration requirements. On remand, the District of Columbia developed the record through four expert witnesses, and the plaintiffs presented one. The district court carefully analyzed the nature of proof necessary for the District to meet its burden under intermediate scrutiny and explained that the District need not prove “definitively that the challenged regulations will actually further its important interests”; that deference is owed its predictions about the effect of the gun regulations; and that the District need only show that its restrictions “reflect reasonable inferences based on substantial evidence.” The court also explained that the District could rely on more than empirical evidence, including the training and experience of law enforcement, anecdotes, history, consensus, and simple common sense. The court then reviewed, and upheld, challenges to various aspects of the gun registration, including long-gun registration, firearms safety training, and one-gun-a-month limit. The issue on appeal is whether the challenged firearm registration requirements in D.C. Code § 7-2501.01 et seq. violate the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. Filed August 29, 2014 (Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals) Tree of Life v. City of Upper Arlington No. 14-3469 Pro Bono Author: Phillip Hartman Tree of Life, a church, wanted to buy property to build a school in an area of the city zoned for commercial use. The commercial zone does not allow schools (public or private / secular or non-secular) as the city’s plan is to maximize commercial revenues within this zone. Tree of Life, after having been cautioned that the use of the building for a school was not permitted bought a large building with the intent to convert the building to a school. Consistent with its zoning ordinance, the city refused to allow Tree of Life to build a school in the commercial zone. Tree of Life brought suit in district court claiming the city’s decision violated the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA). The city’s decision was upheld by the lower court, which opined that the comparator for RLUIPA analysis should be other schools, not any institutional use such as daycare facilities, and therefore, because the city would not allow either secular or non-secular schools in the zone, the city did not violate RLUIPA. Tree of Life appealed to the Sixth Circuit, arguing that the district court failed to apply the proper standard under RLUIPA when it held that the only valid comparator to a religious school was a secular school. Filed June 14, 2013 (Fourth Circuit) Sandlands v. County of Horry No. 13-1134 Pro Bono Author: Scott Duboff Held: On December 3, 2013 the 4th Circuit upheld a lower court decision finding that Horry County’s flow control ordinance did not violate the Commerce Clause. This was a solid waste flow control case in the vein of United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, 550 U.S. 330 (2007). In United Haulers, the Supreme Court held that flow control ordinances, which benefit a public entity and do not favor local private interests over other private interests, do not offend the Commerce Clause. In 2009, Horry County passed an ordinance that required all municipal solid waste (MSW) and construction and demolition (C&D) debris to be processed within the county and disposed of in a landfill owned and operated by a public corporation created by the County. Private haulers could collect the waste, but it had to be processed inside the county and recyclable materials removed before the MSW and C&D were disposed of, exclusively, in the County landfill. Private haulers who wished to compete were required to set up a transfer station where the recyclables could be separated inside the County. Plaintiffs, who operated a landfill just outside the county, objected to the requirement to process the waste inside Horry County and claimed that the Horry County solid waste stream was contemplated when the plaintiffs’ landfill was permitted by the State. Plaintiffs challenged the ordinance on a number of grounds, both State and Federal, including violations of the dormant commerce clause, equal protection, unlawful delegation of police powers, contracts clause violations, inverse condemnation, substantive due process, denial of vested rights, preemption, interference with contractual relations and South Carolina UTPA violations. The district court certified the question of whether the State’s Solid Waste Management Act preempted the County’s ordinance, including the power to designate where the waste was to be processed and disposed of. The district court also held in favor of the County on the federal issues and this appeal followed. Filed April 24, 2013 (Petition for rehearing en banc – 7th Circuit) Hall v. City of Chicago No. 11-3279 Pro Bono Author: Patrick Rocks Status: Petition Denied Anna Hall was a female plumber working for the City of Chicago in a department in which all other nonsupport staff employees were male. In her complaint, she claims that her supervisor created a hostile work environment under Title VII. Hall argues that because she was female, her supervisor assigned her menial work, prohibited her coworkers from interacting with her, and subjected her to verbal violence. The district court granted summary judgment after concluding her supervisor’s conduct was not hostile particularly in comparison to other employees’ responsibilities. It also concluded that Hall failed to produce evidence that Johnson’s conduct was because of her sex. The Seventh Circuit reversed the district court’s findings, concluding that a jury could infer her supervisor’s deliberate isolation of her was sufficiently pervasive to constitute a hostile work environment and that her gender played a part in his actions. Filed February 7, 2013 (Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas) Texas v. Cooper No. PD-001-13 Pro Bono Author: Heather Mahurin Held: The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals held that the appellee was entitled to notice of violations of a municipal code before his subsequent violations of the code could result in convictions. Jay Cooper was charged and convicted with failing to maintain his home in good repair, in violation of the City of Plano’s Code of Ordinances. These convictions were appealed and reversed on appeal for failure to state a cognizable offense. The Fifth District Court of Appeals held that the City’s code does not create a separate and distinct offense for the violation of a substantive provision of the International Property Maintenance Code (“IPMC”). The Court reasoned that the City failed to properly charge Mr. Cooper with the IPMC violation, and that the City’s code does not constitute a separate and distinct offense for the violation of a substantive provision of the IPMC. In doing so the court ignored the intent of the Plano City Council. As a result, municipalities in Texas faced uncertainty when prosecuting code violations and enforcing model codes. Filed August 23, 2011 (Texas Supreme Court) Dallas v. Stewart READ BRIEF HERE Pro Bono Author: Marianne Landers Banks This is an interesting case. Steward bought a house and abandoned it in 1991. For over 10 years, the house was a common stop for code enforcement officials, for vagrants, and for complaints by neighbors. One neighbor even testified that an old tree had fallen from Stewart’s lot onto her causing $8,000 worth of damage and threatened to do $30,000 more. In September 2001, ten years after Stewart abandoned the house, the Dallas Urban Rehabilitation Standards Board, a thirty member administrative body, met to decide whether Stewart’s house was a nuisance that should be abated. Eventually, the Board voted in favor of demolishing the home. Shortly after, a code inspector when to Stewart’s home and found that she had not repaired the property. The City obtained a demolition warrant. Stewart appealed the Board’s decision to district court, but the district court upheld the Board’s decision. The property was demolished. Shortly after, Stewart brought an action, in part, including a due process and unconstitutional takings claim. The court ruled in favor of Stewart, saying that despite all the notice and opportunity to repair her home, she was entitled to a de novo review of her claims in court, rather than a determination by the administrative board and a affirmance under a substantial evidence standard by the reviewing court. {/tabs}


--- [LOMAX v. ORTIZ-MARQUEZ ET AL. (2020) | FindLaw] ---
Learn About the Law Get help with your legal needs FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help. The Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA) established what has become known as the three-strikes rule, which generally prevents a prisoner from bringing suit in forma pauperis (IFP) if he has had three or more prior suits "dismissed on the grounds that [they were] frivolous, malicious, or fail[ed] to state a claim upon which relief may be granted." 28 U. S. C. §1915(g). Petitioner Arthur Lomax, an inmate in a Colorado prison, filed this suit against respondent prison officials to challenge his expulsion from the facility's sex-offender treatment program. He also moved for IFP status, but he had already brought three unsuccessful legal actions during his time in prison. If the dispositions of those cases qualify as strikes under Section 1915(g), Lomax may not now proceed IFP. The courts below concluded that they did, rejecting Lomax's argument that two of the dismissals should not count as strikes because they were without prejudice. Held: Section 1915(g)'s three-strikes provision refers to any dismissal for failure to state a claim, whether with prejudice or without. This case begins, and pretty much ends, with Section 1915(g)'s text. The provision's broad language covers all dismissals for failure to state a claim, whether issued with or without prejudice to a plaintiff's ability to reassert his claim in a later action. A strike-call under Section 1915(g) thus hinges exclusively on the basis for the dismissal, regardless of the decision's prejudicial effect. To reach the opposite result would require reading the word "dismissed" in Section 1915(g) as "dismissed with prejudice." Doing so would also introduce inconsistencies into the PLRA, which has three other provisions mentioning "dismiss[als]" for "fail[ure] to state a claim." §§1915(e)(2)(B)(ii), 1915A(b); 42 U. S. C. §1997e(c). As the parties agree, those provisions do not deprive courts of the ability to dismiss suits without prejudice. Lomax nonetheless maintains that Section 1915(g)'s phrase "dismissed [for] fail[ure] to state a claim" is a "legal term of art" referring only to dismissals with prejudice. To support this view, he points to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 41(b), which tells courts to treat a dismissal "as an adjudication on the merits"--meaning a dismissal with prejudice--where the dismissal order does not specify. But Rule 41(b) is necessary precisely because "dismissed for failure to state a claim" refers to dismissals both with and without prejudice. The existence of the rule thus undercuts Lomax's position. Lomax also argues that the Court should interpret the phrase "failure to state a claim" based on the other two grounds for dismissal listed in Section 1915(g). But contra Lomax's view, courts can and sometimes do dismiss at least frivolous actions without prejudice. Still more fundamentally, interpreting the phrase "failure to state a claim" based on the pre-existing terms "frivolous" and "malicious" would defeat the PLRA's expansion of the statute beyond what was already there. Pp. 3-7. 754 Fed. Appx. 756, affirmed. Kagan, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., and Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito, Sotomayor, Gorsuch, and Kavanaugh, JJ., joined, and in which Thomas, J., joined as to all but footnote 4. Opinion of the Court 590 U. S. ____ (2020) NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press. No. 18-8369 ARTHUR J. LOMAX, PETITIONER v. CHRISTINA ORTIZ-MARQUEZ, et al. on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit [June 8, 2020] Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.1 To help staunch a "flood of nonmeritorious" prisoner litigation, the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA) established what has become known as the three-strikes rule. Jones v. Bock, 549 U. S. 199, 203 (2007). That rule generally prevents a prisoner from bringing suit in forma pauperis (IFP)--that is, without first paying the filing fee--if he has had three or more prior suits "dismissed on the grounds that [they were] frivolous, malicious, or fail[ed] to state a claim upon which relief may be granted." 28 U. S. C. §1915(g). Today we address whether a suit dismissed for failure to state a claim counts as a strike when the dismissal was without prejudice. We conclude that it does: The text of Section 1915(g)'s three-strikes provision refers to any dismissal for failure to state a claim, whether with prejudice or without. I Petitioner Arthur Lomax is an inmate in a Colorado prison. He filed this suit against respondent prison officials to challenge his expulsion from the facility's sex-offender treatment program. As is common in prison litigation, he also moved for IFP status to allow his suit to go forward before he pays the $400 filing fee. For that motion to succeed, Lomax must avoid Section 1915(g). That provision bars further IFP litigation once a prisoner has had at least three prior suits dismissed on specified grounds.1 And Lomax is no rookie litigant. During his time in prison, he has already brought three unsuccessful legal actions (against various corrections officers, prosecutors, and judges). If the dispositions of those cases qualify as strikes under Section 1915(g), Lomax may not now proceed IFP. The courts below ruled that Lomax had struck out. The District Court denied his motion for IFP status, finding that all three of his prior suits had been dismissed for failure to state a claim--one of the grounds specified in Section 1915(g). See App. 65-66.3 On appeal, Lomax argued that two of those dismissals should not count as strikes because they were without prejudice, thus allowing him to file a later suit on the same claim. The Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit rejected that argument. Relying on Circuit precedent, the Court held it "immaterial to the strikes analysis" whether a dismissal was with or without prejudice. 754 Fed. Appx. 756, 759 (2018) (quoting Childs v. Miller, 713 F. 3d 1262, 1266 (CA10 2013)). The Courts of Appeals have long divided over whether a dismissal without prejudice for failure to state a claim qualifies as a strike under Section 1915(g).4 In line with our duty to call balls and strikes, we granted certiorari to resolve the split, 589 U. S. ___ (2019), and we now affirm. II This case begins, and pretty much ends, with the text of Section 1915(g). Under that provision, a prisoner accrues a strike for any action "dismissed on the ground[ ] that it . . . fails to state a claim upon which relief may be granted." That broad language covers all such dismissals: It applies to those issued both with and without prejudice to a plaintiff 's ability to reassert his claim in a later action.5 A strike-call under Section 1915(g) thus hinges exclusively on the basis for the dismissal, regardless of the decision's prejudicial effect. To reach the opposite result--counting prejudicial orders alone as strikes--we would have to read the simple word "dismissed" in Section 1915(g) as "dismissed with prejudice." But this Court may not narrow a provision's reach by inserting words Congress chose to omit. See, e.g., Virginia Uranium, Inc. v. Warren, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (lead opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 1). Indeed, to do so would violate yet another rule of statutory construction: "In all but the most unusual situations, a single use of a statutory phrase must have a fixed meaning" across a statute. Cochise Consultancy, Inc. v. United States ex rel. Hunt, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 5). The PLRA includes three other provisions mentioning "dismiss[als]" for "fail[ure] to state a claim"--each enabling courts to dismiss sua sponte certain prisoner suits on that ground. §§1915(e)(2)(B)(ii), 1915A(b); 42 U. S. C. §1997e(c). No one here thinks those provisions deprive courts of the ability to dismiss those suits without prejudice. See Reply Brief 15; Brief for Respondents 21-24; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21-22. Nor would that be a plausible position. The broad statutory language--on its face covering dismissals both with and without prejudice--tracks courts' ordinary authority to decide whether a dismissal for failure to state a claim should have preclusive effect. So reading the PLRA's three-strikes rule to apply only to dismissals with prejudice would introduce inconsistencies into the statute. The identical phrase would then bear different meanings in provisions almost next-door to each other. Still, Lomax maintains that the phrase "dismissed [for] fail[ure] to state a claim" in Section 1915(g) is a "legal term of art" referring only to dismissals with prejudice. Reply Brief 4. To support that view, he relies on a procedural rule used to answer a different question. When a court dismisses a case for failure to state a claim, but neglects to specify whether the order is with or without prejudice, how should a later court determine its preclusive effect? Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 41(b), codifying an old equitable principle, supplies the answer: It tells courts to treat the dismissal "as an adjudication on the merits"--meaning a dismissal with prejudice. See Durant v. Essex Co., 7 Wall. 107, 109 (1869). According to Lomax, "Section 1915(g) should be interpreted in light of this legal backdrop." Brief for Petitioner 17. He reasons: Because Rule 41(b) presumes that an order stating only "dismissed for failure to state a claim" is with prejudice, the same language when used in Section 1915(g) should bear that same meaning. And if so, the provision would assign a strike to only with-prejudice dismissals for failure to state a claim. But that argument gets things backwards. The Rule 41(b) presumption (like its older equitable counterpart) does not convert the phrase "dismissed for failure to state a claim" into a legal term of art meaning "dismissed with prejudice" on that ground. To the contrary, Rule 41(b) is necessary because that phrase means only what it says: "dismissed for failure to state a claim"--whether or not with prejudice. In other words, the phrase's indifference to prejudicial effect is what creates the need for a default rule to determine the import of a dismissal when a court fails to make that clear. Rule 41(b), then, actually undercuts Lomax's position: Its very existence is a form of proof that the language used in Section 1915(g) covers dismissals both with and without prejudice. And here too, confirmation of the point comes from the PLRA's other provisions referring to "dismiss[als]" for "fail[ure] to state a claim." See supra, at 4. If that phrase had really become a legal term of art implying "with prejudice," then those provisions would prevent courts from dismissing prisoner suits without prejudice for failure to state a claim. But Lomax himself does not accept that improbable reading. See ibid. His supposed "term of art" is strangely free-floating, transforming ordinary meaning in one place while leaving it alone in all others. Lomax also makes an argument based on the two other grounds for dismissal listed in Section 1915(g). Recall that the provision counts as strikes dismissals of actions that are "frivolous" or "malicious," along with those that fail to state a claim. See supra, at 1, 2, n. 1. In Lomax's view, the first two kinds of dismissals "reflect a judicial determination that a claim is irremediably defective"--that it "cannot succeed and should not return to court." Brief for Petitioner 11, 22 (internal quotation marks omitted). To "harmonize [all] three grounds for strikes," he continues, the same must be true of dismissals for failure to state a claim. Id., at 23; see id., at 21 (invoking the "interpretive canon noscitur a sociis, a word is known by the company it keeps" (internal quotation marks omitted)). So Section 1915(g), Lomax concludes, must capture only the subset of those dismissals that are issued with prejudice--the ones disposing of "irredeemable" suits. Id., at 21. As an initial matter, the very premise of that argument is mistaken. Contra Lomax's view, courts can and sometimes do conclude that frivolous actions are not "irremediably defective," and thus dismiss them without prejudice. See, e.g., Marts v. Hines, 117 F. 3d 1504, 1505 (CA5 1997); see also Jackson v. Florida Dept. of Financial Servs., 479 Fed. Appx. 289, 292 (CA11 2012) (similarly if less commonly, dismissing a malicious action without prejudice). Indeed, this Court has suggested that a trial court might abuse its discretion by dismissing an IFP suit with prejudice if "frivolous factual allegations [can] be remedied through more specific pleading." Denton v. Hernandez, 504 U. S. 25, 34 (1992). So on Lomax's own metric--whether down the road the plaintiff 's claim might return--the dismissals he claims would be outliers in Section 1915(g) in fact would have company. And because that is true, his reason for excluding those decisions from the provision collapses. If dismissals without prejudice for frivolousness count as a strike under Section 1915(g), then why not for failure to state a claim too? Still more fundamentally, Lomax is wrong to suggest that every dismissed action encompassed in Section 1915(g) must closely resemble frivolous or malicious ones. The point of the PLRA, as its terms show, was to cabin not only abusive but also simply meritless prisoner suits. Before the PLRA, the statute governing IFP claims targeted frivolous and malicious actions, but no others. See Neitzke v. Williams, 490 U. S. 319, 328 (1989). In the PLRA, Congress chose to go further--precisely by aiming as well at actions that failed to state a claim. The theory was that a "flood of nonmeritorious claims," even if not in any way abusive, was "effectively preclud[ing] consideration of " suits more likely to succeed. Jones, 549 U. S., at 203. So we cannot, in the interest of "harmonization," interpret the phrase "failure to state a claim" based on the pre-existing terms "frivolous" and "malicious." Cf. Babbitt v. Sweet Home Chapter, Communities for Great Ore., 515 U. S. 687, 702, 705 (1995) (rejecting use of the noscitur canon when "the Senate went out of its way to add" a "broad word" to a statute). That would defeat the PLRA's expansion of the statute beyond what was already there. III The text of the PLRA's three-strikes provision makes this case an easy call. A dismissal of a suit for failure to state a claim counts as a strike, whether or not with prejudice. We therefore affirm the judgment below. It is so ordered. Justice Thomas joins all but footnote 4 of this opinion. 1 The full text of the three-strikes provision reads: "In no event shall a prisoner bring a civil action or appeal a judgment in a civil action or proceeding [in forma pauperis] if the prisoner has, on 3 or more prior occasions, while incarcerated or detained in any facility, brought an action or appeal in a court of the United States that was dismissed on the grounds that it is frivolous, malicious, or fails to state a claim upon which relief may be granted, unless the prisoner is under imminent danger of serious physical injury." 28 U. S. C. §1915(g). Two of the cases were dismissed under Heck v. Humphrey, 512 U. S. 477 (1994), which holds that a claim challenging the validity of a conviction or sentence under 42 U. S. C. §1983 "does not accrue until the conviction or sentence has been invalidated." 512 U. S., at 490. In concluding that those two Heck dismissals were for failure to state a claim, the District Court followed Circuit precedent. See Smith v. Veterans Admin., 636 F. 3d 1306, 1312 (CA10 2011). Not all Courts of Appeals accept that view. See, e.g., Mejia v. Harrington, 541 Fed. Appx. 709, 710 (CA7 2013). But Lomax did not raise that issue, and we therefore do not address it. Four Circuits treat dismissals without prejudice for failure to state a claim as strikes. See Orr v. Clements, 688 F. 3d 463, 465 (CA8 2012); Paul v. Marberry, 658 F. 3d 702, 704 (CA7 2011); O'Neal v. Price, 531 F. 3d 1146, 1154 (CA9 2008); Day v. Maynard, 200 F. 3d 665, 667 (CA10 1999) (per curiam). Two Circuits do the opposite. See Millhouse v. Heath, 866 F. 3d 152, 162-163 (CA3 2017); McLean v. United States, 566 F. 3d 391, 396-397 (CA4 2009). Note, however, that the provision does not apply when a court gives a plaintiff leave to amend his complaint. Courts often take that path if there is a chance that amendment can cure a deficient complaint. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 15(a) (discussing amendments to pleadings). In that event, because the suit continues, the court's action falls outside of Section 1915(g) and no strike accrues. See Brief for Respondents 31-35 (noting that flexible amendment practices "ensure that potentially meritorious prisoner suits are not hastily dismissed with a strike"); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 27-28 (similar); Tr. of Oral Arg. 32-34, 44 (similar). A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes visit FindLaw's Learn About the Law. Docket No: No. 18-8369 Argued: February 26, 2020 Decided: June 08, 2020 Court: United States Supreme Court Search our directory by legal issue Enter information in one or both fields (Required) Harness the power of our directory with your own profile. Select the button below to sign up. Learn more about FindLaw’s newsletters, including our terms of use and privacy policy. Get help with your legal needs FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help. Search our directory by legal issue Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
