=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Marina Abramovic and Ulay (Frank Uwe Laysiepen) at MoMA 2010 - Pure ...]
In 2010 at MoMA, Abramović engaged in an extended performance called, The Artist Is Present. The work was inspired by her belief that stretching the length of a performance beyond expectations ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=53O-AiTqpt4

[The Artist Is Present - Johan Lundh]
Filling the monumental atrium of MoMA is The Artist Is Present (2010), a new performance by Abramović based on Nightsea Crossing (22 performances, 1981-1987) which was made in collaboration with her former partner in art and life, Ulay (Uwe Laysiepen).
URL: https://johanlundh.net/the-artist-is-present/

[Marina Abramovic | Biography, Facts, The Artist Is Present ...]
5 days ago · Marina Abramovic, Yugoslav-born performance artist known for works that tested the endurance and limitations of her body and mind. Her notable projects include Balkan Baroque (1997), The House with the Ocean View (2002), and The Artist Is Present (2010). Learn more about Abramovic’s life and career.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Marina-Abramovic

[Ulay]
At her 2010 MoMA retrospective, Abramović performed The Artist Is Present, in which she shared a period of silence with each stranger who sat in front of her.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulay

[Marina Abramović: The Artist Is Present | MoMA]
Exhibition. Mar 14-May 31, 2010. This performance retrospective traces the prolific career of Marina Abramović (Yugoslav, b. 1946) with approximately fifty works spanning over four decades of her early interventions and sound pieces, video works, installations, photographs, solo performances, and collaborative performances made with Ulay (Uwe Laysiepen). In an endeavor to transmit the ...
URL: https://www.moma.org/calendar/exhibitions/964


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Marina Abramovic and Ulay (Frank Uwe Laysiepen) at MoMA 2010 - Pure ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [The Artist Is Present - Johan Lundh] ---
C magazine | 2010 Review of Marina Abramović: The Artist Is Present at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2010, by Aileen Burns and Johan Lundh. This spring, New York became host to an exhibition that was deemed legendary even before it opened. Marina Abramović’s retrospective The Artist Is Present at the Museum of Modern Art spanned nearly 40 years of this performance artist’s groundbreaking career. The combination of historic documentation and reenactments represents one of the first serious attempts at presenting a retrospective of performance work to a broad audience within a museum context. The show raises fundamental questions about the future of work that is ephemeral and deeply entangled with a single persona. Few living artists have achieved the same iconic status as Marina Abramović, self-proclaimed “grandmother of performance art”. Filling the monumental atrium of MoMA is The Artist Is Present (2010), a new performance by Abramović based on Nightsea Crossing (22 performances, 1981-1987) which was made in collaboration with her former partner in art and life, Ulay (Uwe Laysiepen). Abramović holds court, sitting calm and statuesque on a wooden chair, staring toward another chair made accessible to visitors. Each day a long cue developed and was populated by young performance artists coming to pay homage, curious first-timers to the museum, and an astonishing cast of recognizable personalities such as James Franco, Lou Reid, Chrissie Iles, Björk, and most movingly, Ulay. In total she faced 1545 visitors over 716.5 hours. The performance was illuminated with elaborate film lighting and streamed live on the museum’s website, infinitely expanding access to the show and establishing a platform for gaining 15 minutes of fame. Abramović’s career was divided into three distinct sections: early solo pieces, collaborations with Ulay, and recent work. Before entering the main, visitors were faced with Abramović and Ulay’s iconic Citrôen military van which contained their naively optimistic manifesto. In the manifesto, the artists vow never to repeat themselves which is a rather paradoxical proclamation, given Abramović’s more recent ventures into re-enactment. This document hails from another time when presence was of primary concern and political consequence. The first part of the exhibition consists of video and photographic documentation of past actions, ephemera, and re-created performance props. Most prominent is a video of Rhythm 0 (1974) for which Abramović made herself available to an audience who could use 72 different objects on her naked body however they wanted. The gun, bullet and lipstick on display are enough to give one chills. The second part of the exhibition bleeds together with the first through the re-performance of Imponderabilia (1977), where two naked performers face one another in a doorway and visitors are free to pass between them (re-performance is the term adopted by MoMA’s for these re-enactments.) The piece was originally performed by Abramović and Ulay at Galleria Comunale d’Arte Moderna Bolonga. During my visit, a doorway leading from the first to second spaces of the exhibition was flanked by two naked men positioned with so little space between them that I could not help but graze their bodies with my own as I passed between them. There was intensity to the experience, which came from breaking their steady gaze, and invading their personal space. This re-performance opened up fresh questions while maintaining the most poignant element of Imponderabilia; the direct engagement with, and challenging of the audience. However, unlike the Abramović and Ulay original, the audience at MoMA did not have to pass through the performers since there was an unobstructed entrance a few meters away. This work was re-enacted by both male and female performers in variable combination, meaning that sometimes two men or two women performed together. This created an interesting queerification of what was originally a hetero-normative piece; an appropriate modernization of a piece that is more than 30 years old. Unfortunately, the re-performances Relation in Time (1977), in which two performers are bound, back to back, by matting their hair together, and Point of Contact (1980), where two standing figures extend their index fingers toward one another while staring each other in the eye, are disappointing in comparison to Imponderabilia. This is largely due to their confinement in cordoned off spaces that are lit like theaters. Furthermore, I got no sense that there is anything a stake on a personal level, as with Abramović and Ulay. The third section is dominated by Abramović’s Balkan Baroque (1997), an installation comprised of an overwhelming number of cow bones that are the reminisce of a gruesome and arduous cleaning project undertaken during the 47th Venice Biennale. Alongside the remains are a video of the act, some other more didactic footage, and props from this stomach turning piece.. Balkan Baroque introduces the paradigm for her more recent solo work. Themes of loss, death and traces of her Balkan ancestry are everywhere. One startling exception is Seven Easy Pieces (2005), a series of re-performances, done by Abramović at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, which bring her iconic performances from earlier in the century back to life. In Seven Easy Pieces, Abramović tests the implications and practicalities of presenting historical performance before staging her own early performance works. The artist may be present now, but she is clearly preparing for a time when these works will have to stand without the support of her formidable presence. More than anything, Seven Easy Pieces brings back the intensity for which the artist is known and revered. Her love for and commitment to performance is made clear, and she takes a stand on what the future of performance can be and places herself at the center of that discourse. The Artist is Present shares with her Guggenheim re-performance an unyielding commitment to challenging audiences and herself. Most of her recent works lack the interpersonal element since many of them are made directly for the camera. Ironically, it is Seven Easy Pieces that reinvigorates this part of her oeuvre. She combines the kind of live, and interpersonal works for which she has gained a committed audience and at the same time challenges the notion that she need be there at all. Upon leaving the exhibition and passing Abramović performing The Artist Is Present a second time, urgenent questions arose: what happens to work like this when artists are replaced by actors? To what degree does the museum context necessitate a theatrical and even stagy presentation? Who controls the right to re-perform works? Who is given this opportunity and by what means? In its multiplicity The Artist Is Present admits that there is no one answer.


--- [Marina Abramovic | Biography, Facts, The Artist Is Present ...] ---
Marina Abramović - Who is Marina Abramović? - What is performance art? - How did Marina Abramović become known as a performance artist? - What are some famous art pieces by Marina Abramović? - How does Marina Abramović use her body in her artwork? - Why is Marina Abramović considered important in the history of performance art? Marina Abramović (born November 30, 1946, Belgrade, Yugoslavia [now in Serbia]) is a Yugoslav-born performance artist known for works that dramatically tested the endurance and limitations of her own body and mind. Abramović was raised in Yugoslavia by parents who fought as Partisans in World War II and were later employed in the communist government of Josip Broz Tito. In 1965 she enrolled at the Academy of Fine Arts in Belgrade to study painting. Eventually, however, she became interested in the possibilities of performance art, specifically the ability to use her body as a site of artistic and spiritual exploration. After completing postgraduate studies at the Academy of Fine Arts in Zagreb, Croatia, in 1972, Abramović conceived a series of visceral performance pieces that engaged her body as both subject and medium. In Rhythm 10 (1973), for instance, she methodically stabbed the spaces between her fingers with a knife, at times drawing blood. In Rhythm 0 (1974) she stood immobile in a room for six hours along with 72 objects, ranging from a rose to a loaded gun, that the audience was invited to use on her however they wished. These pieces provoked controversy not only for their perilousness but also for Abramović’s occasional nudity, which would become a regular element of her work thereafter. In 1975 Abramović moved to Amsterdam, and a year later she began collaborating with Frank Uwe Laysiepen (byname Ulay), a like-minded German artist. Much of their work together was concerned with gender identity, most notoriously Imponderabilia (1977), in which they stood naked while facing each other in a museum’s narrow entrance, forcing visitors to squeeze between them and, in so doing, to choose which of the two to face. The couple also traveled extensively, and their Nightsea Crossing (1981–87), a prolonged act of mutual meditation and concentration, was performed in more than a dozen locations around the world. When they decided to end their relationship in 1988, they symbolically marked the dissolution with a piece in which they walked from either end of the Great Wall of China and met in the middle to say goodbye. Abramović’s profile was raised in 1997, when she won the Golden Lion for best artist at the Venice Biennale. Her exhibit, the brooding Balkan Baroque, used both video and live performance to interrogate her cultural and familial identity. She also captured public attention for The House with the Ocean View (2002), a gallery installation in which she lived ascetically for 12 days in three exposed cubes mounted onto a wall. By 2005 she had begun to ruminate on the legacy of performance art, a genre in which individual works usually had no life beyond their original staging, apart from their occasional preservation on film. That year, in an attempt to counteract that tradition, Abramović presented Seven Easy Pieces, a series of reenactments, or “reperformances,” of seminal works—two of her own and five by other performance artists, including Bruce Nauman and Joseph Beuys—at the Guggenheim Museum in New York City. In 2010 the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City held a wide-ranging retrospective of Abramović’s work, The Artist Is Present. For the exhibition, Abramović debuted the eponymous performance piece, in which she sat quietly as museum patrons took turns sitting opposite and looking at her as she gazed back. The chance to participate in the work helped attract long lines of visitors. The retrospective also featured a company of performers reenacting Abramović’s earlier work. Although the reperformances were often criticized for eradicating the energy and unpredictability of the original presentations, they and the new performance piece brought Abramović further recognition—as did the 2012 HBO documentary The Artist Is Present. A chronicle of the retrospective, it also documented Abramović’s test of physical endurance as she sat motionless for seven hours each day during the three-month-long exhibition run. - Born: - November 30, 1946, Belgrade, Yugoslavia [now in Serbia] (age 79) - On the Web: - ABC listen - Earshot - Encountering Marina AbramovićÂ—artist and icon (Feb. 27, 2026) After the MoMA retrospective, Abramović became something of a celebrity, collaborating with such pop icons as Jay Z, Lady Gaga, and James Franco. She continued to explore the legacy of performance art by teaching her principles through workshops at art galleries and later through her organizations, most notably the Marina Abramović Institute in New York state. In 2016 Abramović published the memoir Walk Through Walls.


--- [Ulay] ---
Frank Uwe Laysiepen (German: [fʁaŋk ˈʔuːvə laɪˈziːpm̩]; 30 November 1943 – 2 March 2020), known professionally as Ulay, was a German artist based in Amsterdam and Ljubljana, who received international recognition for his Polaroid art and collaborative performance art with longtime companion Marina Abramović.




--- [Marina Abramović: The Artist Is Present | MoMA] ---
This performance retrospective traces the prolific career of Marina Abramović (Yugoslav, b. 1946) with approximately fifty works spanning over four decades of her early interventions and sound pieces, video works, installations, photographs, solo performances, and collaborative performances made with Ulay (Uwe Laysiepen). In an endeavor to transmit the presence of the artist and make her historical performances accessible to a larger audience, the exhibition includes the first live re-performances of Abramović’s works by other people ever to be undertaken in a museum setting. In addition, a new, original work performed by Abramović will mark the longest duration of time that she has performed a single solo piece. All performances, one of which involves viewer participation, will take place throughout the entire duration of the exhibition, starting before the Museum opens each day and continuing until after it closes, to allow visitors to experience the timelessness of the works. A chronological installation of Abramović’s work will be included in The Joan and Preston Robert Tisch Gallery on the sixth floor of the Museum, revealing different modes of representing, documenting, and exhibiting her ephemeral, time-based, and media-based works. The exhibition is accompanied by an illustrated catalogue that includes an audio recording of the artist’s voice guiding the reader through the publication. Works in the exhibition are reperformed by: Maria José Arjona, Brittany Bailey, John Bonafede, Lydia Brawner, Rachel Brennecke (aka Bon Jane), Rebecca Brooks, Isabella Bruno, Alfredo Ferran Calle, Hsiao Chen, Rebecca Davis, Angela Freiberger, Kennis Hawkins, Michael Helland, Igor Josifov, Elana Katz, Cynthia Koppe, Heather Kravas, Gary Lai, Abigail Levine, Jacqueline Lounsbury, Isabelle Lumpkin, Elke Luyten, Alexander Lyle, Justine Lynch, Tom McCauley, Nick Morgan, Andrew Ondrejcak, Juri Onuki, Tony Orrico, Will Rawls, Matthew Rogers, George Emilio Sanchez, Ama Saru, Jill Sigman, Maria S. H. M., David Thomson, Layard Thompson, Amelia Uzategui Bonilla, Deborah Wing-Sproul, Yozmit, and Jeramy Zimmerman. Organized by Klaus Biesenbach, Chief Curator at Large, The Museum of Modern Art, and Director, PS1 Contemporary Art Center.
