=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alexandrov Ensemble - Wikipedia]
The Alexandrov Ensemble (Russian: Ансамбль Александрова, romanized: Ansambl' Aleksandrova), commonly known as the Red Army Choir in the West, is an official army choir of the Russian armed forces. Founded during the Soviet era, the ensemble consists of a male choir, an orchestra, and a dance ensemble.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandrov_Ensemble

[The Red Army Choir: A History of Russian Soft Power]
The Red Army Choir received numerous awards and titles from the Soviet state, and in 1949, it was renamed the A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army, or Alexandrov Ensemble for short.
URL: https://www.thecollector.com/red-army-chor-russian-soft-power/

[Alexandrov ensemble - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In 1949 the ensemble was named officially to the " A. V. Alexandrov Soviet army twice red - bannered and red - starred song and dance ensemble ", so it was not the Red army choir any more.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/625837

[Songs of World War II by The Red Army Choir - SonicHits]
In 1949 the ensemble was officially named the A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army (Дважды Краснознамённый ордена Красной Звезды ансамбль песни и пляски Советской Армии имени А. В. Александрова).
URL: https://sonichits.com/video/The_Red_Army_Choir/Songs_of_World_War_II

[Alexandrov Ensemble Explained]
The Alexandrov Ensemble (Russian: Ансамбль Александрова|r=Ansambl' Aleksandrova), commonly known as the Red Army Choir in the West, is an official army choir of the Russian armed forces. Founded during the Soviet era, the ensemble consists of a male choir, an orchestra, and a dance ensemble.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Red_Army_Choir/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alexandrov Ensemble - Wikipedia] ---
The Alexandrov Ensemble (Russian: Ансамбль Александрова, romanized: Ansambl' Aleksandrova), commonly known as the Red Army Choir in the West, is an official army choir of the Russian armed forces. Founded during the Soviet era, the ensemble consists of a male choir, an orchestra, and a dance ensemble.
The Ensemble has entertained audiences both in Russia and throughout the world, performing a range of music including folk tunes, hymns, operatic arias and popular music. The group's repertoire has included The Volga Boatmen's Song, Katyusha, Kalinka, and Ave Maria.
It is named for its first director, Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov (1883–1946). Its formal name since 1998 has been A. V. Alexandrov Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Russian Army (Russian: Академи́ческий анса́мбль пе́сни и пля́ски Росси́йской А́рмии и́мени А. В. Алекса́ндрова, romanized: Akademíchesky ansámbl′ pésni i plyáski Rossýskoy Ármii ímeni A. V. Aleksándrova), shortened to Academic Ensemble (Russian: Академи́ческий анса́мбль, romanized: Akademíchesky ansámbl′) on second reference.
On 25 December 2016, its artistic director, Valery Khalilov, and 63 other members of the Ensemble were killed in the Russian Defence Ministry aircraft crash of a 1983 Tupolev Tu-154 into the Black Sea just after takeoff from the southern resort city of Sochi, Russia. The Red Army Choir singers and dancers were en route to Syria to entertain Russian troops there for Orthodox Christmas celebrations.




--- [The Red Army Choir: A History of Russian Soft Power] ---
In the early hours of December 25, 2016, a Russian Tu-154 military plane crashed in the Black Sea shortly after taking off from Sochi. Among the 92 killed were 64 members of the Red Army Choir on their way to perform for Russian service members in Syria. While the choir’s ranks have since been replenished, the tragedy devastated one of the world’s most famous military choirs and was lamented by its admirers all over the globe. Read on to discover the history of this famed choir and what makes it so significant. The Red Army Choir’s Beginnings The collective known internationally as the Red Army Choir was founded in 1928 on the initiative of the Red Army Central House as the Red Army Song Ensemble. Its founding director was Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov, a talented musician who had trained at the St Petersburg Conservatory under composers Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov and Alexander Glazunov. While the troupe initially consisted of twelve members (eight singers, two dancers, and two musicians), it grew significantly during its early years. With support from Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, there were already 135 members by the end of 1935. The choir’s repertoire during the early years consisted of folk songs and Red Army songs from the Russian Civil War transcribed and arranged by Alexandrov. In 1929, when Soviet troops under General Vasily Blyukher were sent to Manchuria to fight the warlord Zhang Xueliang for control of the Chinese Eastern Railway, Alexandrov and his ensemble performed for troops at the front and were often under fire. The Red Army Choir achieved international renown for the first time in 1937 when it traveled to France to perform at the Paris Exposition. At a time of ideological confrontation between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, Alexandrov’s men won a Gold Medal and gave 15 concerts instead of the originally scheduled six. The choir was on its way to the 1939 New York Exposition when it was forced to turn back by the outbreak of the Second World War. The Sacred War On June 22, 1941, Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, opening a phase of the Second World War known in Russia as the Great Patriotic War. Two days later, on June 24, the poet Vasily Lebedev-Kumach wrote the text to a patriotic song with the following refrain: Let noble wrath Boil over like a wave! This is the people’s war, The Sacred War! After reading Lebedev-Kumach’s text at the choir’s rehearsal, Alexandrov immediately sat down at his piano to set The Sacred War to music. Two days later, the Red Army Choir premiered the song at the Belorussky Railway Station in Moscow before Soviet troops departed for the front. At a time when the Red Army’s forces were sent reeling by the Wehrmacht, Alexandrov’s stirring war cry gave hope to the Soviets in WWII. The Sacred War soon became one of Alexandrov’s most iconic compositions and continues to be regularly performed. During the war, the ensemble had over 300 performers and was divided into four independent groups, allowing the choir to entertain troops serving on different fronts, giving 1,500 concerts in total. In late 1943, the Soviet Union ran a competition for a new national anthem to replace The Internationale following the dissolution of the Comintern. Over 200 entries were received, including a joint submission by famous composers Dmitry Shostakovich and Aram Khachaturian. Alexandrov’s submission was based on his 1938 Anthem of the Bolshevik Party with new lyrics by Sergey Mikhalkov and Gabriel El-Registan. Alexandrov’s entry was duly adopted as the State Anthem of the Soviet Union in early 1944. Alexandrov’s tune continues to serve as the Anthem of the Russian Federation, sung to a new text written by the 87-year-old Mikhalkov in 2000. International Fame In July 1946, while the Red Army Choir was on tour in Berlin, Major General Alexander Alexandrov suddenly died of a heart attack at the age of 63. He was succeeded as leader of the ensemble by his son Boris. With the end of the Second World War, the Red Army Choir now served to promote peace. The choir returned to Berlin in 1948 to sing at a peace concert, giving a performance featuring Russian folk songs, German operatic pieces, and the Ode to Joy chorus of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony. Solo tenor Viktor Nikitin requested and was granted permission to perform a selection of German folk songs which had the audience singing along. The Red Army Choir received numerous awards and titles from the Soviet state, and in 1949, it was renamed the A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army, or Alexandrov Ensemble for short. The ensemble rose to new heights internationally, undertaking 70 tours during Boris Alexandrov’s 40-year leadership from 1946 to 1987. During these international tours, the choir popularized a number of Russian songs. These included The Song of the Volga Boatmen, a traditional folk song sung by barge-haulers of the Volga River and performed by a bass-baritone soloist. Another song that became internationally famous is Katyusha, a wartime song about a young woman standing on a riverbank singing about her distant beloved at war. Mr. Kalinka The most famous song in the Red Army Choir’s repertoire is Kalinka, written during the mid-19th century in the style of a folk song, in which the refrain is sung at a faster tempo every time it is repeated. In Boris Alexandrov’s arrangement of Kalinka, the tenor sings each verse while the choir sings the refrain, often with some members whistling to imitate birdsong. The tenor begins each verse with a long descending “A-a-a-ah” phrase in a single breath, to the astonishment of audiences. Several tenors of the ensemble have been granted the unofficial nickname of Mr. Kalinka by journalists and critics for their virtuosity. Viktor Nikitin was the choir’s first Mr. Kalinka, a title conferred on him either at the Paris Exposition in 1937 or the Peace Concert in 1948. Nikitin ended his career as a soloist in 1952 and returned to the ranks of the choir. During the 1960s, the title of Mr. Kalinka passed to Evgeny Belayev, who was also known as the “Russian Nightingale” for his performance of Solovii or Nightingales, in which the singer asks the eponymous birds not to disturb the soldiers sleeping (i.e., fallen) on the field of battle. The Alexandrov Ensemble’s current Mr. Kalinka is Vadim Petrovich Ananyev, who has been a soloist since 1999. Decline & Revival Boris Alexandrov stepped down as the head of the ensemble in 1987, a few years before the fall of the Soviet Union. Funding began to dry up due to economic difficulties, and a 1988 tour to the UK featured a much smaller choir with the Ukrainian operatic tenor Anatoliy Solovianenko as guest soloist. When the Red Army Choir made its US debut in 1989, the New York Times critic remarked that the ensemble had been “toned down.” In 1998, the Alexandrov Ensemble was officially renamed the A. V. Alexandrov Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Russian Army, though it continues to use the Red Army Choir brand internationally. Since 2006, the ensemble has been under the Russian Ministry of Defense. The ensemble’s international fortunes revived in the early 2000s under the leadership of Leonid Malev, thanks to its international promoter, Thierry Wolf. Wolf organized a well-received concert in Paris in 2003 and a performance for an ailing Pope John Paul II at the Vatican the following year. At the interval for the first semi-final of the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest in Moscow, the Alexandrov Ensemble sang Kalinka and teamed up with girl duo t.a.T.u to perform their 2003 hit Not Gonna Get Us. Thierry Wolf is also the promoter of the Russian National Guard (Rosgvardia) Choir led by Viktor Eliseev, formerly the Russian Interior Ministry (MVD) Choir, which performed a memorable cover of Daft Punk’s Get Lucky at the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. In a confusing arrangement, Wolf’s production company also uses the Red Army Choir name to promote the MVD choir. Tragedy & Rebirth Following the fall of communism, the Alexandrov Ensemble has performed for Russian troops in war zones in Chechnya, Yugoslavia, and Syria. This was the context behind the tragic plane crash in 2016, which killed most of the ensemble on their way to Latakia air base in Syria for a New Year concert. The Alexandrov Ensemble’s leader and artistic director, Valery Khalilov, was among the victims. A well-respected military musician and composer, in 2006, Lieutenant-General Khalilov founded the Spasskaya Tower International Military Music Festival on Red Square, attracting military musicians from all over the world, including China, the United Kingdom, and the United States. He had been appointed to lead the Alexandrov Ensemble in May 2016, a mere seven months before he and his colleagues lost their lives. The Ministry of Defense quickly began to rebuild the choir around surviving members who had not been on the plane. Star tenor Vadim Ananyev had been granted a leave of absence to take care of a newborn child, veteran bass Valery Gaava also stayed at home, while Roman Valutov’s expired passport denied him boarding at the airport. On February 17, 2017, the reconstituted Red Army Choir performed for the first time after the tragedy under the baton of Gennady Sachenyuk, who had previously served as artistic director between 2012 and 2016. Alongside Ananyev, Gavva, and Valutov, the ensemble’s soloists include the baritone Maxim Maklakov, formerly of the Krasnodar Philharmonic, and the tenor Alexander Kruze, recruited from the Lipetsk Philharmonic.


--- [Alexandrov ensemble - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Alexandrov ensemble The A. V. Alexandrov Russian army twice red-bannered academic song and dance ensemble ( _ru. Дважды краснознаменный академический ансамбль песни и пляски Российской армии имени А. В. Александрова, "Dvazhdy krasnoznamenny akademichesky ensemble pesni i plyaski Rossiyskoy armii imeni A. V. Alexandrova"), shortly the Alexandrov ensemble ( _ru. Ансамбль Александрова, "Ensemble Alexandrova") is a performing ensemble that serves as the official army choir of the Russian armed forces. The ensemble consists of a male choir , anorchestra , and adance ensemble. The songs they perform range fromRussia n folk tunes to church hymns, operatic arias and popular music; examples include "The Volga Boatmen's Song ","Katyusha", "Kalinka" Audio|Red Army Choir - Kalinka.ogg|sample, "Kernina" and "Ave Maria". After the Soviet period, the ensemble has continued performing, entertaining audiences both inside and outside Russia.History The ensemble was formed out of the Frunze red army central house in 1928. Under the name "Red army song ensemble of the M. V. Frunze red army central house" or the "Red army choir", twelve soldier-performers - a vocal octet, a bayan player, 2dance rs, and a reciter - officially performed for the first time onOctober 12 , 1928 under the direction of their conductor, Alexandr Alexandrov, a young music professor at the Moscow Conservatory. The program, entitled "The 22nd Krasnodar Division in Song", consisted mainly of short musical scenes of military life, including "Songs of the First Cavalry Army", "The Special Far-Eastern Army", and "Song about Magnitostroi".In 1929, the ensemble visited the far eastern lands of the Soviet Union, entertaining the troops working on the Far Eastern railway. With the goal of developing amateur art within the ranks of the army and to encourage soldiers' interest in good music, the ensemble grew to 300 performers by 1933, comprising three different forces of a male choir, an orchestra, and an ensemble of dancers. The Red army choir became known as a propagator of Soviet songs, performing original compositions by composers such as Vasily Solovyov-Sedoy, Anatoli Novikov, Matvey Blanter and Boris Mokrousov.In 1935, the choir was bestowed the Order of the Red Banner and was named to the "Red army red-bannered song and dance ensemble of the USSR".Having traveled widely throughout the Soviet Union, from the Arctic north to the sands of Tajikistan , the choir performed at the International Exposition dedicated to Art and Technology in Modern Life held in 1937 inParis ,France ; it won the "", the highest honor bestowed by the jury.During World War II , the ensemble gave over 1500 performances at both Soviet fronts, entertaining troops about to go into battle, at gun emplacements, airfields, and in hospitals.After Alexandrov's death in 1946, Boris Alexandrov, his son, went on to succeed his father as musical director for the ensemble. In 1949 the ensemble was named officially to the "A. V. Alexandrov Soviet army twice red-bannered and red-starred song and dance ensemble", so it was not the Red army choir any more. In 1978 the ensemble was renamed to the "A. V. Aleksandrov Soviet army twice red-bannered and red-starred academic song and dance ensemble". Boris Alexandrov led the ensemle on worldwide tours, before finally retiring in 1987. He was succeeded by Igor Agafonnikov the same year, with Anatoly Maltsev as the ensemble chief. He retired his career as the principal conductor in 1994 and was succeeded by Victor Fedorov, the chorus master since 1986. After the collapse of the Soviet Union the ensemble was bestowed theOrder of Red Star by the Russian presidentBoris Yeltsin in 1998 and at the same time was renamed to the "A. V. Alexandrov Russian army twice red-bannered academic song and dance ensemble".Today, the ensemble is led by Vyacheslav Korobko, who has been leading it since 2003. Over the years, the ensemble has collaborated with many popular artists and producers including David Foster ,Jean-Jacques Goldman andSteve Barakatt .Composition Chorus The choir, like other male choirs, consists of three vocal sections of tenor ,baritone , and bass. In most of the pieces they perform, however, these sections are divided into even more sections, resulting in producing as many as eight different vocal lines.Orchestra The orchestra, in what became a typical composition for later generations of military ensembles in the Soviet Union, has a mixed composition of Russian traditional instruments and western instruments, including the balalaika , thedomra , the bayan, thedouble bass , woodwinds, brass, and percussion instruments.Dancers Among the dances staged by the ensemble are "Zaparozhtsi Dance", "Cossack's Cavalry Dance", "Festive March", "Dance of the Cossacks", "Soldier's Dance", and "Sailor's Dance". Some of these are performed by mixed dancers, while others, such as "Cossack's Cavalry Dance", are performed by male dancers only. The Wall Concert In 1990, the ensemble participated in Roger Waters ' The Wall concert celebrating the fall of theBerlin Wall . They performed an anti-war song, "Bring the Boys Back Home".International acclaim In 1993 the ensemble became an item of pop culture by performing together with the Finnish cult band Leningrad Cowboys both inHelsinki ,Finland where they performed on the Senate Square in front of 70,000 ecstatic listeners, and inBerlin . In the German capital the concert of the Leningrad Cowboys with the ensemble took place on the centralLustgarten and gave the former Red Army's farewell to Berlin and the whole Germany an optimistic overtone.The Finnish concert was made into a rockumentary "Total Balalaika Show " by film directorAki Kaurismäki .That year they also made a CD and played a concert with french singer Jean-Jacques Goldman .External links * [http://www.ensemble-aleksandrova.ru Homepages of the Alexandrov ensemble] (Russian) Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Songs of World War II by The Red Army Choir - SonicHits] ---
The Soviet ensemble was created by F. N. Danilovich, director P. I. Ilyin a… Read Full Bio ↴The Soviet ensemble was created by F. N. Danilovich, director P. I. Ilyin and choirmaster A. V. Aleksandrov. The main organiser and the first musical director of the ensemble was the professor of the Moscow Conservatory named after P. I. Tchaikovsky , later People's Artist of the USSR , composer Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov (1883-1946); he led the ensemble for 18 years. The first performance of the Ensemble took place in the Central House of the Red Army, October 12, 1928. The team consisted of 12 people: 8 singers, 2 dancers, an accordion player and a reader. The performance was a great success - and after it the decision to create the ensemble was finally approved. October 12, 1928 is considered to be the birthday of the military creative team. On December 1, 1928, the ensemble was enrolled in the staff of the Central House of Arts and was named the Red Army Song Ensemble of the Central House of the Red Army named after M.V. Frunze . Since November 27, 1935 it was named the Red Banner Ensemble of the Red Army Song and Dance of the USSR . On this day, the Central Executive Committee of the USSR issued a resolution on awarding the team with the Honorary Revolutionary Red Banner with the Order of the Red Star attached to it . At the same time, the head of the ensemble A. V. Alexandrov was awarded the same order , and 10 participants, the head P. I. Ilyin and 2 organizers F. N. Danilovich and A. S. Gorsky became holders of the Order of the Badge of Honor introduced the day before. By December 1, 1935, the team had grown to 135 people. One of the distinguishing features of the ensemble is the presence in the orchestra of Russian folk instruments - domra and balalaika . Nowadays, The Alexandrov Ensemble (also known as the Red Army Choir) is an official army choir of the Russian armed forces. The Ensemble has entertained audiences both in the Soviet Union and throughout the world, performing a range of music including folk tunes, hymns, operatic arias and popular music. The group's repertoire has included The Volga Boatmen's Song, Katyusha, Kalinka, and Ave Maria. It is named for its first director, Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov (1883–1946). Its formal name since 1998 has been A. V. Alexandrov Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Russian Army (Russian: Академический ансамбль песни и пляски Российской Армии имени А. В. Александрова, Akademichesky ensemble pesni i plyaski Rossiyskoy Armii imeni A. V. Alexandrova), shortened to Academic Ensemble (Академический ансамбль, Akademichesky ensemble) on second reference. On 25 December 2016, its artistic director, Valery Khalilov, and 63 other members of the Ensemble were killed in the Russian Defence Ministry aircraft crash of a 1983 Tupolev Tu-154 into the Black Sea just after takeoff from the southern resort city of Sochi, Russia. The Red Army Choir singers and dancers were en route to Syria to entertain Russian troops there for Orthodox Christmas celebrations. At the establishment, in 1928, the choir was named Red Army Song Ensemble of the M. V. Frunze Red Army Central House (Ансамбль красноармейской песни Центрального дома Красной Армии имени М. В. Фрунзе). In 1935, it was renamed Red-Bannered Red Army Song and Dance Ensemble of the USSR (Краснознамённый ансамбль красноармейской песни и пляски СССР). In 1949 the ensemble was officially named the A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army (Дважды Краснознамённый ордена Красной Звезды ансамбль песни и пляски Советской Армии имени А. В. Александрова). In 1978 the word "academic" was added to the title (A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army). After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the ensemble received its present name in 1998. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Army_Choir The first performance of the Ensemble took place in the Central House of the Red Army, October 12, 1928. The team consisted of 12 people: 8 singers, 2 dancers, an accordion player and a reader. The performance was a great success - and after it the decision to create the ensemble was finally approved. October 12, 1928 is considered to be the birthday of the military creative team. On December 1, 1928, the ensemble was enrolled in the staff of the Central House of Arts and was named the Red Army Song Ensemble of the Central House of the Red Army named after M.V. Frunze . Since November 27, 1935 it was named the Red Banner Ensemble of the Red Army Song and Dance of the USSR . On this day, the Central Executive Committee of the USSR issued a resolution on awarding the team with the Honorary Revolutionary Red Banner with the Order of the Red Star attached to it . At the same time, the head of the ensemble A. V. Alexandrov was awarded the same order , and 10 participants, the head P. I. Ilyin and 2 organizers F. N. Danilovich and A. S. Gorsky became holders of the Order of the Badge of Honor introduced the day before. By December 1, 1935, the team had grown to 135 people. One of the distinguishing features of the ensemble is the presence in the orchestra of Russian folk instruments - domra and balalaika . Nowadays, The Alexandrov Ensemble (also known as the Red Army Choir) is an official army choir of the Russian armed forces. The Ensemble has entertained audiences both in the Soviet Union and throughout the world, performing a range of music including folk tunes, hymns, operatic arias and popular music. The group's repertoire has included The Volga Boatmen's Song, Katyusha, Kalinka, and Ave Maria. It is named for its first director, Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov (1883–1946). Its formal name since 1998 has been A. V. Alexandrov Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Russian Army (Russian: Академический ансамбль песни и пляски Российской Армии имени А. В. Александрова, Akademichesky ensemble pesni i plyaski Rossiyskoy Armii imeni A. V. Alexandrova), shortened to Academic Ensemble (Академический ансамбль, Akademichesky ensemble) on second reference. On 25 December 2016, its artistic director, Valery Khalilov, and 63 other members of the Ensemble were killed in the Russian Defence Ministry aircraft crash of a 1983 Tupolev Tu-154 into the Black Sea just after takeoff from the southern resort city of Sochi, Russia. The Red Army Choir singers and dancers were en route to Syria to entertain Russian troops there for Orthodox Christmas celebrations. At the establishment, in 1928, the choir was named Red Army Song Ensemble of the M. V. Frunze Red Army Central House (Ансамбль красноармейской песни Центрального дома Красной Армии имени М. В. Фрунзе). In 1935, it was renamed Red-Bannered Red Army Song and Dance Ensemble of the USSR (Краснознамённый ансамбль красноармейской песни и пляски СССР). In 1949 the ensemble was officially named the A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army (Дважды Краснознамённый ордена Красной Звезды ансамбль песни и пляски Советской Армии имени А. В. Александрова). In 1978 the word "academic" was added to the title (A. V. Alexandrov Twice Red-bannered and Red-starred Academic Song and Dance Ensemble of the Soviet Army). After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the ensemble received its present name in 1998. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Army_Choir Songs of World War II The Red Army Choir Lyrics We have lyrics for these tracks by The Red Army Choir: Ah Nastassia Эх, Настасья, эх, Настасья! Отворяй-ка ворота Ой люшеньки лю… Along Peterskaia Street Эх, вдоль по Питерской, по Тверской-Ямской, Да, ох, ой, по Т… Bella Ciao Bella ciao - Итальянский Una mattina mi son svegliato O bel… Civil War Songs Мы - красные кавалеристы и про нас Былинники речистые ведут … Coming Back from Berlin Yehal ya iz berlina Po doroge priyamoy Na poputni mashina Eh… Cossack's Song Шли по степи полки казачьи с Дону Один казак лишь голову… Dark Eyes Ochi Chyorniye Ochi chyorniye, och strastniye! Ochi Zhguchi… Do Russians Want War ? Хотят ли русские войны? Спросите вы у тишины Над ширью пашен… Echelon's Song Эшелонная (Песня о Ворошилове) - Echelon Song - Song for…Farewell of Slavianka The post-WWII Version(Red Army Choir) Этот марш не смолка… Gandzia Chy ye v sviti molodytsya, Yak ta Handzya bilolytsya? Okh, s… Hava Naguila Hava nagila Hava nagila Hava nagila venismejá Hava neranená… If War Would Be Tomorrow Yesli zavtra voyna, yesli vrag atak Yesli temnyye sily prikh… In the Central Steppes Степь да степь кругом Путь далёк лежит Степь да степь круго… It Came Upon a Midnight Clear It came upon the midnight clear That glorious song of old Fr… Kalinka Kalinka, kalinka, kalinka maya, f sadu yagoda malinka, mal… Katioucha Расцветали яблони и груши Поплыли туманы над рекой Выходила … Korobeiniki Ой, полна, полна коробушка, есть и ситцы и парча Пожалей, мо… Korobelniki Korobeiniki (Коробейники) Ой, полным, полна моя коробушка Е… L'hymne national russe Союз нерушимый республик свободных Сплотила навеки Великая Р… La Marseillaise Allons enfants de la Patrie, Le jour de gloire est arrive! C… Little Drummer Boy Come, they told me pa-rum pum pum pum Our newborn King… Moscow Nights Подмосковные вечера (Музыка: В. Соловьев-Седой-1957) Не слы… My army "Армия моя" музыка Дмитрия Покрасса (1970-е гг.) Если на От… My Country Вижу чудное приволье, Вижу нивы и поля. Это русское раздолье… My Love Я уходил тогда в поход В суровые края Ладкном взмахнула у во… National Anthem of the USSR Союз нерушимый республик свободных Сплотила навеки Великая … National Anthem of USSR Allons enfants de la patrie Le jour de gloire est arrive C… Nessun Dorma Nessun dorma! Nessun dorma! Tu pure, o principessa Nella tu… Nightingales Соловьи, соловьи, не тревожьте солдат Пусть солдаты немного … O Come All Ye Faithful Oh, come ye O come ye to Bethlehem Come and behold him Born… O Little Town of Bethlehem Oh little town of Bethlehem, how still we see thee… Oh Fields My Fields Полюшко-поле (1934) Полюшко-поле, полюшко, широко поле, Eду… On the Road В путь-дорогу Ничего нет на свете прекрасней дороги! Не жал… Our Power Да здравствует наша держава Отчизна великих идей Страна всен…Partisan's Song По долинам и по взгорьям Шла дивизия вперед Чтобы с боем взя… Plaine Ma Plaine Полюшко-поле Полюшко, широко поле Едут здесь по полю герои Э… Rostov's City Мы жили в этом городе Любили в этом городе Ходили в этом… Russian National Anthem Россия – священная наша держава Россия – любимая наша страна… Russian Song Россия — священная наша держава, Россия — любимая наша стран… Smuglianka Смуглянка Date: 1944 Как-то летом на рассвете Заглянул в со… The Birch Tree Vo polye byeryoza stayala, vo polye kudryavaya stayala, lyul… The Cliff Есть на Волге утёс, диким мохом оброс Он с вершины до… The Cossacks Red Army Choir: The Cossacks Шли по степи полки казачьи с… The Dark Eyes Oči čёrnye, oči žgučie, Oči strastnye i prekrasnye, Kak ljub… The Legend of Twelve Robbers Odnozvuchno gremit kolokol′chik Oh, how lonely the coach bel… The Little Drummer Boy Come, they told me pa-rum pum pum pum Our newborn King… The Partisan's Song По долинам и по взгорьям Шла дивизия вперёд Чтобы с бою взят… The Path В путь-дорогу Ничего нет на свете прекрасней дороги! Не жал… The Red Cavalery Мы - красные кавалеристы И про нас Былинники речистые Ведут … The Roads В путь-дорогу Ничего нет на свете прекрасней дороги! Не жал… The Russian Anthem Россия — священная наша держава, Россия — любимая наша стран… The Sacred War Вставай, страна огромная Вставай на смертный бой С фашистско… The Samovars The Samovars The Red Army Choir Никогда не умирала Слава ту… The Sun Sets Behind the Mountain Солнце скрылось за горою Затуманились речные перекаты А доро… Troika Тройка мчится, тройка скачет Вьётся пыль из-под копыт Колоко… Troika Gallop Запрягу я тройку борзу тёмногривых лошадей И помчусь я в ноч… Troika Galop Эх, тачанка-ростовчанка, Наша гордость и краса, Конармейская… Troika's Gallop Запрягу я тройку борзу тёмногривых лошадей И помчусь я в ноч… Turandot Nessun Dorma Nessun dorma! Nessun dorma! Tu pure, o principessa Nella tu… Varchavianka Vikhri vrazhdebnye veiut nad nami, Temnye sily nas zlobno gn… The lyrics are frequently found in the comments by searching or by filtering for lyric videos More Genres No Artists Found More Artists Load All No Albums Found More Albums Load All No Tracks Found Genre not found Artist not found Album not found Search results not found Song not found


--- [Alexandrov Ensemble Explained] ---
Ask the publishers to restore access to 500,000+ books. Search the history of more than 1 trillion web pages. Capture a web page as it appears now for use as a trusted citation in the future. Please enter a valid web address Loading... http://everything.explained.today/Red_Army_Choir/ | 19:25:14 January 23, 2016 Got an HTTP 302 response at crawl time Redirecting to... /Alexandrov_Ensemble/ Impatient?
