=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Enabling Act of 1933 - Wikipedia]
The Enabling Act of 1933 (German: Ermächtigungsgesetz, officially titled Gesetz zur Behebung der Not von Volk und Reich lit. 'Law to Remedy the Distress of People and Reich ') [1] was a law that gave the German Cabinet —most importantly, the chancellor, Adolf Hitler —the power to make and enforce laws without the involvement of the Reichstag or President Paul von Hindenburg. By allowing ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enabling_Act_of_1933

[The Enabling Act of 1933 | Holocaust Encyclopedia]
Jun 2, 2025 · The Enabling Act allowed the Reich government to issue laws without the consent of Germany’s parliament, laying the foundation for the complete Nazification of German society. The law was passed on March 23, 1933, and published the following day. Its full name was the “Law to Remedy the Distress of the People and the Reich.”
URL: https://encyclopedia.ushmm.org/content/en/article/the-enabling-act

[The 1933 election and Enabling Act - Consolidation of power - WJEC ...]
The 1933 election and Enabling Act On 5 March 1933, the Nazi Party won 44 per cent of the vote, which gave them 288 seats in the Reichstag.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/z3kqrwx/revision/3

[March 1933 German federal election - Wikipedia]
March 1933 German federal election ... Federal elections were held in Germany on 5 March 1933, after the Nazi seizure of power on 30 January and just six days after the Reichstag fire.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_1933_German_federal_election

[The Enabling Act: even more power for Hitler | Anne Frank House]
On 23 March 1933, the German parliament voted in favour of the 'Enabling Act' by a large majority. The Act allowed Hitler to enact new laws without interference from the president or the Reichstag (German parliament) for a period of four years. In his speech on that day, Hitler gave those present the choice 'between war or peace'. It was a veiled threat to intimidate any dissenters. With ...
URL: https://www.annefrank.org/en/timeline/48/the-enabling-act-even-more-power-for-hitler/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Enabling Act of 1933 - Wikipedia] ---
The Enabling Act of 1933 (German: Ermächtigungsgesetz, officially titled Gesetz zur Behebung der Not von Volk und Reich lit. 'Law to Remedy the Distress of People and Reich') was a law that gave the German Cabinet—most importantly, the chancellor, Adolf Hitler—the power to make and enforce laws without the involvement of the Reichstag or President Paul von Hindenburg. By allowing the chancellor to override the checks and balances in the constitution, the Enabling Act of 1933 was a pivotal step in the transition from the democratic Weimar Republic to the totalitarian dictatorship of Nazi Germany.


--- [The Enabling Act of 1933 | Holocaust Encyclopedia] ---
The Enabling Act The Enabling Act allowed the Reich government to issue laws without the consent of Germany’s parliament, laying the foundation for the complete Nazification of German society. The law was passed on March 23, 1933, and published the following day. Its full name was the “Law to Remedy the Distress of the People and the Reich.” Key Facts - 1 Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party used intimidation and persecution to ensure the passage of the Enabling Act of 1933. They prevented all 81 Communists and 26 of the 120 Social Democrats from taking their seats, detaining them in Nazi-controlled camps. - 2 German judges did not challenge the Enabling Act. They viewed Hitler's government as legitimate and continued to regard themselves as state servants who owed him their allegiance and support. - 3 The Enabling Act became the cornerstone of Hitler's dictatorship. Background The Law to Remedy the Distress of the People and the Reich is also known as the Enabling Act. Passed on March 23, 1933, and proclaimed the next day, it became the cornerstone of Adolf Hitler's dictatorship. The act allowed Hitler to enact laws, including ones that violated the Weimar Constitution, without approval of either parliament or Reich President von Hindenburg. Since the passage of this law depended upon a two-thirds majority vote in parliament, Hitler and the Nazi Party used intimidation and persecution to ensure the outcome they desired. They prevented all 81 Communists and 26 of the 120 Social Democrats from taking their seats, detaining them in so-called protective detention in Nazi-controlled camps. In addition, they stationed SA and SS members in the chamber to intimidate the remaining representatives and guarantee their compliance. In the end, the law passed with more than the required two-thirds majority, with only Social Democrats voting against it. The Supreme Court did nothing to challenge the legitimacy of this measure. Instead, it accepted the majority vote, overlooking the absence of the Communist delegates and the Social Democrats who were under arrest. In fact, most judges were convinced of the legitimacy of the process and did not understand why the Nazis proclaimed a “Nazi Revolution.” Erich Schultze, one of the first Supreme Court judges to join the Nazi Party, declared that the term “revolution” did not refer to an overthrow of the established order but rather to Hitler's radically different ideas. In the end, German judges—who were among the few who might have challenged Nazi objectives—viewed Hitler's government as legitimate and continued to regard themselves as state servants who owed him their allegiance and support. Translation of The Enabling Act of 1933 Translated from Reichsgesetzblatt I, 1933, p. 141. The Reichstag has enacted the following law, which has the agreement of the Reichsrat and meets the requirements for a constitutional amendment, which is hereby announced: Article 1 In addition to the procedure prescribed by the Constitution, laws of the Reich may also be enacted by the Reich Government. This includes laws as referred to by Articles 85, Sentence 2, and Article 87 of the Constitution. Article 2 Laws enacted by the Reich Government may deviate from the Constitution as long as they do not affect the institutions of the Reichstag and the Reichsrat. The rights of the President remain undisturbed. Article 3 Laws enacted by the Reich Government shall be issued by the Chancellor and announced in the Reichsgesetzblatt. They shall take effect on the day following the announcement, unless they prescribe a different date. Articles 68 to 77 of the Constitution do not apply to laws enacted by the Reich Government. Article 4 Reich treaties with foreign states that affect matters of Reich legislation shall not require the approval of the bodies concerned with legislation. The Reich Government shall issue the regulations required for the execution of such treaties. Article 5 This law takes effect with the day of its proclamation. It loses force on April 1, 1937, or if the present Reich Government is replaced by another. Berlin, March 24, 1933 The Reich President von Hindenburg Reich Chancellor Adolf Hitler Reich Minister of the Interior Frick Reich Minister of Foreign Affairs Freiherr von Neurath Reich Minister of Finance Graf Schwerin von Krosigk Critical Thinking Questions How can the title of a law or governmental program disguise its true intent? How can the use of emergency legislation or powers be a warning sign for genocide or mass atrocities later on?


--- [The 1933 election and Enabling Act - Consolidation of power - WJEC ...] ---
In January 1933, leading a coalition government with only two other Nazis in the cabinet, Hitler was expected to only survive a short period as Chancellor. However just 18 months later, he declared himself the sole ruler and Führer of Germany. How did the Nazis consolidate their power between 1933 and 1934? Part of HistoryGermany in transition, 1919-1939


--- [March 1933 German federal election - Wikipedia] ---
Federal elections were held in Germany on 5 March 1933, after the Nazi seizure of power on 30 January and just six days after the Reichstag fire. The election saw Nazi stormtroopers unleash a widespread campaign of violence against the Communist Party (KPD), left-wingers, trade unionists, the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party. They were the last multi-party elections in a united Germany until the all-German vote in 1990, though by 1933, the democratic process had ceased to be free or fair.
The 1933 election followed the previous year's two elections (July and November) and Hitler's appointment as Chancellor. In the months before the 1933 election, SA and SS displayed "terror, repression and propaganda ... across the land", and Nazi organizations "monitored" the vote process. In Prussia, 50,000 members of the SS, SA and Der Stahlhelm were ordered to monitor the votes by acting Interior Minister Hermann Göring, as auxiliary police.
The Nazi Party (NSDAP) experienced a sharp rise in support compared to the November 1932 election, and together with its coalition partner, the German National People's Party (DNVP), secured a majority in the Reichstag. This marked the first time since 1930 that a governing coalition held a clear parliamentary majority. However, the election was far from fair. Carried out in an atmosphere of intimidation and violence against political opponents, it was skewed heavily in the Nazis' favour. Even so, they alone received only 43.9 percent of the vote, falling short of the numbers needed to govern without a partner.
Though now in possession of a working majority, Hitler pushed further. On 23 March, just two weeks after the vote, he passed the Enabling Act of 1933 with the support of the DNVP and the Centre Party, granting him the power to rule by decree. This act effectively dismantled parliamentary democracy and gave Hitler dictatorial authority. In the months that followed, the Nazi regime banned all other political parties and turned the Reichstag into a rubberstamp body composed solely of Nazis and their pro-Nazi "guests", extinguishing all remaining traces of democratic governance. This would be the last contested election held in Germany until after World War II.


--- [The Enabling Act: even more power for Hitler | Anne Frank House] ---
On 23 March 1933, the German parliament voted in favour of the ‘Enabling Act’ by a large majority. The Act allowed Hitler to enact new laws without interference from the president or the Reichstag (German parliament) for a period of four years. In his speech on that day, Hitler gave those present the choice 'between war or peace'. It was a veiled threat to intimidate any dissenters. With 444 votes in favour and 94 against, the Reichstag adopted the Enabling Act. Only the Social Democrats voted against it. The vote could hardly be called democratic: The Reichstag was surrounded by members of the SA and the SS, the armed branches of the NSDAP. The Communist Party was absent because its members had been arrested or were on the run. Twenty-six Social Democrats did not vote for the same reason. This law allowed Hitler to rule Germany as a dictator from then on.
