=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jan Kalicki - Wikipedia]
Works Kalicki published 13 papers on logical matrices and equational logic in the five years before his death. [1][3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_Kalicki

[Jan Kalicki - 1953) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. Logical matrices were defined by Łukasiewicz and Tarski in 1930.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Kalicki/

[Kalicki, Jan - bookofproofs.github.io]
Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. In On Tarski's matrix method (1948), Kalicki defines the sum , the product and also a partial ordering of logical matrices.
URL: https://bookofproofs.github.io/history/20th-century/kalicki.html

[Jan Kalicki]
Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. Logical matrices ...
URL: https://ns1.almerja.com/more.php?idm=94660

[Grokipedia: Jan Kalicki]
Learn more about Jan Kalicki on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Jan_Kalicki


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jan Kalicki - Wikipedia] ---
Jan Kalicki (28 January 1922 – 25 November 1953) was a Polish mathematician who investigated logical matrices.


--- [Jan Kalicki - 1953) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Jan Kalicki Quick Info Warsaw, Poland Contra Costa County, USA Biography Jan Kalicki attended secondary school in his home town of Warsaw, graduating from the school in May 1939. During the summer of 1939 as Kalicki waited to begin his university education, Europe moved closer to war. On 1 September Germany invaded Poland and Warsaw was bombed on the following day. Warsaw was quickly encircled by the invading German armies and on 17 September the Russian armies invaded Poland from the east occupying Lwów (now Lviv in Ukraine) five days later. On 27 September Warsaw surrendered to the attacking German forces and the University of Warsaw was closed down.There was an impressive collection of mathematicians at the University of Warsaw at this time including Borsuk, Łukasiewicz, Mazurkiewicz, Sierpiński, Mostowski, Kuratowski and others. They, together with colleagues in other disciplines, organised an underground version of the University of Warsaw which was strongly opposed by the Nazi authorities. There was a strategy by the Nazis to put an end to the intellectual life of Poland and to achieve this they sent many academics to concentration camps and murdered others. Borsuk, for example, was imprisoned after the authorities found that he was helping to run the underground university. It was in these extraordinarily difficult conditions that Kalicki received his university education, studying mathematics and philosophy. Kuratowski wrote of the underground university in which Kalicki was educated:- Due to that underground organisation, and in spite of extremely difficult conditions, scientific work and teaching continued, though on a considerably smaller scale of course. The importance of clandestine education consisted among others in keeping up the spirit of resistance, as well as optimism and confidence in the future, which was so necessary in the conditions of occupation. The conditions of a scientist's life at that time were truly tragic. Most painful were the human losses.When the Soviet forces came close to Warsaw in 1944, the Warsaw Resistance rose up against the weakened German garrison. However German reinforcements arrived and put down resistance. Around 160,000 people died in the Warsaw Uprising of 1944 and the city was left in a state of almost total devastation. Kalicki survived and after the war ended in 1945 he was awarded an M.A. in both philosophy and mathematics. After spending 1945-46 as a teaching assistant at the Universities of Lòdz and Warsaw he went to London in England. Financed by a British Council Scholarship for two years, Kalicki studied at the University of London, receiving his doctorate in mathematical logic in July 1948. While studying in London he married Mireya Jaimes-Freyre in 1947. They had one son who was given the name of Jan Kalicki, the same name as his father. By the time Kalicki was awarded his doctorate Poland was a communist controlled country which Kalicki felt would not encourage free thinking academic studies. He decided to remain in England and was appointed to a mathematics lectureship in Woolwich Polytechnic, London. After a year in this post he went to the University of Leeds where he was appointed as a Lecturer in Mathematics. He remained in Leeds until 1951 when he accepted an appointment in the United States as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the University of California, Berkeley. Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. Logical matrices were defined by Łukasiewicz and Tarski in 1930. In On Tarski's matrix method (1948), Kalicki defines the sum , the product and also a partial ordering of logical matrices. His operations of addition "+" and multiplication "." are associative and commutative, and there is an identity for each operation. If is a logical matrix then let be the set of well-formed expressions which satisfy . Kalicki's operations of addition and multiplication now satisfy and . In 1950 he defined an algebra binary connective on truth tables in Note on truth-tables published in the Journal of Symbolic Logic. The truth tables involve a finite number of truth values, some designated and some undesignated. Corresponding to each truth table , Kalicki considers the set of all formulae formed from variables and the connective , which are tautologies for . The product of two truth tables and is defined to be a truth table formed from and in such a way that the set of tautologies corresponding to it is the intersection of the tautology sets for and . In a similar way the sum of two truth tables is defined having its tautology set as the union of the tautology sets of and . Kalicki defines relations of isomorphism, equivalence, and inclusion of truth tables. Particular truth tables and are defined which play the role of the zero element and the identity element in the algebra. The resulting system resembles a lattice. The next paper in the same part of the Journal of Symbolic Logic is also by Kalicki. It is A test for the existence of tautologies according to many-valued truth-tables in which Kalicki gives an effective procedure to decide whether the set of tautologies determined by a given truth table with a finite number of truth-values is empty. Two years later another paper by Kalicki in the Journal of Symbolic Logic is A test for the equality of truth-tables which gives a necessary and sufficient condition for the equivalence of two truth-tables. However for the problem of deciding whether two infinite-valued truth-tables are equal is unsolvable as Kalicki showed in a paper which was not published until 1954 after his death. Kalicki's first appointment at the University of California was as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Berkeley where Tarski was working, but after one year he obtained a permanent appointment as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Davis campus. After one further year he returned to Berkeley in 1953, this time as Assistant Professor of Philosophy. He had only been in post for three months when he died in a car accident on a quiet Contra Costa County road. B Mates, L Henkin and A Tarski, give details of Kalicki's character in an obituary:- It is primarily as a person, even more than as a scholar, that he is missed by those who knew him. In this regard, we recall that there was a certain sweetness and depth about him that is difficult to describe. He was always straightforward and absolutely sincere, modest nearly to the point of shyness. He had unbounded confidence that almost anybody could be brought to an understanding of the fundamental results of modern logic if only he, Kalicki, could find the right words. His very optimism in this regard endeared him to the students. Indeed, one can say that it even contributed toward making itself well-founded. Kalicki had remarkable success with the type of students who consider themselves hopelessly incapable of mastering things mathematical. In him they found a person who had no inclination to deride or blame them for being slow and who saw in their perplexities only an indication that he must contrive to illuminate the subject from still another point of view. At the same time, he was always able to produce something of special interest for the students of greater aptitude. His great affection for the students was warmly returned by them, and their mourning upon his death will never be forgotten by those who witnessed it. References (show) - J Zygmunt, The logical investigations of Jan Kalicki, Hist. Philos. Logic 2 (1981), 41-53. Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Jan Kalicki: Other websites about Jan Kalicki: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update November 2004 Last Update November 2004


--- [Kalicki, Jan - bookofproofs.github.io] ---
Person: Kalicki, Jan Jan Kalicki was a Polish mathematician who worked on logical matrices and equational logic. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): - During the summer of 1939 as Kalicki waited to begin his university education, Europe moved closer to war. - It was in these extraordinarily difficult conditions that Kalicki received his university education, studying mathematics and philosophy. - Kalicki survived and after the war ended in 1945 he was awarded an M.A. in both philosophy and mathematics. - Financed by a British Council Scholarship for two years, Kalicki studied at the University of London, receiving his doctorate in mathematical logic in July 1948. - By the time Kalicki was awarded his doctorate Poland was a communist controlled country which Kalicki felt would not encourage free thinking academic studies. - Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. - In On Tarski's matrix method (1948), Kalicki defines the sum , the product and also a partial ordering of logical matrices. - Corresponding to each truth table MMM, Kalicki considers the set of all formulae formed from variables and the connective DDD, which are tautologies for MMM. - Kalicki defines relations of isomorphism, equivalence, and inclusion of truth tables. - The next paper in the same part of the Journal of Symbolic Logic is also by Kalicki. - It is A test for the existence of tautologies according to many-valued truth-tables in which Kalicki gives an effective procedure to decide whether the set of tautologies determined by a given truth table with a finite number of truth-values is empty. - Two years later another paper by Kalicki in the Journal of Symbolic Logic is A test for the equality of truth-tables which gives a necessary and sufficient condition for the equivalence of two truth-tables. - However for the problem of deciding whether two infinite-valued truth-tables are equal is unsolvable as Kalicki showed in a paper which was not published until 1954 after his death. - Kalicki's first appointment at the University of California was as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Berkeley where Tarski was working, but after one year he obtained a permanent appointment as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Davis campus. - He had unbounded confidence that almost anybody could be brought to an understanding of the fundamental results of modern logic if only he, Kalicki, could find the right words. - Kalicki had remarkable success with the type of students who consider themselves hopelessly incapable of mastering things mathematical. Born 28 January 1922, Warsaw, Poland. Died 25 November 1953, Contra Costa County, USA. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: Origin Poland Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! - Github: - - non-Github: - @J-J-O'Connor - @E-F-Robertson References Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: - O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive


--- [Jan Kalicki] ---
تاريخ الرياضيات الاعداد و نظريتها تاريخ التحليل تار يخ الجبر الهندسة و التبلوجي الرياضيات في الحضارات المختلفة العربية اليونانية البابلية الصينية المايا المصرية الهندية الرياضيات المتقطعة المنطق اسس الرياضيات فلسفة الرياضيات مواضيع عامة في المنطق الجبر الجبر الخطي الجبر المجرد الجبر البولياني مواضيع عامة في الجبر الضبابية نظرية المجموعات نظرية الزمر نظرية الحلقات والحقول نظرية الاعداد نظرية الفئات حساب المتجهات المتتاليات-المتسلسلات المصفوفات و نظريتها المثلثات الهندسة الهندسة المستوية الهندسة غير المستوية مواضيع عامة في الهندسة التفاضل و التكامل المعادلات التفاضلية و التكاملية معادلات تفاضلية معادلات تكاملية مواضيع عامة في المعادلات التحليل التحليل العددي التحليل العقدي التحليل الدالي مواضيع عامة في التحليل التحليل الحقيقي التبلوجيا نظرية الالعاب الاحتمالات و الاحصاء نظرية التحكم بحوث العمليات نظرية الكم الشفرات الرياضيات التطبيقية نظريات ومبرهنات علماء الرياضيات 500AD 500-1499 1000to1499 1500to1599 1600to1649 1650to1699 1700to1749 1750to1779 1780to1799 1800to1819 1820to1829 1830to1839 1840to1849 1850to1859 1860to1864 1865to1869 1870to1874 1875to1879 1880to1884 1885to1889 1890to1894 1895to1899 1900to1904 1905to1909 1910to1914 1915to1919 1920to1924 1925to1929 1930to1939 1940to the present علماء الرياضيات الرياضيات في العلوم الاخرى بحوث و اطاريح جامعية هل تعلم طرائق التدريس الرياضيات العامة نظرية البيان Jan Kalicki المؤلف: J Zygmunt المصدر: The logical investigations of Jan Kalicki, Hist. Philos. Logic 2 الجزء والصفحة: ... 22-1-2018 9687 Died: 25 November 1953 in Contra Costa County, USA Jan Kalicki attended secondary school in his home town of Warsaw, graduating from the school in May 1939. During the summer of 1939 as Kalicki waited to begin his university education, Europe moved closer to war. On 1 September Germany invaded Poland and Warsaw was bombed on the following day. Warsaw was quickly encircled by the invading German armies and on 17 September the Russian armies invaded Poland from the east occupying Lvov five days later. On 27 September Warsaw surrendered to the attacking German forces and the University of Warsaw was closed down. There was an impressive collection of mathematicians at the University of Warsaw at this time including Borsuk, Lukasiewicz, Mazurkiewicz, Sierpinski, Mostowski, Kuratowski and others. They, together with colleagues in other disciplines, organised an underground version of the University of Warsaw which was strongly opposed by the Nazi authorities. There was a strategy by the Nazis to put an end to the intellectual life of Poland and to achieve this they sent many academics to concentration camps and murdered others. Borsuk, for example, was imprisoned after the authorities found that he was helping to run the underground university. It was in these extraordinarily difficult conditions that Kalicki received his university education, studying mathematics and philosophy. Kuratowski wrote of the underground university in which Kalicki was educated:- Due to that underground organisation, and in spite of extremely difficult conditions, scientific work and teaching continued, though on a considerably smaller scale of course. The importance of clandestine education consisted among others in keeping up the spirit of resistance, as well as optimism and confidence in the future, which was so necessary in the conditions of occupation. The conditions of a scientist's life at that time were truly tragic. Most painful were the human losses. When the Soviet forces came close to Warsaw in 1944, the Warsaw Resistance rose up against the weakened German garrison. However German reinforcements arrived and put down resistance. Around 160,000 people died in the Warsaw Uprising of 1944 and the city was left in a state of almost total devastation. Kalicki survived and after the war ended in 1945 he was awarded an M.A. in both philosophy and mathematics. After spending 1945-46 as a teaching assistant at the Universities of Lòdz and Warsaw he went to London in England. Financed by a British Council Scholarship for two years, Kalicki studied at the University of London, receiving his doctorate in mathematical logic in July 1948. While studying in London he married Mireya Jaimes-Freyre in 1947. They had one son who was given the name of Jan Kalicki, the same name as his father. By the time Kalicki was awarded his doctorate Poland was a communist controlled country which Kalicki felt would not encourage free thinking academic studies. He decided to remain in England and was appointed to a mathematics lectureship in Woolwich Polytechnic, London. After a year in this post he went to the University of Leeds where he was appointed as a Lecturer in Mathematics. He remained in Leeds until 1951 when he accepted an appointment in the United States as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the University of California, Berkeley. Kalicki worked on logical matrices and equational logic and published 13 papers on these topics from 1948 until his death five years later. Logical matrices were defined by Lukasiewicz and Tarski in 1930. In On Tarski's matrix method (1948), Kalicki defines the sum , the product, and also a partial ordering of logical matrices. His operations of addition "+" and multiplication "." are associative and commutative, and there is an identity for each operation. If A is a logical matrix then let E(A) be the set of well-formed expressions which satisfy A. Kalicki's operations of addition and multiplication now satisfy E(A + B) = E(A) + E(B) and E(A.B) = E(A).E(B). In 1950 he defined an algebra binary connective D on truth tables in Note on truth-tables published in the Journal of Symbolic Logic. The truth tables involve a finite number of truth values, some designated and some undesignated. Corresponding to each truth table M, Kalicki considers the set of all formulae formed from variables and the connective D, which are tautologies for M. The product A.B of two truth tables A and B is defined to be a truth table formed from A and B in such a way that the set of tautologies corresponding to it is the intersection of the tautology sets for A and B. In a similar way the sum A + Bof two truth tables is defined having its tautology set as the union of the tautology sets of A and B. Kalicki defines relations of isomorphism, equivalence, and inclusion of truth tables. Particular truth tables O and U are defined which play the role of the zero element and the identity element in the algebra. The resulting system resembles a lattice. The next paper in the same part of the Journal of Symbolic Logic is also by Kalicki. It is A test for the existence of tautologies according to many-valued truth-tables in which Kalicki gives an effective procedure to decide whether the set of tautologies determined by a given truth table with a finite number of truth-values is empty. Two years later another paper by Kalicki in the Journal of Symbolic Logic is A test for the equality of truth-tables which gives a necessary and sufficient condition for the equivalence of two truth-tables. However for the problem of deciding whether two infinite-valued truth-tables are equal is unsolvable as Kalicki showed in a paper which was not published until 1954 after his death. Kalicki's first appointment at the University of California was as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Berkeley where Tarski was working, but after one year he obtained a permanent appointment as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Davis campus. After one further year he returned to Berkeley in 1953, this time as Assistant Professor of Philosophy. He had only been in post for three months when he died in a car accident on a quiet Contra Costa County road. B Mates, L Henkin and A Tarski, give details of Kalicki's character in an obituary:- It is primarily as a person, even more than as a scholar, that he is missed by those who knew him. In this regard, we recall that there was a certain sweetness and depth about him that is difficult to describe. He was always straightforward and absolutely sincere, modest nearly to the point of shyness. He had unbounded confidence that almost anybody could be brought to an understanding of the fundamental results of modern logic if only he, Kalicki, could find the right words. His very optimism in this regard endeared him to the students. Indeed, one can say that it even contributed toward making itself well-founded. Kalicki had remarkable success with the type of students who consider themselves hopelessly incapable of mastering things mathematical. In him they found a person who had no inclination to deride or blame them for being slow and who saw in their perplexities only an indication that he must contrive to illuminate the subject from still another point of view. At the same time, he was always able to produce something of special interest for the students of greater aptitude. His great affection for the students was warmly returned by them, and their mourning upon his death will never be forgotten by those who witnessed it. Articles: - J Zygmunt, The logical investigations of Jan Kalicki, Hist. Philos. Logic 2 (1981), 41-53.


--- [Grokipedia: Jan Kalicki] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
