=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pak-China business council to be formed: Khusro - DAWN.COM]
Jun 22, 2019 · ISLAMABAD: Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar on Friday said that the government was considering to establish a Pak-China business council to promote private ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1489714

[Govt to set up Pak-China business council - ARY News]
Jul 13, 2019 · The two countries have also decided to establish a Pakistan-China Business Council with a view to include people from the private sector to implement industrial and agricultural development ...
URL: https://arynews.tv/govt-pak-china-business-council

[Govt decides to form Pak-China Business Forum - Daily ...]
Jul 13, 2019 · Planning Minister Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar revealed on Saturday that the government has decided to form a ‘Pak-China Business Council’, adding that names of leading businessmen have been forwarded to the Chinese embassy in this regard. Addressing a press conference in Islamabad, the minister said the second phase of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is being initiated and […]
URL: https://www.dailybusinessnews.pk/govt-decides-to-form-pak-china-business-forum/

[Govt to form Pak-China Business Council, establish CPEC Authority: Bakhtiar]
Jul 13, 2019 · Welcoming the alumni conference, the minister said such events prove quite helpful in understanding culture of each other country. CPEC “a manifestation of Pak-China relations” Later in the day, Bakhtiar held a press conference along with Advisor to the Prime Minister on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan.
URL: https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/500236-Govt-committed-to-much-needed-structural-reforms-Khusro

[Pak-China business council to be formed to promote private sector]
Pak-China business council to be formed to promote private sector: Khusro ... The minister was addressing the CPEC Forum-2019 organized by Zalmi Foundation in ...
URL: https://www.app.com.pk/national/pak-china-business-council-to-be-formed-to-promote-private-sector-khusro/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pak-China business council to be formed: Khusro - DAWN.COM] ---
ISLAMABAD: Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar on Friday said that the government was considering to establish a Pak-China business council to promote private sector role in China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Addressing the CPEC Forum, organised by Zalmi Foundation in collaboration with Embassy of China, the minister said relations between the two countries span over more than seven decades and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor was an important outcome of the bilateral relations. He said under CPEC a huge investment was made in energy sector during the last six years which helped Pakistan coming out of energy crisis. The minister said now the country was undertaking structural reforms and the government was committed to strengthening public sector institutions. He said in order to boost country’s gross domestic product growth rate, the tax circle would have to be expanded. Keeping in view the lower volume of exports, the minister said, the government was now focusing on promoting industrial and agricultural cooperation with China. He said the agriculture sector possessed a huge potential which would be fully utilised with cooperation of China. He pointed out that for socio-economic development, China would extend a grant of $1 billion to Pakistan. The socio economic development includes various sectors such as education, health, water, poverty alleviation, and others, he added. Published in Dawn, June 22nd, 2019


--- [Govt to set up Pak-China business council - ARY News] ---
Govt to set up Pak-China business council - By Web Desk - - Jul 13, 2019 ISLAMABAD: Khusro Bakhtiar, Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reforms, announced on Saturday that the government has decided to form Pak-China business council, and it has forwarded the names of leading businessmen to the Chinese embassy in this regard. In a press conference in Islamabad, the minister said the second phase of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is being initiated and the government will constitute a CPEC authority of highly skilled and modernized human resources to upgrade the existing structure for speedy and focused execution of the projects. He said a bill to this effect will soon be introduced in the parliament. The two countries have also decided to establish a Pakistan-China Business Council with a view to include people from the private sector to implement industrial and agricultural development projects under the second phase of CPEC, the minister said. “We are trying to take the focus of the CPEC to the business community level besides the governmental level.” He informed media that Chinese officials are expected to visit Pakistan in the last week of October. Talking about the Gwadar Master Plan, Bakhtiar said that it is in the last phase and will be presented soon. “According to the master plan, Gwadar will become a smart port city in the world.” The project of MLA-1 worth 8.5 billion dollars and it will be completed in three phases, the minister continued. The foreign minister of Afghanistan proposed a railway track from Mazar Sharif to Peshawar, Bakhtiar mentioned adding that CPEC has projects related to railways among many others. Four thousand solar systems have arrived in Pakistan from China, he said.


--- [Govt decides to form Pak-China Business Forum - Daily ...] ---
Planning Minister Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar revealed on Saturday that the government has decided to form a ‘Pak-China Business Council’, adding that names of leading businessmen have been forwarded to the Chinese embassy in this regard. Addressing a press conference in Islamabad, the minister said the second phase of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is being initiated and the government will constitute a CPEC authority of highly skilled and modernised human resources to upgrade the existing structure for speedy and focused execution of the projects. He said a bill to this effect will soon be introduced in the parliament. “The joint business council will include people from the private sector, as that will help in speedy implementation of industrial and agricultural projects under the second phase of CPEC,” the minister said. “We intend to make the business community an integral part of CPEC.” On a query, Bakhtiar said the Gwadar Master Plan is in the last phase and would be presented soon. “Implementing the master plan, Gwadar will become one of the best port cities in the world.” On another question, he said the project of ML-1 (Karachi-Peshawar) is worth $8.5 billion and will be completed in three phases. “The foreign minister of Afghanistan has proposed a railway track from Mazar Sharif to Peshawar,” Bakhtiar informed, adding that CPEC also has many projects related to the uplift of the railway network.


--- [Govt to form Pak-China Business Council, establish CPEC Authority: Bakhtiar] ---
Govt to form Pak-China Business Council, establish CPEC Authority: Bakhtiar Bakhtiar said Pakistan has great potential for development owing its geographical position. ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) – Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reforms Makhdoom Khusro Bakhtiar said on Saturday that the government was committed to implement much needed structural reforms for ensuring sustainable development in the country. Addressing Pakistan-US Alumni Conference in Islamabad, he said the previous governments had been shying away from structural reforms because it was a difficult task to do. The minister said the government was taking solid steps to stabilise economy of the country. He said human capital development was being given special emphasis. Bakhtiar said Pakistan has great potential for development owing its geographical position and the coastal belt. “Prime Minister Imran Khan is going to pay a visit to the United States this month…The visit will prove to be a new phase of rebuilding the bilateral ties on the horizon,” he expressed hope. Welcoming the alumni conference, the minister said such events prove quite helpful in understanding culture of each other country. CPEC “a manifestation of Pak-China relations” Later in the day, Bakhtiar held a press conference along with Advisor to the Prime Minister on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan. He stated that under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), industrial and agricultural agreements were reached between China and Pakistan, and the government has been committed to continue the project. He disclosed that the second phase of the CPEC was being initiated by the government, and termed it an “unfortunate” situation that from the last four years no progress could be achieved on the Gwadar Port. “The government has been acting accordingly with the agreements; however we will upgrade the current structure of the CPEC,” he said, while terming the economic corridor as ‘vital’ for the country to recover from the current [financial] crisis. He added that the government has decided to form Pakistan-China Business Council and establish CPEC Authority. “Gwadar Master Plan is in its last phase, and the government is determined to complete all projects under the CPEC,” he said. Bakhtiar also outlined the outdated structure and system of the Pakistan Railways, and maintained that the government’s focus was on ML-1. “The project [ML-1] will be completed in three phases…We will upgrade the system of railways,” he further said.


--- [Pak-China business council to be formed to promote private sector] ---
ISLAMABAD, Jun 21 (APP):Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Makhdum Khusro Bakhtyar Friday said the incumbent government wanted to increase business opportunities under China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) framework and in this connection constitution of Pak-China business council was under consideration to promote private sector in CPEC. The minister was addressing the CPEC Forum-2019 organized by Zalmi Foundation in collaboration with Embassy of China here. He said relations between Pakistan and China span over more than seven decades and the CPEC was an important outcome of the bilateral relations. Under the CPEC, he said a huge investment was made in energy sector of the country during last six years which helped Pakistan coming out of energy crisis.
