=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Iltija Mufti - Wikipedia]
Iltija Mehbooba Mufti is an Indian politician from Jammu and Kashmir [2] and the daughter of Mehbooba Mufti, the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir. She is the grand-daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the founder of the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who twice served as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. [3][4 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iltija_Mufti

[Iltija Mufti: Age, Biography, Education, Family, Caste, Net Worth & More - Oneindia]
Iltija Mufti, the daughter of People's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, has become a notable figure in Jammu and Kashmir's politics. Born into a distinguished political family, Iltija’s grandfather, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, was ...
URL: https://www.oneindia.com/politicians/iltija-mufti-76908.html

[J&K elections | Mehbooba's daughter Iltija Mufti all set to make poll debut]
Aug 19, 2024 · The long-awaited assembly polls are scheduled to be held on September 18. The younger daughter of Mehbooba Mufti, Iltija (37), often described as the ‘new face' of Kashmir, started actively participating in her mother’s political activities just five years ago.
URL: https://thefederal.com/category/states/north/jammu-and-kashmir/mummys-girl-iltija-mufti-to-make-poll-debut-in-jk-polls-who-is-she-139870

[Mehbooba’s daughter gets normal passport after months of legal battle - The Hindu]
PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti. File | Photo Credit: NISSAR AHMAD · Iltija Mufti, 35, daughter of former Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, was granted a regular passport on Friday by the Regional Passport ...
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/mehbooba-muftis-daughter-iltija-granted-regular-passport-with-10-year-validity/article67234770.ece

[Mehbooba Mufti - Wikipedia]
She contested 2019 Lok Sabha elections ... lakh votes. On 5 August 2019, she was detained by the Central government. Her daughter Iltija Mufti took over her mother's Twitter account on the 46th day of detention....
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mehbooba_Mufti


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Iltija Mufti - Wikipedia] ---
Iltija Mehbooba Mufti is an Indian politician from Jammu and Kashmir and the daughter of Mehbooba Mufti, the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir. She is the grand-daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the founder of the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who twice served as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir.


--- [Iltija Mufti: Age, Biography, Education, Family, Caste, Net Worth & More - Oneindia] ---
Iltija Mufti, the daughter of People's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, has become a notable figure in Jammu and Kashmir's politics. Born into a distinguished political family, Iltija’s grandfather, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, was a key player in the region's political history. He served as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir twice and held significant roles in the Indian government, including Union Minister for Tourism and Home Minister. Her father, Javed Iqbal Shah, is a Kashmiri columnist, political analyst, businessman, and animal rights activist. He was a cousin of Mehbooba Mufti, and Iltija's parents were married from 1984 to 1987. Iltija's mother, Mehbooba Mufti, has been a prominent political leader, serving as Member of Parliament from Anantnag and as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. In 2019, Iltija emerged as a key figure when her mother was detained after the abrogation of Article 370. She actively campaigned for her mother's release and became her media adviser. This year, Iltija continued her political efforts by supporting her mother's campaign in the Anantnag-Rajouri constituency during the Lok Sabha elections. Iltija began her schooling in Kashmir but moved to Delhi for the rest of her education. Although she once dreamed of becoming an astronaut, she pursued a degree in Political Science at a college in Delhi. She later went to the UK for a Master’s in International Relations and worked as a Senior Administrative Officer at the Indian High Commission in London and at the Australia India Institute. Apart from this, her net worth is Rs 28,00,000 and there is no criminal case against her. | Full Name | Iltija Mufti | | Place of Birth | Srinagar, Kashmir | | Party Name | Peoples Democratic Party | | Education | Masters | | Profession | Author, Writter, Consultant | | Father's Name | Javed Iqbal Shah | | Mother's Name | Mehbooba Mufti | | Spouse's Name | Unmarried | | Religion | Islam | | Caste | Mufti | Disclaimer:The information provided on this page is sourced from various publicly available platforms including https://en.wikipedia.org/, https://sansad.in/ls, https://sansad.in/rs, https://pib.gov.in/, https://affidavit.eci.gov.in/ and the official websites of state assemblies respectively. While we make every effort to maintain the accuracy, comprehensiveness and timeliness of the information provided, we cannot guarantee the absolute accuracy or reliability of the content. The data presented here has been compiled without consideration of the objectives or opinions of individuals who may access it. PDP Politicians


--- [J&K elections | Mehbooba's daughter Iltija Mufti all set to make poll debut] ---
J&K elections | Mehbooba's daughter Iltija Mufti all set to make poll debut Iltija first became famous when Parliament voted to abolish Article 370, which granted J&K special status and ‘autonomy’. Not quite unexpectedly, ‘Mummy’s girl’ Iltija Mufti is poised to take her big leap in her fledgling political career in the fraught political landscape of Jammu and Kashmir. For Iltija, the daughter of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, is all set to contest from the Bijbehara constituency in Anantnag in the upcoming J&K Assembly polls. The long-awaited assembly polls are scheduled to be held on September 18. The younger daughter of Mehbooba Mufti, Iltija (37), often described as the ‘new face' of Kashmir, started actively participating in her mother’s political activities just five years ago. According to political observers, in the past few years there have been enough indications that this political science graduate will step into the shoes of her mother and grandfather, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the former J&K CM who founded the PDP. Foray into politics Iltija first shot into the limelight when Parliament voted to abrogate Article 370, which granted special status and ‘autonomy’ to J&K. In August 2019, J&K’s statehood was revoked and it became a Union territory under the rule of the BJP central government. Her mother Mehbooba Mufti and other Kashmir leaders were quickly placed under detention and cut off from public life. And, this was the time Iltija emerged holding a press meet unapologetically donning the mantle of “Mummy’s Girl”. She criticised her mother’s detention and took over her mother’s Twitter account, as well as that of the PDP and managed to “fool” the system in the Internet-blocked Valley and kept her broadband working to keep the conversations going. She wanted to give Kashmiris hope and embolden their voice. And spoke out fearlessly against the "increased paramilitary presence", "more barricades" and how people’s voices were stifled. "People have been slapped with UAPA even if they crack a joke,” she mocked the BJP-led central government. In the words of PDP, “Iltija emerged as a leading voice and a vociferous critic of GoI’s decision to illegally abrogate Article 370 at a time when J&K’s mainstream leaders were out behind bars.” Concerned daughter Iltija’s concern for her mother’s health led her to write a letter to the J&K Police in November, urging the deputy commissioner to move Mehbooba to an accommodation with heating facilities. Equally fearlessly, she dashed off a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah in mid-August asking him why she was being punished for speaking on behalf of Kashmiris whose voices have been smothered and not allowed to leave her Srinagar home. “Is it a crime to articulate the pain, torment and indignity we’ve been subjected to? Does it warrant a detention to describe our plight?” she wrote. Iltija also asked the minister why the “world’s largest democracy” won’t allow a citizen to “speak up in the face of unimaginable repression?" Days after the letter reached its destination, Iltija was allowed to fly out of Srinagar. She complained on a CNN show with Christiane Amanpour and on BBC Hard Talk that her access to her mother is restricted. After Mehbooba’s release, Iltija then stuck by her mother’s side during her media interactions and meetings. And, finally, she got her reward for last year in August, she was christened as Mufti’s media advisor marking her formal entry into politics. Iltija is fiercely “protective” of her mother and claims to have differences in opinion with her. “I will always guard her, stand by her, but we also argue a lot,” she said in one interview. In a June post on Instagram, she wrote: "Elections will come & go. Some we will win some we will lose. But I pray to Allah that we share these moments together & never apart from each other in this journey we have embarked upon. Because a thousand victories will be meaningless without you around. Id much rather face a defeat knowing you are with me." Conversations with Iltija In June 2022 she started a fortnightly video conversation series on X called “Aapki baat Iltija ke saath (Conversations with Iltija)” to “talk about the issues and decisions” affecting the people of J&K. In it she discusses wide ranging issues dealing with Kashmir and gets to connect with Kashmiris. Outspoken Acutely aware of the fact that some Kashmiris “blame” PDP for collaborating with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to form a government in J&K in March 2016, she openly admits that her grandfather made a mistake by allying with the BJP. Mehbooba became chief minister of the erstwhile state in April 2016, following the death of her father. The coalition between PDP and BJP ended in June 2018, after which the state was placed under governor’s rule. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the “political fiefdom” of the Abdullah and Mufti dynasties, which has “brought only misery to the people of J&K” in the past, she said that she was not ashamed of being her mother's daughter. "I am proud of being her daughter. BJP cannot or will not decide if I should receive love and respect from the people of Kashmir or not. It isn’t my lineage but my aptitude which will decide my fate in politics," she said in another interview. She credits her articulate nature to Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, her maternal grandfather and founder of PDP. According to her, he encouraged her to read, write, and travel. She also revealed that her interest in politics was ignited when, as a child, she used to eavesdrop on conversations between her mother and her grandfather, former CM Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. Education qualifications Iltija graduated from Delhi University in political science and completed her master’s degree in international relations from Warwick University in the United Kingdom. She was mostly raised by her mother after the latter’s estrangement from her husband, Javed Iqbal Shah, a businessman and former National Conference leader. In between campaigning for her mother and PDP's Waheed Ur Rehman in the recently concluded Lok Sabha elections, Iltija Mufti is also penning her mother's biography. An avid reader, her favourite books are Rohinting Mistry's A Fine Balance and Amitav Ghosh’s Glass Palace.


--- [Mehbooba’s daughter gets normal passport after months of legal battle - The Hindu] ---
Iltija Mufti, 35, daughter of former Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, was granted a regular passport on Friday by the Regional Passport Office in Srinagar, months after she was issued a country-specific two-year passport. “I finally got a 10-year passport after a long-drawn battle that lasted 18 months. It’s a huge relief but sad to see that an intelligence agency here has been given carte blanche by GOI (Government of India) to harass and punish Kashmiris by depriving them of something as basic yet a fundamental right like a passport,” Ms. Mufti told The Hindu. She said a fresh copy of a regular passport was handed over to her on Friday in Srinagar. Ms. Mufti had applied for a passport in June 2022. Later, she pleaded before the high court following her decision to “go for an educational course to the United Arab Emirates (UAE)“. The Regional Passport Office, after the court intervention, only issued a country-specific passport valid for two years in April this year. The point-to-point passport was granted after the Jammu and Kashmir Criminal Investigation Department (CID), in a rare move, submitted an adverse report against her and classified the report as “Top Secret” under the Official Secret Act (OSA). The police verification report received from the Special Director General of Police (CID) Jammu and Kashmir on February 17, 2023, was duly classified as “Top Secret” under the provision of OSA. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Ms. Mehbooba and her mother’s passport were also withheld after adverse police verification. In February this year, former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti wrote a letter to Union Ministry of External Affairs S. Jaishankar and raised the issue of delay in issuing passports to the Muftis. Published - August 25, 2023 05:12 pm IST


--- [Mehbooba Mufti - Wikipedia] ---
Mehbooba Bur Mufti Sayed (born 22 May 1959) is an Indian politician and leader of the  Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party (PDP), who served as the 9th  chief minister of the erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir from 4 April 2016 to 19 June 2018. She is the first female chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir. After the revocation of Article 370 of the constitution in August 2019, Mufti was detained without any charges at first and later under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act.
Mufti was the first woman to hold the office of chief minister in the Jammu and Kashmir. She formed a coalition government in Jammu and Kashmir jointly with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). She resigned in June 2018 after the BJP withdrew from the coalition.
Mufti was the president of the PDP and was a member of the Indian parliament, representing Anantnag in the 16th Lok Sabha before she was sworn in as the chief minister of the Jammu and Kashmir. She also represented Anantnag in the 14th Lok Sabha (2004–09) and has also been a Leader of Opposition in Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly.
