=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dale Moss - Wikipedia]
Dale Moss (born September 24, 1988) [1] is an American former football wide receiver and reality television personality. He played college football for the South Dakota State Jackrabbits. While not an NFL star, Moss was a member of the offseason and practice squad rosters for the National Football League (NFL)'s Green Bay Packers, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Chicago Bears, and Carolina Panthers, he ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dale_Moss

[Dale Moss | The Bachelorette | Contestant Bio]
Dale Moss, a 36-year-old former professional football wide receiver from Brandon, South Dakota, is trading the field for the beach on Bachelor in Paradise Season 10. Known for his whirlwind romance on The Bachelorette, Dale is back in the spotlight and ready to take another shot at love, this time, paradise-style. Will the beach bring him the lasting connection he's been searching for?
URL: https://bracketology.tv/the-bachelorette/contestants/dale-moss

[Dale Moss | Bachelor Nation Wiki | Fandom]
He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. He is in a relationship with Galey Alix.
URL: https://bachelor-nation.fandom.com/wiki/Dale_Moss

[Dale Moss - Personality, Football Player, Actor - TV Insider]
Sep 24, 1988 · He gained widespread fame in 2020 as a contestant on Season 16 of ABC's 'The Bachelorette,' where he became engaged to Clare Crawley. However, their relationship ended in 2021.
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/people/dale-moss/

[Dale Moss Biography: Age, Net Worth, Relationships, Career]
Jul 8, 2025 · Dale Moss is a multifaceted American personality, celebrated for his transition from a professional football player to a reality TV star, model, actor, and philanthropist. Best known for his whirlwind engagement to Clare Crawley on The Bachelorette Season 16, Moss captured national attention with his charm and emotional depth. Born in Brandon, South Dakota, he carved a unique path from the NFL ...
URL: https://mabumbe.com/people/dale-moss-biography-age-net-worth-relationships-career/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dale Moss - Wikipedia] ---
Dale Moss (born September 24, 1988) is an American former football wide receiver and reality television personality. He played college football for the South Dakota State Jackrabbits. While not an NFL star, Moss was a member of the offseason and practice squad rosters for the National Football League (NFL)'s Green Bay Packers, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Chicago Bears, and Carolina Panthers, he played professionally for the Los Angeles Kiss of the Arena Football League (AFL) in 2014. Moss is better known for seeking stardom through appearances on reality television.  He became engaged to Clare Crawley during the 16th season of ABC's The Bachelorette where they left the show early as a couple and ultimately broke up shortly thereafter.


--- [Dale Moss | The Bachelorette | Contestant Bio] ---
Dale Moss, a 36-year-old former professional football wide receiver from Brandon, South Dakota, is trading the field for the beach on Bachelor in Paradise Season 10. Known for his whirlwind romance on The Bachelorette, Dale is back in the spotlight and ready to take another shot at love,this time, paradise-style. Will the beach bring him the lasting connection he's been searching for?


--- [Dale Moss | Bachelor Nation Wiki | Fandom] ---
Dale Moss was a contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette, where he got engaged to Clare Crawley. He returned for the 10th season of Bachelor in Paradise. Personal life[] He met Clare Crawley on the 16th season of The Bachelorette. After meeting during the limo entrances, Clare stated that she "thought she had just met her husband". They got engaged in week 3. "Yeah, it's wild right? That we're here right now, but I've said this before, from the moment I stepped out of the limo, this was special. And I know you and I, we both felt it immediately and there was absolutely no denying it. You made it so clear and apparent that every at phase of this that you believed in us, you believed in you and I, and I know without a shadow of a doubt that you would go to the end of the world for me and I've never had that and I'm so grateful for that. And you talked about strength and compassion and how you saw that in me, similar to your father and that meant everything. You know I wanna be here for you, I wanna be strong, I want you to feel protected and I want nothing more than to keep moving forward, to be there for you each and every day. And you know, I thought a lot about, you know, my mother and what she would think of you and she would absolutely love you and all she's ever wanted for me is someone who just loves me unconditionally and who would be there for me, no matter what. I mean, I know that I have that and I love you and I'm so appreciative for you and the best is yet to come - I'm not going anywhere and I want to make you happy each and every day, so with that being said, I'm gonna do it... I'm doing it... Clare, will you marry me?" - Dale proposing to Clare He announced their split on January 19, 2021. They reconciled shortly after, but broke up for good in September 2021. Biography[] Retrieved from abc.com Dale is a small town boy with big dreams of making an impact on the world. His mother passed away at a young age; but before her death, Dale says she taught him to always follow his passions and that nothing is impossible if you work hard. After playing D1 football and basketball at South Dakota State, Dale spent four years playing in the NFL before stepping away to move to New York and pursue a career in consulting for sports wellness and lifestyle brands. When asked what his greatest achievement is to date, Dale says, “I’m living it!” Now, all he’s just missing is a woman to share his success with. Dale is looking for a woman who wants him but doesn’t need him and says that nothing turns him on more than an independent woman with strong convictions. When Dale is feeling passionate, he doesn’t like to hold back and is looking for a woman who won’t be turned off by his intensity. Dale says one thing he has not mastered yet is patience. Will he be able to wait his turn to make a move on Clare or will he come in hot for all the right reasons?


--- [Dale Moss - Personality, Football Player, Actor - TV Insider] ---
Dale Moss is an American television personality, former professional football player, model, and actor. Born on September 24, 1988, in Brandon, South Dakota, he initially gained attention as a wide receiver in football. Moss played college basketball for four years at South Dakota State University before transitioning to football in his senior year. Despite going undrafted in the 2012 NFL Draft, he had brief stints with teams like the Green Bay Packers, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Chicago Bears, and Carolina Panthers. He gained widespread fame in 2020 as a contestant on Season 16 of ABC's "The Bachelorette," where he became engaged to Clare Crawley. However, their relationship ended in 2021. In his acting career, Moss starred in the 2022 romantic comedy "Putting Love to the Test" and has been involved in developing sports documentaries. He has also been linked to HGTV star Galey Alix, with reports indicating they dated for about two years before separating in late 2024.


--- [Dale Moss Biography: Age, Net Worth, Relationships, Career] ---
No content
