=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The English (TV series) - Wikipedia]
The English is a revisionist Western television miniseries written and directed by Hugo Blick, and produced by Drama Republic and Eight Rooks for the BBC and Amazon Prime.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_English_(TV_series)

[BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast list, start date and ...]
Nov 9, 2022 · News TV BBC BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast list, start date and time The English stars Emily Blunt, Chaske Spencer and Toby Jones Comments 0 News
URL: https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/tv/bbc-english-plot-how-many-25473543

[Toby Jones | Western Series Wiki | Fandom]
Tobias Edward Heslewood Jones is an actor, when it comes to western series probably known for his role in The English. What You Want & What You Need (episode 1) Toby Jones on IMDb Toby Jones on Wikipedia
URL: https://western-series.fandom.com/wiki/Toby_Jones

[BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast… - inkl]
How many episodes of The English are there? There are six episodes of The English, each lasting 50 minutes. The English will launch on BBC Two, with all episodes available on BBC iPlayer, on Thursday, November 10 at 9pm.
URL: https://www.inkl.com/news/bbc-the-english-plot-how-many-episodes-full-cast-list-start-date-and-time

[The English (TV Mini Series 2022) - Episode list - IMDb]
Cornelia finally confronts the man who killed her son and new revelations come to light. Love both lost and found determines a final showdown with irreversible consequences.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt11771270/episodes/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The English (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
The English is a revisionist Western television miniseries written and directed by Hugo Blick, and produced by Drama Republic and Eight Rooks for the BBC and Amazon Prime. Starring Emily Blunt and Chaske Spencer, it follows an Englishwoman who travels to the American West in 1890 to seek revenge on the man she blames for the death of her son. It premiered in the United Kingdom on BBC Two and BBC iPlayer on 10 November 2022, and in the United States on Amazon Prime Video on 11 November 2022. The series received positive reviews from critics, particularly for Blunt's and Spencer's performances.


--- [BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast list, start date and ...] ---
BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast list, start date and time The English stars Emily Blunt, Chaske Spencer and Toby Jones BBC's new Western drama The English starring award-winning actress Emily Blunt starts this week. The show follows an aristocratic Englishwoman, Lady Cornelia Locke and a Pawnee ex-cavalry scout, Eli Whipp, who come together in 1890 mid-America to cross a violent landscape built on dreams and blood. Both of them have a clear sense of their destiny but neither is aware that it is rooted in a shared past. They must face increasingly terrifying obstacles that will test them to their cores, physically and psychologically. READ MORE: Strictly Comes Dancing's Tony Adams makes Katya 'row' admission on Good Morning Britain But as each obstacle is overcome it draws them closer to their ultimate destination, the new town of Hoxem, Wyoming. It is here, after an investigation by the local sheriff Robert Marshall and young widow Martha Myers into a series of bizarre and macabre unsolved murders, that the full extent of their intertwined history will be truly understood, and they will come face to face with the future they must live. How many episodes of The English are there? There are six episodes of The English, each lasting 50 minutes. The English will launch on BBC Two, with all episodes available on BBC iPlayer, on Thursday, November 10 at 9pm. Full cast list of The English - Cornelia Locke - Emily Blunt - Eli Whipp - Chaske Spencer - Sheriff Robert Marshall - Stephen Rea - Martha Myers - Valerie Pachner - David Melmont - Rafe Spall - Thomas Trafford - Tom Hughes - Richard M Watts - Ciarán Hinds - Sebold Cusk - Toby Jones Receive newsletters with the biggest and breaking TV and showbiz news by signing up here For more celeb news, videos and pictures follow our designated Facebook page HERE READ NEXT: Aldi shopper 'got a fright' as she spotted 'rude' dog toy People are only just realising what fourth side of a cheese grater is for ITV The Chase bosses step in to correct Bradley Walsh after round ends Aldi and Argos shoppers ditching air fryers after becoming 'addicted' to cheaper alternative Aldi shopper refused alcohol as worker thought 'her kids were her mates'


--- [Toby Jones | Western Series Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [BBC The English plot, how many episodes, full cast… - inkl] ---
BBC's new Western drama The English starring award-winning actress Emily Blunt starts this week. The show follows an aristocratic Englishwoman, Lady Cornelia Locke and a Pawnee ex-cavalry scout, Eli Whipp, who come together in 1890 mid-America to cross a violent landscape built on dreams and blood. Both of them have a clear sense of their destiny but neither is aware that it is rooted in a shared past. They must face increasingly terrifying obstacles that will test them to their cores, physically and psychologically. READ MORE: Strictly Comes Dancing's Tony Adams makes Katya 'row' admission on Good Morning Britain But as each obstacle is overcome it draws them closer to their ultimate destination, the new town of Hoxem, Wyoming. It is here, after an investigation by the local sheriff Robert Marshall and young widow Martha Myers into a series of bizarre and macabre unsolved murders, that the full extent of their intertwined history will be truly understood, and they will come face to face with the future they must live. How many episodes of The English are there? There are six episodes of The English, each lasting 50 minutes. The English will launch on BBC Two, with all episodes available on BBC iPlayer, on Thursday, November 10 at 9pm. Full cast list of The English - Cornelia Locke - Emily Blunt - Eli Whipp - Chaske Spencer - Sheriff Robert Marshall - Stephen Rea - Martha Myers - Valerie Pachner - David Melmont - Rafe Spall - Thomas Trafford - Tom Hughes - Richard M Watts - Ciarán Hinds - Sebold Cusk - Toby Jones Receive newsletters with the biggest and breaking TV and showbiz news by signing up here For more celeb news, videos and pictures follow our designated Facebook page HERE READ NEXT: Aldi shopper 'got a fright' as she spotted 'rude' dog toy People are only just realising what fourth side of a cheese grater is for ITV The Chase bosses step in to correct Bradley Walsh after round ends Aldi and Argos shoppers ditching air fryers after becoming 'addicted' to cheaper alternative Aldi shopper refused alcohol as worker thought 'her kids were her mates'


--- [The English (TV Mini Series 2022) - Episode list - IMDb] ---
Eli Whipp, a retired Pawnee scout out to claim his birthright, meets Cornelia Locke, an Englishwoman hell-bent on revenge. Their paths fated to cross, they travel north together. Eli and Cornelia are forced to make a choice when they find an orphaned baby and child. Meanwhile in Powder River, an English farmer discovers the slaughter of his pregnant cattle. With Eli in grave danger, Cornelia must find him before it is too late. In Powder River, Sheriff Marshall is investigating a suspicious suicide and murder. Fifteen years earlier, Trafford witnesses a violent massacre in America which triggers another tragedy across the ocean in England setting the course of Eli and Cornelia's destiny. Eli sets his compass for a new direction to atone for a past wrong and, now united in their hunt for revenge, grows closer to Cornelia. Trafford makes desperate preparations. Cornelia finally confronts the man who killed her son and new revelations come to light. Love both lost and found determines a final showdown with irreversible consequences.
