=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[María Elena Walsh - Wikipedia]
In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well. [1][8]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mar%C3%ADa_Elena_Walsh

[María Elena Walsh - Wikiwand]
Jan 10, 2011 · In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well. [1][8]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Mar%C3%ADa_Elena_Walsh

[María Elena Walsh - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/1793015

[queerplaces - María Elena Walsh - Elisa Rolle]
In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires , and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well.
URL: http://www.elisarolle.com/queerplaces/klmno/Mar%C3%ADa%20Elena%20Walsh.html

[Maria Elena Walsh - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 8, 2024 · In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Maria-Elena-Walsh


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [María Elena Walsh - Wikipedia] ---
María Elena Walsh (1 February 1930 – 10 January 2011) was an Argentine poet, novelist, musician, playwright, writer and composer, mainly known for her songs and books for children. Her work includes many of the most popular children's books and songs of all time in her home country.




--- [María Elena Walsh - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [María Elena Walsh - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- María Elena Walsh - María Elena Walsh Famous portrait of Maria Elena Walsh by her partner and photographer Sara Facio, which she later intervened with paint.Born 1 February 1930 Ramos Mejía, Buenos Aires, ArgentinaDied 10 January 2011 Buenos Aires, ArgentinaOccupation Novelist Author, Singer-songwriter, Poet Nationality Argentine Genres Children's literature, Autobiographical novel, poetry Partner(s) Sara Facio me.gov.arMaría Elena Walsh (1 February 1930 – 10 January 2011) was an Argentine poet, novelist, musician, dramaturge, writer and composer, mainly known for her songs and books for children. Contents Biography María Elena Walsh was born in Villa Sarmiento, Ramos Mejía, Buenos Aires, to an English railway worker, of Irish descent, who played the piano and an Argentine woman of Andalusian descent. As a child, she lived in a big house, where she greatly enjoyed reading and listening to music in a cultural environment. When she was 15, Walsh had some of her poems published in El Hogar magazine and La Nación newspaper. In 1947, before graduating from art school, she published her first book, Otoño Imperdonable, a collection of poems which was critically acclaimed and received recognition from important Latin American writers. After graduation in 1948, she traveled to North America invited for poet Juan Ramon Jiménez and Europe during the Peronism and then moved to Paris where she spent four years in the early 1950s. While there, Walsh performed in concerts featuring Argentine folklore with fellow Argentinean singer Leda Valladares (born 1919), forming the duo Leda & Maria and recording for Le chant du monde.[1] She returned to Argentina in 1956 after the Revolución Libertadora. In 1958, Walsh wrote numerous TV scripts, plays, poems, books and songs, specially for kids, her stories and songs are highly poetic and entertaining. Her most famous song was “Manuelita la Tortuga” (Manuelita the Turtle) and the Twist of the Monkey Mono Liso. She triumph as a performer too, singing her songs onstage in 1962 (Canciones para mirar) and 1968, Juguemos en el mundo, a show dedicated to grown-ups very critical of the government censorship,[2] recordings and made a film Let's play in the world [3] based on her characters Doña Disparate y Bambuco directed by her partner at that time, Maria Herminia Avellaneda (1933–1997). Her work has often contained an underlying political message, as in the song El País del Nomeacuerdo ("The Country of IDontRemember"), which was later used as the theme song for The Official Story, winner of the 1985 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. During the military dictatorship (1976–83) she was a fierce opponent, her song "Oración a la justicia" (Prayer for Justice) became a civil right anthem. In an open letter she criticized the regime censorship comparing the country with a preschool country calling it "Desventuras en el Pais-Jardin-de-Infantes" (Misadventures in the Preschool Country). In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well. In 1991 she was given the Highly Commended ranking in winning the Hans Christian Andersen Award, a prize awarded by the International Board on Books for Young People. She was 80 when she died in Buenos Aires on 10 January 2011, after suffering from bone cancer. She lived with her partner, the photographer Sara Facio (born 1932) from 1980 until her death.[4][5] Work Books - Otoño imperdonable - 1947 ("Unforgivable Autumn") - Apenas viaje - 1948 ("As Soon as I Travel") - Baladas con Ángel - 1951 ("Ballads with Angel") - Casi milagro - 1958 ("Almost a Miracle") - Tutú Marambá - 1960 - El reino del Revés - 1964 ("The Upside-Down Kingdom") - Zoo loco - 1964 ("Crazy Zoo") - Hecho a mano - 1965 ("Hand Made") - Dailan Kifki - 1966 - Cuentopos de Gulubú - 1966 ("Tales of Gulubú") - Aire libre - 1967 ("Open Air") - Juguemos en el mundo - 1970 ("Let's Play in the World") - El diablo inglés - 1974 ("English Devil") - Angelito - 1974 ("Little Angel") - El país de la Geometría - 1974 ("The Country of Geometry") - La Sirena y el Capitán - 1974 ("The Mermaid and the Captain") - Cancionero contra el mal de ojo - 1976 ("Songbook Against the Evil Eye") - Chaucha y palito - 1977 ("Little to Nothing") - Desventuras en el País-Jardín-de-Infantes - 1979 ("Misfortunes in Kindergarten-Country") - Novios de antaño - 1990 ("Lovers of Yore") - Hotel Pioho's Palace - 2002 ("Louse's Palace Hotel") Albums - Canciones para mirar ("Songs to Look At") - Canciones para mí ("Songs for Me") - El País del Nomeacuerdo ("The Country of IDontRemember") - El País de la Navidad ("The Country of Christmas") - Cuentopos ("Storiettes") - Cuentopos para el recreo ("Storiettes for Recess") - Juguemos en el mundo ("Let's Play in the World") - Juguemos en el mundo II ("Let's Play in the World II") - El sol no tiene bolsillos ("The Sun Has No Pockets") - Como la cigarra ("Like the Cicada") - El buen modo ("The Good Way") - De puño y letra ("Handwritten") References External links Categories:- 1930 births - 2011 deaths - 20th-century novelists - 20th-century women writers - 21st-century novelists - 21st-century women writers - Argentine composers - Argentine female singers - Argentine people of English descent - Argentine people of Irish descent - Argentine singers - Argentine writers - Cancer deaths in Argentina - Children's writers - Deaths from bone cancer - Diarists - Illustrious Citizen of Buenos Aires - Lesbian musicians - Lesbian writers - LGBT composers - LGBT people from Argentina - People from La Matanza Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [queerplaces - María Elena Walsh - Elisa Rolle] ---
Partner Maria Herminia Avellaneda, Sara Facio María Elena Walsh (1 February 1930 – 10 January 2011) was an Argentine poet, novelist, musician, playwright, writer and composer, mainly known for her songs and books for children, who has been considered a "living legend, cultural hero (and) crest of nearly every childhood". Walsh's partner from 1978 until her death in 2011 was Sara Facio, an Argentine photographer, best-known herself for having photographed, along with Alicia D'amico, various cultural personalities, including Argentine writers Julio Cortázar and Alejandra Pizarnik.[8][7] María Elena Walsh was born in Villa Sarmiento, Ramos Mejía, Greater Buenos Aires, to an English railway worker of Irish descent, who played the piano and an Argentine woman of Andalusian descent. As a child, she lived in a big house, where she greatly enjoyed reading and listening to music in a cultural environment. When she was 15, Walsh had some of her poems published in El Hogar ( (magazine) and La Nación (newspaper). In 1947, before graduating from art school, she published her first book, Otoño Imperdonable, , a collection of poems which was critically acclaimed and received recognition from important Latin American writers. After graduation in 1948, she traveled to North America invited by poet Juan Ramon Jiménez and Europe during the era of Peronism and then moved to Paris where she spent four years in the early 1950s. While there, Walsh performed in concerts featuring Argentine folklore with fellow Argentinean singer Leda Valladares (born 1919), forming the duo Leda & Maria and recording for Le chant du monde.[3] ShShe returned to Argentina in 1956 after the Revolución Libertadora. From 1958 onwards, Walsh wrote numerous TV scripts, plays, poems, books and songs, specially dedicated to young children. She was also a successful performer, singing her own songs onstage and recording them later in albums, like Canciones para mirar, Canciones para mí and El País de Nomeacuerdo. Juguemos en el mundo, also an album, was a satirical show for adults,[4] which was made into a film of the same title, albeit with a story unrelated to the original stage show and songs recording.[5] The film was based on her characters Doña Disparate y Bambuco a and was directed by her partner at that time, Maria Herminia Avellaneda. Her work has often contained an underlying political message, as in the song El País del Nomeacuerdo ("The Country of I-Don't-Remember"), which was later used as the theme song for the film The Official Story, winner of the 1985 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. During the military dictatorship (1976–83) she was a fierce opponent, her song "Oración a la justicia" (Prayer for Justice) became a civil right anthem. In an open letter she criticized the regime censorship comparing the country with a preschool country calling it "Desventuras en el Pais-Jardin-de-Infantes" (Misadventures in the Preschool Country). In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires , and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well. In 1994 she was Highly Commended for the Hans Christian Andersen Award, a prize awarded by the International Board on Books for Young People.[6] María Elena Walsh died of bone cancer in Buenos Aires, aged 80, on 10 January 2011.[7] My published books:


--- [Maria Elena Walsh - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Nationality Argentine Signature Role Poet | Partner Sara Facio (1978–2011) Name Maria Walsh | | Born 1 February 1930 Ramos Mejia, Buenos Aires, Argentina ( 1930-02-01 ) Occupation Poet, author, musician, writer Genre Children's literature, Autobiographical novel, poetry Died January 10, 2011, Buenos Aires, Argentina Movies Manuelita, Juguemos en el mundo, Necesito una madre, La Republica Perdida II Albums Canciones Para Chicos, Canciones para mi Parents Lucia Elena Monsalvo, Enrique Walsh Similar People Leda Valladares, Sara Facio, Pinon Fijo, Lito Vitale, Alejandro Lerner | 83° Aniversario del cumpleaños de María Elena Walsh Google Doodle [HQ] Maria Elena Walsh (1 February 1930 – 10 January 2011) was an Argentine poet, novelist, musician, playwright, writer and composer, mainly known for her songs and books for children, who has been considered a "living legend, cultural hero (and) crest of nearly every childhood". Contents What was written by Maria Elena configures the most important work of all time in its genre, comparable to Lewis Carroll's Alice or Pinocchio, a work that revolutionized the way to understand the relationship between poetry and childhood. Biography Maria Elena Walsh was born in Villa Sarmiento, Ramos Mejia, Buenos Aires, to an English railway worker, of Irish descent, who played the piano and an Argentine woman of Andalusian descent. As a child, she lived in a big house, where she greatly enjoyed reading and listening to music in a cultural environment. When she was 15, Walsh had some of her poems published in El Hogar magazine and La Nacion newspaper. In 1947, before graduating from art school, she published her first book, Otono Imperdonable, a collection of poems which was critically acclaimed and received recognition from important Latin American writers. After graduation in 1948, she traveled to North America invited by poet Juan Ramon Jimenez and Europe during the era of Peronism and then moved to Paris where she spent four years in the early 1950s. While there, Walsh performed in concerts featuring Argentine folklore with fellow Argentinean singer Leda Valladares (born 1919), forming the duo Leda & Maria and recording for Le chant du monde. She returned to Argentina in 1956 after the Revolucion Libertadora. From 1958 onwards, Walsh wrote numerous TV scripts, plays, poems, books and songs, specially dedicated to young children. She was also a successful performer, singing her own songs onstage and recording them later in albums, like Canciones para mirar, Canciones para mi and El Pais de Nomeacuerdo. Juguemos en el mundo, also an album, was a satirical show for adults, which also became a film of the same title with a story unrelated to the original stage show and songs recording. The film was based on her characters Dona Disparate y Bambuco and was directed by her partner at that time, Maria Herminia Avellaneda (1933–1997). Her work has often contained an underlying political message, as in the song El Pais del Nomeacuerdo ("The Country of I-Don't-Remember"), which was later used as the theme song for the film The Official Story, winner of the 1985 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. During the military dictatorship (1976–83) she was a fierce opponent, her song "Oracion a la justicia" (Prayer for Justice) became a civil right anthem. In an open letter she criticized the regime censorship comparing the country with a preschool country calling it "Desventuras en el Pais-Jardin-de-Infantes" (Misadventures in the Preschool Country). In 1985 she received the title of Illustrious Citizen of the City of Buenos Aires, and in 1990 was named Doctor honoris causa of the National University of Cordoba and Illustrious People of Buenos Aires Province as well. In 1994 she was Highly Commended for the Hans Christian Andersen Award, a prize awarded by the International Board on Books for Young People. She died of bone cancer in Buenos Aires at the age of 80 on 10 January 2011. She lived with her partner, the photographer Sara Facio (born 1932) from 1980 until her death. Misfortunes in Kindergarten-Country" Songs Manuelita la tortuga La Reina Batata El reino del reves Cancion del Jacaranda Chacarera de los gatos La mona Jacinta La vaca estudiosa La Familia Polillal Cancion del jardinero Cancion de banar la luna Serenata para la tierra de uno El Adivinador Como la cigarra Baguala de Juan Poquito La pajara pinta Marcha de Osias Cancion de la Vacuna Cancion de tomar el te Don Enrique del Menique Cancion del pescador Don Dolon Dolon Cancion de Titeres Eres alta y delgada Ya se van los pastores La Calle del Gato Que Pesca Cancion para Vestirse Marcha de San Lorenzo La tortuga Manuelita Romance del conde Olinos El Show de Perro Salchicha Cancion de caminantes Barco quieto
