=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sara Watkins - Wikipedia]
Sara Ullrika Watkins (born June 8, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter and fiddler. Watkins debuted in 1989 as the fiddler of Nickel Creek, the progressive bluegrass group she formed with her brother Sean and mandolinist Chris Thile.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Watkins

[Sara Watkins: The Nickel Creek singer/fiddle player goes solo]
In August 2008 Sara married Todd Cooper in her parents' back yard in Vista, California. Speaking about her husband, Sara told Christianity Today, "He's my biggest teammate on the solo thing.
URL: https://www.crossrhythms.co.uk/articles/music/Sara_Watkins_The_Nickel_Creek_singerfiddle_player_goes_solo/35892/p1/

[Sara Watkins - Wikiwand]
On August 16, 2008, Watkins married Todd Cooper in her parents' backyard in Vista, California. [7][20] On June 15, 2017, she announced via Twitter that she and her husband were expecting a child in September.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Sara_Watkins

[Sara Watkins - Celebrity biography, zodiac sign and famous quotes]
About Sara Watkins Sara Watkins is an American folk singer known for producing the singles "Call My Name", "Little Lies" and "Crossing Muddy Waters". Family The California-born musician exchanged her wedding vows with Todd Cooper on August 16, 2008. Nickel Creek band and Other Career Highlights She started her career in 1989 where she joined the Nickel Creek band. The band was made ...
URL: https://www.thefamousbirthdays.com/people/sara-watkins

[See Sara Watkins Sing Stunning, Personal 'Move Me']
Oct 11, 2016 — She lived in a home built by her father and grandpa Watkins. And in 2008, she married her husband, actor-director Todd Cooper, there in the ...
URL: https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-country/see-sara-watkins-sing-stunning-personal-move-me-107652/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sara Watkins - Wikipedia] ---
Sara Ullrika Watkins (born June 8, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter and fiddler. Watkins debuted in 1989 as the fiddler of Nickel Creek, the progressive bluegrass group  she formed with her brother Sean and mandolinist Chris Thile. In addition to singing and fiddling, Watkins also plays the ukulele and the guitar, and also played percussion while touring with the Decemberists.  In 2012, she and her brother played with Jackson Browne during his "I'll Do Anything" acoustic tour.
With Nickel Creek, Watkins released five studio albums, one compilation album, and seven singles. During the band's seven-year hiatus, she released three solo albums: Sara Watkins and Sun Midnight Sun on Nonesuch Records and Young in All the Wrong Ways on New West Records.


--- [Sara Watkins: The Nickel Creek singer/fiddle player goes solo] ---
Tony Cummings investigates the life and music of one of country music's brightest new voices, SARA WATKINS American music, or at least American music made by Christians, isn't renowned for its subtle understatement and deft application of the less-is-more principle. Yet the release of Sara Watkins' self-titled album has brought forth accolades from the reviewers, many of which comment on the album's subtle understatement. Mojo magazine commented, "Simplicity is the key resulting in such wispy wonders as 'Same Mistakes', the most fragile of waltzes or the most joyous chunk of 'Ye Olde Western Swing' that is Jimmie Rodgers' 'Any Old Time'," while the BBC praised "an understated approach with no hints of showy grandstanding or cheap shot appeal, Watkins' time in the spotlight is a triumph with her agile playing and the kind of voice that gives your goosebumps the shivers." Watkins is of course no newcomer. With her elder brother Sean she has been a member of the "progressive bluegrass" group Nickel Creek which seemed to come from nowhere and sell massive amounts of their five studio releases before going on an extended sabbatical. The 'Sara Watkins' solo debut was produced by Led Zeppelin survivor John Paul Jones, making more than one critic ponder whether there had been a conscious attempt to repeat the formula and therefore the huge sales success when Led Zeppelin's Robert Plant teamed up with another vastly talented country music singer and fiddle player, Alison Krauss. Sara explained to Christianity Today how the unlikely musical marriage of Watkins and Jones came together. "Sean [Watkins], Chris [Thiele] and I [the three members of Nickel Creek] had made a record with Glen Phillips [of Toad The Wet Sprocket] years before [called 'The Mutual Admiration Society']. We decided to tour it a couple weeks and John played bass, which was a huge surprise and a really good time. A few years later he saw Nickel Creek play and talked to me about producing my record. I was surprised and stoked - and a little doubtful it would actually happen. A few months down the line we were still talking about it and realised we were both really into the idea." Sara told LAist.com what it was like working with John Paul Jones. "He was unlike any producer I'd ever worked with and I enjoyed every second of the process! He wanted everything to revolve around the songs and my voice, and he helped me perform better. This was also a totally different process and production style for me, where you're bringing in all these musicians rather than the band being the musicians. I was actually surprised by how naturally everything went down. We just loaded in the first day - a friend brought a ton of instruments for us to play with, such as extra little keyboards and guitars and toys - and we were off and running. It just felt like we hit a rhythm really fast. "There were a couple things that happened that we didn't really plan for. For instance, there was a rhythm section that we had intended on using on the second track, 'Long Hot Summer Days', but at the last minute they couldn't make it. So we had to figure out who else could play drums, bass and electric guitar. We had Gillian Welch and Dave Rawlings playing on 'Lord Won't You Help Me' where she played drums and he played electric, and so we just thought, what if John played bass, and then we switched things around on this one so that Dave played drums and Gillian played electric guitar? It ended up being one of my favourite tracks on the record because it wasn't strategised that way from the beginning." The kickoff track, "All This Time", has an achingly tender lyric, sung in what one reviewer called "a sense of hopeful melancholy." She told LAist.com about her songwriting process: "When I first started writing, it was all very cryptic - analogy after analogy - and it didn't really convey anything specific. I'd run lyrics by a few friends and they'd tell me, "That's awesome, but I have no idea what you're talking about!" Over the years, I've been trying to be more specific and clear about what I'm saying - to a degree. I want to be able to extend an idea over several verses, but not be so clear that you get it all out in two verses and a chorus." Amazingly, Sara does much of her songwriting on a ukulele. "I wrote most of the original songs on the album on ukulele, though I did write 'All This Time' on fiddle as I was plucking out this descending chord pattern. And I did 'Bygones' on the fiddle as well. One thing that's nice about the ukulele is that it's less intimidating. It's kind of a fun little toy to just sit around in a corner and noodle with. I happen upon different little chord structures or groupings that I wouldn't necessarily come across on guitar, so it kind of puts me in a different space." Sara Ullrika Watkins was born on 8th June 1981. Sara grew up in a Christian home. She said, "At different stages I remember realising different levels of what [being a Christian] means. You ask God in your heart when you're four. Then you do it again when you're eight because somebody tells you, 'You better be sure or else you're going to Hell.' As you learn more about life, I think you learn more about your reliance on God. I feel like every four years or so I come to a place where it's so impressed on me, a bigger realisation kind of hits me." Nickel Creek was formed in 1989, consisting of Sara, then aged only eight, her elder brother, guitarist Sean, and singer/mandolin player Chris Thile. By the time she was 12 she was noticing that Nickel Creek's plaintive rural music was attracting big name admirers. She told journalist Courtney Devores, "We were playing the children's tent at the Telluride Festival. Somebody got us on the main stage to play for 20 minutes." It wasn't long before the band noticed familiar faces like Bela Fleck and Edgar Myer in the crowd. She continued, "It was the first time I remember looking down and thinking 'the famous people are here.' We played right before John Hartford, and I'm sure they were there to watch (him)." After the early releases 'Little Cow Poke' (1993) and 'Here To There' (1997) Nickel Creek were signed to major label Sugar Hill/Warners and with the US showing renewed interest in its folk, country and bluegrass heritage Nickel Creek enjoyed phenomenal success and the albums 'Nickel Creek' (2000), 'This Side' (2002) and 'Why Should The Fire Die?' (2005). After the release of the 2006 compilation 'Reasons Why: The Very Best Of Nickel Creek' the band decided to go on a lengthy sabbatical to pursue other projects. In 2007 Watkins and musician Grant-Lee Phillips wrote a song, "Song Of The North (Beneath The Sun)", for the documentary film Arctic Tale and also sang on the soundtrack alongside Aimee Mann and Brian Wilson. Her one-time Nickel Creek bandmates were developing new projects as well. Chris Thile collaborated with Edgar Myer and started progressive string band Punch Brothers while Sean Watkins formed Fiction Family with Switchfoot singer Jon Foreman. In August 2008 Sara married Todd Cooper in her parents' back yard in Vista, California. Speaking about her husband, Sara told Christianity Today, "He's my biggest teammate on the solo thing. I'm very grateful for that. Touring when you're in a relationship always sucks. Your personal life, your home life, is always suffering when you're not there. It's hard to live both at home and on the road over the phone. After a couple of weeks you start to detach a little bit mentally. So you just have to figure out how to do it. And we're still doing that." Also that year Sara performed short tours as an opening act for singer/songwriter Tift Merritt and, in October, Donavan Frankenreiter. Now she's out headlining Sara is finding the experience totally different from playing a Nickel Creek concert. She said, "I've only been doing the headlining tour for a few weeks now and it's totally different figuring out the set list and everything. Each crowd is totally different, so there's a whole lot of catering to each show. It's all very unique night to night. But by and large, the shows have been super-fun and by the end of the night it feels like we're all experiencing this thing together. It's been a really great learning experience." Not only is the 'Sara Watkins' album in all the big mainstream stores, it's also, to many people's surprise, been picked up for Christian retail distribution. Commented Sara, "It's funny to me that Christian bookstores would want it. I'm totally comfortable with it. I was just surprised. I never thought that was an option for me. I like it. I try to stay as aware of my faith when I'm touring as when I'm at home. At home it's more consistent and you can figure things out a bit easier. You try being aware of your faith at all times." The opinions expressed in this article are not necessarily those held by Cross Rhythms. Any expressed views were accurate at the time of publishing but may or may not reflect the views of the individuals concerned at a later date.


--- [Sara Watkins - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Sara Watkins - Celebrity biography, zodiac sign and famous quotes] ---
Sara Watkins Rank About Sara Watkins Sara Watkins is an American folk singer known for producing the singles “Call My Name”, “Little Lies” and “Crossing Muddy Waters”. Family The California-born musician exchanged her wedding vows with Todd Cooper on August 16, 2008. Nickel Creek band and Other Career Highlights She started her career in 1989 where she joined the Nickel Creek band. The band was made up of three members including the American Mandolinist, Chris Thile and Sean Watkins who is Sara’s brother. The band produced close to six albums, including “A Dotted Line”, “Here to There”, “Little Cowpoke” and “Nickel Creek”. The band also received awards and nominations, including a Grammy Award for “Best Contemporary Folk Album” in 2002. The band broke apart in 2007 but got reunited seven years later. She wrote her first solo song “Anthony” in 2005, although she was still with Nickel Creek but she never released it. In 2008, she started her solo career and signed a contract deal with Nonesuch Records. The following year, she released her first album “Sara Watkins”, which peaked at number 13 on the Heatseekers Album Charts. Other albums she owns include “Young in All the Wrong Ways”, “Sun Midnight Sun” and “Under the Pepper Tree”. The latter was released in 2021 under New West Records. She also produced music videos for the songs “You and Me”, “Move Me” and “When it pleases You”. Sara was included on short tours by artists like Tift Merritt and Robert Earl Keen of which she performed as an opening act during the tours. She also performed in significant events like the Alaska State Fair and Minnesota State Fair. She was a member of the super group named “The Scrolls”, which included other artists such as Glen Philips, Pete Thomas, Sean Watkins and Greg Leisz. The group produced their album “WPA” in 2009. She, together with her brother Sean Watkins, held performances at a nightclub called Largo. They produced the albums “Watkins Family Hour” and “Brother and Sister”. Awards She took home the Instrumentalist of the Year Award at the Americana Music Honors and Award in 2016. Trivia Aside from playing the violin, she also plays the fiddle and she performed with the fiddle on “Punisher”, which is a 2020 record by singer Phoebe Bridgers. Sara Watkins Rank F.A.Q. about Sara Watkins When is her birthday? Sara Watkins' birthday is on June 8, 1981. In how many days is her birthday? Sara's birthday is in 96 days How old is she? She is 44 years old. Where is Sara from? She was born in Vista, California, U.S..


--- [See Sara Watkins Sing Stunning, Personal 'Move Me'] ---
See Sara Watkins Sing Stunning, Personal ‘Move Me’ “I would hang out with the teachers at recess,” Sara Watkins says on a plush red couch in Manhattan, searching for the most salient way to sum herself up. For someone who experienced fame early in life (she was eight years old when her former band Nickel Creek played its first gig), Watkins is a realist. She’s also a box-checker (though she denies ever keeping a five-year plan). With a firm gaze and pin-straight bangs parted over the rims of her glasses, the 35-year-old singer-guitarist comes off like a bluegrass-loving Hermione Granger. Watkins emerged as a solo artist following Nickel Creek’s hiatus in 2007. In 2016, she released her third and finest solo record Young in All the Wrong Ways, which – in part – examines dislodged domesticity. The video for the title track for instance depicts a Norman Rockwell-type dinner setting gone awry as Watkins rejects a future she never wanted. “So I’m gonna leave you here / I’m going out to see about my own frontier,” she sings on the buoyant, folk-pop single. This year, Watkins also toured with two personal idols, Patti Griffin and Rodney Crowell (“I left that tour craving to do a two-step”). And last month she became the first female artist named Instrumentalist of the Year at the Americana Honors & Awards. “I try to say yes more than I say no,” Watkins says softly. Watkins plays the violin, guitar, ukulele and percussion. Her unique collaborations with John Paul Jones (“a true prince”) to John Mayer to the Decemberists are nearly as celebrated as her solo work and Nickel Creek, the progressive bluegrass band she co-founded in 1989 with her older brother Sean (at the ripe old age of 12) and their family friend (now superstar songwriter) Chris Thile. After getting discovered at a local pizza parlor in Carlsbad, California, Nickel Creek became country music’s Hanson. Their major-label debut record went platinum and they started opening for modest acts like Lyle Lovett and Dolly Parton. Their second album, This Side, won a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album and was produced by Alison Krauss. Nickel Creek celebrated its 25-year reunion/anniversary two years ago – a milestone typically reserved for musicians with a good 15 years on the trio. Of the miscellany of music legends Watkins has shared a stage with in her young career, she said Jackson Browne’s influence sunk in most when they toured together a few years ago. “I’ve got many memories of sitting with my back to the wall on the stage left, sitting on the ground and just listening to a song for the 20th time, hearing new metaphors being developed, new rhymes and stories unfolding,” she said. “You also learn things like how to run a business, how to treat people,” she said. “I remember he didn’t use a set list. So his shows were just fluid and beautiful.” Raised in rural Vista, California, Watkins’ neighborhood sounds Edenic. Bountiful orange groves, fruit trees and orchards lined the “unorganized acreage,” she said deprecatingly. She lived in a home built by her father and grandpa Watkins. And in 2008, she married her husband, actor-director Todd Cooper, there in the backyard. “I think a lot of what I write uses metaphors of nature, because my childhood lessons were taught through, you know, weaving gardens and planting things,” she said. “Effort in, effort out.” Sundays in the Watkins household were about spending quality time via physical labor: stacking firewood, working in the front yard and carrying water in buckets to water the ice plant. As Watkins says this, she laughs knowing that no one knows what an “ice plant” is. (It’s a kind of succulent that sparkles). “I still find it very satisfying to work outside,” she says. “It’s about seeking physical results for your work.” Both of Watkins’ parents were teachers, a plus for Sara when she discovered she hated attending school and could be homeschooled by her mother after sixth grade. “I think a lot of people don’t feel seen when they’re in school and that’s how I felt,” she said. “I’d go away to bluegrass festivals with our band on the weekends and we’d get to hang out with all of these super-cool grown-ups treating us like their peers and joking around … And then you would go back to school and it’s just – crickets and isolation.” Watkins visibly perks up talking about taking biology in “somebody’s garage.” “Each week we’d dissect something new – a worm, a frog, a fish, a fetal pig,” she said wistfully. “It was a beautiful group of nerds.” It’s clear Watkins’ scientific proclivities extend to her songwriting style. On “Without a Word,” for example, the precision of the song’s harmonies achingly elucidate romantic thoughts the narrator wishes she didn’t have. “Invisible” portrays the complicated weight of being in an unraveling marriage. “Today we walk together, but one’s ahead and one’s behind / And if there is an answer here then I am blind,” she sings. “It’s about couple who has been together a long time, coming to a point of like, ‘We can’t really divorce at this point – we can’t really do anything.'” The second single, “Move Me,” is about self-pruning, says Watkins, stoically trying not to reveal anything too personal. “I was taking steps toward the way I wanted to see my life, and this has to do with the way you maintain relationships,” she said, suddenly speaking in second-person. “This album was written during one of those course corrections … I was assessing a lot of things in my life. That brought about some turbulent feelings that I’m glad I recognized. I made the conscious decision to embrace the turbulence and move forward.” A life spent in constant motion – touring, writing, creating, playing – has left Watkins wary of those slower periods of time. Her defense mechanism has always been to do more (“If you’re in a band, you should be in another band,” she says matter-of-factly.) Her prolific career has made her a poster-child for adopting healthy distractions. But as an adult, she uses her father’s car metaphor to remind herself not to get caught in analysis paralysis. “My dad used to tell me not to stall out when I have a decision to make, because even a small choice will send you in a direction. And if it’s a wrong choice, you can almost always move, turn around, switch or pivot,” she said, choosing her words with care. “The important thing is to just make a choice – and then move on.” And should life tempt you to slam on the horn? “Yeah, you can use it,” Watkins smiles. “I’m not afraid of using it.”
