=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Attorney General of Guatemala - Wikipedia]
The attorney general of Guatemala (fiscal general de la República de Guatemala) is the chief public prosecutor and head of the Ministerio Público (Department of Justice) of Guatemala. According to article 251 of the Constitution of Guatemala, the attorney general is selected by the president from a pool of six candidates who must be lawyers and must have the same qualifications as the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attorney_General_of_Guatemala

[Attorney General of Guatemala - Wikiwand articles]
The Attorney General of Guatemala is the chief public prosecutor and head of the Ministerio Público of Guatemala.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Guatemala_Attorney_General

[Interview with Claudia Paz y Paz: First Female Attorney General of ...]
Claudia Paz y Paz served as Guatemala's first female Attorney General from December 2010 to May 2014. She is a respected criminal law specialist and judge with over 18 years of experience in human rights and social justice. She is the founder of the Institute for Comparative Criminal Studies of Guatemala (ICCPG). She has achieved unprecedented success in prosecuting human rights abuses in ...
URL: https://giwps.georgetown.edu/2014/10/07/interview-with-claudia-paz-y-paz-first-female-attorney-general-of-guatemala/

[History of Guatemala]
(b) Estrada Cabrera showed up unarmed and demanded the presidency, asserting his position as the First Designated ... The Attorney General's Office also released ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Guatemala

[Guatemala: An Overview]
Apr 4, 2025 — ... Office of Attorney General María Consuelo Porras. Officials in that ... After President Arévalo's inauguration, the Biden Administration sought to ...
URL: https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/IF12340


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Attorney General of Guatemala - Wikipedia] ---
The attorney general of Guatemala (fiscal general de la República de Guatemala) is the chief public prosecutor and head of the Ministerio Público (Department of Justice) of Guatemala. 
According to article 251 of the Constitution of Guatemala, the attorney general is selected by the president from a pool of six candidates who must be lawyers and must have the same qualifications as the magistrates of the Supreme Court. They are nominated by a commission conformed by the chief justice of the Supreme Court, the deans of the law schools of the country's universities, and both the chairman of the bar association and of its honor tribunal.  
The attorney general has a term of four years and has the same immunity as the magistrates of the Supreme Court. The president can remove the official only due to a justified reason properly established. This reason according to article 14 of the Organic Law of the Ministerio Público is conviction of the attorney general for committing a crime during the exercise of their functions.


--- [Attorney General of Guatemala - Wikiwand articles] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Interview with Claudia Paz y Paz: First Female Attorney General of ...] ---
Interview with Claudia Paz y Paz: First Female Attorney General of Guatemala Claudia Paz y Paz served as Guatemala’s first female Attorney General from December 2010 to May 2014. She is a respected criminal law specialist and judge with over 18 years of experience in human rights and social justice. She is the founder of the Institute for Comparative Criminal Studies of Guatemala (ICCPG). She has achieved unprecedented success in prosecuting human rights abuses in Guatemala through high profile cases, such as former dictator Efrain Rios Montt, and the perpetrators of the Dos Erres Massacre. She has reduced crime and impunity in Guatemala through her commitment to justice. She has led a concrete, coordinated effort to purge corrupt officials in both the police and the judicial system, and has worked extensively on improving women’s rights in Guatemala. Her tenure was cut short and she was replaced as Attorney General by Ms. Thelma Aldana, a former head of the Supreme Court. Dr. Paz y Paz will be returning to academia for one year as a Distinguished Scholar in Residence, with a joint appointment between GIWPS and the Georgetown University Law Center. On October 1st, 2014 we sat down to talk to Dr. Paz y Paz about some of the toughest issues she faced as Attorney General and how she achieved such incredible results in her country. Read the full transcript of our interview below. Parts of the interview have been edited for length and clarity. Q: During your tenure as Attorney General of Guatemala, you tackled corruption, illegal trafficking, and gang violence. Can you tell us about what the situation was like when you first took office and what you and your team did to change it? The levels of impunity were very high. They say that it was 95% of impunity, and violence was also very high, with murders, etc…So when we first started building special teams to investigate all the crime, I worked a lot with scientific evidence, working very closely with the special police team, we changed that situation of impunity from 95% to 70%. So we reduced impunity, and with that we also reduced the homicide rate from 46% in 2009 to 33% last year. When we started the prosecutor’s office, there was a lack of confidence in the justice institutions, and we built trust in the citizens toward our office. We did that by working hard. When we started important investigations, when there were big crimes, like the killing of the singer from Argentina Facundo Cabral, we could solve it very quickly…and, for example, there was also a murder of 27 persons by drug traffickers, and we could solve it. The perpetrators of those murders were the Zetas, the Mexican couple, and we investigated and found the perpetrators, so those parts of the cases brought the trust of the citizens. Q: You tried and convicted former dictator Efrain Rios Montt of war crimes and genocide, but in May 2013 the Constitutional Court of Guatemala overturned the conviction. Can you tell us what you think of this decision and how it reflects the level of political impunity in your country? I believe that the trial was very important for my country. For the first time, the victims had the opportunity to tell what happened in the villages in front of the perpetrator. They could tell it in their own language, and by telling this, they recovered part of the dignity that was stolen when they suffered so many human rights violations. So when the judges said that he was guilty and that it was genocide and crimes against humanity, it was very important for the victims, but, I believe, also for all the country. Q: And what was your reaction when his conviction was overturned? We did not agree with that sentence from the Constitutional Court, because we believe that they were normal and not extraordinary instances to review that decision, and also because the trial was respectful of all the due process. Q: You have worked extensively on improving women’s rights in Guatemala. The Vital Voices Leadership in Public Life award celebrated you for your efforts this past summer. Can you tell us about some of the measures you implemented to protect women in Guatemala and what you hope will be accomplished by your successor to continue your efforts? Violence against women is the most reported crime in my country; we have to work very hard to prevent this crime and to punish if it is committed. So we implemented 24-hour calls, so that the women could always come and receive 24-hour service from the Prosecutor’s office. We did this because they don’t suffer violence from 8am to 4pm; they suffer violence all times of the day. There, in just one place, there were psychologists, social workers, prosecutors, police, surgeons, forensic medics and doctors so that they could get the total attention that they needed in just one stop. Q: Can you tell us about your future research work on human rights as a Distinguished Scholar in Residence with GIWPS and the Georgetown University Law Center? What do you hope to accomplish with this research? I am now writing about my experience in the past years, so that what we learned could be used for others. I hope to document and highlight the methods or the practices that lead to the possibility of increasing justice and reducing impunity in Guatemala. Q: Can you share with us one or two of your most powerful memories from your tenure as attorney general? There was a very big gang that raped women, and we had the chance to investigate this network of criminals, and they were punished for the instance of rape. That was an important case. Also I have the memory when I finished my work, I left the office and there were a lot of men and women that were waiting for me with flowers to say that they were grateful because they had had a better chance to get justice in the past years. Q: Is there anything you would like to add? I remember that there was a grandfather whose daughter was killed by her husband, who fled the country with the man’s two grandchildren. When we were able to find this man and to bring back the little children, I will always remember his smile after he saw his grandchildren. Dr. Paz y Paz holds a joint appointment with the Georgetown University Law Center and the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security. She conducts independent research related to human rights, justice and women, peace and security in Latin America. She also participates in symposia, seminar discussions and other public events in Washington, D.C. and beyond. Annabelle Timsit is the undergraduate Research Assistant at the Institute for Women, Peace and Security. She is a second year student in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, and is majoring in International Politics with a concentration in Foreign Policy. Explore More The Taliban’s new penal code: Two weeks in jail for breaking a… Women, Peace and Security Conflict Tracker: February Updates Our Women, Peace and Security Conflict Tracker combines real-time data points and…


--- [History of Guatemala] ---
The history of Guatemala traces back to the Maya civilization (2600 BC – 1697 AD), with the country's modern history beginning with the Spanish conquest of Guatemala in 1524. By 1000 AD, most of the major Classic-era (250–900 AD) Maya cities in the Petén Basin, located in the northern lowlands, had been abandoned. The Maya states in the Belize central highlands continued to thrive until the Spanish conquistador Pedro de Alvarado—called "The Invader" by the Maya—arrived in 1525 and began to subdue the indigenous populations.
For nearly 330 years, Guatemala was part of the Captaincy General of Guatemala, which was based out of Antigua Guatemala and included the present-day countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, as well as the Mexican state of Chiapas. The colony declared its independence on 15 September 1821 and briefly joined the First Mexican Empire in 1822. By 1824, Guatemala became a member of the Federal Republic of Central America, and upon the Republic's dissolution in 1841, it gained full independence.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, foreign agricultural companies, particularly the United Fruit Company (UFC), were drawn to Guatemala. These companies were bolstered by the country's authoritarian rulers and support from the U.S. government, which enforced harsh labor regulations and granted vast concessions to wealthy landowners. The oppressive policies of Jorge Ubico led to a popular uprising in 1944, sparking the ten-year Guatemalan Revolution. During the presidencies of Juan José Arévalo and Jacobo Árbenz, the country experienced wide-ranging social and economic reforms, including a successful agrarian reform program and increased literacy.
The progressive reforms of Arévalo and Árbenz alarmed the UFC, which lobbied the U.S. government to intervene. This led to a U.S.-backed coup that ousted Árbenz and installed a military regime. This regime's rise initiated a period of military governments, culminating in a civil war from 1960 to 1996. The conflict was marked by severe human rights violations, including the Guatemalan genocide of the indigenous Maya by the military. After the war ended, Guatemala re-established a representative democracy but has since struggled with high crime rates and ongoing extrajudicial killings, often carried out by security forces.


--- [Guatemala: An Overview] ---
Guatemala: An Overview CRS PRODUCT (LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) Hide Overview| CRS Product Type: | In Focus | |---|---| | CRS Product Number: | IF12340 | | Referenced Legislation: | P.L.116-260; P.L.118-158; P.L.118-47; P.L.118-83 | | Topics: | Foreign Affairs | | Publication Date: | 04/04/2025 | | Author: | Rios, Karla I. | Guatemala, the most populous country in Central America, has strived to consolidate its democracy since the 1990s. It has faced many political and social challenges, as well as human rights abuses and widespread impunity. Traditionally, the United States and Guatemala have had close relations, with friction at times over certain issues, such as corruption and migration. The 119th Congress may seek to assess the U.S.- Guatemala relationship on the aforementioned issues, the promotion of democracy, and efforts to combat illicit drug trafficking. | Guatemala at a Glance Area: 42,000 square miles, about the size of Tennessee Population: 18.1 million (2024, IMF est.) Ethnic Composition: Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish; Ladino in local Spanish) 62.8%, Maya 34.9%, Xinka (Indigenous, non-Maya) 2.1%, Garifuna 0.1%, foreign 0.1% (2018 est., INE) Gross Domestic Product (GDP)/Per Capita GDP: $112.4 billion/$6,300 (2024, current prices, IMF) Key Import Partners: United States (29.1%), China (19.7%), Mexico (10.2%), El Salvador (3.32%) (2024, TDM) Key Export Partners: United States (31.9%), El Salvador (13.4%), Honduras (11.5%), Nicaragua (7.27%) (2023, TDM) Sources: International Monetary Fund (IMF); National Statistics Institute of Guatemala (INE); Trade Data Monitor (TDM). | Political Situation Guatemala has a long history of internal conflict and violence, including a 36-year civil war (1960-1996). For most of that period, the Guatemalan military held power and repressed citizens' human rights. An estimated 200,000 people were killed or disappeared during the civil conflict; 83% of the victims were Indigenous. In 1986, Guatemala established a civilian democratic government, but military repression continued. In 1996, then-President Álvaro Arzú (1996-2000) and Guatemala's main insurgent group, the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unit (URNG), signed United Nations-mediated peace accords to end the conflict. Nearly 30 years later, some of the goals put forth in the accords, such as eradicating extreme poverty, integrating Indigenous Guatemalans, and bolstering institutions, remain unfulfilled. Successive governments have struggled to strengthen the Guatemalan justice system to punish perpetrators of grave human rights abuses and massive corruption. Indigenous Guatemalans continue to face poverty and social exclusion. Guatemala's democratic institutions remain fragile, largely due to high levels of state capture by elites. Current President Bernardo Arévalo, from the center-left Movimiento Semilla party, won Guatemala's 2023 presidential elections—capturing 58% of the vote—following a tumultuous election period marred by alleged irregularities and the disqualification of several leading candidates. Since his inauguration in January 2024, Arévalo has had trouble advancing his agenda, including anti-corruption efforts. Arévalo's Semilla party has 23 of 160 seats in Guatemala's congress; in November 2023, prosecutors suspended the party's status and declared its lawmakers as independents. In January 2025, Arévalo's approval rating stood at 39%, a decrease from 54% reported in May 2024. Arévalo also has had to contend with repeated legal challenges from the Office of Attorney General María Consuelo Porras. Officials in that office have engaged in legal maneuvers against Arévalo since the election period and throughout his term, including seeking to lift Arévalo's immunity from prosecution and ordering arrests of party members, among other actions. Since 2021, the United States has designated Porras and other top Guatemalan prosecutors for allegedly obstructing high-profile corruption investigations against some government officials. At least 45 prosecutors and judges, including many who worked with the U.S.-backed International Commission Against Corruption in Guatemala (CICIG; 2007-2019), have fled Guatemala since 2018. Others have been imprisoned. Although constitutionally the President can remove the Attorney General for a "duly justified cause," a law (the Ley Orgánica del Ministerio Público) requires due process for the removal of the Attorney General. In accordance with that law, Arévalo has filed criminal complaints against Porras for abuse of authority and has proposed legal reforms to remove the attorney general prior to the end of her term in 2026. Economic and Social Conditions Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with an estimated gross domestic product (GDP) of $112.4 billion in 2024, according to the International Monetary Fund. Despite average real GDP growth of 3.5% per year over the past decade, more than 55% of the population live in poverty. Roughly 79% of Indigenous Guatemalans live in poverty, many of whom reside in the Western highlands, a high migrant-sending region of the country. Guatemala's tax-to-GDP ratio, which at 14.4% was the fourth lowest in Latin America in 2022—severely limits the funds available for public services and investments. Guatemala is also home to one of the youngest populations in Latin America, with more than 60% of citizens under 29 years of age, according to Guatemala's 2018 census. Although the country's growing working-age population could boost economic growth, many youth face difficult circumstances and limited opportunities. According to the World Bank, Guatemala's child malnutrition rate is among the 10 highest in the world, with long-term effects on education and earnings prospects. About 71% of the population is employed in the informal economy, lacking job protections or benefits. U.S.-Guatemalan Relations Over the past four years, U.S. policy in Guatemala has focused on dismantling local and regional transnational criminal organizations and gangs; combating the flow of illicit drugs to the United States; strengthening border and citizen security in Guatemala and the region; fighting corruption; building democratic institutions; and addressing the root causes of migration, among other priorities. The Biden Administration initially sought to increase engagement with the administration of President Alejandro Giammattei (2019-2024) to curb migration and drug trafficking. U.S. concerns about antidemocratic and corrupt practices by Guatemalan officials strained relations, however, particularly during the 2023 elections. After President Arévalo's inauguration, the Biden Administration sought to revitalize the U.S.-Guatemala relationship, including through new initiatives to address migration, governance, and security challenges. In January 2025, Marco Rubio visited Guatemala as part of his first trip abroad as Secretary of State. He discussed cooperation with Guatemala on migration, drug trafficking, and economic issues, among other topics. Migration The U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) encountered more than 204,252 Guatemalans at the southwest border during FY2024. As of January 2025, CBP had encountered 29,318 Guatemalans in FY2025, roughly a 72% decrease from the same period last year. The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) had identified the lack of economic opportunities, extortion, crime and violence, and corruption as the top drivers of irregular migration from Guatemala. Congress may assess bilateral cooperation on migration issues and options for enhancing such efforts. Guatemala expels irregular migrants from its territory; maintains a U.S.-trained border task force, with support from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Defense; and has sought to cooperate with the Trump Administration on migration policy. In January 2025, the Arévalo administration reportedly said it could accommodate up to 20 U.S. deportation flights a week, up from 14 weekly under the Biden Administration. In February 2025, during a joint press conference with Secretary Rubio, President Arévalo offered to increase the number of flights of Guatemalan deportees and to receive deportees of other nationalities. Democracy and Governance The Biden Administration took various actions intended to stem Guatemala's backsliding on corruption and the rule of law. The U.S. State Department has imposed visa sanctions on Attorney General Porras and her family, among other Guatemalan officials and economic elites, pursuant to the United States-Northern Triangle Enhanced Engagement Act (P.L. 116-260, Division FF, Subtitle F) and Section 7031(c) of annual Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs (SFOPS) Appropriations Acts. In January 2024, the State Department designated former President Giammattei and three of his children as generally ineligible for entry into the United States, pursuant to Section 7031(c). To date, the Trump Administration has not designated new sanctions on Guatemalan nationals. U.S. Assistance For FY2023, the United States allocated an estimated $121.4 million in U.S. bilateral foreign assistance to Guatemala, including $80.9 million in Development Assistance (DA), $40.2 million in Global Health Programs (GHP) funding, and $320,000 in International Military and Education Training (IMET) aid. FY2024 allocations are not yet publicly available. For FY2025, the Biden Administration had requested $115.8 million for Guatemala—$90.0 million in DA; $25.0 million in GHP; and $800,000 in IMET. Guatemala typically received additional assistance through the Central America Regional Security Initiative and other regional programs. The FY2024 SFOPS legislation (P.L. 118-47, Division F) requires the State Department to withhold 60% of Economic Support Fund and security assistance to the Guatemalan government until the Secretary of State certifies the Guatemalan government has met conditions related to corruption and public integrity, human rights, and migration, among other issues. The State Department has not yet issued such a certification. P.L. 118-47 also prohibits Foreign Military Financing (FMF) to Guatemala. For FY2025, Congress has passed two continuing resolutions (P.L. 118-83 and P.L. 118-158) that fund foreign assistance programs in Guatemala under the same conditions as FY2024 from October 1, 2024, until March 14, 2025. Secretary Rubio has announced the cancellation of thousands of foreign assistance contracts. The full scope of the cancellations remains unclear, though they reportedly include some USAID-managed agriculture, education, environment, democracy and governance, humanitarian assistance, and rule-of-law activities in Guatemala. During a February 2025 visit to Guatemala, Secretary Rubio commended Guatemala's cooperation on anti-drug efforts and described U.S. support for such efforts as "the kind of foreign aid America wants to be involved in." These documents were prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.
