=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ciara proves she still has the 'Goodies' at Houston show - Chron]
Sep 25, 2019 · More than a decade later, Ciara has still got the good (ie)s. Now 33, she performed Tuesday night at House of Blues for a spirited crowd as part of her Beauty Marks Tour.
URL: https://www.chron.com/entertainment/music/article/Ciara-proves-she-still-has-the-goodies-at-Houston-14465922.php

[Ciara Announces Beauty Marks Tour Dates - VIBE.com]
Jun 6, 2019 — Beginning on Sept. 13, Ciara will perform in Washington at the state's Fair Events Center. She'll wrap up her trek on Oct. 4 at Chicago's Park West.
URL: https://www.vibe.com/music/music-news/ciara-beauty-marks-fall-tour-652634/

[Ciara Announces 'Beauty Marks Tour' - Rated R&B]
Jun 6, 2019 · After releasing Beauty Marks in May, her first independent album, Ciara announces her supporting fall tour. The five-city tour will kick off on September 13 at the Washington State Fair Events Center in Puyallup, Wash. The Harvard scholar and her squad will then hit up major cities in the U.S. including Los Angeles, Atlanta and Chicago.
URL: https://ratedrnb.com/2019/06/ciara-announces-beauty-marks-tour/

[Ciara Concert Setlist at House of Blues, Houston on September ...]
Sep 24, 2019 · Get the Ciara Setlist of the concert at House of Blues, Houston, TX, USA on September 24, 2019 from the Beauty Marks Tour and other Ciara Setlists for free on setlist.fm!
URL: https://www.setlist.fm/setlist/ciara/2019/house-of-blues-houston-tx-5ba1bfac.html

[CIARA GETS A SURPRISE ON STAGE IN ATLANTA- Beauty Marks ...]
Missing:
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXz09TJ2PRI


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ciara proves she still has the 'Goodies' at Houston show - Chron] ---
Has it really been 15 years since we first met Ciara? The singer and dancer, who was born in Austin to a military family, was just 18 years old when "Goodies" topped the Billboard Hot 100 for seven weeks, positioning her at the intersection of Janet Jackson and Aaliyah. More than a decade later, Ciara has still got the good(ie)s. Now 33, she performed Tuesday night at House of Blues for a spirited crowd as part of her Beauty Marks Tour. It's named for her seventh studio album, released this year on her own label. The 75-minute set included several songs from "Beauty Marks" but was lifted by Ciara's array of slinky, bouncy hits. She filled every part of the stage with eight dancers and huge letters that spelled her name. Fans frequently danced shoulder to shoulder. Want more Chron? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search. She blasted onstage with 2018 single "Dose," all in white and her hair swaying past her waist. By the third song, she was already shimmering with sweat. Later, she strutted in form-fitting red and black latex. Every song was a renewed blast of energy. She made up for the lack of arena-size production with small touches. A set of sunglasses during the surge of "Goodies." A red light bar during "Ride." A dance break to Megan Thee Stallion's "Big Ole Freak" and a quick lesson on how to do the "Tootsee Roll."(To the left, to the left ...) The atmospheric ballad "Promise" gave Ciara a brief solo moment before she was rejoined by dancers. Fans were particularly enthralled by a slow jam medley that included "And I," "Sorry" and "I Bet." Ciara is, of course, an effortless, charismatic dancer. But she's also a supple vocalist. She makes the most of her range by never overshooting a run and pulling emotion out of the slightest whisper. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "Girl Gang" boasted "Rhythm Nation"-esque choreography. The gender play of "Like a Boy" is still one of the highlights of her catalog. "Thinkin Bout You" should be a huge pop hit. She invited a male fan onstage for a lap dance during "Like a Surgeon." He laid flat on his back as Ciara and a pair of dancers straddled him. He looked shell-shocked as he left the stage. Ciara closed with "1, 2 Step" and "Level Up," a pair of songs that contrast her arrival and her present-day sound. Crunk&B or Jersey club -- it's still an intoxicating sound. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Joey Guerra is the music critic for the Houston Chronicle. Follow him on Twitter. Send news tips to joey.guerra@chron.com. PREVIEW: Get experts’ picks for concerts, kids’ stuff, fine arts, movies and more delivered to your inbox weekly. Joey Guerra is the music critic for the Houston Chronicle. He also covers various aspects of pop culture. He has reviewed hundreds of concerts and interviewed hundreds of celebrities, from Taylor Swift to Dolly Parton to Beyonce. He’s appeared as a regular correspondent on Fox26 and was head judge and director of the Pride Superstar singing competition for a decade. He has been named journalist of the year multiple times by both OutSmart Magazine and the FACE Awards. He also covers various aspects of pop culture, including the local drag scene and "RuPaul's Drag Race." Want more Chron? Make us a Preferred Source on Google to see more of us when you search.


--- [Ciara Announces Beauty Marks Tour Dates - VIBE.com] ---
Since the release of her seventh studio album, Beauty Marks, Ciara has hit the go button in terms of churning out content to support the aforementioned project. To keep its momentum building, the “Promise” singer recently announced an intimate fall tour that’ll have the mother-of-two traveling from coast to coast. Beginning on Sept. 13, Ciara will perform in Washington at the state’s Fair Events Center. She’ll wrap up her trek on Oct. 4 at Chicago’s Park West. The news arrives days after CiCi completed a business program at Harvard University. “I always dreamt of going to college, but by God’s grace, my music career took me on a path that I’m so thankful for,” she said. “This week I got accepted into Harvard! Words cannot describe my excitement!” Tickets hit the market on June 14 at 10 a.m. local time. Sept. 13 – Puyallup, Wash. – Washington State Fair Events Center Sept. 17 – Los Angeles, Calif. – The Wiltern Sept. 24 – Houston, Texas – House of Blues Sept. 26 – Atlanta, Ga. – CenterStage Oct. 1 – New York, NY – Sony Hall Oct. 4 – Chicago, Ill. – Park West


--- [Ciara Announces 'Beauty Marks Tour' - Rated R&B] ---
After releasing Beauty Marks in May, her first independent album, Ciara announces her supporting fall tour. The five-city tour will kick off on September 13 at the Washington State Fair Events Center in Puyallup, Wash. The Harvard scholar and her squad will then hit up major cities in the U.S. including Los Angeles, Atlanta and Chicago. Ciara’s Beauty Mark Tour is her first tour since her Jackie era. Tickets for the Beauty Marks Tour go on sale June 14 at 10 a.m. local time. Ciara Beauty Marks Tour Dates Sept. 13 – Puyallup, Wash. @Washington State Fair Events Center Sept. 17 – Los Angeles, Calif. @ The Wiltern Sept. 24 – Houston, Texas @ House of Blues Sept. 26 – Atlanta, Ga. @ CenterStage Oct. 1 – New York, NY @ Sony Hall Oct. 4 – Chicago, Ill. @ Park West


--- [Ciara Concert Setlist at House of Blues, Houston on September ...] ---
Sep 24 2019 Ciara Setlist at House of Blues, Houston, TX, USA Tour: Beauty Marks Tour Edits and Comments 2 activities (last edit by well_luigi, 2 Mar 2026, 00:27 UTC) Show edits and commentsSongs on Albums Ciara Gig Timeline Share or embed this setlist Use this setlist for your event review and get all updates automatically! HTML Code Last.fm Event Review


--- [CIARA GETS A SURPRISE ON STAGE IN ATLANTA- Beauty Marks ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
