=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Douglas Bennett (cricketer, born 1886) - Wikipedia]
Douglas Bennett (19 November 1886 – 14 August 1982) was a South African cricketer. He played in seven first-class matches from 1912–13 to 1923–24. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Douglas_Bennett_(cricketer,_born_1886)

[WikiRoulette — Random Wikipedia Pages]
Douglas Bennett (19 November 1886 – 14 August 1982) was a South African cricketer. He played in seven first-class matches from 1912–13 to 1923–24. [1]
URL: https://wikiroulette.co/?p=Douglas_Bennett_%28cricketer%2C_born_1886%29

[Douglas Bennett Profile - Cricket Player South Africa - ESPNcricinfo]
Read about Douglas Bennett cricket player from South Africa profile, stats, rankings, records, videos, photos at ESPNcricinfo
URL: https://www.espncricinfo.com/cricketers/douglas-bennett-44320

[1900s cricket | Old Ebor - WordPress.com]
He played two first-class matches without achieving much of note and was ... first-class games against Lancashire and the touring South African team in 1924.
URL: https://oldebor.wordpress.com/category/1900s-cricket/

[List of Eastern Province representative cricketers]
This is a list of all cricketers who have played first-class, List A or Twenty20 cricket for Eastern Province cricket team in South Africa.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Eastern_Province_representative_cricketers


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Douglas Bennett (cricketer, born 1886) - Wikipedia] ---
Douglas Bennett (19 November 1886 – 14 August 1982) was a South African cricketer. He played in seven first-class matches from 1912–13 to 1923–24.


--- [WikiRoulette — Random Wikipedia Pages] ---
Install the Chrome ExtensionAbout WikiRoulette Use the left and right arrows to move forward and back left right Made by @minouye


--- [Douglas Bennett Profile - Cricket Player South Africa - ESPNcricinfo] ---
No content


--- [1900s cricket | Old Ebor - WordPress.com] ---
Aubrey Faulkner (Image: Bystander, 18 January 1911) Aubrey Faulkner was one of the most brilliant cricketers active before the Second World War, and as an all-rounder it is doubtful he had an equal at Test level until Garry Sobers reached his peak. If few people today have heard of him, his statistical record, unusually for a pre-war cricketer, stands up well. As an early adopter of the googly, he was a leading bowler but he was an excellent batter too. In 25 Test matches between 1906 and 1924, Faulkner scored 1,754 runs at an average of 40.79 and took 82 wickets at 26.58. Such all-round excellence has rarely been equalled at the top level. Among those to have scored at least 1,000 Test runs and taken at least fifty wickets, the difference between his averages (14.20) has only been surpassed by Sobers, Jacques Kallis and Imran Khan. And yet historians have paid surprisingly little attention to a man whose record demands more. Other achievements off the field also set Faulkner apart. He was decorated for his military service in the First World War; and in the 1920s, he was a highly regarded coach, and several graduates of his pioneering indoor cricket school played for England. But for such a successful man, little survives about his life away from the sport. Other than his cricketing record, and a few sparse reminiscences, Faulkner has largely remained a statistical edifice. Later in his life — possibly throughout it — he was a troubled man, and most writing about him is overshadowed by knowledge of how his story ended: in his unexpected suicide in 1930. The main work on Faulkner remains a brief biography by Brian Bassano, produced for the Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians in 2001. There have also been chapters or extended sections on him in other works, such as David Frith in Silence of the Heart (2001) or Gavin Mortimer’s Fields of Glory (2001). More recently, Jarrod Kimber wrote of Faulkner in an article for ESPNcricinfo in 2016. It is a sparse bibliography for a man who most of his contemporaries considered to be one of the greatest cricketers. Part of the reason might be the understandable discomfort for modern historians in dwelling too long on South African cricketers from the period in which Faulkner played. At the time, only white men were permitted to play first-class cricket or to represent South Africa. Perhaps Faulkner fell into that very particular memory hole, an era sometimes airbrushed from history. Perhaps this is simply historical redress for the many contemporary black or mixed-race cricketers denied opportunities, about whom nothing much will ever be known. As Kimber puts it: “Faulkner was a white South African who played over a century ago. Who is going to fight for a man who played for a racially segregated country in an era of little success? A man who put his financial security above his country’s needs? Who only played 25 Tests?” Yet Faulkner was associated with England, where he spent most of the final eighteen years of his life, as much as South Africa. The best first-hand account — and many of the details about his early life — comes from Ian Peebles, who worked with him for a time at Faulkner’s London cricket school, where the two men had an unusually intense working relationship. If Peebles ultimately was Faulkner’s failed experiment — an attempt to reproduce the technique and devastating success of Sydney Barnes — he left an affectionate portrait of his former coach-turned-employer in his 1977 autobiography Spinner’s Yarn. But even Peebles knew little about Faulkner’s early life. Aubrey Faulkner in 1907 George Aubrey Faulkner was born in Port Elizabeth, part of modern South Africa but then known as the Cape Colony, on 17 December 1881. Peebles noted that “about his early past he was reticent”. From their conversations in the 1920s, Peebles formed some impressions. But these were based on Faulkner’s own tales, which Peebles noted could be selective. And, as ever, an account written nearly fifty years later must be treated with caution. With these caveats, Peebles is the only source on Faulkner’s youth: “I gathered that he had been born of middle-class parents, but that his father had been an alcoholic, with a tendency to violence where his wife was concerned. This may well have accounted for Faulkner’s attitude towards drink. Once in a burst of uncharacteristic candour he told me that after one such assault he had lain in wait for his father who returned drunk and truculent. Aubrey had gone for him; ‘I nearly killed him,’ he added.” Much has been extrapolated from this “burst of uncharacteristic candour”; nothing else is known of Faulkner’s childhood, except that his father was wealthy enough to send him to the respectable Wynberg Boys’ High School in Cape Town. But if Peebles’ recollection of that single anecdote is accurate, it might not be too much of a stretch to suggest — as many have, from Bassano to Kimber — that it accounted for the rootless nature of his later life. Perhaps a few more details can be added to this picture. Family trees on Ancestry.com suggest that Faulkner’s father was a London-born man called Frank MacDonald Faulkner, and his mother was Caroline Matilda Boys. They also suggest that Faulkner had two younger sisters. None of this is sourced, but if it is correct, Frank Faulkner was a clerk and a freemason who died in 1907. Coincidentally or not, that was around the time that Faulkner truly emerged as a world-class cricketer. In any case, Faulkner left home relatively young. He might have worked as a clerk in Johannesburg in the 1890s. According to Gavin Mortimer, Faulkner regularly attended the Old Wanderer’s Ground to bowl in the nets there after work, but was not taken too seriously as he was overweight at the time. A slightly suspect story survives, in which the South African Test batter Jimmy Sinclair grew exasperated at Faulkner’s inaccuracy and suggested he attend the junior nets instead; Faulkner surreptitiously rejoined the line of senior bowlers and dismissed Sinclair with a quicker delivery. When the Second Boer War (1899–1902) broke out, Faulkner joined the Imperial Light Horse, a British regiment based in Johannesburg, as a trooper; his military record stated that he was entitled to the “Cape Colony” and “Transvaal” medals. According to his obituary in The Cricketer, during this time, while he was living in Cape Town, Faulkner received cricket coaching from the English professional cricketer Walter Richards, who had been employed by Western Province. Yet he also was involved in fighting. Frith records how he “saw action in the relief operations at Mafeking and Ladysmith as a gunner.” Another fragment about Faulkner’s early life is that he worked — again according to Frith — as a clerk in a Cape Town gold-mining around 1901. By then, Faulkner had lost weight, reached a height of six feet and was improving rapidly as a cricketer. He played club cricket in the Cape Town area, and around 1902 he moved to Johannesburg where his success at a lower level led to his selection for Transvaal in South Africa’s Currie Cup competition. He played two first-class matches without achieving much of note and was dropped. But perhaps more importantly, one of his team-mates was the former Middlesex player Reginald Schwarz, who had moved to South Africa to work as Abe Bailey’s private secretary, part of the latter’s drive to improve South African cricket. In 1904, a South African team including Schwarz toured England. At the time, Middlesex’s Bernard Bosanquet was at the height of his powers, having unleashed the googly — an off-break that was disguised as a leg-break — on cricket a few seasons previously and having already won a Test match for England. On the opening day of the tour, playing for the MCC, Bosanquet took nine for 107 (including four stumpings), baffling the touring batters with his googly. Afterwards, Schwarz persuaded his old Middlesex team-mate to reveal the method to him. Schwarz adopted the technique with great success during the tour, and when he returned to South Africa, he passed on the secret to Transvaal players including Faulkner. Perhaps that was the missing piece of the jigsaw. Faulkner was recalled by Transvaal for the 1905–06 season and although he achieved little in a Currie Cup match against Western Province, he played for Transvaal against a touring MCC team. An unbeaten 63 and six wickets in the match was enough to interest the South Africa selectors, and he was chosen for all five Test matches against the MCC (which, as customary, was named “England” for the Tests). If his batting was unremarkable — 129 runs at 18.42 — he took 14 wickets at 19.42 and was a key part of the South African attack. Faulkner’s debut was South Africa’s first ever Test victory, a nervy one-wicket win. He played a key role with four for 26 in England’s second innings. The home side went on to dominate the series, winning 4–1 against a below-strength England team, to the delight of the home crowds and of Abe Bailey. By then, South Africa possessed four googly bowlers: apart from Faulkner, Schwarz also passed on the delivery to Ernie Vogler and Gordon White. Although the leading wicket-takers were J. H. Sinclair and S. J. Snooke, neither of whom were googly bowlers, a brief report in Wisden commented on “the spin and quickness off the ground of [the South African] bowlers, most of them of the leg-break type.” And the author noted that “on one or two occasions Faulkner, who has never yet been seen in [England], was more difficult than anyone else.” It was the first experience by English batters of facing the googly, for which the matting pitches used in South Africa were ideal. The surface offered more grip than turf wickets, rewarding the sharp spin imparted on the ball by the South African wrist-spinners. After this series, Faulkner continued to improve, scoring his maiden first-class century in 1906–07 and taking 35 first-class wickets at 13.77. As such, he was a certain selection for the 1907 tour of England. By then, Faulkner was employed as an engineer by the Central South African Railways; according to Geoffrey Levett, in a 2014 thesis, Faulkner was one of seven members of the 1907 South African team that toured England who were “directly employed by the mining industry based on the Rand.” The South African team that toured England in 1907; Faulkner is sitting on the floor on the left (Image: Wikipedia) The 1907 tour included South Africa’s first Test matches in England, and the home side narrowly won the three-match series 1–0 thanks to a tense victory in the second match, at Headingley, on a dreadfully rain-affected pitch. In other matches, the strength of the South African bowling proved too much for most opposition. Of 27 first-class matches played by the touring side, 17 were won and only four lost, including the Test match. The impact of the googly bowlers was immense, and much discussion took place about the difficulty of facing them and the damage that might be done to batting by the dangers of the googly. Faulkner was a solid but unspectacular member of the team. He scored over a thousand first-class runs, including two centuries, at an average just short of thirty, which was quite an achievement in such a wet summer and headed the South African batting averages. With the ball, he took 64 wickets at 15.82, placing him fourth among the googly quartet. The most dangerous bowler was Vogler, the most accurate was Schwarz. But the Wisden review of the tour said: “A good many batsmen thought that on his day Faulkner was the most difficult of the four bowlers, but in the general result he fell far below Schwarz and Vogler.” In the Tests, Faulkner scored only 117 runs at 23.40 but he had a greater impact with the ball. He took 12 wickets at 18.16 but half of those came in an astonishing spell during the Headingley Test when he took six for 17 in 11 overs to bowl England out for 76 on the first day. The Wisden reporter observed: “Disguising his break with the utmost skill, he made the ball turn so much both ways that the batsmen were almost hopeless against him.” The England captain R. E. Foster also wrote about the South African bowling: “Faulkner and White are to all intents and purposes the same bowler. They deliver the ball from practically the same height, and the flight, pace, and break are almost identical. But Faulkner is certainly the more dangerous bowler, and, if there is any difference, comes through the air and off the pitch a shade faster, and is undoubtedly capable of bowling a more unplayable ball. His performance at Leeds in the first innings against England is surely the greatest that has ever been achieved in this unorthodox style of bowling.” Foster also noted that “Faulkner did not get into form till practically July and was hardly ever called upon.” In his description of the bowling, he said that Faulkner bowled in the manner of a traditional English leg-break bowler but the ball came much faster from the pitch, and there was the danger of the unexpected googly; Faulkner turned this delivery more than any of his team-mates. In all matches, the googly bowlers took 421 wickets between them and ignited a fever for googly bowling that resulted in several English (and Australian) wrist-spinners emerging over the following years. The other major effect of the tour was that it convinced Abe Bailey that South Africa was now the cricketing equal of England and Australia; he pushed for a “triangular tournament” that eventually was played in 1912, and he began to insist that Test cricket was a purely white, imperialist sport that could bind the British Empire together. As for Faulkner, he returned home and worked further on his bowling in the nets. He developed considerably as a batter too. After a good season with Transvaal in 1908–09 (he did not play during the 1907–08 season because the Currie Cup was not contested), he once again faced English opposition in 1909–10. The MCC team was relatively strong; several first-choice players took part, largely in reaction to South Africa’s success in 1907. In the five-Test series, Faulkner — who had failed to pass fifty in his first eight Tests — scored 545 runs at 60.55. In the first Test, he scored 78 and 123, his first fifty and first century; he scored two other fifties in the series. With the ball, he took 29 wickets at 21.89. In the history of Test cricket, only one other player — Garry Sobers in 1966 for the West Indies against England — has matched Faulkner’s feat in scoring over 500 runs and taking more than 20 wickets in a series, and there have been only a total 24 instances in the history of the game of a player scoring 250 runs and taking 20 wickets in a series. South Africa won the first two Tests, and took the series 3–2. The result was never in doubt as England lacked the batting strength to fight off the googly bowling of Vogler (who took 36 wickets) and Faulkner, who between them took 65 of the 85 wickets to fall to bowlers. Faulkner was also a key figure in Transvaal’s victory over the MCC team, scoring a century and taking nine wickets in the match. Only Jack Hobbs was able to find any answers against the googly, and his success established him among the best batters in the world. Critics noted that South Africa were not quite as effective as in 1907, and in reality the team was already in decline. When they toured Australia for the first time, in 1910–11, they were overwhelmed and lost the Test series 4–1. Only Faulkner maintained his reputation. In the five Tests, he scored 732 runs at 73.20, including two centuries — one of them an innings of 204 — and five fifties. By that stage, he was among the best batters in the world. But the googly failed to make an impact on hard Australian pitches, and Faulkner’s ten wickets cost 51.40 runs each (although in all first-class matches he took 49 wickets at 25.59). If the tour was a personal triumph for Faulkner, he was already planning his exit from South African cricket. Florence Faulkner in 1917 (Image: The Sketch, 24 January 1917) On 26 June 1911, Faulkner married Florence Millicent Thompson in Cape Town. The following month, the couple sailed for England, where Faulkner hoped to qualify for county cricket; rumour suggested Surrey or Middlesex. Reports in English newspapers also stated that he had “fairly long experience” of the Stock Exchange in Johannesburg; the implication was that he would work in London, but neither the reports of his past employment nor his future intentions seem to have been entirely accurate (perhaps the press mixed him up with Schwarz, who also moved back to England around the same time). Other than these contemporary rumours, no evidence survives to explain Faulkner’s abrupt move. In fact, nothing at all is known about Faulkner’s internal life during his cricket career. Only his statistical brilliance survives. If he was a mystery to many contemporaries, his motivation is doubly lost to historians. It is only many years later that we get a sense of who Faulkner was as an individual, but by those close to him called him a deeply troubled man. We can only guess whether these demons pursued him at the height of his career. Rather than becoming a London stockbroker, Faulkner moved to Nottingham, where he was employed by Sir Julien Cahn, a cricket-loving and very wealthy owner of a furniture business who liked good players on his books. But Faulkner’s career at the top level was almost over, apart from one last extended taste of international cricket. By the time Abe Bailey’s long-planned Triangular Tournament took place in England in 1912, South Africa were a spent force. They lost five out of six Tests, their only draw being a rain-affected match against Australia in which they held the upper hand. Faulkner made himself available for what seemed to be one last time and scored 194 runs at just 19.40. Most of those came in an unbeaten 122 against Australia in the opening match. In six innings against England, he scored just 46 runs; Sydney Barnes took his wicket five times. He was not alone among the South Africans in finding Barnes all but playable. He later told Peebles of the one time that summer he felt he had seen Barnes off; he batted for an hour, scoring just six runs, but thought he had got his eye in, and seen every one of Barnes’ variations. At that point, Barnes delivered an apparent long-hop which Faulkner tried to hit to the boundary, only to find that it was a disguised faster delivery which bowled him. Faulkner also took 17 wickets at 26.70, which included his best Test figures of seven for 84 against England. In a wet summer, maybe more might have been expected. But he was a success overall. In all first-class matches in 1912, he scored 1,206 runs and took 163 wickets. Faulkner portrayed on a 1912 cigarette card (Image: New York Public Library) He did not return to South Africa for the 1913–14 series against England, and his Test career appeared to be over. He played a handful of first-class matches in England, usually with great success, and his cricket seemed to be winding down, even though he was still in his early thirties. Nevertheless, for various teams around Nottingham — including Cahn’s Eleven — in the 1914 season, he scored 2,868 runs at an average just under 82 and took 218 wickets. He scored two double centuries and twice took all ten wickets in an innings. By then, his marriage was already in trouble and by 1915, he left his wife. Florence Faulkner began a petition that year for the “restitution of conjugal rights” but Faulkner ignored it. In later years, Peebles suggested that “with his good looks he had, when young, had numerous affairs.” Perhaps that explains the breakdown of his marriage. In 1914, at the outbreak of the First World War, Faulkner was commissioned in the Worcestershire Regiment as a second lieutenant but later transferred to the Royal Field Artillery. He fought on the Western Front and later in the Middle East, Macedonia and finally Palestine. At times, he was involved in horrific actions and faced dreadful conditions. In addition, he contracted malaria in 1916 or 1917 which affected him for the rest of his life. By the end of the war, he had been promoted to the rank of major and was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and Order of the Nile (fourth class) for his war service, a full account of which is given by Gavin Mortimer in Fields of Glory. When the war ended, Faulkner was slightly directionless, and perhaps marked, like many survivors, by physical and mental scars from his war service. In 1919, his wife was granted an uncontested divorce. He tried teaching for a time. From 1920 until 1925, he worked as an assistant master at St Piran’s Preparatory School in Maidenhead, run by the headmaster Vernon Seymour Bryant. One of Faulkner’s pupils there was the future England captain Freddie Brown, who remembered him as a “kind and patient” coach. Faulkner in 1920 (Image: Wikipedia) During his time at the school, he had one last moment of cricketing glory. In the 1921 season, an Australian team crushed England 3–0 (in the process completing an unprecedented eight successive Test victories) and as the end of the tour approached, remained undefeated in all matches. They hoped to extend this unbeaten record to the end of the season, something never previously achieved by an overseas team. But the former England captain Archie MacLaren had been insisting all summer that the Australians were not invincible and that he could select a side to beat them. He was given his chance in a match at Eastbourne, and he chose Faulkner in his side. Faulkner had last played first-class cricket in 1920, and was badly out of practice. MacLaren’s “England XI” began poorly, being bowled out for 43, but restricted the Australians to 174 in their reply; Faulkner took four wickets. When the England XI batted again, Faulkner scored 153 in three-and-a-half hours — talking to himself throughout as a form of self-coaching, to the bemusement of the Australian wicket-keeper — and then took two more wickets as MacLaren’s side won by 28 runs. It was a famous win, long-celebrated, and Faulkner was the hero. Faulkner played just one more first-class match, when he received an emergency call-up from the touring South African team of 1924. The toothlessness of their bowling attack had already prompted the selection of a bowler from the Bradford League, and the 42-year-old Faulkner was selected for the second Test match. Playing international cricket for the first time in twelve years, he did not disgrace himself with innings of 25 and 12, but his bowling was expensive and he could not prevent South Africa losing their second successive Test by an innings. Faulkner batting against England in the Lord’s Test match of 1924, his final first-class game (Image: Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News, 5 July 1924) Apart from his outstanding Test record, Faulkner left first-class cricket with 6,366 runs at 36.58 and 449 wickets at 17.42. Peebles wrote in 1977 — although admitting he was possibly biased by his close relationship with Faulkner — that he was perhaps the best all-rounder in cricket history, maybe even better than Sobers. A few descriptions survive of the type of player Faulkner was. As a batter, he was effective rather than stylish, with a good defence and many scoring shots. He was particularly effective at the cut and hook owing to his experience on matting wickets, and was strong off the back foot. He had an open, two-eyed stance, and was a powerful hitter around the wicket. Effective but unorthodox seems a fair description. He was also a brilliant fielder in any position. According to Peebles, Faulkner the bowler had “a beautiful wheeling action at a sharpish pace” and was very accurate for a wrist-spinner. Another writer, Jeremy Malies in Great Characters from Cricket’s Golden Age, was less convinced of the beauty: “For such a natural athlete his run-up was surprisingly craggy and ungainly. It included several stutters and he would arrive at the wicket with elbows pumping madly, in the manner of Bob Willis.” As well as the googly, Faulkner bowled an occasional fast yorker without any alteration in his action, aimed at leg-stump. For what remained of his life, Faulkner’s skills were mainly seen in a different capacity. In the spring of 1925, he resigned as a teacher — a job to which he had never taken — to open a coaching school in Richmond, London. What made it unique was its location in a garage, making it the world’s first indoor cricket school: it had one matting pitch on which to practise. It was cramped and not always pleasant; the fuse box was above the bowlers’ heads so that the lights went out on one occasion when a bowler’s variation went wrong and struck it. Among the directors of the Faulkner School of Cricket were Pelham Warner and H. D. G. Leveson-Gower. Peebles recalled how Faulkner also became the cricket correspondent of the Westminster Gazette in order to provide more money for his school. Before long, he had established himself as one of the world’s best coaches. That first summer, he spotted Peebles and saw so much potential in his bowling — which reminded him of Sydney Barnes, who had terrorised the South Africans (and Faulkner in particular) in 1912 — that he employed him as his secretary from January 1926 to allow him time to practise. It was the start of a coaching relationship that was ultimately unfulfilled and perhaps did more harm than good to both men. Ian Peebles in 1931 (Image: Spinner’s Yarn (1977) by Ian Peebles) In 1926, the school moved to larger premises in Walham Green. Six matting pitches, each of which behaved differently, were installed. Many future international cricketers came to him for coaching, including Douglas Jardine, Duleepsinhji, Freddie Brown, Walter Robins and Doug Wright. Faulkner also employed assistants, for a time including Bob Wyatt, who recalled being worked very hard for nine-and-a-half hours of bowling daily. Faulkner worked equally hard, driven by worries over money that was always tight; when his right arm became tired from bowling, he would switch to his left. Such was his accuracy that he could repeat deliveries to allow a batter to focus on weaknesses. He relied on a coaching system of his own devising, which proved very effective. In 1926, he published a book — Cricket: Can it be Taught? — of which David Frith has said it was “a model instructional book, perhaps even a masterpiece of its kind, with scores of thought-provoking paragraphs, penetrative statements on technique and conduct and numerous pictures.” Faulkner charged 10 shillings per lesson for 20 minutes batting and 40 minutes bowling, but refused to increase the fees even when money was tight. He often wondered about providing food to generate more income, but never did; he also refused to open a bar — such as many sporting clubs offered — as he remained a teetotaller. But this attitude meant that the School was always struggling for funds. It is from this late stage of his life that the most detail survives of the kind of person Faulkner was. Peebles described his mentor in this period: “Aubrey Faulkner was an enigmatical character. In his late 40s, he was slightly overweight, but had a strong, well-knit figure, and was a handsome man, dark-haired and brown-eyed. Besides being a teetotaller he was a non-smoker, but was lusty and highly sexed.” But his family background “had left its mark, in that he was inclined to be touchy and defensive and, in the four years that I knew him, he had no close friends … When in good heart he was splendid company, enthralling us with his tales of the great and famous, and making us laugh with his considerable humour. With an observant eye, a retentive memory, and a shrewd sense of cricket and cricketers, he had an inexhaustible fund of memories and stories of cricketing men and affairs.” But as Bassano pointed out: “Lurking below the surface were demons which caused moods of deep depression, exacerbated by his attacks of malaria.” Sir Home Gordon wrote about him in Background of Cricket (1939). He called him “one of the finest cricketers ever seen anywhere” but “he was always a moody man, though pleasant to be with.” The two sat together during Faulkner’s Test comeback in 1924 — he would not sit in the dressing room — and according to Gordon, “it was obvious then, not only that he would never play again, but that his own retrospective of cricket was mysteriously and unjustifiably gloomy … In the era of his glory, he had confided that he felt inward blackness that suggested the futility of his own magnificent prowess.” Had Faulkner always been this way? Did these “demons” affect him during his playing career? Were they a result of those mysterious early years, a response to the trauma of war, or an effect of malaria? As usual in these cases, the answers will never be known. Faulkner and Peebles later fell out. Peebles naturally bowled a fast leg-break, as Sydney Barnes had once done. Faulkner’s recognition of the rarity of Peebles’ ability, combined with an obsessive desire to produce a second Barnes, meant that both men became frustrated when Peebles lost the ability to bowl in that style in outdoor matches. Instead, he found success when he switched to a more orthodox style of leg-break and googly bowling. His heavy workload when employed by Faulkner also permanently affected Peebles’ shoulder, which later hampered his Test career after a brilliant beginning. Eventually, Peebles said, they “quarrelled seriously and parted coolly, after which I was not to see him again until a couple of years later.” That was during the 1930 Test series, when Peebles was making his England debut, and they talked fondly of old times. Late in life, after this falling out, Faulkner remarried. When Peebles first knew him, he had been romantically interested in a cousin, who did not return the affections. But in 1928, he married Alice Butcher (sometimes inaccurately called Vera Alice in accounts of Faulkner’s life), his 21-year-old former secretary. On 10 September 1930, having not returned home overnight, Faulkner killed himself at the age of 48. He was found that morning by his secretary, a man called Mackenzie, in a small room used for treating bats, with his mouth over the jet of a gas radiator; the cause of death was the inhalation of carbon monoxide. He had left a note: “Dear Mackenzie, I am off to another sphere via the small bat-drying room. Better call in a policeman to do the investigating.” His wife told the inquest that Faulkner was healthy until 1929, when he “had an illness due to overwork”. Two operations at the end of that year had furthered his depression; she told the coroner that he was “very temperamental” and had threatened to gas himself at least once before. Other witnesses at the inquest said that he used to have “fits of depression”. The Nottinghamshire cricketer Tom Reddick, who assisted Faulkner for a time, later wrote that he believed Faulkner was disappointed at the collapse of some promised financial assistance for his school, but did not know why he had killed himself. No such claims were made at the inquest. Faulkner left an estate worth just under £274. His widow told Peebles, when he visited her after hearing the shocking news about Faulkner’s suicide, that “when he seemed to lose heart and all taste for life … he had one abiding interest. It was to look in the morning paper to see how many wickets I, his discovery and protégé, had taken the previous day. Reminded of his interest in me, I was keenly aware of what I owed to him. At least I was grateful for our chance meeting in Manchester.” Peebles perhaps knew Faulkner better than anyone, but even he was left baffled. And at this distance — particularly without the benefit of an in-depth biography, or detailed reminiscences from those who played alongside him — Faulkner will remain a mystery that will never quite be untangled. The glorious feats of his best years somehow seem disconnected from those final dark days. Now, it will never be known for certain whether the link was that possibly troubled upbringing, the trauma of his experiences in two wars, or something else entirely.


--- [List of Eastern Province representative cricketers] ---
This is a list of all cricketers who have played first-class, List A or Twenty20 cricket for Eastern Province cricket team in South Africa. Seasons given are first and last seasons; the player did not necessarily play in all the intervening seasons.


