=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[41 Facts About Arya Stark - FactSnippet]
6. Arya Stark is a powerful skinchanger, developing purely on her own instinct the ability to telepathically control her direwolf Nymeria when sleeping, as well as a psychic bond with a street tomcat in Braavos.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-arya-stark.html

[Arya Stark - Wikipedia]
She is also a powerful skinchanger, developing purely on her own instinct the ability to telepathically control her direwolf Nymeria when sleeping (even from a different continent), as well as forming a psychic bond with a street tomcat in Braavos. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arya_Stark

['Game of Thrones' Q&A: Maisie Williams on Arya's New Mission]
Apr 20, 2015 · After taking the first week of “Game of Thrones” off, Arya Stark landed in Braavos to commence her training with Jaqen H’ghar and the Faceless Men. [Episode 2 Recap: Cobragrams and Faceless Men] Arya, played by Maisie Williams, has been in the care, voluntarily and otherwise, of one person or another since the series began.
URL: https://archive.nytimes.com/artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/20/game-of-thrones-arya-maisie-williams-interview-braavos-black-white/

[Arya Stark's 9 Lives [Spoilers Extended] : r/asoiaf - Reddit]
Traveling to, and living in, Braavos Arguably, you could combine some of these -- the BwB phase could be lumped together with the Hound in a general "Riverlands" section, for instance. Alternatively, you could divide them -- the Harrenhal phase could be split into Lannister and Bolton sub-phases, and the Braavos portion could also be subdivided.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/r7mslg/arya_starks_9_lives_spoilers_extended/

[The Direwolves of Winterfell: Part 3, Nymeria and Arya's Bond (spoilers ...]
The only other explanation would be that Arya herself unwittingly exercised some small amount of telepathic communication with this wolf. The ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/exfzk0/the_direwolves_of_winterfell_part_3_nymeria_and/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [41 Facts About Arya Stark - FactSnippet] ---
Arya Stark is a prominent point-of-view character in the novels with the third most viewpoint chapters, and is the only viewpoint character to have appeared in every published book of the series. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,718 | Arya Stark is a prominent point-of-view character in the novels with the third most viewpoint chapters, and is the only viewpoint character to have appeared in every published book of the series. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,718 | Arya Stark is tomboyish, headstrong, feisty, independent, disdains traditional female pursuits, and is often mistaken for a boy. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,719 | Arya Stark wields a castle-forged steel smallsword named "Needle" forged by Mikken the blacksmith of Winterfell, as a parting gift from her half-brother Jon Snow, and is trained in the Braavosi style of sword fighting by Syrio Forel. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,720 | Arya Stark has five siblings: an older brother Robb, an older sister Sansa, two younger brothers Bran and Rickon, and an older illegitimate half-brother, Jon Snow. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,721 | In contrast to her older sister Sansa, who is more praised for favoring activities traditionally befitting a noblewoman, Arya Stark shows no interest in the ladylike dancing, singing and sewing, and revels in outdoor activities and exploring, and is an excellent horserider. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,722 | Arya Stark is a powerful skinchanger, developing purely on her own instinct the ability to telepathically control her direwolf Nymeria when sleeping, as well as a psychic bond with a street tomcat in Braavos. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,723 | Arya Stark adopts one of the direwolf cubs that her brothers Robb and Jon discovered in the wild, and names her "Nymeria" after a legendary Rhoynish warrior queen. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,724 | Arya Stark defends Mycah from Joffrey's torments and her direwolf Nymeria helps Arya Stark fight off Joffrey, wounding his arm in the process. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,725 | Arya Stark continues to dream through the eyes of her direwolf Nymeria, but speaks of it to no one. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,727 | Arya Stark seduces Rafford and lures him to her own room, before slicing his femoral artery, rendering him unable to walk. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,728 | Arya Stark is portrayed by English actress Maisie Williams in the television adaption of the book series, this being Williams' first role as an actress. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,729 | Arya Stark accompanies her father Ned and her sister Sansa to King's Landing. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,730 | Ned arranges for Arya to have sword lessons with the Braavosi Syrio Forel, who later defends her from Ser Meryn Trant after Joffrey ascends to the throne and kills the Stark household. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,731 | Arya Stark flees the Red Keep, accidentally killing a stable boy in her escape, hiding out as a beggar in the streets of King's Landing. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,732 | Yoren prevents Arya Stark from witnessing Ned's execution and has her pose as a boy, "Arry", to avoid detection as she joins Yoren's recruits traveling north to Castle Black. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,733 | The recruits are taken to Harrenhal, where Tywin Lannister recognises Arya Stark is a girl instead of a boy and takes her as his cupbearer. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,734 | The Hound is brought before the Brotherhood's leader, Ser Beric Dondarrion, and after Arya Stark accuses him of Mycah's murder Beric sentences him to trial by combat. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,736 | Arya Stark is further enraged when the Brotherhood sells Gendry to Melisandre. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,737 | Arya Stark manages to hide from Brienne in the confusion, and after Brienne leaves, Arya Stark takes the Hound's silver, leaving him to die. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,738 | Arya Stark is tasked to assassinate an actress named Lady Crane but seeing Lady Crane is a decent person, Arya has a change of heart at the last minute and warns Lady Crane of the attempt on her life. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,741 | Arya Stark arranges for passage out of Braavos but is stabbed by the Waif and barely escapes. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,742 | Arya Stark leads the Waif to her quarters underneath Braavos and extinguishes the candle in the room, using her experience fighting blind to give her the upper hand and kill the Waif. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,743 | Arya Stark kills Lord Walder Frey's sons, Black Walder Rivers and Lothar Frey, before cooking them in a pie that she serves to Walder Frey. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,744 | Bran reveals his knowledge of Arya Stark's kill list through greenseeing and presents her with a Valyrian steel dagger, which had been given to him by Littlefinger. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,745 | Outraged, Arya Stark confronts Sansa and is unconvinced by her explanation that she did so to try and save Ned's life. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,746 | Arya Stark asks Gendry, who is forging dragonglass into weapons, to make her a special dragonglass staff. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,747 | When Gendry gives it to Arya Stark, he tells her he is the bastard son of Robert Baratheon. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,748 | Later that night, Arya Stark hears the signal alerting her that the White Walkers' army has arrived. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,749 | Sansa and Arya Stark tell Jon they don't trust Daenerys, but Jon defends her. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,750 | The Hound seeks out his brother, the Mountain, in his quest for revenge against his brother but urges Arya Stark to leave and give up her own quest for revenge to avoid a life consumed by it. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,751 | Arya Stark tries and fails to save the smallfolk as Daenerys burns the city. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,752 | Weeks later, Arya Stark joins the other lords and ladies of Westeros in a council to decide who shall lead the Seven Kingdoms. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,753 | Arya Stark reveals that she is leaving Westeros to see what lies west of the continent. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,754 | Arya Stark embarks on her voyage aboard a Stark ship and reflects on her family. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,755 | Arya Stark killing the Night King was nominated for the 2020 BAFTA TV Awards under the "Must-see moment" category. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,756 | Arya Stark is among the most popular characters in either version of the series. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,757 | Arya Stark appears as a playable character in the 2022 platform fighting game MultiVersus, with Maisie Williams vocally reprising her role. | FactSnippet No. 2,281,758 |


--- [Arya Stark - Wikipedia] ---
Arya Stark is a fictional character in American author George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire epic fantasy novel series and its HBO television adaptation Game of Thrones, where she was portrayed by English actress Maisie Williams. She is a prominent point-of-view character in the novels with the third most viewpoint chapters (behind Tyrion Lannister and Jon Snow) and is the only character to have a viewpoint chapter in every published book of the series, with her chapters having various alternative titles such as "Cat of the Canals", "The Blind Girl", "The Ugly Little Girl" and "Mercy" from the fourth book onwards.
Introduced in 1996's A Game of Thrones, Arya is the third child and youngest daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and his wife Lady Catelyn Stark. She is tomboyish, headstrong, feisty, independent, disdains traditional female pursuits, and is often mistaken for a boy.  She wields a castle-forged steel smallsword named "Needle" forged by Mikken, the blacksmith of Winterfell, as a parting gift from her half-brother Jon Snow, and is trained in the Braavosi style of sword fighting by Syrio Forel.
Arya is among the most popular characters in the ASOIAF books, and Maisie Williams' performance in the HBO adaptation received critical acclaim. In 2016 and 2019, Williams was twice nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. She and the rest of the cast were nominated for Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017.




--- ['Game of Thrones' Q&A: Maisie Williams on Arya's New Mission] ---
This post contains spoilers about Sunday’s episode, “The House of Black and White.” After taking the first week of “Game of Thrones” off, Arya Stark landed in Braavos to commence her training with Jaqen H’ghar and the Faceless Men. [Episode 2 Recap: Cobragrams and Faceless Men] Arya, played by Maisie Williams, has been in the care, voluntarily and otherwise, of one person or another since the series began. She traveled from her home, Winterfell, with her father to King’s Landing, only to see him beheaded, after which she spent time captive to various groups, including the Mountain’s men — who lent her to an unsuspecting Tywin Lannister as a “cupholder” — and the Brotherhood Without Banners. For the past season-plus, she was paired with Rory McCann’s Sandor “The Hound” Clegane in one of the program’s more appealing duos, until she left him for dead in last year’s finale. Season 5 brings new surroundings — Ms. Williams moved from shooting in Belfast to shooting in Croatia — as well as Arya’s first significant wardrobe upgrade since the show’s first season. “The new season was wonderful because my story line was so different,” Ms. Williams said. “But it was still like, ‘Aw, I don’t get to be with Rory.’ ” Ms. Williams recently discussed Arya’s plans in Braavos and teased an answer to why she really left the Hound. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. On Sunday Arya arrived at the House of Black and White. What does that mean to her? I don’t think she knows at the start. She knows that she possibly has one person here who she’s met before but she isn’t 100 percent sure he’s even there. She’s just looking for someone new and someone who will take her under their wing and show her happiness, and that you don’t need to avenge your family to feel satisfied. She can become someone new for a little while. She does start out quite angry though. It won’t change overnight. She’s come a long way to be rejected from the only place she thought would help her. There is a certain amount of frustration when she gets there and he turns her away. She doesn’t have many options, of course, but why do you think this was where she went? Because nothing else was really working. She tried to get home and then got captured. She tried to find her family and they got slaughtered. She tried to go and be sold to her auntie and she passed away. She’s been told this is what you should do, and that is what you should do, and now she’s just like, I’ll do something for me. This place has always intrigued me. I was given this coin for a reason. I’ll go and see what it’s all about. She found Jaqen very interesting, but I don’t think she every really believes that this place Braavos would ever be beneficial to her, until she gets there and meets these wonderful people and realizes she can’t be that mean-spirited little girl, and can’t be bratty and actually has to shut up and listen a little bit in order to go further and be a better person. And a better killer. Arya and the Hound had a fun chemistry together. Did you and Rory McCann talk about how to make that relationship work? Or did it happen organically? I think with Rory, our relationship was quite similar anyway. I was a bit annoying and he was a bit like “Shh.” He’s trying to remember his lines and I’m like [annoying voice] “Did you get any pudding? Did you like it?” And then “Shh.” But we had loads of fun. Even the hardest emotional scenes — once we left the set, that got left behind. I remember once after a really, really tough scene that we had together, we went back to the hotel to get changed. And I came out and there was a piano in the hallway, and he was playing the piano and singing. Three seconds ago we were nearly crying and now we’re just having fun. Were you sad to leave that behind? I was. We spent the end of Season 3 together and the whole of Season 4 together, and “Game of Thrones” is such a massive part of my life. So I spent a long time with a really good friend. I think Arya leaving the Hound for dead at the end of Season 4 was something that lots of people disagreed with. And in this new season you might find out a little bit why she did it. Maybe? It’s nice, because everyone had that opinion on the Internet and you never really get to express yours. But I’ve been given that opportunity onscreen. Do you think Arya was inspired to set out on her own by seeing Brienne, this female warrior, take out the Hound? Definitely. And going into this new training process, her recent experiences have been with the Hound, who talks about the quickest way to kill a man, and with Brienne, who is biting people. It’s very vicious, so that’s the mentality she has going into this. She’s like, “I want to be like those guys. I want to go to the next level. I’m ready.” And [the Faceless Men] are like, “You’re so not.” She thought she was learning the way to be the most effective killer and she realizes there’s so much more to it than that. Finally Arya’s being put in her place. Usually she’s the one who’s like “Me me me,” and finally someone says no and means it, and it really hits her hard. Like “Oh, I don’t know everything…”


--- [Arya Stark's 9 Lives [Spoilers Extended] : r/asoiaf - Reddit] ---
Arya Stark's 9 Lives [Spoilers Extended] Arya's character has a loose association with cats -- she catches cats King's Landing; in at a couple of key points in Braavos, she wargs into a cat to see through its eyes; and, of course, one of her aliases is "Cat of the Canals." It occurs to me that, like a cat is said to have, she also has "nine lives" (at least) in the story. (I am not the first to have this idea.) She's had (by my count) nine aliases so far in the story -- Arry, Weasel, Nan, Squab, Salty, Cat, Beth the Blind Girl, the Ugly Little Girl, and Mercy. But some of these are such small, transient phases it seems like a stretch to call them a "life" -- Salty, for example, is quite brief, and the Ugly Little Girl doesn't even get a name. Maybe it's more accurate to go by the major phases of her story so far, which I'd peg at about six: - Before Ned dies - On the road with Yoren - In Harrenhal - With the BwB - With the Hound - Traveling to, and living in, Braavos Arguably, you could combine some of these -- the BwB phase could be lumped together with the Hound in a general "Riverlands" section, for instance. Alternatively, you could divide them -- the Harrenhal phase could be split into Lannister and Bolton sub-phases, and the Braavos portion could also be subdivided. Regardless of the actual number of lives she's had so far (it doesn't need to add to exactly nine) it is probably safe to assume we will be getting more of them at some point when (if) we get more books. What do you think is coming next? I'm partial to the idea that she will reunite with Lady Stoneheart, die in some mishap, and that Stoneheart will sacrifice herself to resurrect her, the way Stoneheart was herself resurrected by Beric. (I have come to prefer this version over the theory that she kills Stoneheart directly, as a "gift of mercy.") This could be the turning point for Arya that ultimately pushes her off the path of vengeance and toward a path more focused on restoring order and defeating the Others. (I would find it much more persuasive than, say, a brief pep talk from the Hound suddenly convincing her to stop with the blood-lust already.) I also think it's entirely possible that at the end of the series she sails off to find out what's west of Westeros, as in the show -- she's basically on the move the entire time we see her, and it's hard to imagine her ever settling down in one place. Seeing her as a new Nymeria or Elissa Farman is easier. All of that said, there are a lot of pages to fill between Braavos and "what's west of Westeros." I would love to see her character soon break free from Braavos (even though George has said he could do a whole book on her adventures there... please don't, George) and visit some new place -- like Skaagos or Eastwatch. A meeting at the Wall between fArya and Arya could be a real catalyst. But one of the important themes in Arya's story is that she never seems to get where she wants to go, so it's very tough to predict where we will see her next. There's no reason to think she couldn't end up some place a bit more random. Tarth is high on my list of places I would love to see, and all it would take is one of the Narrow Sea's terrible storms to blow her south to its shores. I think a meeting between Arya and the Evenstar of Tarth -- who also let his daughter train with a sword -- would be a really interesting one. It would also be all kinds of ironic for Brienne to be wandering to and fro looking for Catelyn's daughters only to have one of them show up at her own home! ... Even if that is probably just my wishful thinking.


--- [The Direwolves of Winterfell: Part 3, Nymeria and Arya's Bond (spoilers ...] ---
The Direwolves of Winterfell: Part 3, Nymeria and Arya’s Bond (spoilers Extended) This is part 3 in a multi-part series about direwolves. The other posts in the series are here: Part 1: Lady and Sansa, Part 2: Grey Wind and Robb, Part 4: https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/ezcrm3/the_direwolves_of_winterfell_part_4_summer_and/ This can also be viewed on my blog, : Nymeria and Arya, Recall this SSM. Q: Are all the Stark children wargs/skin changers with their wolves? GRRM: To a greater or lesser degree, yes, but the amount of control varies widely. Q: Yes, I know that Lady is dead, but assuming they were all alive and all the children as well, would all the wolves have bonded to the kids as Bran and Summer did? GRRM: Bran and Summer are somewhat of a special case. A note about the order of this series: I am doing this analysis in order of what I think is the increasing magical power of the direwolves. We have 4 wolves with eyes of molten gold, so I’ll be focusing on them first and then finishing with our green-eyed and finally our red-eyed direwolf. The order chosen within the group of the first four wolves was chosen in order of the increasing magical strength of their Stark children. Arya, I think is stronger in her magic than Sansa and Robb, for a variety of reasons. Bran, of course seems to be extremely strong. While it’s possible that Arya is equal to him in magical potential, the general consensus is that Bran is exceptional, so we’ll give him the edge, and cover him in part 4. A Game of Thrones - Nymeria with then Cut-off from Arya Several themes from our prior volumes continue here with Nymeria and her bond to Arya, including: - Bad things happening when they’re separated - The wolves mirroring their children’s personality - Shadowing/protecting - Belonging to the pack / hunting - Being affectionate when they’re together - Obedience / disobedience These are all in evidence for the pair while together in AGoT, where they spend such a short time together before being separated. In later volumes, we see that even though they are separated, the bond is still strong between them. We start in Arya I where Nymeria had been tied up while Arya was with Princess Myrcella. Immediately we see their affection for each other and their closeness, save when they are forced to be separated as Cat has done here. Mirroring of their personalities is evident even in the wolf’s name, Nymeria, a figure of female empowerment and independence. The scene closes Nymeria shadowing Arya, checking off each of the themes listed above save one which comes later in the chapter. Nymeria's bond with Arya developed quickly indeed. A Game of Thrones - Arya I Nymeria was waiting for her in the guardroom at the base of the stairs. She bounded to her feet as soon as she caught sight of Arya. Arya grinned. The wolf pup loved her, even if no one else did. They went everywhere together, and Nymeria slept in her room, at the foot of her bed. If Mother had not forbidden it, Arya would gladly have taken the wolf with her to needlework. Let Septa Mordane complain about her stitches then. Nymeria nipped eagerly at her hand as Arya untied her. She had yellow eyes. When they caught the sunlight, they gleamed like two golden coins. Arya had named her after the warrior queen of the Rhoyne, who had led her people across the narrow sea. That had been a great scandal too. Sansa, of course, had named her pup “Lady.” Arya made a face and hugged the wolfling tight. Nymeria licked her ear, and she giggled. By now Septa Mordane would certainly have sent word to her lady mother. If she went to her room, they would find her. Arya did not care to be found. She had a better notion. The boys were at practice in the yard. She wanted to see Robb put gallant Prince Joffrey flat on his back. “Come,” she whispered to Nymeria. She got up and ran, the wolf coming hard at her heels. Next, they encounter Ghost and Jon, and we see pack interaction. Nymeria is wary of the larger Ghost, but they seem to get along. Arya and Jon in turn are of one mind about the unfairness of being outcast. The theme of the call of the pack is evident where Nymeria begins to follow Ghost and / or Jon before realizing that she and Arya are not going along with them. The pack bond/instinct is strong in these wolves. They arrived, flushed and breathless, to find Jon seated on the sill, one leg drawn up languidly to his chin. He was watching the action, so absorbed that he seemed unaware of her approach until his white wolf moved to meet them. Nymeria stalked closer on wary feet. Ghost, already larger than his litter mates, smelled her, gave her ear a careful nip, and settled back down. […] "Nothing is fair," Jon said. He messed up her hair again and walked away from her, Ghost moving silently beside him. Nymeria started to follow too, then stopped and came back when she saw that Arya was not coming. Reluctantly she turned in the other direction. - A Game of Thrones - Arya I The pair encounter their brothers again when Ghost and Jon visit to make their farewells and to give Needle to Arya. Nymeria seems happy to see Ghost this time, mirroring Arya and Jon’s relationship. Nymeria is also fetching specific items for Arya to pack. Is this an example of them sharing one mind in a near warging? This type of cooperation is reminiscent of Grey Wind and Robb much later in the story. At the end Arya commands Nymeria to guard, and she obeys without issue. The tension between obedience and independence is important to Nymeria’s story. IMHO she does obey but is more independent and questions authority as a mirroring to Arya’s personality. A Game of Thrones - Jon II Arya was in her room, packing a polished ironwood chest that was bigger than she was. Nymeria was helping. Arya would only have to point, and the wolf would bound across the room, snatch up some wisp of silk in her jaws, and fetch it back. But when she smelled Ghost, she sat down on her haunches and yelped at them. […] “I don’t think she’d like Nymeria helping, either.” The she-wolf regarded him silently with her dark golden eyes. “It’s just as well. I have something for you to take with you, and it has to be packed very carefully.” […] Wary but excited, Arya checked the hall. “Nymeria, here. Guard.” She left the wolf out there to warn of intruders and closed the door. By then Jon had pulled off the rags he’d wrapped it in. He held it out to her. Arya’s eyes went wide. Dark eyes, like his. “A sword,” she said in a small, hushed breath. – A Game of Thrones – Jon II We don’t get another Arya POV until they arrive in King’s Landing, so now Sansa takes up the Nymeria’s tale. This eventful chapter draws a stark contract between the pairs of sisters as we already discussed in part I. We see the opposite side of the obedience independence con here. As Arya brushes her, Nymeria struggles, mirroring Arya’s independent streak. She is also mirroring Arya’s own mood who doesn’t seem to enjoy the process either. We also see snipes of how close the pair are in Arya’s dialogue. A Game of Thrones – Sansa I She found Arya on the banks of the Trident, trying to hold Nymeria still while she brushed dried mud from her fur. The direwolf was not enjoying the process. Arya was wearing the same riding leathers she had worn yesterday and the day before. […] Arya shrugged. “Hold still,” she snapped at Nymeria, “I’m not hurting you.” Then to Sansa she said, “When we were crossing the Neck, I counted thirty-six flowers I never saw before, and Mycah showed me a lizard-lion.” […] Arya was still going on, brushing out Nymeria’s tangles and chattering about things she’d seen on the trek south. “Last week we found this haunted watchtower, and the day before we chased a herd of wild horses. You should have seen them run when they caught a scent of Nymeria.” The wolf wriggled in her grasp and Arya scolded her. “Stop that, I have to do the other side, you’re all muddy.” […] Arya shrugged. “I didn’t go far. Anyway, Nymeria was with me the whole time. I don’t always go off, either. Sometimes it’s fun just to ride along with the wagons and talk to people.” […] Arya ignored her. She gave a hard yank with the brush. Nymeria growled and spun away, affronted. “Come back here!” “There’s going to be lemon cakes and tea,” Sansa went on, all adult and reasonable. Lady brushed against her leg. Sansa scratched her ears the way she liked, and Lady sat beside her on her haunches, watching Arya chase Nymeria. “Why would you want to ride a smelly old horse and get all sore and sweaty when you could recline on feather pillows and eat cakes with the queen?” “I don’t like the queen,” Arya said casually. Sansa sucked in her breath, shocked that even Arya would say such a thing, but her sister prattled on, heedless. “She won’t even let me bring Nymeria.” She thrust the brush under her belt and stalked her wolf. Nymeria watched her approach warily. “A royal wheelhouse is no place for a wolf,” Sansa said. “And Princess Myrcella is afraid of them, you know that.” “Myrcella is a little baby.” Arya grabbed Nymeria around her neck, but the moment she pulled out the brush again the direwolf wriggled free and bounded off. Frustrated, Arya threw down the brush. “Bad wolf!” she shouted. […] She turned to walk off, but Arya shouted after her, “They won’t let you bring Lady either.” She was gone before Sansa could think of a reply, chasing Nymeria along the river. This cute interaction represents the last time Arya and Sansa get along so far in the story. Unfortunately, our next scene is where Joffrey attacks Arya and Mycah. Note that Arya already mentioned him earlier, as did Sansa with her mention of Arya’s bruises. He was clearly a close friend by this point. The blame in this encounter is very important, as it determines the future of both wolves and sets the mood for the girls’ interactions for the remainder of this volume. Let’s be clear: Joffrey starts it, attacks Mycah, and sadistically tortures/threatens him. Then Arya hits him with a stick to protect her friend, warranted. She strikes him again as Mycah escapes, also warranted to enable the escape. Then Sansa says that Arya threw a rock at him, which would be taking it too far, but WE DON’T ACTUALLY KNOW IF ARYA WAS AIMING AT JOFFREY. We only get Sansa’s opinion that Arya missed and hit the horse. She may have been trying to hit the horse, I think this is quite plausible, as the author makes sure to mention it going toward Mycah in the same sentence. Joffrey “slashes” at her with his sword, a completely shocking act. Arya is truly frightened and retreats, but ends between Joffrey and a tree. Then and only then does Nymeria act, judiciously, grabbing at Joffrey’s arm, not his throat (which might be warranted). She then immediately obeys Arya when called off. All in all, Nymeria is nothing short of a hero here. Arya again does the right thing, deescalating by removing “Lion’s Tooth” from the equation. Sansa slid off her mare, but she was too slow. Arya swung with both hands. There was a loud crack as the wood split against the back of the prince’s head, and then everything happened at once before Sansa’s horrified eyes. Joffrey staggered and whirled around, roaring curses. Mycah ran for the trees as fast as his legs would take him. Arya swung at the prince again, but this time Joffrey caught the blow on Lion’s Tooth and sent her broken stick flying from her hands. The back of his head was all bloody and his eyes were on fire. Sansa was shrieking, “No, no, stop it, stop it, both of you, you’re spoiling it,” but no one was listening. Arya scooped up a rock and hurled it at Joffrey’s head. She hit his horse instead, and the blood bay reared and went galloping off after Mycah. “Stop it, don’t, stop it!” Sansa screamed. Joffrey slashed at Arya with his sword, screaming obscenities, terrible words, filthy words. Arya darted back, frightened now, but Joffrey followed, hounding her toward the woods, backing her up against a tree. Sansa didn’t know what to do. She watched helplessly, almost blind from her tears. Then a grey blur flashed past her, and suddenly Nymeria was there, leaping, jaws closing around Joffrey’s sword arm. The steel fell from his fingers as the wolf knocked him off his feet, and they rolled in the grass, the wolf snarling and ripping at him, the prince shrieking in pain. “Get it off,” he screamed. “Get it off!” Arya’s voice cracked like a whip. “Nymeria!” The direwolf let go of Joffrey and moved to Arya’s side. The prince lay in the grass, whimpering, cradling his mangled arm. His shirt was soaked in blood. Arya said, “She didn’t hurt you … much.” She picked up Lion’s Tooth where it had fallen, and stood over him, holding the sword with both hands. “You leave him alone!” Sansa screamed at her sister. Arya whirled and heaved the sword into the air, putting her whole body into the throw. The blue steel flashed in the sun as the sword spun out over the river. It hit the water and vanished with a splash. Joffrey moaned. Arya ran off to her horse, Nymeria loping at her heels. – A Game of Thrones – Sansa I The encounter ends with Nymeria, having proven her bonafides as a protector, re-assuming her role as Arya’s shadow. Sadly this is not meant to continue. In the aftermath of the debacle, Ned takes up the tale. Prior to the quote below Arya calmly tells her tale, but grows angry and wild at Joffrey and then Sansa’s lies. I do wonder if her bond to Nymeria is affecting her behavior here. Preston Jacobs has recently done a series suggesting that the presence of a bonded beast may drive more aggressive behavior in the Starks. After Cersei determines that Lady is to be executed, Arya grows wild again in defense of her pack. Sansa, by contrast, throws Nymeria under the bus. A Game of Thrones – Eddard III “Lady wasn’t there,” Arya shouted angrily. “You leave her alone!” “Stop them,” Sansa pleaded, “don’t let them do it, please, please, it wasn’t Lady, it was Nymeria, Arya did it, you can’t, it wasn’t Lady, don’t let them hurt Lady, I’ll make her be good, I promise, I promise …” She started to cry. The chapter ends with Lady’s death, but before that Ned sees the hound return with Mycah’s body, but not before the author cruelly lets us think it was Nymeria. There was something slung over the back of his destrier, a heavy shape wrapped in a bloody cloak. “No sign of your daughter, Hand,” the Hound rasped down, “but the day was not wholly wasted. We got her little pet.” He reached back and shoved the burden off, and it fell with a thump in front of Ned. Bending, Ned pulled back the cloak, dreading the words he would have to find for Arya, but it was not Nymeria after all. It was the butcher’s boy, Mycah, his body covered in dried blood. He had been cut almost in half from shoulder to waist by some terrible blow struck from above. – A Game of Thrones – Eddard III Nymeria’s survival becomes plain when she returns to the story in ACoK. For the remainder of A Game of Thrones, Arya mourns her loss and Mycah’s while Sansa continues to blame Arya and Nymeria for all her woes. This is poignant in Ned’s following chapter. The event at the fords split wide the cracks that were in these relationships, while Nymeria was abandoned. We must assume she felt lost, just as Arya is in this chapter. A Game of Thrones - Eddard IV Outside, wagons and riders were still pouring through the castle gates, and the yard was a chaos of mud and horseflesh and shouting men. The king had not yet arrived, he was told. Since the ugliness on the Trident, the Starks and their household had ridden well ahead of the main column, the better to separate themselves from the Lannisters and the growing tension. Robert had hardly been seen; the talk was he was traveling in the huge wheelhouse, drunk as often as not. If so, he might be hours behind, but he would still be here too soon for Ned's liking. He had only to look at Sansa's face to feel the rage twisting inside him once again. The last fortnight of their journey had been a misery. Sansa blamed Arya and told her that it should have been Nymeria who died. And Arya was lost after she heard what had happened to her butcher's boy. Sansa cried herself to sleep, Arya brooded silently all day long, and Eddard Stark dreamed of a frozen hell reserved for the Starks of Winterfell. - A Game of Thrones - Eddard IV We can assume that a weak bond still exists between Nymeria and Arya during the ensuing chapters of AGoT. Recalling our 5 themes of the wolf bonds, three are torn away during this time. Nymeria is stripped of her role as a protector, can no longer be affectionate with Arya, and has lost her pack. As to bad things happening when the wolves are separated from their humans, that is obvious with the Starks experiences in King’s Landing. She probably does still mirror Arya’s moods still to some degree. Arya finally has another POV where we get see those moods up close. Nymeria returns to her thoughts when she’s angry with Sansa, practicing with Needle and considering running away. Nymeria certainly would want to rejoin Arya still at this point as Arya considers things; all those thoughts would probably call you her. This is definitely an indication of the bond. It’s also interesting that Arya’s bond to Jon is recalled when she thinks of Nymeria. Some of their happiest times together were spent also with Ghost and Jon. A Game of Thrones - Arya II She went back to the window, Needle in hand, and looked down into the courtyard below. If only she could climb like Bran, she thought; she would go out the window and down the tower, run away from this horrible place, away from Sansa and Septa Mordane and Prince Joffrey, from all of them. Steal some food from the kitchens, take Needle and her good boots and a warm cloak. She could find Nymeria in the wild woods below the Trident, and together they'd return to Winterfell, or run to Jon on the Wall. She found herself wishing that Jon was here with her now. Then maybe she wouldn't feel so alone. That last line is particularly heart wrenching. Nymeria must also be extremely lonely at this point. One must wonder when she begins to form her new pack. Our answer may be later this same chapter when Ned then brings Nymeria up again, giving Arya some well-needed parental advice. He can see like we do how close they had been and how Arya missed Nymeria. Then Ned lectures her about the importance of pack especially for the direwolves of Stark. One must wander if Sansa’s road may have been easier if he’d given her the same lecture. “We all lie,” her father said. “Or did you truly think I’d believe that Nymeria ran off?” Arya blushed guiltily. “Jory promised not to tell.” “Jory kept his word,” her father said with a smile. “There are some things I do not need to be told. Even a blind man could see that wolf would never have left you willingly.” […] “The hard cruel times,” her father said. “We tasted them on the Trident, child, and when Bran fell. You were born in the long summer, sweet one, you’ve never known anything else, but now the winter is truly coming. Remember the sigil of our House, Arya.” “The direwolf,” she said, thinking of Nymeria. She hugged her knees against her chest, suddenly afraid. “Let me tell you something about wolves, child. When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives. Summer is the time for squabbles. In winter, we must protect one another, keep each other warm, share our strengths. So if you must hate, Arya, hate those who would truly do us harm. Septa Mordane is a good woman, and Sansa … Sansa is your sister. You may be as different as the sun and the moon, but the same blood flows through both your hearts. You need her, as she needs you … and I need both of you, gods help me.” – A Game of Thrones – Arya II Nymeria only comes up once more in AGoT when Arya was following Varys and Illyrio. I’d suggest this is an example of the bond as well. She needed her protector, but she also needed confidence. Nymeria couldn’t provide the former, but she may have helped with the latter. A Game of Thrones - Arya III She must have crept after them for miles. Finally they were gone, but there was no place to go but forward. She found the wall again and followed, blind and lost, pretending that Nymeria was padding along beside her in the darkness. At the end she was knee-deep in foul-smelling water, wishing she could dance upon it as Syrio might have, and wondering if she'd ever see light again. It was full dark when finally Arya emerged into the night air. - A Game of Thrones - Arya III A Clash of Kings - The Great She-Wolf and The Shapechanger Survivor A Clash of Kings introduces wolf dreams and really explores the pack through tales of the great pack that Nymeria has developed. We also learn for sure in this volume that separation has not broken their bond. Their personalities continue to match, even if they may never again have the opportunity to be affectionate to each other. Arya doesn’t have Nymeria close to her as her protector, but Nymeria and the threat of wolves loom large in this book, as she has formed a new pack. Before this though, our author reminds us of her original pack. We start in Bran I where Nymeria and the rest of the pack are mentioned. We must wonder how much Nymeria can sense her siblings, as Summer seems have the power to do. Summer's howls were long and sad, full of grief and longing. Shaggydog's were more savage. Their voices echoed through the yards and halls until the castle rang and it seemed as though some great pack of direwolves haunted Winterfell, instead of only two . . . two where there had once been six. Do they miss their brothers and sisters too? Bran wondered. Are they calling to Grey Wind and Ghost, to Nymeria and Lady's Shade? Do they want them to come home and be a pack together? "Who can know the mind of a wolf?" Ser Rodrik Cassel said when Bran asked him why they howled. Bran's lady mother had named him castellan of Winterfell in her absence, and his duties left him little time for idle questions. - A Clash of Kings - Bran I In the ACoK Arya chapters, the word “wolf” is used 28 times. The word “wolves” is used 30 times. Of these mentions, the following categorizations can be made (see table below). (Multiple mentions of the same subject in a paragraph or in consecutive paragraphs not counted multiple times). Young Wolf (mention or description) 6 Nymeria (mention or description) 4 Eddard (mention or description) 1 Arya sees a pack 1 Mention a pack 14 Dream 2 Stark banner 1 Heard howls 7 Lady (mention or description) 2 Arya (mention or description) 6 Total Mentions 43 GRRM certainly wants us not to forget that Nymeria is running wild in the Riverlands. The tales indicate that her great pack is running rampant, terrorizing some in the Riverlands. Arya know immediately that it is Nymeria, but she’s ashamed of having thrown stones at her, so no reunion is forthcoming. “I heard the same thing from my cousin, and she’s not the sort to lie,” an old woman said. “She says there’s this great pack, hundreds of them, mankillers. The one that leads them is a she-wolf, a bitch from the seventh hell.” A she-wolf. Arya sloshed her beer, wondering. Was the Gods Eye near the Trident? She wished she had a map. It had been near the Trident that she’d left Nymeria. She hadn’t wanted to, but Jory said they had no choice, that if the wolf came back with them she’d be killed for biting Joffrey, even though he’d deserved it. They’d had to shout and scream and throw stones, and it wasn’t until a few of Arya’s stones struck home that the direwolf had finally stopped following them. She probably wouldn’t even know me now, Arya thought. Or if she did, she’d hate me. The man in the green cloak said, “I heard how this hellbitch walked into a village one day . . . a market day, people everywhere, and she walks in bold as you please and tears a baby from his mother’s arms. When the tale reached Lord Mooton, him and his sons swore they’d put an end to her. They tracked her to her lair with a pack of wolfhounds, and barely escaped with their skins. Not one of those dogs came back, not one.” – A Clash of Kings – Arya II That last tall tale had drawn Arya’s ire, and she was soon thrown out of the inn by Yoren before she unmasked herself. To contrast the villagers’ tales, Arya is not harmed when encountering wolves face to face in the next chapter, indicating that Nymeria is exercising some protection over her still (Nymeria herself is not seen). The only other explanation would be that Arya herself unwittingly exercised some small amount of telepathic communication with this wolf. The result is the same, though; the bond / warging ability is still there and beginning to strengthen, though Arya still seems to think Nymeria is “gone” as she discusses with Yoren. One of them came padding out from under the trees. He stared at her, and bared his teeth, and all she could think was how stupid she’d been and how Hot Pie would gloat when they found her half-eaten body the next morning. But the wolf turned and raced back into the darkness, and quick as that the eyes were gone. Trembling, she cleaned herself and laced up and followed a distant scraping sound back to camp, and to Yoren. Arya climbed up into the wagon beside him, shaken. “Wolves,” she whispered hoarsely. “In the woods.” “Aye. They would be.” He never looked at her. “They scared me.” “Did they?” He spat. “Seems to me your kind was fond o’ wolves.” “Nymeria was a direwolf.” Arya hugged herself. “That’s different. Anyhow, she’s gone. Jory and I threw rocks at her until she ran off, or else the queen would have killed her.” It made her sad to talk about it. “I bet if she’d been in the city, she wouldn’t have let them cut off Father’s head.” – A Clash of Kings – Arya III Next, Arya is warned of Lorch’s men arriving by wolves; could it be Nymeria’s pack? Probably, because she dreamt the howl that woke her. She must have slept, though she never remembered closing her eyes**. She dreamed a wolf was howling**, and the sound was so terrible that it woke her at once. Arya sat up on her pallet with her heart thumping. “Hot Pie, wake up.” She scrambled to her feet. “Woth, Gendry, didn’t you hear?” She pulled on a boot. All around her, men and boys stirred and crawled from their pallets. “What’s wrong?” Hot Pie asked. “Hear what?” Gendry wanted to know. “Arry had a bad dream,” someone else said. “No, I heard it,” she insisted. “A wolf.” “Arry has wolves in his head,” sneered Lommy. “Let them howl,” Gerren said, “they’re out there, we’re in here.” Woth agreed. “Never saw no wolf could storm a holdfast.” Hot Pie was saying, “I never heard nothing.” “It was a wolf,” she shouted at them as she yanked on her second boot. “Something’s wrong, someone’s coming, get up!” – A Clash of Kings – Arya IV Later, when Jaqen approached her about her 3 deaths-owed, he wakes here from a wolf dream as well. I do wonder if she was howling in this dream, and this is part of how he realized her identity. These are the first 2 wolf dreams in her story, but certainly not the last. Arya was dreaming of wolves running wild through the wood when a strong hand clamped down over her mouth like smooth warm stone, solid and unyielding. She woke at once, squirming and struggling. "A girl says nothing," a voice whispered close behind her ear. "A girl keeps her lips closed, no one hears, and friends may talk in secret. Yes?" - A Clash of Kings - Arya VII When the Boltons take over Harrenhal, she reminds us all of her bond with Nymeria by taking her name. She also prays to the old gods to make her strong like a wolf. She bit her lip, groping for another name. Lommy had called her Lumpyhead, Sansa used Horseface, and her father’s men once dubbed her Arya Underfoot, but she did not think any of those were the sort of name he wanted. “Nymeria,” she said. “Only she called me Nan for short.” […] Arya went to her knees. She wasn’t sure how she should begin. She clasped her hands together. Help me, you old gods, she prayed silently. Help me get those men out of the dungeon so we can kill Ser Amory, and bring me home to Winterfell. Make me a water dancer and a wolf and not afraid again, ever. – A Clash of Kings – Arya IX The next time she prays to the old god’s for guidance she hears what is likely Nymeria’s howl and remembers her father’s advice about being with your pack. This is a strong indication of their bond. This gives her the courage to take Gendry and Hot Pie as pseudo-pack and go searching for her family at Riverrun. For a long moment there was no sound but the wind and the water and the creak of leaf and limb. And then, far far off, beyond the godswood and the haunted towers and the immense stone walls of Harrenhal, from somewhere out in the world, came the long lonely howl of a wolf. Gooseprickles rose on Arya's skin, and for an instant she felt dizzy. Then, so faintly, it seemed as if she heard her father's voice. "When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives," he said. "But there is no pack," she whispered to the weirwood. Bran and Rickon were dead, the Lannisters had Sansa, Jon had gone to the Wall. "I'm not even me now, I'm Nan." - A Clash of Kings - Arya X That concludes Nymeria’s story in ACoK, save for a reminder from Jon about the pack while he contemplates his own imminent death by wildling. His questions about how the wolves sense each other foreshadow the exploration of the magic of the direwolves of Winterfell coming next in ASoS. It will be good to feel warm again, if only for a little while, he told himself while he hacked bare branches from the trunk of a dead tree. Ghost sat on his haunches watching, silent as ever. Will he howl for me when I'm dead, as Bran's wolf howled when he fell? Jon wondered. Will Shaggydog howl, far off in Winterfell, and Grey Wind and Nymeria, wherever they might be? - A Clash of Kings Jon VIII Overall Arya and Nymeria's bond remains relatively strong through ACoK, which was somewhat unexpected. Arya's physical proximity allows it to grow, while Nymeria still is trying to fulfill her role as protector. A Storm of Swords - The Shadow Pack Leader and the Lone Wolf The concept of pack continues to be explored in ASoS as the magic of the wolves is further explained. We get to see through Summer’s eyes how he senses his packmates. Summer has a close enough bond to Shaggy that he knows he’s near, but he could only sense the others “sometimes”. I speculate that this may be partly because Jon and Ghost are beyond the wall. Still, he knows Lady is dead (the only one who has died at this point). His “sister” is mentioned as well in the bottom paragraph, though it’s unclear if he meant Lady or Nymeria. In other parts of the series I’ll discuss the idea that some of the direwolves may have more magic than others. He had a pack as well, once. Five they had been, and a sixth who stood aside. Somewhere down inside him were the sounds the men had given them to tell one from the other, but it was not by their sounds he knew them. He remembered their scents, his brothers and his sisters. They all had smelled alike, had smelled of pack, but each was different too. His angry brother with the hot green eyes was near, the prince felt, though he had not seen him for many hunts. Yet with every sun that set he grew more distant, and he had been the last. The others were far scattered, like leaves blown by the wild wind. Sometimes he could sense them, though, as if they were still with him, only hidden from his sight by a boulder or a stand of trees. He could not smell them, nor hear their howls by night, yet he felt their presence at his back . . . all but the sister they had lost. His tail drooped when he remembered her. Four now, not five. Four and one more, the white who has no voice. These woods belonged to them, the snowy slopes and stony hills, the great green pines and the golden leaf oaks, the rushing streams and blue lakes fringed with fingers of white frost. But his sister had left the wilds, to walk in the halls of man-rock where other hunters ruled, and once within those halls it was hard to find the path back out. The wolf prince remembered. - A Storm of Swords – Bran I In the ASoS Riverlands chapters (Arya, Cat, Jaime), we get a second helping of mentions of Nymeria’s wolf pack prowling the Riverlands. This is coupled with discussion of Hot Pie and Gendry being her pack now, reminding us that even though Arya is now several times a killer, she is still also a lost little girl searching for her family. The word “wolf” is used 52 times; the word “direwolf” is used 18 times the word "wolves" is used 57 times. Of these mentions the following categorizations can be made. Note: Multiple mentions of the same subject in a paragraph or in consecutive paragraphs not counted multiple times. Young Wolf (mention or description) 13 Arya (mention or description) 21 Nymeria Mention (or description) 1 Grey Wind (mention or description) 10 Other Stark Wolves (mention or description) 5 Northmen (mention or description) 20 See a pack 4 Mention A pack 7 Dream 9 Stark's described as Wolves/Skinchangers 8 Stark banner / sigil 7 Heard howls 8 Arya thinks of herself as a wolf a lot in this volume. We also get a lot of mentions of Robb and his army as wolves. Direct mentions of Nymeria are sparse, but we do get many mentions of her pack, and we get Nymeria/Arya’s first POV wolf dream in her first chapter, followed by many more wolf dreams. Several dreams are described to us in the chapters, but at one point she mentions dreaming of wolves every night. The first dream is foreshadowed by Arya, Hot Pie and Gendry encountering parts of Nymeria’s pack but being left unmolested by them. A Storm of Swords - Arya I Gendry's mare lost her footing in the mud once, going down hard on her hindquarters and spilling him from the saddle, but neither horse nor rider was hurt, and Gendry got that stubborn look on his face and mounted right up again. Not long after, they came upon three wolves devouring the corpse of a fawn. When Hot Pie's horse caught the scent, he shied and bolted. Two of the wolves fled as well, but the third raised his head and bared his teeth, prepared to defend his kill. "Back off," Arya told Gendry. "Slow, so you don't spook him." They edged their mounts away, until the wolf and his feast were no longer in sight. Only then did she swing about to ride after Hot Pie, who was clinging desperately to the saddle as he crashed through the trees. […] From time to time she sent Hot Pie and Gendry on while she doubled back to try to confuse their trail, listening all the while for the first sign of pursuit. Too slow, she thought to herself, chewing her lip, we’re going too slow, they’ll catch us for certain. Once, from the crest of a ridge, she spied dark shapes crossing a stream in the valley behind them, and for half a heartbeat she feared that Roose Bolton’s riders were on them, but when she looked again, she realized they were only a pack of wolves. She cupped her hands around her mouth and howled down at them, “Ahooooooooo, ahooooooooo.” When the largest of the wolves lifted its head and howled back, the sound made Arya shiver. […] She would make much better time on her own, Arya knew, but she could not leave them. They were her pack, her friends, the only living friends that remained to her, and if not for her they would still be safe at Harrenhal, Gendry sweating at his forge and Hot Pie in the kitchens. Continued in Oldest Reply
