=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Story so Far | Vivienne Westwood®]
The Early Years 1981 - 1987 In 1984 the Nostalgia of Mud shop (now known as Worlds End) closes in West London and Vivienne relocates to Italy. Vivienne receives an invitation to show her Spring-Summer 1984 'Hypnos' collection in Tokyo at Hanae Mori's 'Best of Five' global fashion awards, with Calvin Klein, Claude Montana, and Gianfranco Ferre. Vivienne Westwood opens another London ...
URL: https://www.viviennewestwood.com/en-us/westwood-world/the-story-so-far/

[Top | Vivienne Westwood | V&A Explore The Collections]
Westwood herself once said, 'You have a much better life if you wear impressive clothes.' This neon yellow lycra top was part of Westwood's 'Hypnos' collection of Spring/Summer 1984. Much of the Hypnos collection featured streamlined garments made from synthetic sports material rendered in bright, fluorescent colours.
URL: https://collections.vam.ac.uk/item/O69558/

[The Legacy of Vivienne Westwood - London Runway]
A relocation to Italy in 1984 propelled Vivienne Westwood to the next level as she showcased her Spring/Summer 1984 Hypnos Collection in Tokyo after being invited as part of Hanae Mori's global fashion awards.
URL: https://londonrunway.co.uk/the-legacy-of-vivienne-westwood/

[COLLECTOR World's End S/S 1984 'Hypnos' Ensemble - ReSee]
- Vintage World's End by Vivienne Westwood Bondage Ensemble - Spring 1984 'Hypnos' Runway Collection, seen in orange - Tonal blue woven cotton skirt ensemble - Subtle red checkered detailing - Draped scoop-neck patchwork top - Add a belt to achieve the central pockets runway look - High-waisted slit skirt with bondage velcrow waist
URL: https://www.resee.com/en/product/collector-world-s-end-s-s-1984-hypnos-ensemble-28033-190723-007

[Vivienne Westwood, Spring/Summer 1984]
The Collection in Context The “Hypnos” collection was shown at the Cour du Louvre, Paris, which was the only location that Westwood had used for shows.
URL: https://www.bloomsburyfashioncentral.com/products/fashion-photography-archive/article/vivienne-westwood-spring-summer-1984


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Story so Far | Vivienne Westwood®] ---
Westwood World The Story so Far — 430 Kings Road 1971 – 1980 The hippie movement was the most popular fashion in late 1960s London, but it didn’t inspire young Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren. They were much more intrigued by acts of rebellion and typical 1950s clothing, music, and memorabilia. Vivienne began by designing and making Teddy Boy clothes for Malcolm and in 1971 they opened a small boutique called Let it Rock at number 430 Kings Road, Chelsea in London. A year later, Vivienne’s interests had turned to biker clothing, zips, and leather. The shop re-branded with a skull and crossbones and was renamed Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die. Vivienne and Malcolm began to design their own t-shirts with provocative printed slogans, which led to their prosecution under the 1959 Obscene Publications Act; they responded by re-branding the shop once again and producing even more t-shirts featuring hard-core images. By 1974 the shop was renamed Sex, a shop “unlike anything else going on in England at the time” they used the slogan ‘rubberwear for the office’. Two years later, popular band the Sex Pistols’ (managed by Malcolm) song ‘God Save the Queen’ went to number one in the charts but was refused airtime by the BBC. The shop reopened as Seditionaries, transforming the straps and zips of obscure sexual fetishism and bondage into fashion, and inspiring a D.I.Y. aesthetic. The mass media labelled this as ‘Punk Rock’. The collapse of the Sex Pistols and the adoption of punk by the mainstream left Vivienne disenchanted. In 1980 the shop was refitted and renamed Worlds End, which is still the name that’s in use today. The shop’s basement was formerly a restaurant, but Worlds End eventually absorbed it to expand the stockroom and staff facilities. Officially the shop hasn’t changed aesthetically since opening its doors. The original interior was restored in 2017, but all details remain as they were designed by Vivienne and Malcolm 40 years ago. Vivienne used her creations to communicate ideas – often using graphics to confront issues of political and social injustice. The swastika symbol seen on the 1977 Anarchy Shirt, designed by Westwood & McLaren, was laid over an inverted image of Christ on the crucifix and Queen Elizabeth II on a British stamp, with the word 'DESTROY' emblazoned above the image. The graphics were meant as a provocative act of denouncing corruption and dictatorship. More broadly, it was a meant as a means to challenge the older generation, of saying “We don’t accept your values or your taboos - you’re all fascists.” The Early Years 1981 – 1987 In 1984 the Nostalgia of Mud shop (now known as Worlds End) closes in West London and Vivienne relocates to Italy. Vivienne receives an invitation to show her Spring-Summer 1984 ‘Hypnos’ collection in Tokyo at Hanae Mori’s ‘Best of Five’ global fashion awards, with Calvin Klein, Claude Montana, and Gianfranco Ferre. Vivienne Westwood opens another London boutique on Davies Street in 1988. In 1986 the orb logo was first used to symbolize taking tradition into the future. Carlo D’Amario was appointed Managing Director of Vivienne Westwood Ltd in 1986. The 1981 ‘Pirate’ Collection was Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren’s first official collaborative catwalk show. It informed the aesthetic of The Worlds End Boutique with its pirate’s galleon and ship features. This collection was filled with romantic looks in gold, orange, and yellow which burst onto the London fashion scene, ensuring its place in the house’s history of influence. ‘We’ve only stopped to note significant innovations, otherwise, the ideas carry through and develop throughout the collections.’ ‘Pirate’, Autumn-Winter 1981/82 was their first catwalk show. Looking at plundering history and the Third World. The research was into historical dress, keeping the original cuts as fashion. Inspired by Native American patterns, the ‘Pirate’ trousers had a baggy bum, in complete contrast to hippy hipsters and ‘tight arses’ of the time. The position of the neck when worn, was asymmetrical. At this pivotal point in her career, Vivienne reimagined techniques based on traditional rectangular cuts. She had an idea she knew would work, knocked it up in rough and on a small scale, and tried it out on a little dummy. Through various adjustments and fittings, she arrived at a full-scale finished garment in the right fabric. Clothes always have a dynamic with the body. She continues to mix this in with historical cuts. Collections: Savage, Spring-Summer 1982 – Flat cutting from Japan. – Inspired by: Matisse and Picasso. – “In taking from other cultures I’m just doing what Picasso did in his painting Demoiselles d’Avignon’” (Vivienne) – Examines rapport between clothes and the body. – Slashed sleeves and contrast linings. – David Lynch’s ‘The Elephant Man’ inspired foreign legion hats. Buffalo Girls (Nostalgia of Mud), Autumn-Winter 1982/83 – Colours: Mud. – Raw cut sheepskin. – Bras – underwear as outerwear. – Inspiration: Peruvian women wearing bowler hats and full skirts, dancing with their babies tied on their back. Punkature, Spring-Summer 1983 – Inspiration: ‘Blade Runner’, desert landscape. – Distressed fabric and recycled junk. – Punk and couture. – Hand-dyed, hand-stitched. – Shoes of disused tyres and cord from favelas. – Giant tin can buttons. – The jersey Tube skirt. Witches, Autumn-Winter 1983/84 – Visit to New York, met Keith Haring. His art looked like magic signs and hieroglyphics. Therefore – collection “Witches”. – Hip Hop, styling of garments. – Stop-frame look. – White trainers customised with three tongues. – Pointed Chico Marx hats. Hypnos, Spring-Summer 1984 – Image: Greek God of Sleep – Collection nothing to do with sleep. – Very active, sportswear as high fashion. – Collaboration with Malcolm McLaren ceased. – Made in Italy. – Inspiration: gay subcultures. – Herpes sores makeup. Clint Eastwood, Autumn-Winter 1984/85 – Vivienne said, “Sometimes you need to transport your idea to an empty landscape and then populate it with fantastic looking people.” – Fluorescent big macs and body stockings, clothes covered in company logos. – Day-Glo patches inspired by Tokyo’s neon signs. Mini-Crini, Spring-Summer 1985 – Cardinal change. Fitted clothes. – English tailoring. Princess line coats, inspired by the Queen as a child. – Wish to kill masculine big shoulders of the 1980s. – Models are sexy, and curvaceous. – Attention drawn to hips. – Inspiration: Petrushka. – Rocking horse shoes.


--- [Top | Vivienne Westwood | V&A Explore The Collections] ---
View by appointment This object is part of the Order an Object service. Use 'Order this Object' to add it to your list, where you can confirm your objects and book your appointment. We don’t have an image of this object online yet. More about images V&A Images may have a photograph that we can’t show online, but it may be possible to supply one to you. Email us at vaimages@vam.ac.uk for guidance about fees and timescales, quoting the accession number: T.169-2002 Top 1984 (made) | Artist/Maker | | | Place of origin | For well over three decades Vivienne Westwood, along with her one-time partner Malcolm McLaren, has been at the centre of British fashion and one of its most inventive and influential designers. Westwood’s career in fashion was galvanised by McLaren and together they launched memorable fashion moments, including Punk in the early 1970s and later their Pirates collection. McLaren and Westwood conducted a design relationship between 1971 and 1983. In 1990 and again in 1991 Vivienne Westwood was named British Designer of the Year; she has also received an OBE. Westwood’s unique mix of practicality and inventiveness, her preoccupation with silhouette and the manner in which she manipulates fabrics result in dynamic fashion. Westwood herself once said, 'You have a much better life if you wear impressive clothes.’ This neon yellow lycra top was part of Westwood’s ‘Hypnos’ collection of Spring/Summer 1984. Much of the Hypnos collection featured streamlined garments made from synthetic sports material rendered in bright, fluorescent colours. Westwood’s unique mix of practicality and inventiveness, her preoccupation with silhouette and the manner in which she manipulates fabrics result in dynamic fashion. Westwood herself once said, 'You have a much better life if you wear impressive clothes.’ This neon yellow lycra top was part of Westwood’s ‘Hypnos’ collection of Spring/Summer 1984. Much of the Hypnos collection featured streamlined garments made from synthetic sports material rendered in bright, fluorescent colours. Object details | Categories | | | Object type | | | Materials and techniques | Cotton and lycra | | Brief description | Top, f, neon yellow cotton / lycra, Vivienne Westwood, Britain, 'Hypnos' collection, 1984 | | Physical description | Short-sleeved neon yellow cotton and lycra top with elasticised ribbed trim at shoulders, neck, hem and vertically underarms to waist and centre back. | | Dimensions | | | Marks and inscriptions | 'Worlds End / Made in Italy' Note Label; English | | Credit line | Purchased with Art Fund support and assistance from the Friends of the V&A, the Elsbeth Evans Trust, and the Dorothy Hughes Bequest | | Production | 'Hypnos' collection (Spring/Summer 1984) | | Summary | For well over three decades Vivienne Westwood, along with her one-time partner Malcolm McLaren, has been at the centre of British fashion and one of its most inventive and influential designers. Westwood’s career in fashion was galvanised by McLaren and together they launched memorable fashion moments, including Punk in the early 1970s and later their Pirates collection. McLaren and Westwood conducted a design relationship between 1971 and 1983. In 1990 and again in 1991 Vivienne Westwood was named British Designer of the Year; she has also received an OBE. Westwood’s unique mix of practicality and inventiveness, her preoccupation with silhouette and the manner in which she manipulates fabrics result in dynamic fashion. Westwood herself once said, 'You have a much better life if you wear impressive clothes.’ This neon yellow lycra top was part of Westwood’s ‘Hypnos’ collection of Spring/Summer 1984. Much of the Hypnos collection featured streamlined garments made from synthetic sports material rendered in bright, fluorescent colours. | | Collection | | | Accession number | T.169-2002 | About this object record Explore the Collections contains over a million catalogue records, and over half a million images. It is a working database that includes information compiled over the life of the museum. Some of our records may contain offensive and discriminatory language, or reflect outdated ideas, practice and analysis. We are committed to addressing these issues, and to review and update our records accordingly. You can write to us to suggest improvements to the record. Suggest feedback You can write to us to suggest improvements to the record. Suggest feedback | Record created | November 7, 2002 | | Record URL | Download as: JSON


--- [The Legacy of Vivienne Westwood - London Runway] ---
Amrit Virdi looks back at the legacy of Dame Vivienne Westwood after her tragic passing in December. You’d have to have been living under a rock to be unbeknown to the impact of legendary British designer Dame Vivienne Westwood. Being a pioneer in merging together fashion and punk music in the new wave era, her work has been celebrated across the world by consumers and designers alike. Dame Westwood studied jewellery and silversmith at the University of Westminster, and was previously a primary school teacher before venturing into fashion. It is clear that she came from humble beginnings and gained her notoriety through hard work, selling her own jewellery at a Portobello Road stall and making her own wedding dress for her first wedding in 1962. A pivotal moment which, in a sense, defined the trajectory of Dame Westwood’s career was her collaboration with renowned band Sex Pistols, who brought Vivienne’s designs to public attention as they were styled in them. Her second husband Malcolm McLaren was the manager of the punk band. With the Sex Pistols becoming a key statement of the 1970s wave of punk fashion, McLaren and Westwood capitalised upon this growing trend by opening SEX, a boutique that defined fashion in the punk movement in 1971, which was eventually renamed as Worlds End in 1979. Here, Vivienne sold graphic tees donning controversial words and symbols and bondage trousers, as well as plenty of leather and biker zips— a far cry from the colourful disco fashion that was in the spotlight at the time. In terms of the punk scene, Dame Westwood’s legacy to this current day is undeniable. SEX and her punk designs gave people who may have felt like ‘outcasts’ in everyday life a place to meet, congregate, and find fashion they resonated with. Though some criticised the frayed edges and slashes in clothes that made them look ‘unfinished’, it represented something more— a rebelling against societal norms of what fashion should be. Dame Westwood classed her designs as being independent, and she did not stay defined to the punk realm. Vivienne held her first official collaborative catwalk show with McLaren in 1981, embracing a romantic style which still lives on in the fashions of Rick Owens and Matty Bovan. Vivienne used it as a way to express her love of colour and advance her designs to not being limited to the traditional punk realm, coinciding with Richard Buckley’s observation of punk taking a more light-hearted stance at this time. The New Romantic look, embodied in the Pirate collection which was showcased in 1981, was flamboyant and bold, breaking even more barriers as it was also partly inspired by Native American patterns. Eye-catching stripes and swirls, baggy trousers, oversized shirts, and pirate-style hats embodied the collection, along with golds, oranges, and yellows. These motifs were influential to a number of people, particularly to Adam and the Ants who took inspiration from this type of fashion and Dame Westwood’s traditional punk leather looks to inform their onstage looks. The extravagant ‘pirate’ motifs weren’t limited to the 1980s. It inspired looks throughout her collection as vibrant patterns in a ‘sophisticated yet raggedy castaway’ style seemed to reoccur, particularly in her Spring 1993 collection. A relocation to Italy in 1984 propelled Vivienne Westwood to the next level as she showcased her Spring/Summer 1984 Hypnos Collection in Tokyo after being invited as part of Hanae Mori’s global fashion awards. This collection went away from the punk scene once more as it embraced brighter colours and parachute style clothes. Carving out her own solidified space in the fashion industry, particularly after the dissolution of her label with Malcolm McLaren after their divorce, it was clear she was becoming a worldwide name. Taking inspiration from all sources, Dame Westwood made her collections culturally relevant, naming her Autumn/Winter 1984-85 collection ‘Clint Eastwood’, in reference to the actor, and releasing a collection inspired by Blade Runner. It also seemed as if the punk motifs were being abandoned altogether. Moving away from punk themes and towards clothes which parodied the upper classes, Dame Westwood invented her iconic ‘Mini-Crini’ in 1985, taking inspiration from Victorian fashion. Mixing the corset-style Victorian crinoline and the miniskirt, it merged together old and new in a fashionable way. She kept this mission of merging worlds throughout her career as she brought together old and new again when designing academic gowns for King’s College London in 2007. Teaching in Vienna and Berlin, Vivienne’s desire to shape the younger generation also was apparent in her ethos and branding. With her name becoming more prominent than ever before, it signalled a key moment for the innovative branding that would symbolise her fashion. The orb logo was invented in 1986 as Vivienne was under the wing of Fiorucci in Italy following her divorce. As she moved to Italy, she was inspired by images of royalty, luxury, and evolving traditions into the future when designing. It was then, via experimentation, that the orb logo was born, and it symbolised taking tradition into the future. It first appeared on the Harris Tweed in the 1987-88 Autumn/Winter collection and has been an iconic piece of imagery ever since. When you think of Vivienne Westwood, the orb is generally what comes to mind first, and this rings true even in 2023. Her shoes, bags, and clothing all have the iconic orb on them somewhere, but 2021 saw the resurgence in popularity of Vivienne Westwood’s jewellery amidst the y2k trends rising in popularity. The Mini Bas Relief Pearl Choker, often paired with the Mini Bas Relief Orb Earrings, were so popular that they were almost impossible to get hold of. With the orb available in different sizes and colours— either gold, silver, or rose gold, it emphasised how Dame Westwood had the ability to make her designs accessible to people of different styles and different generations. Whether paired with a bodycon skirt and shirt for the office or with cargos and a crop top for an everyday look, the Bas Relief jewellery line managed to find its way into almost every outfit— a testament to Vivienne Westwood’s legacy. From the 1990s onwards, Dame Westwood’s impact was recognised even further with a slew of accolades. John Fairchild classed her as one of the world’s top six designers in his 1989 book, and she won the British Fashion Council’s award for ‘Fashion Designer of the Year’ two years in a row in 1990 and 1991. Additionally, she also received a Damehood in 2006. Celebrities across the world have worn Vivienne’s designs, including Princess Eugenie, Pharrell Williams, and Dua Lipa. Dame Westwood’s introduction of wedding gowns into her collection in 1992 also led her to gain even more publicity among the celebrity world. Dita Von Teese wore a purple gown designed by Vivienne Westwood for her wedding in 2005, and the 2008 film adaptation of Sex and the City featured its main character being sent a handwritten note and wedding dress from Westwood herself. After the film was premiered, a knee-length version of the dress was able to buy, and this sold out in hours. Throughout the later stages of her life, Westwood’s contributions as an avid activist really shined. In late 2022, she founded a not-for-profit company with her sons and her granddaughter titled The Vivienne Foundation, which is set to launch late 2023 in honour of her legacy. Their aim to create change by working with NGOs, tackling climate change, stopping war, defending human rights and protesting capitalism. Her legacy stretched across international charities having worked with charities such as Amnesty International, Liberty, and War Child, but the main focus of her activism was around preventing climate change. As an ambassador for Greenpeace, she launched a global campaign to stop drilling and industrial fishing in the Arctic in 2015. Creating change specifically within the fashion world was also a goal of Vivienne’s, which manifested in multiple ways. Her ‘Made in Kenya’ collaboration launched in 2010, which was a partnership with the United Nations supporting the Ethical Fashion Initiative and Artisan Fashion. Her 2018 collaboration with Burberry was also in support of a UK not-for-profit organisation called Cool Earth, which raises money to protect endangered forests and ecosystems to fight global warming. In a similar vein, she partnered with Eastpak for the ‘SAVE OUR OCEANS’ line of bags in July 2020, and partnered with not-for-profit organisation Canopy for Earth Day 2020, campaigning to protect forests through fabric choices. Her last physical fashion show was the 2019 London Fashion Week before she made the decision to go digital for environmental reasons. With an astounding legacy such as this, it is no wonder that there was an outpouring of condolences from celebrities of different industries from all over the world. Bella Hadid, Naomi Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis, Victoria Beckham, Paul McCartney, and Marc Jacobs are just a few of the big names who paid tribute to the designer, with Stella McCartney writing that “Vivienne pushed every single boundary and held her head so high.” “Fashion is life-enhancing and I think it’s a lovely, generous thing to do for other people.” This is one of Dame Vivienne Westwood’s most famous quotes, and it certainly rings true to her work. While she started out with fashion, Dame Westwood has used the platform that it gave her to shine a light on a wealth of societal issues and has taken the fashion world a step further. As people of all ages still buy her designs today and her activism lives on through the Vivienne Foundation, it is clear that she has left an amazing legacy and will go down in history as one of the fashion greats. You can read more of Amrit’s work via her portfolio, amritvirdi.journoportfolio.com, or by following her Instagram @thevinylwriter. Image below by Mattia Passeri from Wikimedia Commons


--- [COLLECTOR World's End S/S 1984 'Hypnos' Ensemble - ReSee] ---
Vivienne Westwood COLLECTOR World's End S/S 1984 'Hypnos' Ensemble Size: 34 FR / XS Size details Condition : Very good 5 €4,330.00 incl. duties & taxes 4x €1,082.50 with Paypal interest-free. DHL Shipping 5-7 days Taxes and/or Duties Included Individually cleaned to meet ReSee's standards Description - Vintage World's End by Vivienne Westwood Bondage Ensemble - Spring 1984 'Hypnos' Runway Collection, seen in orange - Tonal blue woven cotton skirt ensemble - Subtle red checkered detailing - Draped scoop-neck patchwork top - Add a belt to achieve the central pockets runway look - High-waisted slit skirt with bondage velcrow waist - Featuring asymmetrical double zip - Top: back velcrow latch closing - Skirt: adjustable velcrow belt closing - An ultra rare collectors ensemble from the S/S '84 'Hypnos' collection, that showcased contemporary sportswear style as high fashion Size: 34 FR / XS Condition: Very good Code: 28033-190723-007 Location: Part of our Paris collection ReSee curates rare pieces from around the world, carefully housed in either our Paris or New York collections. If you would like to try this piece on please contact : Boutique ReSee, trusted by collectors worldwide Every piece on ReSee is authentic, curated with care, and delivered securely worldwide. Join our community of fashion lovers — subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive arrivals and collector stories. About ReSee Born in Paris from a shared love of timeless fashion, ReSee gives new life to iconic pieces while honoring their story. Each one is chosen for its craftsmanship, its heritage, and an elegance that stands the test of time. ReSee Care Your pieces deserve the same care they were given when they were made. Our experts authenticate, restore, and carefully prepare them for their next chapter.


--- [Vivienne Westwood, Spring/Summer 1984] ---
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20210416235856/https://www.bloomsburyfashioncentral.com/products/fashion-photography-archive/article/vivienne-westwood-spring-summer-1984 Moyse, Lucy. "Vivienne Westwood, Spring/Summer 1984." In Fashion Photography Archive. London: Bloomsbury, 2015. Accessed April 16, 2021. http://dx.doi.org/10.5040/9781474260428-FPA304. Moyse, L. (2015). Vivienne Westwood, Spring/Summer 1984. In Fashion Photography Archive. London: Bloomsbury. Retrieved April 16 2021, from http://dx.doi.org/10.5040/9781474260428-FPA304 Email Notes Please fill in your details below to send an email containing the page note The fields marked with * need to be completed This content is not covered under a current subscription plan Please contact your library to request a trial. For more information see Subscriber Services
