=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Birth of Tragedy: Antigone at the Epidaurus Theater]
Aug 24, 2022 · The dark music composed by Dimitris Theocharis and the remainder of the cast were superb, rounding out a fantastic performance. An evening at the Epidaurus Theater is always a privilege and a pleasure to enjoy, but this Antigone made my experience all the sweeter.
URL: https://fieldstonnews.com/home/2022/08/the-birth-of-tragedy-antigone-at-the-epidaurus-theater/

[Antigone Sophocles - SUMMER TOUR - National Theatre of Greece]
Jun 27, 2025 · On 27, 28 & 29 June, the National Theatre of Greece opens this year’s Athens Epidaurus Festival with a world premiere, presenting Ulrich Rasche’s production of Sophocles’ Antigone in Nikos Panagiotopoulos’s unsurpassed translation. Three years after his thrilling version of Aeschylus’ Agamemnon – anyone who saw it will long remember the hypnotic intensity of the performers marching ...
URL: https://www.n-t.gr/en/events/Antigoni_25

[Antigone - Athens Epidaurus Festival]
Jul 21, 2018 · The two men’s sister, Antigone, refuses to obey the order. After arguing with her sister, Ismene, who originally refuses to help her, Antigone decides to bury Polynices on her own.
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/antigone/?lang=en

[Premiere of the Anniversary Epidaurus Festival with Ulrich Rasche's ...]
Jun 30, 2025 · This was the second time the director presented his work on ancient tragedy at the Argolic theater, following the 2022 production of Aeschylus’s “ Agamemnon,” a co-production of the Athens Epidaurus Festival and the Residenztheater of Munich.
URL: https://daysofart.gr/en/festivals/premiere-of-the-anniversary-epidaurus-festival-with-ulrich-rasches-take-on-antigone-by-panos-liakos/

[Antigone - alexanderraptotasios]
Antigone by Sophocles Athens & Epidaurus Festival 2022 Peiraios 260 (Stage H') Produced by the Athens & Epidaurus Festival and funded by the European Funding Program Horizons and VAST (Values Across Space & Time). A performance about the relationship between the polis (and its citizens) and power, a timeless question posed by this tragedy.
URL: https://www.alexanderraptotasios.com/antigone


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Birth of Tragedy: Antigone at the Epidaurus Theater] ---
The Ancient Theater of Epidaurus was built in the 4th century BCE atop Cynortion Mountain, near the Sanctuary of Asclepius, the Greek God of medicine. It is the best-preserved amphitheater in Greece, and with a capacity of roughly 13,000 people, it is one of the largest outdoor theaters in the world. The theater is renowned for its acoustics; in fact, it is said that if you drop a coin onto its stage, its echo can be heard all the way in the topmost row and beyond. The annual Epidaurus Festival is a top-rated cultural tourist attraction, with people from all over the world attending every summer. It hosts everything from ancient plays to operas, and many great artists have performed in it, such as the Greek soprano Maria Callas. Typically, attendees stay in Nafplio, the closest city to Epidaurus, and drive to the theater shortly before showtime. Almost as amazing as the theater itself is the journey it takes to get there. Scattered across the road that joins Nafplio to Epidaurus are fascinating archaeological sites, remains of ancient edifices, beautiful mountainous landscapes and quaint old buildings. An Ancient Greek tragedy can be a cathartic experience. The purpose of tragedy, argued Aristotle, was to cleanse the soul, rid us of petty worries, and teach us that there can be nobility in suffering. This summer, the festival staged several tragedies, including Alcestis and Helen by Euripides, The Persians and Agamemnon by Aeschylus, and Ajax and Antigone by Sophocles, the latter of which I attended on August 5. These works are timeless, as they capture the essence of human nature and enchant audiences to this day; after all, people still travel to Epidaurus to see them thousands of years after they were created. In The Birth of Tragedy, Friedrich Nietzsche, a staunch philhellene, wrote that the works of Sophocles, in particular, were the apex of artistic creation. Sophocles was one of three Ancient Greek tragedians for whom any plays have survived, the other two being Aeschylus and Euripides. Sophocles was the most successful of the three, winning 24 Dionysian festivals, compared to Aeschylus’ 13 and Euripides’ 4. Antigone, the third play in the Theban trilogy, is arguably Sophocles’ greatest work. The play contains one of the most beautiful odes to love ever written: “Love, invincible in battle; you, who always prevails … you, from whom no one, God nor Man, can escape”. Many dramatists have produced adaptations of Antigone; for example, Bertolt Brecht staged a variation in which Creon was portrayed as a Nazi-style dictator. Antigone concerns themes such as fate versus free will, the individual versus the state, femininity, hubris, and the nature of tragedy. Few works have been more rigorously analyzed. Is Antigone a heroine? Is Creon a villain? Is he deserving of sympathy? These are only a few of the many questions the play makes us ask. There are few female figures in theater on par with Antigone in terms of bravery and determination. She courageously defied the King’s demands and in the end, got her way, having buried Polynices and accepted the consequences. The relationship between men and women is a primary theme in the play, particularly the dynamic between the sisters and the patriarchal state. In the first scene, Ismene remarks, “We are only women, we cannot fight with men, Antigone!” and later, Creon says, “No woman shall seduce us. If we must lose, let’s lose to a man, at least! Is a woman stronger than we?” In the end, Antigone breaks these preconceptions and dies a strong and independent person. The role of the state is another important theme. While Antigone believes that the Gods’ desires supersede all man-made laws, Creon maintains that the law of the state is of primary importance. Creon defends his authority throughout the play, even saying that “the State is the King!” when challenged by Teiresias. Creon’s excessive pride and hubris do not go unpunished, as he is left miserable and alone at the end of the play, having effectively caused the deaths of his whole family. This production of Antigone was conceptualized by the acclaimed Lithuanian director Cezaris Graužinis. His production, intended to resonate with modern audiences, presented the drama in a contemporary setting and included numerous innovative elements. For example, the chorus, representing the citizens of Athens, was made up of an unusually small group of seven people. They wore modern-day suits and top hats and oftentimes sang and danced together. Furthermore, the actors on several occasions broke the fourth wall, directly speaking to the audience as though they were members of the chorus. “The rationale of the performance,” said Graužinis, “was formulated with the aim of poetically reflecting the current new reality of society’s life and, in this new light, to reflect and explore the concepts of Ancient Drama, as well as to establish communication with the audience not only aesthetically or intellectually but also on an emotional level.” Elli Tringou was superb as the title character. Her resonant and unwavering voice projected throughout the theater, from the moving interaction with her loving sister in the first scene, to when she triumphantly trod towards her death. Tringou’s Antigone was confident and strong as she boldly stood up to Creon, smiling as she exclaimed, “unhappy daughter of kings, your kings, led away to death… come: let us wait no longer”. Vasilis Bisbikis, one of Greece’s finest actors, presented a stubborn and oppressive Creon. He was convincingly angry and irritable in his conversation with the edgy sentry, speaking the lines “your very voice distresses me” and “you talk too much” with a blend of exasperation and anguish, and fierce and forceful in his interaction with Antigone, standing by his law and sending her off to die. At the end of the play, overcome with regret and sorrow, he sat down with his head in his hands, whimpering as he said, “Lead me away. I have been rash and foolish. I have killed my son and my wife”. Kostas Koroneou was an excellent sentry, providing comic relief as he nervously tip-toed across the circular stage, and Christos Sapountzis was pristine as the blind seer Teiresias, for instance when he loudly exclaimed, “You are sick, Creon! You are deathly sick!” Stratis Chatzistamatiou was notably wonderful as Haimon, Creon’s distressed son; in one of the most emotional moments of the play, he fell to his knees, shouting, “Ah! Who is it that’s talking like a boy now?” during his acrimonious dispute with his father. The dark music composed by Dimitris Theocharis and the remainder of the cast were superb, rounding out a fantastic performance. An evening at the Epidaurus Theater is always a privilege and a pleasure to enjoy, but this Antigone made my experience all the sweeter.


--- [Antigone Sophocles - SUMMER TOUR - National Theatre of Greece] ---
On 27, 28 & 29 June, the National Theatre of Greece opens this year’s Athens Epidaurus Festival with a world premiere, presenting Ulrich Rasche’s production of Sophocles’ Antigone in Nikos Panagiotopoulos’s unsurpassed translation. Three years after his thrilling version of Aeschylus’ Agamemnon – anyone who saw it will long remember the hypnotic intensity of the performers marching endlessly on a huge rotating stage with live music in the background – the subversive German director returns to the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus to direct a dazzling cast of Greek actors in one of Sophocles’ most powerful works. This co-production between the National Theatre of Greece and the Athens Epidaurus Festival will be performed solely at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus. Antigone: the clash of two worlds Ulrich Rasche returns to Epidaurus three years after his captivating staging of Aeschylus’ Agamemnon, a co-production with Munich’s Residenztheater. Anyone who saw it will long remember the hypnotic intensity of the performers marching endlessly on the huge rotating stage with live music in the background, elements that run through his work. Now, Rasche develops his radical stage language in Antigone, Sophocles’ deeply political play that explores the difference between the individual and the citizen and the limits of personal will within an organised society, as well as the identity of a functioning democracy. Highlighting the archetypal character of Antigone, the German director poses crucial questions about her conflict with Creon, who he views not as an authoritarian but as a genuine protector of the interests of the State, and therefore of democracy. Faced with the consequences of a civil war, Creon dictates that because Polynices had led a rebellion against Thebes, he should not receive a proper burial. This decision underlines his conviction that loyalty to the state is of paramount importance and that treason must be severely punished in order to maintain social stability. His actions might well be considered justified if seen in the light of pragmatic governance and the need to maintain civil order. But where do the boundaries between moral responsibility and political power lie? How can enduring democracy be ensured? Having tackled ancient drama at a number of major European theatres as well as Epidaurus over recent years (Seven Against Thebes and Antigone in 2017, The Persians in 2018, The Bacchae and Electra in 2019, Oedipus in 2020, and Agamemnon in 2022), Rasche once again presents his pioneering theatrical vision to audiences at Epidaurus in an Antigone performed by an outstanding cast with a ten-member chorus of talented young actors and four on-stage musicians. Director’s note I have always dreamed of staging Sophocles’ Antigone at Epidaurus. It may sound rather strange, but my choice had less to do with the character of Antigone herself than with the figure of King Creon. Antigone, as we know, is the heroine of the play. She stands up to the authoritarian power of the king. She puts forward her own ideas about what should happen. Her strength and resistance to authority are admirable. But don’t we live in a society today where it is a simple matter for anyone to play the heroine or the hero, to speak and act according to their own standards? Perhaps we often forget that Creon’s mission as king is to defend the state and its laws? I think it’s important to look at the king and his arguments, which are so well-articulated by Sophocles in his tragedy. As the Greek people are well aware, democracy is hard-won over centuries, founded on individual freedoms as well as obligations. In Antigone, it is Creon who defends this system of government. Even if he ultimately takes the wrong path, even if he proves unable to rise to the occasion in the way that democracy requires in order to function, it is worth examining Sophocles’ arguments more closely, focusing on his character. In any event, I am incredibly happy to have the opportunity to delve into the complexities of Antigone and the line of reasoning put forward by the tragic poet with a cast of Greek actors at Epidaurus. Ulrich Rasche Information Summer Tour - 27/06/2025 21:00Epidaurus Ancient TheatreBUY TICKETS - 28/06/2025 21:00Epidaurus Ancient TheatreBUY TICKETS - 29/06/2025 21:00Epidaurus Ancient TheatreBUY TICKETS VIP €55 • ZONE Α΄ €50 • ZONE Β΄ €30/ SCHOOL STUDENTS (UP TO 18 Y.O.) €13/OVER 65Y. €22/ GROUPS €22 • UPPER TIER €25, €20, €15/ Restricted view€10, GROUPS €15 • UNEMPLOYED €5 •UPPER TIER €5 (FREE ENTRANCE FOR MEMBERS OF THE GREEK ACTORS UNION/THEATROLOGISTS)/RESIDENTS OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF LYGOURIO(Friday) €5) •DISABLED €5 Ticket information and purchase for the performances at the Epidaurus Ancient Theatre: www.more.com * Press photos by Andreas Simopoulos * The actress Kitty Paitazoglou will not be participating in the production of Antigone, directed by Ulrich Rasche, which will take place on June 27, 28, and 29 at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus. The Athens Epidaurus Festival and The National Theatre of Greece sincerely thank her for the excellent collaboration. The character of Ismene will be approached dramaturgically by the current artistic team. Co-production NATIONAL THEATRE OF GREECE – ATHENS EPIDAURUS FESTIVAL With Greek and English surtitles creation team - Nikos A. Panagiotopoulos Translation - Ulrich Rasche Director & set designer - Antigone Akgün Dramaturg - Alfred Brooks Music, sound design - Angelos Mentis Costume design - Eleftheria Deko Lighting design - Yannik Stöbener Chorus training and direction - David Moser Assistant director - Lukas Kötz Assistant set designer - Erie Kyrgia Production dramaturg - Melina Peonidou Music coach - Thomais Triantafyllidou Directing assistant - Evangelos Agatsas Set design assistant - Giannis Arapis Composition assistant - Stavroula Papapostolou Costume design assistant - Nasia Lazou Lighting design assistant - Olga Faleichyk Makeup design - Konstantinos Koliousis Hair design


--- [Antigone - Athens Epidaurus Festival] ---
No content


--- [Premiere of the Anniversary Epidaurus Festival with Ulrich Rasche's ...] ---
This year, the Epidaurus Festival welcomed theater lovers earlier than in previous years, hosting for a three-day period (June 27–29) the collaboration between the National Theatre of Greece and the German director Ulrich Rasche. This was the second time the director presented his work on ancient tragedy at the Argolic theater, following the 2022 production of Aeschylus’s “Agamemnon,” a co-production of the Athens Epidaurus Festival and the Residenztheater of Munich. In a three-day series of performances that attracted public interest but also sparked varied reactions, Ulrich Rasche engaged with the dialectic of one of Sophocles’ masterpieces, “Antigone.” By placing the Chorus members and actors on a continuously rotating stage, he highlighted the inevitability of Fate and attempted (often without avoiding monotony) to impart a rhythm to the movements and delivery of the lines that immersed the audience directly into the two opposing forces of the play: Creon and Antigone. The scenographic approach proposed by Rasche, with the rotating platform, can be as complex and demanding for the actor as it is supportive of the vision of a director who, even though he makes cuts to roles and parts of the text (Ismene is notably absent, and there lies an “opening”—a challenge for future “readers” and “adapters” of the play), ultimately aims not at taking a political stance on stage but at revealing the positions of the characters involved. This is precisely what the adaptation by the German director achieved in many respects, having as a valuable ally the language of Sophocles as restructured through the unparalleled translation of Nikos A. Panagiotopoulos. Despite the justified reservations one might have about the project, on the one hand, the uniqueness of the spectacle cannot be overlooked (since the scenography was specially adapted for the Epidaurus venue), and on the other hand, the willingness of the actors and Chorus members to serve such a demanding theatrical form is noteworthy. In Rasche’s version of Sophocles’ masterpiece, the Chorus members consist of young men (instead of the usual elderly figures as in the original dramaturgy), which carries political connotations and reflects today’s warlike climate where the young citizen-soldier is called to survive. We should definitely highlight the voice of Dimitris Kapouranis as Haemon, who manages to break free from the generally detached tone of the performances during his confrontation with Giorgos Gallos’s Creon. Similarly, the performance of Filareti Komninou as Tiresias stands out tonally (providing temporary relief to the audience). It recalled theater of past eras—a tragedy that returns to Dionysian intensity and ecstasis, rather than the precise formalism of auteur directors like Rasche. One of the “rare” moments for the theater of Epidaurus (both scenographically and conceptually), whose intellectual approach, while highlighting the timeless dialectical conflicts of the two central characters, often prevented it from connecting with the deeper emotions of the audience. ΙΝFO Translation Nikos A. Panagiotopoulos Dramaturgy Antigone Akgün Direction—Set design Ulrich Rasche Music composition—Sound design Alfred Brooks Costume design Angelos Mentis Lighting design Eleftheria Deko Chorus training and guidance Yannik Stöbener Assistant director David Moser Set design assistant Lukas Kötz Dramaturg for the performance Eri Kyrgia Music teacher Melina Peonidou Assistant to the director Thomais Triantafyllidou Assistant to the set designer Evangelos Agatsas Assistant to the composer Giannis Arapis Assistant to the lighting designer Nasia Lazou Cast Giorgos Gallos Creon, Dimitris Kapouranis Haemon, Kora Karvouni Antigone, Filareti Komninou Tiresias, Thanos Tokakis Guard Chorus Vassilis Boutsikos, Stratis Chatzistamatiou, Dimitris Kapouranis, Marios Kritikopoulos, Ioannis Mpastas, Giorgis Partalidis, Thanasis Raftopoulos, Gal Rompissa, Giannis Tsoumarakis, Giorgos Ziakas Live music performance Nefeli Stamatogiannopoulou double bass, Haris Pazaroulas double bass Nikos Papavranoussis percussion Evangelia Stavrou percussion


--- [Antigone - alexanderraptotasios] ---
ALEXANDER RAPTOTASIOS Antigone by Sophocles Athens & Epidaurus Festival 2022 Peiraios 260 (Stage H') Produced by the Athens & Epidaurus Festival and funded by the European Funding Program Horizons and VAST (Values Across Space & Time). A performance about the relationship between the polis (and its citizens) and power, a timeless question posed by this tragedy. Focusing on the pivotal role of the media in shaping public opinion, the play is set inside a government-sponsored television studio, where all political debates and decisions take place in real time. The Chorus of Elders is re-imagined as a council of politicians representing various aspects of hegemonic discourse, watching, always live, the brutal conflict between secular and moral law. Translated by Nikos A. Panagiotopoulos Directing / adaptation - Alexander Raptotasios Set and lighting design Marco Turcich Dramaturgy Or Benezra-Segal Costume design – Props Marie Cecile Inglesi Music George Poulios Sound design Jeph Vagner Speech coach Nikos Panagiotopoulos Movement Korina Kokkali Assistant to the director Thomais Triantafyllidou Assistant to the set and lighting designer Mariza Soulioti Movement assistant Marilena Sitaropoulou Make-up artist Elizabeth Petrou Graphics - Video Design Christos Magganas Live filming by Green Screen Studio Production manager Ifigenia Gianniou Cast Gerasimos Skiadaresis (Creon), Kitty Paitazoglou (Antigone), Eleni Karagiorgi (Eurydice), Christina Dalamanga (Ismene), Foivos Papakostas (Aemon), Vicky Kyriakoulakou (Tiresias), Lambros Grammatikos (Sentry, Messenger) Chorus Danae Loukaki (Coryphaeus), Giorgos Biniaris, Deborah Odong, Vasilis Kalfakis, Dinos Gelameris, Negros tou Moria, Zoe Drakopoulou
