=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[A Salute to Disney's Halloween Television Specials]
Oct 19, 2009 — This TV special was actually an edited version of 1956 "Disneyland" episode "Our Unsung Villains." Get 4 Disney Movies for $1.99 Each, Free ...
URL: https://dvdizzy.com/disneyhalloween.html

[Our Unsung Villains - Wikipedia]
" Our Unsung Villains " is a 1956 episode of Disneyland which originally aired on ABC on February 15, 1956. [1] It was repeated on June 10, 1960.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Unsung_Villains

[The Wonderful World of Disney (TV Series 1954]
Our Unsung Villains. 0%. February 15, 1956 • 1h. 2x20. "Our Unsung Villains" is a 1956 episode of Walt Disney anthology television series. The program has Walt ...
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/4231-walt-disney-s-wonderful-world-of-color/episodes?credit_id=52575fb1760ee36aaa2e0599&person_id=4bc88c40017a3c122d0032dd

[Walt Disney's "Our Unsung Villains" Season 2 Ep 20 (Edited)]
From Season 2 of Walt Disney's Disneyland Anthology program we have Episode 20: Our Unsung Villains which aired on February 15th, 1956. The Slave in the Magic Mirror (voiced by Hans Conried) hosts ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MzY-9i-qkz8

[Our Unsung Villains | Disney Wiki | Fandom]
The program has Walt Disney handing over the hosting duties to the Magic Mirror, who promptly decides to do a show devoted to the Disney villains. Hans Conried plays the role of the Magic Mirror and would reprise the role in many Disney television specials, including the 1977 follow-up Disney's Greatest Villains.
URL: https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Our_Unsung_Villains


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [A Salute to Disney's Halloween Television Specials] ---
By Aaron Willcott The days are getting shorter, and the harvest is upon us. It's the time of year when children dress up and go knocking on doors in the hopes of bringing home overflowing bags of candy. Halloween is looming upon us, and everyone has traditions they enjoy looking forward to. Whether it is putting together a costume, decorating the house in cobwebs and skeletons, or handing out candy to excited and innocent trick-or-treaters, there is so much fun to be had during this holiday...and not just in frightful scares. As this All Hallow's Eve approaches, I find myself remembering the old TV specials that used to air on The Disney Channel when I was a kid. Had it not been for the spooky holiday programming, I might never have seen The Legend of Sleepy Hollow (1949), Lonesome Ghosts (1937), and Trick or Treat (1952). Those childhood connections with familiar Disney characters are tough for today's youth to make. Nowadays, children must actively seek out expensive DVDs (some of which are out-of-print) in order to even see parts of these old Disney specials. Gone are the days when you could look forward to the yearly tradition of these Disney television programs as a family because lest we forget... most of these cartoons were seen by our parents when they were kids and thus offered nostalgia for them while pure happy entertainment for us kids. This Halloween season, I invite readers to join me on a trip down memory lane. Enjoy reliving these old Disney Halloween made-for-TV movies and specials all over again. And if it is your first time hearing about these programs, then I hope you'll appreciate some of the Halloween traditions I grew up with. THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW (1955) The Legend of Sleepy Hollow was originally released as part of the 1949 feature film The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad. In this episode of the anthology series (first aired October 26, 1955), Walt Disney introduces us to the life of Washington Irving, the author of the Sleepy Hollow tale. "Most of us are well acquainted with Ichabod Crane and the legend of Sleepy Hollow," Walt says, "a story which has entertained and delighted readers for a century and a half. But some of us may be less familiar with the man who created the legend of Sleepy Hollow and whose literary genius brought him international recognition as America's first professional man of letters." So before hearing Bing Crosby narrate for us the story of Sleepy Hollow, we are given a brief biography of Washington Irving. Both the Irving biography and the Sleepy Hollow short are vintage Disney at its wholesome best. Simultaneously entertaining and educational, this program would be aired several times throughout the following decades on the anthology series and would also air on The Disney Channel for several years around the Halloween season. OUR UNSUNG VILLAINS (1956) and DISNEY'S GREATEST VILLAINS (1977) Disney's Greatest Villains originally aired on the anthology series on May 5, 1977. This TV special was actually an edited version of 1956 "Disneyland" episode "Our Unsung Villains." Hosted by the Magic Mirror, this is a compilation of Disney films highlighting the most "misjudged" character... the villain. As the Magic Mirror states, "He's the fellow who does his best to give you his worst." After all, without the villains who would need a hero? The Magic Mirror himself was portrayed by Hans Conried, the voice of Captain Hook, which only adds to the familiar nostalgia in this TV show. Narrating the show, Conried treats us to a series of dark or spooky segments including The Three Little Wolves (1936) and The Wicked Queen's Transformation into the Old Hag from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937). Both Disney's Greatest Villains and "Our Unsung Villains" would air several times throughout the anthology series' run and also on The Disney Channel at Halloweentime. ALL ABOUT MAGIC (1957) "All About Magic" is one of those really fun Walt-era "Disneyland" anthology episodes. The program starts by having Walt take us down into the studio basement where all the magical props are displayed for our viewing, including a headless princess who comes to life, and a magic top hat that releases balloons, a rabbit and a white dove... all to the magic words "Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo". Walt then calls upon the slave in the Magic Mirror (played again by Hans Conried) to take over as host of the program. The result is a compilation of magical themed programming including the Sorcerer's Apprentice segment from Fantasia (1940). While "All About Magic" was not originally intended to be a Halloween episode (it premiered in January of 1957), it manages to be spooky enough to have become another annual Halloween season staple on the anthology series and The Disney Channel. HALLOWEEN HALL O' FAME (1977) Halloween Hall O' Fame is not just your typical compilation program. A lot more thought and production work went into this. The basis of the special is that a night watchman (played hilariously by Jonathan Winters) is making the rounds at the Disney Studios. He enters the prop department where a crystal ball housing the spirit of John O'Lantern (nicknamed "Jack O' Lantern" and also played by Winters) comes to life and co-hosts the show as the two argue about the lore behind the Halloween holiday. Clips from spooky shorts like Trick or Treat and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow are shown. Disney's makeup department was still top of the line during the 1970s and 1980s. The same team that turned Dean Jones into the Shaggy D.A. and Bill Cosby into the devilishly scary Barney Satin was able to transform Jonathan Winters into Jack O' Lantern. The script is smart and Winters is at his best. At one point, Jack says something like, "The only thing scary about Halloween these days is the cavities the kids are going to get from eatin' all that candy." Halloween Hall O' Fame also has somewhat of a storyline tying all of the clips together, making this one very fun and engaging special. Like "All About Magic", this compilation became another Halloween TV fixture, airing annually on The Disney Channel. CHILD OF GLASS (1978) Child of Glass is a terrific made-for-TV movie. A boy named Alexander Ainsworth (the late Steve Shaw) and his family move into an old Southern mansion. Not long after, Alexander is visited by the spirit of a young girl (Olivia Barash) who claims to be Inez Dumaine, a girl who died in 1862. She tells him that he has until midnight on Halloween to solve a riddle that will help unlock the secrets of how Inez died. If he doesn't, he will be haunted for the rest of his life. Filmed on location in Danville, Kentucky, Child of Glass has an authentic feel to it. It debuted as a 2-hour installment of the anthology series, then called "The Wonderful World of Disney", on May 14, 1978. It also aired several times on The Disney Channel, particularly around Halloween. It is a wonderfully spooky movie that is never truly scary despite the eerie plot. The blue images of the ghosts, the riddle told in rhyme, and the chiming tune of "Fr�re Jacques" are some of the most memorable magical moments in this sorely missed Disney treat. DISNEY'S HALLOWEEN TREAT (1982) Disney's Halloween Treat was another compilation program created for the anthology series (when the title was shortened to just "Walt Disney"). This one first aired on October 30, 1982 and is hosted by a talking pumpkin. After an eerie opening title song ("Disney's Halloween Treat" written by John Debney with lyrics by Galen Brandt) we are shown clips of Disney animation. Scenes such as the wizards duel from The Sword in the Stone (1963), the Night on Bald Mountain sequence from Fantasia, and the Legend of Sleepy Hollow from The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad are presented with tons of animated clips and shorts throughout. A DISNEY HALLOWEEN (1983) This special aired on October 1, 1983, just six months after The Disney Channel debuted. A Disney Halloween aired almost every year thereafter and thus has been in the memories of many children who grew up in the '80s and '90s. This is basically an expanded version of Disney's Halloween Treat without the pumpkin host. After the same eerie opening song, we are shown clips of Disney animation hosted by our friend, the Magic Mirror (using re-edited vintage footage of Hans Conried). Running an hour and a half, this compilation special is the quintessential Halloween program offering both Disney villains and Halloween themed cartoons in the Disney library. In 1992, a version of this program aired alongside a television showing of Tim Burton's little seen live-action short film, Frankenweenie (1984), soon to be adapted into a stop-motion feature. MR. BOOGEDY (1986) Mr. Boogedy is one of those legendary movies that everyone remembers, but no one can seem to find a copy of. It has been years since it last aired on television, and as of this writing there has never been an official VHS/Laserdisc/DVD release here in the United States (though avid collectors and eBay watchers will know that a PAL VHS was available briefly in Australia). The story follows the Davis family who move into an old house in Lucifer Falls. What they don't expect is that their new house is haunted by a ghost named Mr. Boogedy and holds the key to a 200-year-old mystery involving a woman and her son trapped in another dimension. During the first year of "The Disney Sunday Movie" anthology series, Disney relied heavily on a number of unsold TV show pilots to fill the Sunday evening anthology time slots (e.g. 2� Dads, I-Man, Casebusters, My Town, etc.). The 1-hour Mr. Boogedy was also made as a pilot for a series that never got picked up. It premiered on April 20, 1986. Its reception led not only to several subsequent seasonal airings, but also a two-hour sequel. BRIDE OF BOOGEDY (1987) A direct sequel to the 1986 surprise hit pilot-turned-movie Mr. Boogedy, Bride of Boogedy continues the story of the ghost from Lucifer Falls who still disrupts the Davis Family. Even though he was defeated, Mr. Boogedy makes it back when he puts Mr. Davis under his spell to retrieve his lost magical cloak from a secret doorway in their house. Upon getting his powers back, Boogedy terrorizes the town and tries to take Mrs. Davis as his bride (cleverly spoofing Elsa Lanchester's look in 1935's The Bride of Frankenstein). Bride of Boogedy originally aired on April 12, 1987. Though no such series was ever made from this movie and its pilot predecessor, Bride would also air around Halloween time for years to come. The town-square of Lucifer Falls was shot on the still standing set from the 1983 theatrical film Something Wicked This Way Comes. Bride of Boogedy has also never had a home video release here in the United States, but collectors can tell you that a PAL VHS was released in Europe. DISNEY'S DTV MONSTER HITS (1987) Disney's DTV was original programming exclusively made for The Disney Channel to air between shows and movies. Disney's take on the then-thriving MTV music video, the first of these aired on May 5, 1984. The concept for the series was basically to take a hit song and set Disney clips to the music. Anything in the Disney library was fair game, and the result was a memorable and fun interlude between Disney Channel programs. On October 30, 1987, Disney created an hour long DTV Halloween special to air on NBC. Hosted by the Magic Mirror (this time played by Ferris Bueller alum Jeffrey Jones), Disney's DTV Monster Hits included music videos for such Halloween favorites as Michael Jackson's "Thriller", Ray Parker, Jr.'s "Ghostbusters", and Bobby "Boris" Pickett's "Monster Mash". While the special never aired again in its entirety to my knowledge, Disney Channel would air the individual videos around Halloween for years to come. While the tradition of original Halloween programming on Disney Channel has continued, these programs from my childhood seem to be forgotten. More recent creations like the Halloweentown series, Tower of Terror (1997), the Twitches movies, and other Disney Channel programming are not without merit. Perhaps next year they can be explored in detail. Until then, however, I'll sit back and enjoy my nostalgic childhood memories of Disney's Halloween TV traditions. Here's hoping that the folks at the studio will make these childhood memories of mine available for today's generation of children (young and old) to enjoy. This trick-or-treater wishes everyone a safe and Happy Halloween! About the Author: Aaron Willcott has a Master's degree in Physician Assistant Studies and is a certified PA practicing in Northeast Kansas. An avid movie buff, Aaron has also been studying film since early high school. Filling up his electives with film classes, working through college at a video store, watching every DVD special feature, and attending as many film festivals and lectures as possible Aaron has become a typical amateur film critic. In his free time, he likes to research the production of old films, particularly live-action Disney ones. Aaron is currently working on several book ideas including All Things Westworld and The Story of Amblimation.


--- [Our Unsung Villains - Wikipedia] ---
"Our Unsung Villains" is a 1956 episode of Disneyland which originally aired on ABC on February 15, 1956. It was repeated on June 10, 1960.


--- [The Wonderful World of Disney (TV Series 1954] ---
Walt Disney as Self - Host Episodes 363 Dateline: Disneyland We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Disneyland Story Walt Disney introduces the show that will be a Sunday-night tradition for over 40 years, Disneyland. In this episode, he introduces upcoming season previews, plus movies that are to be coming out soon. The second half of the show is all about Mickey Mouse, Disney's first creation. Read MoreAlice in Wonderland [1951] The 1951 Walt Disney animated film is the basis of this episode. Read MorePrairie/Seal Island James Algar explores the lives of animal habitats as captured on film. The next portion is the 1948 True-Life Disney movie, Seal Island with Winston Hibler narrating about the habitat of the fur seal. Read MoreThe Donald Duck Story It's all about Donald Duck here as his career is highlighted. Read MoreSo Dear to My Heart The 1949 Disney movie is highlighted in this episode. Jeremiah is a young boy who owns a black lamb named Danny the Ram. Jeremiah wants to enter Danny into the spring fair, not out of pride for his pet but for the material gain of winning a ribbon. But alas, the fleece-bearer flees from home, leaving Jeremiah devastated. Jeremiah prays to God asking to be reunited with his runaway ram. In return, he promises to love Danny forever, and forsake any thoughts of using him to win ribbons. Read MoreA Story of Dogs Walt Disney takes us behind the scenes on the making of his new animated feature Lady & the Tramp. Read MoreOperation Undersea This is a look into the making of the theatrical feature 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Read MoreDavy Crockett: Indian Fighter This is the first of five stories of the legendary Davy Crockett. In it, Davy and his friend Georgie Russel go off to fight the hostile Creek Indians. Read MoreA Present for Donald In this Christmas episode, Donald Duck gets a movie projector and a film reel of a penguin who wants to be free of the frozen climate. Read MoreBeaver Valley/Cameras in Africa In teh first part, Walt Disney presents a famous animal photographer named Alfred G. Milotte, who presents clips of his African trip that has stunning stories about the African elephant and the lion. The second part deals with the beaver habitat as displayed in the 1948 True-Life Adventure film, Beaver Valley. Read MoreTreasure Island [1950] (1) Young Jim Hawkins is caught up with the pirate Long John Silver in search of the buried treasure of the buccaneer Captain Flint, in this adaptation of the classic novel by Robert Louis Stevenson. Read MoreTreasure Island [1950] (2) Young Jim Hawkins is caught up with the pirate Long John Silver in search of the buried treasure of the buccaneer Captain Flint, in this adaptation of the classic novel by Robert Louis Stevenson. Read MoreMonsters of the Deep Walt Disney takes us into the world of the sea with its many creatures. Read MoreDavy Crockett: Goes to Congress In the Second episode of the Davy Crockett trilogy, Davy, George and their families settle in Tennessee. Davy goes to town to file his claim, and he gets into it with a bully named Big Foot Mason. When Mason is beaten, the judge asks Davy to be the new lawman. Read MoreThe Wind in the Willows Kenneth Grahame is the subject of this episode as we take a look at the short film of ""The Wind and the Willows"", as seen in the movie The Reluctant Dragon from 1941. Read MoreA Progress Report/Nature's Half Acre The first half of this epsiode is dedicated to the construction of the new Disneyland theme park in Anaheim. Read MoreCalvacade of Songs Walt Disney shows us the importance of music in motion pictures. We also get a behind the scenes peek at the music made for the forthcoming movie Lady and the Tramp Read MoreDavy Crockett: At the Alamo The final chapter of the Davy Crockett trilogy begins when Davy and George make friends with a cheating gambler named Thimblerig. It is Thimblerig that gets Davy and George to go to Texas to fight the Mexicans at the Alamo, an ill-fated mistake for Davy. Read MoreFrom Aesop to Hans Christian Andersen Classic storytelling comes to life with Disney animation. Read MoreMan in Space "Man in Space" is an episode of Disneyland which originally aired on March 9, 1955. It was directed by Disney animator Ward Kimball. Later, it was edited into a featurette to play in theaters, accompanying Davy Crockett and the River Pirates. This Disneyland episode, was narrated partly by Kimball and also by such famed scientists as Dr. Willy Ley, Dr. Heinz Haber, Dr. Wernher von Braun and Dick Tufeld of Lost in Space fame. The show talks briefly about the lighthearted history of rockets and is followed by discussions of satellites, a practical look at what spacemen will have to face in a rocket and a rocket takeoff into space. An adaptation of the episode was published by Dell as Four Color #716 in 1956, scripted by Don R. Christensen with art by Tony Sgroi. It was actually a "novelization" in comic book form of two Walt Disney television programs, "Man in Space" and "Tomorrow the Moon". Also found as a 1956 UK reprint as "A World Distributors Movie Classic" and a 1959 combined reprint with the other 2 Dell Comics adaptations of "Man in Space" films as "Walt Disney's Man in Space". Read MoreThe Pre-Opening Report from Disneyland The big day of the grand opening of Disneyland is almost here, and Walt Disney is making plans to ensure that the park will be safe and ready for its first guests on July 17, 1955. Read MoreDumbo [1941] This is an airing of the beloved 1941 animated feature, edited to run in the allotted time slot. Mrs. Jumbo, a circus elephant receives a baby with large ears. The other elephants ostracize him, and his mother is locked up for attacking a heckling human. As Dumbo, the mocking nickname for the baby elephant given to him, finds himself without any friends, an ambitious mouse named Timothy befriends him and helps him overcome his problem. Read MoreBehind the True-Life Cameras, Olympic Elk James Algar takes us behind the scenes of a True-Life adventure in The Everglades and in a desert with Bob Crandall. Read MoreJiminy Cricket Presents Bongo A little circus bear runs away and finds more of his own kind. Rejected at first, he soon becomes a hero after standing up to a bully named Lumpjaw. This is actually the first half of the animated film, Fun and Fancy Free (1947) Read MorePeople and Places: Tiburon, Sardinia, Morocco/Icebreakers This episode is from the People and Places theatrical series filmed by William N. Smith about his adventures in these exotic places. Read MoreThe Adventures of Mickey Mouse Walt looks at the career of Mickey Mouse through a collection of his short cartoons. Read MoreThe Story of the Silly Symphony This compilation of several of Disney's ""Silly Symphonies,"" a series of short cartoons from the 1930s has Walt telling viewers about the respective origins of many of the stories. Read MoreThe Legend of Sleepy Hollow [1948] Features The Legend of Sleepy Hollow (1949), originally from The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad (1949). Read MoreThe Story of Robin Hood: Part 1 The Story of Robin Hood and His Merrie Men (1952) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreThe Story of Robin Hood: Part 2 The Story of Robin Hood and His Merrie Men (1952) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreDavy Crockett: The Keelboat Race The fourth of five programs about Davy Crockett involves Davy and Georgie ending a particularly successful season of trapping and hunting with the hopes of easy sales, only for such hopes to be dashed by the self-proclaimed "King of the River", Mike Fink, and a band of renegade Indians that have been notorious for attacking passing boats. Read MoreThe Story of the Animated Drawing The first of three shows based on Disney's ""Art of Animation"" book. Walt Disney explores the history of Animation from primitive cave drawings, to Windsor McKay's ""Gertie the Dinosaur"" and Pat Sullivan's Felix the Cat, up to Fantasia. Two cartoons are featured: The Skeleton Dance (1929) and the Nutcraker Suite segmest from Fantasia. This episode is avalible on the ""Behind the Scenes at Walt Disney Studios"" 2-disc DVD. Read MoreThe Goofy Success Story Goofy's rise to stardom is featured here, starting with a look at Hollywood, where talent scouts seek out the next superstar. They find Goofy in a movie theater watching a Mickey Mouse cartoon and laughing at it, and he is "discovered". And so begins the career of an actor with a unique laugh. Read MoreDavy Crockett: The River Pirates The final Davy Crockett story (the second ""Legend"" tale) has Davy and ex-foe Mike Fink on the same side, fighting some nasty pirates who are passing themselves off as Indians in order to start a war. This episode is avalible as part of a 2-disc DVD set. Read MoreMan and the Moon This installment tells of many age-old legends and fantasies about the moon, upon which, at the time of this episode, man was still trying to land. Read MoreWhen Knighthood Was in Flower: Part 1 Sword and the Rose, The (1953) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreWhen Knighthood Was in Flower: Part 2 Sword and the Rose, The (1953) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreA Tribute to Joel Chandler Harris Walt looks at the history of Joel Chandler Harris, author of the Uncle Remus stories. Read MoreA Day in the Life of Donald Duck This episode follows the events of Donald Duck as he struggles through a typical day at the Disney Studio. Along the way, he meets Jimmie Dodd, Roy Williams, the Mouseketeers and the actor that does his voice, Clarence Nash. Read MoreSurvival in Nature We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Our Unsung Villains "Our Unsung Villains" is a 1956 episode of Walt Disney anthology television series. The program has Walt Disney handing over the hosting duties to the Magic Mirror, who promptly decides to do a show devoted to the Disney villains. Hans Conried plays the role of the Magic Mirror and would reprise the role in many Disney television specials, including the 1977 followup "Disney's Greatest Villains." In this program, the Magic Mirror only focuses on four villains, whereas he covers twelve in "Disney's Greatest Villains." Read MoreA Trip Thru Adventureland/Water Birds We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. On Vacation Walt Disney, who is on vacation, gives Jiminy Cricket a phone call to take over hosting duties for one TV episode while he is away. Jiminy decides to gather the other Disney stars together to help him out. Unfortunately, they, too, are on vacation, but how they are spending their respective vacations helps put the show together for him. Read MoreStormy, the Thoroughbred [1954] We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Goofy Sports Show Walt introduces the narrator, Spyrus Olympopolus, to demonstrate how the ancient sports practiced in foreign countries have evolved into the games of today. Spyros illustrates this using Goofy. Read MoreWhere Do the Stories Come From? Walt answers the often-asked question of just where the stories for his studio's cartoons come from, which is from practically anywhere. Read MoreBehind the Scenes with Fess Parker We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Antarctica: Past and Present Walt Disney hosts a look at his plans for a brand new documentary on Antarctica. Read MoreThe Great Cat Family Walt talks about the cat family, primarily focusing on lions and domestic cats. It is explained particularly on the cats' importance to ancient Egypt and how some people would respect them, and others would fear them as superstitious beings. Read MoreSearching for Nature's Mysteries Once again, Disneyland plays host to Winston Hibler, the familiar narrator (and sometimes writer/director) of Disney's ""True-Life Adventures"" short subject series. Hibler describes the various techniques used for making such up-close-and-personal nature documentaries as the then-upcoming Disney theatrical feature Secrets of Life, including the development of miniature lense and stroboscopic ""cold"" light. Highlights include a foray into a beehive and a visit to an ant colony, and a time-lapse-photography sequence of blossoming plant life to the tune of Maurice Ravel's ""Bolero"". Searching for Nature's Mysteries originally aired 2 months before the official November 20, 1956 release of Secrets of Life. Read MoreRob Roy: Part 1 Rob Roy, the Highland Rogue (1953) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreRob Roy: Part 2 Rob Roy, the Highland Rogue (1953) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreGoofy's Cavalcade of Sports We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Behind the Cameras at Lapland/The Alaskan Eskimo We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Plausible Impossible Walt explains a principle of his style of animation called ""the plausible impossible,"" in which things that cannot be done in reality can be done in animation if there is a plausible basis for it. He uses clips from several cartoons and features to demonstrate. Read MoreCameras in Samoa/The Holland Story We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Along the Oregon Trail Walt takes us on the famous Oregon Trail, a pathway from Kansas City to Oregon, where the settlers moved westward. And speaking of westward, We also go behind the scenes of the new Disny feature Westward Ho the Wagons! with the famous Fess Parker himself. Read MoreAt Home with Donald Duck It's Donald's birthday, and Huey, Dewey, and Louie are thrown a party by their uncle in honor of his own birthday! He treats the boys to special home screenings of his own movies on 8mm film reels, but they want to watch the Mickey Mouse and Goofy cartoons. Adding insult to injury, the boys would rather watch the Mickey Mouse Club on TV. Read MorePluto's Day We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Your Host, Donald Duck Donald Duck convinces Walt Disney to let him take over the hosting duties for one episode. Then he goes on to host an episode that he calls "The Duckland Four-In-One Show", where he goes through his own versions of the lands of Disneyland. Read MoreOur Friend, the Atom "Our Friend the Atom" is a 1957 episode of the television series Disneyland describing the benefits of atomic power. Read MoreAll About Magic Walt Disney explores the Basement of the Disney Studios to show us the art of magic with the help of the magic Mirror from Snow White. Read MoreTricks of Our Trade Walt explains the methods by which motion picture animation is made, using recreations of studio study sessions, clips from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Bambi, and Fantasia and some new footage of Mickey Mouse. Read MoreThe Crisler Story/Prowlers of the Everglades We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Man in Flight We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Adventure Story Goofy? An Adventure Story? That's the theme for today's episode. Read MoreDonald's Award Walt finds himself troubled by Donald Duck's constant outbursts; he then promises his feathered star a medal if an entire week passes without any complaints about his behavior. Read MoreDisneyland the Park/Pecos Bill Walt treats the audience to a tour of Disneyland, followed by the Pecos Bill segment of Melody Time (1948), which had been re-edited for television presentation. Read MorePeople of the Desert We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. More About the Silly Symphonies We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Yellowstone Story/Bear Country We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Liberty Story The first half of this story is an excerpt from the upcoming theatrical release ""Johnny Tremain."" The second half is an airing of the 1953 cartoon ""Ben and Me,"" in which a church mouse named Amos befriends Benjamin Franklin. Read MoreAntarctica: Operation Deep Freeze We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. 4th Anniversary Show Disneyland began its 4th season on the air with a gala, all-star ""special"", essentially designed to promote all 3 of Disney's network TV series. Pressured by his cartoon creations and the latest crop of Mouseketeers to tell them what's in store for the 1957-58 season, host Walt Disney offers tantalizing glimpses of the new weekly adventure show Zorro, the Disneyland miniseries The Saga of Andy Burnett (with Jerome Courtland in the title role) and the newest installments of such Mickey Mouse Club serials as ""Spin and Marty."" The remainder of the 4th Anniversary Show is an uncut presentation of the ""Peter and the Wolf"" segement from the 1946 animated feature Make Mine Music. Read MoreFour Fabulous Characters This is a look at four stories about Americans who became folk heroes: Casey Jones, a railroad engineer who is borderline fanatical on punctuality; Henry Coy and Grace Martin, a couple from two feuding families; Mighty Casey of the Mudville Nine; and Johnny Appleseed. Read MoreAdventure in Wildwood Heart Walt takes us to the Studio Morgue where great ideas stored here are used in future projects. He also talks with Winston Hibler about the making of another True-Life Fantasy feature called Perri. Read MoreThe Saga of Andy Burnett: Andy's Initiation We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Saga of Andy Burnett: Andy's First Chore We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Saga of Andy Burnett: Andy's Love Affair We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Duck for Hire Donald decides that he's had enough of show business and so decides to quit his job at Disney and leave, never to return. He goes to the Ajax Employment Agency looking for a job. But things don't go as planned. Read MoreAdventures in Fantasy To teach us about the world of fantasy in animation, inanimate objects come to life and introduce various cartoons. Read MoreTo the South Pole for Science We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Best Doggoned Dog in the World A show all about ""hero"" dogs. Walt Disney narrates the first segment. Dorothy McGuire gives us a preview of ""Old Yeller"" and the last half of the episode is the 1955 People and Places short Arizona Sheepdog. Read MoreHow to Relax Goofy reveals about mankind's eternal desire to relax. Ever since prehistoric times, when the caveman discovered his thumb, he unfortunately discovered work, too, which robbed him of his ability to relax. So Goofy attempts to demonstrate numerous methods for ensuring sufficient time for leisure. Read MoreMars and Beyond "Mars and Beyond" is an episode of Disneyland which aired on December 4, 1957. It was directed by Ward Kimball and narrated by Paul Frees. This episode discusses the possibility of life on other planets, especially Mars. It begins with an introduction of Walt Disney and his robot friend Garco, who provide a brief overview. It continues with an animated presentation about mankind seeking to understand the world in which he lives, first noticing patterns in the stars, and developing certain beliefs regarding the celestial bodies. Theories from scientists and philosophers are discussed, including Ptolemy's inaccurate, but formerly-accepted theories, as well as those of Copernicus. Life on other planets is considered, soon focusing on Mars. Ideas from science-fiction authors H.G. Wells and Edgar Rice Burroughs are brought to life with more colorful animation. Pulp science fiction comics of the time are parodied in the same straightforward tone as everything else. After this, the program adopts a serious tone as it profiles each of the planets in the solar system, from the perspective of what would happen to a man on them. The program claims that whereas most of the planets are either too cold or too hot for life as we know it, life on Mars could almost be normal, something that is of increasing importance for the future. Dr. E.C. Slipher then discusses the Red Planet and the possibility that life is already there. More animation speculates what the conditions on Mars might be like. This section is filled with striking, inventive and atypical Disney animation. Read MoreThe Horse of the West The story of The Bay Lady, a quarter horse born on Rex Allen's ranch. The Bay Lady is the favorite filly of Elena Vasquez until the young horse is accidentally shipped from the ranch to be sold at an auction. Read MoreFaraway Places: High, Hot and Wet We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Saludos Amigos We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Donald's Weekend Walt invites the audience to spend a weekend with Donald Duck. Read MoreThe Littlest Outlaw: Part 1 Littlest Outlaw, The (1955) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Read MoreThe Littlest Outlaw: Part 2 Littlest Outlaw, The (1955) re-edited into a two-part television presentation Read MoreThe Saga of Andy Burnett: The Land of Enemies We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Saga of Andy Burnett: White Man's Medicine We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Saga of Andy Burnett: The Big Council We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Magic and Music The Slave in the Magic Mirror returns to host this look at one of his favorite subjects: the magic of music. Read MoreAn Adventure in the Magic Kingdom Tinker Bell takes us on a tour of Disneyland with her pixie dust. Read MoreFour Tales of a Mouse We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. An Adventure in Art Walt talks about how art has many different visions. Read MoreMagic Highway U.S.A. The theme of this is the significance of the American highway, featuring the history of motoring, which explains that to drive the first cars was quite an adventure in itself, due to awful roads (which back then were not much more than rutted wagon paths) and the scarcity of fuel supplies and spare parts, not to mention the lack of useful maps and signposts, resulting in short drives turning into day-long affairs. Read MoreThe Nine Lives of Elfago Baca Wherever this man went--there was trouble. Death stalked him at every turn. Elfego Baca is "The man who couldn't be killed!" Incredible...but every astounding incident actually happened. Read MoreThe Pigeon That Worked a Miracle This is a story of a young boy who raises pigeons. This boy can't walk and is in a wheelchair. One day, the life of one of the pigeons was in jeopardy from a cat and the boy shows his courage and loyalty by getting up from his wheelchair and walking to save the pigeon's life. Read MoreFour Down and Five Lives to Go We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Rusty and the Falcon We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter Texas John Slaughter arrives in the town of Friotown and soon finds himself attacked by two gunmen, who he is forced to kill in self-defense. It turns out that the outlaws thought Slaughter was Texas Ranger Ben Jenkins. Impressed with Slaughter's gun-handling skills, the Rangers offer him a position, but he turns them down, as he wants to set up a cattle ranch. However, his plans are put on hold by the actions of a murderous outlaw gang leader named Frank Davis. Read MoreHis Majesty, King of the Beasts We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Ambush at Laredo Texas John Slaughter, who has now joined the Texas Rangers, has managed to bring in the last members of Frank Davis' outlaw gang. Davis, who has been let out on bail, flees to Laredo. Slaughter and Ranger Ben Jenkins arrive in Laredo to arrest him, only to find out that he has gathered the bosses of five other outlaw gangs and is planning to start a new criminal empire with himself as the head. Read MoreJohnny Tremain (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Johnny Tremain (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Elfago Baca: Lawman or Gunman We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Elfago Baca: Law and Order, Incorporated We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. From All of Us to All of You Jiminy Cricket, the show's special Christmas guest, tells viewers that he has arranged a visit to the North Pole to see Santa's Workshop (as seen in a classic short cartoon). The show continues with clips from various short cartoons and features. Read MoreTexas John Slaughter: Killers from Kansas We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Noik We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Showdown at Sandoval We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Peter Tchaikovsky Story The story of young Tchaikovsky through the premiere of his "Sleeping Beauty" ballet. Read MoreElfago Baca: Attorney at Law We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Duck Flies Coop When Walt learns via telegram that Donald Duck is quitting, he sends the studio publicity department to give the duck a taste of his own medicine. Read MoreElfago Baca: The Griswold Murder Elfego defends a rancher who has been unjustly accused of murder. It is up to Elfego to track down the real murderer, and in doing so, he wins his first case in Santa Fe. Read MoreThe Adventures of Chip 'N Dale Walt has left a message on a tape recorder on his desk, explaining that because he is unable to be there personally, he arranged for guest hosts - Chip 'n' Dale to fill in. The two chipmunks have a book with them filled with stories of their exploits. Read MoreTexas John Slaughter: The Man from Bitter Creek We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Highway to Trouble We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: The Slaughter Trail We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Wetback Hound Originally released as a 20-minute short subject in 1957, Disney's Oscar-winning The Wetback Hound was expanded to 48 minutes for this Walt Disney Presents TV presentation. The titular hound is Paco, descended from a long and distinguished line of lion-hunting dogs. But much to the dismay of his master, a Mexican barber, Paco is all too easily distracted by other animals whenever he goes out on a hunt. Cowboy star Rex Allen provides the folksy narration for this gentle, laid-back nature study. The ""new"" footage of The Wetback Hound was trimmed for its 1962 rebroadcast to accommodate a lenghty promo for the upcoming Disney theatrical feature Big Red; 4 years later, the same thing happened so that Disney could advertise its new release Lt. Robin Crusoe, U.S.N Read MoreI Captured the King of the Leprechauns Behind the scenes of Darby O'Gill and the Little People. Read MoreEpisode 27 We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Moochie of the Little League: A Diamond Is a Boy's Best Friend Moochie's trying to make up for being "Small Fry" by putting his whole heart into catching for his Little League Team. He even finds a new field for his league when the old one's destroyed. He even ropes his best friend's dad into the league. But when Moochie might make the All Star team, the family's vacation plans might be ruined. Read MoreMoochie of the Little League: Wrong Way Moochie With a new baseball field and the possibility to be on the All-Star game, Moochie's parents has other plans--a vacation trip. Read MoreKillers of the High Country We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Birth of the Swamp Fox One of producer Walt Disney's more blatant efforts to duplicate the success of his early TV miniseries Davy Crockett, the 8-part Swamp Fox featured another flamboyant frontiersman hero who wore coonskin-style headgear and whose adventures were introduced with a catchy, memorable theme song. Based on a book by Dr. Robert D. Bass, The Swamp Fox stars Leslie Nielsen as real-life American patriot Francis Marion, a wealthy landowner who during the Revolutionary War led a hardy band of guerilla fighters against the Redcoats and pro-British tories in his native South Carolina. The villain of the piece (at least in the first few episodes) was another actual historical figure, the ruthless Banastre Tarleton (John Sutton), an officer in the British Green Dragoons (Marion and Tarleton later served as the models for the hero and villain, respectively, of the 1999 Mel Gibson film Patriot). In the first episode, Marion is prevailed upon by his friends and neighbors to help free South Carolina from t Read MoreSwamp Fox: Brother Against Brother Under the command of Colonel Tarleton of the Green Dragoon cavalry, Francis Marion strives to free South Carolina from the British. Read MorePerilous Assignment This episode looks at many of the far-off locations where Disney's crew have gone. Read MoreElfago Baca: Move Along, Mustangers We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Elfago Baca: Mustang Man, Mustang Maid We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Storm Called Maria We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: The Robber Stallion We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Wild Horse Revenge Slaughter continues trying to capture a wild mustang, while being opposed by a local rancher. Read MoreTexas John Slaughter: Range War at Tombstone We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Swamp Fox: Tory Vengeance Young Gabe returns home, now a lieutenant in the Continental Army. He's captured by Tory Colonel Townes who has him whipped. Gabe still refuses to reveal the location of the Swamp Fox's hideout, even when facing a firing squad. Read MoreSwamp Fox: Day of Reckoning The War for American Independence takes second place for Colonel Marion as he goes on a personal quest for vengeance against the Loyalists responsible for his nephew's murder...a quest that may end up destroying him as well. Read MoreSwamp Fox: Redcoat Strategy Marion captures a British colonel, and later battles Colonel Tarleton, who has orders to capture the Swamp Fox or else. Tarleton invades the Marion home, but the servants manage to outwit him. Read MoreSwamp Fox: A Case of Treason We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Wild Burro of the West We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Two Happy Amigos We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Desperado from Tombstone We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Apache Friendship We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Kentucky Gunslick We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Geronimo's Revenge We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. This is Your Life, Donald Duck We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Elfago Baca: Friendly Enemies at Law Attorney Elfego Baca is called on to investigate Rawls Kettrick, a powerful cattle baron. Rawls is accused of trafficking in stolen cattle but proclaims his innocence. As Baca looks into the case the list of suspects grows. Read MoreElfago Baca: Gus Tomlin is Dead We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Mad Hermit of Chimney Butte We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Rapids Ahead/Bear Country We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Zorro: El Bandido We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Zorro: Adios El Cuchillo Humiliated by Zorro and his famous Z, El Cuchillo goes back to Los Angeles to get his revenge. Read MoreDonald's Silver Anniversary In this installment, the studio celebrates the 25th anniversary of Donald Duck's show business premiere. Read MoreMoochie of Pop Warner Football (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Moochie of Pop Warner Football (2) In the concluding episode of Walt Disney's 2-part miniseries Moochie of Pop Warner Football, the Peewees football team is set to play in a big title game held at Disneyland. Naturally, our hero Moochie Morgan (Kevin Corcoran) has his heart set on accompanying his teammates to Anaheim. Only one problem: If Moochie continues to get lousy grades in his American History class, he'll lose his eligibility. ""From Ticonderoga to Disneyland"" originally aired as part of the Walt Disney Presents anthology and was later serialized on the syndicated version of The Mickey Mouse Club. Read MoreDaniel Boone: The Warrior's Path We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Daniel Boone: And Chase the Buffalo Boone and his family face the problems of civilization when a tax rebellion comes up. Read MoreEscape to Paradise/Water Birds The first portion of this installment is a look at the making of the upcoming theatrical release Swiss Family Robinson. The film is being shot on location in Tobago in the West Indies, and all the cast and crew (and animals) must be brought to the island. The second portion is an edited version of the 1952 featurette Water Birds. Read MoreZorro: The Postponed Wedding We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Swamp Fox: A Woman's Courage We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Swamp Fox: Horses for Greene We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Salute to Father We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: End of the Trail We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: A Holster Full of Law We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Westward Ho the Wagons!: Ambush at Wagon Gap We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Westward Ho the Wagons!: White Man's Medicine We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Coyote's Lament We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Daniel Boone: The Wilderness Road We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Daniel Boone: The Promised Land We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Zorro: Auld Acquaintance We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Battle for Survival We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: A Trip to Tuscon We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Texas John Slaughter: Frank Clell's in Town We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Flash, the Teenage Otter We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Andrews' Raiders: Secret Mission Filmed almost entirely at a Wisconsin game preserve, this episode of ""Walt Disney Presents"" was based on a book by Emil Liers. The program chronicles the early life and adventures of two otters, Flash and Fleta, and their close-knit family. Upon reaching their rebellious teen years, Flash strikes out on his own, experiencing all manner of exciting and life-threatening exploits, especially when coming in contact with that predatory species known as Man. But as the ""teaser"" to this episode tipped off a week in advance, Flash is ultimately and happily reunited with his loved ones. ""Flash, the Teenage Otter"" was released theatrically in 1961. Read MoreAndrews' Raiders: Escape to Nowhere We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Wonders of the Water Worlds We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Disneyland '61/Olympic Elk We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Title Makers/Nature's Half Acre The first half of this episode promotes the upcoming theatrical film The Parent Trap. The second half is taken from the episode A Progress Report/Nature's Half Acre. Read MoreThe Titlemakers/ Nature's Half Acre The first half of this episode promotes the upcoming theatrical film The Parent Trap. The second half is taken from the episode A Progress Report/Nature's Half Acre. Read MoreAn Adventure in Color/Mathmagic Land Now moved to NBC, Walt Disney starts broadcasting his show in color. He talks about the black-and-white days of the movies and the arrival of Technicolor. In the second half of this episode, Donald Duck travels through a land of mathematical wonders. Read MoreThe Horsemasters (1) A 16-week course in horsemanship has a group of students learning the finer points of sportsmanship, jumping, horsecare, dressage and riding to hounds under stern and exacting teachers. Read MoreThe Horsemasters (2) This episode finds a teenage equestrienne enduring the rigid discipline at a British riding school. Read MoreChico, the Mismatched Coyote We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Hunting Instinct We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Inside Donald Duck We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Light in the Forest (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Light in the Forest (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Holiday for Henpecked Husbands We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Fire Called Jeremiah We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Kids is Kids We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Backstage Party This episode provides a look into the wrap party for the movie ""Babes in Toyland."" Read MoreThe Silver Skates (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Silver Skates (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Sancho, the Homing Steer (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Sancho, the Homing Steer (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Fantasy on Skis We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Comancho (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Comancho (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Carnival Time We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Prince and the Pauper (1) In London of 1537, two boys resembling each other meet accidentally and exchange "roles" for a short while. Read MoreThe Prince and the Pauper (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Prince and the Pauper (3) Part 3 of 3. As Edward experiences the brutal life of a London pauper firsthand, he becomes aware of the stark class inequality in England. Read MoreSpy in the Sky We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Von Drake in Spain We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Disneyland After Dark We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Golden Horseshoe Revue We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Escapade in Florence (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Escapade in Florence (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Silver Fox and Sam Davenport We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Man is His Own Worst Enemy Professor Ludwig von Drake demonstrates that humans are responsible for so many accidents because they fail to use reason. Read MoreSammy, the Way-Out Seal (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Sammy, the Way-Out Seal (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Magnificent Rebel (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Magnificent Rebel (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Mooncussers (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Mooncussers (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Hurricane Hannah We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Holiday Time at Disneyland We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Three Tall Tales We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Little Dog Lost The story of Candy, a little Welsh Corgi, who's raised by his family from a little puppy. But when he's grown up, he gets lost, has adventures, and learns to herd cattle before he's reunited with his family...only that's not where he wants to be. Read MoreJohnny Shiloh (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Johnny Shiloh (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Greta, the Misfit Greyhound We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Inside Outer Space We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Banner in the Sky (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Banner in the Sky (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Square Peg in a Round Hole We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Horse With the Flying Tail We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Kidnapped (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Kidnapped (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Horse Without a Head (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Horse Without a Head (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Fly With Von Drake Professor Ludwig von Drake explains the history of human flight from its humble, rudimentary beginnings to the then-present day. Read MoreThe Wahoo Bobcat We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Waltz King (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Waltz King (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Truth About Mother Goose We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Pollyanna (1) In this 1960 theatrical release (which has been sliced into three parts to be aired over three weeks), a 12-year-old orphan moves in with her wealthy aunt and changes the lives of everyone in a small town. Read MorePollyanna (2) Pollyanna (1960) re-edited into a three-part television presentation. With her "Glad Game" she intrigues the whole town and Mr. Pendergast, an old hermit, who shows the kids his glass prisms and later decides to adopt orphan Jimmy Bean. Read MorePollyanna (3) Pollyanna (1960) re-edited into a three-part television presentation. Under Pollyanna's influence, the town resists Aunt Polly for a new orphanage. Pollyanna is injured giving Aunt Polly a new outlook winning her the goodwill of the town. Read MoreFrom All of Us to All of You #2 We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Ballad of Hector the Stowaway Dog (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Ballad of Hector the Stowaway Dog (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Mediterranean Cruise We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Bristle Face (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Bristle Face (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Scarecrow of Romney Marsh (1) A poor 18th century English coastal farming community survives the King's ruinous taxes thanks to a smuggling ring created by its masked leader called the Scarecrow. The ring's success leads King George to order the Royal Army's General Pugh to capture and execute the ringleaders. It is a battle both of wits and action that the Scarecrow must win to save not only his own life but those of the men he leads while keeping the vital smuggling operation running. Read MoreThe Scarecrow of Romney Marsh (2) Dr. Syn, alias The Scarecrow, must find a way to protect his smuggling band not only from the King's forces but also from a would-be traitor within his own gang. Read MoreThe Scarecrow of Romney Marsh (3) Under pressure from King George III to capture The Scarecrow or lose his command, General Pugh plans to use two prisoners, an escapee from the Royal Navy and an American colonist, to trap The Scarecrow. Read MoreThe Legend of Two Gypsy Dogs We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. For the Love of Willadeen (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. For the Love of Willadeen (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. In Shape with Von Drake We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Greyfrier's Bobby (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Greyfrier's Bobby (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Jungle Cat We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Disneyland Goes to the World's Fair We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Hound That Thought He Was a Raccoon A charming, TV version of 1960 featurette, tells a tale in the traditional Disney vein, this animal-filled children's story is about a little lost puppy who was mothered by and adopted into an extended family of raccoons. Naturally, the dog bonds with the furry masked bandits and even when the canine ends up back in the care of his real owner, he cannot forget his adopted family. His sentiments are particularly relevant when he finds himself at the head of a raccoon-hunt. Read MoreNikki, Wild Dog of the North (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Nikki, Wild Dog of the North (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Rag, A Bone, A Box of Junk We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Tenderfoot (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Tenderfoot (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Tenderfoot (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. One Day at Teton Marsh We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Ben and Me/ Peter and the Wolf We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Toby Tyler (1) Toby Tyler (1960) re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Twelve-year-old Toby runs away and joins a circus. He is exploited by the concessionaire, helped by the strong man, and becomes friends with Mr. Stubbs, the chimp. Read MoreToby Tyler (2) Toby Tyler (1960) re-edited into a two-part presentation. When the boy equestrian is hurt, Toby takes his place, becoming a tremendous success when Mr. Stubbs joins the act. Toby is then reunited with his now understanding guardians. Read MoreBig Red (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Big Red (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Disneyland 10th Anniversary This installment celebrates the 10th anniversary of the opening of Disneyland, and includes a look at some of the new attractions that are getting ready to open. Read MoreIda, the Offbeat Eagle After falling out of her nest, a young eagle is rescued by a rancher, and she in turn, rescues him. Read MoreGallagher (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Gallegher (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Gallegher (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. An Otter in the Family We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Almost Angels (1) A young boy wants to join the Vienna Boys Choir in this 1962 Disney feature film. Read MoreAlmost Angels (2) A young boy wants to join the Vienna Boys Choir in this 1962 Disney feature film. Read MoreKilroy (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Kilroy (2) Kilroy continues his stay in Wilson Jct., Due to his helpful nature however he starts to cause one calamity after another - interfering in several peoples love lives , and a new invention of a local citizen. Read MoreKilroy (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Kilroy (4) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Yellowstone Cubs This 1963 theatrical short subject tells the story of a bear in Yellowstone Park who is searching for her two lost cubs. Read MoreA Case of Murder We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Big Swindle We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Daily Press vs. City Hall We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Flight of the White Stallions (1) Miracle of the White Stallions (1963) re-titled and re-edited into a two-part television presentation. Colonel Alois Podhajsky, director of Vienna's world-famous Spanish Riding School, saves the school and its Lipizzan white horses during World War II. Read MoreFlight of the White Stallions (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Minado the Wolverine We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Three Lives of Thomasina (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Three Lives of Thomasina (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Three Lives of Thomasina (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Summer Magic (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Summer Magic (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Country Coyote Goes Hollywood We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Moon Pilot (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Moon Pilot (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Music for Everybody Professor von Drake is back to discuss the importance that music plays in people's lives. It features clips from Sleeping Beauty, The Three Caballeros, and Make Mine Music. Read MoreThe Legend of Young Dick Turpin (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Legend of Young Dick Turpin (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Ballerina (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Ballerina (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Run, Light Buck, Run We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Tiger Walks (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Tiger Walks (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Concho, The Coyote Who Wasn't We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Emil and the Detective (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Emil and the Detective (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Legend of El Blanco We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Savage Sam (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Savage Sam (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The 101 Problems of Hercules We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Showdown with the Sundown Kid We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Crusading Reporter We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Ranger's Guide to Nature We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Moon-Spinners (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Moon-Spinners (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Moon-Spinners (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Joker, the Amiable Ocelot Jim Benton salvages an old car he finds in the desert, not realizing that it contains an unexpected guest: a baby ocelot whose family was living in the car (the rest of them managed to get out). When Jim finds the ocelot, it becomes friends with Jim and his other pets. Read MoreDisneyland Around the Seasons Walt takes viewers on yet another tour of Disneyland to point out some of the newest additions to the park, including New Orleans Square, It's a Small World and Great Moments With Mr. Lincoln. Read MoreWillie and the Yank (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Willie and the Yank (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Willie and the Yank (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Tragedy on the Trail We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Trial by Terror We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Boy Who Flew With Condors We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Atta Girl, Kelly!: K for Kelly Kelly is one of a litter of puppies born on a puppy farm. This farm breeds dogs especially for the Seeing Eye. Kelly was turned over to Danny Richards as a 4H project, knowing he will have to give her up after a year. Read MoreAtta Girl, Kelly! (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Atta Girl, Kelly! (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Man on Wheels We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Salute to Alaska We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Tattooed Police Horse We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Not So Lonely Lighthouse Keeper We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. How the West was Lost We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Fighting Prince of Donegal (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Fighting Prince of Donegal (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Fighting Prince of Donegal (3) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Run, Appaloosa, Run We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. One Day at Beetle Rock We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Monkey's Uncle (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Monkey's Uncle (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Boy Called Nuttin' (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. A Boy Called Nuttin' (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. From All of Us to All of You #3 We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Way Down Cellar (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Way Down Cellar (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. From the Pirates of the Caribbean to the World of Tomorrow We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Pablo and the Dancing Chihuahua (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Pablo and the Dancing Chihuahua (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. My Family is a Menagerie We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Young Loner (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Young Loner (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Wild Heart We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Ranger of Brownstone Park ranger J. Audubon Woodlore explains the duties and difficulties of being the ranger in charge of Brownstone National Park. Read MoreThe Mystery of Edward Simms (1) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. The Mystery of Edward Simms (2) We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Ten Who Dared We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one. Nature's Charter Tours We don't have an overview translated in English. Help us expand our database by adding one.


--- [Walt Disney's "Our Unsung Villains" Season 2 Ep 20 (Edited)] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Our Unsung Villains | Disney Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Our Unsung Villains" is a 1956 episode of the television series Disneyland. Synopsis[] The program has Walt Disney handing over the hosting duties to the Magic Mirror, who promptly decides to do a show devoted to the Disney villains. Hans Conried plays the role of the Magic Mirror and would reprise the role in many Disney television specials, including the 1977 follow-up Disney's Greatest Villains. Featured villains[] The characters featured in the special were, in order of appearance: - Big Bad Wolf - Three Little Wolves - The Queen - Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs - Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear - Song of the South - Captain Hook - Peter Pan Cast[] - Walt Disney - Host - Hans Conried - Magic Mirror Additional crew[] - Music: Oliver Wallace - Art Director: Marvin Davis - Production Supervisor: Harry Tytle - Set Decorator: Bertram Granger - Photography: Gordon Avil, Bert Glennon - Film Editor: Lloyd Richardson - Assistant Director: Gordon McLean - Special Processes: Ub Iwerks, Eustace Lycett - Sound: Robert O. Cook - Sound Engineer: George Lowerre (uncredited) Cartoon Sequence[] - Music: Paul Smith, Oliver Wallace - Animators: Wolfgang Reitherman, Milt Kahl, Bob Carlson, John Lounsbery, Ollie Johnston, Eric Larson, Les Clark - Layout: Ken Anderson, Ken O'Connor - Backgrounds: Claude Coats, Ray Huffine Trivia[] - The Magic Mirror segments were re-used in DTV Monster Hits as Jeffrey Jones re-dubbed the Magic Mirror. Gallery[] External links[] | This page uses content from the English Wikipedia page Our Unsung Villains. The list of authors can be seen in the page history. Text from Wikipedia is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. |
