=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Series 1 Episode 6 - Happy Valley Wikia]
The final episode of this gripping drama sees a disguised and weakened Tommy arrive in Hebden Bridge, where he knows his son Ryan lives with Catherine. He breaks into an abandoned narrow boat to use as a hiding place, but how much longer can he go without treatment for his stab wounds? Meanwhile, at Catherine's house, Clare wants to lift the tense mood and decides to throw a party for ...
URL: https://happy-valley.fandom.com/wiki/Series_1_Episode_6

[What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...]
Apr 24, 2023 · And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1090397/happy-valley-seasons-1-2-recap-final-ending/

[Ryan Cawood | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom]
Ryan Cawood is the only son to the deceased Becky and Tommy, as well as the grandson to Catherine, Richard and Lynn.
URL: https://happy-valley.fandom.com/wiki/Ryan_Cawood

[Happy Valley, S1 E6 - Old Ain't Dead]
Aug 28, 2014 · A recap of the final episode of season 1 of the British crime drama Happy Valley starring Sarah Lancashire as a Yorkshire police officer.
URL: https://oldaintdead.com/happy-valley-s1-e6/

[BBC One - Happy Valley - Episode guide]
Episode 1 1/6 Catherine discovers the remains of a murder victim, and it leads her to Tommy Lee Royce.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06zqjpj/episodes/guide


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Series 1 Episode 6 - Happy Valley Wikia] ---
| Series 1 Episode 6 | | |---|---| | Episode number | 6 | | Directed by | Tim Fywell | | Written by | Sally Wainwright | | Air date | 3 June 2014 | | Episode chronology | | | ← Previous "Series 1 Episode 5" | Next → "Series 2 Episode 1" | | Series 1 | The final episode of this gripping drama sees a disguised and weakened Tommy arrive in Hebden Bridge, where he knows his son Ryan lives with Catherine. He breaks into an abandoned narrow boat to use as a hiding place, but how much longer can he go without treatment for his stab wounds? Meanwhile, at Catherine’s house, Clare wants to lift the tense mood and decides to throw a party for Catherine’s birthday. But the family comes to bitter blows when Daniel reveals a different side of the story regarding his sister Becky. Is Tommy as guilty as Catherine has implied? Back at work, Catherine’s at the police station when a postman reports an odd smell coming from a local tower block. Catherine instructs Twiggy and Shaf to investigate, but when they arrive they’re confronted with a double murder scene. Who are the victims and, more alarmingly, who is responsible for the horrific crime? Elsewhere, things aren’t looking good for the kidnappers. Ashley has been placed in a witness protection scheme after trading secrets on a local drug ring and Kevin’s locked up in jail awaiting trial. Will they get away with their sinister plot or finally pay their dues? When the coast is clear, Tommy approaches Ryan after school and invites him to visit the narrow boat. Ryan’s cautious at first, but this soon turns into curiosity. Father and son bond and the visits continue, but when Ryan brings a friend along it sends Tommy into a panic. He sends the friend on his way, but when Ryan makes to leave Tommy pulls him back. He’s not going anywhere. Will Catherine be able to stop history repeating itself?


--- [What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...] ---
What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day on AMC+ and Acorn TV. The first two seasons of the British crime procedural are currently available on both of those streaming platforms, but in case you don’t have time for a full debrief on the action so far, here’s a recap of Seasons 1 and 2. (Content warning: Happy Valley includes storylines involving sexual assault and suicide.) As the series starts, viewers meet Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire), a police sergeant in a West Yorkshire community beset by drug problems. Catherine’s daughter Becky died by suicide, and Catherine blames a man named Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) for Becky’s death, since Royce raped Becky. Now Catherine is raising Ryan (Rhys Connah), the child that resulted from that rape, and living with her sister, Clare Cartwright (Siobhan Finneran), who’s recovering from a heroin addiction. Royce is still around town, unfortunately. In fact, he gets involved in a ransom scheme soon after getting out of prison. Accountant Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) wants more money from his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan), so he teams up with the criminal Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to kidnap Nevison’s daughter, Ann (Charlie Murphy), and demand ransom. Cowgill brings in two goons, Royce and another man named Lewis Whippey (Adam Long). Kevin has a crisis of conscience about the ransom idea, but it comes too late — the criminals have already abducted Ann. So Kevin goes to the police station and starts giving a statement to Catherine, but he leaves before detailing everything. It gets worse: Whippey later discovers that Royce raped Ann as well. Royce also murders police officer Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle), Catherine’s protégé, when she pulls over his van for speeding. After spotting Royce around town, Catherine does some digging and uncovers evidence of the kidnapping. She learns about the abductee when Nevison and his wife finally tell the police about the kidnapping, defying Cowgill’s orders. Catherine visits the house of Royce’s mother’s, Lynn Dewhurst (Caroline O’Neill), and that happens to be where Royce stashed Ann after Cowgill ordered him to kill her. Catherine finds and frees Ann, but Royce attacks her, and the ensuing fight lands Catherine in the hospital. While Catherine recuperates, police arrest Kevin and Cowgill for abduction, but Cowgill snitches about a drug smuggling ring in exchange for witness protection. He never makes it into that protection, though: He’s gunned down by other smugglers before assuming his new identity. As for the other two accomplices, Royce overhears Whippey telling a friend about all the crimes Royce has committed — raping Ann, killing Kirsten, attacking Catherine — and so Royce adds Whippey to his list of murder victims. Royce, who previously let slip to Ryan that he’s his father, then abducts the boy and even threatens to kill him, but Catherine finds Ryan’s bicycle and then Ryan before it’s too late. Season 2 starts with Catherine finding Lynn’s decomposing body. Improbably, Catherine finds herself a suspect in the case — and in two similar killings — because of her animosity toward Royce. And Royce, now imprisoned, also blames Catherine for Lynn’s death. He even makes a lunge at Catherine, despite his handcuffs, at Lynn’s funeral. Viewers also find out in Season 2 that Royce has forged a connection with a woman named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson), who’s working under a fake name as a teaching assistant at Ryan’s school. And Frances tries to get Ryan to become closer to Royce, even buying a birthday present for the boy on Royce’s behalf. Frances eventually realizes, though, that she’s not as engaged to Royce as she thinks she is. In fact, Royce is “engaged” to many other women. Meanwhile, a detective sergeant, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), is blackmailed by Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore), his mistress, who tells him to either pay her a ransom each month or leave his wife and children. In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region. Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison. Alison then overdoses on diazepam, and Catherine arrives at the farm to find Daryl dead and Alison clinging to life. Catherine arrests Alison, who maintains that Daryl said he wasn’t involved in Vicky’s death. After hearing from Clare’s new boyfriend about Vicky’s blackmailing ways and hearing from others about John’s violent streak, Catherine realizes that John was the one who killed Vicky. She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)


--- [Ryan Cawood | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom] ---
| Ryan Cawood | | |---|---| | ]] | | | About | | | Status | Alive | | Occupation | Student | | Relationships | | | Father | Tommy Lee Royce | | Mother | Becky Cawood | | Grandfathers | Richard Cawood Tommy lee Royce Sr | | Grandmothers | Catherine Cawood Lynn Dewhurst | | Uncles | Daniel Cawood | | Aunts | Clare Cartwright | Ryan Cawood is the only son to the deceased Becky and Tommy, as well as the grandson to Catherine, Richard and Lynn. As a newborn Ryan's mother, Becky, took her own life after struggling to deal with the fact that she was raped by Tommy Lee Royce and had given birth to his child. Becky's body was found by Ryan's grandfather, Richard. His grandmother, Catherine and great-aunt Clare had raised Ryan with the agreement of not putting him into the foster system. However, this decision led to Catherine and Richard's divorce and Daniel's estranged relationship with his mother. Relationship with Family[] Due to the circumstances surrounding Ryan's existence, many relatives have been estranged from him as they grieve for Becky and blame Tommy, his father, for destroying their lives. His own grandfather, Richard initially despised Ryan and was absent in the early stages of his life, as was Daniel. However, this changed when Catherine and Clare took Ryan to Daniel and Lucy's meal, where they announced their pregnancy, as he realised that Richard and Daniel were his relatives and he wanted to form a relationship with them. He asked Catherine if he could play football with Richard; initially, he rejected the idea but after much convincing, Richard agreed to get to know Ryan. As for Daniel, initially he was not receptive to building a relationship with Ryan. In Series 1 at Catherine's birthday party, Daniel got drunk and exposed the circumstances surrounding Ryan's birth to everybody, making it clear that he did not forgive Catherine for keeping custody of him and blamed him for Becky's death. This changed in Series 2 when he and Lucy divorced and he was homeless as he stayed at Catherine's and formed a close bond with Ryan. Behaviour in School & Relationship with Tommy[] At school Ryan was a troublemaker and got into trouble quite frequently with other students in the classroom. Catherine always feared that this was a result of Tommy's behaviour and she believed that it had genetically passed down onto Ryan. In Series 1, after a visit to Lynn Dewhurst's house, Catherine discovered that she was aware of Ryan being Tommy's son. Frightened, Catherine forced Lynn to promise that she would not tell Tommy about Ryan as she wanted to protect her grandson and prevent them from building a relationship. However, when Tommy visited Lynn prior to keeping Ann Gallagher in her cellar, she admitted that Ryan was his son and that he shared the child with Becky Cawood, who had died not long after giving birth. Tommy was unaware of Becky's death and their child together. He hid behind a wall close to Ryan's school not long after the revelation and confronted Catherine about Becky. She quickly chucked Ryan into the car to prevent him from hearing the truth and threatened to "chop (Tommy's) dick off and make (him) swallow it". She revealed that Becky had committed suicide after giving birth to Ryan, who had been conceived through rape at the hands of Tommy. Angrily, Tommy shouted to Ryan that he was his father whilst Catherine sped off into the distance. As a result of this, Ryan was now aware of his father. Not long after this incident, when Tommy was on the run for being wanted for the kidnap and rape of Ann Gallagher and the murder of PC Kirsten McAskill, he saw Ryan in the street cycling home after school and approached him, reminding him of their relation and invited him back to a houseboat on the canal that he had broken into for accommodation. He hoped that by taking Ryan he could escape arrest and go on the run; he also wanted to hurt Catherine. After meeting up with Tommy at the houseboat several days after school, Ryan invited his friend Cesco to go with him despite Tommy warning him not to tell anybody of his whereabouts. This angered Tommy and he reiterated to Ryan that he should only visit alone. The next day, Catherine and Clare were made aware of Tommy and Ryan's visits through Cesco's mum and they contacted the police before visiting the canal themselves. Meanwhile, Ryan and Tommy were inside the houseboat. After an altercation, Tommy grabbed Ryan and poured petrol all over them both, causing him to scream and alert Catherine to the scene. As she entered the houseboat, Tommy threatened to set fire to them both. Catherine and Tommy fought and Ryan ran out of the houseboat before Tommy was arrested for his crimes. In Series 2, Tommy falsely turned to religion in prison and exploited many religious women into helping him achieve his ultimate goal; getting close to Ryan. One woman, Frances Drummond, stole her sister's identity as a highly regarded teacher and began working at Ryan's school to get close to him. This plan worked as she was assigned as Ryan's reading partner, where she portrayed Tommy in a positive light and preached the idea of forgiveness to him. This led to Ryan asking questions about his father which raised Clare's suspicions. On Ryan's birthday, Frances secretly sent him an expensive gift on Tommy's behalf. When Catherine realised who it was from, she sent the present back and was determined to find out who had been introducing Ryan to his father. Clare admitted that he had been asking questions about Tommy prior to his birthday and it became apparent that Frances had been taking advantage of Ryan as she believed that Tommy wanted to marry her when he was released from prison. Catherine confronted her about this and she was later made aware that she was under false pretences regarding her engagement to Tommy. However, she had encouraged Ryan to write a letter to Tommy and gave him the address of his prison, and the series concluded with Tommy receiving the letter - his plan had worked and he had found a way to contact his son. In Series 3, Catherine discovered that Clare and Neil had secretly been taking Ryan to visit Tommy in prison after he had been relocated to Leeds. This angered Catherine and she confronted Clare about it after following them to Leeds in a different car so that she couldn't be identified. At the visit, Tommy invited Ryan to his court hearing in Sheffield and continued to make plans with Ryan after his release, despite his release being impossible due to the extent of his sentence. This raised suspicions that he was planning to escape. When Catherine heard about the court hearing, she urged Ryan not to go as Tommy's behaviour was predictable and she didn't want him to make a negative impression on Ryan. However, Ryan secretly went to the hearing instead of going to school, and upon Tommy's acknowledgement of his son's presence he evaded court. However, Ryan was unaware that Richard was also present at the hearing as he had been sent by Catherine to keep an eye on Tommy's behaviour and they bumped into each other after the chaos emerged. After Tommy's escape, he was placed in a property by the Knezevic gang, who he had been working alongside to escape prison. Tommy had remembered Ryan's gaming handle whilst playing on the console and decided to contact him. They exchanged messages before calling each other through the headsets; this is how Tommy discovered that Ryan and Catherine were not at home due to his escape and he pitched the idea of Ryan going with him to Marbella as his escape route. Ryan refused but Tommy encouraged him to consider it. The next day, Tommy was being moved elsewhere by Velijko Knezevic and two of his men, but Tommy viewed this as a trap and murdered them all before escaping, preventing further contact with his son. Ryan was then interviewed by the police because he had been visiting Tommy in prison, where he revealed their conversation through the games consoles. This led the police to the property that Tommy had been staying at but he had evaded; Catherine discovered that he had broken into her house after Winnie contacted her. Tommy went into Ryan's bedroom and looked at photo albums of his son and Becky, realising that he had lived a good life with his grandmother before a confrontation with Catherine, which led to his suicide. Rob Hepworth[] Rob was a PE teacher at Ryan's school and his coach in the football team, where Ryan played as a goalkeeper. Ryan was not a strong player in his position and he was known for being cocky at school, which was made worse when he was with Cesco. After an altercation regarding rumours of Rob having an affair with a fellow teacher, Ryan and Cesco were chased on their bikes by Rob, who was driving his car. The following day, Ryan and Cesco found that their bikes had been chained together by Rob. Cesco admitted that it was him who started the altercation the previous day, but Ryan continued to argue with the teacher resulting in his place in the football team being revoked. Another incident between Ryan and Rob was when Rob's car had cock and balls graffiti on it by one of the students. Rob presumed that it was Ryan who had committed the vandalism and requested that Catherine would come in, in an attempt to humiliate Ryan and get him into trouble. However, Rob was unaware that Catherine was the police officer that had arrested his wife for possession of drugs just days before, and she had suspicions that he was abusing her due to the bruises on her arms. Catherine searched Ryan's pockets for any traces of marker pen and asked Rob if he had any evidence; his only evidence was the altercation regarding his position on the football team. The headteacher at Ryan's school concluded that Rob's assumption was not enough for the school to punish Ryan and the case was closed. After this, Rob started being kind to Ryan in school and offered him advice and support, and returned his position on the football team to him. As the series concluded, Rob had been accused of murdering his wife, Joanna. Although he was cleared of this crime, it was revealed that he obtained inappropriate images of children on his mobile phone.


--- [Happy Valley, S1 E6 - Old Ain't Dead] ---
Everything goes to hell in Catherine’s life and work in the season finale of Happy Valley. Hang on for the ride! There are spoilers everywhere. Catherine (Sarah Lancashire) was asked to tell Nevison (George Costigan) about Ann’s rape. She does. She also tells him that nobody knows where Lewis and Tommy (James Norton) are. Kevin is in prison. Ashley is free. Ashley is shot during a traffic stop by a person on a motorcycle who speeds away. Presumably this murder is done by one of the drug dealers up the line that Ashley ratted on. Tommy abandoned the apartment with its two dead bodies and broke into a narrow boat sitting on the canal. His stab wound isn’t healing and he’s in bad shape. He follows Catherine and Ryan (Rhys Connah) around all the time and sees where they live. Clare (Siobhan Finneran) is planning a birthday party for Catherine. The Gallaghers are to be invited. Clare talks to Catherine’s son Daniel (Karl Davies) about whether or not he thinks she should invite his dad and his dad’s new wife Ros. She makes the huge mistake of telling Daniel that Catherine and Daniel spent a couple of nights together recently. The birthday party is a disaster. Daniel drinks too much and confronts his father about being with his mother. He curses Ryan and calls him the thing that shouldn’t be. He blames Becky for her own problems because she was no good and because she liked Tommy and hung around with him. He confronts his mother for things she said right after Becky’s death and claims that she feels guilt, not grief, over Becky’s death. After he’s spewed 8 years of resentments all over the party, everyone leaves. Catherine winds up her birthday by having a fight with Clare. The finishing touch. The next day Catherine reports back to work. She’s demanding with her superior officers about things they have not done as part of the investigation and hunt for Tommy Lee Royce. She has a long list of things that should be done. They promise to get them done. After a few more days of inaction and frustration, Catherine actually turns in her badge and quits. A mailman reports a smell in an apartment building and the police find the two murdered guys Tommy left to rot. Big mistake number 2 for this episode is that Catherine and Clare decide that Ryan will be allowed to ride his bike to school. The moment Tommy sees Ryan without Catherine around he approaches him. Ryan says, “I’ve never had a dad.” He follows Tommy to the boat. They talk about going for a ride as soon as Tommy gets some petrol. Tommy makes Ryan promise not to tell. Ryan asks to come back the next day. The next day Ryan shows up at the boat with a friend. When Tommy gets angry that he told, Ryan says, “He didn’t believe me when I told him I had a dad.” Day number 3 of knowing where his dad is sees Ryan return alone to the boat. Tommy, who is feverish and sick looking, shows Ryan a container of petrol. He tells Ryan it’s time for him to go and he wants to take Ryan with him. He doesn’t want to leave Ryan with his granny – that’s no fate for a lad of his. He’s talking in cloaked language but he intends to kill himself and he’s going to kill Ryan at the same time. Tommy won’t let Ryan go home. The crazy conversation beside the container of gasoline drags on for so long that Clare calls Catherine about Ryan being late. She learned from Ryan’s friend that he’s been visiting his dad down at the canal. Catherine rushes toward the canal, calling for all sorts of backup and help. Clare rushes to the canal as well. They arrive first. Clare holds Catherine back from charging into the boat until backup arrives. Ryan is finally starting to realize his dad is up to something bad. His fear shows in his eyes and he wants to get away. Tommy grabs him and pours gasoline over them both. When Ryan screams, Catherine runs in. Catherine is able to overpower Tommy. Ryan runs. Catherine throws Tommy down and kicks him repeatedly. He begs her to kill him. Instead she foams him with a fire extinguisher and kicks him a couple more good ones. The backup arrives and Tommy is carted away. Catherine takes her badge and her sergeant’s stripes back when they are offered. Catherine and Daniel talk, apologize, make up. There is hope for their relationship to heal. The final scene is lovely. Swelling music, Catherine alone on a hilltop with the wind and the sun. She’s finally free to just breathe, be whole. Some Thoughts The last scene might have been less final feeling, less of a conclusion to Catherine’s story, had the writer and the cast and crew known that Happy Valley would get renewed for another season. But they didn’t, so what we got was more like a happy ending than the usual cliffhanger that takes you into the next season with anticipation. No matter – Catherine is a great character and I’m thrilled she will be back. I love the fire extinguisher foaming by Catherine taking us into the first episode and taking us out of the 6th episode. Nice detail. Sarah Lancashire and Siobhan Finneran are exceptional together. I hope both sisters return for season 2. Catherine without Clare wouldn’t be the same. Having Clare gives Catherine a place to be human, vulnerable, normal. I know Siobhan Finneran is busy with other shows and Sarah Lancashire is busy with Last Tango in Halifax, so I hope the scheduling can all click. Strange as it seems to an American that a full season of a British show is only 5 or 6 episodes, it does have the advantage of enabling the actors to make quite a few different shows in a year’s time. I want to offer kudos to James Norton on his great performance as a truly evil man. I’m glad there are actors who willingly take the parts they know will make the audience hate them. On the other hand, it’s wonderful to see someone we loved to hate elsewhere, like Siobhan Finneran’s Mrs. O’Brien on Downton Abbey, show up here in a much more likeable role. This drama was powerful and visceral and real. Congratulations to all the people involved in making it extraordinary. And thank you to Netflix for bringing it to American audiences. All images from Happy Valley © Red Production Co.


--- [BBC One - Happy Valley - Episode guide] ---
Main content Happy Valley Episodes Episode guide - All - Available now (18) - Next on (0) - The Story So Far Catch up with series one of this thrilling crime drama with a five minute recap. Catch up with series one of this thrilling crime drama with a five minute recap.
