=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[One on One (TV Series 2001–2006) - Episode list - IMDb]
Flex Alexander and Kyla Pratt in One on One (2001). S1.E5 ∙ My Life as a Dog. Mon, Oct 1, 2001. A heartbroken Breanna takes a page from Flex's book and ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0284770/episodes/

[One on One (American TV series)]
Notable guest stars ; Laila Ali as Herself - (S1E5, "My Life as a Dog"); Duane Martin as Elliott – (S1E8, "Phantom Menace") ; Clifton Powell as Coach Guillory – ( ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_on_One_(American_TV_series)

[Christine Lakin]
Episode: "Dick Solomon of the Indiana Solomons". Promised Land, Dawn Sterling, Episode: "In the Money". 2000, Odd Man Out, Gwen, Episode: "My Life as a Dog".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christine_Lakin

["One on One" My Life as a Dog (TV Episode 2001) - IMDb]
My Life as a Dog: Directed by Ellen Gittelsohn. With Flex Alexander, Kyla Pratt, Kelly Perine, Sicily Johnson. A heartbroken Breanna takes a page from Flex's book and transforms herself into a "player" - much to Flex's dismay.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0666411/

[My Life as a Dog (TV Series 1995–1996)]
My Life as a Dog · Creators · David Brandes · Reidar Jönsson · Donna Matson-Jönsson · Stars · Michael Yarmush · Callum Keith Rennie · Marley Otto.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0118408/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [One on One (TV Series 2001–2006) - Episode list - IMDb] ---
Flex allows Breanna to go in a ski trip, only to discover that it's co-ed. As he searches her bedroom for clues, he finds something even more shocking. Flex's competitive spirit is kicked into high gear when an old nemesis moves into the neighborhood. His apprehension grows worse when the man throws a Halloween party. When his dad has a heart attack, Flex has a change of heart on how he lives his life. Spirit and Breanna give Arnaz's cousin a makeover before a dance.


--- [One on One (American TV series)] ---
One on One is an American sitcom created by Eunetta T. Boone and was aired on UPN from September 3, 2001, to May 15, 2006. The series stars Flex Alexander as a single sportscaster, who becomes a full-time father when his ex-wife decides to accept a job out of the country and his teenage daughter Breanna (Kyla Pratt) moves in with him. The series was set in Baltimore for the first four seasons, before changing settings to Los Angeles for the final season. The series was a joint production of the Greenblatt/Janollari Studio and Daddy's Girl Productions in association with Paramount Network Television. However, the show was not originally a Paramount production. In fact, the show was originally owned by Fox Television Studios but last minute, they ended up dropping out due to One on One not fitting in with the financial model..
The show was originally pitched to ABC when the pilot was shot in 1999. Unfortunately, due to the fact that ABC’s sitcom audiences declining, they decided not to move forward with the project so Flex and the creator of the show, Eunetta pitched One on One to The WB but since the network rebranded, the show was not fitting in due to it not being “teen enough” and that is why the WB network passed on the show as well, so in 2000, the show was pitched to Fox considering that Fox Television Studios was the original distributor but they ended up passing on the show. Not long after ABC, The WB and Fox all passed on One on One, UPN executives took interest in the show considering their ties to Fox and because the Moesha cancellation worked out in the favor of One on One, UPN picked it up. However, Fox Television Studios dropped out last minute due to the fact that the show did not fit in with the financial model so that’s when Paramount Television stepped in.. The series featured guest appearances from numerous celebrities and athletes, including Lil' Zane, Chris Brown, Lil' Romeo, Eve, Lloyd, Floetry, Angie Stone, Mario, Omarion, Brandy, Solange Knowles, Nina Sky, Marques Houston, Smokey Robinson, Kim Fields, Avant, Jennifer Freeman, Nate Dogg, Bobby V, Claudia Jordan, Ruben Studdard, and Lisa Leslie. The show was cancelled months before The WB and UPN merged to form The CW.
The show would also have a spin-off series Cuts, which follows Flex's younger stepbrother Kevin Barnes running the local barbershop/day spa with a spoiled brat named Tiffany Sherwood after her father Jack Sherwood purchased the shop. The show premiered as a mid-season replacement during the 2004–2005 television season. The show lasted for only two seasons and was also canceled when UPN and The WB merged to form The CW.


--- [Christine Lakin] ---
Christine Lakin (; born January 25, 1979) is an American actress and director. She is best known for her role as Alicia "Al" Lambert on the 1990s ABC/CBS sitcom Step by Step. She also played Joan of Arc on Showtime's Reefer Madness, was the sidekick on Craig Kilborn's 2010 Fox talk show The Kilborn File, and provides the voice of Joyce Kinney in Family Guy.


--- ["One on One" My Life as a Dog (TV Episode 2001) - IMDb] ---
My Life as a Dog - Episode aired Oct 1, 2001 - TV-14 - 22m A heartbroken Breanna takes a page from Flex's book and transforms herself into a "player" - much to Flex's dismay.A heartbroken Breanna takes a page from Flex's book and transforms herself into a "player" - much to Flex's dismay.A heartbroken Breanna takes a page from Flex's book and transforms herself into a "player" - much to Flex's dismay.


--- [My Life as a Dog (TV Series 1995–1996)] ---
- Awards - 2 wins & 1 nomination total Browse episodes Photos Featured reviews This show, set in the Manitoba town of Gimli, has undefinable but authentic Canadian prairie air. It's the story of a boy sent to live with his uncle, his mother's twin, and his aunt, after the death of his mother. The main characters, Eric, Johnny, AJ, and Zoe, maintain the high standards of outstanding Canadian acting, and the supporting cast is, as always, both amusing and dead-on. My kids love to watch our tapes of this - they identify strongly with Eric. I like it myself because it's got that slight spin of Canadian insanity that makes it so different from mainstream US "pop" TV. Not every episode has a moral lesson; not every moral lesson is pounded into the ground; and sometimes, as in real life, there's no resolution to the problem. "A Day In The Life" is probably my favourite episode. If you get a chance to watch this show, make time to do so. The main characters, Eric, Johnny, AJ, and Zoe, maintain the high standards of outstanding Canadian acting, and the supporting cast is, as always, both amusing and dead-on. My kids love to watch our tapes of this - they identify strongly with Eric. I like it myself because it's got that slight spin of Canadian insanity that makes it so different from mainstream US "pop" TV. Not every episode has a moral lesson; not every moral lesson is pounded into the ground; and sometimes, as in real life, there's no resolution to the problem. "A Day In The Life" is probably my favourite episode. If you get a chance to watch this show, make time to do so. There's a saying that I think fits here aproperiately: If it ain't broken, don't fix it. My Life As A Dog (1985) is one of the best films to come out of Sweden, and this television series holds nothing of the quality that made the movie so special. I am surprised to find the author of the novel, Reidar Jönsson, involved in the development of this below par series. My Life As A Dog (1985) is one of the best films to come out of Sweden, and this television series holds nothing of the quality that made the movie so special. I am surprised to find the author of the novel, Reidar Jönsson, involved in the development of this below par series. Probably, the better film never carried out on the childhood: that period of the life that could come to be the most happily unhappy (or the more happy unhappyly) of our existence. The form in that Hallstrom succeeds in passing continually of the drama to the comedy and the other way around is absolutely brilliant. Did you know - ConnectionsVersion of My Life as a Dog (1985) Details Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
