=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada - Wikipedia]
Attorney General of Canada The role was created in 1867 to replace the attorney general of Canada West and attorney general of Canada East. [citation needed] As the top prosecuting officer in Canada, 'attorney general' is a separate title held by the minister of justice—a member of the Cabinet.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minister_of_Justice_and_Attorney_General_of_Canada

[Jody Wilson-Raybould - The Canadian Encyclopedia]
Jody Wilson-Raybould was born 23 March 1971 in Vancouver, British Columbia. Her father, Bill Wilson, is a fiery Kwagiulth (Kwakwaka’wakw) hereditary chief, her mother, Sandra Wilson, a non-Indigenous teacher. They separated when Wilson-Raybould was a small child. Her mother raised her on Vancouver Island, mostly in Comox, not far from the villages ...
URL: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/jody-wilson-raybould

[Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada - Wikiwand]
The minister of justice and attorney general of Canada is a dual-role portfolio in the Canadian Cabinet.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Minister_of_Justice_(Canada)

[History of the Department of Justice]
Aug 5, 2021 — Macdonald, who was Minister of Justice and Attorney General as well as the new Prime Minister. The Crown Law Department, Canada East became ...
URL: https://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/hist.html

[Gary Anandasangaree appointed minister of justice and attorney general]
Gary Anandasangaree has been sworn in as Canada's new minister of justice and attorney general as Prime Minister Mark Carney reshapes the federal cabinet. Anandasangaree is a human rights lawyer and serves as minister of Crown-Indigenous relations and northern affairs. He will replace Arif Virani ...
URL: https://www.lawtimesnews.com/news/general/gary-anandasangaree-appointed-minister-of-justice-and-attorney-general/391753


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada - Wikipedia] ---
The minister of justice and attorney general of Canada (French: ministre de la justice et procureur général du Canada) is a dual-role portfolio in the Canadian Cabinet.
The officeholder in the role of Minister of Justice (Ministre de la Justice) serves as the minister of the Crown responsible for the Department of Justice and the justice portfolio, and in the role of Attorney General (Procureur général), litigates on behalf of the Crown and serves as the chief legal advisor to the Government of Canada. (Though most prosecution functions of the attorney general have been assigned to the Public Prosecution Service of Canada. The attorney general is supported in this role by the director of public prosecutions, who is simultaneously the deputy attorney general.)


--- [Jody Wilson-Raybould - The Canadian Encyclopedia] ---
No content


--- [Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada Canadian Cabinet minister; main legal advisor to the government From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads The minister of justice and attorney general of Canada (French: ministre de la justice et procureur général du Canada) is a dual-role portfolio in the Canadian Cabinet.[7] The officeholder in the role of Minister of Justice (Ministre de la Justice) serves as the minister of the Crown responsible for the Department of Justice and the justice portfolio, and in the role of Attorney General (Procureur général),[8] litigates on behalf of the Crown and serves as the chief legal advisor to the Government of Canada. (Though most prosecution functions of the attorney general have been assigned to the Public Prosecution Service of Canada. The attorney general is supported in this role by the director of public prosecutions, who is simultaneously the deputy attorney general.[8][9]) Remove ads Attorney General of Canada Summarize Perspective The role was created in 1867 to replace the attorney general of Canada West and attorney general of Canada East. As the top prosecuting officer in Canada, 'attorney general' is a separate title held by the minister of justice—a member of the Cabinet. The minister of justice is concerned with questions of policy and their relationship to the justice system. In their role as attorney general, they are the chief law officer of the Crown. The roles have been connected since confederation. As a result of controversy, following the SNC-Lavalin affair, Anne McLellan was appointed to review the roles and prepare a report on whether they should be separated. She recommended the positions remain combined.[10][11] This cabinet position is usually reserved for someone holding a legal qualification. There have been exceptions: Joe Clark only studied the first year of law at Dalhousie University before transferring to University of British Columbia Faculty of Law and dropping out to embark on political life.[12] This cabinet portfolio has been held by many individuals who went on to become prime minister including John Sparrow David Thompson, R. B. Bennett, Louis St Laurent, Pierre Elliott Trudeau, John Turner, Kim Campbell and Jean Chrétien (Clark became MoJAG after his time as prime minister). This is the only Canadian Ministry (other than that of the prime minister) which has not been reorganized since its creation in 1867. A separate cabinet position, the minister of public safety (formerly known as the "solicitor general") administers the law enforcement agencies (police, prisons, and security) of the federal government. Remove ads Ministers of justice and attorneys general Summarize Perspective Key: Historical conservative parties: Liberal-Conservative, Conservative (historical), Unionist, National Liberal and Conservative, Progressive Conservative Remove ads See also - Alberta Minister of Justice and Attorney General - Attorney General of British Columbia - Minister of Justice and Attorney General (Manitoba) - Office of the Attorney General (New Brunswick) - Minister of Justice and Public Safety and Attorney General of Newfoundland and Labrador - Minister of Justice of the Northwest Territories - Attorney General and Minister of Justice of Nova Scotia - Minister of Justice of Nunavut - Attorney General of Ontario - Minister of Justice and Public Safety and Attorney General of Prince Edward Island - Ministry of Justice (Quebec) (also as attorney general) - Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Saskatchewan - Minister of Justice (Yukon) - Named Persons v. Attorney General of Canada - Historical roles References Further reading Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads


--- [History of the Department of Justice] ---
No content


--- [Gary Anandasangaree appointed minister of justice and attorney general] ---
He is a human rights lawyer and serves as minister of Crown-Indigenous relations Gary Anandasangaree has been sworn in as Canada's new minister of justice and attorney general as Prime Minister Mark Carney reshapes the federal cabinet. Anandasangaree is a human rights lawyer and serves as minister of Crown-Indigenous relations and northern affairs. He will replace Arif Virani, one of several Trudeau-era ministers not seeking re-election. His appointment is part of Carney's efforts to assemble a streamlined cabinet that is expected to focus on economic and trade challenges, CBC News reported. Carney intends to reduce the number of ministers from 37 to a range of 15 to 20, a shift aimed at strengthening Canada's response to trade tensions with the United States. Anandasangaree was elected a member of parliament for Scarborough—Rouge Park in 2015. He has served as parliamentary secretary to the minister of Crown-Indigenous relations and to the minister of Canadian heritage and multiculturalism. Born in Sri Lanka, Anandasangaree is an internationally recognized human rights lawyer and a strong advocate for legal reform and access to justice. He has also represented Lawyers' Rights Watch Canada at the United Nations. Anandasangaree served as chair of the Canadian Tamil Youth Development Centre, president of the Canadian Tamils' Chamber of Commerce, and counsel to the Canadian Tamil Congress. He was legal counsel to the Independent Mortgage Brokers and Agents, a board member of the Youth Challenge Fund, a member of the Toronto Police Chief's Advisory Board, and a member of the United Way Newcomers Grant Program. Anandasangaree obtained his law degree from Osgoode Hall Law School and was called to the bar in 2006. He later established and managed his law firm in Scarborough. The Canadian Bar Association (CBA) welcomed Anandasangaree's appointment. "We look forward to working with him and his cabinet colleagues," said CBA president Lynne Vicars. "We also want to thank former minister Arif Virani for his commitment to improving the justice system over the past few years, including his efforts to reduce judicial vacancies and strengthen access to justice." The CBA reaffirmed its commitment to collaborating with the government to uphold the rule of law and ensure a fair and efficient legal system.
