=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Terraria Patch 1.4.5, the Bigger and Boulder Update, Sparks Highest ...]
Jan 28, 2026 — Base critical strike chance removed (was 5%). Knockback increased by 12.5%. Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. Hellwing Bow​. Fixed ...
URL: https://www.ign.com/articles/terraria-patch-145-the-bigger-and-boulder-update-sparks-highest-player-numbers-in-nearly-6-years

[1.4.5.0 - Official Terraria Wiki]
The 1.4.5.0 update, named Bigger and Boulder, is a major update that was released on January 27, 2026.
URL: https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/1.4.5.0

[Leather Whip - Terraria Wiki]
The Leather Whip is a whip which is purchased from the Zoologist for 10 anytime. Like other whips, it causes minions to focus on the last-struck enemy and increases their damage against the target.
URL: https://terraria.fandom.com/wiki/Leather_Whip

[Leather Whip - Official Terraria Wiki]
The Leather Whip is a pre-Hardmode whip with a tag effect of +4 damage, and it has a 50% multihit penalty. The Leather Whip can be purchased from the Zoologist for 10 after filling out at least 3% (17 entries) of the Bestiary.
URL: https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Leather_Whip

[Terraria Update 1.4.5 Patch Notes (Bigger & Boulder): New Features ...]
Jan 27, 2026 · Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. Birdie Rattle Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 50 Gold. Bamboo Leaf Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 75 Gold. Leather Whip Now sold by the Zoologist at 3% Bestiary completion, down from 10%. Squirrel Hook Now has a 10% Bestiary completion requirement to buy from the Zoologist. Mole Minecart
URL: https://www.bisecthosting.com/blog/terraria-update-1-4-5-patch-notes-bigger-boulder-new-features-bug-fixes-more


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Terraria Patch 1.4.5, the Bigger and Boulder Update, Sparks Highest ...] ---
Terraria 1.4.5 — dubbed the Bigger and Boulder Update — is finally here, and it's welcoming in thousands of new and returning players alike. According to SteamDB, up until the new update, Terraria averaged around 20-30,000 players at any one time, with the occasional spike in interest when new content dropped over the years. 1.4.5, however, has seen one of the biggest spikes in over a decade, hitting a release day peak of almost 165,000 players on Valve's platform. This is second only to the release of Update 1.4 in May 2020, although that coincided with lockdown, of course, which gave millions of gamers around the world a little more time to play. The true number of players will be even higher, given Terraria is also available on console and mobile, and 1.4.5 was released across platforms at the same time. The console and mobile makers do not make player numbers public. "So, 'Bigger & Boulder!', why 'Bigger & Boulder' you ask? Beyond a good bit of additional content, a lot of effort with this update went into rounding out and expanding on existing experiences," developer Re-Logic said in a post on Steam. "Things like making inventory management and crafting easier than ever. We expanded upon secret world seeds - something that we feel greatly expands the replayability/freshness of the game - while also making them more accessible than ever before. We also had a focus on improving things like atmosphere on top of our continual polish/quality of life/balance efforts - which is getting harder and harder as Terraria gets bigger! "Oh, and you might encounter some new boulders... or existing boulders in new ways. Don't say we didn't warn you! "As always, we never share everything that is in each update - not even in the "full" changelog. Part of the fun is in the discovery! Good luck and happy adventuring, Terrarians!" Terraria is pretty old at this point; IGN reviewed it 15 years ago(!), way back in 2011. Even then, though, we thought it was amazing, scoring it 9/10 and writing: "Though on the surface it looks like just another 'me too' indie game seeking to ride the coattails of Minecraft's success, Terraria expands on the familiar sandbox gameplay with a greater emphasis on combat and adventure that proves very satisfying. That's rare indeed." We have the full — and very long! — rundown of the patch notes below, courtesy of the Terraria forum, but be very cautious, as there may be some unmarked spoilers here! Terraria Bigger and Boulder 1.4.5 Patch Notes: Seeds - Added the Skyblock seed, where you start out on nothing but a small floating island. It's up to you to build everything else! - Special seeds can now be combined! Some combinations may have some interesting interactions… - Added a new seed selection window to the world creation menu, which allows you to easily enable special seeds. - Added secret seeds. Items - Added 650+ new items. - Added 9 new whips. - Added over 60 new hairstyles! - Added 22 new furniture sets. - Added 20 new paintings. - Added Dead Cells crossover content, including: five new weapons, a buff station, a vanity set, an accessory, a loyal pet and a new way to display your items in the world. - Added Palworld crossover content, including 5 pals and a vanity outfit. - Added four new transformation mounts. - Added two new Pylons. - Added Stress Ball. - Added Magic String. - Added Strung Counterweight. - Added Roller Skates. - Added Prospector armor set. - Added Captain armor set. - Added Jungle Juice. - Added Torch God's Flavor. - Added Lucky Clover. - Added Raven Feather. - Added Pretty Mirror. - Added Blackened Fish. - Added Rock Candy. - Added Shimmer Gun. - Added Wall Racer Car. - Added Acorn Slingshot. - Added Slime Spear. - Added Slime Whip. - Added Super Bomb. - Added Freeze Bomb. - Added Mud Ball. - Added Rainbow Glowsticks. - Added Toybreaker Brick. - Added Sharp Spike blocks. - Added Dull Team Blocks. - Added Cloud Platforms. - Added Pink Phaseblade and Phasesaber. - Added Chlorophyte Visor. - Added the Mitey Titey, a new tool for placing decorative stalagmites and -tites. - Added the Portable Kiln, a new tool for placing decorative pots. - Added some memorabilia from the great Tree vs Axe War of 2023. - Added decorative Demon/Crimson Altars. - Added decorative Cobwebs. - Added Shimmerfall Blocks and Walls. - Added Magic Shimmer Dropper. - Added Pink and White Banners. - Added Heroicis' set. - Added CRT Monolith. - Added Retro Monolith. - Added Bikini, Swimsuit and Swimtrunks. - Added Lilac Dusk Vanity. - Added Hallowed Crown. - Added Welding Mask. - Added Chicken Bones’ and Kazzymodus’ developer armor sets. - Gave Skeletron a fancy new hat. - Added vanity set for Terraria Enthusiasts. - Added Luna’s Runic Pixie Vanity. - Added spectating of other players - either via the new Scrying Orb, or by haunting them after being slain! - Kites and critters can now be placed in the world as persistent background objects. You can place them from the hotbar by right-clicking. - Mannequins can now hold items and mounts, and pose with those items when hammered. - Rubblemaker can now place Abigail's Flower, Life Fruits, Jungle Rose, Nature's Gift, Jungle Spores, Glow Tulip, Fallen Logs (that do not attract fairies), Oasis Plants, Water Bolt, and the Terragrim. - Sandcastle Bucket, Garden Gnomes and Lawn Flamingoes now use the up/down keys to cycle through placement styles (like the Rubblemaker). - Items that can cycle through placement styles will now only do so if they’re the currently selected item. - Building items that consume materials (such as the Rubblemaker and the Paint Brush) now show how much material they have available on their hotbar item icon. - Paladin's shield now displays its range, and feedback when it is used. Getting killed by the Paladin’s Shield now displays a unique death message. - The Zombie Arm can now be held out, and throws complementary bits and pieces when swung. - The Paintball Gun now paints Slimes on hit. - Normal and biome torches can now be converted when placed. - Conveyor Belts can now carry items upwards. - When spawning NPCs on Conveyor Belts, the block directly below the belt is now used to determine which NPC to spawn. - Falling blocks (Sand, Silt, Slush, etc.) will no longer settle on Conveyor Belts but remain in their item form. - Bricks made from Hardmode ore are now immune to bombs. - Brown Solution now changes Old Stone Wall and Craggy Stone Walls into their unsafe variants. - Green Solution now turns safe Jungle Walls into their unsafe variants. - Demon Conch will now teleport players to the outer edges of the Underworld if there is no valid destination in the middle. It also no longer avoids teleporting you onto platforms. - Pets and minions can now walk through closed doors and tall gates. - Placed items that can be used to craft potions (e.g. Bottle, Pink Vase) can no longer be removed by interacting in order to support the new crafting menu filters (they can still be mined as normal). - The Whoopie Cushion can now be equipped. - Empty Buckets left out in the rain will now fill up. - The Beach Ball now bounces off of enemies and villagers. - Music Boxes now count as vanity. - Crystal Block now merges with Dirt. - Yoyo Counterweights will now override the visuals of the Yoyo Bag if placed in a vanity slot. - Grates with liquid in them can no longer be block swapped. - Grates with objects on them can now be properly destroyed by merging liquids. - Gelatin Crystal now glows in the dark. - Reef Chest now has a more appropriate map color. - All Living Fire blocks can now be sloped. - Radio Thing is now placeable. - Water Gun, Slime Gun, and Portal Gun can now be placed on weapon racks. - You can now attach furniture to Wooden Spikes if you feel so inclined. - Items in the world now stop reacting to fluids when being picked up. NPCs - Added Moss Zombie. - Added Pufferfish. - Added Orca. - Added a boss damage tracker that tracks how much damage each player deals during a boss fight. Type /bossdamage in the chat to view the result of the last fight(s). - Slimes can now contain more items. - Fish now change direction randomly when they flop on the floor. - The Martian Saucer is no longer listed as a boss in the Bestiary. - The Bestiary now properly reflects the incomprehensible nature of the Torch God. - Villagers now wait a minute to look for a new house after being evicted. World - Lightning strikes can now occur during storms. - Added new Dungeon entrance variants. - Cracked Dungeon Bricks now hint at their fragility. - You can now start a Slime Rain by shimmering a Slime Crown. - Trees are now converted to and from Palm Trees when using Yellow, Brown and White solution, rather than being destroyed. - Corruption and Crimson Grass can now infect Mowed Grass, turning it into normal Corrupt/Crimson grass. - Blooming Blinkroot is now brighter. - You can no longer attach items to boulders. Rubble and pressure plates will no longer generate on top of boulders. - Jungle Plants and Vines can now grow on Lihzahrd Brick. - Cactus, stalagmites/-tites, shells, coral, antlion larva, alchemy herbs and jungle plants now take on the paint and coating of the block they grow on. - Safe Underground Desert walls now stop you from being considered to be in the Underground Desert. - The Constant’s filter is now hidden when mixed with other world seeds. - Falling Stars are now considered as traps - they’re still friendly, though! - Liquid inside Bubbles is no longer cleared when leaving and rejoining a world. - The Aether biome visuals are now suppressed when in the Dungeon. - Boosted nature’s growth on the surface during rainy times. - Worlds now support up to 32,000 signs, up from 1,000. - Meteors now avoid Demon/Crimson Altars. - You can no longer stand on the bottom of the world. We suggest you don't try to, either. - World Globes can now assign the same forest biome to different parts of the world. - Improved how liquids merge during world gen, reducing the likelihood of out-of-place liquid patches (e.g. Honey in Granite biomes). - When two different liquids collide during world gen they now leave less of a mess. - Living Mahogany Tree chests now always contain Jungle loot. - Small and medium sand piles now generate in Underground Deserts. - Newly generated boulder traps now use actuators instead of Active Stone Blocks. - The max surface height of newly generated small worlds has been lowered to prevent sky enemies from spawning too close to the surface. - Microbiomes (e.g. Detonator traps) will no longer generate on top of boulder traps. - Living Mahogany Wands are now guaranteed in every world. - More boulder. Wiring & Mechanisms - When Chests receive a wire signal they now pick up all nearby dropped items. Great for automated farms! - Extractinators now process items from nearby chests (up to two blocks away) when they receive a wire signal. - Timers can now be freely placed without requiring an anchor block. - Inactive Stone Blocks now share the same restrictions on actuating beneath protected blocks (e.g. Lihzahrd Altar, Mannequins) as actuators. - Inlet and Outlet Pump items are now immune to lava. Tooltips & Clarifications - Items that interact with wire now have a "Wireable" tooltip. Improved the tooltips of several of these items. - Items that can be extractinated now have a tooltip to indicate this. - Reworded the “No stats will be gained” tooltip on items in vanity slots. Vanity items no longer show this tooltip while in a vanity slot. - Clarified the Inlet and Outlet Pump's tooltips to make clear it can transport any liquid, not just water. - Bat Bat's tooltip now clarifies it always heals on hit rather than only sometimes. - Improved the consistency of some set bonus effect tooltips. - Clarified the Beetle Shell and Solar Flare armor tooltips (functionality unchanged). - Whips now show their use time in their tooltip. - Bubbles now have a tooltip to explain their function. - Actuators now have the "Can be placed" tooltip. - Removed "Can be placed" tooltip from wand-type items. - Blade staff now properly mentions that it ignores some enemy defense (functionality unchanged). - Added usage tooltips to grappling hooks. - Improved platform tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved bed tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved sawmill tooltip to clarify its purpose. - Clarified harmful blocks tooltips to mention their danger. - Clarified tooltips of minion slots granted by several sources. - Improved Solar Tablet tooltip. - Bug Net's tooltip now mentions it can catch bait. - Improved some personal storage items' tooltips. - Personal storage tooltips (e.g. Piggy Bank) now mention their stored coins can be used in shops. - Improved Gills Potion tooltip. - Improved Lavaproof Bug Net tooltip. - Improved immunizing accessories (e.g. Bezoar) tooltips. - Improved Discount Card tooltip. - Improved Sandstorm in a Balloon tooltip. - Improved Flame Waker's Boots tooltip. - Improved Sandcastle Bucket tooltip. - Cloud blocks & platforms now mention they prevent fall damage in their tooltip. - Improved Yellow Horseshoe Balloon tooltip. - Clarified Brain of Confusion tooltip. - Improved Sundial & Moondial tooltip. - Improved Planter Box tooltip. - The "not enough NPCs nearby" Pylon message now clarifies NPCs need to live near them, not just be near them. - Added flavor text to the Fertilizers. - Added flavor text to the Fruit Salad. - Fixed punctuation issues with several tooltips. Journey Mode - Trashing an item now automatically attempts to research it. - Researching items now also contributes to the research progress of your online team members. - Partially researched items now show up in the duplication menu (but can’t be duplicated). - Duplicating an item now gives only one of that item if you don't need multiple (such as single-use upgrade items). - Deerclops, Eye of Cthulhu and Mech bosses no longer randomly spawn when the spawn rate slider is set to 0x. - The difficulty slider now more closely matches the scaling of Expert and Master worlds. Quality of Life - Items can now be crafted from nearby chests! This can be toggled on/off as desired. - Right-clicking a crafting station now opens the crafting menu, showing only the items that can be crafted at that station. - When the Goblin Tinkerer reforges an item and gets the best available prefix, a special effect plays and the reforge button is briefly blocked to prevent unintentional further reforges. - Individual armor set pieces now show the set bonus in their tooltip. - Pylons now take priority over Wormhole Potions when clicking on either to teleport on the map. - Almost every item in the game can now stack to 9999, including (prefixed) weapons and equipment. - Added a “Similar Stack to Nearby Chests” mode, which aside from default quick stack behaviour also tries to put items in chests with similar items (for example, putting Iron Ore with Copper Ore). You can toggle between quick stacking modes by right-clicking the Quick Stack button. - The housing query now gives visual feedback on the suitability of any queried space. - Houses no longer require at least one solid, non-platform block to be valid. - The housing query now indicates when a house is invalid because it does not have a spot to stand on. - When holding an equipable item in the cursor, usable equipment slots are now highlighted, and others are dimmed. - Greatly improved how the game handles too many items being on the ground: when the item cap is hit, items now try to stack with nearby items to make room. - Improved the sorting behaviour of many items. - Boss bags now appear on the minimap. - Mining boulders that you are standing on no longer damages you if the boulder has no space to roll. - When you try to switch to another hotbar slot while already using an item, you will now switch once the item finishes its current use rather than when you stop using the item. - Improved the indicator for the selected hotbar item when overriding the default selected item (e.g. when using smart select). - When trying to Quick Stack, there is now a visual indicator on chests that can’t be stacked to because they are in use by another player. - When assigning a spawn point at a bed fails, you'll now be provided the reason. - Minion buffs now show how many of that minion you have summoned. - When you respawn, any minions you had active when you were slain are now automatically resummoned. - If you are slain while holding an item in your cursor, the item will now be put back into your inventory, if possible. - Torches now have placement previews. - Block swapping a platform onto a sloped block will now clear the slope. - You will now automatically join your last team when (re)joining a world. - Improved Smart Cursor behaviour when placing platforms, and added an arrow visual to clarify the placement direction. - Hovering over a buff icon while using an item will no longer interrupt usage of said item. - Interacting with villagers and items while holding an item on the cursor no longer throws said item. - Equipment in vanity slots now shows its full tooltip text. - Quick swapping now supports vanity accessories. - You can now dismount a minecart by interacting with the track (dismount key still works as well). - Ropes can now pass through up to five passable blocks (such as Platforms and Minecart Tracks). - Ropes can now pass through Planter Boxes. You can now also block swap Rope with Planter Boxes if there's already a Planter Box adjacent to it, like you can with Platforms. - Extending a rope is no longer blocked by objects such as cobwebs and plants. - Eternia Crystals can now be used from the Void Bag. - If you are grappled to the ground, you will no longer jump by default when pressing jump. You will still jump if you're holding the Up input. - When you get hurt, you'll now hear your character's hurt sound, regardless of where the camera is. - Slain Hardcore player's ghosts now have their names displayed in multiplayer. - Right clicking any search bar now clears it, and clicking outside the search bar clears focus away from it. - Emote commands are no longer case sensitive. - Improved "Frame skip: Subtle" setting to reduce stuttering. - Servers now save the world when the last player leaves. - The map now more consistently updates when changes happen in remote sections of the world (e.g. plant growth). - Camera Mode screenshots now only capture blocks that are fully on screen, which fixes some visual issues. - Certain visual effects that previously did not appear in Camera Mode snapshots now do appear if the entire snapshotted area is also on screen. - Camera Mode captures can now capture the space sky and stars if the center of the capture is in space. - World maps from Mobile Terraria are now supported on PC Terraria. - You can now join your own servers via Join via Steam. - Added failsafes to prevent losing save files when failing to save to a full Steam cloud storage. - Making changes to folder-based resource packs while the game is running now immediately updates the content in-game. - Added recycle bin support for OSX and Linux. UI Changes - Greatly overhauled the crafting window, added a search bar and filter tabs. - Added a special Banner Menu. Whenever you gain a banner it is no longer placed directly into your inventory but stored in this menu, where you can retrieve it at will. This does not affect any previously earned banners. - The character creation menu now lets you choose the type and pitch of your hurt sound. This is also available through dressers. - Added outfit preview buttons to character creation. - The character creation menu now shows a confirmation prompt when trying to exit without saving. - The character creation menu's tab icons now have hover tooltips. - Various tips are now shown during character creation. - The world creation progress bar’s accuracy and messages have been improved. - When generating a world with a random evil, the progress bar is now neutral to avoid spoiling which evil is being generated. - Your players and worlds are now sorted by most recently used (favorites still come first), and any freshly generated world will appear at the top for ease of access. - Added marker icons for previously visited and newly generated worlds in the menu. - Quick trash settings can now be changed while in a world. - Improved Pylon overview in the map. - Shops now have a visual indicator showing how NPC happiness is affecting prices. - The Savings display now caps the amount of Platinum Coins to 999, to prevent overflows. - Coins in inventory now animate when gained and when spent. - The defense counter now has a tooltip showing how much damage it effectively blocks. Its appearance now changes based on world difficulty. - Homeless NPCs now have a Housing dialogue option instead of Happiness, containing instructions on how to build a suitable house. - Reordered the NPCs in the Housing menu so they now appear in their approximate unlock order. - Improved offscreen team member indicators on wide screens. - Overhead chat and multiplayer nameplates now also appear above the player in reverse gravity. - Added tooltips for the Team and PVP icons. - Faraway villagers will now move smoother on the minimap. - Players are now hidden from the world map while slain. - Map icons now match the map's transparency. - When renaming a character with the virtual keyboard, the original name is now prefilled. - The Packet Stacks menu (F8) now has an instruction on how to close it (we've all been there). - Added a new FPS diagnostics view, which can be toggled with F7. - The FPS display (F10) now also shows your UPS (Updates Per Second). - Added an error message for when the Host & Play server fails to start. - Added sounds when passing over most interface buttons. Gamepad Improvements - Added icons for Playstation and Nintendo Switch controllers. They can be toggled in the Keybind menu. - Using any ruler option on gamepad now allows the cursor to reach the entire screen. - If you are locked on to an enemy using a gamepad, the Rod of Discord/Harmony will now teleport you to your cursor rather than to said enemy. - Improved the housing menu's gamepad support. - Improved gamepad hints for the Journey menu and the Bestiary. - Improved the in-game settings menu accessibility for gamepad users. - Prioritized Drop and Transfer hints on gamepad when holding an item on the cursor. - Items crafted via Quick Craft now temporarily highlight their item slot. Art & Visuals - Added Villager Portraits! - Added sunrise and sunset visuals! - Added nighttime aurora effects to the Snow biome! - Added new backgrounds to various biomes. - Fish now visually appear in the water while you are fishing. - Added new ambient insects and falling rubble to the world. - The Barrel and Trash Can now have opening and closing animations. - The moon now properly obstructs stars behind it from view. - Polished Moon Lord. - Polished many banner sprites. - Polished the existing pot sprites, and added a few new variants. - Polished Lihzahrd Temple content. - Polished the Demon Altar, Crimson Altar, Shadow Orb and Crimson Heart (both the background item and the light pet) art. - Polished Trophies and Weapon Racks. - Polished Bars, Bar Stools and Banquet Tables. - Polished Hanging Skeletons and Catacombs. - Polished Hornets. - Polished Ancient Manipulator. - Polished Fire Imp, Imp Staff and Imp minion. - Polished Baby Slime minion. - Polished Alchemy Table, Imbuing Station and Bewitching Table. - Polished the various Cloud blocks and walls. - Polished spider stalactites. - Polished sand piles. - Polished Sea Horse cage. - Polished Fairy Log. - Polished Drill Containment Unit buff icon. - Polished Jim's developer set. - Updated some of the credits scenes art. - Updated Chlorophyte Dye's glowmask. - Updated the Blood & Gore dust filter to be more accurate. - Painted Mushroom furniture lighting now matches the paint's color. - Shroomite Plating Wall lighting now matches the paint's color. - Improved Influx Waver projectile’s visual animation. - Improved the Step Stool animation. - Equipping the Ghost Shirt will now show the player bare legged. - Spectre Pants and Cenx's Dress Pants no longer draw shoes underneath, like other robe-bottom pants. - Added mining dust to (Large) Bamboo Blocks. Audio - Added new boss music for King Slime, Eater of Worlds, Queen Bee, Skeletron, the Twins, the Destroyer, Skeletron Prime and the Lunatic Cultist. - Adjusted the Eater of Worlds' digging sound. - Updated thunder sound effects. - Added a sound effect for when the player is starving on The Constant worlds. - Improved sound for item trashing. - Sonar Potions now play a sound cue when you hook a fish. - Added audio feedback to several buttons in the inventory. - Added new sounds for drills and chainsaws. - Added a new sound for Lilith's Necklace. - Added a splash sound when catching a fish. - Reduced the loudness of the Flameburst Tower. - Added a fuse sound to bombs. - Added a reel sound to kites. - Added a new sound for the Flintlock Pistol and Musket. - Added a new sound for the Leaf Blower. - Added a new sound for the Unicorn on a Stick. - All sounds now pan/attenuate consistently regardless of game resolution. - Added a configuration option ("TitleMusic") that allows you to choose which music to play on the main menu: "Current" (Journey's End), "Old" (original), "Console" or "Random". Localization - Added Japanese, Korean and Traditional Chinese localization. - Implemented a great deal of community contributed suggestions and improvements to our German, Spanish, French, Polish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian and Simplified Chinese localizations! - Improved localizations to support variants for composite content, like prefixes. - You can now use English chat commands regardless of what language Terraria is set to. - Renamed Heavy Work Bench to Heavy Assembler, as it does not function as a Work Bench. - Renamed Crimson Bunny Kite to Vicious Bunny Kite to match the NPC. - Renamed Martian Brainscrambler Banner to Martian Brain Scrambler Banner to match the NPC. - Renamed Meteor Toilet to Meteorite Toilet for consistency with Meteorite furniture. Performance/Modding - Improved performance around many parts of Terraria. Most notably around trying to achieve frame rendering stability, and reducing small freezes. - Folder based resource packs are now hot-reloadable. Changing most content in the folder will make Terraria attempt to reload it instantly! This should dramatically help iterating on localizations/art changes quickly! - Introduced several new systems to replace previously hard-coded logic. (e.g. Wings, Armor sets, Fishing, Horizons, NPC chat commands, and more have been made easier to check and modify/replace). - Included a new interactive world gen debugging tool (available through modding), and improved world generation’s determinism and consistency. - Included a suite of internal dev commands for modded use (available through modding). These are primarily aimed at debugging content in different situations, such as multiplayer. - Fixed an issue that caused certain weapon projectiles that perform multiple updates per frames to have a lower hit cooldown than intended. In practice, the DPS of almost all of these weapons is unaffected by this change, with the exception of the Deadly Sphere Staff: its damage has been increased to compensate (overall DPS remains the same). - Now launches a bone projectile when striking an enemy. - Attack speed increased by 12.5%. - Can now only have spear-type modifiers. - Attack speed increased by ~17%. - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. The weapon will embed itself in the ground and will continuously damage any enemy that touches it. Can be recalled by pressing the attack button again. - Now has a 50% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Range increased by 66.67%. - Bolt damage increased from 150% of weapon damage to 160%. - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Attack speed increased by ~13%. - Now has 7% critical strike chance. - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Can now be autoswung. - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. - Attack speed reduced by ~8%. - Is now a melee weapon. - Now deals damage in an area. - Damage increased from 20 to 32. - Attack speed increased by 20%. - Projectile speed increased by ~70%. - Knockback reduced by ~43%. - Now has a 5% chance to inflict the Confused debuff on enemies. - Now inflicts the Tipsy debuffs on players and villagers. - Now has a ~70% chance to not consume Ale on use. - Sell price increased from 1 Silver to 25 Silver. - Striking an enemy now briefly increases the weapon’s damage by 12% to a maximum of 50%. This extra damage decays at a rate of 30% per second. - Confused debuff chance increased from 90% to 100%. - Stars that spawn when the cursor is on or directly above/below the player now have their direction randomised rather than always falling to the direction the player is facing. - Synergy increased by 100%. - The explosion on hit now uses local immunity rather than global immunity. In practical terms, this means a struck enemy can now be damaged by both the explosion and attacks from minions and sentries at the same time. - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. - Damage reduced from 41 to 39. - Range increased by 20%. - Velocity decreased by ~12%. - Lifetime increased from 8 seconds to 16 seconds. - Velocity increased by ~13%. - Lifetime increased from 10 seconds to 30 seconds. - Damage increased from 16 to 40. - Can now strike villagers, dealing 1 damage. - Hitting an enemy or villager will cause them to drop a small amount of copper coins. - Sell price increased from 50 Silver to 2 Gold. - Now creates an explosion upon hitting solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Now pierces enemies. - Now spews 1 to 3 fire projectiles when thrust. - The beam projectile can now penetrate once, and bounce up to 3 times. - Damage increased from 38 to 43. - The orb projectile is now reflected by Shimmer. - Tapping the attack button now throws the Paladin Hammer out much farther (it can be recalled in flight by pressing the attack button again). - Now creates an explosion that damages nearby enemies upon hitting a solid block. - Now applies the Broken Armor debuff, reducing defense by 20. - Damage increased from 90 to 100. - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. - Now creates an explosion upon hitting enemies or solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Fixed the alternate fire projectiles being considered ranged projectiles. They now use the player’s melee critical strike chance rather than the ranged critical strike chance, and can inflict debuffs from Flasks and the Magma Stone. - Now has an alternate weapon mode in which it behaves like a flail. You can freely switch between modes by right-clicking the item. The original version has been renamed to Flairoon. - Bubbles from both modes now bounce once. - Bubbles from both modes can now apply the on-hit effects from Flasks, the Frost armor set and the Magma Stone. - Shroomite Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. - Several weapons that would be too strongly affected by this change have been adjusted to compensate: - Piranha Gun: damage increased from 38 to 40. - Elf Melter: damage increased from 53 to 57. - Sniper Rifle: damage increased from 185 to 200. - Aerial Bane: damage decreased from 39 to 38. - Magic Quiver now applies its damage bonus to arrows as well as bows. - Fixed an issue that would cause weapons that use non-standard ammo (e.g. gel) to deal 1 less damage than intended. This affects the following weapons: Star Shooter, Super Star Shooter, Sandgun, Flamethrower, and Elf Melter. - Lifetime increased by ~33%. - Can now be auto-reused. - The harpoon can now be retracted by letting go of the attack button. - Can now penetrate up two enemies before retracting (upon hitting the third). - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. - Projectile speed increased by ~36%. - Critical strike chance increased from 7% to 8%. - Now has a 6% critical strike chance. - Projectile speed increased by 20%. - Firing the Revolver just as it comes off cooldown now gradually increases its attack speed (up to 100%) and critical strike chance (up to 20%). Does not work with autofire. - Base critical strike chance removed (was 5%). - Knockback increased by 12.5%. - Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. - Fixed Hellwing Bow being much more inaccurate than intended when not using Wooden Arrows. - Main projectile now pierces up to one enemy. Cursed fire no longer pierces. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Damage reduced from 10 to 7. - Now display a visual effect when splitting. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Max bounces/penetrations reduced from 6 to 4. - Damage is now reduced by 15% on every terrain bounce. - Dart now instantly rotates when bouncing. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Can now be used while submerged in lava. - Damage increased from 29 to 36. - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. - Will now re-fire Piranhas that have returned to the player as long as the attack button is held. - Now inflict their debuff in PvP. - Will now ensure their arrows do not spawn inside blocks and be immediately destroyed when firing parallel to the ground. - Damage increased from 44 to 60. - Candy corns now use local immunity frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by multiple candy corns (and other sources of damage) at the same time. - Lifetime reduced from 10 seconds to 5 seconds. - Damage increased from 65 to 85. - Damage increased from 31 to 38. - Chance to save ammo increased from 50% to ~67%. - Mana cost reduced from 7 to 6. - Damage increased from 17 to 20. - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage and penetrate more enemies with distance. - Now react appropriately to lava. - Can now be used while submerged in lava. - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage and penetrate more enemies with distance. - Now has no mana cost when the Meteor Set is equipped. - Now pierces up to 2 enemies, up from 1. - Damage reduced from 35 to 30. - Projectile speed increased by 25%. - Damage increased from 32 to 35. - Initial projectile speed increased by ~31%. - Now bounces on platforms. - Increased maximum note speed by ~50%, and reduced minimum note speed by ~60%. - Added new Summon prefixes! - Mana costs have been removed. - Any existing summoning weapon with a mana cost reducing prefix (e.g. Mythical) will receive a random new prefix upon loading the world. - Recipe cost increased from 6 Flinx Fur to 10 Flinx Fur. - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Now has knockback when attacking. - Removed 25% tag damage penalty. - Damage increased from 40 to 55 (DPS unchanged, see Global Mechanics section for explanation). - Different whip tags can no longer stack with one another. Hitting an enemy with a whip now clears the effect of any other whip that is active. - Whips now use varying arcs when swung. - Damage increased from 27 to 29. - Damage reduced from 165 to 160. - Tag critical strike chance reduced from 12% to 10%. - Damage increased from 100 to 110. - Tag effect damage increased from 10 to 15. - Damage reduced from 180 to 170. - Multihit penalty increased from 10% to 20%. - Now grants 4 defense. - Now reduces trap damage by 50%, and caps it at 300. - Now reduces trap debuff duration by 50%. - Armor pieces now have a shimmer loop. - Now also removes the mana cost of the Laser Rifle. - Now grants immunity to burning blocks. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. - Now applies its damage bonus to arrows as well as bows. - Damage increased from 80% of yoyo damage to 100%. - Velocity increased by 100%. - Now increases max yoyo lifetime by 50%. - Spores now use static immunity frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by spores and other sources of damage at the same time (but not multiple spores). - Now has a visual effect that allows both the wearer and other players to see if they are near or in range. - No longer triggers when allies take damage from non-enemy hazards. - No longer triggers on instant kill effects (e.g Dungeon Guardian). - Self damage can no longer be dodged. - Self damage no longer generates immunity frames. - Will now only proc every 0.67 seconds. - No longer trigger when taking damage from non-enemy hazards. - Now also applies to the Nurse’s healing service and the Stylist’s hairstyle shop. - Now functional while in vanity slots. - Can now fully negate fall damage, rather than only reduce it to 1. - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 10 blocks. - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 20 blocks. - Now grants immunity to burning blocks. - Now grants lava vision and increased jump height when swimming in lava. - Water walking is now disabled while mounted. - Fixed the Basilisk’s innate double jump being overridden by double jump accessories (e.g. Cloud in a Bottle). They now stack as intended. - Can now dig falling blocks such as Sand, Silt and Slush. - You can now use Pylons during boss fights and invasions. - Shimmer invincibility no longer applies to bosses, invasion enemies or the Torch God. You cannot hide! - Can now teleport to platforms. - Now also drops Unholy Arrows on Crimson worlds. - You can now dash through Deerclops’ legs using a Shield of Cthulhu or Solar armor (previously you would collide with it). - Fixed Shadow Hands appearing on top of non-targeted players in multiplayer. - Hand movement when slamming is now a bit smarter, avoiding an issue that caused it to fly off-screen. - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. - Fixed Duke Fishron transitioning too quickly from its final ram attack to the Cthulunado/Bubble Circle in phase 2 (does not affect Expert+ difficulty). - Firing rate reduced by 25%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~30%. - Firing range reduced by ~10%. - Accuracy slightly decreased. - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow speed reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow damage reduced from 80 to 70. - Firing range reduced by ~20%. - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~20%. - Bullet accuracy decreased. - Cannonball charge time increased from 1 second to 3 seconds. - Interrupting the Pirate Captain while he is charging his cannonball attack now reduces the charge time by 0.33 seconds, to a minimum of 1 second. Once he fires a cannonball, the charge time will reset back to 3 seconds. - Cannonball speed increased by ~40%. - Expert+ health scaling reduced from 100% of base health to 85%. - Critters, regular Mimics, Lost Girls, Slimes, Gnomes and Bound NPCs are now affected by Conveyor Belts. - Antlions can now spit Sand while on Conveyor Belts. - Spawn chance from Jungle plants reduced by 25%. - Can now drop items in Hardmode again, but can not drop Souls or Biome Keys. - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. Now more likely to spawn for lucky players. - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. - Golem Head drop chance increased from 10% to ~33.33%. - Now has a 80% higher chance to spawn if there’s chum in the water. - Now drop Gel. - Can now spawn on Ice and Snow blocks outside of the Snow biome. - Spawn chance reduced by ~25%. - Spawn chance reduced by ~33%. - Can now tolerate slightly windier conditions. - Can now arrive even when there are no available houses. Only one will arrive per day, and they will leave if they do not have a house by nightfall. - Villagers now take priority over Town Pets when respawning. - Can now attack enemies while talking to players. - Defeating a boss now also gives each villager a 1.5% attack speed bonus. - Now also gain stat bonuses from defeating King Slime, Deerclops and Duke Fishron. - Will now avoid Stinky players. - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health regeneration by 500%. - Increased arrow damage from 8 to 12. - Dryad’s Ward defense bonus to other villagers increased from 6 to 10 in Classic difficulty, 10 to 15 in Expert and 14 to 20 in Master. - Defeating Queen Slime, Duke Fishron and Empress of Light now boost the damage of Dryad's Ward by 15% each (same as other Hardmode bosses). - Villager count requirement to move in increased from 14 to 20, to account for Town Pets & Slimes. - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health from 250 to 500. - Increased health regeneration by 900%. - Increased attack rate by 200%. - Increased knockback resistance from 50% to 75%. - Tombstones can now be broken three times as fast (no change on For The Worthy worlds). - Ghost spawn chance from breaking a Tombstone reduced from 50% in all difficulties to 12.5% in Classic and 25% in Expert (Master unchanged). - Ghosts that spawn from broken Tombstones now only care about their initial target. Once said target is slain, they will attempt to flee. - Ghosts no longer pick up money on Expert+ difficulty. - The Peace Candle now reduces the boosted spawn rates of Graveyard biomes by 33%. - Newly generated Mythril, Orichalcum, Adamantite and Titanium ore patches are now the same size as Cobalt and Palladium patches. - Windy days and Rain now only occur when there is a player in the world with at least one Life Crystal consumed. - Rain is now less obscuring while a boss fight or event is ongoing. - You can now blockswap blocks that are touching lava. - All multi-hook grappling hooks can now have multiple hooks in flight, rather than just one. - When jumping from a grapple, you now jump the full height rather than half. - Velocity and range increased by ~7%. - Axes with higher axe power now have a higher chance to get extra wood when cutting trees. - Can now cut large Jungle plants. - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it’s held. - Axe power reduced from 150% to 125%. - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it’s held. - Now only drops Hardmode ores when in Hardmode. - Now douses torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Wet debuff now gives immunity to On Fire!, Hellfire and Burning debuffs. - Now ignites torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Slimed debuff now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite and Shadowflame debuffs. - Slimed debuff duration reduced from 25 seconds to 3 seconds. - Now has a slightly bigger area of effect. - Now converts walls, and also purifies Hallow blocks and walls. - Now have a slightly bigger area of effect. - Venom Dart Traps now require a Mythril Anvil to craft. - Cannons are now fired by using torches rather than ammo. They can also be fired using a wire signal (cooldown is shared between cannons). Cannonballs are now a decorative item. - Snowballs fired by a wired Snowball Cannon now deal damage. It shares its fire cooldown with the cannons. - Lihzahrd Flame Traps now inflict the Hellfire debuff. - Using all three lava fishing enablers (Hotline Fishing Hook, Lavaproof Fishing Hook, lava critter bait) will now give you an additional bonus when fishing in lava. - You can now gain the Fishing Power bonus of sitting from any chair, not just toilets. - Flying a kite now grants the High Spirits buff, increasing movement speed, mining speed, placement speed and luck. - Kites are now automatically deployed when AFKing for more than 3 minutes. - No longer makes you fully invisible on your own client, so you can better see what you are doing (you are still fully invisible to other players). - Getting hit while invisible now reduces the remaining buff time by 1 minute rather than removing it outright. - Now reduces the time to answer a call of nature by 75%. - Now can also affect villagers (via the Ale Tosser), granting a 10% damage, defense and attack speed boost. - Now reduces your luck. - Can now be removed by water. - Now increases Villager happiness by 10%. - Now gives immunity to On Fire!, Hellfire and Burning debuffs. - Now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite and Shadowflame debuffs. - Now grants Well Fed (tier 1) instead of Plenty Satisfied (tier 2). Duration unchanged. - Recipe cost increased from 10 Pumpkins to 15. - Healing increased from 20 to 30. - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 45 seconds. - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 40 seconds. - Now resets the player’s hunger in The Constant worlds. - Buff now only applies to melee items and projectiles as intended. - Defense bonus increased from 6 to 8. - Damage bonus increased from 20% to 25%. - Now increases villager health by 250 each. - Now grants a 20% attack speed bonus (stacks multiplicatively). - No longer drops Bacon. - Drop chance from Mother Slime, Snow Flinx, Undead Viking and Armored Viking reduced from 2% to 1%. - Drop chance from bat enemies reduced from 1% to 0.5%. - Drop chance from Salamanders, Crawdads and Shellies increased from 4% to 6.67%. - Drop chance from all bats reduced from 0.4% to 0.33%. - Drop chance from Snow Flinxes increased from 2% to 4%. - Drop chance from the Tavernkeep reduced from 16.67% to 12.5%. - Drop chance from fishing increased by ~33%. - Now available as a drop when fishing in the Dungeon. - Can now also drop from pots in the Cavern layer. - Drop chance from Enchanted Sword Shrines increased from 2% to 3.33%. - Drop chance from Rock Golems increased from 10% to ~33.33%. - Now drops from both Lamia variants at the same rate (2.5%). - Now drops from the Empress of Light in a stack of 3, up from 1. - Now drop from Ogres. - Now has a ~3.33% chance to be dropped by King Slime. - Can now be crafted at a Heavy Assembler (the crafting station formerly known as Heavy Workbench) in Graveyards. - Now also sold by the Steampunker in the Jungle after Golem has been defeated. - Can now be crafted at Lihzahrd Furnaces from 10 Lihzahrd Bricks. - Pink Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 1.33% to 2.5%. - Black Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 6.22% to 7.5%. - White Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 12.44% to 15%. - Replaced the ore and bar drops by Hellstone and Hellstone Bars respectively. - Now have a 5% chance to contain Hellforges. - Now have a 50% chance to contain Dungeon Bricks. - Biome Fishing Crates now have a chance to contain paintings from their biomes. - Now replaces Suspicious Looking Eyes in Ice Chests. - Now crafted at a Work Bench rather than chairs with tables (these are no longer used for any crafting). - Can now also be crafted at Living Looms. - Can now also be crafted at Fountains. - Now require 15 gems to craft, up from 10. - Recipe cost increased from 3996 Wooden Arrows/Musket Balls to 9999. - 1 Worm Tooth now makes 20 Arrows (up from 5), and 1 Vertebrae now makes 10 (up from 5). Wooden Arrow cost increased to match. - Now requires an Anvil to craft. - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Can now also be crafted using Glowing Mushrooms and Gel. - Can now also be crafted from Golden Carp. - Can now also be crafted from Owl. - Can now also be crafted from Ebonstone, Crimstone and Pearlstone. - Recipe now crafts 2 Stink Potions, up from 1. - Now sold by villagers regardless of how happy they are (there do still need at least 2 other villagers in their vicinity). - Now also available from the Traveling Merchant when King Slime or Deerclops have been defeated. - Buy price reduced from 10 Gold to 5 Gold. - Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. - Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 50 Gold. - Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 75 Gold. - Now sold by the Zoologist at 3% Bestiary completion, down from 10%. - Now has a 10% Bestiary completion requirement to buy from the Zoologist. - Now sold by the Zoologist at 25% Bestiary completion, down from 35%. - The Dryad now sells all of the Planter Boxes without any boss requirements. - Now sold by the Dryad in pre-Hardmode (the Hallowed trees still have a Hardmode requirement). - Now sold by the Goblin Tinkerer in pre-Hardmode. - Sell price increased from 1 Silver to 25 Silver. - Sell price increased from 50 Silver to 2 Gold. - Sell price increased from 2 Gold 50 Silver to 7 Gold 50 Silver to match the Molten Charm. - Sell price increased from 5 Gold to 9 Gold. - No longer sold by Steampunker. - Sell price reduced from 2 Gold to 40 Copper. - Now also sold by the Mechanic in Graveyards. - Now also sold by the Painter in Graveyards if the Mechanic is present in the world. - Reduced the amount of Larvae placed during world generation. - Gem blocks are no longer replaced with Crispy Honey during world generation. - The passive mining boost now also applies when using block swap. - Pre-Hardmode Mimics now have a 5% chance to drop Flare Guns and Extractinators. - Katana and Keybrand are no longer swapped in progression. - Depth-based quest fish are now easier to catch. - Ocean Biome Crates are now less common, allowing a more balanced distribution of the other Biome Crates. Crashes & Major Issues - Fixed several multiplayer crashes involving furniture. - Fixed a rare crash when placing torches in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare magical crash involving Unicorns in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash involving painted cacti and the minimap. - Fixed a rare multiplayer crash involving animated trails. - Fixed some crashes involving sounds. - Fixed a rare crash involving snails. Yes, snails. - Fixed a multiplayer crash involving faraway villagers. - Fixed a Pylons multiplayer crash. - Fixed a freeze caused by spawning NPCs when most of the world has been wiped of blocks. - Fixed a lighting crash caused by running the game at a very high resolution. - Fixed crash involving Enchanted Sword Shrines. - Fixed a few crashes related to display modes. - Fixed a server crash caused by loading a world of a newer version than the server. - Fixed a crash involving the Flying Dutchman in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash caused by leaving a multiplayer world and joining a singleplayer world. - Fixed crashes involving emotes. - Fixed a crash caused by resizing the window while waiting for Host & Play to start. - Fixed a crash on iOS when toggling Fullscreen. - Fixed crash involving Dressers and merging liquids. - Fixed the -join launch parameter reverting all player files to their backups when launching the game. Player - Fixed spawning code not clearing spawn properly. - Fixed cases where respawning would consider passthrough blocks as solid. - Fixed some projectiles not applying their debuffs in PVP. - Fixed PvP debuffs scaling with difficulty. - Fixed Journey Mode's Pickup power ignoring Pickup speed boosts. - Fixed the Slimed debuff not showing its duration. - Fixed being unable to pick up a dead player's items if they haven't respawned yet. - Fixed a bug where quick buff could consume non-consumable items if used when you have no buff items in your inventory. - Fixed quick mounting a minecart track always grappling the track even if there are solid blocks in the way. - Fixed some mismatches between Torch God's Favor and the current biome detection. - Fixed minecarts having a smaller hitbox when traveling in liquid. - Fixed Hardcore player ghosts contributing to enemy health scaling in Expert+ difficulty. - Fixed information accessories still showing their info on Hardcore player ghosts. - Fixed block swap's speed not matching the player's best pickaxe. - Fixed certain buffs not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed grappling hooks not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed certain debuffs being removable via right click. - Fixed the Lucky Break achievement not being granted if you are Stoned. - Fixed the Matching Attire achievement not unlocking when quick-equipping vanity. - Fixed Smart Cursor placing Palm Trees too close together. - Smart cursor now properly reacts to changes in item placement range when placing blocks and walls. - Torches are now properly placable on platforms when Smart Cursor is on. - Fixed Smart Cursor not targeting the blocks directly below the player when mining if the cursor is close to the player's feet. - Biome calculations are now based on the position of the player rather than the position of the camera. This means that using Binoculars or Scopes no longer changes the player’s biomes. Items - Fixed the Magic Conch not always teleporting you onto solid ground. - Fixed the Staff/Axe of Regrowth breaking Flowering Vines. - Fixed Battle Potion and Mechanical Worm returning Crimson materials when shimmered on Corrupt worlds. - Fixed Chest Locks being usable on Dressers. - Fixed Spectre Paint Brush and Roller being usable when there is no paint in the inventory. - Fixed the Presserator placing actuators in empty blocks when placing certain objects over existing objects (e.g. Antlion Egg). - Fixed Queen Spider sentry's eggs and baby spiders not being able to fall through platforms. - Fixed certain cases of Paladin's shield overdealing and underdealing damage. - Fixed the Paladin's Shield deflecting instant kill damage from the Dungeon Guardian, Skeletron and Skeletron Prime. - Paladin's Shield buff can no longer be cleared by right-clicking. - Fixed the Zapinator's tooltip still showing a mana cost in its tooltip when using Meteor Armor. - Fixed Water Candles not being holdable underwater, despite being placeable underwater. - Fixed Gas Traps not working in singleplayer when autopause is on. - Fixed the Vampire Knives, Scourge of the Corruptor and Shadowflame Knife firing inaccurately at high melee speeds. - Fixed Binoculars being able to see further than intended on high resolutions. - Fixed Wormhole Potion not teleporting you to the right position if both you and the target are mounted. - Fixed the Robbing the Grave achievement not being triggered by the Shadow Jousting Lance. - Fixed extremely rare cases of items staying in the inventory despite having a stack size of 0. - Fixed Life Drain and Resonance Scepter's knockback in PvP. - Improved the reliability of certain quick projectiles, like the Heat Ray. - Fixed Stellar Tune's having a limited range on gamepad. - Fixed Stellar Tune's "no line of sight" damage penalty not applying to PvP. - Fixed Brown Solution converting certain stone walls to dirt walls. - Fixed Green Solution converting jungle walls to stone walls. - Fixed Drills, Chainsaws and the Chlorophyte Jackhammer being one tick slower than they should be. - Fixed the Spider Staff’s spider minions sometimes getting locked up during movement. - Fixed Temple Keys being consumed from every inventory the player has instead of just once, when attempting to unlock the Temple Door. - Fixed Teleporters sometimes failing their initial use in multiplayer. - Fixed items from Fishing Crates, Treasure Bags and Presents never having prefixes. - Fixed Shield of Cthulhu's first dash after joining a world not hitting anything. - You can no longer blow up the Snake Charmer's Flute's snake. You monster. - Fixed items getting stuck in weird states after being thrown into certain Shimmer pools. - Fixed releasing critters in reverse gravity not releasing them at the cursor. - Fixed jousting lances having an asymmetrical hitbox when attacking. - Fixed Vortex Beater, Phantasm, Phantom Phoenix and Celebration MK2 dealing contact damage. - Improved Portal Gun teleportation stability in multiplayer. - Trash items are no longer immune to lava. - Fixed Water Gun projectiles being destroyed when getting near water. - Fixed the Shiny Red Balloon & tinkers sometimes reducing total jump height, for example when in water. - Fixed Hive Pack's Giant Bees being instantly slain by Shimmer. - Fixed boomerang weapons getting locked out when thrown off the edges of the world. - Clinger Staff is now properly usable on top of Planter Boxes. - Fixed Red's armor and the Fairy Bell rarely allowing you to have two fairies at once. - Fixed flails breaking at high melee speed. - Fixed rapidly switching between projectile firing weapons (e.g. Starfury) allowing you fire more projectiles than intended. - Fixed certain mounts being slowed by certain accessories. - Fixed Purification Powder converting mowed grass into unmowed grass. - Fixed synchronization of the Charged Blaster Cannon in multiplayer. - Fixed being able to sell back items purchased with Defender Emblems for their full buy price in coins. - Fixed synchronization issues involving Fairy Glowsticks. - Fixed an issue with the Dirtiest Dirt's behavior. - Fixed rare cases where Yoyo Counterweights would fail to appear. - Fixed the Archery Potion’s damage bonus not being reflected in the damage tooltips of arrows. Bosses, Invasions & Events - Fixed some inconsistencies between loot dropped directly by bosses in Classic difficulty and loot obtained from Treasure Bags in Expert+. - Fixed invasions not being properly synced in multiplayer. - Fixed boss minimap icons not animating smoothly when far away. - Fixed cases where two Eye of Cthulhus would appear at once. You were definitely just seeing twice. - Fixed the Eater of Worlds not being considered a "danger" for certain mechanics such as the Pylon Network despite being the literal Eater of Worlds! - Fixed an issue where Deerclops could get stuck into an infinite falling loop when teleporting. - Deerclops' Shadow Hands now avoid spawning on all players, rather than just the primary target. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Laser not firing properly. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Bomb explosions appearing in the wrong position in multiplayer. - Fixed Empress of Light's Ethereal Lances sometimes not spawning in the correct position. - Fixed enraged Empress of Light's contact damage being dodgeable on Don’t Dig Up worlds under certain circumstances. - Fixed spooky cases of the Pumpking disappearing in the middle of the fight, never to return. - Fixed Flocko and Krampus not being counted as part of the Frost Moon. - Fixed Dark Mages and Ogres almost always arriving from the left portal in tier 1 and 2 Old One's Army events. They will now randomly pick a portal. - Fixed an asymmetry in Lightning Aura’s minimum placement distance during the Old One's Army event. - Fixed Old One's Army being affected by Shimmer. - Fixed Martian Saucer increasing the player’s respawn time in multiplayer. Enemies - Fixed "[Enemy] has arrived!" messages appearing in the chat in worlds with lots of active enemies. - Fixed a spawn cap exploit involving Antlion Larvae and Bees. - Fixed a rare bug where worm-type trails could attach to other enemies. - Fixed Big Mimics not turning hostile when damaged by lava. - The Bird Banner now properly applies to normal Birds, Blue Jays, and Cardinals. - Fixed destroying a Slimer’s wings increasing its kill count. - Fixed the Golem sometimes spawning with multiple heads in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare bug where a second bound version of an NPC could spawn at the same time the first one is rescued. - Fixed NPC buffs not being synced when a player first joins a server. - Fixed spiders sometimes managing to clip through solid blocks! Aaaah! - Fixed Crimson Pigrons uniquely being incapable of entering water. - Fixed rain enemies spawning in the wrong places on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed Wraiths and Hoppin' Jacks not spawning in the right places on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed certain Crimslime variants not counting towards the Gelatin World Tour achievement. - The Nurse can no longer remove Brain of Confusion's Mindtrick buff. She was slightly confused there. - Fixed multiplayer issues involving Antlion's sand balls. - Fixed web spitting spiders spitting webs at slain players. - Fixed Spiked Slimes maintaining their focus on players that they've slain. - Improved walker enemies' ability to jump on platforms. - Fixed walker enemies jumping endlessly on platforms, when at the same elevation as their target. - Fixed rare cases of NPCs being perpetually wet, making the bees very sad. - Fixed Jungle and Spiked Ice Slimes sometimes spawning inside of blocks. - Fixed worms with picked up coins not respawning properly in Expert+. - Fixed some Snow biome NPCs being unable to spawn on Red Ice. - Fixed Corrupt and Crimson enemies not spawning correctly on Lesion and Flesh blocks. - Fixed For The Worthy and Journey mode scaling issues. Villagers - Fixed cases where the Dryad would forget how to do math when asked about the world’s infection status. - Fixed the Skeleton Merchant having broken behaviour in liquids. Additionally, he can no longer spawn in liquid. - Fixed Skeleton Merchant ignoring a player's Shadow Candle and appearing anyway. - Fixed the spirit of Christmas preventing NPCs from being killed when falling out of the bottom of the world. - Fixed villagers not dropping their party hats if slain during a party. Blocks & Furniture - Fixed Platforms and Planter Boxes not framing properly when next to Echo (coated) blocks. - Fixed Aetherium Brick not blending with Dirt. - Fixed Teleporters not breaking objects above them when they are broken. - Fixed being able to place items in Weapon Racks/Item Frames while you are using them. - Hallowed Mowed Grass no longer spreads paint when it grows. - Fixed closed doors breaking objects in their way when interacted with even if the door is blocked. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly breaking objects when placed by block swap. - Fixed placed Garden Gnomes having incorrect minimap labels. - Campfires and torches are now properly limited to their water resistant variants when block swapping them underwater. - Fixed certain hanging objects like Boulder Statues not breaking when their anchor blocks are block swapped into platforms. - Fixed being unable to place Moss on a single, isolated block. - Fixed being unable to place Ash Grass on a single, isolated Ash block. - Fixed platforms other than wood not being considered solid surfaces in certain cases. - Fixed being able to block swap solid blocks onto platforms that players are standing in. - Fixed acorns not being plantable on Ash Grass. - Fixed Crystals, Holiday Lights and Exposed Gems being placeable on the "wrong" side of sloped blocks. - Fixed cases where breaking one cage would break another adjacent cage. - Fixed Gem Trees breaking when moss spreads beneath them. - Fixed being able to step on a Weighted Pressure Plate twice. - Fixed auto-paint and auto-actuation failing when using block swap to switch similar items, such as one chest for another. - Fixed being unable to place more rope on an already very long rope in multiplayer. - Fixed Water Sensors being triggered by Shimmer. - Fixed being able to toggle half of a hanging lantern in multiplayer. - Fixed Honey Blocks slowing you down too much in reverse gravity. - Fixed certain block interactions happening multiple times at low FPS, such as putting items in Item Frames. - Fixed being able to craft items while using a Mannequins or Hat Rack. - Fixed Hanging Brazier/Pots instantly breaking when hanging them under a platform/block combination. - Fixed Bubbles being actuatable by timers. - Fixed vines not considering mowed grass a valid anchor, making them liable to spontaneous decomposition. - Fixed Land Mines and Geyser Traps spawning projectiles twice in multiplayer. - Fixed unsafe Fossil Walls being considered suitable housing material. World - Fixed biome music and backgrounds not having the same priorities, causing mismatches in certain biome combinations. - Fixed Meteorites not fully syncing in multiplayer when landing. - Fixed Meteorites not clearing slopes, paints and coatings when generated. - Fixed Hardmode ores retaining paint when generating over painted blocks. - Fixed certain Pyramid pots having broken map colours. - Fixed Palm Trees not inheriting the paint and coating of their root block when growing. - Fixed Palm Trees, Bamboo, Seaweed and Sea Oats not being coated when growing on a block with Illuminant Coating. - Fixed certain tree branches dropping acorns when they're above grass blocks. - Fixed Sakura and Yellow Willow trees not converting properly. - Fixed Celebration worlds flagging the initially spawned villagers as unlocked. - Boulders now properly interact with Shimmer. - Fixed rare cases of trees growing through solid blocks. - Fixed darkness damage applying incorrectly while the screen is panning in The Constant worlds. - Fixed luck incorrectly affecting damage from cutting Cactus in The Constant worlds. - Fixed grass and desert wall infection spreading asymmetrically. - Fixed Ash Trees dropping regular wood in certain cases. - Lily pads can now properly grow above Mowed Hallowed Grass. - Fixed lily pads losing their paint when floating up or down. - Fixed Crimson Plants not counting as Crimson blocks. - Fixed grass spread synchronization in multiplayer. - Fixed the underground to cavern background transitions not matching with Depth Meter values. - The Dryad now counts Lesion and Flesh blocks as Corrupt/Crimson blocks on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed Living Tree leaves burrowing into Sky Lakes and drinking all the water. Save some for the fish! - Rain now only stops Fireblossom from blooming if it’s growing in a layer that actually experiences rain. World Generation - Fixed several minor world gen issues. - Fixed boulders sometimes generating without a surrounding trap. - Fixed boulder traps sometimes generating without a boulder. - Fixed honey patches appearing outside of the Jungle (such as in the Underworld). - Fixed several liquid merge issues. - Fixed rare cases of Sky Island chests not containing their paintings. - Fixed boulder traps overlapping and breaking containers in rare situations. - Fixed extremely rare cases where Minecart tracks would manage to get into the Dungeon and Temple. - Fixed campfires sometimes generating too close to the dungeon. - Fixed rare cases of Temple chest loot appearing inside Mushroom chests. - Fixed a minor bug with liquid cleanup during world generation. - Fixed underground cabins attempting to generate outside the world. - Fixed traps in the Jungle Temple sometimes generating without a pressure plate. - Fixed Spider Stalactites and Honey Stalactites/-mites not generating. - Fixed Living Wood chests at the surface containing underground loot. - Fixed Living Wood chests appearing outside of Living Trees. - Fixed exposed gems and crystals generating on boulders and closed doors. - Fixed rare cases where Not The Bees worlds were missing an ocean. - Fixed cases of Underground Desert pressure plates appearing over other objects. - Fixed several chest loot items not appearing with prefixes. - Fixed a rare case where a new world could start at night. Spooky! - Fixed rare failures to place jungle plants during generation. - Fixed cases of the Dead Man's Chest boulders spawning over other valuables such as Life Crystals. - Fixed the wrong kind of pots generating in the Underground Desert. - Fixed the Dungeon's guaranteed Shadow Key always being placed in a Biome Chest. Shadow Keys no longer generate in Biome Chests at all. UI - Fixed favorited ammo sometimes being affected by quick stacking. - Fixed being unable to navigate the inventory when placing chests on gamepad. - Fixed the Create World menu showing the wrong world size preview image when initially opened. - Fixed the resource pack info scrollbar overlapping the textbox. - Fixed the main menu sometimes being upside down when quitting a world with reverse gravity active. - Fixed the back button in some menus backtracking all the way to the title screen instead of the previous menu. - Fixed the game falling back to the default hotbar hotkeys (1 through 0) rather than the assigned hotkeys while an item is being used. - Fixed quick stack to nearby chests taking items from ammo and hotbar slots in certain cases. - Fixed some NPCs in the Bestiary appearing in the wrong size. - Axe tools now get sorted properly when sorting. - Fixed dyes not getting sorted when sorting. - Fixed NPCs appearing incorrectly in the Bestiary on "For The Worthy" worlds. - Fixed some oddities with the hover range of Chest menu buttons. - Fixed death markers being invisible in the overlay map. - Fixed rare cases where UI elements would overlap when the player has the maximum amount of accessory slots. - Fixed the Metal Detector not always highlighting the most valuable treasure. - Fixed the Stopwatch showing wrong values when moving through Shimmer. - Fixed the DPS Meter not taking NPC defense into account in some cases. - Fixed items potentially being picked up into the cursor when opening Chester, the Money Trough or the Void Vault portal at high UI scales. - Fixed Bestiary kill counts resetting to 0 on multiplayer when getting very high. - Fixed the cursor icon flickering when hovering over the minimap buttons. - Fixed the Guide forgetting his initial 'help' text in certain cases. He only needed a bit of help, that’s all. - Fixed the Guide's help text on grappling hooks not checking for all hook types. - Fixed the world’s edge not matching up with the minimap’s edge. - Fixed certain hairstyles potentially not appearing in the Stylist's shop menu. - Fixed scrolling through the Stylist's hair window also scrolling through your hotbar under certain zoom settings. - Fixed repeatedly sorting sometimes causing items to leapfrog over each other. - Fixed the incorrect error message displaying when trying to join a server with an incompatible character. - Fixed shops showing incorrect gamepad hints. - Fixed the cursor icon not always indicating when you are about to trash an item. - Fixed multiplayer chat not drawing above Hardcore ghost's heads. - Fixed Void Vault and Defender's Forge icons overlapping in the savings display. - Fixed exiting the virtual keyboard on gamepad also closing the Journey menu. - Fixed the mouse cursor rendering incorrectly when certain menus are open. - Fixed certain chat commands converting their input to lowercase. - Fixed mouseover text appearing when hovering over certain buttons that have items behind them in the world. - Fixed gamepad navigation in the villager housing menu when there is only one column of villagers. - Fixed teleporting causing erratic minimap patterns. - Fixed map pings persisting between worlds. - Fixed Quick Use deleting items when used while an item is already mid-use. - Fixed the Esc key not working for anything but chat on Mac/Linux. - Fixed the game overlaying the cursor for the rest of the session when the mouse is disconnected and then reconnected on Mac. - Fixed the Ruler's distance display scaling with World Zoom rather than UI Scale. - Fixed being unable to quick-unequip the Master Mode accessory on Steam Deck. - Fixed quick-crafted coins on gamepad immediately converting back to their original denomination. - Fixed the player being dismounted when opening the Bestiary on gamepad. - Fixed the "Take One" action on gamepad not working for single items. - Fixed the Smart Cursor icon rendering in the fullscreen map on gamepad. - Fixed the Smart Cursor visual extending beyond the player's functional range in extreme situations. - Fixed Smart Cursor's direction lock being asymmetrical. - Fixed a visual issue with the achievement unlocked notifications. - Fixed house assignment not working correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed D-Pad cursor snapping not working in reverse gravity. - Fixed moving the map not respecting mouse input at certain resolutions. - Fixed a duplicate gamepad hint that appears when hovering over the minecart equip slot. - Fixed other player's names showing when hovering over them while they are invisible. - Fixed the gamepad hints for accessory slots in Master Mode being incorrect in certain cases. - Fixed gamepad's virtual keyboard breaking on lower framerates. - Fixed kites responding to mouse clicks when trying to click interface buttons. - Bed and Spawn map icons are now properly centered. - Fixed player chat text going offscreen when resizing the game window. - Emotes are now correctly removed when players are slain. Camera Mode - Fixed the sky not appearing correctly in captures during rain. - Fixed the Aether biome's background stars not appearing properly in snapshots of underground areas. - Fixed certain background elements not appearing in their correct place in camera captures. - Fixed blurry backgrounds in high resolution camera captures. - Fixed Monoliths not properly working with camera captures. - Fixed camera captures sometimes not having transparent backgrounds when backgrounds are disabled. - Fixed large world snapshots with lots of furniture crashing in certain circumstances. - Fixed the screenshot area being affected by UI scale. - Fixed water artifacts appearing in snapshots. Visual Issues - Fixed the Tax Collector's Suit's scarf being visible when you are transformed into a Werewolf or Merman. - Fixed Starlight's animation not pausing when the game is paused. - Dungeon Guardian now properly emits effects when attacked. - Fixed several items not matching the player's stealth when held out. - Fixed drinking Biome Sight Potion not producing particles. - Fixed some stalactites/-mites having the wrong break dusts. - Fixed the leaf burst from a growing tree not using the tree's paint. - Fixed the Hellfire Treads' and Terraspark Boots' effects not being affected by dye properly. - Fixed Xeno Staff minions not displaying attack dusts on remote clients. - Fixed Queen Slime's projectiles not having the same default brightness as her minion's projectiles. - Fixed brightness flickering when entering a surface Glowing Mushroom biome. - Fixed cases where the camera would move very fast instead of transitioning to black when teleporting. - Fixed the game not using a black fade transition when switching from tracking view (golf ball, FPV Goggles) to Binoculars. - Fixed certain backgrounds having their treetops slightly cut-off. - Fixed the Flesh Grinder not rendering properly. - Fixed rare visual errors with Martian Dye. - Fixed various plants ignoring certain paints. - Fixed some furnitures not properly reacting to coatings. - Fixed tree shake effects playing twice in multiplayer in certain cases. - Fixed certain mounts making bubble effects appear in the wrong position underwater. - Fixed NPCs rarely sliding instead of teleporting after using teleporters in multiplayer. - Fixed regular and wooden minecarts animating in reverse. - Fixed Brain of Cthulhu sometimes rendering incorrectly in phase two. - Fixed certain items being offset incorrectly when used by mounted players. - Fixed visual glitches from Magic Missile-type weapons on certain graphics cards. - Fixed certain cases where liquid would incorrectly draw, especially near Bubbles. - Fixed some visual issues with sleeping in a bed. - Fixed the Pigron mount's idle animation not being used. - Fixed Jellyfish Jar placement previews and glowmasks being skewed. - Fixed Jellyfish Jars not creating extra bright light when the Jellyfish is glowing. - Fixed placement preview issues with Placed Signs, Tattered Signs, Arrow Signs, Item Frames, Switches and the Announcement Box. - Fixed the alchemy herbs placement preview not being accurate. - Fixed visual glitches with child safe gores. - Fixed the mana gained effect from the Magic Cuffs appearing twice for other players. - Fixed certain wings unintentionally being visible when grappled to a surface. - Fixed the Eyebrella spawning rain while the fullscreen map is active, causing a burst of rain when you close the map. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly attaching to the ground. - Fixed main menu sometimes showing watery ripples. - Fixed some chandeliers not emitting sparks. - Fixed small visual oddities with Chain Knife and Knife Guillotine. - Fixed yucky cases where Stinkbug Blockers would appear incorrectly. - Fixed the Crystal Dart projectiles not properly rotating when bouncing. - Fixed some issues with the Crystal Serpent's visual effects. - Fixed some interactions between glowing blocks and complete darkness. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparition's... appearance? - Fixed certain visual effects that track players incorrectly tracking velocity. - Fixed Orange Stained Glass appearance in the Underworld. - Fixed the Gold Water Strider not emitting sparkles. - Fixed Truffle Worm losing its glow effect when escaping from players. - Fixed certain wings not becoming fully invisible when entering stealth (e.g. Shroomite). - The Inner Tube now correctly gets affected by stealth. - Fixed stray white pixels appearing around Pigrons and the Pigron Mount. - Removed a white pixel in the Demolitionist and Tavernkeep's spritesheets that appears when they fall. - The main menu will no longer skip a moon phase when cycling through the days. - Players will no longer show their failed attempts at using mana consuming items, when they don't have enough mana, in multiplayer. - Fixed clouds moving excessively at low framerates. - Fixed distant clouds stuttering when moving vertically. - Fixed lava emitting water particles when a player gets out. - Fixed framing issues with Crystal Shards interacting with half-bricks. - Fixed Ash Plants and Lilypads not reacting to paint. - Fixed paint not working properly on Sunflowers. - Fixed Chlorophyte Partisan's projectile being visually cut off. - Fixed Shiverthorn not glowing in the dark. - Fixed blood disappearing quicker than intended. - Fixed players respawning with honey particles after being slain in honey. - Fixed scaling artifacts on Eater of Worlds' segments. - Fixed visual issues with Rocket Boots when mounting/swapping loadouts mid-air. - Fixed the Glass Slipper's sparkle effect being visible when the accessory isn’t. - Fixed certain visual effects not functioning correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed several pets changing directions or going invisible when entering flight from standstill. - Improved Caveling Gardener's direction when standing still. - Fixed visual issues involving player's overhead chat, nameplates, reverse gravity and high latencies. - Fixed the background suddenly disappearing at high altitude in certain circumstances. - Fixed the glowmasks of certain dyes. - Improved Obsidian Skull Rose and Molten Skull Rose compatibility with various armor pieces. - Fixed certain furniture items not emitting their effects properly in Retro Lighting. - Fixed certain coats appearing incorrectly when the player is sitting. - Fixed visual issues when sitting while wearing some specific leg items. - Fixed Shimmer animations breaking when under the effect of a Hunter Potion. - Fixed a visual issue with the Graduation Gown. - Fixed a visual issue with the Fallen Tuxedo Pants. - Fixed a visual issue with the Desert Spirit. - Fixed inconsistencies in the item directions of minecarts, chairs, and beds. - Fixed Fishing Rods jittering when moving horizontally. - Fixed Spears jittering when moving over slopes. - Fixed framing issues caused by block swapping Glass. - Fixed vines disappearing when their anchor block is hammered. - Fixed an issue with sloped glowing blocks. - Fixed a variety of enemies animating slower when walking to the left. - Fixed Snowfall Block drawing liquids behind it. - Fixed Headless Horseman's NPC's Pumpkin projectiles having upside down shadows. Spooky! - Fixed Truffle's glow not fading when shimmering. - Fixed Hades Dye not working properly on certain pets and mounts. - Fixed a lot of projectiles drawing twice. - Fixed the Mechanic being offset by a single pixel when sitting, which someone somehow noticed and made a Reddit post about! Thanks! - Fixed Echo coated blocks drawing black artifacts in certain cases. - Fixed Chlorophyte Dye's glowmask being in the wrong place at the right time. - Fixed Oozed debuff still producing visual effects on slain players. - Fixed waterfalls flowing upwards in certain cases. - Fixed certain visual effects appearing incorrectly in multiplayer at high latencies. - Fixed Moon Lord floating to the left in multiplayer in its final moments. - Fixed cut-off rendering on Retro Lighting at high resolutions. - Fixed a framing issue with exposed gems. - Fixed certain wings not blinking when the wearer is damaged. - Fixed the Vortex Helmet using an incorrect glowmask. - Fixed an issue with the Flesh Chandelier's animation. - Fixed Team Dye not applying properly to Minions, Pets, Light Pets and Hooks. Audio - Terraria no longer fails to launch when it fails to detect an available audio device. - Fixed item use sounds from remote clients not playing properly in Multiplayer in specific cases. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparitions, Parrots, Pirate's Curse, Scutlices and Martian Saucers not playing their invasion music if they're the only enemy left. - Fixed waterfall sounds being anchored to the player rather than the camera. - Fixed certain sounds playing twice when switching between menus. - Fixed the item pickup sound not always being centered. - Fixed Betsy's scream being audible throughout the whole world. - Fixed some sounds playing multiple times on the gamepad’s virtual keyboard at low framerates. Localization - Fixed several IME issues. - Fixed references to mouse buttons in loading tips not being localized. - Improved line wrapping of text for some languages. - Fixed Green Cap, Ivy, and Jim's Cap not dropping when the game is set to certain languages. - Fixed Old One's Army, Pumpkin Moon, and Frost Moon having an extra colon in the numbered wave text. - Fixed the Drax's outdated name in several languages. - Fixed some errors in the Princess and Pirate's dialogue. - Fixed the Steampunker's party dialogue. - Fixed a typo in Goblin Tinkerer's happiness dialogue. - Fixed Celebration MK2's projectiles having no localization. - Fixed some of the Tax Collector's dialogue being inaccessible. - Fixed several punctuation issues. - Fixed some inconsistencies with the credits localization. Miscellaneous - Terraria no longer fails to launch if a resource pack fails to load properly. - Fixed several certain exploits. - Fixed an incompatibility with Terraria 1.0.6.1 saves. - Fixed some input issues when using AZERTY keyboard layouts. - Fixed a rare "Lost connection" issue for slower clients. - Fixed the "language" option from the dedicated server configuration not working. - Fixed the “autocreate” option from the dedicated server configuration not working if used out of order. - Fixed the dedicated server’s “-world” argument crashing when the world doesn't exist, even if “-autocreate” is also used. - Improved menu related stability when joining friends via Steam. - Fixed an issue where uploading a player to the Steam Cloud when a player with the same name already exists there could delete that player’s minimap data. - Fixed updating a published Workshop item resetting its publicity to Public in certain cases. - Fixed some incorrect default values when opening Terraria for the first time. This caused hardware RGB to not function. - Fixed being unable to join your own Host & Play server after having previously connected to a server using a different port than 7777. Vikki Blake is a reporter for IGN, as well as a critic, columnist, and consultant with 15+ years experience working with some of the world's biggest gaming sites and publications. She's also a Guardian, Spartan, Silent Hillian, Legend, and perpetually High Chaos. Find her at BlueSky.


--- [1.4.5.0 - Official Terraria Wiki] ---
1.4.5.0 The 1.4.5.0 update, named Bigger and Boulder, is a major update that was released on January 27, 2026. Content Changes and Additions Seeds - Added the Skyblock seed, where you start out on nothing but a small floating island. It's up to you to build everything else! - Special seeds can now be combined! Some combinations may have some interesting interactions. - Added a new seed selection window to the world creation menu, which allows you to easily enable special seeds. - Identical worlds with special seed enabled can now be created by using seed. - Added secret seeds. Items - Added 650+ new items. - Added 9 new whips: Cobwhip, Slime Whip, Soulscourge, Vasculash, Starcrash, Vulgar Display of Flower, Electric Eel, Constellation, and Possession. - Added over 60 new hairstyles! - Added 22 new furniture sets. - Added 20 new paintings. - Added Dead Cells crossover content, including: five new weapons, a buff station, a vanity set, an accessory, a loyal pet and a new way to display your items in the world. - Added Palworld crossover content, including 5 pals and a vanity set. - Added four new transformation mounts. - Added two new Pylons. - Added Stress Ball. - Added Magic String. - Added Strung Counterweight. - Added Roller Skates. - Added Prospector armor set. - Added Captain armor set. - Added Jungle Juice. - Added Torch God's Flavor. - Added Lucky Clover. - Added Raven Feather. - Added Pretty Mirror. - Added Blackened Fish. - Added Rock Candy. - Added Shimmer Gun. - Added Wall Racer Car. - Added Acorn Slingshot. - Added Slime Spear. - Added Slime Whip. - Added Power Bomb. - Added Freeze Bomb. - Added Mud Ball. - Added Rainbow Glowsticks. - Added Toybreaker Brick. - Added Sharp Spike Blocks. - Added Dull Team Blocks. - Added Cloud Platforms. - Added Pink Phaseblade and Phasesaber. - Added Chlorophyte Visor. - Added the Mitey-Titey, a new tool for placing decorative stalagmites and stalactites. - Added the Portable Kiln, a new tool for placing decorative pots. - Added some memorabilia from the great Tree vs Axe War of 2023. - Added decorative Demon/Crimson Altars. - Added Decorative Cobwebs. - Added Shimmerfall Blocks and Walls. - Added Magic Shimmer Dropper. - Added Pink and White Banners. - Added Heroicis' set. - Added CRT Monolith. - Added Retro Monolith. - Added Bikini, Swimsuit, and Swimtrunks. - Added Lilac Dusk set. - Added Hallowed Crown. - Added Welding Mask. - Added Chicken Bones' and Kazzymodus' developer armor sets. - Gave Skeletron a fancy new hat. - Added vanity set for Terraria Enthusiasts. - Added Luna's Runic Pixie set. - Added spectating of other players, either via the new Scrying Orb, or by haunting them after being slain! - Kites and critters can now be placed in the world as persistent background objects. You can place them from the hotbar by right-clicking. - Mannequins can now hold items and mounts, and pose with those items when hammered. - Rubblemaker can now place Abigail's Flower, Life Fruits, Jungle Rose, Nature's Gift, Jungle Spores, Glow Tulip, Fallen Logs (that do not attract Fairies), Oasis Plants, Water Bolt, and the Terragrim. - Sandcastle Bucket, Garden Gnomes, and Lawn Flamingoes now use the up/down keys to cycle through placement styles (like the Rubblemaker). - Items that can cycle through placement styles will now only do so if they're the currently selected item. - Building items that consume materials (such as the Rubblemaker and the Paintbrush) now show how much material they have available on their hotbar item icon. - Paladin's Shield now displays its range, and feedback when it is used. Getting killed by the Paladin's Shield now displays a unique death message. - The Zombie Arm can now be held out, and throws complementary bits and pieces when swung. - The Paintball Gun now paints Slimes on hit. - Normal and biome torches can now be converted when placed. - Conveyor Belts can now carry items upwards. - When spawning NPCs on Conveyor Belts, the block directly below the belt is now used to determine which NPC to spawn. - Falling blocks (Sand, Silt, Slush, etc.) will no longer settle on Conveyor Belts but remain in their item form. - Bricks made from Hardmode ore are now immune to explosives. - Brown Solution now changes Old Stone Wall and Craggy Stone Walls into their unsafe variants. - Green Solution now turns safe Jungle Walls into their unsafe variants. - Demon Conch will now teleport players to the outer edges of the Underworld if there is no valid destination in the middle. It also no longer avoids teleporting you onto platforms. - Pets and minions can now walk through closed Doors and Tall Gates. - Placed items that can be used to craft potions (e.g. Bottle, Pink Vase) can no longer be removed by interacting in order to support the new crafting menu filters (they can still be mined as normal). - The Whoopie Cushion can now be equipped. - Empty Buckets left out in the rain will now fill up. - The Beach Ball now bounces off of enemies and villagers. - Music Boxes now count as vanity. - Crystal Block now merges with Dirt. - Yoyo Counterweights will now override the visuals of the Yoyo Bag if placed in a vanity slot. - Grates with liquid in them can no longer be block swapped. - Grates with objects on them can now be properly destroyed by merging liquids. - Gelatin Crystal now glows in the dark. - Reef Chest now has a more appropriate map color. - All Living Fire Blocks can now be sloped. - Radio Thing is now placeable. - Water Gun, Slime Gun, and Portal Gun can now be placed on Weapon Racks. - You can now attach furniture to Wooden Spikes if you feel so inclined. - Items in the world now stop reacting to fluids when being picked up. - Added many Shimmer "exchanging" transmutations (e.g. Putrid Scent and Flesh Knuckles). NPCs - Added Moss Zombie. - Added Statue (Mimic). - Added Pufferfish. - Added Orca. - Added Librarian Skeleton and Water Bolt Mimic. - Slimes can now contain more items. - Fish now change direction randomly when they flop on the floor. - The Martian Saucer is no longer listed as a boss in the Bestiary. - The Bestiary now properly reflects the incomprehensible nature of the Torch God. - Villagers now wait a minute to look for a new house after being evicted. World - Lightning strikes can now occur during storms. - Added new Dungeon entrance variants. - Cracked Dungeon Bricks now hint at their fragility. - You can now start a Slime Rain by shimmering a Slime Crown. - Trees are now converted to and from Palm Trees when using Yellow, Brown, and White Solution, rather than being destroyed. - Corrupt and Crimson grass can now infect Mowed grass, turning it into normal Corrupt/Crimson grass. - Blooming Blinkroot is now brighter. - You can no longer attach items to Boulders. Rubble and Pressure Plates will no longer generate on top of Boulders. - Jungle Plants and Vines can now grow on Lihzahrd Brick. - Cactus, stalagmites, stalactites, seashells, Coral, Antlion Egg, alchemy herbs, and wild Jungle plants now take on the paint and coating of the block they grow on. - Safe Underground Desert walls now stop you from being considered to be in the Underground Desert. - The Constant's filter is now hidden when mixed with other world seeds. - Falling Stars are now considered as traps - they're still friendly, though! - Liquid inside Bubbles is no longer cleared when leaving and rejoining a world. - The Aether biome visuals are now suppressed when in the Dungeon. - Boosted nature's growth on the surface during rainy times. - Worlds now support up to 32,000 signs, up from 1,000. - Meteors now avoid Demon/Crimson Altars. - You can no longer stand on the bottom of the world. We suggest you don't try to, either. - World Globes can now assign the same Forest biome to different parts of the world. - Improved how liquids merge during world gen, reducing the likelihood of out-of-place liquid patches (e.g. Honey in Granite Caves). - When two different liquids collide during world gen they now leave less of a mess. - Living Mahogany Tree chests now always contain Jungle loot. - Small and medium sand piles now generate in Underground Deserts. - Newly generated Boulder traps now use Actuators instead of Active Stone Blocks. - The max surface height of newly generated small worlds has been lowered to prevent sky enemies from spawning too close to the surface. - Micro-biomes (e.g. Detonator traps) will no longer generate on top of Boulder traps. - Living Mahogany Wands are now guaranteed in every world. - More Boulder. Wiring and Mechanisms - When Chests receive a wire signal they now pick up all nearby dropped items. Great for automated farms! - Extractinators now process items from nearby chests (up to two blocks away) when they receive a wire signal. - Timers can now be freely placed without requiring an anchor block. - Inactive Stone Blocks now share the same restrictions on actuating beneath protected blocks (e.g. Lihzahrd Altar, Mannequins) as Actuators. - Inlet and Outlet Pump items are now immune to lava. Tooltips and Clarifications - Items that interact with wire now have a "Wireable" tooltip. Improved the tooltips of several of these items. - Items that can be extractinated now have a tooltip to indicate this. - Reworded the "No stats will be gained" tooltip on items in vanity slots. Vanity items no longer show this tooltip while in a vanity slot. - Clarified the Inlet and Outlet Pump's tooltips to make clear it can transport any liquid, not just water. - Bat Bat's tooltip now clarifies it always heals on hit rather than only sometimes. - Improved the consistency of some set bonus effect tooltips. - Clarified the Beetle Shell and Solar Flare armor tooltips (functionality unchanged). - Whips now show their use time in their tooltip. - Bubbles now have a tooltip to explain their function. - Actuators now have the "Can be placed" tooltip. - Removed "Can be placed" tooltip from wand-type items. - Blade Staff now properly mentions that it ignores some enemy defense (functionality unchanged). - Added usage tooltips to grappling hooks. - Improved platform tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved bed tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved Sawmill tooltip to clarify its purpose. - Clarified harmful blocks tooltips to mention their danger. - Clarified tooltips of minion slots granted by several sources. - Improved Solar Tablet tooltip. - Bug Net's tooltip now mentions it can catch bait. - Improved some portable storage items' tooltips. - Portable storage tooltips (e.g. Piggy Bank) now mention their stored coins can be used in shops. - Improved Gills Potion tooltip. - Improved Lavaproof Bug Net tooltip. - Improved immunity accessories (e.g. Bezoar) tooltips. - Improved Discount Card tooltip. - Improved Sandstorm in a Balloon tooltip. - Improved Flame Waker Boots tooltip. - Improved Sandcastle Bucket tooltip. - Cloud blocks and platforms now mention they prevent fall damage in their tooltip. - Improved Yellow Horseshoe Balloon tooltip. - Clarified Brain of Confusion tooltip. - Improved Enchanted Sundial and Moondial tooltip. - Improved Planter Box tooltip. - The "not enough NPCs nearby" Pylon message now clarifies NPCs need to live near them, not just be near them. - Added flavor text to the Fertilizers. - Added flavor text to the Fruit Salad. - Fixed punctuation issues with several tooltips. Journey Mode - Trashing an item now automatically attempts to research it. - Researching items now also contributes to the research progress of your online team members. - Partially researched items now show up in the duplication menu (but cannot be duplicated). - Duplicating an item now gives only one of that item if you don't need multiple (such as single-use upgrade items). - Deerclops, Eye of Cthulhu, and mechanical bosses no longer randomly spawn when the spawn rate slider is set to 0×. - The Difficulty Slider now more closely matches the scaling of Expert and Master worlds. Quality of Life - Items can now be crafted from nearby chests! This can be toggled on/off as desired. - Right-clicking a crafting station now opens the crafting menu, showing only the items that can be crafted at that station. - When the Goblin Tinkerer reforges an item and gets the best available modifier, a special effect plays and the reforge button is briefly blocked to prevent unintentional further reforges. - Individual armor set pieces now show the set bonus in their tooltip. - Pylons now take priority over Wormhole Potions when clicking on either to teleport on the map. - Almost every item in the game can now stack to 9999, including weapons and equipment (with modifiers). - Added a "Similar Stack to Nearby Chests" mode, which aside from default quick stack behaviour also tries to put items in chests with similar items (for example, putting Iron Ore with Copper Ore). You can toggle between quick stacking modes by right-clicking the Quick Stack button. - The housing query now gives visual feedback on the suitability of any queried space. - Houses no longer require at least one solid, non-platform block to be valid. - The housing query now indicates when a house is invalid because it does not have a spot to stand on. - When holding an equipable item in the cursor, usable equipment slots are now highlighted, and others are dimmed. - Greatly improved how the game handles too many items being on the ground: when the item cap is hit, items now try to stack with nearby items to make room. - Improved the sorting behaviour of many items. - Treasure Bags now appear on the minimap. - Mining Boulders that you are standing on no longer damages you if the Boulder has no space to roll. - When you try to switch to another hotbar slot while already using an item, you will now switch once the item finishes its current use rather than when you stop using the item. - Improved the indicator for the selected hotbar item when overriding the default selected item (e.g. when using smart select). - When trying to Quick Stack, there is now a visual indicator on chests that cannot be stacked to because they are in use by another player. - When assigning a spawn point at a bed fails, you'll now be provided the reason. - Minion buffs now show how many of that minion you have summoned. - When you respawn, any minions you had active when you were slain are now automatically resummoned. - If you are slain while holding an item in your cursor, the item will now be put back into your inventory, if possible. - Torches now have Placement Previews. - Block Swapping a platform onto a sloped block will now clear the slope. - You will now automatically join your last team when (re)joining a world. - Improved Smart Cursor behaviour when placing platforms, and added an arrow visual to clarify the placement direction. - Hovering over a buff icon while using an item will no longer interrupt usage of said item. - Interacting with villagers and items while holding an item on the cursor no longer throws said item. - Equipment in vanity slots now shows its full tooltip text. - Quick swapping now supports Vanity Accessories. - You can now dismount a minecart by interacting with the track (dismount key still works as well). - Ropes can now pass through up to five passable blocks (such as platforms and Minecart Tracks). - Ropes can now pass through Planter Boxes. You can now also block swap Rope with Planter Boxes if there's already a Planter Box adjacent to it, like you can with Platforms. - Extending a rope is no longer blocked by objects such as cobwebs and plants. - Eternia Crystals can now be used from the Void Bag. - If you are grappled to the ground, you will no longer jump by default when pressing jump. You will still jump if you're holding the Up input. - When you get hurt, you'll now hear your character's hurt sound, regardless of where the camera is. - Slain Hardcore player's ghosts now have their names displayed in multiplayer. - Right clicking any search bar now clears it, and clicking outside the search bar clears focus away from it. - Emote commands are no longer case sensitive. - Improved "Frame Skip: Subtle" setting to reduce stuttering. - Servers now save the world when the last player leaves. - The map now more consistently updates when changes happen in remote sections of the world (e.g. plant growth). - Camera Mode screenshots now only capture blocks that are fully on screen, which fixes some visual issues. - Certain visual effects that previously did not appear in Camera Mode snapshots now do appear if the entire snapshotted area is also on screen. - Camera Mode captures can now capture the Space sky and stars if the center of the capture is in Space. - World maps from Mobile Terraria are now supported on PC Terraria. - You can now join your own servers via Join via Steam. - Added failsafes to prevent losing save files when failing to save to a full Steam cloud storage. - Making changes to folder-based Resource Packs while the game is running now immediately updates the content in-game. - Added recycle bin support for OSX and Linux. UI Changes - Greatly overhauled the crafting window, added a search bar and filter tabs. - Added a special Banner Menu. Whenever you gain a banner it is no longer placed directly into your inventory but stored in this menu, where you can retrieve it at will. This does not affect any previously earned banners. - The character creation menu now lets you choose the type and pitch of your hurt sound. This is also available through Dressers. - Added outfit preview buttons to character creation. - The character creation menu now shows a confirmation prompt when trying to exit without saving. - The character creation menu's tab icons now have hover tooltips. - Various tips are now shown during character creation. - The world creation progress bar's accuracy and messages have been improved. - When generating a world with a random evil, the progress bar is now neutral to avoid spoiling which evil is being generated. - Your players and worlds are now sorted by most recently used (favorites still come first), and any freshly generated world will appear at the top for ease of access. - Added marker icons for previously visited and newly generated worlds in the menu. - Quick trash settings can now be changed while in a world. - Improved Pylon overview in the map. - Shops now have a visual indicator showing how NPC happiness is affecting prices. - The Savings display now caps the amount of Platinum Coins to 999, to prevent overflows. - Coins in inventory now animate when gained and when spent. - The defense counter now has a tooltip showing how much damage it effectively blocks. Its appearance now changes based on world difficulty. - Homeless NPCs now have a Housing dialogue option instead of Happiness, containing instructions on how to build a suitable house. - Reordered the NPCs in the Housing menu so they now appear in their approximate unlock order. - Improved offscreen team member indicators on wide screens. - Overhead chat and multiplayer nameplates now also appear above the player in reverse gravity. - Added tooltips for the Team and PvP icons. - Faraway villagers will now move smoother on the minimap. - Players are now hidden from the world map while slain. - Map icons now match the map's transparency. - When renaming a character with the virtual keyboard, the original name is now prefilled. - The Packet Stacks menu (F8) now has an instruction on how to close it. - Added a new FPS diagnostics view, which can be toggled with F7. - The FPS display (F10) now also shows your UPS (Updates Per Second). - Added an error message for when the Host & Play server fails to start. - Added sounds when passing over most interface buttons. - Added a boss damage tracker that tracks how much damage each player deals during a boss fight. Type /bossdamage in the chat to view the result of the last fight(s). Gamepad Improvements - Added icons for Playstation and Nintendo Switch controllers. They can be toggled in the Keybind menu. - Using any Ruler option on gamepad now allows the cursor to reach the entire screen. - If you are locked on to an enemy using a gamepad, the Rod of Discord/Harmony will now teleport you to your cursor rather than to said enemy. - Improved the housing menu's gamepad support. - Improved gamepad hints for the Journey menu and the Bestiary. - Improved the in-game settings menu accessibility for gamepad users. - Prioritized Drop and Transfer hints on gamepad when holding an item on the cursor. - Items crafted via Quick Craft now temporarily highlight their item slot. Art and Visuals - Added Villager Portraits! - Added sunrise and sunset visuals! - Added nighttime aurora effects to the Snow biome! - Added new backgrounds to various biomes. - Fish now visually appear in the water while you are fishing. - Added new ambient insects and falling rubble to the world. - The Barrel and Trash Can now have opening and closing animations. - The moon now properly obstructs stars behind it from view. - Polished Moon Lord. - Polished many banner sprites. - Polished the existing pot sprites, and added a few new variants. - Polished Lihzahrd Temple content. - Polished the Demon Altar, Crimson Altar, Shadow Orb, and Crimson Heart (both the background item and the light pet) art. - Polished Trophies and Weapon Racks. - Polished Bars, Bar Stools, and Banquet Tables. - Polished Hanging Skeletons and Catacombs. - Polished Hornets. - Polished Ancient Manipulator. - Polished Fire Imp, Imp Staff, and Imp minion. - Polished Baby Slime minion. - Polished Alchemy Table, Imbuing Station, and Bewitching Table. - Polished the various Cloud blocks and walls. - Polished Spider stalactites. - Polished sand piles. - Polished Seahorse Cage. - Polished Fallen Log. - Polished Drill Containment Unit buff icon. - Polished Jim's developer set. - Updated some of the credits scenes art. - Updated Chlorophyte Dye's glow mask. - Updated the Blood and Gore dust filter to be more accurate. - Painted Mushroom furniture lighting now matches the paint's color. - Shroomite Plating Wall lighting now matches the paint's color. - Improved Influx Waver projectile's visual animation. - Improved the Step Stool animation. - Equipping the Ghost Shirt will now show the player bare legged. - Spectre Pants and Cenx's Dress Pants no longer draw shoes underneath, like other robe-bottom pants. - Added mining dust to Large Bamboo Blocks. Audio - Added new boss music for King Slime, Eater of Worlds, Queen Bee, Skeletron, the Twins, the Destroyer, Skeletron Prime, and the Lunatic Cultist. - Adjusted the Eater of Worlds' digging sound. - Updated thunder sound effects. - Added a sound effect for when the player is Starving on The Constant worlds. - Improved sound for item trashing. - Sonar Potions now play a sound cue when you hook a fish. - Added audio feedback to several buttons in the inventory. - Added new sounds for drills and chainsaws. - Added a new sound for Lilith's Necklace. - Added a splash sound when catching a fish. - Reduced the loudness of the Flameburst Tower. - Added a fuse sound to bombs. - Added a reel sound to kites. - Added a new sound for the Flintlock Pistol and Musket. - Added a new sound for the Leaf Blower. - Added a new sound for the Unicorn on a Stick. - All sounds now pan/attenuate consistently regardless of game resolution. - Added a configuration option ("TitleMusic") that allows you to choose which music to play on the main menu: "Current" (Journey's End), "Old" (original), "Console", or "Random". Localization - Added Japanese, Korean, and Traditional Chinese localization. - Implemented a great deal of community contributed suggestions and improvements to our German, Spanish, French, Polish, Brazilian Portuguese, and Simplified Chinese localizations! - Improved localizations to support variants for composite content, like modifiers. - You can now use English chat commands regardless of what language Terraria is set to. - Renamed Heavy Work Bench to Heavy Assembler, as it does not function as a Work Bench. - Renamed Crimson Bunny Kite to Vicious Bunny Kite to match the NPC. - Renamed Martian Brainscrambler Banner to Martian Brain Scrambler Banner to match the NPC. - Renamed Meteor Toilet to Meteorite Toilet for consistency with Meteorite furniture. Performance/Modding - Improved performance around many parts of Terraria. Most notably around trying to achieve frame rendering stability, and reducing small freezes. - Folder based Resource Packs are now hot-reloadable. Changing most content in the folder will make Terraria attempt to reload it instantly! This should dramatically help iterating on localizations/art changes quickly! - Introduced several new systems to replace previously hard-coded logic. (e.g. Wings, Armor sets, Fishing, Horizons, NPC Interaction commands, and more have been made easier to check and modify/replace). - Included a new interactive world generation debugger (available through modding), and improved world generation's determinism and consistency. - Included a suite of internal dev commands for modded use (available through modding). These are primarily aimed at debugging content in different situations, such as multiplayer. - Native support of Apple Silicon was implemented, which makes the game work better on newer Mac devices. Balance Global Mechanics - Fixed an issue that caused certain weapon projectiles that perform multiple updates per frames to have a lower hit cooldown than intended. In practice, the DPS of almost all of these weapons is unaffected by this change, with the exception of the Deadly Sphere Staff: its damage has been increased to compensate (overall DPS remains the same). Melee Weapons - Now launches a bone projectile when striking an enemy. - Attack speed increased by 12.5%. - Can now only have spear-type modifiers. - Attack speed increased by ~17%. Phaseblades, Phasesabers, and Keybrand - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. The weapon will embed itself in the ground and will continuously damage any enemy that touches it. Can be recalled by pressing the attack button again. - Now has a 50% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Range increased by 66.67%. - Bolt damage increased from 150% of weapon damage to 160%. - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Attack speed increased by ~13%. - Now has 7% critical strike chance. - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Can now be autoswung. - Now inflicts Bleeding, dealing 12 damage per second. - Attack speed reduced by ~8%. - Is now a melee weapon. - Now deals damage in an area. - Damage increased from 20 to 32. - Velocity increased by ~70%. - Knockback reduced by ~43%. - Now has a 5% chance to inflict the Confused debuff on enemies. - Now inflicts the Tipsy debuffs on players and villagers. - Now has a ~70% chance to not consume Ale on use. - Sell price increased from 1 SC to 25 SC. Falcon Blade, Exotic Scimitar, and Cutlass - Striking an enemy now briefly increases the weapon's damage by 12% to a maximum of 50%. This extra damage decays at a rate of 30% per second. - Confused debuff chance increased from 90% to 100%. - Stars that spawn when the cursor is on or directly above/below the player now have their direction randomised rather than always falling to the direction the player is facing. - Synergy increased by 100%. - The explosion on hit now uses local invincibility rather than global invincibility. In practical terms, this means a struck enemy can now be damaged by both the explosion and attacks from minions and sentries at the same time. - Now inflicts Bleeding, dealing 12 damage per second. - Damage reduced from 41 to 39. - Range increased by 20%. - Velocity decreased by ~12%. - Lifetime increased from 8 seconds to 16 seconds. - Velocity increased by ~13%. - Lifetime increased from 10 seconds to 30 seconds. - Damage increased from 16 to 40. - Can now strike villagers, dealing 1 damage. - Hitting an enemy or villager will cause them to drop a small amount of Copper Coins. - Sell price increased from 50 SC to 2 GC. - Now creates an explosion upon hitting solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Now pierces enemies. - Now spews 1 to 3 fire projectiles when thrust. - The beam projectile can now penetrate once, and bounce up to 3 times. - Damage increased from 38 to 43. - The orb projectile is now reflected by Shimmer. - Tapping the attack button now throws the Paladin Hammer out much farther (it can be recalled in flight by pressing the attack button again). - Now creates an explosion that damages nearby enemies upon hitting a solid block. - Now applies the Broken Armor debuff, reducing defense by 20. - Damage increased from 90 to 100. - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. - Now creates an explosion upon hitting enemies or solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Fixed the alternate fire projectiles being considered ranged projectiles. They now use the player's melee critical strike chance rather than the ranged critical strike chance, and can inflict debuffs from Flasks and the Magma Stone. - Now has an alternate weapon mode in which it behaves like a flail. You can freely switch between modes by right-clicking the item. The original version has been renamed to Flairoon. - Bubbles from both modes now bounce once. - Bubbles from both modes can now apply the on-hit effects from Flasks, the Frost armor set, and the Magma Stone. Ranged Weapons - Fixed an issue that would cause weapons that use non-standard ammo (e.g. gel) to deal 1 less damage than intended. This affects the following weapons: Star Cannon, Super Star Shooter, Sandgun, Flamethrower, and Elf Melter. - Shroomite Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. - Several weapons that would be too strongly affected by this change have been adjusted to compensate: - Piranha Gun: damage increased from 38 to 40. - Elf Melter: damage increased from 53 to 57. - Sniper Rifle: damage increased from 185 to 200. - Aerial Bane: damage decreased from 39 to 38. - Lifetime increased by ~33%. - Can now be auto-reused. - The harpoon can now be retracted by letting go of the attack button. - Can now penetrate up two enemies before retracting (upon hitting the third). - Now inflicts Bleeding, dealing 12 damage per second. - Velocity increased by ~36%. - Critical strike chance increased from 7% to 8%. - Now has a 6% critical strike chance. - Velocity increased by 20%. - Firing the Revolver just as it comes off cooldown now gradually increases its attack speed (up to 100%) and critical strike chance (up to 20%). Does not work with autofire. - Base critical strike chance removed (was 5%). - Knockback increased by 12.5%. - Buy price increased from 10 GC to 15 GC. - Fixed Hellwing Bow being much more inaccurate than intended when not using Wooden Arrows. - Main projectile now pierces up to one enemy. Cursed Dart Flame no longer pierces. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Damage reduced from 10 to 7. - Now display a visual effect when splitting. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Max bounces/penetrations reduced from 6 to 4. - Damage is now reduced by 15% on every terrain bounce. - Dart now instantly rotates when bouncing. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Can now be used while submerged in lava. - Damage increased from 29 to 36. - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. - Will now re-fire Piranhas that have returned to the player as long as the attack button is held. - Now inflict their debuff in PvP. - Will now ensure their arrows do not spawn inside blocks and be immediately destroyed when firing parallel to the ground. - Damage increased from 44 to 60. - Candy Corns now use local invincibility frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by multiple Candy Corns (and other sources of damage) at the same time. - Lifetime reduced from 10 seconds to 5 seconds. - Damage increased from 65 to 85. - Damage increased from 31 to 38. - Chance to save ammo increased from 50% to ~67%. Magic Weapons - Mana cost reduced from 7 to 6. - Damage increased from 17 to 20. - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage, and penetrate more enemies with distance. - Now react appropriately to lava. - Can now be used while submerged in lava. - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage, and penetrate more enemies with distance. - Now has no mana cost when the Meteor armor is equipped. - Now pierces up to 2 enemies, up from 1. - Damage reduced from 35 to 30. - Velocity increased by 25%. - Damage increased from 32 to 35. - Velocity of initial projectile increased by ~31%. - Now bounces on platforms. - Increased maximum note speed by ~50%, and reduced minimum note speed by ~60%. Summon Weapons All Summon Weapons - Added new Summon modifiers! - Mana costs have been removed. - Any existing summoning weapon with a mana cost reducing modifier (e.g. Mythical) will receive a random new modifier upon loading the world. - Recipe cost increased from 6 Flinx Fur to 10 Flinx Fur. Spider Staff and Queen Spider Staff - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Now has knockback when attacking. - Removed 25% tag damage penalty. - Damage increased from 40 to 55 (DPS unchanged, see Global Mechanics section for explanation). All Whips - Different whip tags can no longer stack with one another. Hitting an enemy with a whip now clears the effect of any other whip that is active. - Whips now use varying arcs when swung. - Damage increased from 27 to 29. - Damage reduced from 165 to 160. - Tag critical strike chance reduced from 12% to 10%. - Damage increased from 100 to 110. - Tag effect damage increased from 10 to 15. - Damage reduced from 180 to 170. - Multihit penalty increased from 10% to 20%. Equipment - Now grants 4 defense. - Now reduces trap damage by 50%, and caps it at 300. - Now reduces trap debuff duration by 50%. - Armor pieces now have a shimmer loop. - Now also removes the mana cost of the Laser Rifle. - Now grants immunity to Burning blocks. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. - Now applies its damage bonus to arrows as well as bows. Yoyo Counterweights - Damage increased from 80% of yoyo damage to 100%. - Velocity increased by 100%. Yoyo Strings - Now increases max yoyo lifetime by 50%. - Spores now use static invincibility frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by spores and other sources of damage at the same time (but not multiple spores). - Now has a visual effect that allows both the wearer and other players to see if they are near or in range. - No longer triggers when allies take damage from non-enemy hazards. - No longer triggers on instant kill effects (e.g Dungeon Guardian). - Self damage can no longer be dodged. - Self damage now inflicts an individual type of invincibility frames. - Will now only proc every 0.67 seconds. Honeycomb, Brain of Confusion, and Solar Flare armor set - No longer trigger when taking damage from non-enemy hazards. - Now functional while in vanity slots. - Can now fully negate fall damage, rather than only reduce it to 1. Slimy Saddle (Slime Mount) - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 10 blocks. - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 20 blocks. Superheated Blood (Lava Shark) - Now grants immunity to Burning blocks. - Now grants lava vision and increased jump height when swimming in lava. - Water Walking is now disabled while mounted. Ancient Horn (Basilisk) - Fixed the Basilisk's innate double jump being overridden by extra jump accessories (e.g. Cloud in a Bottle). They now stack as intended. Bosses, Invasions, and Events General - You can now use Pylons during boss fights and invasions. - Shimmer invincibility no longer applies to bosses, invasion enemies, or the Torch God. You cannot hide! - Can now teleport to platforms. - Now also drops Unholy Arrows on Crimson worlds. - You can now dash through Deerclops' legs using a Shield of Cthulhu or Solar armor (previously you would collide with it). - Fixed Shadow Hands appearing on top of non-targeted players in multiplayer. - Hand movement when slamming is now a bit smarter, avoiding an issue that caused it to fly off-screen. - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. - Fixed Duke Fishron transitioning too quickly from its final ram attack to the Cthulunado/Bubble Circle in phase 2 (does not affect Expert+ difficulty). - Firing rate reduced by 25%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~30%. - Firing range reduced by ~10%. - Accuracy slightly decreased. - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow speed reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow damage reduced from 80 to 70. - Firing range reduced by ~20%. - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~20%. - Bullet accuracy decreased. - Cannonball charge time increased from 1 second to 3 seconds. - Interrupting the Pirate Captain while he is charging his cannonball attack now reduces the charge time by 0.33 seconds, to a minimum of 1 second. Once he fires a cannonball, the charge time will reset back to 3 seconds. - Cannonball speed increased by ~40%. Flying Dutchman and Martian Saucer - Expert+ health scaling reduced from 100% of base health to 85%. Enemies and Critters Conveyor Belt interactions - Critters, regular Mimics, Lost Girls, Slimes, Gnomes and Bound NPCs are now affected by Conveyor Belts. - Antlions can now spit Sand while on Conveyor Belts. - Spawn chance from wild Jungle plants reduced by 25%. - Can now drop items in Hardmode again, but cannot drop Souls or Biome Keys. - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. Now more likely to spawn for lucky players. - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. - Rock Golem Head drop chance increased from 10% to ~33.33%. - Now drop Gel. - Can now spawn on Ice and Snow Blocks outside of the Snow biome. - Spawn chance reduced by ~25%. - Spawn chance reduced by ~33%. - Can now tolerate slightly windier conditions. Villagers General - Can now arrive even when there are no available houses. Only one will arrive per day, and they will leave if they do not have a house by nightfall. - Villagers now take priority over Town pets when respawning. - Can now attack enemies while talking to players. - Defeating a boss now also gives each villager a 1.5% attack speed bonus. - Now also gain stat bonuses from defeating King Slime, Deerclops, and Duke Fishron. - Will now avoid Stinky players. - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health regeneration by 500%. - Increased arrow damage from 8 to 12. - Dryad's Blessing defense bonus to other villagers increased from 6 to 10 in Classic difficulty, 10 to 15 in Expert and 14 to 20 in Master. - Defeating Queen Slime, Duke Fishron, and Empress of Light now boost the damage of Dryad's Bane by 15% each (same as other Hardmode bosses). - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health from 250 to 500. - Increased health regeneration by 900%. - Increased attack rate by 200%. - Increased knockback resistance from 50% to 75%. World Tombstones, Ghosts, and Graveyards - Tombstones can now be broken three times as fast (no change on For the Worthy worlds). - Ghost spawn chance from breaking a Tombstone reduced from 50% in all difficulties to 12.5% in Classic and 25% in Expert (Master unchanged). - Ghosts that spawn from broken Tombstones now only care about their initial target. Once said target is slain, they will attempt to flee. - Ghosts no longer pick up money on Expert+ difficulty. - The Peace Candle now reduces the boosted spawn rates of Graveyard biomes by 33%. Other - Newly generated Mythril, Orichalcum, Adamantite, and Titanium Ore patches are now the same size as Cobalt and Palladium patches. - Windy Days and Rain now only occur when there is a player in the world with at least one Life Crystal consumed. - Rain is now less obscuring while a boss fight or event is ongoing. Tools and Utility General - You can now Block Swap blocks that are touching lava. - All multi-hook grappling hooks can now have multiple hooks in flight, rather than just one. - When jumping from a grapple, you now jump the full height rather than half. - Velocity and range increased by ~7%. Golden Bug Net, Lavaproof Bug Net, and Lawn Mower - Can now cut large Jungle plants. - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it's held. - Axe power reduced from 150% to 125%. - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it's held. - Now only drops Hardmode ores when in Hardmode. - Now douses torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Wet debuff now gives immunity to On Fire!, Hellfire, and Burning debuffs. - Now ignites torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Slimed debuff now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite, and Shadowflame debuffs. - Slimed debuff duration reduced from 25 seconds to 3 seconds. - Now has a slightly bigger area of effect. - Now converts walls, and also purifies Hallow blocks and walls. Vile Powder and Vicious Powder - Now have a slightly bigger area of effect. Wiring and Mechanisms - Venom Dart Traps now require a Mythril Anvil to craft. - Cannons are now fired by using torches rather than ammo. They can also be fired using a wire signal (cooldown is shared between cannons). Cannonballs are now a decorative item. - Snowballs fired by a wired Snowball Launcher now deal damage. It shares its fire cooldown with the cannons. - Flame Traps now inflict the Hellfire debuff. - Using all three lava fishing enablers (Hotline Fishing Hook, Lavaproof Fishing Hook, lava critter bait) will now give you an additional bonus when fishing in lava. - You can now gain the Fishing Power bonus of sitting from any chair, not just toilets. Buffs and Consumables - Flying a kite now grants the High Spirits buff, increasing movement speed, mining speed, placement speed and luck. - Kites are now automatically deployed when AFKing for more than 1 minute. - No longer makes you fully invisible on your own client, so you can better see what you are doing (you are still fully invisible to other players). - Getting hit while invisible now reduces the remaining buff time by 1 minute rather than removing it outright. - Now reduces the time to answer a call of nature by 75% (reduces the time to produce Poo by 75%). - Now can also affect villagers (via the Ale Tosser), granting a 10% damage, defense and attack speed boost. - Now increases Villager happiness by 10%. - Now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite, and Shadowflame debuffs. - Now grants Well Fed (tier 1) instead of Plenty Satisfied (tier 2). Duration unchanged. - Recipe cost increased from 10 Pumpkins to 15. - Healing increased from 20 to 30. - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 45 seconds. - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 40 seconds. - Now resets the player's hunger in The Constant worlds. - Buff now only applies to melee items and projectiles as intended. Advanced Combat Techniques and Advanced Combat Techniques: Volume Two - Defense bonus increased from 6 to 8. - Damage bonus increased from 20% to 25%. - Now increases villager health by 250 each. - Now grants a 20% attack speed bonus (stacks multiplicatively). Drop and Obtainment Changes - No longer drops Bacon. - Drop chance from Mother Slime, Snow Flinx, Undead Viking, and Armored Viking reduced from 2% to 1%. - Drop chance from bat enemies reduced from 1% to 0.5%. - Drop chance from Salamanders, Crawdads, and Giant Shellies increased from 4% to 6.67%. - Drop chance from all bats reduced from 0.4% to 0.33%. - Drop chance from Snow Flinxes increased from 2% to 4%.(Actually, increased from 1/150 (0.67%)[2] to 1/25 (4%)) - Drop chance from the Tavernkeep reduced from 16.67% to 12.5%. - Drop chance from fishing increased by ~33%. - Drop chance from Enchanted Sword Shrines increased from 2% to 3.33%. - Drop chance from Rock Golems increased from 10% to ~33.33%. - Now drops from both Lamia variants at the same rate (2.5%). - Now drops from the Empress of Light in a stack of 3, up from 1. War Table and War Table Banner - Now drop from Ogres. - Now has a ~3.33% chance to be dropped by King Slime. - Can now be crafted at a Heavy Assembler (the crafting station formerly known as Heavy Work Bench) in Graveyards. - Now also sold by the Steampunker in the Jungle after Golem has been defeated. - Can now be crafted at Lihzahrd Furnaces from 10 Lihzahrd Bricks. - Pink Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 1.33% to 2.5%. - Black Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 6.22% to 7.5%. - White Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 12.44% to 15%. Obsidian Crate and Hellstone Crate - Replaced the ore and bar drops by Hellstone and Hellstone Bars respectively. - Now have a 5% chance to contain Hellforges. Dungeon Crate and Stockade Crate - Now have a 50% chance to contain Dungeon Bricks. - Biome Fishing Crates now have a chance to contain paintings from their biomes. - Now replaces Suspicious Looking Eyes in Frozen Chests. Recipe changes Watches, Goggles, and Sunglasses - Now crafted at a Work Bench rather than chairs with tables (these are no longer used for any crafting). All Loom Recipes - Can now also be crafted at Living Looms. All Water Recipes - Can now also be crafted at Fountains. - Now require 15 gems to craft, up from 10. Endless Quiver and Endless Musket Pouch - Recipe cost increased from 3996 Wooden Arrows/Musket Balls to 9999. - 1 Worm Tooth now makes 20 Arrows (up from 5), and 1 Vertebrae now makes 10 (up from 5). Wooden Arrow cost increased to match. - Now requires an Anvil to craft. Cursed Dart, Ichor Dart, and Crystal Dart - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Spider armor, Spider Staff, and Queen Spider Staff - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. - Can now also be crafted using Glowing Mushrooms and Gel. - Can now also be crafted from Golden Carp. - Can now also be crafted from Owl. - Can now also be crafted from Ebonstone, Crimstone, and Pearlstone. - Recipe now crafts 2 Stink Potions, up from 1. Shop and Price Changes - Now sold by villagers regardless of how happy they are (they do still need at least 2 other villagers in their vicinity). - Now also available from the Traveling Merchant when King Slime or Deerclops have been defeated. - Buy price reduced from 10 GC to 5 GC. - Buy price increased from 10 GC to 15 GC. - Buy price reduced from 1 PC to 50 GC. - Buy price reduced from 1 PC to 75 GC. - The Dryad now sells all of the Planter Boxes without any boss requirements. Potted Forest and Jungle Trees - Now sold by the Dryad in pre-Hardmode (the Hallowed trees still have a Hardmode requirement). - Now sold by the Goblin Tinkerer in pre-Hardmode. - Sell price increased from 1 SC to 25 SC. - Sell price increased from 50 SC to 2 GC. - Sell price increased from 2 GC50 SC to 7 GC50 SC to match the Molten Charm. - Sell price increased from 5 GC to 9 GC. - No longer sold by Steampunker. - Sell price reduced from 2 GC to 40 CC. - Now also sold by the Mechanic in Graveyards. - Now also sold by the Painter in Graveyards if the Mechanic is present in the world. Special Seeds - Reduced the amount of Larvae placed during world generation. - Gem blocks are no longer replaced with Crispy Honey Blocks during world generation. - The passive mining boost now also applies when using Block Swap. - Pre-Hardmode Mimics now have a 5% chance to drop Flare Guns and Extractinators. - Katana and Keybrand are no longer swapped in progression. - Depth-based quest fish are now easier to catch. - Ocean biome Crates are now less common, allowing a more balanced distribution of the other Biome Crates. Bug Fixes Crashes and Major Issues - Fixed several multiplayer crashes involving furniture. - Fixed a rare crash when placing torches in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare magical crash involving Unicorns in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash involving painted cacti and the minimap. - Fixed a rare multiplayer crash involving animated trails. - Fixed some crashes involving sounds. - Fixed a rare crash involving snails. Yes, snails. - Fixed a multiplayer crash involving faraway villagers. - Fixed a Pylons multiplayer crash. - Fixed a freeze caused by spawning NPCs when most of the world has been wiped of blocks. - Fixed a lighting crash caused by running the game at a very high resolution. - Fixed crash involving Enchanted Sword Shrines. - Fixed a few crashes related to display modes. - Fixed a server crash caused by loading a world of a newer version than the server. - Fixed a crash involving the Flying Dutchman in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash caused by leaving a multiplayer world and joining a singleplayer world. - Fixed crashes involving emotes. - Fixed a crash caused by resizing the window while waiting for Host & Play to start. - Fixed a crash on iOS when toggling Fullscreen. - Fixed crash involving Dressers and merging liquids. - Fixed the -join launch parameter reverting all player files to their backups when launching the game. Player - Fixed spawning code not clearing spawn properly. - Fixed cases where respawning would consider passthrough blocks as solid. - Fixed some projectiles not applying their debuffs in PvP. - Fixed PvP debuffs scaling with difficulty. - Fixed Journey Mode's Pickup power ignoring Pickup speed boosts. - Fixed the Slimed debuff not showing its duration. - Fixed being unable to pick up a dead player's items if they have not respawned yet. - Fixed a bug where Quick Buff could consume non-consumable items if used when you have no buff items in your inventory. - Fixed quick mounting a Minecart Track always grappling the track even if there are solid blocks in the way. - Fixed some mismatches between Torch God's Favor and the current biome detection. - Fixed minecarts having a smaller hitbox when traveling in liquid. - Fixed Hardcore player Ghosts contributing to enemy health scaling in Expert+ difficulty. - Fixed Informational Accessories still showing their info on Hardcore player Ghosts. - Fixed Block Swap's speed not matching the player's best pickaxe. - Fixed certain buffs not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed hooks not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed certain debuffs being removable via right click. - Fixed the Lucky Break achievement not being granted if you are Stoned. - Fixed the Matching Attire achievement not unlocking when quick-equipping vanity. - Fixed Smart Cursor placing Palm Trees too close together. - Smart Cursor now properly reacts to changes in item placement range when placing blocks and walls. - Torches are now properly placable on platforms when Smart Cursor is on. - Fixed Smart Cursor not targeting the blocks directly below the player when mining if the cursor is close to the player's feet. - Biome calculations are now based on the position of the player rather than the position of the camera. This means that using Binoculars or Rifle Scopes no longer changes the player's biomes. Items - Fixed the Magic Conch not always teleporting you onto solid ground. - Fixed the Staff/Axe of Regrowth breaking Flower vines. - Fixed Battle Potion and Mechanical Worm returning Crimson materials when shimmered on Corrupt worlds. - Fixed Chest Locks being usable on Dressers. - Fixed Spectre Paintbrush and Roller being usable when there is no paint in the inventory. - Fixed the Presserator placing Actuators in empty blocks when placing certain objects over existing objects (e.g. Antlion Egg). - Fixed Queen Spider Staff sentry's eggs and baby spiders not being able to fall through platforms. - Fixed certain cases of Paladin's Shield overdealing and underdealing damage. - Fixed the Paladin's Shield deflecting instant kill damage from the Dungeon Guardian, Skeletron, and Skeletron Prime. - Paladin's Shield buff can no longer be cleared by right-clicking. - Fixed the Gray/Orange Zapinator's tooltip still showing a mana cost in its tooltip when using Meteor armor. - Fixed Water Candles not being holdable underwater, despite being placeable underwater. - Fixed Gas Traps not working in singleplayer when autopause is on. - Fixed the Vampire Knives, Scourge of the Corruptor, and Shadowflame Knife firing inaccurately at high melee speeds. - Fixed Binoculars being able to see further than intended on high resolutions. - Fixed Wormhole Potion not teleporting you to the right position if both you and the target are mounted. - Fixed the Robbing the Grave achievement not being triggered by the Shadow Jousting Lance. - Fixed extremely rare cases of items staying in the inventory despite having a stack size of 0. - Fixed Life Drain and Resonance Scepter's knockback in PvP. - Improved the reliability of certain quick projectiles, like the Heat Ray. - Fixed Stellar Tune having a limited range on gamepad. - Fixed Stellar Tune's "no line of sight" damage penalty not applying to PvP. - Fixed Brown Solution converting certain stone walls to dirt walls. - Fixed Green Solution converting Jungle walls to stone walls. - Fixed Drills, Chainsaws, and the Chlorophyte Jackhammer being one tick slower than they should be. - Fixed the Spider Staff's spider minions sometimes getting locked up during movement. - Fixed Temple Keys being consumed from every inventory the player has instead of just once, when attempting to unlock the Temple Door. - Fixed Teleporters sometimes failing their initial use in multiplayer. - Fixed items from Fishing Crates, Treasure Bags and Presents never having modifiers. - Fixed Shield of Cthulhu's first dash after joining a world not hitting anything. - You can no longer blow up the Snake Charmer's Flute's snake. You monster. - Fixed items getting stuck in weird states after being thrown into certain Shimmer pools. - Fixed releasing critters in reverse gravity not releasing them at the cursor. - Fixed Jousting Lances having an asymmetrical hitbox when attacking. - Fixed Vortex Beater, Phantasm, Phantom Phoenix, and Celebration Mk2 dealing contact damage. - Improved Portal Gun teleportation stability in multiplayer. - Trash items (items with rarity) are no longer immune to lava. - Fixed Water Gun projectiles being destroyed when getting near water. - Fixed the Shiny Red Balloon and its upgrades sometimes reducing total jump height, for example when in water. - Fixed Hive Pack's Giant Bees being instantly slain by Shimmer. - Fixed boomerang weapons getting locked out when thrown off the edges of the world. - Clinger Staff is now properly usable on top of Planter Boxes. - Fixed Red's set and the Fairy Bell rarely allowing you to have two fairies at once. - Fixed flails breaking at high melee speed. - Fixed rapidly switching between projectile firing weapons (e.g. Starfury) allowing you fire more projectiles than intended. - Fixed certain mounts being slowed by certain accessories. - Fixed Purification Powder converting mowed grass into unmowed grass. - Fixed synchronization of the Charged Blaster Cannon in multiplayer. - Fixed being able to sell back items purchased with Defender Medals for their full buy price in coins. - Fixed synchronization issues involving Fairy Glowsticks. - Fixed an issue with The Dirtiest Block's behavior. - Fixed rare cases where Yoyo Counterweights would fail to appear. - Fixed the Archery Potion's damage bonus not being reflected in the damage tooltips of arrows. Bosses, Invasions and Events - Fixed some inconsistencies between loot dropped directly by bosses in Classic difficulty and loot obtained from Treasure Bags in Expert+. - Fixed invasions not being properly synced in multiplayer. - Fixed boss minimap icons not animating smoothly when far away. - Fixed cases where two Eye of Cthulhus would appear at once. You were definitely just seeing twice. - Fixed the Eater of Worlds not being considered a "danger" for certain mechanics such as the Pylon Network despite being the literal Eater of Worlds! - Fixed an issue where Deerclops could get stuck into an infinite falling loop when teleporting. - Deerclops' Shadow Hands now avoid spawning on all players, rather than just the primary target. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Laser not firing properly. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Bomb explosions appearing in the wrong position in multiplayer. - Fixed Empress of Light's Ethereal Lances sometimes not spawning in the correct position. - Fixed enraged Empress of Light's contact damage being dodgeable on Don't dig up worlds under certain circumstances. - Fixed spooky cases of the Pumpking disappearing in the middle of the fight, never to return. - Fixed Flocko and Krampus not being counted as part of the Frost Moon. - Fixed Dark Mages and Ogres almost always arriving from the left portal in tier 1 and 2 Old One's Army events. They will now randomly pick a portal. - Fixed an asymmetry in Lightning Aura's minimum placement distance during the Old One's Army event. - Fixed Old One's Army enemies being affected by Shimmer. - Fixed Martian Saucer increasing the player's respawn time in multiplayer. Enemies - Fixed "<Enemy name> has arrived!" messages appearing in the chat in worlds with lots of active enemies. - Fixed a spawn cap exploit involving Antlion Eggs and Bees. - Fixed a rare bug where worm enemies segments could attach to other enemies. - Fixed Biome Mimics not turning hostile when damaged by lava. - The Bird Banner now properly applies to normal Birds, Blue Jays, and Cardinals. - Fixed destroying a Slimer's wings increasing its kill count. - Fixed the Golem sometimes spawning with multiple heads in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare bug where a second bound version of an NPC could spawn at the same time the first one is rescued. - Fixed NPC buffs not being synced when a player first joins a server. - Fixed spiders sometimes managing to clip through solid blocks! Aaaah! - Fixed Crimson Pigrons uniquely being incapable of entering water. - Fixed rain enemies spawning in the wrong places on Don't dig up worlds. - Fixed Wraiths and Hoppin' Jacks not spawning in the right places on Don't dig up worlds. - Fixed certain Crimslime variants not counting towards the Gelatin World Tour achievement. - The Nurse can no longer remove Brain of Confusion's Cerebal Mindtrick buff. She was slightly confused there. - Fixed multiplayer issues involving Antlion's sand balls. - Fixed web spitting spiders spitting webs at slain players. - Fixed Spiked Slimes maintaining their focus on players that they've slain. - Improved Fighter AI enemies' ability to jump on platforms. - Fixed Fighter AI enemies jumping endlessly on platforms, when at the same elevation as their target. - Fixed rare cases of NPCs being perpetually wet, making the bees very sad. - Fixed Jungle and Spiked Ice Slimes sometimes spawning inside of blocks. - Fixed worm enemies with picked up coins not respawning properly in Expert+. - Fixed some Snow biome NPCs being unable to spawn on Red Ice Block. - Fixed Corrupt and Crimson enemies not spawning correctly on Lesion and Flesh Blocks. - Fixed For the Worthy and Journey Mode scaling issues. Villagers - Fixed cases where the Dryad would forget how to do math when asked about the world's infection status. - Fixed the Skeleton Merchant having broken behaviour in liquids. Additionally, he can no longer spawn in liquid. - Fixed Skeleton Merchant ignoring a player's Shadow Candle and appearing anyway. - Fixed the spirit of Christmas preventing NPCs from being killed when falling out of the bottom of the world. - Fixed villagers not dropping their party hats if slain during a party. Blocks and Furniture - Fixed Platforms and Planter Boxes not framing properly when next to Echo (coated) blocks. - Fixed Aetherium Brick not blending with Dirt. - Fixed Teleporters not breaking objects above them when they are broken. - Fixed being able to place items in Weapon Racks/Item Frames while you are using them. - Mowed Hallowed grass no longer spreads paint when it grows. - Fixed closed doors breaking objects in their way when interacted with even if the door is blocked. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly breaking objects when placed by Block Swap. - Fixed placed Garden Gnomes having incorrect minimap labels. - Campfires and torches are now properly limited to their water resistant variants when Block Swapping them underwater. - Fixed certain hanging objects like Boulder Statues not breaking when their anchor blocks are block swapped into platforms. - Fixed being unable to place Moss on a single, isolated block. - Fixed being unable to place Ash grass on a single, isolated Ash Block. - Fixed platforms other than wood not being considered solid surfaces in certain cases. - Fixed being able to block swap solid blocks onto platforms that players are standing in. - Fixed Acorns not being plantable on Ash grass. - Fixed Crystal Shards, Holiday Lights and gems being placeable on the "wrong" side of sloped blocks. - Fixed cases where breaking one cage would break another adjacent cage. - Fixed Gem Trees breaking when moss spreads beneath them. - Fixed being able to step on a Weighted Pressure Plate twice. - Fixed auto-paint and auto-actuation failing when using block swap to switch similar items, such as one chest for another. - Fixed being unable to place more rope on an already very long rope in multiplayer. - Fixed Water Sensors being triggered by Shimmer. - Fixed being able to toggle half of a hanging lantern in multiplayer. - Fixed Honey Blocks slowing you down too much in reverse gravity. - Fixed certain block interactions happening multiple times at low FPS, such as putting items in Item Frames. - Fixed being able to craft items while using a Mannequins or Hat Rack. - Fixed Hanging Brazier/Pots instantly breaking when hanging them under a platform/block combination. - Fixed Bubbles being actuatable by timers. - Fixed vines not considering mowed grass a valid anchor, making them liable to spontaneous decomposition. - Fixed Land Mines and Geysers spawning projectiles twice in multiplayer. - Fixed unsafe Desert Fossil Walls being considered suitable housing material. World - Fixed biome music and backgrounds not having the same priorities, causing mismatches in certain biome combinations. - Fixed Meteorites not fully syncing in multiplayer when landing. - Fixed Meteorites not clearing slopes, paints and coatings when generated. - Fixed Hardmode ores retaining paint when generating over painted blocks. - Fixed certain Pyramid pots having broken map colours. - Fixed Palm Trees not inheriting the paint and coating of their root block when growing. - Fixed Palm Trees, Bamboo, Seaweeds, and Sea Oats not being coated when growing on a block with Illuminant Coating. - Fixed certain tree branches dropping Acorns when they're above grass blocks. - Fixed Sakura and Yellow Willow trees not converting properly. - Fixed Celebrationmk10 worlds flagging the initially spawned villagers as unlocked. - Boulders now properly interact with Shimmer. - Fixed rare cases of trees growing through solid blocks. - Fixed darkness damage applying incorrectly while the screen is panning in The Constant worlds. - Fixed luck incorrectly affecting damage from cutting Cactus in The Constant worlds. - Fixed grass and desert wall infection spreading asymmetrically. - Fixed Ash Trees dropping regular wood in certain cases. - Lily pads can now properly grow above Mowed Hallowed grass. - Fixed lily pads losing their paint when floating up or down. - Fixed wild Crimson plants not counting as Crimson blocks. - Fixed grass spread synchronization in multiplayer. - Fixed the underground to cavern background transitions not matching with Depth Meter values. - The Dryad now counts Lesion and Flesh Blocks as Corrupt/Crimson blocks in Don't dig up worlds. - Fixed Living Tree leaves burrowing into Floating Lakes and drinking all the water. Save some for the fish! - Rain now only stops Fireblossom from blooming if it is growing in a layer that actually experiences rain. World Generation - Fixed several minor world gen issues. - Fixed Boulders sometimes generating without a surrounding trap. - Fixed Boulder traps sometimes generating without a Boulder. - Fixed honey patches appearing outside of the Jungle (such as in the Underworld). - Fixed several liquid merge issues. - Fixed rare cases of Floating Island chests not containing their paintings. - Fixed Boulder traps overlapping and breaking containers in rare situations. - Fixed extremely rare cases where Minecart Tracks would manage to get into the Dungeon and Jungle Temple. - Fixed campsites sometimes generating too close to the Dungeon. - Fixed rare cases of Jungle Temple chest loot appearing inside Mushroom Chests. - Fixed a minor bug with liquid cleanup during world generation. - Fixed Underground Cabins attempting to generate outside the world. - Fixed traps in the Jungle Temple sometimes generating without a Pressure Plate. - Fixed spider stalactites and honey stalactites/stalagmite not generating. - Fixed Living Wood Chests at the surface containing underground loot. - Fixed Living Wood Chests appearing outside of Living Trees. - Fixed exposed gems and Crystal Shards generating on Boulders and closed doors. - Fixed rare cases where Not the bees worlds were missing an Ocean. - Fixed cases of Underground Desert Pressure Plates appearing over other objects. - Fixed several chest loot items not appearing with modifiers. - Fixed a rare case where a new world could start at night. Spooky! - Fixed rare failures to place wild Jungle plants during generation. - Fixed cases of the Dead Man's Chest Boulders spawning over other valuables such as Life Crystals. - Fixed the wrong kind of pots generating in the Underground Desert. - Fixed the Dungeon's guaranteed Shadow Key always being placed in a Biome Chest. Shadow Keys no longer generate in Biome Chests at all. UI - Fixed favorited ammo sometimes being affected by quick stacking. - Fixed being unable to navigate the inventory when placing chests on gamepad. - Fixed the Create World menu showing the wrong world size preview image when initially opened. - Fixed the Resource Pack info scrollbar overlapping the textbox. - Fixed the main menu sometimes being upside down when quitting a world with reverse gravity active. - Fixed the back button in some menus backtracking all the way to the title screen instead of the previous menu. - Fixed the game falling back to the default hotbar hotkeys (1 through 0) rather than the assigned hotkeys while an item is being used. - Fixed Quick Stack to Nearby Chests taking items from ammo and hotbar slots in certain cases. - Fixed some NPCs in the Bestiary appearing in the wrong size. - Axe tools now get sorted properly when sorting. - Fixed dyes not getting sorted when sorting. - Fixed NPCs appearing incorrectly in the Bestiary in For the Worthy worlds. - Fixed some oddities with the hover range of Chest menu buttons. - Fixed death markers being invisible in the overlay map. - Fixed rare cases where UI elements would overlap when the player has the maximum amount of accessory slots. - Fixed the Metal Detector not always highlighting the most valuable treasure. - Fixed the Stopwatch showing wrong values when moving through Shimmer. - Fixed the DPS Meter not taking NPC defense into account in some cases. - Fixed items potentially being picked up into the cursor when opening Chester, the Money Trough or the Void Vault portal at high UI scales. - Fixed Bestiary kill counts resetting to 0 on multiplayer when getting very high. - Fixed the cursor icon flickering when hovering over the minimap buttons. - Fixed the Guide forgetting his initial 'help' text in certain cases. He only needed a bit of help, that's all. - Fixed the Guide's help text on grappling hooks not checking for all hook types. - Fixed the world's edge not matching up with the minimap's edge. - Fixed certain hairstyles potentially not appearing in the Stylist's shop menu. - Fixed scrolling through the Stylist's hair window also scrolling through your hotbar under certain zoom settings. - Fixed repeatedly sorting sometimes causing items to leapfrog over each other. - Fixed the incorrect error message displaying when trying to join a server with an incompatible character. - Fixed shops showing incorrect gamepad hints. - Fixed the cursor icon not always indicating when you are about to trash an item. - Fixed multiplayer chat not drawing above Hardcore ghost's heads. - Fixed Void Vault and Defender's Forge icons overlapping in the savings display. - Fixed exiting the virtual keyboard on gamepad also closing the Journey menu. - Fixed the mouse cursor rendering incorrectly when certain menus are open. - Fixed certain chat commands converting their input to lowercase. - Fixed mouseover text appearing when hovering over certain buttons that have items behind them in the world. - Fixed gamepad navigation in the villager housing menu when there is only one column of villagers. - Fixed teleporting causing erratic minimap patterns. - Fixed map pings persisting between worlds. - Fixed Quick Use deleting items when used while an item is already mid-use. - Fixed the Esc key not working for anything but chat on Mac/Linux. - Fixed the game overlaying the cursor for the rest of the session when the mouse is disconnected and then reconnected on Mac. - Fixed the Ruler's distance display scaling with World Zoom rather than UI Scale. - Fixed being unable to quick-unequip the Master Mode accessory on Steam Deck. - Fixed quick-crafted coins on gamepad immediately converting back to their original denomination. - Fixed the player being dismounted when opening the Bestiary on gamepad. - Fixed the "Take One" action on gamepad not working for single items. - Fixed the Smart Cursor icon rendering in the fullscreen map on gamepad. - Fixed the Smart Cursor visual extending beyond the player's functional range in extreme situations. - Fixed Smart Cursor's direction lock being asymmetrical. - Fixed a visual issue with the achievement unlocked notifications. - Fixed house assignment not working correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed D-Pad cursor snapping not working in reverse gravity. - Fixed moving the map not respecting mouse input at certain resolutions. - Fixed a duplicate gamepad hint that appears when hovering over the minecart equip slot. - Fixed other player's names showing when hovering over them while they are invisible. - Fixed the gamepad hints for accessory slots in Master Mode being incorrect in certain cases. - Fixed gamepad's virtual keyboard breaking on lower framerates. - Fixed kites responding to mouse clicks when trying to click interface buttons. - Bed and Spawn map icons are now properly centered. - Fixed player chat text going offscreen when resizing the game window. - Emotes are now correctly removed when players are slain. Camera Mode - Fixed the sky not appearing correctly in captures during rain. - Fixed the Aether biome's background stars not appearing properly in snapshots of underground areas. - Fixed certain background elements not appearing in their correct place in camera captures. - Fixed blurry backgrounds in high resolution camera captures. - Fixed Monoliths not properly working with camera captures. - Fixed camera captures sometimes not having transparent backgrounds when backgrounds are disabled. - Fixed large world snapshots with lots of furniture crashing in certain circumstances. - Fixed the screenshot area being affected by UI scale. - Fixed water artifacts appearing in snapshots. Visual Issues - Fixed the Tax Collector's set's scarf being visible when you are transformed into a Werewolf or Merfolk. - Fixed Starlight's animation not pausing when the game is paused. - Dungeon Guardian now properly emits effects when attacked. - Fixed several items not matching the player's stealth when held out. - Fixed drinking Biome Sight Potion not producing particles. - Fixed some stalactites/stalagmites having the wrong break dusts. - Fixed the leaf burst from a growing tree not using the tree's paint. - Fixed the Hellfire Treads' and Terraspark Boots' effects not being affected by dye properly. - Fixed Xeno Staff minions not displaying attack dusts on remote clients. - Fixed Queen Slime's projectiles not having the same default brightness as her minion's projectiles. - Fixed brightness flickering when entering a surface Glowing Mushroom biome. - Fixed cases where the camera would move very fast instead of transitioning to black when teleporting. - Fixed the game not using a black fade transition when switching from tracking view (Golf Ball, FPV Goggles) to Binoculars. - Fixed certain backgrounds having their treetops slightly cut-off. - Fixed the Flesh Grinder not rendering properly. - Fixed rare visual errors with Martian Dye. - Fixed various plants ignoring certain paints. - Fixed some furniture not properly reacting to coatings. - Fixed tree shake effects playing twice in multiplayer in certain cases. - Fixed certain mounts making bubble effects appear in the wrong position underwater. - Fixed NPCs rarely sliding instead of teleporting after using Teleporters in multiplayer. - Fixed regular and wooden minecarts animating in reverse. - Fixed Brain of Cthulhu sometimes rendering incorrectly in phase two. - Fixed certain items being offset incorrectly when used by mounted players. - Fixed visual glitches from Magic Missile-type weapons on certain graphics cards. - Fixed certain cases where liquid would incorrectly draw, especially near Bubbles. - Fixed some visual issues with sleeping in a bed. - Fixed the Pigron mount's idle animation not being used. - Fixed Jellyfish jars' Placement Previews and glow masks being skewed. - Fixed Jellyfish jars not creating extra bright light when the Jellyfish is glowing. - Fixed Placement Preview issues with placed Signs, Tattered Signs, Arrow Signs, Item Frames, Switches, and Announcement Boxes. - Fixed the alchemy herbs' Placement Preview not being accurate. - Fixed visual glitches with child safe gores. - Fixed the mana gained effect from the Magic Cuffs appearing twice for other players. - Fixed certain wings unintentionally being visible when grappled to a surface. - Fixed the Eyebrella spawning rain while the fullscreen map is active, causing a burst of rain when you close the map. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly attaching to the ground. - Fixed main menu sometimes showing watery ripples. - Fixed some chandeliers not emitting sparks. - Fixed small visual oddities with Chain Knife and Chain Guillotines. - Fixed yucky cases where Stinkbug Blockers would appear incorrectly. - Fixed the Crystal Dart projectiles not properly rotating when bouncing. - Fixed some issues with the Crystal Serpent's visual effects. - Fixed some interactions between glowing blocks and complete darkness. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparition's... appearance? - Fixed certain visual effects that track players incorrectly tracking velocity. - Fixed Orange Stained Glass appearance in the Underworld. - Fixed the Gold Water Strider not emitting sparkles. - Fixed Truffle Worm losing its glow effect when escaping from players. - Fixed certain wings not becoming fully invisible when entering stealth (e.g. Shroomite armor). - The Inner Tube now correctly gets affected by stealth. - Fixed stray white pixels appearing around Pigrons and the Pigron Mount. - Removed a white pixel in the Demolitionist and Tavernkeep's spritesheets that appears when they fall. - The main menu will no longer skip a moon phase when cycling through the days. - Players will no longer show their failed attempts at using mana consuming items, when they do not have enough mana, in multiplayer. - Fixed clouds moving excessively at low framerates. - Fixed distant clouds stuttering when moving vertically. - Fixed lava emitting water particles when a player gets out. - Fixed framing issues with Crystal Shards interacting with half-bricks. - Fixed wild Ash plants and lily pads not reacting to paint. - Fixed paint not working properly on Sunflowers. - Fixed Chlorophyte Partisan's projectile being visually cut off. - Fixed Shiverthorn not glowing in the dark. - Fixed blood disappearing quicker than intended. - Fixed players respawning with honey particles after being slain in honey. - Fixed scaling artifacts on Eater of Worlds' segments. - Fixed visual issues with Rocket Boots when mounting/swapping loadouts mid-air. - Fixed the Glass Slipper's sparkle effect being visible when the accessory isn't. - Fixed certain visual effects not functioning correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed several pets changing directions or going invisible when entering flight from standstill. - Improved Caveling Gardener's direction when standing still. - Fixed visual issues involving player's overhead chat, nameplates, reverse gravity, and high latencies. - Fixed the background suddenly disappearing at high altitude in certain circumstances. - Fixed the glow masks of certain dyes. - Improved Obsidian Skull Rose and Molten Skull Rose compatibility with various armor pieces. - Fixed certain furniture items not emitting their effects properly in Retro Lighting. - Fixed certain coats appearing incorrectly when the player is sitting. - Fixed visual issues when sitting while wearing some specific leg items. - Fixed Shimmer animations breaking when under the effect of a Hunter Potion. - Fixed a visual issue with the Graduation Gown. - Fixed a visual issue with the Fallen Tuxedo Pants. - Fixed a visual issue with the Desert Spirit. - Fixed inconsistencies in the item directions of minecarts, chairs, and beds. - Fixed fishing poles jittering when moving horizontally. - Fixed spears jittering when moving over slopes. - Fixed framing issues caused by block swapping Glass. - Fixed vines disappearing when their anchor block is hammered. - Fixed an issue with sloped glowing blocks. - Fixed a variety of enemies animating slower when walking to the left. - Fixed Snowfall Block drawing liquids behind it. - Fixed Headless Horseman's NPC's Pumpkin projectiles having upside down shadows. Spooky! - Fixed Truffle's glow not fading when shimmering. - Fixed Hades Dye not working properly on certain pets and mounts. - Fixed a lot of projectiles drawing twice. - Fixed the Mechanic being offset by a single pixel when sitting, which someone somehow noticed and made a Reddit post about! Thanks! - Fixed Echo coated blocks drawing black artifacts in certain cases. - Fixed Chlorophyte Dye's glow mask being in the wrong place at the right time. - Fixed Oozed debuff still producing visual effects on slain players. - Fixed waterfalls flowing upwards in certain cases. - Fixed certain visual effects appearing incorrectly in multiplayer at high latencies. - Fixed Moon Lord floating to the left in multiplayer in its final moments. - Fixed cut-off rendering on Retro Lighting at high resolutions. - Fixed a framing issue with exposed gems. - Fixed certain wings not blinking when the wearer is damaged. - Fixed Martian Conduit Wall's glow mask not aligning with the main sprite. - Fixed an issue with the Flesh Chandelier's animation. - Fixed Team Dye not applying properly to minions, pets, light pets, and hooks. Audio - Terraria no longer fails to launch when it fails to detect an available audio device. - Fixed item use sounds from remote clients not playing properly in multiplayer in specific cases. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparitions, Parrots, Pirate's Curse, Scutlices, and Martian Saucers not playing their invasion music if they're the only enemy left. - Fixed waterfall sounds being anchored to the player rather than the camera. - Fixed certain sounds playing twice when switching between menus. - Fixed the item pickup sound not always being centered. - Fixed Betsy's scream being audible throughout the whole world. - Fixed some sounds playing multiple times on the gamepad's virtual keyboard at low framerates. Localization - Fixed several IME issues. - Fixed references to mouse buttons in loading tips not being localized. - Improved line wrapping of text for some languages. - Fixed Green Cap, Ivy, and Jim's Cap not dropping when the game is set to certain languages. - Fixed Old One's Army, Pumpkin Moon, and Frost Moon having an extra colon in the numbered wave text. - Fixed the Drax's outdated name in several languages. - Fixed some errors in the Princess and Pirate's dialogue. - Fixed the Steampunker's party dialogue. - Fixed a typo in Goblin Tinkerer's happiness dialogue. - Fixed Celebration Mk2's projectiles having no localization. - Fixed some of the Tax Collector's dialogue being inaccessible. - Fixed several punctuation issues. - Fixed some inconsistencies with the credits localization. Miscellaneous - Terraria no longer fails to launch if a Resource Pack fails to load properly. - Fixed several certain exploits. - Fixed an incompatibility with Terraria 1.0.6.1 saves. - Fixed some input issues when using AZERTY keyboard layouts. - Fixed a rare "Lost connection" issue for slower clients. - Fixed the language option from the dedicated server configuration not working. - Fixed the autocreate option from the dedicated server configuration not working if used out of order. - Fixed the dedicated server's world argument crashing when the world does not exist, even ifautocreate is also used. - Improved menu related stability when joining friends via Steam. - Fixed an issue where uploading a player to the Steam Cloud when a player with the same name already exists there could delete that player's minimap data. - Fixed updating a published Steam Workshop item resetting its publicity to Public in certain cases. - Fixed some incorrect default values when opening Terraria for the first time. This caused hardware RGB to not function. - Fixed being unable to join your own Host & Play server after having previously connected to a server using a different port than 7777. Trivia - The timespan between 1.4.4.9 and 1.4.5.0 was 3 years, 2 months, and 10 days, making it the longest in-development update in the game's history. The second longest gap was between the updates 1.3.5.3 and 1.4.0.1, at 3 years and 23 days. - 1.4.5.0 is the only patch of the Desktop version since the initial 1.0 release to have a trailing zero in its version number. Wiki pages patched References - ↑ Terraria 1.4.5: Bigger & Boulder - Available Now! - ↑ Information taken from the Desktop 1.4.4.9 source code, method RegisterMiscDrops() inTerraria.GameContent.ItemDropRules.ItemDropDatabase.cs . - ↑ The intent is for this update to be relatively small in scope. Some Dead Cells crossover content, Seeds Menu, etc. January 2, 2023 - ↑ Terraria 1.4.5 is Coming in 2023 - including Terraria x Dead Cells! November 7, 2022 - ↑ Terraria State of the Game - August 2023 August 31, 2023 - ↑ "What started as a "quick and short" update to add our side of the Terraria x Dead Cells crossover content has morphed into a much larger update that we have been working on for over a year now." (Terraria State of the Game - February 2024) February 29, 2024 - ↑ Developer comments regarding a release date during the development of 1.4.5.0: - November 7, 2022 – Terraria 1.4.5 is Coming in 2023 - August 10, 2023 – It is at a minimum several months away. Maybe longer - August 31, 2023 – "[...] the update is going to take a bit longer to come out than we had originally anticipated. [...] we expect this extension to be in the scope of a few months at least" (Terraria State of the Game - August 2023) - October 26, 2023 – "[...] it is looking increasingly likely that we are looking at a 2024 release for 1.4.5 at this point." (Terraria State of the Game - October 2023) - November 30, 2023 – "With Crossplay and 1.4.5 on the horizon, 2024 is shaping up to be a big one [...]" (Terraria State of the Game - November 2023) - October 31, 2024 – No date yet and it is safe to say we will not have a date this year. :). 💚🌳 - November 28, 2024 – "[...] the next Terraria update is moving along into 2025." (Terraria State of the Game - November 2024)


--- [Leather Whip - Terraria Wiki] ---
Leather Whip Statistics | Type | | |---|---| | Damage | 14 (Summon) | | Knockback | 1 (Extremely weak) | | Use time | 30 (Average) | | Velocity | 8 (effective) | | Tooltip | 4 summon tag damage Your summons will focus struck enemies 'Die monster!' | | Rarity | | | Buy | 10 | | Sell | 2 | | Research | 1 required | Projectile created - Leather Whip Sounds | Use | | |---|---| | Whip crack | - Internal Item ID: 4672 - Internal Projectile ID: 841 The Leather Whip is a whip which is purchased from the Zoologist for 10anytime. Like other whips, it causes minions to focus on the last-struck enemy and increases their damage against the target. Its best modifier is Legendary. Trivia[] - The line 'Die monster!' in the tooltip is a reference to the platform-adventure action role-playing game Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, referring to the iconic intro dialogue between Dracula and Richter Belmont along with the latter's whip. The Leather Whip requires 10% of the Bestiary to be filled out to be available for purchase,[1] but since the Zoologist cannot spawn prior to that, it is always available when she is present. History[] - Desktop 1.4.1: Changed requirements for purchase from 15% to 10% Bestiary completion. - Desktop 1.4.0.1: Introduced. - Console 1.4.0.5.4.1: Introduced. - Mobile 1.4.0.5.0: Introduced.


--- [Leather Whip - Official Terraria Wiki] ---
Leather Whip From Terraria Wiki Jump to navigation Jump to search Leather Whip Statistics | Type | | |---|---| | Damage | 14 (Summon) | | Knockback | 1 (Extremely weak) | | Use time | 30 (Average) | | Velocity | 8 (effective) | | Tooltip | 4 summon tag damage Your summons will focus struck enemies 'Die monster!' | | Rarity | | | Buy | 10 GC | | Sell | 2 GC | | Research | 1 required | Projectile created - Leather Whip Sounds | Use | | |---|---| | Whip crack | - Internal Item ID: 4672 (Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Internal Projectile ID: 841 The Leather Whip is a pre-Hardmode whip with a tag effect of +4 damage, and it has a 50% multihit penalty. The Leather Whip can be purchased from the Zoologist for 10 GC after filling out at least 3% (17 entries) of the Bestiary. Therefore, it is normally always available for purchase, since the Zoologist does not appear before the Bestiary has been filled to at least 10%. The only exception is the secret world seed Vampirism, where she is the starting NPC. Its best modifier is Legendary. Trivia - The line 'Die monster!' in the tooltip is a reference to the 1997 platform-adventure action role-playing game Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, referring to the iconic intro dialogue between Dracula and Richter Belmont along with the latter's whip. History - Desktop 1.4.5.0: Changed requirements for purchase from 10% to 3% Bestiary completion. - Desktop 1.4.4: - Knockback increased from 0.5 to 1. - Buy price and sell value reduced from 15 GC/3 GC to 10 GC/2 GC. - Desktop 1.4.1: Changed requirements for purchase from 15% to 10% Bestiary completion. - Desktop 1.4.0.1: Introduced. - Console 1.4.0.5.4.1: Introduced. - Switch 1.4.0.5.5: Introduced. - Mobile 1.4.0.5.0: Introduced. View or edit this template Whips(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Melee Weapons Pre-Hardmode - Wooden Sword - Cactus Sword - Zombie Arm - Gladius(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Breathing Reed(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ruler(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Umbrella(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tragic Umbrella(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tentacle Spike(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Mandible Blade(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Bladed Glove - Stylish Scissors(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Candy Cane Sword(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Bat Bat(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Bone Sword - Flymeal(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Katana(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Ice Blade - Muramasa - Exotic Scimitar(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Phaseblade - Starfury - Purple Clubberfish - Enchanted Sword - Bee Keeper - Blade of Grass - Falcon Blade - Night's Edge - Pearlwood Sword - Classy Cane(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Waffle's Iron(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ham Bat(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Slap Hand(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Breaker Blade - Phasesaber - Ice Sickle - Cutlass - Frostbrand - Excalibur - Seedler(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Beam Sword - Bladetongue(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Brand of the Inferno(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Death Sickle - Fetid Baghnakhs(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Keybrand - Psycho Knife(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Flying Dragon(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - The Horseman's Blade - Christmas Tree Sword - True Excalibur - True Night's Edge - Terra Blade - Influx Waver(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Starlight(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Star Wrath(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Meowmere(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tizona(Old-gen console and 3DS versions) Other Melee Weapons Other - Spear - Trident - Storm Spear(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - The Rotted Fork - Swordfish - Dark Lance - Mushroom Spear - Ghastly Glaive(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Obsidian Swordfish - North Pole - Tonbogiri(Old-gen console and 3DS versions) - Wooden - Enchanted - Ice - Shroomerang(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Trimarang(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Fruitcake Chakram(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Bloody Machete - Thorn Chakram - Combat Wrench(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Flamarang - Flying Knife(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Light Disc - Bananarang - Sergeant United Shield(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Paladin's Hammer - Possessed Hatchet - Axearang(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Chain Knife - Mace(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Flaming Mace(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ball O' Hurt - The Meatball - Blue Moon - Anchor - Sunfury - KO Cannon - Chain Guillotines(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Dao of Pow - Drippler Crippler(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Flower Pow - Golem Fist - Flairon Yoyos (Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) (Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Other - Terragrim(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ale Tosser(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Arkhalis(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Shadowflame Knife(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Jousting Lance(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Sleepy Octopod(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Scourge of the Corruptor - Vampire Knives - Sky Dragon's Fury(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Daybreak(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Solar Eruption(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Zenith(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - True Copper Shortsword(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Removed Weapons Weapons - Scythe(3DS version) - Soul Scythe - Icemourne(3DS version) Ranged Weapons - Wooden - Copper - Tin - Iron - Lead - Silver - Tungsten - Gold - Platinum - Blood Rain(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Demon - Tendon - Hellwing(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - The Bee's Knees(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Molten Fury - Marrow - Phantom Phoenix(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Daedalus Stormbow(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ice - Shadowflame(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Aerial Bane(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tsunami - Pulse(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Eventide(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Phantasm(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Sharanga(Old-gen console and 3DS versions) - Cobalt - Palladium - Mythril - Orichalcum - Adamantite - Titanium - Hallowed - Chlorophyte Shotbow - Vulcan(Old-gen console and 3DS versions) - Flintlock Pistol - Boomstick - The Undertaker - Handgun - Shotgun - Quad-Barrel Shotgun(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Revolver(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Phoenix Blaster - Onyx Blaster(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Venus Magnum - Sniper Rifle - Egg Cannon(3DS version) Automatic Guns Guns - Minishark - Pew-matic Horn(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Clockwork Assault Rifle - Red Ryder(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Gatligator(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Megashark - Musket - Tactical Shotgun - Uzi - Chain Gun - Xenopopper(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Vortex Beater(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - S.D.M.G.(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Proximity Mine Launcher - Rocket Launcher - Grenade Launcher - Snowman Cannon - Electrosphere Launcher(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Celebration(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Celebration Mk2(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Other Ranged Weapons - Stynger - Jack 'O Lantern Launcher - Nail Gun(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Special Ammo Ammo - Blowpipe - Blowgun - Dart Pistol(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Dart Rifle(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Star Cannon - Super Star Shooter(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Other Unlimited Ammo Ammo - Water Gun(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Slime Gun(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Paintball Gun(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Harpoon - Piranha Gun - Toxikarp(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Consumable - Paper Airplanes(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Snowball - Rotten Egg - Shuriken - Throwing Knife - Star Anise(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Spiky Ball - Frost Daggerfish(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Javelin(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Bone(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Holy Water - Bone - Molotov Cocktail(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Beenade - Grenade Magic Weapons Direct - Amethyst Staff - Topaz Staff - Sapphire Staff - Emerald Staff - Amber Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ruby Staff - Diamond Staff Other - Wand of Sparking(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Wand of Frosting(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Gray Zapinator(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Aqua Scepter - Thunder Zapper(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Space Gun - Ice Rod - Golden Shower - Demon Scythe - Laser Rifle - Magic Dagger - Orange Zapinator(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Sky Fracture(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Shadowflame Hex Doll(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Crystal Serpent(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Leaf Blower - Frost Staff - Poison Staff - Razorpine - Heat Ray - Venom Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Unholy Trident - Bubble Gun - Laser Machinegun(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Charged Blaster Cannon(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Last Prism(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Betsy's Wrath(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Zapinator(3DS version) Area Effect - Vilethorn - Nettle Burst - Crimson Rod - Nimbus Rod - Clinger Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Crystal Vile Shard(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Blood Thorn(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Magnet Sphere - Rainbow Gun - Inferno Fork - Toxic Flask(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tome of Infinite Wisdom(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Resonance Scepter(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Homing - Bee Gun - Book of Skulls - Weather Pain(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Medusa Head(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Spirit Flame(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Wasp Gun - Bat Scepter - Razorblade Typhoon - Nightglow(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Stellar Tune(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Spectre Staff - Nebula Blaze(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Nebula Arcanum(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Bouncing Controlled - Magic Missile - Flamelash - Meteor Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Rainbow Rod - Life Drain(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Blizzard Staff - Lunar Flare(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Summon Weapons Minions - Finch Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Slime Staff - Flinx Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Abigail's Flower(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Vampire Frog Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Hornet Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Imp Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Blade Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Spider Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Sanguine Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Optic Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Pirate Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Pygmy Staff - Desert Tiger Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Raven Staff - Deadly Sphere Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Tempest Staff - Terraprisma(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Xeno Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Stardust Cell Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Stardust Dragon Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Sentries - Houndius Shootius(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Queen Spider Staff(Desktop, Console, Old-gen console and Mobile versions) - Staff of the Frost Hydra - Lunar Portal Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Rainbow Crystal Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Ballista Cane/Rod/Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Explosive Trap Cane/Rod/Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Flameburst Cane/Rod/Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Lightning Aura Cane/Rod/Staff(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Whips(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) Other Weapons - Bomb - Sticky - Bouncy(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Scarab(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Power(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Sticky Power(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Dynamite - Bomb Fish(Desktop, Console and Mobile versions) - Holy Hand Grenade(3DS version) Placeable Tool Weapon Retrieved from "https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Leather_Whip?oldid=975059" Hidden categories: - Pages using DynamicPageList3 dplvar parser function - Pages using DynamicPageList3 parser function - Entities patched in Desktop 1.4.5.0 - Entities patched in Desktop 1.4.4 - Entities patched in Desktop 1.4.1 - Entities introduced in Desktop 1.4.0.1 - Entities introduced in Console 1.4.0.5.4.1 - Entities introduced in Switch 1.4.0.5.5 - Entities introduced in Mobile 1.4.0.5.0 - Pages with navboxes


--- [Terraria Update 1.4.5 Patch Notes (Bigger & Boulder): New Features ...] ---
Terraria Update 1.4.5 Patch Notes (Bigger & Boulder): New Features, Bug Fixes, & More Posted on by Believe it or not, Terraria update 1.4.4 was released back in 2022. Now, after more than three years, Terraria update 1.4.5, and its massive patch notes, have finally arrived! With the Bigger and Boulder update comes a huge list of new features, collab events and items, and much more. As with any game update, patch notes have also arrived to show us exactly what has been tweaked and how. We've got all of the info and full Terraria 1.4.5 patch notes listed for you here! Terraria Update 1.4.5 Patch Notes (Bigger and Boulder Update) As of January 27, 2026, Terraria update 1.4.5 is live and available for all! It's been a long time coming, but loads of new content are now available. Dead Cells-themed items have arrived: a Shimmer Water Gun, radial buttons for mobile and console players, new music tracks, new transformation mounts, and more. New whips have arrived, a Palworld collaboration has arrived, and even new weather phenomena will now do their best to blow you off course during your Terraria adventures.Terraria Update 1.4.5 Patch Notes (Full) — January 27, 2026 With so much new content, there's loads to see and do. However, a great place to start is combing over the update 1.4.5 patch notes. An update with this many new features and changes can make it difficult to know what exactly to expect. Luckily, the development team has listed everything in a Here, you can take a look at the full patch notes for Terraria 1.4.5:Content Changes & Additions Seeds - Added the Skyblock seed, where you start out on nothing but a small floating island. It's up to you to build everything else! - Special seeds can now be combined! Some combinations may have some interesting interactions... - Added a new seed selection window to the world creation menu, which allows you to easily enable special seeds. - Added secret seeds. Items - Added 650+ new items. - Added 9 new whips. - Added over 60 new hairstyles! - Added 22 new furniture sets. - Added 20 new paintings. - Added Dead Cells crossover content, including: five new weapons, a buff station, a vanity set, an accessory, a loyal pet and a new way to display your items in the world. - Added Palworld crossover content, including 5 pals and a vanity outfit. - Added four new transformation mounts. - Added two new Pylons. - Added Stress Ball. - Added Magic String. - Added Strung Counterweight. - Added Roller Skates. - Added Prospector armor set. - Added Captain armor set. - Added Jungle Juice. - Added Torch God's Flavor. - Added Lucky Clover. - Added Raven Feather. - Added Pretty Mirror. - Added Blackened Fish. - Added Rock Candy. - Added Shimmer Gun. - Added Wall Racer Car. - Added Acorn Slingshot. - Added Slime Spear. - Added Slime Whip. - Added Super Bomb. - Added Freeze Bomb. - Added Mud Ball. - Added Rainbow Glowsticks. - Added Toybreaker Brick. - Added Sharp Spike blocks. - Added Dull Team Blocks. - Added Cloud Platforms. - Added Pink Phaseblade and Phasesaber. - Added Chlorophyte Visor. - Added the Mitey Titey, a new tool for placing decorative stalagmites and -tites. - Added the Portable Kiln, a new tool for placing decorative pots. - Added some memorabilia from the great Tree vs Axe War of 2023. - Added decorative Demon/Crimson Altars. - Added decorative Cobwebs. - Added Shimmerfall Blocks and Walls. - Added Magic Shimmer Dropper. - Added Pink and White Banners. - Added Heroicis' set. - Added CRT Monolith. - Added Retro Monolith. - Added Bikini, Swimsuit and Swimtrunks. - Added Lilac Dusk Vanity. - Added Hallowed Crown. - Added Welding Mask. - Added Chicken Bones’ and Kazzymodus’ developer armor sets. - Gave Skeletron a fancy new hat. - Added vanity set for Terraria Enthusiasts. - Added Luna’s Runic Pixie Vanity. - Added spectating of other players - either via the new Scrying Orb, or by haunting them after being slain! - Kites and critters can now be placed in the world as persistent background objects. You can place them from the hotbar by right-clicking. - Mannequins can now hold items and mounts, and pose with those items when hammered. - Rubblemaker can now place Abigail's Flower, Life Fruits, Jungle Rose, Nature's Gift, Jungle Spores, Glow Tulip, Fallen Logs (that do not attract fairies), Oasis Plants, Water Bolt, and the Terragrim. - Sandcastle Bucket, Garden Gnomes and Lawn Flamingoes now use the up/down keys to cycle through placement styles (like the Rubblemaker). - Items that can cycle through placement styles will now only do so if they’re the currently selected item. - Building items that consume materials (such as the Rubblemaker and the Paint Brush) now show how much material they have available on their hotbar item icon. - Paladin's shield now displays its range, and feedback when it is used. Getting killed by the Paladin’s Shield now displays a unique death message. - The Zombie Arm can now be held out, and throws complementary bits and pieces when swung. - The Paintball Gun now paints Slimes on hit. - Normal and biome torches can now be converted when placed. - Conveyor Belts can now carry items upwards. - When spawning NPCs on Conveyor Belts, the block directly below the belt is now used to determine which NPC to spawn. - Falling blocks (Sand, Silt, Slush, etc.) will no longer settle on Conveyor Belts but remain in their item form. - Bricks made from Hardmode ore are now immune to bombs. - Brown Solution now changes Old Stone Wall and Craggy Stone Walls into their unsafe variants. - Green Solution now turns safe Jungle Walls into their unsafe variants. - Demon Conch will now teleport players to the outer edges of the Underworld if there is no valid destination in the middle. It also no longer avoids teleporting you onto platforms. - Pets and minions can now walk through closed doors and tall gates. - Placed items that can be used to craft potions (e.g. Bottle, Pink Vase) can no longer be removed by interacting in order to support the new crafting menu filters (they can still be mined as normal). - The Whoopie Cushion can now be equipped. - Empty Buckets left out in the rain will now fill up. - The Beach Ball now bounces off of enemies and villagers. - Music Boxes now count as vanity. - Crystal Block now merges with Dirt. - Yoyo Counterweights will now override the visuals of the Yoyo Bag if placed in a vanity slot. - Grates with liquid in them can no longer be block swapped. - Grates with objects on them can now be properly destroyed by merging liquids. - Gelatin Crystal now glows in the dark. - Reef Chest now has a more appropriate map color. - All Living Fire blocks can now be sloped. - Radio Thing is now placeable. - Water Gun, Slime Gun, and Portal Gun can now be placed on weapon racks. - You can now attach furniture to Wooden Spikes if you feel so inclined. - Items in the world now stop reacting to fluids when being picked up. NPCs - Added Moss Zombie. - Added Pufferfish. - Added Orca. - Added a boss damage tracker that tracks how much damage each player deals during a boss fight. Type /bossdamage in the chat to view the result of the last fight(s). - Slimes can now contain more items. - Fish now change direction randomly when they flop on the floor. - The Martian Saucer is no longer listed as a boss in the Bestiary. - The Bestiary now properly reflects the incomprehensible nature of the Torch God. - Villagers now wait a minute to look for a new house after being evicted. World - Lightning strikes can now occur during storms. - Added new Dungeon entrance variants. - Cracked Dungeon Bricks now hint at their fragility. - You can now start a Slime Rain by shimmering a Slime Crown. - Trees are now converted to and from Palm Trees when using Yellow, Brown and White solution, rather than being destroyed. - Corruption and Crimson Grass can now infect Mowed Grass, turning it into normal Corrupt/Crimson grass. - Blooming Blinkroot is now brighter. - You can no longer attach items to boulders. Rubble and pressure plates will no longer generate on top of boulders. - Jungle Plants and Vines can now grow on Lihzahrd Brick. - Cactus, stalagmites/-tites, shells, coral, antlion larva, alchemy herbs and jungle plants now take on the paint and coating of the block they grow on. - Safe Underground Desert walls now stop you from being considered to be in the Underground Desert. - The Constant’s filter is now hidden when mixed with other world seeds. - Falling Stars are now considered as traps - they’re still friendly, though! - Liquid inside Bubbles is no longer cleared when leaving and rejoining a world. - The Aether biome visuals are now suppressed when in the Dungeon. - Boosted nature’s growth on the surface during rainy times. - Worlds now support up to 32,000 signs, up from 1,000. - Meteors now avoid Demon/Crimson Altars. - You can no longer stand on the bottom of the world. We suggest you don't try to, either. - World Globes can now assign the same forest biome to different parts of the world. - Improved how liquids merge during world gen, reducing the likelihood of out-of-place liquid patches (e.g. Honey in Granite biomes). - When two different liquids collide during world gen they now leave less of a mess. - Living Mahogany Tree chests now always contain Jungle loot. - Small and medium sand piles now generate in Underground Deserts. - Newly generated boulder traps now use actuators instead of Active Stone Blocks. - The max surface height of newly generated small worlds has been lowered to prevent sky enemies from spawning too close to the surface. - Microbiomes (e.g. Detonator traps) will no longer generate on top of boulder traps. - Living Mahogany Wands are now guaranteed in every world. Wiring & Mechanisms - When Chests receive a wire signal, they now pick up all nearby dropped items. Great for automated farms! - Extractinators now process items from nearby chests (up to two blocks away) when they receive a wire signal. - Timers can now be freely placed without requiring an anchor block. - Inactive Stone Blocks now share the same restrictions on actuating beneath protected blocks (e.g. Lihzahrd Altar, Mannequins) as actuators. - Inlet and Outlet Pump items are now immune to lava. Tooltips & Clarifications - Items that interact with wire now have a "Wireable" tooltip. Improved the tooltips of several of these items. - Items that can be extractinated now have a tooltip to indicate this. - Reworded the “No stats will be gained” tooltip on items in vanity slots. Vanity items no longer show this tooltip while in a vanity slot. - Clarified the Inlet and Outlet Pump's tooltips to make clear it can transport any liquid, not just water. - Bat Bat's tooltip now clarifies it always heals on hit rather than only sometimes. - Improved the consistency of some set bonus effect tooltips. - Clarified the Beetle Shell and Solar Flare armor tooltips (functionality unchanged). - Whips now show their use time in their tooltip. - Bubbles now have a tooltip to explain their function. - Actuators now have the "Can be placed" tooltip. - Removed "Can be placed" tooltip from wand-type items. - Blade staff now properly mentions that it ignores some enemy defense (functionality unchanged). - Added usage tooltips to grappling hooks. - Improved platform tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved bed tooltips with usage instructions. - Improved sawmill tooltip to clarify its purpose. - Clarified harmful blocks tooltips to mention their danger. - Clarified tooltips of minion slots granted by several sources. - Improved Solar Tablet tooltip. - Bug Net's tooltip now mentions it can catch bait. - Improved some personal storage items' tooltips. - Personal storage tooltips (e.g. Piggy Bank) now mention their stored coins can be used in shops. - Improved Gills Potion tooltip. - Improved Lavaproof Bug Net tooltip. - Improved immunizing accessories (e.g. Bezoar) tooltips. - Improved Discount Card tooltip. - Improved Sandstorm in a Balloon tooltip. - Improved Flame Waker's Boots tooltip. - Improved Sandcastle Bucket tooltip. - Cloud blocks & platforms now mention they prevent fall damage in their tooltip. - Improved Yellow Horseshoe Balloon tooltip. - Clarified Brain of Confusion tooltip. - Improved Sundial & Moondial tooltip. - Improved Planter Box tooltip. - The "not enough NPCs nearby" Pylon message now clarifies NPCs need to live near them, not just be near them. - Added flavor text to the Fertilizers. - Added flavor text to the Fruit Salad. Journey Mode - Trashing an item now automatically attempts to research it. - Researching items now also contributes to the research progress of your online team members. - Partially researched items now show up in the duplication menu (but can't be duplicated). - Duplicating an item now gives only one of that item if you don't need multiple (such as single-use upgrade items.) - Deerclops, Eye of Cthulu and Mech bosses no longer randomly spawn when the spawn rate slider is set to 0x. - The difficulty slider now more closely matches the scaling of Exper and Master worlds. Quality of Life - Items can now be crafted from nearby chests! This can be toggled on/off as desired. - Right-clicking a crafting station now opens the crafting menu, showing only the items that can be crafted at that station. - When the Goblin Tinkerer reforges an item and gets the best available prefix, a special effect plays and the reforge button is briefly blocked to prevent unintentional further reforges. - Individual armor set pieces now show the set bonus in their tooltip. - Pylons now take priority over Wormhole Potions when clicking on either to teleport on the map. - Almost every item in the game can now stack to 9999, including (prefixed) weapons and equipment. - Added a “Similar Stack to Nearby Chests” mode, which aside from default quick stack behaviour also tries to put items in chests with similar items (for example, putting Iron Ore with Copper Ore). You can toggle between quick stacking modes by right-clicking the Quick Stack button. - The housing query now gives visual feedback on the suitability of any queried space. - Houses no longer require at least one solid, non-platform block to be valid. - The housing query now indicates when a house is invalid because it does not have a spot to stand on. - When holding an equipable item in the cursor, usable equipment slots are now highlighted, and others are dimmed. - Greatly improved how the game handles too many items being on the ground: when the item cap is hit, items now try to stack with nearby items to make room. - Improved the sorting behaviour of many items. - Boss bags now appear on the minimap. - Mining boulders that you are standing on no longer damages you if the boulder has no space to roll. - When you try to switch to another hotbar slot while already using an item, you will now switch once the item finishes its current use rather than when you stop using the item. - Improved the indicator for the selected hotbar item when overriding the default selected item (e.g. when using smart select). - When trying to Quick Stack, there is now a visual indicator on chests that can’t be stacked to because they are in use by another player. - When assigning a spawn point at a bed fails, you'll now be provided the reason. - Minion buffs now show how many of that minion you have summoned. - When you respawn, any minions you had active when you were slain are now automatically resummoned. - If you are slain while holding an item in your cursor, the item will now be put back into your inventory, if possible. - Torches now have placement previews. - Block swapping a platform onto a sloped block will now clear the slope. - You will now automatically join your last team when (re)joining a world. - Improved Smart Cursor behaviour when placing platforms, and added an arrow visual to clarify the placement direction. - Hovering over a buff icon while using an item will no longer interrupt usage of said item. - Interacting with villagers and items while holding an item on the cursor no longer throws said item. - Equipment in vanity slots now shows its full tooltip text. - Quick swapping now supports vanity accessories. - You can now dismount a minecart by interacting with the track (dismount key still works as well). - Ropes can now pass through up to five passable blocks (such as Platforms and Minecart Tracks). - Ropes can now pass through Planter Boxes. You can now also block swap Rope with Planter Boxes if there's already a Planter Box adjacent to it, like you can with Platforms. - Extending a rope is no longer blocked by objects such as cobwebs and plants. - Eternia Crystals can now be used from the Void Bag. - If you are grappled to the ground, you will no longer jump by default when pressing jump. You will still jump if you're holding the Up input. - When you get hurt, you'll now hear your character's hurt sound, regardless of where the camera is. - Slain Hardcore player's ghosts now have their names displayed in multiplayer. - Right clicking any search bar now clears it, and clicking outside the search bar clears focus away from it. - Emote commands are no longer case sensitive. - Improved "Frame skip: Subtle" setting to reduce stuttering. - Servers now save the world when the last player leaves. - The map now more consistently updates when changes happen in remote sections of the world (e.g. plant growth). - Camera Mode screenshots now only capture blocks that are fully on screen, which fixes some visual issues. - Certain visual effects that previously did not appear in Camera Mode snapshots now do appear if the entire snapshotted area is also on screen. - Camera Mode captures can now capture the space sky and stars if the center of the capture is in space. - World maps from Mobile Terraria are now supported on PC Terraria. - You can now join your own servers via Join via Steam. - Added failsafes to prevent losing save files when failing to save to a full Steam cloud storage. - Making changes to folder-based resource packs while the game is running now immediately updates the content in-game. - Added recycle bin support for OSX and Linux. UI Changes - Greatly overhauled the crafting window, added a search bar and filter tabs. - Added a special Banner Menu. Whenever you gain a banner it is no longer placed directly into your inventory but stored in this menu, where you can retrieve it at will. This does not affect any previously earned banners. - The character creation menu now lets you choose the type and pitch of your hurt sound. This is also available through dressers. - Added outfit preview buttons to character creation. - The character creation menu now shows a confirmation prompt when trying to exit without saving. - The character creation menu's tab icons now have hover tooltips. - Various tips are now shown during character creation. - The world creation progress bar’s accuracy and messages have been improved. - When generating a world with a random evil, the progress bar is now neutral to avoid spoiling which evil is being generated. - Your players and worlds are now sorted by most recently used (favorites still come first), and any freshly generated world will appear at the top for ease of access. - Added marker icons for previously visited and newly generated worlds in the menu. - Quick trash settings can now be changed while in a world. - Improved Pylon overview in the map. - Shops now have a visual indicator showing how NPC happiness is affecting prices. - The Savings display now caps the amount of Platinum Coins to 999, to prevent overflows. - Coins in inventory now animate when gained and when spent. - The defense counter now has a tooltip showing how much damage it effectively blocks. Its appearance now changes based on world difficulty. - Homeless NPCs now have a Housing dialogue option instead of Happiness, containing instructions on how to build a suitable house. - Reordered the NPCs in the Housing menu so they now appear in their approximate unlock order. - Improved offscreen team member indicators on wide screens. - Overhead chat and multiplayer nameplates now also appear above the player in reverse gravity. - Added tooltips for the Team and PVP icons. - Faraway villagers will now move smoother on the minimap. - Players are now hidden from the world map while slain. - Map icons now match the map's transparency. - When renaming a character with the virtual keyboard, the original name is now prefilled. - The Packet Stacks menu (F8) now has an instruction on how to close it (we've all been there). - Added a new FPS diagnostics view, which can be toggled with F7. - The FPS display (F10) now also shows your UPS (Updates Per Second). - Added an error message for when the Host & Play server fails to start. - Added sounds when passing over most interface buttons. Gamepad Improvements - Added icons for Playstation and Nintendo Switch controllers. They can be toggled in the Keybind menu. - Using any ruler option on gamepad now allows the cursor to reach the entire screen. - If you are locked on to an enemy using a gamepad, the Rod of Discord/Harmony will now teleport you to your cursor rather than to said enemy. - Improved the housing menu's gamepad support. - Improved gamepad hints for the Journey menu and the Bestiary. - Improved the in-game settings menu accessibility for gamepad users. - Prioritized Drop and Transfer hints on gamepad when holding an item on the cursor. - Items crafted via Quick Craft now temporarily highlight their item slot. Art & Visuals - Added Villager Portraits! - Added sunrise and sunset visuals! - Added nighttime aurora effects to the Snow biome! - Added new backgrounds to various biomes. - Fish now visually appear in the water while you are fishing. - Added new ambient insects and falling rubble to the world. - The Barrel and Trash Can now have opening and closing animations. - The moon now properly obstructs stars behind it from view. - Polished Moon Lord. - Polished many banner sprites. - Polished the existing pot sprites, and added a few new variants. - Polished Lihzahrd Temple content. - Polished the Demon Altar, Crimson Altar, Shadow Orb and Crimson Heart (both the background item and the light pet) art. - Polished Trophies and Weapon Racks. - Polished Bars, Bar Stools and Banquet Tables. - Polished Hanging Skeletons and Catacombs. - Polished Hornets. - Polished Ancient Manipulator. - Polished Fire Imp, Imp Staff and Imp minion. - Polished Baby Slime minion. - Polished Alchemy Table, Imbuing Station and Bewitching Table. - Polished the various Cloud blocks and walls. - Polished spider stalactites. - Polished sand piles. - Polished Sea Horse cage. - Polished Fairy Log. - Polished Drill Containment Unit buff icon. - Polished Jim's developer set. - Updated some of the credits scenes art. - Updated Chlorophyte Dye's glowmask. - Updated the Blood & Gore dust filter to be more accurate. - Painted Mushroom furniture lighting now matches the paint's color. - Shroomite Plating Wall lighting now matches the paint's color. - Improved Influx Waver projectile’s visual animation. - Improved the Step Stool animation. - Equipping the Ghost Shirt will now show the player bare legged. - Spectre Pants and Cenx's Dress Pants no longer draw shoes underneath, like other robe-bottom pants. - Added mining dust to (Large) Bamboo Blocks. Audio - Added new boss music for King Slime, Eater of Worlds, Queen Bee, Skeletron, the Twins, the Destroyer, Skeletron Prime and the Lunatic Cultist. - Adjusted the Eater of Worlds' digging sound. - Updated thunder sound effects. - Added a sound effect for when the player is starving on The Constant worlds. - Improved sound for item trashing. - Sonar Potions now play a sound cue when you hook a fish. - Added audio feedback to several buttons in the inventory. - Added new sounds for drills and chainsaws. - Added a new sound for Lilith's Necklace. - Added a splash sound when catching a fish. - Reduced the loudness of the Flameburst Tower. - Added a fuse sound to bombs. - Added a reel sound to kites. - Added a new sound for the Flintlock Pistol and Musket. - Added a new sound for the Leaf Blower. - Added a new sound for the Unicorn on a Stick. - All sounds now pan/attenuate consistently regardless of game resolution. - Added a configuration option ("TitleMusic") that allows you to choose which music to play on the main menu: "Current" (Journey's End), - "Old" (original), "Console" or "Random". Localization - Added Japanese, Korean and Traditional Chinese localization. - Implemented a great deal of community contributed suggestions and improvements to our German, Spanish, French, Polish, Brazilian - Portuguese, Russian and Simplified Chinese localizations! - Improved localizations to support variants for composite content, like prefixes. - You can now use English chat commands regardless of what language Terraria is set to. - Renamed Heavy Work Bench to Heavy Assembler, as it does not function as a Work Bench. - Renamed Crimson Bunny Kite to Vicious Bunny Kite to match the NPC. - Renamed Martian Brainscrambler Banner to Martian Brain Scrambler Banner to match the NPC. - Renamed Meteor Toilet to Meteorite Toilet for consistency with Meteorite furniture. Performance/Modding - Improved performance around many parts of Terraria. Most notably around trying to achieve frame rendering stability, and reducing small freezes. - Folder based resource packs are now hot-reloadable. Changing most content in the folder will make Terraria attempt to reload it instantly! This should dramatically help iterating on localizations/art changes quickly! - Introduced several new systems to replace previously hard-coded logic. (e.g. Wings, Armor sets, Fishing, Horizons, NPC chat commands, and more have been made easier to check and modify/replace). - Included a new interactive world gen debugging tool (available through modding), and improved world generation’s determinism and consistency. - Included a suite of internal dev commands for modded use (available through modding). These are primarily aimed at debugging content in different situations, such as multiplayer. Balance Changes Global Mechanics - General - Fixed an issue that caused certain weapon projectiles that perform multiple updates per frames to have a lower hit cooldown than intended. In practice, the DPS of almost all of these weapons is unaffected by this change, with the exception of the Deadly Sphere Staff: its damage has been increased to compensate (overall DPS remains the same). Melee Weapons Bone Sword & Bone Pickaxe - Now launches a bone projectile when striking an enemy. Bat Bat - Attack speed increased by 12.5%. Gladius - Can now only have spear-type modifiers. - Attack speed increased by ~17%. Phaseblades, Phasesabers & Keybrand - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. The weapon will embed itself in the ground and will continuously damage any enemy that touches it. Can be recalled by pressing the attack button again. Purple Clubberfish - Now has a 50% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. Storm Spear - Range increased by 66.67%. - Bolt damage increased from 150% of weapon damage to 160%. Mandible Blade - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Attack speed increased by ~13%. - Now has 7% critical strike chance. Stylish Scissors - Can now be thrown by releasing the attack button mid-swing. - Can now be autoswung. - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. - Attack speed reduced by ~8%. Ale Tosser - Is now a melee weapon. - Now deals damage in an area. - Damage increased from 20 to 32. - Attack speed increased by 20%. - Projectile speed increased by ~70%. - Knockback reduced by ~43%. - Now has a 5% chance to inflict the Confused debuff on enemies. - Now inflicts the Tipsy debuffs on players and villagers. - Now has a ~70% chance to not consume Ale on use. - Sell price increased from 1 Silver to 25 Silver. Falcon Blade, Exotic Scimitar & Cutlass - Striking an enemy now briefly increases the weapon’s damage by 12% to a maximum of 50%. This extra damage decays at a rate of 30% per second. Bee Keeper - Confused debuff chance increased from 90% to 100%. Starfury - Stars that spawn when the cursor is on or directly above/below the player now have their direction randomised rather than always falling to the direction the player is facing. Blue Moon & Sun Fury - Synergy increased by 100%. Volcano - The explosion on hit now uses local immunity rather than global immunity. In practical terms, this means a struck enemy can now be damaged by both the explosion and attacks from minions and sentries at the same time. Bloody Machete - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. Hel-Fire - Damage reduced from 41 to 39. - Range increased by 20%. Chik - Velocity decreased by ~12%. Format:C - Lifetime increased from 8 seconds to 16 seconds. - Velocity increased by ~13%. Gradient - Lifetime increased from 10 seconds to 30 seconds. Classy Cane - Damage increased from 16 to 40. - Can now strike villagers, dealing 1 damage. - Hitting an enemy or villager will cause them to drop a small amount of copper coins. - Sell price increased from 50 Silver to 2 Gold. Anchor - Now creates an explosion upon hitting solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. - Now pierces enemies. Obsidian Swordfish - Now spews 1 to 3 fire projectiles when thrust. Beam Sword - The beam projectile can now penetrate once, and bounce up to 3 times. Shadowflame Knife - Damage increased from 38 to 43. Chlorophyte Claymore - The orb projectile is now reflected by Shimmer. Paladin’s Hammer - Tapping the attack button now throws the Paladin Hammer out much farther (it can be recalled in flight by pressing the attack button again). - Now creates an explosion that damages nearby enemies upon hitting a solid block. - Now applies the Broken Armor debuff, reducing defense by 20. - Damage increased from 90 to 100. Possessed Hatchet - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. Golem Fist - Now creates an explosion upon hitting enemies or solid blocks that damages nearby enemies. - Now has a 33% chance to inflict the Confused debuff. Sky Dragon’s Fury - Fixed the alternate fire projectiles being considered ranged projectiles. They now use the player’s melee critical strike chance rather than the ranged critical strike chance, and can inflict debuffs from Flasks and the Magma Stone. Flairon - Now has an alternate weapon mode in which it behaves like a flail. You can freely switch between modes by right-clicking the item. The original version has been renamed to Flairoon. - Bubbles from both modes now bounce once. - Bubbles from both modes can now apply the on-hit effects from Flasks, the Frost armor set and the Magma Stone. Ranged Weapons Ammunition - Shroomite Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. - Several weapons that would be too strongly affected by this change have been adjusted to compensate: - Piranha Gun: damage increased from 38 to 40. - Elf Melter: damage increased from 53 to 57. - Sniper Rifle: damage increased from 185 to 200. - Aerial Bane: damage decreased from 39 to 38. - Magic Quiver now applies its damage bonus to arrows as well as bows. - Fixed an issue that would cause weapons that use non-standard ammo (e.g. gel) to deal 1 less damage than intended. This affects the following weapons: Star Shooter, Super Star Shooter, Sandgun, Flamethrower, and Elf Melter. Spiky Ball - Lifetime increased by ~33%. - Can now be auto-reused. Harpoon - The harpoon can now be retracted by letting go of the attack button. - Can now penetrate up two enemies before retracting (upon hitting the third). - Now inflicts Bleed, dealing 12 damage per second. - Projectile speed increased by ~36%. Musket - Critical strike chance increased from 7% to 8%. Flintlock Pistol - Now has a 6% critical strike chance. - Projectile speed increased by 20%. Revolver - Firing the Revolver just as it comes off cooldown now gradually increases its attack speed (up to 100%) and critical strike chance (up to 20%). Does not work with autofire. - Base critical strike chance removed (was 5%). - Knockback increased by 12.5%. - Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. Hellwing Bow - Fixed Hellwing Bow being much more inaccurate than intended when not using Wooden Arrows. Cursed Dart - Main projectile now pierces up to one enemy. Cursed fire no longer pierces. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Ichor Dart - Damage reduced from 10 to 7. - Now display a visual effect when splitting. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Crystal Dart - Max bounces/penetrations reduced from 6 to 4. - Damage is now reduced by 15% on every terrain bounce. - Dart now instantly rotates when bouncing. - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Flamethrower & Elf Melter - Can now be used while submerged in lava. Tactical Shotgun - Damage increased from 29 to 36. Piranha Gun - Now inflicts Hemorrhage, dealing 100 damage per second. - Will now re-fire Piranhas that have returned to the player as long as the attack button is held. Nano Bullet - Now inflict their debuff in PvP. Eventide & Tsunami - Will now ensure their arrows do not spawn inside blocks and be immediately destroyed when firing parallel to the ground. Candy Corn Rifle - Damage increased from 44 to 60. - Candy corns now use local immunity frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by multiple candy corns (and other sources of damage) at the same time. - Lifetime reduced from 10 seconds to 5 seconds. Jack ‘O Lantern Launcher - Damage increased from 65 to 85. Chain Gun - Damage increased from 31 to 38. - Chance to save ammo increased from 50% to ~67%. Magic Weapons Thunder Zapper - Mana cost reduced from 7 to 6. Space Gun - Damage increased from 17 to 20. - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage and penetrate more enemies with distance. Aqua Scepter & Water Bolt - Now react appropriately to lava. Flamelash & Flower of Fire - Can now be used while submerged in lava. Laser Rifle - Projectiles now grow larger, deal more damage and penetrate more enemies with distance. - Now has no mana cost when the Meteor Set is equipped. Magic Dagger - Now pierces up to 2 enemies, up from 1. - Damage reduced from 35 to 30. Sky Fracture - Projectile speed increased by 25%. Crystal Storm - Damage increased from 32 to 35. Crystal Serpent - Initial projectile speed increased by ~31%. Flower of Frost - Now bounces on platforms. Magical Harp - Increased maximum note speed by ~50%, and reduced minimum note speed by ~60%. Summon Weapons All Summon Weapons - Added new Summon prefixes! - Mana costs have been removed. - Any existing summoning weapon with a mana cost reducing prefix (e.g. Mythical) will receive a random new prefix upon loading the world. Flinx Staff - Recipe cost increased from 6 Flinx Fur to 10 Flinx Fur. Spider Staff & Queen Spider Staff - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Abigail’s Flower - Now has knockback when attacking. Blade Staff - Removed 25% tag damage penalty. Deadly Sphere Staff - Damage increased from 40 to 55 (DPS unchanged, see Global Mechanics section for explanation). All Whips - Different whip tags can no longer stack with one another. Hitting an enemy with a whip now clears the effect of any other whip that is active. - Whips now use varying arcs when swung. Spinal Tap - Damage increased from 27 to 29. Morning Star - Damage reduced from 165 to 160. - Tag critical strike chance reduced from 12% to 10%. Dark Harvest - Damage increased from 100 to 110. - Tag effect damage increased from 10 to 15. Kaleidoscope - Damage reduced from 180 to 170. - Multihit penalty increased from 10% to 20%. Equipment Dead Man’s Sweater - Now grants 4 defense. - Now reduces trap damage by 50%, and caps it at 300. - Now reduces trap debuff duration by 50%. Gladiator Armor - Armor pieces now have a shimmer loop. Meteor Armor - Now also removes the mana cost of the Laser Rifle. Molten Armor - Now grants immunity to burning blocks. Spider Armor - Now requires a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Shroomite Armor - Helmets now apply their damage bonus to ammo as well as weapons. To compensate for the increase in overall damage, their damage bonus has been reduced from 15% to 12%. Overall, this slightly buffs most ranged weapons. Magic Quiver - Now applies its damage bonus to arrows as well as bows. Yoyo Counterweights - Damage increased from 80% of yoyo damage to 100%. Velocity increased by 100%. Yoyo String - Now increases max yoyo lifetime by 50%. Spore Sac - Spores now use static immunity frames, meaning that a single enemy can now be damaged by spores and other sources of damage at the same time (but not multiple spores). Paladin’s Shield - Now has a visual effect that allows both the wearer and other players to see if they are near or in range. - No longer triggers when allies take damage from non-enemy hazards. - No longer triggers on instant kill effects (e.g Dungeon Guardian). - Self damage can no longer be dodged. - Self damage no longer generates immunity frames. - Will now only proc every 0.67 seconds. Honeycomb, Brain of Confusion & Solar Flare Armor set - No longer trigger when taking damage from non-enemy hazards. Discount Card - Now also applies to the Nurse’s healing service and the Stylist’s hairstyle shop. Info Accessories - Now functional while in vanity slots. Mounts - Can now fully negate fall damage, rather than only reduce it to 1. Slimy Saddle (Slime Mount) - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 10 blocks. Pogo Stick - Now extends the distance you can fall without taking damage by 20 blocks. Superheated Blood (Lava Shark) - Now grants immunity to burning blocks. - Now grants lava vision and increased jump height when swimming in lava. - Water walking is now disabled while mounted. Ancient Horn (Basilisk) - Fixed the Basilisk’s innate double jump being overridden by double jump accessories (e.g. Cloud in a Bottle). They now stack as intended. Mole Minecart - Can now dig falling blocks such as Sand, Silt and Slush. Bosses, Invasions, & Events General - You can now use Pylons during boss fights and invasions. - Shimmer invincibility no longer applies to bosses, invasion enemies or the Torch God. You cannot hide! King Slime & Queen Slime - Can now teleport to platforms. Eye of Cthulhu - Now also drops Unholy Arrows on Crimson worlds. Deerclops - You can now dash through Deerclops’ legs using a Shield of Cthulhu or Solar armor (previously you would collide with it). - Fixed Shadow Hands appearing on top of non-targeted players in multiplayer. Skeletron - Hand movement when slamming is now a bit smarter, avoiding an issue that caused it to fly off-screen. - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. Skeletron Prime - Can no longer be dodged by accessories when enraged during daytime. Duke Fishron - Fixed Duke Fishron transitioning too quickly from its final ram attack to the Cthulunado/Bubble Circle in phase 2 (does not affect Expert+ difficulty). Pirate Deadeye - Firing rate reduced by 25%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~30%. - Firing range reduced by ~10%. - Accuracy slightly decreased. Pirate Crossbower - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow speed reduced by 12.5%. - Arrow damage reduced from 80 to 70. - Firing range reduced by ~20%. Pirate Captain - Firing rate reduced by 12.5%. - Bullet speed reduced by ~20%. - Bullet accuracy decreased. - Cannonball charge time increased from 1 second to 3 seconds. - Interrupting the Pirate Captain while he is charging his cannonball attack now reduces the charge time by 0.33 seconds, to a minimum of 1 second. Once he fires a cannonball, the charge time will reset back to 3 seconds. - Cannonball speed increased by ~40%. Flying Dutchman & Martian Saucer - Expert+ health scaling reduced from 100% of base health to 85%. Enemies & Critters Conveyor Belt interactions - Critters, regular Mimics, Lost Girls, Slimes, Gnomes and Bound NPCs are now affected by Conveyor Belts. - Antlions can now spit Sand while on Conveyor Belts. Buggy, Sluggy & Grubby - Spawn chance from Jungle plants reduced by 25%. Meteor Head - Can now drop items in Hardmode again, but can not drop Souls or Biome Keys. Rainbow Slime - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. Now more likely to spawn for lucky players. Rock Golem - Spawn chance increased by ~17%. - Golem Head drop chance increased from 10% to ~33.33%. Shark - Now has a 80% higher chance to spawn if there’s chum in the water. Shimmer Slime - Now drop Gel. Spiked Ice Slime - Can now spawn on Ice and Snow blocks outside of the Snow biome. Tomb Crawler & Dune Splicer - Spawn chance reduced by ~25%. Toxic Sludge - Spawn chance reduced by ~33%. Water Striders - Can now tolerate slightly windier conditions. Villagers General - Can now arrive even when there are no available houses. Only one will arrive per day, and they will leave if they do not have a house by nightfall. - Villagers now take priority over Town Pets when respawning. - Can now attack enemies while talking to players. - Defeating a boss now also gives each villager a 1.5% attack speed bonus. - Now also gain stat bonuses from defeating King Slime, Deerclops and Duke Fishron. - Will now avoid Stinky players. Guide - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health regeneration by 500%. - Increased arrow damage from 8 to 12. Dryad - Dryad’s Ward defense bonus to other villagers increased from 6 to 10 in Classic difficulty, 10 to 15 in Expert and 14 to 20 in Master. - Defeating Queen Slime, Duke Fishron and Empress of Light now boost the damage of Dryad's Ward by 15% each (same as other Hardmode bosses). Party Girl - Villager count requirement to move in increased from 14 to 20, to account for Town Pets & Slimes. Cyborg - Increased defense from 15 to 30. - Increased health from 250 to 500. - Increased health regeneration by 900%. - Increased attack rate by 200%. - Increased knockback resistance from 50% to 75%. World Tombstones, Ghosts & Graveyards - Tombstones can now be broken three times as fast (no change on For The Worthy worlds). Ghost spawn chance from breaking a Tombstone reduced from 50% in all difficulties to 12.5% in Classic and 25% in Expert (Master unchanged). - Ghosts that spawn from broken Tombstones now only care about their initial target. Once said target is slain, they will attempt to flee. - Ghosts no longer pick up money on Expert+ difficulty. - The Peace Candle now reduces the boosted spawn rates of Graveyard biomes by 33%. Other - Newly generated Mythril, Orichalcum, Adamantite and Titanium ore patches are now the same size as Cobalt and Palladium patches. - Windy days and Rain now only occur when there is a player in the world with at least one Life Crystal consumed. - Rain is now less obscuring while a boss fight or event is ongoing. Tools & Utility General - You can now blockswap blocks that are touching lava. Grappling Hooks - All multi-hook grappling hooks can now have multiple hooks in flight, rather than just one. - When jumping from a grapple, you now jump the full height rather than half. Skeletron Hand - Velocity and range increased by ~7%. Axes - Axes with higher axe power now have a higher chance to get extra wood when cutting trees. Golden Bug Net, Lavaproof Bug Net & Lawnmower - Can now cut large Jungle plants. Staff of Regrowth - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it’s held. Axe of Regrowth - Axe power reduced from 150% to 125%. - Now automatically replant harvested herbs. - Now only yields extra seeds and herbs from mature herbs if used to harvest them, rather than as long as it’s held. Chlorophyte Extractinator - Now only drops Hardmode ores when in Hardmode. Water Gun - Now douses torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Wet debuff now gives immunity to On Fire!, Hellfire and Burning debuffs. Slime Gun - Now ignites torches, campfires, and most other light sources. - Slimed debuff now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite and Shadowflame debuffs. - Slimed debuff duration reduced from 25 seconds to 3 seconds. Purification Powder - Now has a slightly bigger area of effect. - Now converts walls, and also purifies Hallow blocks and walls. Vile Powder & Vicious Powder - Now have a slightly bigger area of effect. Wiring & Mechanisms - Venom Dart Traps now require a Mythril Anvil to craft. - Cannons are now fired by using torches rather than ammo. They can also be fired using a wire signal (cooldown is shared between cannons). Cannonballs are now a decorative item. - Snowballs fired by a wired Snowball Cannon now deal damage. It shares its fire cooldown with the cannons. - Lihzahrd Flame Traps now inflict the Hellfire debuff. Fishing - Using all three lava fishing enablers (Hotline Fishing Hook, Lavaproof Fishing Hook, lava critter bait) will now give you an additional bonus when fishing in lava. - You can now gain the Fishing Power bonus of sitting from any chair, not just toilets. Buffs & Consumables Kites - Flying a kite now grants the High Spirits buff, increasing movement speed, mining speed, placement speed and luck. - Kites are now automatically deployed when AFKing for more than 3 minutes. Invisibility - No longer makes you fully invisible on your own client, so you can better see what you are doing (you are still fully invisible to other players). - Getting hit while invisible now reduces the remaining buff time by 1 minute rather than removing it outright. Tipsy - Now reduces the time to answer a call of nature by 75%. - Now can also affect villagers (via the Ale Tosser), granting a 10% damage, defense and attack speed boost. Stinky (Stink Potion) - Now reduces your luck. - Can now be removed by water. Lovestruck (Love Potion) - Now increases Villager happiness by 10%. Wet (Water Gun) - Now gives immunity to On Fire!, Hellfire and Burning debuffs. Slimed (Slime Gun) - Now doubles damage from On Fire!, Hellfire, Cursed Inferno, Frostburn, Frostbite and Shadowflame debuffs. Pumpkin Pie - Now grants Well Fed (tier 1) instead of Plenty Satisfied (tier 2). Duration unchanged. Recipe cost increased from 10 Pumpkins to 15. Bottled Water - Healing increased from 20 to 30. - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 45 seconds. Eggnog - Potion Sickness duration decreased from 60 seconds to 40 seconds. - Now resets the player’s hunger in The Constant worlds. Sharpening Station - Buff now only applies to melee items and projectiles as intended. Advanced Combat Techniques & Advanced Combat Techniques: Volume 2 - Defense bonus increased from 6 to 8. - Damage bonus increased from 20% to 25%. - Now increases villager health by 250 each. - Now grants a 20% attack speed bonus (stacks multiplicatively). Drop & Obtainment Changes Pigronata - No longer drops Bacon. Compass - Drop chance from Mother Slime, Snow Flinx, Undead Viking and Armored Viking reduced from 2% to 1%. Depth Meter - Drop chance from bat enemies reduced from 1% to 0.5%. Rally - Drop chance from Salamanders, Crawdads and Shellies increased from 4% to 6.67%. Bat Bat - Drop chance from all bats reduced from 0.4% to 0.33%. Snowball Launcher - Drop chance from Snow Flinxes increased from 2% to 4%. Ale Tosser - Drop chance from the Tavernkeep reduced from 16.67% to 12.5%. Advanced Combat Techniques - Drop chance from fishing increased by ~33%. Bewitching Table - Now available as a drop when fishing in the Dungeon. Potion of Return - Can now also drop from pots in the Cavern layer. Terragrim - Drop chance from Enchanted Sword Shrines increased from 2% to 3.33%. Golem Head - Drop chance from Rock Golems increased from 10% to ~33.33%. Lamia Set - Now drops from both Lamia variants at the same rate (2.5%). Prismatic Dye - Now drops from the Empress of Light in a stack of 3, up from 1. War Table & War Table Banner - Now drop from Ogres. Slime Staff - Now has a ~3.33% chance to be dropped by King Slime. Dungeon Brick - Can now be crafted at a Heavy Assembler (the crafting station formerly known as Heavy Workbench) in Graveyards. Lihzahrd Furnace - Now also sold by the Steampunker in the Jungle after Golem has been defeated. Lihzahrd Work Bench - Can now be crafted at Lihzahrd Furnaces from 10 Lihzahrd Bricks. Pearls - Pink Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 1.33% to 2.5%. - Black Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 6.22% to 7.5%. - White Pearl drop chance from Oyster increased from 12.44% to 15%. Obsidian Crate & Hellstone Crate - Replaced the ore and bar drops by Hellstone and Hellstone Bars respectively. - Now have a 5% chance to contain Hellforges. Dungeon Crate & Stockade Crate - Now have a 50% chance to contain Dungeon Bricks. Paintings - Biome Fishing Crates now have a chance to contain paintings from their biomes. Deer Thing - Now replaces Suspicious Looking Eyes in Ice Chests. Recipe Changes Watches, Goggles & Sunglasses - Now crafted at a Work Bench rather than chairs with tables (these are no longer used for any crafting). All Loom Recipes - Can now also be crafted at Living Looms. All Water Recipes - Can now also be crafted at Fountains. Phaseblades - Now require 15 gems to craft, up from 10. Endless Quiver & Endless Musket Pouch - Recipe cost increased from 3996 Wooden Arrows/Musket Balls to 9999. Unholy Arrow - 1 Worm Tooth now makes 20 Arrows (up from 5), and 1 Vertebrae now makes 10 (up from 5). Wooden Arrow cost increased to match. Poison Dart - Now requires an Anvil to craft. Cursed Dart, Ichor Dart & Crystal Dart - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Spider Armor, Spider Staff & Queen Spider Staff - Now require a Mythril/Orichalcum Anvil to craft. Mushroom Torch - Can now also be crafted using Glowing Mushrooms and Gel. Golden Delight - Can now also be crafted from Golden Carp. Cooked Bird - Can now also be crafted from Owl. Furnace - Can now also be crafted from Ebonstone, Crimstone and Pearlstone. Stink Potion - Recipe now crafts 2 Stink Potions, up from 1. Shop & Price Changes Pylons - Now sold by villagers regardless of how happy they are (there do still need at least 2 other villagers in their vicinity). Gray Zapinator - Now also available from the Traveling Merchant when King Slime or Deerclops have been defeated. Katana - Buy price reduced from 10 Gold to 5 Gold. Revolver - Buy price increased from 10 Gold to 15 Gold. Birdie Rattle - Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 50 Gold. Bamboo Leaf - Buy price reduced from 1 Platinum to 75 Gold. Leather Whip - Now sold by the Zoologist at 3% Bestiary completion, down from 10%. Squirrel Hook - Now has a 10% Bestiary completion requirement to buy from the Zoologist. Mole Minecart - Now sold by the Zoologist at 25% Bestiary completion, down from 35%. Planter Boxes - The Dryad now sells all of the Planter Boxes without any boss requirements. Potted Forest & Jungle Trees - Now sold by the Dryad in pre-Hardmode (the Hallowed trees still have a Hardmode requirement). Rubblemaker - Now sold by the Goblin Tinkerer in pre-Hardmode. Ale Tosser - Sell price increased from 1 Silver to 25 Silver. Classy Cane - Sell price increased from 50 Silver to 2 Gold. Magma Skull - Sell price increased from 2 Gold 50 Silver to 7 Gold 50 Silver to match the Molten Charm. Molten Skull Rose - Sell price increased from 5 Gold to 9 Gold. Living Loom - No longer sold by Steampunker. - Sell price reduced from 2 Gold to 40 Copper. Spectre Goggles - Now also sold by the Mechanic in Graveyards. Echo Coating - Now also sold by the Painter in Graveyards if the Mechanic is present in the world. Special Seeds Not The Bees! - Reduced the amount of Larvae placed during world generation. - Gem blocks are no longer replaced with Crispy Honey during world generation. For The Worthy - The passive mining boost now also applies when using block swap. Don’t Dig Up - Pre-Hardmode Mimics now have a 5% chance to drop Flare Guns and Extractinators. - Katana and Keybrand are no longer swapped in progression. - Depth-based quest fish are now easier to catch. - Ocean Biome Crates are now less common, allowing a more balanced distribution of the other Biome Crates. Bug Fixes Crashes & Major Issues - Fixed several multiplayer crashes involving furniture. - Fixed a rare crash when placing torches in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare magical crash involving Unicorns in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash involving painted cacti and the minimap. - Fixed a rare multiplayer crash involving animated trails. - Fixed some crashes involving sounds. - Fixed a rare crash involving snails. Yes, snails. - Fixed a multiplayer crash involving faraway villagers. - Fixed a Pylons multiplayer crash. - Fixed a freeze caused by spawning NPCs when most of the world has been wiped of blocks. - Fixed a lighting crash caused by running the game at a very high resolution. - Fixed crash involving Enchanted Sword Shrines. - Fixed a few crashes related to display modes. - Fixed a server crash caused by loading a world of a newer version than the server. - Fixed a crash involving the Flying Dutchman in multiplayer. - Fixed a crash caused by leaving a multiplayer world and joining a singleplayer world. - Fixed crashes involving emotes. - Fixed a crash caused by resizing the window while waiting for Host & Play to start. - Fixed a crash on iOS when toggling Fullscreen. - Fixed crash involving Dressers and merging liquids. - Fixed the -join launch parameter reverting all player files to their backups when launching the game. Player - Fixed spawning code not clearing spawn properly. - Fixed cases where respawning would consider passthrough blocks as solid. - Fixed some projectiles not applying their debuffs in PVP. - Fixed PvP debuffs scaling with difficulty. - Fixed Journey Mode's Pickup power ignoring Pickup speed boosts. - Fixed the Slimed debuff not showing its duration. - Fixed being unable to pick up a dead player's items if they haven't respawned yet. - Fixed a bug where quick buff could consume non-consumable items if used when you have no buff items in your inventory. - Fixed quick mounting a minecart track always grappling the track even if there are solid blocks in the way. - Fixed some mismatches between Torch God's Favor and the current biome detection. - Fixed minecarts having a smaller hitbox when traveling in liquid. - Fixed Hardcore player ghosts contributing to enemy health scaling in Expert+ difficulty. - Fixed information accessories still showing their info on Hardcore player ghosts. - Fixed block swap's speed not matching the player's best pickaxe. - Fixed certain buffs not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed grappling hooks not being synced properly when joining a server. - Fixed certain debuffs being removable via right click. - Fixed the Lucky Break achievement not being granted if you are Stoned. - Fixed the Matching Attire achievement not unlocking when quick-equipping vanity. - Fixed Smart Cursor placing Palm Trees too close together. - Smart cursor now properly reacts to changes in item placement range when placing blocks and walls. - Torches are now properly placable on platforms when Smart Cursor is on. - Fixed Smart Cursor not targeting the blocks directly below the player when mining if the cursor is close to the player's feet. - Biome calculations are now based on the position of the player rather than the position of the camera. This means that using Binoculars or Scopes no longer changes the player’s biomes. Items - Fixed the Magic Conch not always teleporting you onto solid ground. - Fixed the Staff/Axe of Regrowth breaking Flowering Vines. - Fixed Battle Potion and Mechanical Worm returning Crimson materials when shimmered on Corrupt worlds. - Fixed Chest Locks being usable on Dressers. - Fixed Spectre Paint Brush and Roller being usable when there is no paint in the inventory. - Fixed the Presserator placing actuators in empty blocks when placing certain objects over existing objects (e.g. Antlion Egg). - Fixed Queen Spider sentry's eggs and baby spiders not being able to fall through platforms. - Fixed certain cases of Paladin's shield overdealing and underdealing damage. - Fixed the Paladin's Shield deflecting instant kill damage from the Dungeon Guardian, Skeletron and Skeletron Prime. - Paladin's Shield buff can no longer be cleared by right-clicking. - Fixed the Zapinator's tooltip still showing a mana cost in its tooltip when using Meteor Armor. - Fixed Water Candles not being holdable underwater, despite being placeable underwater. - Fixed Gas Traps not working in singleplayer when autopause is on. - Fixed the Vampire Knives, Scourge of the Corruptor and Shadowflame Knife firing inaccurately at high melee speeds. - Fixed Binoculars being able to see further than intended on high resolutions. - Fixed Wormhole Potion not teleporting you to the right position if both you and the target are mounted. - Fixed the Robbing the Grave achievement not being triggered by the Shadow Jousting Lance. - Fixed extremely rare cases of items staying in the inventory despite having a stack size of 0. - Fixed Life Drain and Resonance Scepter's knockback in PvP. - Improved the reliability of certain quick projectiles, like the Heat Ray. - Fixed Stellar Tune's having a limited range on gamepad. - Fixed Stellar Tune's "no line of sight" damage penalty not applying to PvP. - Fixed Brown Solution converting certain stone walls to dirt walls. - Fixed Green Solution converting jungle walls to stone walls. - Fixed Drills, Chainsaws and the Chlorophyte Jackhammer being one tick slower than they should be. - Fixed the Spider Staff’s spider minions sometimes getting locked up during movement. - Fixed Temple Keys being consumed from every inventory the player has instead of just once, when attempting to unlock the Temple Door. - Fixed Teleporters sometimes failing their initial use in multiplayer. - Fixed items from Fishing Crates, Treasure Bags and Presents never having prefixes. - Fixed Shield of Cthulhu's first dash after joining a world not hitting anything. - You can no longer blow up the Snake Charmer's Flute's snake. You monster. - Fixed items getting stuck in weird states after being thrown into certain Shimmer pools. - Fixed releasing critters in reverse gravity not releasing them at the cursor. - Fixed jousting lances having an asymmetrical hitbox when attacking. - Fixed Vortex Beater, Phantasm, Phantom Phoenix and Celebration MK2 dealing contact damage. - Improved Portal Gun teleportation stability in multiplayer. - Trash items are no longer immune to lava. - Fixed Water Gun projectiles being destroyed when getting near water. - Fixed the Shiny Red Balloon & tinkers sometimes reducing total jump height, for example when in water. - Fixed Hive Pack's Giant Bees being instantly slain by Shimmer. - Fixed boomerang weapons getting locked out when thrown off the edges of the world. - Clinger Staff is now properly usable on top of Planter Boxes. - Fixed Red's armor and the Fairy Bell rarely allowing you to have two fairies at once. - Fixed flails breaking at high melee speed. - Fixed rapidly switching between projectile firing weapons (e.g. Starfury) allowing you fire more projectiles than intended. - Fixed certain mounts being slowed by certain accessories. - Fixed Purification Powder converting mowed grass into unmowed grass. - Fixed synchronization of the Charged Blaster Cannon in multiplayer. - Fixed being able to sell back items purchased with Defender Emblems for their full buy price in coins. - Fixed synchronization issues involving Fairy Glowsticks. - Fixed an issue with the Dirtiest Dirt's behavior. - Fixed rare cases where Yoyo Counterweights would fail to appear. - Fixed the Archery Potion’s damage bonus not being reflected in the damage tooltips of arrows. Bosses, Invasions & Events - Fixed some inconsistencies between loot dropped directly by bosses in Classic difficulty and loot obtained from Treasure Bags in Expert+. - Fixed invasions not being properly synced in multiplayer. - Fixed boss minimap icons not animating smoothly when far away. - Fixed cases where two Eye of Cthulhus would appear at once. You were definitely just seeing twice. - Fixed the Eater of Worlds not being considered a "danger" for certain mechanics such as the Pylon Network despite being the literal Eater of Worlds! - Fixed an issue where Deerclops could get stuck into an infinite falling loop when teleporting. - Deerclops' Shadow Hands now avoid spawning on all players, rather than just the primary target. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Laser not firing properly. - Fixed Skeletron Prime's Bomb explosions appearing in the wrong position in multiplayer. - Fixed Empress of Light's Ethereal Lances sometimes not spawning in the correct position. - Fixed enraged Empress of Light's contact damage being dodgeable on Don’t Dig Up worlds under certain circumstances. - Fixed spooky cases of the Pumpking disappearing in the middle of the fight, never to return. - Fixed Flocko and Krampus not being counted as part of the Frost Moon. - Fixed Dark Mages and Ogres almost always arriving from the left portal in tier 1 and 2 Old One's Army events. They will now randomly pick a portal. - Fixed an asymmetry in Lightning Aura’s minimum placement distance during the Old One's Army event. - Fixed Old One's Army being affected by Shimmer. - Fixed Martian Saucer increasing the player’s respawn time in multiplayer. Enemies - Fixed "[Enemy] has arrived!" messages appearing in the chat in worlds with lots of active enemies. - Fixed a spawn cap exploit involving Antlion Larvae and Bees. - Fixed a rare bug where worm-type trails could attach to other enemies. - Fixed Big Mimics not turning hostile when damaged by lava. - The Bird Banner now properly applies to normal Birds, Blue Jays, and Cardinals. - Fixed destroying a Slimer’s wings increasing its kill count. - Fixed the Golem sometimes spawning with multiple heads in multiplayer. - Fixed a rare bug where a second bound version of an NPC could spawn at the same time the first one is rescued. - Fixed NPC buffs not being synced when a player first joins a server. - Fixed spiders sometimes managing to clip through solid blocks! Aaaah! - Fixed Crimson Pigrons uniquely being incapable of entering water. - Fixed rain enemies spawning in the wrong places on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed Wraiths and Hoppin' Jacks not spawning in the right places on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed certain Crimslime variants not counting towards the Gelatin World Tour achievement. - The Nurse can no longer remove Brain of Confusion's Mindtrick buff. She was slightly confused there. - Fixed multiplayer issues involving Antlion's sand balls. - Fixed web spitting spiders spitting webs at slain players. - Fixed Spiked Slimes maintaining their focus on players that they've slain. - Improved walker enemies' ability to jump on platforms. - Fixed walker enemies jumping endlessly on platforms, when at the same elevation as their target. - Fixed rare cases of NPCs being perpetually wet, making the bees very sad. - Fixed Jungle and Spiked Ice Slimes sometimes spawning inside of blocks. - Fixed worms with picked up coins not respawning properly in Expert+. - Fixed some Snow biome NPCs being unable to spawn on Red Ice. - Fixed Corrupt and Crimson enemies not spawning correctly on Lesion and Flesh blocks. - Fixed For The Worthy and Journey mode scaling issues. Villagers - Fixed cases where the Dryad would forget how to do math when asked about the world’s infection status. - Fixed the Skeleton Merchant having broken behaviour in liquids. Additionally, he can no longer spawn in liquid. - Fixed Skeleton Merchant ignoring a player's Shadow Candle and appearing anyway. - Fixed the spirit of Christmas preventing NPCs from being killed when falling out of the bottom of the world. - Fixed villagers not dropping their party hats if slain during a party. Blocks & Furniture - Fixed Platforms and Planter Boxes not framing properly when next to Echo (coated) blocks. - Fixed Aetherium Brick not blending with Dirt. - Fixed Teleporters not breaking objects above them when they are broken. - Fixed being able to place items in Weapon Racks/Item Frames while you are using them. - Hallowed Mowed Grass no longer spreads paint when it grows. - Fixed closed doors breaking objects in their way when interacted with even if the door is blocked. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly breaking objects when placed by block swap. - Fixed placed Garden Gnomes having incorrect minimap labels. - Campfires and torches are now properly limited to their water resistant variants when block swapping them underwater. - Fixed certain hanging objects like Boulder Statues not breaking when their anchor blocks are block swapped into platforms. - Fixed being unable to place Moss on a single, isolated block. - Fixed being unable to place Ash Grass on a single, isolated Ash block. - Fixed platforms other than wood not being considered solid surfaces in certain cases. - Fixed being able to block swap solid blocks onto platforms that players are standing in. - Fixed acorns not being plantable on Ash Grass. - Fixed Crystals, Holiday Lights and Exposed Gems being placeable on the "wrong" side of sloped blocks. - Fixed cases where breaking one cage would break another adjacent cage. - Fixed Gem Trees breaking when moss spreads beneath them. - Fixed being able to step on a Weighted Pressure Plate twice. - Fixed auto-paint and auto-actuation failing when using block swap to switch similar items, such as one chest for another. - Fixed being unable to place more rope on an already very long rope in multiplayer. - Fixed Water Sensors being triggered by Shimmer. - Fixed being able to toggle half of a hanging lantern in multiplayer. - Fixed Honey Blocks slowing you down too much in reverse gravity. - Fixed certain block interactions happening multiple times at low FPS, such as putting items in Item Frames. - Fixed being able to craft items while using a Mannequins or Hat Rack. - Fixed Hanging Brazier/Pots instantly breaking when hanging them under a platform/block combination. - Fixed Bubbles being actuatable by timers. - Fixed vines not considering mowed grass a valid anchor, making them liable to spontaneous decomposition. - Fixed Land Mines and Geyser Traps spawning projectiles twice in multiplayer. - Fixed unsafe Fossil Walls being considered suitable housing material. World - Fixed biome music and backgrounds not having the same priorities, causing mismatches in certain biome combinations. - Fixed Meteorites not fully syncing in multiplayer when landing. - Fixed Meteorites not clearing slopes, paints and coatings when generated. - Fixed Hardmode ores retaining paint when generating over painted blocks. - Fixed certain Pyramid pots having broken map colours. - Fixed Palm Trees not inheriting the paint and coating of their root block when growing. - Fixed Palm Trees, Bamboo, Seaweed and Sea Oats not being coated when growing on a block with Illuminant Coating. - Fixed certain tree branches dropping acorns when they're above grass blocks. - Fixed Sakura and Yellow Willow trees not converting properly. - Fixed Celebration worlds flagging the initially spawned villagers as unlocked. - Boulders now properly interact with Shimmer. - Fixed rare cases of trees growing through solid blocks. - Fixed darkness damage applying incorrectly while the screen is panning in The Constant worlds. - Fixed luck incorrectly affecting damage from cutting Cactus in The Constant worlds. - Fixed grass and desert wall infection spreading asymmetrically. - Fixed Ash Trees dropping regular wood in certain cases. - Lily pads can now properly grow above Mowed Hallowed Grass. - Fixed lily pads losing their paint when floating up or down. - Fixed Crimson Plants not counting as Crimson blocks. - Fixed grass spread synchronization in multiplayer. - Fixed the underground to cavern background transitions not matching with Depth Meter values. - The Dryad now counts Lesion and Flesh blocks as Corrupt/Crimson blocks on Don’t Dig Up worlds. - Fixed Living Tree leaves burrowing into Sky Lakes and drinking all the water. Save some for the fish! - Rain now only stops Fireblossom from blooming if it’s growing in a layer that actually experiences rain. World Generation - Fixed several minor world gen issues. - Fixed boulders sometimes generating without a surrounding trap. - Fixed boulder traps sometimes generating without a boulder. - Fixed honey patches appearing outside of the Jungle (such as in the Underworld). - Fixed several liquid merge issues. - Fixed rare cases of Sky Island chests not containing their paintings. - Fixed boulder traps overlapping and breaking containers in rare situations. - Fixed extremely rare cases where Minecart tracks would manage to get into the Dungeon and Temple. - Fixed campfires sometimes generating too close to the dungeon. - Fixed rare cases of Temple chest loot appearing inside Mushroom chests. - Fixed a minor bug with liquid cleanup during world generation. - Fixed underground cabins attempting to generate outside the world. - Fixed traps in the Jungle Temple sometimes generating without a pressure plate. - Fixed Spider Stalactites and Honey Stalactites/-mites not generating. - Fixed Living Wood chests at the surface containing underground loot. - Fixed Living Wood chests appearing outside of Living Trees. - Fixed exposed gems and crystals generating on boulders and closed doors. - Fixed rare cases where Not The Bees worlds were missing an ocean. - Fixed cases of Underground Desert pressure plates appearing over other objects. - Fixed several chest loot items not appearing with prefixes. - Fixed a rare case where a new world could start at night. Spooky! - Fixed rare failures to place jungle plants during generation. - Fixed cases of the Dead Man's Chest boulders spawning over other valuables such as Life Crystals. - Fixed the wrong kind of pots generating in the Underground Desert. - Fixed the Dungeon's guaranteed Shadow Key always being placed in a Biome Chest. Shadow Keys no longer generate in Biome Chests at all. UI - Fixed favorited ammo sometimes being affected by quick stacking. - Fixed being unable to navigate the inventory when placing chests on gamepad. - Fixed the Create World menu showing the wrong world size preview image when initially opened. - Fixed the resource pack info scrollbar overlapping the textbox. - Fixed the main menu sometimes being upside down when quitting a world with reverse gravity active. - Fixed the back button in some menus backtracking all the way to the title screen instead of the previous menu. - Fixed the game falling back to the default hotbar hotkeys (1 through 0) rather than the assigned hotkeys while an item is being used. - Fixed quick stack to nearby chests taking items from ammo and hotbar slots in certain cases. - Fixed some NPCs in the Bestiary appearing in the wrong size. - Axe tools now get sorted properly when sorting. - Fixed dyes not getting sorted when sorting. - Fixed NPCs appearing incorrectly in the Bestiary on "For The Worthy" worlds. - Fixed some oddities with the hover range of Chest menu buttons. - Fixed death markers being invisible in the overlay map. - Fixed rare cases where UI elements would overlap when the player has the maximum amount of accessory slots. - Fixed the Metal Detector not always highlighting the most valuable treasure. - Fixed the Stopwatch showing wrong values when moving through Shimmer. - Fixed the DPS Meter not taking NPC defense into account in some cases. - Fixed items potentially being picked up into the cursor when opening Chester, the Money Trough or the Void Vault portal at high UI scales. - Fixed Bestiary kill counts resetting to 0 on multiplayer when getting very high. - Fixed the cursor icon flickering when hovering over the minimap buttons. - Fixed the Guide forgetting his initial 'help' text in certain cases. He only needed a bit of help, that’s all. - Fixed the Guide's help text on grappling hooks not checking for all hook types. - Fixed the world’s edge not matching up with the minimap’s edge. - Fixed certain hairstyles potentially not appearing in the Stylist's shop menu. - Fixed scrolling through the Stylist's hair window also scrolling through your hotbar under certain zoom settings. - Fixed repeatedly sorting sometimes causing items to leapfrog over each other. - Fixed the incorrect error message displaying when trying to join a server with an incompatible character. - Fixed shops showing incorrect gamepad hints. - Fixed the cursor icon not always indicating when you are about to trash an item. - Fixed multiplayer chat not drawing above Hardcore ghost's heads. - Fixed Void Vault and Defender's Forge icons overlapping in the savings display. - Fixed exiting the virtual keyboard on gamepad also closing the Journey menu. - Fixed the mouse cursor rendering incorrectly when certain menus are open. - Fixed certain chat commands converting their input to lowercase. - Fixed mouseover text appearing when hovering over certain buttons that have items behind them in the world. - Fixed gamepad navigation in the villager housing menu when there is only one column of villagers. - Fixed teleporting causing erratic minimap patterns. - Fixed map pings persisting between worlds. - Fixed Quick Use deleting items when used while an item is already mid-use. - Fixed the Esc key not working for anything but chat on Mac/Linux. - Fixed the game overlaying the cursor for the rest of the session when the mouse is disconnected and then reconnected on Mac. - Fixed the Ruler's distance display scaling with World Zoom rather than UI Scale. - Fixed being unable to quick-unequip the Master Mode accessory on Steam Deck. - Fixed quick-crafted coins on gamepad immediately converting back to their original denomination. - Fixed the player being dismounted when opening the Bestiary on gamepad. - Fixed the "Take One" action on gamepad not working for single items. - Fixed the Smart Cursor icon rendering in the fullscreen map on gamepad. - Fixed the Smart Cursor visual extending beyond the player's functional range in extreme situations. - Fixed Smart Cursor's direction lock being asymmetrical. - Fixed a visual issue with the achievement unlocked notifications. - Fixed house assignment not working correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed D-Pad cursor snapping not working in reverse gravity. - Fixed moving the map not respecting mouse input at certain resolutions. - Fixed a duplicate gamepad hint that appears when hovering over the minecart equip slot. - Fixed other player's names showing when hovering over them while they are invisible. - Fixed the gamepad hints for accessory slots in Master Mode being incorrect in certain cases. - Fixed gamepad's virtual keyboard breaking on lower framerates. - Fixed kites responding to mouse clicks when trying to click interface buttons. - Bed and Spawn map icons are now properly centered. - Fixed player chat text going offscreen when resizing the game window. - Emotes are now correctly removed when players are slain. Camera Mode - Fixed the sky not appearing correctly in captures during rain. - Fixed the Aether biome's background stars not appearing properly in snapshots of underground areas. - Fixed certain background elements not appearing in their correct place in camera captures. - Fixed blurry backgrounds in high resolution camera captures. - Fixed Monoliths not properly working with camera captures. - Fixed camera captures sometimes not having transparent backgrounds when backgrounds are disabled. - Fixed large world snapshots with lots of furniture crashing in certain circumstances. - Fixed the screenshot area being affected by UI scale. - Fixed water artifacts appearing in snapshots. Visual Issues - Fixed the Tax Collector's Suit's scarf being visible when you are transformed into a Werewolf or Merman. - Fixed Starlight's animation not pausing when the game is paused. - Dungeon Guardian now properly emits effects when attacked. - Fixed several items not matching the player's stealth when held out. - Fixed drinking Biome Sight Potion not producing particles. - Fixed some stalactites/-mites having the wrong break dusts. - Fixed the leaf burst from a growing tree not using the tree's paint. - Fixed the Hellfire Treads' and Terraspark Boots' effects not being affected by dye properly. - Fixed Xeno Staff minions not displaying attack dusts on remote clients. - Fixed Queen Slime's projectiles not having the same default brightness as her minion's projectiles. - Fixed brightness flickering when entering a surface Glowing Mushroom biome. - Fixed cases where the camera would move very fast instead of transitioning to black when teleporting. - Fixed the game not using a black fade transition when switching from tracking view (golf ball, FPV Goggles) to Binoculars. - Fixed certain backgrounds having their treetops slightly cut-off. - Fixed the Flesh Grinder not rendering properly. - Fixed rare visual errors with Martian Dye. - Fixed various plants ignoring certain paints. - Fixed some furnitures not properly reacting to coatings. - Fixed tree shake effects playing twice in multiplayer in certain cases. - Fixed certain mounts making bubble effects appear in the wrong position underwater. - Fixed NPCs rarely sliding instead of teleporting after using teleporters in multiplayer. - Fixed regular and wooden minecarts animating in reverse. - Fixed Brain of Cthulhu sometimes rendering incorrectly in phase two. - Fixed certain items being offset incorrectly when used by mounted players. - Fixed visual glitches from Magic Missile-type weapons on certain graphics cards. - Fixed certain cases where liquid would incorrectly draw, especially near Bubbles. - Fixed some visual issues with sleeping in a bed. - Fixed the Pigron mount's idle animation not being used. - Fixed Jellyfish Jar placement previews and glowmasks being skewed. - Fixed Jellyfish Jars not creating extra bright light when the Jellyfish is glowing. - Fixed placement preview issues with Placed Signs, Tattered Signs, Arrow Signs, Item Frames, Switches and the Announcement Box. - Fixed the alchemy herbs placement preview not being accurate. - Fixed visual glitches with child safe gores. - Fixed the mana gained effect from the Magic Cuffs appearing twice for other players. - Fixed certain wings unintentionally being visible when grappled to a surface. - Fixed the Eyebrella spawning rain while the fullscreen map is active, causing a burst of rain when you close the map. - Fixed Christmas Trees not properly attaching to the ground. - Fixed main menu sometimes showing watery ripples. - Fixed some chandeliers not emitting sparks. - Fixed small visual oddities with Chain Knife and Knife Guillotine. - Fixed yucky cases where Stinkbug Blockers would appear incorrectly. - Fixed the Crystal Dart projectiles not properly rotating when bouncing. - Fixed some issues with the Crystal Serpent's visual effects. - Fixed some interactions between glowing blocks and complete darkness. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparition's... appearance? - Fixed certain visual effects that track players incorrectly tracking velocity. - Fixed Orange Stained Glass appearance in the Underworld. - Fixed the Gold Water Strider not emitting sparkles. - Fixed Truffle Worm losing its glow effect when escaping from players. - Fixed certain wings not becoming fully invisible when entering stealth (e.g. Shroomite). - The Inner Tube now correctly gets affected by stealth. - Fixed stray white pixels appearing around Pigrons and the Pigron Mount. - Removed a white pixel in the Demolitionist and Tavernkeep's spritesheets that appears when they fall. - The main menu will no longer skip a moon phase when cycling through the days. - Players will no longer show their failed attempts at using mana consuming items, when they don't have enough mana, in multiplayer. - Fixed clouds moving excessively at low framerates. - Fixed distant clouds stuttering when moving vertically. - Fixed lava emitting water particles when a player gets out. - Fixed framing issues with Crystal Shards interacting with half-bricks. - Fixed Ash Plants and Lilypads not reacting to paint. - Fixed paint not working properly on Sunflowers. - Fixed Chlorophyte Partisan's projectile being visually cut off. - Fixed Shiverthorn not glowing in the dark. - Fixed blood disappearing quicker than intended. - Fixed players respawning with honey particles after being slain in honey. - Fixed scaling artifacts on Eater of Worlds' segments. - Fixed visual issues with Rocket Boots when mounting/swapping loadouts mid-air. - Fixed the Glass Slipper's sparkle effect being visible when the accessory isn’t. - Fixed certain visual effects not functioning correctly in reverse gravity. - Fixed several pets changing directions or going invisible when entering flight from standstill. - Improved Caveling Gardener's direction when standing still. - Fixed visual issues involving player's overhead chat, nameplates, reverse gravity and high latencies. - Fixed the background suddenly disappearing at high altitude in certain circumstances. - Fixed the glowmasks of certain dyes. - Improved Obsidian Skull Rose and Molten Skull Rose compatibility with various armor pieces. - Fixed certain furniture items not emitting their effects properly in Retro Lighting. - Fixed certain coats appearing incorrectly when the player is sitting. - Fixed visual issues when sitting while wearing some specific leg items. - Fixed Shimmer animations breaking when under the effect of a Hunter Potion. - Fixed a visual issue with the Graduation Gown. - Fixed a visual issue with the Fallen Tuxedo Pants. - Fixed a visual issue with the Desert Spirit. - Fixed inconsistencies in the item directions of minecarts, chairs, and beds. - Fixed Fishing Rods jittering when moving horizontally. - Fixed Spears jittering when moving over slopes. - Fixed framing issues caused by block swapping Glass. - Fixed vines disappearing when their anchor block is hammered. - Fixed an issue with sloped glowing blocks. - Fixed a variety of enemies animating slower when walking to the left. - Fixed Snowfall Block drawing liquids behind it. - Fixed Headless Horseman's NPC's Pumpkin projectiles having upside down shadows. Spooky! - Fixed Truffle's glow not fading when shimmering. - Fixed Hades Dye not working properly on certain pets and mounts. - Fixed a lot of projectiles drawing twice. - Fixed the Mechanic being offset by a single pixel when sitting, which someone somehow noticed and made a Reddit post about! Thanks! - Fixed Echo coated blocks drawing black artifacts in certain cases. - Fixed Chlorophyte Dye's glowmask being in the wrong place at the right time. - Fixed Oozed debuff still producing visual effects on slain players. - Fixed waterfalls flowing upwards in certain cases. - Fixed certain visual effects appearing incorrectly in multiplayer at high latencies. - Fixed Moon Lord floating to the left in multiplayer in its final moments. - Fixed cut-off rendering on Retro Lighting at high resolutions. - Fixed a framing issue with exposed gems. - Fixed certain wings not blinking when the wearer is damaged. - Fixed the Vortex Helmet using an incorrect glowmask. - Fixed an issue with the Flesh Chandelier's animation. - Fixed Team Dye not applying properly to Minions, Pets, Light Pets and Hooks. Audio - Terraria no longer fails to launch when it fails to detect an available audio device. - Fixed item use sounds from remote clients not playing properly in Multiplayer in specific cases. - Fixed Shadowflame Apparitions, Parrots, Pirate's Curse, Scutlices and Martian Saucers not playing their invasion music if they're the only enemy left. - Fixed waterfall sounds being anchored to the player rather than the camera. - Fixed certain sounds playing twice when switching between menus. - Fixed the item pickup sound not always being centered. - Fixed Betsy's scream being audible throughout the whole world. - Fixed some sounds playing multiple times on the gamepad’s virtual keyboard at low framerates. Localization - Fixed several IME issues. - Fixed references to mouse buttons in loading tips not being localized. - Improved line wrapping of text for some languages. - Fixed Green Cap, Ivy, and Jim's Cap not dropping when the game is set to certain languages. - Fixed Old One's Army, Pumpkin Moon, and Frost Moon having an extra colon in the numbered wave text. - Fixed the Drax's outdated name in several languages. - Fixed some errors in the Princess and Pirate's dialogue. - Fixed the Steampunker's party dialogue. - Fixed a typo in Goblin Tinkerer's happiness dialogue. - Fixed Celebration MK2's projectiles having no localization. - Fixed some of the Tax Collector's dialogue being inaccessible. - Fixed several punctuation issues. - Fixed some inconsistencies with the credits localization. Miscellaneous - Terraria no longer fails to launch if a resource pack fails to load properly. - Fixed several certain exploits. - Fixed an incompatibility with Terraria 1.0.6.1 saves. - Fixed some input issues when using AZERTY keyboard layouts. - Fixed a rare "Lost connection" issue for slower clients. - Fixed the "language" option from the dedicated server configuration not working. - Fixed the “autocreate” option from the dedicated server configuration not working if used out of order. - Fixed the dedicated server’s “-world” argument crashing when the world doesn't exist, even if “-autocreate” is also used. - Improved menu related stability when joining friends via Steam. - Fixed an issue where uploading a player to the Steam Cloud when a player with the same name already exists there could delete that player’s minimap data. - Fixed updating a published Workshop item resetting its publicity to Public in certain cases. - Fixed some incorrect default values when opening Terraria for the first time. This caused hardware RGB to not function. - Fixed being unable to join your own Host & Play server after having previously connected to a server using a different port than 7777. Join our Newsletter Subscribe for the latest updates on all things gaming! How would you rate this blog? Share your opinion and help us make our blogs even better! Didn't like Neutral Liked Need a game server? Rent a game server where you and your friends can play privately with low latency and custom settings. Choose from 100+ games, invite people from around the globe, and enjoy private matches, or build your own online community with your own rules. Relevant Blogs GET THE INSIDE SCOOP! Join our email for updates on our hosted games, company news and exclusive deals. Stay in the loop!
