=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mozart in the Jungle - Wikipedia]
Gael García Bernal as Rodrigo De Souza, the new conductor of the New York Symphony Lola Kirke as Hailey Rutledge, an oboist with a yearning ambition to play with the New York Symphony. She develops a strong bond with Rodrigo as the series progresses. Bernadette Peters as Gloria Windsor, the president of the New York Symphony (recurring, season 1; seasons 2–4) Malcolm McDowell as Thomas ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mozart_in_the_Jungle

[Gael García Bernal]
In 2014, he was cast in the lead role of Rodrigo de Souza in the Amazon Studios comedy-drama television series Mozart in the Jungle. His performance in the show ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gael_Garc%C3%ADa_Bernal

[Gael García Bernal - Wikiwand]
In 2014, he was cast in the lead role of Rodrigo de Souza in the Amazon Studios comedy-drama television series Mozart in the Jungle. His performance in the show was met with rave reviews, earning him a Golden Globe Award in 2016. [citation needed]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Gael%20Garcia%20Bernal

[Gael Garcia Bernal (Gael García Bernal) - MyDramaList]
Gael García Bernal is a Mexican actor and filmmaker. He is known for his performances in the films Amores perros (2000), Y tu mamá también (2001), Bad Education (2004), The Motorcycle Diaries (2004), Babel (2006), Coco (2017), Old (2021), and Cassandro (2023). On television, he portrayed music conductor Rodrigo De Souza in the series Mozart in the Jungle (2014–2018), and starred as the ...
URL: https://mydramalist.com/people/156316-gael-garc-a-bernal

[Mozart in the Jungle (TV Series 2014–2018)]
Gael García Bernal and Lola Kirke in Mozart in the Jungle (2014) ... Rodrigo De Souza. 40 eps 40 episodes • 2014–2018. Lola Kirke · Hailey ...
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt3502172/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mozart in the Jungle - Wikipedia] ---
Mozart in the Jungle is an American comedy-drama television series developed by Roman Coppola, Jason Schwartzman, Alex Timbers, and Paul Weitz for the video-on-demand service Amazon Prime Video. It received a production order in March 2014.
The story was inspired by Mozart in the Jungle: Sex, Drugs, and Classical Music, oboist Blair Tindall's 2005 memoir of her career in New York, playing various high-profile gigs with ensembles including the New York Philharmonic and the orchestras of numerous Broadway shows. The series stars Gael García Bernal as Rodrigo, a character based on conductor Gustavo Dudamel, alongside Lola Kirke, Malcolm McDowell, Saffron Burrows, Hannah Dunne, Peter Vack, and Bernadette Peters.
The first season premiered in full on December 23, 2014. Three more seasons, each ten episodes long, followed in 2015, 2016 and 2018, before Amazon announced the show's cancellation.


--- [Gael García Bernal] ---
Gael García Bernal (Spanish: [ɡaˈel ɣaɾˈsi.a βeɾˈnal]; born 30 November 1978) is a Mexican actor and filmmaker. He is known for his performances in the films Amores perros (2000), Y tu mamá también (2001), Bad Education (2004), The Motorcycle Diaries (2004), Babel (2006), Coco (2017), Old (2021), Cassandro (2023) and Magellan (2025). On television, he portrayed music conductor Rodrigo De Souza in the series Mozart in the Jungle (2014–2018), and starred as the titular character in the Disney+ special Werewolf by Night (2022).
García Bernal was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role for his portrayal of a young Che Guevara in The Motorcycle Diaries in 2005, and in 2016 won his first Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy for Mozart in the Jungle. He and fellow actor Diego Luna founded the production company Canana Films in Mexico City. In 2016, Time magazine named him in the annual Time 100 most influential people list. In 2020, The New York Times ranked him No. 25 in its list of the 25 Greatest Actors of the 21st Century.




--- [Gael García Bernal - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Gael Garcia Bernal (Gael García Bernal) - MyDramaList] ---
Gael Garcia Bernal - Name: Gael Garcia Bernal - Native name: Gael García Bernal - Nationality: Mexican - Gender: Male - Born: November 30, 1978 - Age: 47 (Source: Wikipedia) Edit Biography Movie | Title | Rating | |---|---| | Magellan Filipino Movie, 2025, Fernão de Magalhães (Main Role) | 0.0 | Trending Articles Song Kang and Kim So Hyun to co-star in a new K-drama News - Feb 24, 2026 Kim So Hyun and Song Kang to possibly star in new K-drama 'White Scandal' Disney+ responds to reports of releasing Kim Soo Hyun–led 'Knock Off' this year News - Mar 3, 2026 Disney+ has released a statement that reports claiming its original series 'Knock Off', starring actor Kim Soo Hyun Zhang Ling He and Tian Xi Wei's 'Pursuit of Jade' announces premiere date News - Feb 27, 2026 The highly anticipated Chinese historical drama 'Pursuit of Jade', starring Zhang Ling He, Tian Xi Wei, Snow Kong, and Deng Kai, has unveiled its release date Kim Myung Soo (L) and Kang Min Ah confirmed for a new rom-com K-Drama - Feb 25, 2026 Kang Min Ah and Kim Myung Soo, aka L, are confirmed for a new drama! Shin Ye Eun in talks for dynamic lead role in new K-drama News - Feb 26, 2026 Actress Shin Ye Eun will possibly star as the lead in 'High School Queen' (literal title) Park Min Young explains why she lost weight for 'Siren’s Kiss' News - Feb 23, 2026 Cast and crew of 'Siren’s Kiss' gather for the K-drama's press conference Byun Yo Han and Tiffany Young officially become husband and wife News - Mar 1, 2026 Byun Yo Han and Tiffany Young have tied the knot 'Siren’s Kiss' premieres to stellar ratings News - Mar 3, 2026 Check out the domestic viewership of weekday K-dramas


--- [Mozart in the Jungle (TV Series 2014–2018)] ---
Love, money, ambition and music intertwine in "Mozart in the Jungle;" a half-hour comedic drama that looks at finding yourself, and finding love, while conquering New York City. Brash new ma... Read allLove, money, ambition and music intertwine in "Mozart in the Jungle;" a half-hour comedic drama that looks at finding yourself, and finding love, while conquering New York City. Brash new maestro, Rodrigo, stirs up the New York Symphony, as young oboist, Haile, hopes for her big ... Read allLove, money, ambition and music intertwine in "Mozart in the Jungle;" a half-hour comedic drama that looks at finding yourself, and finding love, while conquering New York City. Brash new maestro, Rodrigo, stirs up the New York Symphony, as young oboist, Haile, hopes for her big chance. - Won 2 Primetime Emmys - 10 wins & 12 nominations total Summary Featured reviews I stand corrected. It took me a single day of blissful binge-watching to finish the entire first season and I must say I am impressed. The characters are strong and able to draw you in, the atmosphere and setting are captivating, and the music is simply top-notch. When all are tied neatly together it makes for a wondrously entertaining season. And how could one forget: the comedy! Whilst of course it is entirely subjective, I found every episode to be wholesomely amusing. Every character is entertaining in their own right and not a single line seems unfit for purpose. The humour was exactly to my liking and did not fall into the trap so many comedies today do in which they attempt to be hilarious and unfortunately end up just being silly. As expected, however, it is not perfect. One particular instance in which I found myself to eventually drift-off was the Rodrigo-Anna Maria sub-plot. I did not find this to be interesting, rather I thought it tiresome. Despite both characters being excellently written and the acting being spot-on, this didn't quite engross me like the rest of the show did. In addition, a criticism I have (perhaps a minor one) pertains to the memorability of the characters. Specifically: their names! Maybe it was just me but halfway through the season I still only knew a couple of the characters' names. This could be in part to blame on my binge-watching manner, or, more worryingly, the writing. Regardless, I consider these to be minor blemishes upon the finished product. Let us end on a high note: the music. The music is what makes this so fresh. If it weren't for the music, I do believe this would just be another average comedy. The music adds something more, a passion, as Rodrigo may say. It truly does draw you in and you really can feel the energy and enthusiasm. It's what makes this show stand out from the rest and what kept me enthralled, among other things. I am absolutely delighted with the first season of Mozart in the Jungle and will be returning for season two. It is with great pride to say that the witty sense of humor of the modern Mexican culture is captivated, without loosing the connection to its eccentric American counterpart. There is an element of "Magic Realism" that will bring spice to the show, making it more unpredictable and appealing, specially who those who are so tired of super elaborated and complicated dramas. Thanks Amazon for bringing this master piece to life. Bravo!!! Did you know - TriviaNew York City tenant laws allow musicians to practice their chosen instrument from the morning until 10 pm in the evening. Sometimes the musician's union is called to help their members enforce their right to practice at home. - ConnectionsFeatured in 73rd Golden Globe Awards (2016) - SoundtracksOdd Soul (uncredited) Written by Paul Meany, Roy Mitchell-Cárdenas, Darren King, and Adam LaClave Performed by Mutemath - How many seasons does Mozart in the Jungle have?Powered by Alexa Details - Release date - Country of origin - Language - Also known as - Моцарт у джунглях - Filming locations - Purchase, New York, USA(interior concert scenes) - Production companies - See more company credits at IMDbPro - Runtime - 30m - Color - Sound mix - Aspect ratio - 1.78 : 1
