=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Richard Dawkins Award - Wikipedia]
The Richard Dawkins Award is an annual prize awarded by the Center for Inquiry (CFI). It was established in 2003 and was initially awarded by the Atheist Alliance of America coordinating with Richard Dawkins and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science. [1] In 2019, the award was formally moved to CFI. [2] CFI is a US nonprofit organization that variously claims on its website to ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Dawkins_Award

[The Richard Dawkins Award - Atheist Alliance of America]
The Richards Dawkins Award The Atheist Alliance of America created the Richard Dawkins Award in 2003 to honor an outstanding atheist whose contributions raise public awareness of the nontheist life stance; who, through writings, media, the arts, film, and/or the stage, advocates increased scientific knowledge; who, through work or by example ...
URL: https://atheistallianceamerica.org/the-richard-dawkins-award/

[In pics | Richard Dawkins Award past winners - Javed Akhtar ...]
Jun 8, 2020 · In 2004, Ann Druyan received the Richard Dawkins Award. Druyan is an Emmy and Peabody Award-winning American writer, producer, and director specialising in the communication of science.
URL: https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/photos/india/in-pics-richard-dawkins-award-past-winners-javed-akhtar-to-stephen-fry-5373551.html

[Richard Dawkins Award]
It has been awarded each year since 2003 and was originally given by the Atheist Alliance of America in coordination with Richard Dawkins and the Richard ...
URL: https://centerforinquiry.org/richard-dawkins-award/

[Richard Dawkins Award - Wikiwand]
The Richard Dawkins Award is named in honor of the British evolutionary biologist. In a 2013 poll conducted by Prospect magazine, Dawkins was ranked first in the list of "world thinkers" rankings. He is famous for his atheistic beliefs, [5] and has written books including The God Delusion and Outgrowing God: A Beginner's Guide. [6][7] The first Richard Dawkins Award was received by James Randi ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Richard%20Dawkins%20Award


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Richard Dawkins Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Richard Dawkins Award is an annual prize awarded by the Center for Inquiry (CFI). It was established in 2003 and was initially awarded by the Atheist Alliance of America coordinating with Richard Dawkins and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science. In 2019, the award was formally moved to CFI. CFI is a US nonprofit organization that variously claims on its website to promote reason, science, freedom of inquiry, and humanist values, or science, reason, and secular values. The award was initially presented by the Atheist Alliance of America to honor an "outstanding atheist", who taught or advocated scientific knowledge and acceptance of nontheism, and raised public awareness. The award is currently presented by the Center for Inquiry to an individual associated with science, scholarship, education, or entertainment, and who "publicly proclaims the values of secularism and rationalism, upholding scientific truth wherever it may lead." They state that the recipient must be approved by Dawkins himself.
The Richard Dawkins Award is named in honor of the British evolutionary biologist. In a 2013 poll conducted by Prospect magazine, Dawkins was ranked first in the list of "world thinkers" rankings. He is famous for his atheistic beliefs, and has written books including The God Delusion and Outgrowing God: A Beginner's Guide. The first Richard Dawkins Award was received by James Randi, a magician who investigated and debunked various paranormal claims. In 2005, Penn Jillette and Teller, jointly as Penn & Teller, received the award. In 2009, Bill Maher received the award; due to his views on vaccines and his criticism of evidence-based medicine, oncologist David Gorski referred to him receiving the award as "inappropriate". In 2020, Javed Akhtar became the first Indian to receive the award. In 2021, Tim Minchin received the award. In 2022, Neil deGrasse Tyson received the award saying it was an honor that he would hold above all others.




--- [The Richard Dawkins Award - Atheist Alliance of America] ---
The Richards Dawkins Award The Atheist Alliance of America created the Richard Dawkins Award in 2003 to honor an outstanding atheist whose contributions raise public awareness of the nontheist life stance; who, through writings, media, the arts, film, and/or the stage, advocates increased scientific knowledge; who, through work or by example, teaches acceptance of the nontheist philosophy. Previous recipients were James Randi, Ann Druyan, Penn and Teller, Julia Sweeney, Daniel Dennett, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Bill Maher, Susan Jacoby, Christopher Hitchens, Eugenie Scott, Steven Pinker, Stephen Fry and Ricky Gervais. Click on the names below to read more about past Richard Dawkins Award Recipients: 2003: James Randi 2004: Ann Druyan 2005: Penn & Teller 2006: Julia Sweeney 2007: Daniel Dennett 2008: Ayaan Hirsi Ali 2009: Bill Maher 2010: Susan Jacoby 2011: Christopher Hitchens 2012: Eugenie Scott 2013: Steven Pinker 2014: Rebecca Goldstein 2015: Jerry Coyne 2016: Lawrence Krauss 2017: David Silverman 2018: Stephen Fry 2016 Richard Dawkins Award Melissa P and Mark W.G. Presents The Richard Dawkins Award to Dr. Lawrence Krauss Dr. Jerry Coyne Receives the Richard Dawkins Award 2015, Atlanta Please join our mailing list and receive a free copy of Secular Nation magazine as well as our updates.


--- [In pics | Richard Dawkins Award past winners - Javed Akhtar ...] ---
In pics | Richard Dawkins Award past winners - Javed Akhtar to Stephen Fry Here is a list of past winners of Richard Dawkins Award. 1/18 James Randi received the first Richard Dawkins Award in 2003. Randi is a Canadian-American. The retired stage magician and scientific skeptic has extensively challenged paranormal and pseudoscientific claims. Randi is the co-founder of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. (CSI). (Wikipedia) 2/18 In 2004, Ann Druyan received the Richard Dawkins Award. Druyan is an Emmy and Peabody Award-winning American writer, producer, and director specialising in the communication of science. She co-wrote the 1980 PBS documentary series Cosmos, hosted by Carl Sagan, whom she married in 1981. She is the creator, producer, and writer of the 2014 sequel, Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey and its sequel series, Cosmos: Possible Worlds, as well as the book of the same name. She is credited with directing episodes of both series as well. (Reuters) 3/18 In 2005, Penn & Teller were awarded the Richard Dawkins Award. Penn & Teller are American magicians and entertainers who have performed together since the late 1970s, noted for their ongoing act that combines elements of comedy with magic. The duo has been featured in numerous stage and television shows such as Penn & Teller: Fool Us and they currently perform in Las Vegas at The Rio, the longest-running headliners to play at the same hotel in Las Vegas history. (Reuters) 4/18 Daniel Clement Dennett was the fifth to receive the Richard Dawkins Award. Dennett is an American philosopher, writer, and cognitive scientist whose research centers on the philosophy of mind, philosophy of science, and philosophy of biology, particularly as those fields relate to evolutionary biology and cognitive science. (Reuters) 5/18 Julia Sweeney won Richard Dawkins Award in 2006. Sweeney is an American actress, comedian and author. She was a cast member on the Saturday Night Live from 1990 to 1994. She played Mrs. Keeper in the film Stuart Little and voiced Brittany in Father of the Pride. She currently co-stars in the Hulu series Shrill and the Showtime series Work in Progress.(Wikipedia) 6/18 In 2008, Ayaan Hirsi Ali was awarded the Richard Dawkins Prize (2008) by the Atheist Alliance International. Ali is a Somali-born Dutch-American activist, feminist, author, scholar and former politician.She received international attention as a critic of Islam and advocate for the rights and self-determination of Muslim women, actively opposing forced marriage, honour violence, child marriage and female genital mutilation. (Wikipedia) 7/18 Bill Maher received the 2009 Richard Dawkins Award. Maher is an American comedian, political commentator, and television host. He is known for the HBO political talk show Real Time with Bill Maher (2003–present) and the similar late-night show called Politically Incorrect (1993–2002), originally on Comedy Central and later on ABC. (Reuters) 8/18 Susan Jacoby was awarded The Richard Dawkins Award by Atheist Alliance International in 2010. Susan Jacoby is an American author. Her 2008 book about American anti-intellectualism, The Age of American Unreason was a New York Times best seller. She is an atheist and a secularist. Jacoby graduated from Michigan State University in 1965. She lives in New York City and is program director of the New York branch of the Center for Inquiry. (Wikipedia) 9/18 Christopher Hitchens was awarded the Richard Dawkins Award in 2011, the same year when he passed away. Hitchens was an English-American intellectual, philosopher and social critic. (Wikipedia) 10/18 The Richard Dawkins Award was presented to Eugenie Scott in 2012. Scott is an American physical anthropologist, former university professor and educator who has been active in opposing the teaching of young Earth creationism and intelligent design in schools. (Reuters) 11/18 Steven Pinker received the Richard Dawkins Award. Pinker is a Canadian-American cognitive psychologist, linguist, and popular science author. He is a Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University and is known for his advocacy of evolutionary psychology and the computational theory of mind. (Reuters) 12/18 In 2014, Rebecca Goldstein was awarded the Richard Dawkins Award. Goldstein is an American philosopher, novelist and public intellectual. She has written ten books, both fiction and nonfiction. She holds a Ph.D. in philosophy of science from Princeton University and is sometimes grouped with novelists such as Richard Powers and Alan Lightman, who create fiction that is knowledgeable of, and sympathetic toward, science. (Wikipedia) 13/18 Jerry Coyne was awarded the Richard Dawkins Award in 2015. Coyne is an American biologist known for his work on speciation and his commentary on intelligent design. A prolific scientist and author, he has published numerous papers elucidating the theory of evolution. (Wikipedia) 14/18 Richard Dawkins Award in 2016 awarded to Lawrence M. Krauss. Krauss is an American-Canadian theoretical physicist and cosmologist who previously taught at Arizona State University, Yale University, and Case Western Reserve University. He founded ASU's Origins Project, now called ASU Interplanetary Initiative, to investigate fundamental questions about the universe and served as the project's director. (Wikipedia) 15/18 In 2017, The Richard Dawkins Award was awarded to David Silverman. Silverman is an American secular advocate and previously served as the president of American Atheists, a non-profit organization supporting the rights of atheists and the removal of expressions of religion in government, from 2010 to 2018. (Wikipedia) 16/18 The Richard Dawkins Award was given to Stephen Fry in 2018. Fry is an English actor, comedian and writer. He and Hugh Laurie are the comic double - Fry and Laurie, who starred in A Bit of Fry & Laurie and Jeeves and Wooster. (Reuters) 17/18 Ricky Gervais was awarded the 2019 Richard Dawkins Award. Gervais is an English comedian, actor, writer, producer, and director. He is best known for co-creating, writing, and acting in the British television series The Office (2001–2003). (Reuters) 18/18 In 2020, Javed Akhtar was the first Indian to receive the Richard Dawkins Award for his contribution to secularism, free thinking, critical thinking and for holding religious dogma up to scrutiny, advancing human progress and humanist values. Akhtar is an Indian political activist, poet, lyricist and screenwriter, originally from Gwalior area. He is a recipient of the Padma Shri (1999), Padma Bhushan (2007), the Sahitya Akademi Award as well as five National Film Awards. (Reuters) Discover the latest Business News, Budget 2025 News, Sensex, and Nifty updates. Obtain Personal Finance insights, tax queries, and expert opinions on Moneycontrol or download the Moneycontrol App to stay updated!


--- [Richard Dawkins Award] ---
Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Forgot your password? Having trouble? Email us at [email protected] Your account now works on all of our websites.


--- [Richard Dawkins Award - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
