=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Manny Diaz (born March 2, 1973), American politician | World ...]
In 2010, Díaz ran for the Miami-Dade County School Board, but lost to Perla Tabares Hantman in the primary, receiving only 39% of the vote to her 61%. In 2012, following the reconfiguration of districts, Díaz ran in the newly created 103rd District in the Republican primary against former State Representative Renier Díaz de la Portilla and ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/manny.diaz/2258736

[Manny Díaz Jr. - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 7, 2024 · Díaz then began working as a teacher and a coach at Miami Springs High School and Hialeah-Miami Lakes High School, and then became an assistant principal at Hialeah-Miami Lakes. In 2010, Díaz ran for the Miami-Dade County School Board, but lost to Perla Tabares Hantman in the primary, receiving only 39% of the vote to her 61%.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Manny-D%C3%ADaz-Jr.

[Manny Díaz Jr. - Wikipedia]
Manny Díaz Jr. (born March 2, 1973) [1] is an American politician who is currently serving as the president of the University of West Florida. Díaz served as the 28th education commissioner of Florida from 2022-2025. A Republican, Díaz was a member of the Florida Senate from 2018 to 2022, representing the 36th district, which encompasses the Hialeah area in northwest Miami-Dade County. He ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manny_D%C3%ADaz_Jr.

[Perla Tabares Hantman - Ballotpedia]
Perla Tabares Hantman was a member of the Miami-Dade County Public Schools school board in Florida, representing District 4. Tabares Hantman assumed office in 1996. Tabares Hantman left office on November 22, 2022. Tabares Hantman ran for re-election to the Miami-Dade County Public Schools school board to represent District 4 in Florida.
URL: https://ballotpedia.org/Perla_Tabares_Hantman

[Manny Diaz Jr. is no-show at work - and at debates]
Oct 14, 2016 — Ivette Gonzalez Petkovich went to the Sun Sentinel screening and the Univision Destino 2016 debate for state reps in September. Diaz skipped ...
URL: https://www.politicalcortadito.com/2016/10/14/manny-diaz-jr-no-show-at-debates/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Manny Diaz (born March 2, 1973), American politician | World ...] ---
No content


--- [Manny Díaz Jr. - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Spouse(s) Jennifer "Jenny" Diaz Name Manny Jr. | Children Dominic, Madison | | Profession Teacher, school administrator | EdPolicy Leaders Online: Manny Diaz, Jr., State Representative, Florida Manny Díaz Jr. (born March 2, 1973) is a Republican member of the Florida House of Representatives, representing the 103rd District, which includes southern Broward County and northeastern Miami-Dade County, stretching from Miramar to Hialeah Gardens, since 2012. Contents - EdPolicy Leaders Online Manny Diaz Jr State Representative Florida - Florida State Senate Candidate Manny Diaz Jr - History - Florida House of Representatives - References Florida State Senate Candidate: Manny Diaz, Jr History Díaz was born in Hialeah, and attended St. Thomas University, where he graduated with a degree in human resources in 1994. He then attended Nova Southeastern University, graduating with a Master's degree in educational leadership in 1998. Díaz then began working as a teacher and a coach at Miami Springs High School and Hialeah-Miami Lakes High School, and then became an assistant principal at Hialeah-Miami Lakes. In 2010, Díaz ran for the Miami-Dade County School Board, but lost to Perla Tabares Hantman in the primary, receiving only 39% of the vote to her 61%. Florida House of Representatives In 2012, following the reconfiguration of Florida House of Representatives districts, Díaz ran in the newly created 103rd District in the Republican primary against former State Representative Renier Díaz de la Portilla and Alfredo Naredo-Acosta. Despite the nastiness and perceived closeness of the race, Díaz ended up defeating his opponents by a wide margin, winning 55% of the vote to Díaz de la Portilla's 39% and Naredo-Acosta's 6%. He faced only write-in opposition in the general election and won by a wide margin. While serving in the legislature, Díaz sponsored legislation that would "allow more private online education companies, some from outside Florida," to offer classes to public school students; allow students to take classes in public virtual schools in other counties, and require the Florida Department of Education "to create a catalogue of online offerings."


--- [Manny Díaz Jr. - Wikipedia] ---
Manny Díaz Jr. (born March 2, 1973) is an American politician who is currently serving as the president of the University of West Florida. Díaz served as the 28th education commissioner of Florida from 2022-2025. A Republican, Díaz was a member of the Florida Senate from 2018 to 2022, representing the 36th district, which encompasses the Hialeah area in northwest Miami-Dade County. He also served three terms in the Florida House of Representatives from 2012 to 2018, which encompassed parts of Hialeah and Northwest Miami-Dade County, Florida.


--- [Perla Tabares Hantman - Ballotpedia] ---
No content


--- [Manny Diaz Jr. is no-show at work - and at debates] ---
Is it that State Rep. Manny Diaz, Jr., is afraid to debate a Democrat? Is he afraid to debate a girl? More likely, Diaz — who has never had to debate for his post — is more afraid that he cannot defend his poor record or his no-show job at a non-credited, for-profit university and his defense of mining companies that have his constituents concerned about their drinking water and homes. Ivette Gonzalez Petkovich went to the Sun Sentinel screening and the Univision Destino 2016 debate for state reps in September. Diaz skipped both. Gonzalez went to the Beta Beta Lambda candidate forum Monday. Diaz didn’t. Could he still be embarrassed about losing that Miami-Dade School Board race in 2010 when he was a public school principal? Or his absentee ballot fraud-tainted win in 2012? Maybe he was too busy as the chief operating officer of Doral “College,” a junior college on a charter high school campus near the Florida Turnpike using public school funds. Nah. He isn’t on campus much. He wasn’t on campus Friday when Ladra called. The most likely reason that Diaz won’t debate is because he doesn’t want to have to defend his track record of pay-to-play politics and conflicts of interest, because Diaz uses his position — not his no-show job, but his elected office — to benefit the charter school industry. Months after he was elected in 2012, Diaz was hired in 2013 by Academica to manage Doral College, which is on the campus of the company’s Doral Academy Preparatory charter school, where he makes almost $112,000 a year today (those are public funds). He then proceeded to repeatedly sponsor and support legislation that makes it easier for charters schools to open and operate. He serves as chairman of the House Education Committee’s Choice and Innovation Subcommittee but Diaz has told reporters he doesn’t see a conflict. “All these pieces of legislation are broad and affects everyone in the charter school industry,” he is quoted as saying. But his paycheck is from Academica, the country’s largest charter school company, so it probably “affects” (read: benefits) them the most. And two years after he was hired, in summer of 2015, Doral College had received at least $600,000 of state charter school funds — even though it is still not accredited and the Miami-Dade School district has refused to accept dual enrollment. Diaz has also used his position to help the limestone miners at the western edge of the county and he probably doesn’t want to hear from all the angry Palm Springs North residents who are sick of the limestone quarry blasting that is destroying their homes and causing them to be concerned about their drinking water. The state rep voted in favor a bill last year that reduced the mitigation fees that limestone miners have to pay for environmental damages from 45 cents per ton to 5 cents per ton. That money would also go to building a water treatment plant should the limestone quarries contaminate our drinking water. Between his campaign account and his PAC — ironically called Better Florida Education — Diaz has taken $14,000, so far, from mining interests, including White Rock Quarries photographed here (more on that later). Many consultants will tell incumbent candidates not to debate unknown challengers when there is barely a chance they will get any traction. But Diaz sits in the most vulnerable state House seat in the 305. Partly because it also includes part of the 954, crossing the line over into Miramar. But mostly because it is more Democratic In 2012, Manny Diaz Jr. won in the primary against former State Rep. and Miami-Dade School Board Member Renier Diaz de la Portilla. But House District 103 went to Barack Obama that November, with almost 55% of the vote vs. Mitt Romney. That means almost 5,000 voters picked the Democrat at the top of the ticket. Ditto for 2014, when the sitting Republican governor only got 48.5% of the vote. Diaz did have a Democratic challenger that year — but only hardly. Benjamin De Yurre was thrown to the wolves by the local party after they recruited him for their No Free Rides campaign, planting candidates against every incumbent Republican in the House. But De Yurre only had $44,000 — only $10K of which he raised himself — against a Diaz warchest of almost $310,000. Gonzalez Petkovich has raised $85,000 all by her lonesome as of Sept. 30th. She’s also had about $70,000 worth of strategic advice and research from the Florida Democratic Party so far. Diaz, meanwhile, has raised $386,000 and has gotten almost $50,000 worth of support from the state party in polling, staff and research. This is one of the most turnable seats in the House this November. Aaaahhhh. Maybe that’s why Diaz won’t show up at debates.
