=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mishari bin Rashid Alafasy - Wikipedia]
On October 25 2008, Alafasy was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. The event was sponsored by the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa as a recognition of Alafasy's role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings. [10] In 2012, he was named the best Quran reciter by About.com magazine as part of the Readers' Choice Awards. [11] In June ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mishari_bin_Rashid_Alafasy

[Mishārī Rāshid al-ʿAfāsī]
On October 25, 2008, Sheikh Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. [1] The event was sponsored by the General Secretary of the League of Arab States Mr. Amr Mousa as a recognition of Sheikh Mishary Alafasy role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings utilizing the modern technology to ...
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/11728269

[Mishary Rashid Alafasy - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 29, 2024 · Awards and recognition On October 25, 2008, Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. The event was sponsored by the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa as a recognition of Mishary Alafasy role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Mishary-Rashid-Alafasy

[Mishari bin Rashid Alafasy - Wikiwand]
On October 25 2008, Alafasy was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. The event was sponsored by the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa as a recognition of Alafasy's role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Mishary_Rashid_Alafasy

[Who is Mishary Rashid Alafasy? Wife, children, and mosque]
May 8, 2023 · They are Alafasy Q and Alafasy TV. On October 25th 2008, Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar in Egypt by the Arab Creativity Union. The event, sponsored by Amr Moussa (the Secretary-General of the Arab League), recognised Mishary's role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings.
URL: https://www.tuko.co.ke/facts-lifehacks/celebrity-biographies/503354-who-mishary-rashid-alafasy-wife-children-mosque/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mishari bin Rashid Alafasy - Wikipedia] ---
Qari Mishary bin Rashid Alafasy (Arabic: مشاري بن راشد العفاسي) is a Kuwaiti qāriʾ (Quran reciter), imam, preacher, and nasheed artist. He studied at the College of the Holy Quran at the Islamic University of Madinah, where he specialized in the ten qira'at (canonical methods of Quranic recitation) and tafsir (Quranic exegesis). 
In addition to his Qur’anic recitation, Alafasy has released several nasheed albums. While he recites performs in Arabic, he has also recorded nasheeds in other languages, including Japanese, Turkish, English and French.
Mishary bin Rashid Alafasy is today one of the most well recognized voices in Nashid and Quran recitations, with his own YouTube channel having 11.6 million subscribers. For instance, 2 of his recorded Nashids have amassed more than 200 million views on YouTube, with 1 recitation of Surah Baqarah amassing nearly 100 million views. Dozens of his Nashids and Quran recitations alike have at least 10 million views on YouTube. His voice is almost always available on any commonly used Quran listening apps. In August 2025, he launched his first official Qur’anic and prayer application, called Alafasy.co.




--- [Mishārī Rāshid al-ʿAfāsī] ---
- Mishārī Rāshid al-ʿAfāsī - Mishary Rashid Al-Afasy الشيخ مشاري بن راشد العفاسي Religion Islam School Sunni Personal Born September 5, 1976 Kuwait City, KuwaitSenior posting Title Imam of the Grand Mosque of Kuwait Religious career Profession Imam, Qari, Munshid Website Official Site Sheikh Mishary bin Rashid Alafasy (Arabic: الشيخ مشاري بن راشد العفاسي; born in Kuwait in September 5, 1976) is a Kuwaiti national, a qari and a munshid. He is the Imam of Masjid Al-Kabir (Grand Mosque (Kuwait)) in Kuwait City, and leads the taraweeh prayers in Ramadan every year. Contents Background Sheikh Mishary studied at the College of the Quran and Islamic Studies at the Islamic University of Madinah and specialized in the ten readings and translations of the Quran. Also, he has been certified by a number of scholars of Quran. He makes frequent appearances on television. Many of his recitations can be also found on YouTube or MukminTV. On March 24, 2007 Sheikh Mishary traveled to the United States of America and visited three mosques: Islamic Center of Irvine in California, Islamic Institute of Orange County in California, and the ICD (Islamic Center of Detroit) in Michigan. The audio tapes of his recitations during his visit to America can be found on his website, and also on YouTube or MukminTV. On October 25, 2008, Sheikh Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt.[1] The event was sponsored by the General Secretary of the League of Arab States Mr. Amr Mousa as a recognition of Sheikh Mishary Alafasy role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings utilizing the modern technology to deliver the peaceful message of Islam. On September 2009, Sheikh Mishary traveled to the ICOI or Islamic Center of Irvine, but had to leave early due to family emergency. There are two Space channels for Sheikh Meshary, The first is Alafasy TV and another more recent channel, Alafasy Q. Samples of his Quranic recitations and nasheeds can be found on the Alafsy official website. In August 2009, Sheikh Alafasy released a nasheed video called "Ramadan" under the Zain label, in which he sings in Arabic, English, and French. A voice-only recording, it was positively received in the Muslim world with television stations broadcasting throughout the month. The video can be viewed through YouTube.[2] During the month of Ramadan, in 2010, Al-Afasy returned to the ICOI to lead the taraweeh prayers. Family He is married, has two daughters and one son. He is referred to by the kunya-- "Abu Rashid". Anasheed Albums - Uyoon Al Afaaee (2004) - Laysa Al Gharib (2005) - Haneeni (2006) - Qalbi Sagheer (2007) - Zekrayat (2008) - Ramadan (2009) - Anaqeed(2010) - Daughters of the Wind (2011) See also - Quran - Qirat - Tajweed References - ^ Kuna - ^ 30 August 2009. "Alafasy – Ramadan FULL VIDEO". YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68oFNRMasxY. Retrieved 2010-03-20. External links - Official Site - Alafasy's Ramadan nasheed, August 2009 - Recitation by Sheikh Mishary Rashed Al-afasy - Tala al Badru Sheikh Mishary Alafasy Nasheed - Alafasy on Qaree.com - Recitation Of Mishari - Sheikh Mishary Rashed Alafasy - Alafasy Albums - Islamway Radio Quran Recitation - SunniPath Library – Quran Recitation by Mishary Rashed al-Efasy - AlafasyTalk - Hi Quality Mp3 of Mishary Rashed al-Efasy - Thealif.com – Listen Quran online Sheikh Muhammad Rifat · Sheikh Ali As-Suwaisy · Sheikh Abdul Basit 'Abd us-Samad · Sheikh Saud Al-Shuraim · Sheikh Mohamed Mahmoud Buheiri · Sheikh Mishary bin Rashid Alafasy · Abdul Rahman Al-Sudais · Muhammad Farooq · Yacine Eldjazairi · Zakaria BadatCategories:- Living people - 1976 births - Islamic University of Madinah alumni - Quran reciters - Kuwaiti imams - 21st-century imams Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Mishary Rashid Alafasy - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Origin Kuwait Name Mishary Alafasy Occupation(s) Qari, Imam, Hafiz Role Imam | Instruments Vocals Nationality Kuwaiti Years active 2000–present | | Birth name Mishary Bin Rashid Alafasy Born September 5, 1976 (age 49) Kuwait City, Kuwait ( 1976-09-05 ) Genres Islamic, Nasheed, Hamd, Na'at, Qirat Education Islamic University of Madinah Similar People Abdul Rahman Al‑Sudais, Saad El Ghamidi, Abdul Basit Abdus Samad, Maher Zain, Maher Al Mueaqly Profiles | Surat An-Nas (The Mankind) | Mishary Rashid Alafasy | مشاري بن راشد العفاسي | سورة الناس Mishary bin Rashid Al-Afasy (in Arabic: مشاري بن راشد العفاسي), born in Kuwait on September 5, 1976, is a imam, preacher, qari and nasheed artist. Contents - Surat An Nas The Mankind Mishary Rashid Alafasy - Mishary rashid alafasy surah mulk the dominion - Life and career - Awards and recognition - References Mishary rashid alafasy surah mulk the dominion Life and career Mishary Alafasy is recognized for his unique voice and style of recitation of the Qur'an. Many reciters have come to imitate his mode of recitation. He studied the Qur'an in the College of the Holy Qur'an at the Islamic University of Madinah (Kingdom Of Saudi Arabia). He memorized the whole Qur'an in two years from 1992 to 1994 and then studied specializing in the ten-fold reading of the Holy Qur'an. He has impressed a number of great reciters of the Qur'an with his recitation. He is the Imam of the Grand Mosque of Kuwait where he leads the Taraweeh prayers every Ramadan. Also, He very often leads the Taraweeh prayers in the UAE and other neighboring countries in the Persian Gulf. In 2007, he visited two mosques in the United States of America:jeffs center of jeffs And N/A Awards and recognition On October 25, 2008, Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar by the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. The event was sponsored by the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa as a recognition of Mishary Alafasy role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings. Al-Afasy was voted by readers to be the Best Qur'an Reciter in the 2012 About.com Readers' Choice Awards.


--- [Mishari bin Rashid Alafasy - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Who is Mishary Rashid Alafasy? Wife, children, and mosque] ---
Who is Mishary Rashid Alafasy? Wife, children, and mosque Mishary Rashid Alafasy is a prolific Imam, excellent Qur'an reciter, and nasheed artist from Kuwait. The subject of this Imam's keen interest was the Holy Quran. The personality, thus, learnt and memorised the Book of Allah in a few years(1992 -1994). His decision to pursue higher education at the Islamic and Quranic University of Madinah, Saudi Arabia, shows his dedication to the Quran. Mishary the Imam has attracted the attention of the bigwigs in the Islamic knowledge field, such as Sheikh Abdur Area Radwan and Sheikh Ibrahim Ali Shehata Al-Samanodi. Additionally, this great Imam manages two popular links of the Quran recitation. Numerous radio stations and TV channels take pride in broadcasting all his highly commendable productions. Mishary Rashid Alafasy’s profile summary Full name | Mishary Rashid Ghareeb Mohammed Rashid Al-Afasy | Alias | Mishari bin Rashed Alafasy | Nickname | Abu Nora, Alafasy | Gender | Male | Age | 46 (as of 2023) | Date of birth | September 5th, 1976 | Zodiac sign | Virgo | Place of birth | Kuwait City, Kuwait | Nationality | Kuwaiti | Religion | Muslim | Ethnicity | Arab | Hair colour | Black | Eye colour | Dark brown | Height in cm | 170 cm | Height in feet | 5 feet 7 inches | Marital status | Married | Children | Two daughters | Father | Rashed Alafasy | University | Islamic University of Madinah (Bachelor's degree in Islamic Studies) | Profession | Quran reciter, Islamic nasheed artist, and Imam | Early life Sheikh Mishary Rashid Ghareeb Mohammed Rashed was born in Kuwait City on September 5th, 1976. His father's name is Rashed Alafasy, but information about his mother and siblings is unavailable on public domains. Mishary has not revealed details regarding his high school education. However, the personality enrolled in the Islamic University of Madinah's College of Quran, where he studied Islamic education and specialised in the ten Qira'at and tafsir of the Noble Quran. Career Mishary Alafasy is a renowned Quran reciter and nasheed artist. Among his most remarkable work is that the Kuwaiti qāriʾ has read the Quran to Sheikh Ibrahim Ali Shahata Al-Samanodei, Sheikh Abdurarea Radwan, and Sheikh Ahmed Abdulaziz Al-Zaiat. Mishary Rashid Alafasy Nasheed has released several albums where he usually sings in Arabic. However, he has also sung some nasheeds in French, English, and Japanese. Some of his popular nasheed songs include: - Ya Taiba - Allah Allah - The Chosen One - Qalu Innaha - Anta Rabbi (English version) - La Ilaha Illallah - Ar-Rahman - Ramadan - Ashraqat Nafsi - Alhamdulillah (English version) - Al-Muallim - Fasabaqna - Peace Be Upon You - Tala'al Badru Alayna - Nasheed Al-Ikhlas - Madad - Adfaita - Mountains of Makkah - The Beloved - Anta Rahmani - Mawlay - The Way of Love - Assalamu Alayka - Ya Nabi Salam Alayka - You Came to Me - Ana Al-Abd - My Lord's Knowledge Suffices Me - Asma Allah Al-Husna The Imam has two space channels that specialise in reciting the Holy Quran. They are Alafasy Q and Alafasy TV. On October 25th 2008, Mishary was awarded the first Arab Creativity Oscar in Egypt by the Arab Creativity Union. The event, sponsored by Amr Moussa(the Secretary-General of the Arab League), recognised Mishary's role in promoting Islamic principles and teachings. In 2012, the icon was voted the Best Quran Reciter in the About.com Readers' Choice Awards. Alafasy is the current Imam of Masjid Al-Kabir (Grand Mosque) in Kuwait City, where he leads the Taraweeh prayers every Ramadan. In addition, he works for the Kuwait Ministry of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs. Mishary Alafasy's wife and children Mishari bin Rashed Alafasy is married as of 2023. Abu Rashid ( father of Rashid), as he is mostly known, is the father to three children, two daughters and a son. However, the personality maintains a private lifestyle and discloses little to no information about his family. Information about Mishary Rashid Alafasy's daughters' names and age is unavailable on public domains as he prefers to keep his personal life out of the limelight. However, Mishari bin Rashed Alafasy has mentioned his family in a few interviews and YouTube channel, expressing his gratitude for their support in his career as a Quran reciter and an Islamic singer. Net worth Mishari has not revealed his income to the public but allegedly has amassed an estimated net worth of $5 million. His primary income is his work as a Quran reciter, YouTube influencer, and nasheed artist. More than 4 million subscribers also view his content on his YouTube channel. The celebrity has again not revealed the brands of cars he owns but allegedly resides in his house in Kuwait. Mishary Bin Rashid Alafasy’s fast facts - Who is Mishary Rashid Alafasy? Mishary Rashid Alafasy is a famous Islamic artist, Quran reciter, and preacher who leads Ramadan prayers as an Imam at Masjid Al-Kabir in Kuwait City. - Is Mishary Rashid Alafasy married? Yes. Mishary Rashid Alafasy is married but has not revealed his wife's name or when he got married to the public domain. - How many children does Mishary Rashid Alafasy have? Mishary Rashid Alafasy allegedly has three kids, a son and two daughters. - In which mosque is Mishary the Imam? Mishary Rashid Alafasy is the imam of Kuwait's grand mosque, Masjid Al-Kabir. - Where is Mishary Alafasy from? Mishary Rashid Alafasy is a Kuwaiti from the Kuwait City - How old is Mishary Rashid? Mishary Rashid Alafasy is 46 years turning 47 on September 5th 2023. He was born on the same date in 1976. - Is Mishari Rashid active on social media? Yes. Mishary Rashid Alafasy has an active Youtube channel and Twitter account. - Where did Mishary Rasheed Alafasy study from? Mishary Rashid Alafasy studied and obtained his bachelor's at the Islamic University of Madinah's College of Qur'an, Saudi Arabia, and specialised in the Ten Qira'at and Tafsir. - How much is Rashid's Alafasy net worth? Mishary Rashid Alafasy's net worth is around $5 million as of 2023. - When was Mishary Rashid Alafasy awarded the Arab Creativity Oscar? Mishary Rashid Alafasy was awarded the Oscar on October 25th 2008, from the Arab Creativity Union in Egypt. Mishary Rashid Alafasy gained international recognition for his great recitations of the Quran and Islamic nasheed songs, which are widely praised for their spiritual impact. He is considered one of the most prominent Islamic personalities worldwide. His work as a reciter and singer continues to promote a deeper understanding of Islamic culture, principles, and values. Tuko.co.ke shared an article about Anes Ayuni Osman. She is a social media entrepreneur and influencer from Malaysia who works in the cosmetics sector. Anes is well-known for bragging about her money on social media and has stirred up the debate by claiming she's the wealthiest kid in Malaysia. She gained fame online as the "pregnant woman gifts a Lamborghini" lady after surprising her husband with a car estimated to be worth $452,000. Source: TUKO.co.ke
