=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Arthur Cayley (1821 - 1895) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
Arthur Cayley's most important work was in developing the algebra of matrices and work in non-euclidean and n-dimensional geometry. Thumbnail of Arthur Cayley
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Cayley/

[Arthur Cayley | British Mathematician & Algebra Pioneer | Britannica]
Jan 22, 2026 · Only gradually did the idea of the matrix as an algebraic entity emerge. The term matrix was introduced by the 19th-century English mathematician James Sylvester, but it was his friend the mathematician Arthur Cayley who developed the algebraic aspect of matrices in two papers in the 1850s.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Arthur-Cayley

[Arthur Cayley – Timeline of Mathematics]
Arthur Cayley (1821 – 1895) was a British mathematician and lawyer. He ... Cayley also developed matrix algebra, and worked on higher-dimensional geometry.
URL: https://mathigon.org/timeline/cayley

[Arthur Cayley: The Mathematician Who Revolutionized Algebra and Geometry]
Arthur Cayley published over 900 mathematical papers, many of which still influence how algebra and geometry are taught. His belief in the beauty of abstract thinking has inspired generations of mathematicians and educators.
URL: https://h2maths.com/blog/arthur-cayley-the-mathematician-who-revolutionized-algebra-and-geometry/

[HISTORY OF MATRICES - math.nie.edu.sg]
James Sylvester (1814-1897), an English mathematician and lawyer, was the first to use the term 'matrix' in 1850. But it was his colleague, Arthur Cayley (1821-1895), another English mathematician and lawyer, who first published an abstract definition of a matrix in his Memoir on the Theory of Matrices in 1858, thus establishing it as a branch ...
URL: https://math.nie.edu.sg/bwjyeo/it/MathsOnline_AM/livemath/the/IT3AMMatricesHistory.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Arthur Cayley (1821 - 1895) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Arthur Cayley Quick Info Richmond, Surrey, England Cambridge, England Biography Arthur Cayley's father Henry Cayley (1768-1850), although from a family who had lived for many generations in Yorkshire, England, worked as a merchant in St Petersburg, Russia. Henry Cayley was married to Maria Antonia Doughty (1794-1875), a daughter of William Doughty. Henry and Maria Cayley had five children: Sophia Cayley (1816-1889), William Henry Cayley (1818-1819), Arthur Cayley the subject of this biography, Charles Bagot Cayley (1823-1883) and Henrietta-Caroline Cayley (1828-1886). As is evident from these dates, their eldest child William Henry died as an infant. The connection with St Petersburg was more than just where Henry Cayley's job had taken him for his father, Arthur Cayley's paternal grandfather, John Cayley (1730-1795), had served as Consul General in St Petersburg. The family, although living in St Petersburg, returned to England for the summers and it was on such a summer visit in 1821 that Arthur Cayley was born. His younger brother Charles Bagot was born in Russia and went on to distinguish himself as translator of Dante and Homer. Arthur spent the first seven years of his life in St Petersburg where he came in contact with several languages, particularly Russian, English and French - the international business language there was French. The family returned to live permanently in England in 1828 and took up residence in a fine house at 29 York Terrace near Regent's Park in London, where Henry, now aged sixty, became a director of the London Assurance Corporation. It was after the family returned to London that Arthur Cayley's sister Henrietta-Caroline was born there. While we are describing the Cayley family we should mention that Sir George Cayley, F.R.S. (1773-1857), a pioneer of aerial navigation and aeronautical engineering, was Arthur Cayley's fourth cousin. There is, however, no evidence of contact between them.Arthur showed great skill in numerical calculations at a private school in Blackheath and, after he moved to King's College School in 1835, at age 14 rather than the usual age of entry of 16, his aptitude for advanced mathematics became apparent. However, it was not only mathematics at which he excelled, for he won prizes in many subjects. In particular, he won the Chemistry Prize in each of his final two years despite not specialising in science. His mathematics teacher advised his parents that Arthur be encouraged to pursue his studies in this area rather than follow his father's wishes to enter the family business as a merchant. In 1838 Arthur began his studies at Trinity College, Cambridge, having George Peacock as tutor in his first year. He was coached by William Hopkins who encouraged him to read papers by continental mathematicians. His favourite mathematical topics were linear transformations and analytical geometry and while still an undergraduate he had three papers published in the newly founded Cambridge Mathematical Journal edited by Duncan Gregory. Cayley graduated as Senior Wrangler in 1842 and won the first Smith's prize. After the examinations, Cayley and his friend Edmund Venables led a reading party of undergraduates to Aberfeldy in Scotland. One of these undergraduates was Francis Galton who described his tutor Cayley (quoted in [11]):- Never was a man whose outer physique so belied his powers as that of Cayley. There was something eerie and uncanny in his ways, that inclined strangers to pronounce him neither to be wholly sane nor gifted with much intelligence, which was the very reverse of the truth ... he appeared so frail as to be incapable of ordinary physical work.While on the trip, Venables wrote to George Stokes in Cambridge (quoted in [11]):- We are surrounded by some of the highest mountains in Scotland, among which the most beautiful is certainly Schiehallion famous in the history of gravitation; I have been trying in vain to induce Cayley to repeat Dr Maskelyne's experiments on its summit and to acquire to himself a never dying fame; but alas he has no desire for notoriety, and has a rooted aversion to experiments and calculations of all kinds: he is now sitting by my side carrying on those dreadful investigations commenced in the Mathematical Journal, in which having exhausted all the letters of the Greek and English alphabets, he is fain to turn his δελτα s tops turvy, and have recourse to the old English.For four years Cayley taught at Cambridge having won a Fellowship and, during this period, he published 28 papers in the Cambridge Mathematical Journal. He worked on a large variety of mathematical topics including algebraic curves and surfaces, elliptic functions, determinants and the theory of integration. For example he published On a theory of determinants in 1843 in which he extended the idea of a 2-dimensional determinant (rows and columns) to multidimensional arrays. In 1844 he began a correspondence with George Boole which proved valuable to both mathematicians. For example he wrote to Boole in 1845 (Boole was teaching at a school in Lincoln, England, at the time):- I wish I could manage a visit to Lincoln, I should so much enjoy talking over some things with you, not to mention the temptation of your Cathedral. I think I must contrive it some time in the next six months, in spite of there being no railway, which one begins to consider oneself entitled to in these days.In 1844 Cayley, along with his friend Edmund Venables, made a trip to the Swiss Alps, also visiting Italy. He took a much more international approach than many of his fellow English mathematicians, publishing papers in the French Journal de Mathématiques Pures et Appliquées and in Crelle's journal Journal für die reine und angewandte Mathematik. Two papers he published in 1845 and 1846 are regarded as laying the foundations for invariant theory. The Cambridge fellowship had a limited tenure, since Cayley was not prepared to take Holy Orders, so he had to find a profession. He chose law and began training in April 1846. While still training to be a lawyer Cayley went to Dublin to hear William Rowan Hamilton lecture on quaternions. He sat next to George Salmon during these lectures and the two were to exchange mathematical ideas over many years. Cayley was a good friend of Hamilton's although the two disagreed as to the importance of the quaternions in the study of geometry. Another of Cayley's friends was James Joseph Sylvester who was also in the legal profession. The two both worked at the courts of Lincoln's Inn in London and they discussed deep mathematical questions during their working day. Others at Lincoln's Inn who were active mathematicians included Hugh Blackburn. He wrote to William Thomson about his work with Cayley:- We have been busy (when we ought to have been drawing acts of parliament and such sublunary matters) in constructing the developable surface generated by the tangent to the curve of intersection of the straight cylinder and sphere of double its radius ...In fact Cayley and Thomson were also good friends. About a year after he began legal training Cayley began a correspondence with Thomas Kirkman. He was a referee of Kirkman's famous paper in the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal in which he shows the existence of what today are called Steiner systems. Cayley wrote in his report:- Kirkman's paper is decidedly interesting and his main result a very elegant one.He was admitted to the bar on 3 May 1849. He spent 14 years as a lawyer but Cayley, although very skilled in conveyancing (his legal speciality), always considered it as a means to make money so that he could pursue mathematics. George Halsted writes [21]:- The law was always drudgery to him. The superabundant verbiage of legal forms was always distasteful to him. He once remarked that "the object of law was to say a thing in the greatest number of words, of mathematics to say it in the fewest."During these 14 years as a lawyer Cayley published about 250 mathematical papers - how many full time mathematicians could compare with the productivity of this 'amateur'? However, Tony Crilly writes [11]:- At Cambridge, and even as a pupil barrister, he could retire to his study. As a newly qualified barrister, with a growing scientific reputation, it became obligatory to adopt a more public persona, a role which did not sit easily with his retiring disposition. Cayley maintained contact with Cambridge and from serving as Senior Examiner at the annual Trinity College examinations, he progressed to the responsibility of being Senior Moderator for the Mathematical Tripos in 1851 and Senior Examiner in 1852.As a result he began to look for academic appointments and, to improve his chances of a professorship he began to increase his already remarkably high rate of publication of mathematics papers. For example, during the years 1853-1856 he averaged ten published papers per year, but as he sought to raise his profile, he published on average thirty papers per year during 1857-1860. He had not been successful in his application in 1856 for the chair of natural philosophy at Marischal College, Aberdeen. He was also interested in the Lowndean Chair of Geometry and Astronomy at Cambridge in 1858 and the chair of astronomy at Glasgow University in the following year. However, he failed to obtain both these and other positions. Perhaps one reason was that, despite a remarkable research record, he had little experience of teaching. In 1863 Cayley was appointed Sadleirian professor of Pure Mathematics at Cambridge. He was successful despite there being other high quality applicants such as Isaac Todhunter, Norman Ferrers, and Edward Routh. This appointment involved a very large decrease in income for Cayley who now had to manage on a salary only a fraction of that which he had earned as a skilled lawyer. However Cayley was very happy to have the chance to devote himself entirely to mathematics. As Sadleirian professor of Pure Mathematics his duties were:- ... to explain and teach the principles of pure mathematics and to apply himself to the advancement of that science.Cayley was to more than fulfil these conditions. However, before we look briefly at his remarkable research achievements, we note that he married in 1863, the year of his appointment as Sadleirian professor. On 8 September he married Susan Moline (1831-1923) from Greenwich, the daughter of Robert Moline. Arthur and Susan Cayley had two children: Henry Cayley (1870-1949) who studied mathematics at Cambridge but decided that he couldn't live up to his father's achievements so became an architect, and Mary Cayley (1872-1950). In 1864 Cayley purchased Garden House, Little St Mary's Lane, in Cambridge. On 8 November 1863 Cayley gave his inaugural lecture Analytical geometry - Introductory lecture. However, his lectures over the following years were often based on his latest researches and students did not find them relevant to the Tripos examination in which they all aimed at getting the greatest possible marks [10]:- Cayley was concerned with mathematics 'per se', while most students wanted competence in a circumscribed syllabus. Any deviation from it was regarded as a waste of time and effort.He published over 900 papers and notes covering nearly every aspect of modern mathematics. The most important of his work is in developing the algebra of matrices, work on non-euclidean geometry and -dimensional geometry. Of his work on matrices, Richard Feldmann writes [17]:- Although the term "matrix" was introduced into mathematical literature by James Joseph Sylvester in 1850, the credit for founding the theory of matrices must be given to Arthur Cayley, since he published the first expository articles on the subject. ... Cayley's introductory paper in matrix theory was written in French and published in a German periodical [in 1855]. ... [He] introduces, although quite sketchily, the ideas of inverse matrix and of matrix multiplication, or "compounding" as Cayley called it. The above basic properties are expanded in a second expository article [of 1858] which also lists many additional properties of matrices.As early as 1849 Cayley had written a paper linking his ideas on permutations with Cauchy's. In 1854 Cayley wrote two papers which are remarkable for the insight they have of abstract groups. At that time the only known groups were permutation groups and even this was a radically new area, yet Cayley defines an abstract group and gives a table to display the group multiplication. He gives the 'Cayley tables' of some special permutation groups but, much more significantly for the introduction of the abstract group concept, he realised that matrices and quaternions were groups. Here is a part of his definition of an abstract group:- ... the symbol 1 will naturally denote an operation which (either generally or in regard to the particular operand) leaves the operand unaltered. .... A symbol xy denotes the compound operation, the performance of which is equivalent to the performance, first of the operation y, and then of the operation x; xy is of course in general different from yx. But the symbols x, y, ... are in general such that x(yz) = (xy)z etc, so that xyz, xyzt, etc. have a definite signification independent of the particular mode of compounding the symbols ...Cayley developed the theory of algebraic invariance, and his development of -dimensional geometry has been applied in physics to the study of the space-time continuum. His work on matrices served as a foundation for quantum mechanics, which was developed by Werner Heisenberg in 1925. Cayley also suggested that euclidean and non-euclidean geometry are special types of geometry. He united projective geometry and metrical geometry which is dependent on sizes of angles and lengths of lines. You can see reviews of Cayley's papers by G B Halsted at THIS LINK. He only published one book, namely An Elementary Treatise on Elliptic Functions (1876). However, he did contribute Chapter 6 to Peter Guthrie Tait's An Elementary Treatise on Quaternions (1890) and published the six-penny booklet, The Principles of Book-Keeping by Double Entry (1894). In 1881 he was invited to give a course of lectures at Johns Hopkins University in the United States, where his friend Sylvester was professor of mathematics. He spent January to May of 1882 at Johns Hopkins University where he lectured on Abelian and Theta Functions. After he returned to England, the Royal Society awarded him their Copley Medal. In 1883 Cayley became President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. In his presidential address Cayley gave an elementary account of his own views of mathematics. His views of geometry were:- It is well known that Euclid's twelfth axiom, even in Playfair's form of it, has been considered as needing demonstration: and that Lobachevsky constructed a perfectly consistent theory, wherein this axiom was assumed not to hold good, or say a system of non-Euclidean plane geometry. My own view is that Euclid's twelfth axiom in Playfair's form of it does not need demonstration, but is part of our experience - the space, that is, which we become acquainted with by experience, but which is the representation lying at the foundation of all external experience. Riemann's view ... is that, having 'in intellectu' a more general notion of space (in fact a notion of non-Euclidean space), we learn by experience that space (the physical space of our experience) is, if not exactly, at least to the highest degree of approximation, Euclidean space. But suppose the physical space of our experience to be thus only approximately Euclidean space, what is the consequence which follows? Not that the propositions of geometry are only approximately true, but that they remain absolutely true in regard to that Euclidean space which has been so long regarded as being the physical space of our experience.Two descriptions of Cayley, both of him as an old man, are interesting. Macfarlane [15] says:- ... I attended a meeting of the Mathematical Society of London. The room was small, and some twelve mathematicians were assembled round a table, among them was Prof Cayley ... At the close of the meeting Cayley gave me a cordial handshake and referred in the kindest terms to my papers which he had read. He was then about 60 years old, considerably bent, and not filling his clothes. What was most remarkable about him was the active glance of his grey eyes and his peculiar boyish smile.Thomas Hirst, one of his friends, wrote:- ... a thin weak-looking individual with a large head and face marked with small-pox: he speaks with difficulty and stutters slightly. He never sits upright on his chair but with his posterior on the very edge he leans one elbow on the seat of the chair and throws the other arm over the back.Here is G B Halsted's tribute [23]:- Cayley, in addition to his wondrous originality, was assuredly the most learned and erudite of mathematicians. Of him in his science it might be said he knew everything, and he was the very last man who ever will know everything. His was a very gentle, sweet character. Sylvester told me he never saw him angry but once, and that was (both were practicing law!) when a messenger broke in on one of their interviews with a mass of legal documents - new business for Cayley. In an access of disgust, Cayley dashed the documents upon the floor.We end by giving this tribute from [8]:- Cayley was Britain's outstanding pure mathematician of the nineteenth century. An algebraist, analyst, and geometer, he was able to link these vast domains of study. More than fifty concepts and theorems of mathematics bear his name. By the end of his life he was revered by mathematicians the world over.In addition to the Copley Medal we mentioned above, we note that Cayley was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1852 and received their Royal Medal in 1859. The London Mathematical Society awarded him their De Morgan Medal in 1884. He was president of the Society 1868-1870. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1865. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1857 and served as editor of the Society's publications from 1859 to 1881. In 1872 he was made an honorary fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. He received honorary degrees from the universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, Dublin, Göttingen, Heidelberg, Leyden and Bologna. A crater on the moon is named for Cayley. He was an honorary foreign member of the French Institute and was elected a fellow of the academies of Berlin, Göttingen, St Petersburg, Milan, Rome, Leyden, Upsala, and Hungary. After a long period of suffering he died at his home, Garden House, Cambridge. He was buried on 2 February 1895 in Mill Road cemetery, Cambridge. Many representatives from foreign countries attended his funeral in addition to many of the leading British scholars. References (show) - J D North, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990). See THIS LINK. - Biography in Encyclopaedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/biography/Arthur-Cayley - E T Bell, Men of Mathematics, Chapter 21 (1986). - A D D Craik, Mr Hopkins' Men: Cambridge Reform and British Mathematics in the 19th Century (Cambridge 2007). - A J Crilly, The mathematics of Arthur Cayley with particular reference to linear algebra (PhD thesis, Middlesex Polytechnic, 1981). - T Crilly, Arthur Cayley. Mathematician laureate of the Victorian age (Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore, MD, 2006). - T Crilly, Galton, Cayley, and the Land across the River, The Mathematical Gazette 91 (520) (2007), 34-38. - A J Crilly, Cayley, Arthur (1821-1895), in Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2004). See THIS LINK. - T Crilly, Arthur Cayley FRS and the four-colour map problem, Notes and Records Roy. Soc. London 59 (3) (2005), 285-304. - T Crilly, Arthur Cayley as Sadleirian Professor: a glimpse of mathematics teaching at 19th-century Cambridge, Historia Math. 26 (2) (1999), 125-160. - T Crilly, The young Arthur Cayley, Notes and Records Roy. Soc. London 52 (2) (1998), 267-282. - T Crilly, Arthur Cayley: the road not taken, The Mathematical Intelligencer 20 (4) (1998), 49-53. - T Crilly, A Victorian mathematician: Arthur Cayley (1821-1895), Mathematical Gazette 79 (485) (1995), 259-262. - T Crilly, The decline of Cayley's invariant theory (1863-1895), Historia Math. 15 (4) (1988), 332-347. - T Crilly, The rise of Cayley's invariant theory (1841-1862), Historia Math. 13 (3) (1986), 241-254. - T Crilly, Cayley's anticipation of a generalised Cayley-Hamilton theorem, Historia Math. 5 (2) (1978), 211-219. - R W Feldmann Jr., Arthur Cayley - founder of matrix theory, The Mathematics Teacher 55 (6) (1962), 482-484. - A R Forsyth, Arthur Cayley, Proc. Royal Soc. London 58 (1895), 1-43. - A R Forsyth, Arthur Cayley, in The Collected Mathematical Papers of Arthur Cayley VIII (1895), ix-xliv - J J Gray, Arthur Cayley (1821-1895), The Mathematical Intelligencer 17 (4) (1995), 62-63. - G B Halsted, Biography. Arthur Cayley, Amer. Math. Monthly 2 (1895), 102-106. - G B Halsted, Review: The Collected Mathematical Papers of Arthur Cayley, by A Cayley, Amer. Math. Monthly 6 (3) (1899), 59-65. - G B Halsted, Review: The Collected Mathematical Papers of Arthur Cayley, by A Cayley, Science, New Series 9 (211) (1899), 59-63. - G B Halsted, Arthur Cayley, Science, New Series 1 (17) (1895), 450-451. - G B Halsted, Arthur Cayley, Amer. Math. Monthly 2 (4) (1895), 102-106. - T Hawkins, Another look at Cayley and the theory of matrices, Arch. Internat. Histoire Sci. 27 (100) (1977), 82-112. - T Hawkins, Cayley's counting problem and the representation of Lie algebras, in Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematician, Berkeley, Calif., 1986 (Amer. Math. Soc., Providence, RI, 1987), 1642-1656. - A Macfarlane, Arthur Cayley, in Lectures on Ten British Mathematicians of the Nineteenth Century (New York, 1916), 64-77. - A Macfarlane, Biography: Arthur Cayley, Amer. Math. Monthly 2 (4) (1895), 99-102. - M Noether, Arthur Cayley, Mathematische Annalen 46 (1895), 462-480. - J North, Arthur Cayley (1821-1895), in Some nineteenth century British scientists (Oxford, 1969), 31-64. - K H Parshall, Towards a history of nineteenth-century invariant theory, in D. E. Rowe and J. McCleary (eds.), The history of modern mathematics: Ideas and their reception (1989), 157-206. - G Salmon, Science worthies: Arthur Cayley, Nature 28 (1883), 481-485. - H Wussing, Arthur Cayley, die Gruppentafel und der abstrakte Gruppenbegriff, Rev. Bras. Hist. Mat. 2007 (1) (2007), 11-17. Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Arthur Cayley: - Papers in the Proceedings and Notes of the EMS - Cayley: Elliptic Functions - Poem for Cayley by Maxwell - G B Halsted reviews Cayley's papers - Cayley's attitude to 'colour' - Royal Astronomical Society obituary - Times obituary - Multiple entries in The Mathematical Gazetteer of the British Isles, - Hirst diary comment - Heinz Klaus Strick biography Honours (show) Honours awarded to Arthur Cayley Cross-references (show) - History Topics: A history of Quantum Mechanics - History Topics: Abstract linear spaces - History Topics: An overview of the history of mathematics - History Topics: Cubic surfaces - History Topics: Extracts from Thomas Hirst's diary - History Topics: Matrices and determinants - History Topics: Non-Euclidean geometry - History Topics: The Edinburgh Mathematical Society 1883-1933 - History Topics: The abstract group concept - History Topics: The development of Ring Theory - History Topics: The development of group theory - History Topics: The four colour theorem - Famous Curves: Bicorn - Famous Curves: Cayley's Sextic - Famous Curves: Watt's Curve - Societies: British Association for the Advancement of Science - Societies: Hungarian Academy - Societies: London Mathematical Society - Societies: National Academy of Sciences - Societies: Netherlands Academy of Sciences - Societies: New York Academy of Sciences - Societies: New York Mathematical Society - Other: 14th January - Other: 1904 ICM - Heidelberg - Other: 1912 ICM - Cambridge - Other: 23rd March - Other: 26th December - Other: 3rd May - Other: 3rd October - Other: Cambridge Colleges - Other: Cambridge Individuals - Other: Cambridge professorships - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (A) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (B) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (C) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (D) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (E) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (F) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (G) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (H) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (I) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (L) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (M) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (N) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (P) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (Q) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (R) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (S) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (T) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (W) - Other: Earliest Uses of Symbols for Matrices and Vectors - Other: Earliest Uses of Symbols of Operation - Other: Edinburgh Mathematical Society Lecturers 1883-2024 - Other: Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh - Other: London Learned Societies - Other: London Scientific Institutions - Other: London individuals A-C - Other: Most popular biographies – 2024 - Other: Other institutions in Cambridge - Other: Popular biographies 2018 - Other: Royal Society obituaries - Other: Royal Society obituaries (chron) - Other: Sci Hi blog links Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update November 2014 Last Update November 2014


--- [Arthur Cayley | British Mathematician & Algebra Pioneer | Britannica] ---
Arthur Cayley - Who was Arthur Cayley? - What subjects did Arthur Cayley study and work in? - What are some of Arthur Cayley’s most important mathematical discoveries? - How did Arthur Cayley contribute to the study of algebra? - What is the Cayley table, and why is it important in mathematics? - How has Arthur Cayley’s work influenced modern mathematics? Arthur Cayley (born August 16, 1821, Richmond, Surrey, England—died January 26, 1895, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire) was an English mathematician and leader of the British school of pure mathematics that emerged in the 19th century. Although Cayley was born in England, his first seven years were spent in St. Petersburg, Russia, where his parents lived in a trading community affiliated with the Muscovy Company. On the family’s permanent return to England in 1828 he was educated at a small private school in Blackheath, followed by the three-year course at King’s College, London. Cayley entered Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1838 and emerged as the champion student of 1842, the “Senior Wrangler” of his year. A fellowship enabled him to stay on at Cambridge, but in 1846 he left the university to study the law at Lincoln’s Inn in London. Cayley practised law in London from 1849 until 1863, while writing more than 300 mathematical papers in his spare time. In recognition of his mathematical work, he was elected to the Royal Society in 1852 and presented with its Royal Medal seven years later. In 1863 he accepted the Sadleirian professorship in mathematics at Cambridge—sacrificing his legal career in order to devote himself full-time to mathematical research. In that same year he married Susan Moline, the daughter of a country banker. Cayley’s manner was diffident but decisive. He was a capable administrator who quietly and effectively discharged his academic duties. He was an early supporter of women’s higher education and steered Newnham College, Cambridge (founded in 1871), during the 1880s. Despite aiding the careers of a few students who naturally took to pure mathematics, Cayley never established a full-fledged research school of mathematics at Cambridge. In mathematics Cayley was an individualist. He handled calculations and symbolic manipulations with formidable skill, guided by a deep intuitive understanding of mathematical theories and their interconnections. His ability to keep abreast of current work while seeing the wider view enabled him to perceive important trends and to make valuable suggestions for further investigation. Cayley made important contributions to the algebraic theory of curves and surfaces, group theory, linear algebra, graph theory, combinatorics, and elliptic functions. He formalized the theory of matrices. Among Cayley’s most important papers were his series of 10 “Memoirs on Quantics” (1854–78). A quantic, known today as an algebraic form, is a polynomial with the same total degree for each term; for example, every term in the following polynomial has a total degree of 3: x3 + 7x2y − 5xy2 + y3. Alongside work produced by his friend James Joseph Sylvester, Cayley’s study of various properties of forms that are unchanged (invariant) under some transformation, such as rotating or translating the coordinate axes, established a branch of algebra known as invariant theory. In geometry Cayley concentrated his attention on analytic geometry, for which he naturally employed invariant theory. For example, he showed that the order of points formed by intersecting lines is always invariant, regardless of any spatial transformation. In 1859 Cayley outlined a notion of distance in projective geometry (a projective metric), and he was one of the first to realize that Euclidean geometry is a special case of projective geometry—an insight that reversed current thinking. Ten years later, Cayley’s projective metric provided a key for understanding the relationship between the various types of non-Euclidean geometries. While Cayley was essentially a pure mathematician, he also pursued mechanics and astronomy. He was active in lunar studies and produced two widely praised reports on dynamics (1857, 1862). Cayley had an extraordinarily prolific career, producing almost a thousand mathematical papers. His habit was to embark on long studies punctuated by rapidly written “bulletins from the front.” Cayley wrote French effortlessly and often published in Continental journals. As a young graduate at Cambridge, he was inspired by the work of the mathematician Karl Jacobi (1804–51), and in 1876 Cayley published his only book, An Elementary Treatise on Elliptic Functions, which drew out this widely studied subject from Jacobi’s point of view. - Died: - January 26, 1895, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire (aged 73) - Awards And Honors: - Copley Medal (1882) - Subjects Of Study: - invariant - matrix - multidimensional space Cayley was awarded numerous honours, including the Copley Medal in 1882 by the Royal Society. At various times he was president of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, the London Mathematical Society, the British Association for the Advancement of Science, and the Royal Astronomical Society.


--- [Arthur Cayley – Timeline of Mathematics] ---
c. 300 BCE: Indian mathematician Pingala writes about zero, binary numbers, Fibonacci numbers, and Pascal’s triangle. c. 260 BCE: Archimedes proves that π is between 3.1429 and 3.1408. c. 235 BCE: Eratosthenes uses a sieve algorithm to quickly find prime numbers. c. 200 BCE: The “Suàn shù shū” (Book on Numbers and Computation) is one of the oldest Chinese texts about mathematics. c. 100 CE: Nicomachus poses the oldest still-unsolved problem in mathematics: whether there are any odd perfect numbers. c. 250 CE: The Mayan culture in Central America flourishes, and uses a base-20 numeral system. c. 830 CE: Al-Khwarizmi publishes “Kitab al-jabr wa al-muqābalah”, the first book about – and the namesake of – Algebra. 1202: Fibonacci’s Liber Abaci introduces Arabic numerals to Europe, as well as simple algebra and the Fibonacci numbers. 1482: First printed edition of Euclid’s Elements 1545: Cardano conceives the idea of complex numbers. 1609: Kepler publishes the “Astronomia nova”, where he explains that planets move on elliptical orbits. 1618: Napier publishes the first references to the number e, in a book on logarithms. 1637: Fermat claims to have proven Fermat’s Last Theorem. 1654: Pascal and Fermat develop the theory of probability. 1684: Leibniz’ publishes the first paper on the calculus. 1687: Newton publishes the Principia Mathematica, containing the laws of gravity and motion, as well as his version of calculus. 1736: Euler solves the Königsberg bridges problem by inventing graph theory. 1761: Lambert proves that π is irrational 1799: Gauss proves the fundamental theorem of algebra. 1829: Bolyai, Gauss and Lobachevsky all invent hyperbolic non-Euclidean geometry. 1832: Galois finds a general condition for solving algebraic equations, thereby founding Group theory and Galois theory. 1858: August Ferdinand Möbius invents the Möbius strip. 1874: Cantor proves that there are different “sizes” of infinity, and that the real numbers are uncountable. 1895: Poincaré’s paper “Analysis Situs” starts modern topology. 1905: Einstein explains the photoelectric effect and Brownian motion, discovers special relativity, and E = mc². 1915: Noether shows that every conservation law in physics corresponds to a symmetry of the universe. 1931: Gödel’s incompleteness theorem establishes that mathematics will always be incomplete. 1939: A group of French mathematicians publish their first book under the pseudonym of Nicolas Bourbaki, on Set theory. 1961: Lorenz discovers chaotic behaviour in weather simulations – the butterfly effect. 1976: Appel and Haken prove the Four Colour Conjecture using a computer. 1977: Adelman, Rivest and Shamir introduce public-key cryptography using prime numbers. 1994: Andrew Wiles proves Fermat’s Last Theorem. 2000: The Clay Mathematics Institute published the seven Millenium Prize Problems. 2003: Perelman proves the Poincaré conjecture, the only one of the seven Millennium problems that have been solved to date. c. 9100 BCE: Oldest known agricultural settlement in Cyprus. c. 2030 BCE: The Sumerian city of Ur is the largest city in the world. c. 3500 BCE: The first vehicles with wheels appear in Mesopotamia and Eastern Europe. c. 3200 BCE: The first writing systems appear in Mesopotamia, Egypt and the Indus Valley. c. 3000 BCE: First evidence of smelting iron ore to make wrought iron. c. 2560 BCE: The Great Pyramid of Giza is built in ancient Egypt, for Pharaoh Khufu. c. 1754 BCE: The Babylonian King Hammurabi Issues the Code of Hammurabi, one of the first legal documents. 776 BCE: The first Olympic Games competition takes place in Greece. 753 BCE: Legendary date of the founding of Rome. c. 563 BCE: Buddha is born in India. His teachings become the foundation of Buddhism. c. 551 BCE: Confucius is born in China. His teachings become the foundation of Confucianism. 490 BCE: Greece stop the Persian invasion at the battle of Marathon. The Classical period begins. 432 BCE: The Acropolis is built in Athens, during its golden age under the rule of Pericles. 399 BCE: Socrates is sentenced to death, refuses to escape, and drinks a cup of poison. 327 BCE: Alexander the Great invades India, having created an enormous empire across Asia. c. 221 BCE: Qin Shi Huang unifies China and starts construction of the Great Wall. 146 BCE: The Roman army destroys Carthage, ending the Third Punic War. 44 BCE: Julius Caesar is murdered. 4 BCE: Jesus of Nazareth is born in Bethlehem, establishing Christianity. 180 CE: The death of Marcus Aurelius ends the Pax Romana, a 200 year period of peace across Europe. 476 CE: Fall of the Roman Empire 570 CE: Muhammad, the founder of Islam, is born in Mecca. c. 641 CE: The Library of Alexandria is destroyed. 800 CE: Charlemagne is crowned as the first Holy Roman Emperor. c. 870 CE: Norse explorers discover and colonise Iceland. 1066: William the Conqueror wins the battle of Hastings and is crowned King of England. 1088: The first university is established in Bologna, Italy. 1096: The First Crusade is launched by Pope Urban II. 1206: Genghis Khan defeats his rivals and receives the title “Universal Ruler of the Mongols”. 1215: King John of England is forced to sign the Magna Carta, restricting his powers. 1266: Marco Polo arrives at the court of Kublai Khan in Beijing. c. 1347: The Black Death kills millions of people across Europe. 1439: Johannes Gutenberg invents the printing press. 1453: The Ottoman Turks conquer Constantinople, marking the fall of the Byzantine empire. 1492: Christopher Columbus arrives in America, starting a new age of European conquest. 1517: Martin Luther publishes his 95 theses, starting the Protestant reformation. 1522: Ferdinand Magellan’s expedition circumnavigates Earth. 1543: Polish scientist Nicolaus Copernicus writes that the Earth revolves around the Sun. 1588: Under Queen Elizabeth I, England defeats the Spanish Armada. 1603: William Shakespeare’s “Hamlet” is performed for the first time. 1633: Galileo Galilei is tried by the Catholic Inquisition for his scientific writings. 1649: King Charles I is tried and beheaded during the English Civil War. 1756: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is born in Austria. c. 1765: James Watt invents a more efficient steam engine, that will power the industrial revolution. 1776: America Issues its Declaration of Independence from Great Britain. 1789: Revolutionaries storm the Bastille in Paris, starting the French Revolution. 1804: Napoleon is crowned emperor of France. 1819: Simón Bolívar defeats Spain at the Battle of Boyacá, leading to the independence of many South American countries. 1837: Samuel Morse and others develop electrical telegraphs. 1859: Charles Darwin publishes “On the Origin of Species”, introducing natural selection. 1865: Abraham Lincoln is assassinated, at the end of the American Civil War. 1876: Alexander Bell invents the telephone. 1903: The Wright Brothers construct the first powered, heavier-than-air aircraft. 1914: Franz Ferdinand of Austria is assassinated in Sarajevo, starting the first World War. 1929: The Black Tuesday stock market crash starts the great depression. 1939: Adolf Hitler invades Poland, starting World War II. 1953: Watson and Crick discover the double-helix structure of DNA. 1957: The Soviet Union launches Sputnik 1, the first man-made satellite into space. 1969: Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin land and walk on the moon. 1975: End of the Vietnam War 1989: Tim Berners-Lee invents the World Wide Web.


--- [Arthur Cayley: The Mathematician Who Revolutionized Algebra and Geometry] ---
When we talk about giants in the world of mathematics, names like Euclid, Newton, and Gauss often come to mind. But one name that deserves just as much recognition—especially from students navigating Singapore’s rigorous maths curriculum—is Arthur Cayley. A pioneering British mathematician from the 19th century, Cayley laid the groundwork for multiple areas of mathematics that are now essential topics in Singapore’s A-Level, IB, and IP mathematics. Understanding Cayley’s work isn’t just a lesson in history—it’s a journey that sheds light on the foundations of many modern maths topics taught in our classrooms today, from matrices to group theory, both of which are featured in the Singapore JC H2 Maths syllabus. Arthur Cayley was born in Richmond, England, in 1821. Despite being educated in England, his early exposure to multiple cultures and languages (due to his family’s business in Russia) helped him develop a structured, logical mind. He excelled at mathematics from a young age, eventually becoming the Senior Wrangler at Trinity College, Cambridge—a title awarded to the top-performing mathematics undergraduate. Even while practicing law, Cayley continued publishing mathematical research, showing his passion was driven by intellectual curiosity rather than a career. His dual career path is inspiring for students and parents who often worry about balancing academics with long-term professional goals—a familiar concern for many Singaporean families. Cayley was one of the first mathematicians to formalize the concept of a matrix. Today, matrices are foundational to fields such as physics, engineering, economics, and, of course, mathematics education. In Singapore, students are introduced to matrices in upper secondary maths and delve deeper during JC H2 maths or IB Maths AA HL. In fact, Cayley introduced what we now call the Cayley-Hamilton Theorem, which states that every square matrix satisfies its own characteristic equation. This concept is part of advanced algebra and a key component in the Singapore JC H2 Further Mathematics track. Cayley is also considered a father of group theory, a field that studies symmetrical structures and transformations. This has profound implications in computer science, physics, and cryptography. In IP Maths and JC H2, group theory is a topic that tests abstract thinking—often a stumbling block for students. At Perfect Solution Education Group, our 1-to-1 maths tuition in Singapore uses visual aids and problem-based learning to help students truly grasp such abstract concepts. Another major area of Cayley’s influence is projective geometry, which extends traditional Euclidean geometry. While not always explicitly covered in school syllabi, projective geometry underpins many real-world applications like computer graphics and 3D modeling. For students pursuing IB Higher Level Mathematics or considering STEM-related university programs, an early exposure through customised Singapore maths tuition can give them a significant advantage. Singapore’s maths education system is world-renowned for its depth and rigour. From Secondary E-Maths and A-Maths to JC H2 Maths, the curriculum emphasizes both computational skills and higher-order thinking. These are the exact skills that Arthur Cayley promoted in his approach to mathematical reasoning. At Perfect Solution Education Group, we draw on such legacies to make advanced topics relatable and accessible. Our IB maths tutors and JC A-Level maths specialists break down complex ideas using structured methods inspired by mathematicians like Cayley. Cayley’s relentless pursuit of mathematical truth teaches us that every learner progresses at their own pace. That’s why we offer personalised 1-to-1 maths tuition in Singapore for all levels: Our experienced tutors customize each lesson to a student’s needs—mirroring the way Cayley worked through problems methodically and deeply. Cayley often corresponded and collaborated with other mathematicians, a practice we encourage through small group tuition classes. These sessions promote peer learning, confidence building, and exposure to different problem-solving techniques—all essential for Singapore maths exams. Arthur Cayley published over 900 mathematical papers, many of which still influence how algebra and geometry are taught. His belief in the beauty of abstract thinking has inspired generations of mathematicians and educators. This is particularly important for students in Singapore, where top schools like Raffles Institution, Hwa Chong, and Anglo-Chinese School push for excellence in mathematics. With Cayley’s logical methods and theoretical insights, students can not only master school exams but also build a strong foundation for university-level mathematics. Even if a student doesn’t plan to become a mathematician, Cayley’s theories have practical relevance: By helping students see these connections, our tutors spark curiosity and motivation—two key ingredients for academic success. In Singapore’s fast-paced academic environment, students are often under immense pressure. Competitive school rankings, demanding syllabi, and tight schedules can make it hard to truly appreciate subjects like maths. That’s why targeted, professional tuition is essential. At Perfect Solution Education Group, we ensure that: Arthur Cayley didn’t just solve equations—he revolutionized how we understand mathematical relationships. His legacy is deeply embedded in the topics students face in Singapore secondary schools and junior colleges today. At Perfect Solution Education Group, we bring this legacy into the classroom, making the abstract accessible, the complex understandable, and the theoretical applicable. Whether you’re preparing for the O-Levels, IB, IP, or JC H2 Maths, let Cayley’s spirit of mathematical excellence guide your journey. Visit www.h2maths.com to learn more about our: Let’s build your success—one equation at a time. WhatsApp Us!


--- [HISTORY OF MATRICES - math.nie.edu.sg] ---
HISTORY OF MATRICES Matrices began in the 2nd century BC with the Chinese although traces could be seen back in the 4th century BC with the Babylonians. The text Nine Chapters of the Mathematical Art written during the Han Dynasty in China gave the first known example of matrix methods. They were used to solve simultaneous linear equations. You have learnt how to solve 2 simultaneous linear equations in 2 unknowns using the elimination method and the substitution method. What about 3 simultaneous linear equations in 3 unknowns? And 4 simultaneous linear equations in 4 unknowns? The usual methods are very tedious when the number of unknowns are big. That is why we learn the matrix method which uses the inverse of a matrix. (Fortunately, computers have an efficient algorithm or method to calculate the inverse of an n x n matrix when n is big. Otherwise, the matrix method will also be tedious.) You will get to learn this method for solving 2 simultaneous linear equations later on. Please note that the website below describes the ancient matrix method used to solve 3 simultaneous linear equations. It is different from the modern approach using the inverse of a matrix. It was only towards the end of the 17th century that much progress was made on the studies of matrices. Carl Gauss (1777-1855), the greatest German mathematician of the 19th century, first used the term 'determinant' in 1801 although its meaning was not exactly the same. It was Augustin Cauchy (1789-1857), a great French mathematician, who used 'determinant' in 1812 in the modern sense of the word. James Sylvester (1814-1897), an English mathematician and lawyer, was the first to use the term 'matrix' in 1850. But it was his colleague, Arthur Cayley (1821-1895), another English mathematician and lawyer, who first published an abstract definition of a matrix in his Memoir on the Theory of Matrices in 1858, thus establishing it as a branch of mathematics. Prior to this, all other mathematicians viewed matrices only in the specific contexts in which they were working; they failed to generalise the idea of matrices. You can find out more about matrices from the following site. If it is outdated, click here to do a search. www-groups.dcs.st-andrews.ac.uk/~history/HistTopics/Matrices_and_determinants.html [Return to Lesson]
