=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Maryon Lane - Wikipedia]
Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in Britain as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maryon_Lane

[Maryon Lane - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 10, 2024 · Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in England as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Maryon-Lane

[Maryon Lane - FAQ - IMDb]
Cyprus When was Maryon Lane born? February 15, 1931 Where was Maryon Lane born? Zululand, South Africa What was Maryon Lane's birth name? Patricia Mills What was Maryon Lane known for? Dance Little Lady, The King's Breakfast, Stars in Your Eyes, and Melodies for You Was Maryon Lane married? She was married to David Blair from 1957 to April 1, 1976.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0485472/faq/

[Maryon Lane - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Maryon Lane (February 15, 1931 - June 13, 2008) was a principal Ballerina with the Royal Ballet[1] Biography Maryon Lane was born Patricia Mills on February 15, 1931 in Zululand, South Africa. She studied in Johannesburg and in 1946 went to the Sadler ' s Wells School in London after winning a scholarship from the Royal Academy of Dancing.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/10521777

[Maryon Lane - Wikiwand]
Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in Britain as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet. [1] Quick facts Born, Died ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Maryon_Lane


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Maryon Lane - Wikipedia] ---
Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in Britain as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet.


--- [Maryon Lane - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Full Name Patricia Mills Education Royal Ballet School Role Ballet Dancer | Name Maryon Lane Occupation Ballet dancer | | Movies Dance, Little Lady, The King's Breakfast Similar People Ninette de Valois, Wendy Toye, Val Guest | Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in England as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet. Contents Early life and training Maryon Lane was born as Patricia Mills in Zululand, a district of Natal province (now KwaZulu-Natal) on the Indian Ocean coast of South Africa. When she was about 13 years old, in 1944, her family took her to Johannesburg, in the northern province of Transvaal (now Gauteng). There she studied with the best ballet teachers in the city, including Marjorie Sturman, a specialist in the Cecchetti method, and Reina Berman, who had been trained by Cecchetti principles before switching to the syllabus of the Royal Academy of Dancing (RAD). In 1946, soon after World War II had ended and peace had returned to Europe, Mills left South Africa and immigrated to England, having won an RAD scholarship to attend the Sadler's Wells Ballet School in London. After only a year's tuition there, she was taken into the corps of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet. It was at this point that she adopted her professional name. The company then included a South African dancer named Patricia Miller, so a name change from Patricia Mills was essential: Maryon Lane, distinctively spelled, was her choice. Professional career The Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet was then a small, young troupe founded by Ninette de Valois to nurture dancers and choreographers after the parent company, the Sadler's Wells Ballet, became resident at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. Owing to the need to replenish the depleted roster of leading dancers, Lane rose rapidly through the ranks. By 1948, at age 17, she had been named a principal dancer and was appearing in prominent roles in works by de Valois and Frederick Ashton, the chief choreographer of the company. Petite, with dark hair, a pretty, oval face, and ideal proportions, she possessed a vivid personality, a firm technique, and an innate musicality. De Valois considered her the type of dancer that was most valuable of all: not a great star but a repertory dancer capable of demi-caractère and dramatic work as well as the purely classical. Throughout her career, Lane was admired for her musicality, attack, and sheer domination of the stage. In repertory works, she displayed great charm in such lighthearted roles as Swanilda in Coppélia, Lise in Ashton's La Fille Mal Gardée, and the title characters in John Cranko's Pineapple Poll and Léonide Massine's Mam'zelle Angot, but she was also effective as the vapid Ballerina in Michel Fokine's Petrushka, as the Betrayed Girl in de Valois's The Rake's Progress, and as the adulterous, runaway Bride in Alfred Rodrigues's Blood Wedding. She was praised for her execution of the notoriously demanding and often unrewarding fairy variations in the prologue to The Sleeping Beauty as well as for her performance as the Princess Aurora, the title role. Her greatest contribution at the time, however, was the part she played in the creation of new ballets, in particular those of the young Kenneth MacMillan. In 1955, MacMillan cast Lane in a principal role in Danses Concertantes, set to the Stravinsky score and with designs by Nicholas Georgiadis, then also at the beginning of a great career. The success of the ballet was such that de Valois immediately transferred it, and Lane, to the main company at the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden. Lane would finish her performing career there as a solo dancer in 1968. Roles created Among the roles that Lane created in new works or productions are the following. Personal and later life Lane was married to her Royal Ballet colleague David Blair, with whom she had twin daughters in 1960. In 1961, Blair was promoted to be Margot Fonteyn's regular partner but was soon overshadowed by the arrival of Rudolf Nureyev in 1962. Both Lane and Blair, along with other leading dancers of the company, sank into relative obscurity in the blaze of publicity about the partnership of Fonteyn and Nureyev. After leaving the Royal Ballet in 1968, Lane occasionally made guest appearances with London Festival Ballet, Ballet Rambert, and her former home company. She found a new vocation, however, as an inspired and inspiring teacher at the London Ballet Center. She then taught at the Royal Ballet and Ballet Rambert schools and with other companies, schools, and seminars. In middle age, after her husband died in 1976, she went to live in Cyprus, a former British stronghold in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. There she settled in the Greek Cypriot town of Kyrenia, a thriving cultural center and popular tourist destination on the northern coast of the island, where she founded her own small school, the Maryon Lane Ballet Academy. After some years of teaching local students, she died in 2008, at age 77.


--- [Maryon Lane - FAQ - IMDb] ---
Maryon Lane(1931-2008) - Actress Maryon Lane was born on 15 February 1931 in Zululand, South Africa. She was an actress, known for Dance Little Lady (1954), The King's Breakfast (1963) and Melodies for You (1967). She was married to David Blair. She died on 13 June 2008 in Cyprus.


--- [Maryon Lane - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Maryon Lane - Maryon Lane Born Patricia Mills February 15, 1931 Zululand, South AfricaDied June 13, 2008 (aged 77) Kyrenia, CyprusOccupation Ballet dancer Spouse David Blair Maryon Lane (February 15, 1931 - June 13, 2008) was a principal Ballerina with the Royal Ballet[1] Biography Maryon Lane was born Patricia Mills on February 15, 1931 in Zululand, South Africa. She studied in Johannesburg and in 1946 went to the Sadler's Wells School in London after winning a scholarship from the Royal Academy of Dancing. In the year afterward, she became a member of Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet, founded by Ninette de Valois. It was at this point in her life that she changed her name to Maryon Lane as the theatre had another South African dancer called Patricia Miller. [1] Aged seventeen, Lane had risen rapidly to become the principal soloist at the theatre, starring in ballets by Frederick Ashton and Ninette De Valois. By 1953, she was given the ballerine role in Coppélia and helped to create new ballets, particularly those of Kenneth MacMillan.[1] In 1953, she was cast by MacMillan in his very first creation, Somnambulism, and in the following year, she was given the lead role of the ugly little clown in Laiderette, set to the music of the Swiss composer Frank Martin.[1] In 1955 she was again the principle in Danses concertantes set to a score by Stravinsky's score. The ballet was immediately successful and De Valois transferred it to Covent Garden.[1] By the time she was starring in Covent Garden, she had married her former Royal Ballet colleague David Blair, who had recently been promoted as Margot Fonteyn's partner. In 1960 their twin daughters were born. In 1968 she left the companybut made guest appearances, also with Festival Ballet and Ballet Rambert. She later worked as a teacher with the Royal Ballet and Ballet Rambert and then with other companies, schools and seminars.[1] Middle aged, she moved to Cyprus and founded her own small school in Kyrenia, inviting former colleagues to visit as guest teachers.[1] Other starring roles Maryon Lane also starred in:[1] - The Sleeping Beauty - La Fille Mal Gardée by Frederick Ashton's as a Lise. - Pineapple Poll by John Cranko - Mam'zelle Angot by Léonide Massine as Mam'zelle Angot. - Petrushka by Mikhail Fokine as a vapid doll. References - ^ a b c d e f g h Clarke, Mary (2008-07-03). "Maryon Lane: Prima ballerina with Sadler's Wells". The Guardian. http://arts.guardian.co.uk/news/obituary/0,,2288656,00.html. Categories:- 1931 births - 2008 deaths - Prima ballerinas - South African ballet dancers - Dancers of The Royal Ballet Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Maryon Lane - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Maryon Lane South African ballet dancer (1931–2008) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads Maryon Lane (15 February 1931 – 13 June 2008) was a South African ballet dancer who became well known in Britain as a ballerina of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet and as a soloist with the Royal Ballet.[1] Remove ads Early life and training Maryon Lane was born as Patricia Mills in Zululand, a district of Natal province (now KwaZulu-Natal) on the Indian Ocean coast of South Africa. When she was about 13 years old, in 1944, her family took her to Johannesburg, in the northern province of Transvaal (now Gauteng). There she studied with the best ballet teachers in the city, including Marjorie Sturman, a specialist in the Cecchetti method, and Reina Berman, who had been trained by the Cecchetti method before switching to the syllabus of the Royal Academy of Dancing (RAD).[2] In 1946, soon after World War II had ended and peace had returned to Europe, Mills left South Africa and emigrated to the UK, having won an RAD scholarship to attend the Sadler's Wells Ballet School in London. After only a year's tuition there, she was taken into the corps of the Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet. It was at this point that she adopted her professional name. The company then included a South African dancer named Patricia Miller, so a name change from Patricia Mills was essential: Maryon Lane, distinctively spelled, was her choice.[3] Remove ads Professional career Summarize Perspective The Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet was then a small, young troupe founded by Ninette de Valois to nurture dancers and choreographers after the parent company, the Sadler's Wells Ballet, became resident at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. Owing to the need to replenish the depleted roster of leading dancers, Lane rose rapidly through the ranks. By 1948, at age 17, she had been named a principal dancer and was appearing in prominent roles in works by de Valois and Frederick Ashton, the chief choreographer of the company. Petite, with dark hair, a pretty, oval face, and ideal proportions, she possessed a vivid personality, a firm technique, and an innate musicality.[4] De Valois considered Lane the type of dancer that was most valuable of all: not a great star but a repertory dancer capable of demi-caractère and dramatic work as well as the purely classical. Throughout her career, Lane was admired for her musicality, attack, and sheer domination of the stage. In repertory works, she displayed great charm in such lighthearted roles as Swanilda in Coppélia, Lise in Ashton's La Fille Mal Gardée, and the title characters in John Cranko's Pineapple Poll and Léonide Massine's Mam'zelle Angot, but she was also effective as the vapid Ballerina in Michel Fokine's Petrushka, as the Betrayed Girl in de Valois's The Rake's Progress, and as the adulterous, runaway Bride in Alfred Rodrigues's Blood Wedding. She was praised for her execution of the notoriously demanding and often unrewarding fairy variations in the prologue to The Sleeping Beauty as well as for her performance as the Princess Aurora, the title role. Her greatest contribution at the time, however, was the part she played in the creation of new ballets, in particular those of the young Kenneth MacMillan. In 1955, MacMillan cast Lane in a principal role in Danses Concertantes, set to the Stravinsky score and with designs by Nicholas Georgiadis, then also at the beginning of a great career. The success of the ballet was such that de Valois immediately transferred it, and Lane, to the main company at the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden. Lane would finish her performing career there as a solo dancer in 1968. Remove ads Roles created Summarize Perspective Among the roles that Lane created in new works or productions are the following.[5] - 1947. Valses Nobles et Sentimentales, choreography by Frederick Ashton, music by Maurice Ravel. Role: principal dancer. - 1950. Trumpet Concerto, choreography by George Balanchine, music by Franz Joseph Haydn. Role: principal dancer, with Svetlana Beriosova, David Blair, Elaine Fifield, David Poole, Pirmin Trecu, and corps de ballet. - 1951. Casse Noisette (The Nutcracker), choreography by Frederick Ashton, music by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. Role: Crystallized Flower, leader of the corps de ballet in "Waltz of the Flowers." - 1953. Somnamabulism, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Stan Kenton, arranged by John Lanchbery. Role: pas de trois with David Poole and Kenneth MacMillan. - 1954. Café des Sports, choreography by Alfred Rodrigues, music by Antony Hopkins. Role: Urchin. - 1954. Laiderette, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Frank Martin. Role: Clown, dancing an extended pas de deux with David Poole and a pas de trois with Poole and Johaar Mosaval; an all-South African cast. - 1955. Danses Concertantes, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Igor Stravinsky. Role: principal dancer. - 1955. House of Birds, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Federico Mompou, arranged by John Lanchbery. Role: pas de trois with David Poole and Doreen Tempest. - 1955. Madame Chrysanthème, choreography by Frederick Ashton, music by Alan Rawsthorne. Role: Madame Chrysanthème, at the New York premiere at the Metropolitan Opera House. - 1956. Noctambules, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Humphrey Searle. Role: Hypnotist's Assistant, with Leslie Edwards as the Hypnotist, Nadia Nerina as the Faded Beauty, Desmond Doyle as the Rich Man, Anya Linden as the Poor Girl, and Brian Shaw as the Soldier. - 1957. The Prince of the Pagodas, choreography by John Cranko, music by Benjamin Britten. Role: Belle Rose. - 1958. Ondine, choreography by Frederick Ashton, music by Hans Werner Henze. Role: dancer in lead couple, with Brian Shaw, of a divertissement with Merle Park, Doreenb Wells, Peter Clegg, Pirmin Trecu, and corps de ballet. - 1958. Agon, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Igor Stravinsky. Role: principal dancer. - 1961. Diversions, choreography by Kenneth MacMillan, music by Arthur Bliss. Role: a pas de quatre with Svetlana Beriosova, Donald MacLeary, and Graham Usher. Remove ads Personal and later life Summarize Perspective This section needs additional citations for verification. (January 2023) | Lane was married to her Royal Ballet colleague David Blair, with whom she had twin daughters in 1960. In 1961, Blair was promoted to be Margot Fonteyn's regular partner but was soon overshadowed by the arrival of Rudolf Nureyev in 1962. Both Lane and Blair, along with other leading dancers of the company, sank into relative obscurity in the blaze of publicity about the partnership of Fonteyn and Nureyev. After leaving the Royal Ballet in 1968, Lane occasionally made guest appearances with London Festival Ballet, Ballet Rambert, and her former home company. She found a new vocation, however, as an inspired and inspiring teacher at the London Ballet Centre. She then taught at the Royal Ballet and Ballet Rambert schools and with other companies, schools and seminars.[6] In middle age, after her husband died in 1976, she went to live in Cyprus, a former British stronghold in the eastern Mediterranean. There she settled in the Greek Cypriot town of Kyrenia, a thriving cultural centre and popular tourist destination on the northern coast of the island, where she founded her own small school, the Maryon Lane Ballet Academy. After some years of teaching local students, she died in 2008, at age 77. Remove ads References Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads
