=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Premier of the Soviet Union - Wikipedia]
The government was empowered to initiate decrees and legislation that were binding throughout the USSR. [1] The longest serving premier in the history of the USSR was Alexei Kosygin, who was appointed head of government after the ousting of Nikita Khrushchev in 1964.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premier_of_the_Soviet_Union

[Alexei Kosygin - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]
Alexei Nikolayevich Kosygin (Russian: Алексе́й Никола́евич Косы́гин, IPA: [ɐlʲɪkˈsʲej nʲɪkɐˈla (j)ɪvʲɪtɕ kɐˈsɨɡʲɪn]; 21 February [O.S. 8 February] 1904 – 18 December 1980) [1] was a Russian political leader and the longest serving Premier of the Soviet Union.
URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexei_Kosygin

[Soviet Union Leaders: A Timeline - HISTORY]
Mar 10, 2022 · The men who ruled the Soviet Union the longest were Joseph Stalin and Leonid Brezhnev, who each served several decades as head of the Communist Party.
URL: https://www.history.com/articles/soviet-union-leaders-order

[Premier of the Soviet Union - Wikiwand]
The government was empowered to initiate decrees and legislation that were binding throughout the USSR. [1] The longest serving premier in the history of the USSR was Alexei Kosygin, who was appointed head of government after the ousting of Nikita Khrushchev in 1964.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Premier_of_the_Soviet_Union

[Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin | Soviet Union Premier & Reforms]
Feb 16, 2026 — Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin was a Soviet statesman and premier of the Soviet Union (1964–80). He was a competent and pragmatic economic ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Aleksey-Nikolayevich-Kosygin


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Premier of the Soviet Union - Wikipedia] ---
The Premier of the Soviet Union (Russian: Глава Правительства СССР) was the head of government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). From 1923 to 1946, the name of the office was Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars, and from 1946 to 1991 its name was Chairman of the Council of Ministers. During the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, its name was briefly Prime Minister and later Chairman of the Committee on the Operational Management of the Soviet Economy. The first Soviet premier was the country's founder and first leader, Vladimir Lenin. After General Secretary of the Communist Party Joseph Stalin rose to power in 1924, the de facto leader of the Soviet Union typically was the party's General Secretary, with Stalin and his successor Nikita Khrushchev also serving as premier. Twelve individuals held the post.




--- [Alexei Kosygin - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia] ---
Alexei Nikolayevich Kosygin (21 February [O.S. 8 February] 1904 – 18 December 1980) was a Soviet statesman who served as the Chairman of the Council of Ministers from 1964 to 1980. Following Khrushchev's removal from power, he briefly led the Soviet Union as part of a triumvirate in the mid-to-late 1960s.
Alexei Kosygin was born in the city of Saint Petersburg in 1904 to a Russian working-class family. During the Russian Civil War, he was conscripted into the labour army. After the Red Army's demobilization in 1921, he worked in Siberia as an industrial manager. In the early 1930s, Kosygin returned to Leningrad and worked his way up the Soviet hierarchy. During the Great Patriotic War (World War II), Kosygin was tasked by the State Defence Committee with moving Soviet industry out of territories soon to be overrun by the German Army. He served as Minister of Finance for a year before becoming Minister of Light Industry (later, Minister of Light Industry and Food). However, in 1952, Stalin removed Kosygin from the Politburo, thereby weakening Kosygin's position within the Soviet hierarchy.
Following Stalin's death in 1953, Kosygin was appointed chairman of the State Planning Committee (Gosplan) on 20 March 1959. Later, in 1960, he was promoted to First Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers. When Nikita Khrushchev was removed from power on 14 October 1964, Kosygin and Leonid Brezhnev succeeded him as Chairman of the Council of Ministers and First Secretary of the Communist Party respectively. He then formed a triumvirate alongside Brezhnev and CC Secretary Nikolai Podgorny that led the Soviet regime in Khrushchev's place.
Upon Khrushchev's ouster, Alexei Kosygin initially emerged as the Soviet Union's head of government in both name and practice. In addition to overseeing the country's economy, he assumed a preeminent role in directing its foreign policy. However, in 1968, the Prague Spring triggered a massive backlash against his reforms, thereby enabling Leonid Brezhnev to eclipse him as the dominant force in the Soviet leadership. Despite having his standing significantly weakened in the Kremlin, Kosygin was permitted by Brezhnev to remain in office until his retirement on 15 October 1980 due to bad health. He died two months later on 18 December 1980.


--- [Soviet Union Leaders: A Timeline - HISTORY] ---
Die Schwarze Dahlie Englands UFO-Akten Bitte aktiviere Javascript in deinem Browser und lade die Seite dann erneut. SEITE NEU LADEN


--- [Premier of the Soviet Union - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Premier of the Soviet Union Head of government of the USSR From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads The Premier of the Soviet Union (Russian: Глава Правительства СССР) was the head of government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). From 1923 to 1946, the name of the office was Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars, and from 1946 to 1991 its name was Chairman of the Council of Ministers. During the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, its name was briefly Prime Minister and later Chairman of the Committee on the Operational Management of the Soviet Economy. The first Soviet premier was the country's founder and first leader, Vladimir Lenin. After General Secretary of the Communist Party Joseph Stalin rose to power in 1924, the de facto leader of the Soviet Union typically was the party's General Secretary, with Stalin and his successor Nikita Khrushchev also serving as premier. Twelve individuals held the post. Remove ads History Summarize Perspective Lenin's First Government was created on 6 July 1923 by the Central Executive Committee with Lenin as its first chairman. The government was empowered to initiate decrees and legislation that were binding throughout the USSR.[1] The longest serving premier in the history of the USSR was Alexei Kosygin, who was appointed head of government after the ousting of Nikita Khrushchev in 1964. However, Kosygin's prestige was weakened when he proposed the economic reform of 1965.[2] In 1991, upon Valentin Pavlov's ascension to the premiership, the Council of Ministers was abolished and replaced with the Cabinet of Ministers. After the August coup of 1991, the majority of the cabinet members endorsed the coup, leading to the Cabinet of Ministers dissolving and being replaced by the Committee on the Operational Management of the Soviet Economy. The government of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic began seizing Soviet ministries in the aftermath of the coup, and by December 1991 the Soviet government had completely lost control of itself and shut down entirely.[3] Under the 1977 Soviet Constitution, the head of government was the leader of the highest executive and administrative organ of state. The head of government was appointed by and accountable to the Supreme Soviet (and its Presidium).[4] The head of government was tasked with resolving all state administrative duties within the jurisdiction of the USSR to the degree which were not the responsibility of the Supreme Soviet or its Presidium. The head of government managed the national economy, formulated the five-year plans and ensured socio-cultural development.[5] It functioned as the most influential office of government and nominally the most influential office until the establishment of the Office of the President of the Soviet Union in 1990. Vladimir Lenin died in office of natural causes, as well as Joseph Stalin, and three premiers resigned—Alexei Kosygin, Nikolai Tikhonov and Ivan Silayev. Another three were concurrently party leader and head of government (Lenin, Stalin and Nikita Khrushchev). The one who spent the shortest time in office was Ivan Silayev, at 119 days. Kosygin spent the longest time in office—16 years. Remove ads List of officeholders Remove ads See also - Bibliography of the Russian Revolution and Civil War § Government - Bibliography of Stalinism and the Soviet Union § Government - Bibliography of the Post Stalinist Soviet Union § Government - Deputy Premier of the Soviet Union - First Deputy Premier of the Soviet Union - List of heads of state of the Soviet Union - List of leaders of the Soviet Union Notes - These numbers are not official. - On August 19, 1991, due to the illness of Valentin Pavlov, the duties of the head of the government of the USSR were assigned to First Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Doguzhiyev. References Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads


--- [Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin | Soviet Union Premier & Reforms] ---
Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin - Who was Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin? - What position did Kosygin hold in the Soviet Union? - When did Kosygin serve as the premier of the Soviet Union? - What were some main goals or reforms Kosygin tried to introduce? - How were Kosygin’s economic reforms different from earlier Soviet policies? - What challenges or opposition did Kosygin face during his leadership? Aleksey Nikolayevich Kosygin (born Feb. 20, 1904, St. Petersburg, Russia—died Dec. 18, 1980, Moscow, Russia, U.S.S.R.) was a Soviet statesman and premier of the Soviet Union (1964–80). He was a competent and pragmatic economic administrator rather than an ideologue. Kosygin joined the Red Army as a volunteer in 1919 and served in the Russian Civil War. Following the war he received some vocational training, joined the Communist Party (1927), and occupied several positions in the Leningrad (now St. Petersburg) city government and in industry. By 1939 he had been appointed people’s commissar for the textile industry as well as a member of the party’s Central Committee. In 1940 he became deputy chairman of the Council of People’s Commissars (called Council of Ministers after 1946); he held that post, which gave him special responsibility for consumer industries, until 1953. During World War II Kosygin was premier of the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic. He next served as minister of finance (1948) and as minister for light industry (1948–53). The party elected him to the Politburo in 1948. Kosygin was demoted to an alternate member when the Politburo was reorganized as the Presidium in October 1952. After Joseph Stalin died (March 1953), Kosygin lost his position on the party Presidium completely and was temporarily removed from his government post. He was reinstated as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers in December 1953 but was removed once again in December 1956. Although he continued from 1953 to hold a variety of ministerial and economic posts, Kosygin did not regain his former authority until June 1957, when, as a supporter of Nikita S. Khrushchev, he was readmitted to the party Presidium as an alternate member and was reinstated as deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers. Kosygin subsequently worked closely with Khrushchev on economic matters and served as chairman of Gosplan, the Soviet economic planning agency, from March 1959 to May 1960. He was then elected to full membership on the party Presidium and a first deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers (May 1960). In October 1964 Kosygin replaced Khrushchev as chairman of the Council of Ministers, becoming the effective head of the Soviet government, although his role in Khrushchev’s ouster is obscure. In 1965 Kosygin introduced comprehensive reforms that were designed to modernize the Soviet economy. He sought to improve the planning process, to encourage greater initiative on the part of plant managers, and to rely more on profit as a means of improving economic efficiency. When he announced in 1966 the new economic five-year plan to govern the Soviet Union from 1966 to 1970, Kosygin adhered to Khrushchev’s policy of placing relatively heavy emphasis on the production of consumer goods, and he altered Khrushchev’s objectives only by setting more realistic target dates for various economic projects. - Born: - Feb. 20, 1904, St. Petersburg, Russia - Title / Office: - prime minister (1964-1980), Soviet Union - Political Affiliation: - Communist Party of the Soviet Union In the late 1960s and early 1970s Kosygin shared the power of governing with Leonid I. Brezhnev and Nikolay V. Podgorny. He apparently exercised a moderating influence on the other Soviet leaders. The government retreated from fully implementing Kosygin’s reforms, but his sensible management style helped preserve efficiency and discipline in the Soviet economy into the 1970s. Kosygin’s emphasis on economic decentralization and on expanding light industry placed him increasingly at odds with Brezhnev. From the early 1970s Kosygin governed in a system of collective leadership with Brezhnev, first secretary of the Communist Party, and Podgorny, chairman of the Presidium. Kosygin’s role, as well as Podgorny’s, diminished, however, as Brezhnev’s authority increased. On Oct. 23, 1980, Brezhnev, by then chairman of the Presidium and, in effect, president of the Soviet Union, announced Kosygin’s retirement because of ill health.
