=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tina Turner - learningforallsd.com]
Tina Turner has praised Britain’s Princess Beatrice for helping her come to terms with her dyslexia. The legendary diva struggled at school before finding her calling in music, and was left feeling ashamed as she didn’t know why she could not keep up with her fellow pupils...
URL: https://www.learningforallsd.com/post/tina-turner

[List of people with dyslexia]
Fielding's dyslexia was only diagnosed after he revealed his learning difficulties ... "Tina Turner: 'Princess Beatrice saved me from dyslexia shame'". Tickets to ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_people_with_dyslexia

[Tina Turner's History Of Health Problems Explained]
May 25, 2023 · Tina Turner had been dealing with several health issues long before her 2023 death. The singer had an extensive medical history dating back to the 1970s.
URL: https://www.nickiswift.com/1296429/tina-turner-history-health-problems/

[A Look At All Of Tina Turner's Devastating Health Struggles]
May 29, 2023 · Tina Turner has tragically died at the age of 83, and unfortunately she endured many different, very serious health struggles before her passing.
URL: https://www.thelist.com/1295840/all-tina-turners-devastating-health-struggles/

[Tina Turner Credits Princess Beatrice for Her Coming to Terms With Dyslexia]
Dec 13, 2018 · AceShowbiz - Tina Turner has praised Britain's Princess Beatrice for helping her come to terms with her dyslexia. The legendary diva struggled at school before finding her calling in music, and ...
URL: https://www.aceshowbiz.com/news/view/00130002.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tina Turner - learningforallsd.com] ---
Tina Turner - LFA - Jun 1, 2023 - 1 min read Tina Turner has praised Britain’s Princess Beatrice for helping her come to terms with her dyslexia. The legendary diva struggled at school before finding her calling in music, and was left feeling ashamed as she didn’t know why she could not keep up with her fellow pupils... #dyslexiaawareness #dyslexia #readingskills #writingskills #dyslexiasupport #auditoryprocessing #visualprocessing #onlinetutoring #multisensorylearning #dyslexiatutoring #cognition #CognitiveTherapy #cognitivedevelopment


--- [List of people with dyslexia] ---
The following is a list of some notable people who have dyslexia. See also the People with dyslexia category for a longer list.


--- [Tina Turner's History Of Health Problems Explained] ---
Tina Turner's History Of Health Problems Explained Tina Turner, the music industry behemoth whose career spanned over six decades, died on May 24. In a statement relayed to CNN, her family said, "Tina Turner, the 'Queen of Rock & Roll' has died peacefully today at the age of 83 after a long illness in her home in Küsnacht near Zurich, Switzerland. With her, the world loses a music legend and a role model." Fans of Turner are privy to the fact that the legendary musician struggled with various illnesses throughout her career, especially in her latter years. Her medical issues apparently began back in 1978, when she was diagnosed with hypertension but thought nothing of it. "I considered high blood pressure my normal," she told the European Kidney Health Alliance in an interview. "Hence, I didn't really try to control it. In 1985 a doctor gave me a prescription for pills of which I was supposed to take one a day, and that was it. I didn't give it any more thought." Come 2009, Turner experienced a stroke as a result of the mismanagement of her high blood pressure and found out that her kidneys had been failing. Stroke hit her again in 2013, shortly after her wedding to husband Erwin Bach. She also dealt with a kidney transplant, intestinal cancer that spread to her colon, high blood pressure, vertigo, and more. To Turner, it was all one big "medical adventure." Tina Turner dealt with stroke, kidney failure, and intestinal cancer Tina Turner has always been open about her health concerns. In her memoir titled "My Love Story," the singer shared that her body had been betraying her so much that she found it tough to stay on top of her illnesses. "I've been on such a wild roller-coaster in the four years since my wedding that even I have difficulty keeping my medical catastrophes straight," she wrote (via Today). Turner's health began spiraling in 2013 after experiencing a stroke. Three years later, she was diagnosed with intestinal cancer that she had a hard time wrapping her head around. "I had no pain but my body was reacting from cancer in the colon," she wrote (via Us Weekly). "It sounds like it continues and goes on and it does." While doctors were able to remove the cancer from her intestines via surgery, her medical issues were far from over. She also confessed to developing a "fatal dislike" for mainstream medication, leading her to seek "homeopathic" alternatives (via Page Six). She was "feeling better after a while," but it ultimately led to total kidney failure. Her husband Erwin Bach came to the rescue and donated a kidney to save her life. "The consequences of my ignorance ended up being a matter of life and death," she penned. "At this terrible moment of guilt and self-recrimination, I learned something wonderful about Erwin ... He was loyal, kind, and understanding — and determined to help me get through all this alive" (via People). Tina Turner considered medically-assisted suicide During one of her lowest points, Tina Turner admitted to looking into resorting to assisted suicide since it was legal in Switzerland, where she lived before she passed. In "My Love Story," she wrote that she had joined Exit International, an organization that helps people interested in voluntary euthanasia. "It wasn't my idea of life. But the toxins in my body had started taking over. I couldn't eat," she shared (via the Daily Mail). "I was surviving, but not living. I began to think about death. If my kidneys were going, and it was time for me to die, I could accept that, it was okay. When it's time, it's really time." It was then that Erwin Bach turned her life around by offering to donate his kidneys. "He said he didn't want another woman, or another life," Turner added. "Then he shocked me. He said that he wanted to give me one of his kidneys." Turner was never one to be afraid of the idea of death. Speaking with Oprah in 2013, ten years before her demise, she shared that she had lived a full life and had no regrets. "I'm curious to know what it's [death] about. Nobody can tell you because nobody has come back. I'm not excited to die, but I don't regret it when it's time for me," she said. "I've done what I came here to do ... I have a great man in my life now. I have a great husband and I'm happy."


--- [A Look At All Of Tina Turner's Devastating Health Struggles] ---
A Look At All Of Tina Turner's Devastating Health Struggles Music legend and rock-and-roll icon Tina Turner has died at the age of 83. According to a statement on her Instagram, Turner passed away leaving behind a legacy that touched fans and inspired a new generation of musicians. After battling illness for many years, the performer died at her home in Küsnacht, Switzerland, located outside of Zurich. Although the cause of death is yet to be released, Turner has faced a string of health issues through the years, causing her to take a step back from the spotlight. However, in 2021, she released a documentary entitled "Tina," which was an introspective look at her life and career. The film discussed many topics, namely Tina Turner's kids, her experiences with abuse throughout her life, and the thoughts she had on her career and legacy. While the documentary offered an intimate viewing into the life and opinions held by Turner, she was always vocal about her health, speaking about her difficulties in her book, "My Love Story." Tina Turner struggled with her health for years Her physical ailments began about a decade ago, when she suffered a stroke in 2013. The health scare occurred three weeks after her wedding to Erwin Bach, a former record executive. It left her with physical difficulties, necessitating that she learn how to walk once more. Three years later, Turner was diagnosed with intestinal cancer. Simultaneously, her hypertension left her with kidney failure, which had to be rectified with surgery. A year later, in 2017, Turner received a kidney transplant from her husband, she revealed in her memoir. Although the series of health crises was a fright to deal with, Turner said that Bach always kept her spirits up. People reports that Turner wrote in her book about how "Erwin always radiated confidence, optimism, and joie de vivre," going on to say that "with his help, [she] tried to keep calm." While her physical issues began 10 years before her untimely death, the PTSD due to her abusive relationship with Ike Turner plagued her for years. In the first episode of her titular documentary, called "Ike and Tina," Ms. Turner declared that her life was not a good one before announcing that she was departing from the public eye. In 1956, Turner first met Ike, a musician at a nightclub. The fated meeting would transform their dynamic from a musical duo into an abusive relationship filled with physical, emotional, psychological, and financial abuse at the hands of Ike. A look at Tina Turner's legacy At a mere 17, Turner began a relationship with Ike, who was 25; it ate up 16 years of her life, and at one point, Turner considered suicide to be her only way out. On July 4, 1976, while many Americans were celebrating independence, Turner finally broke free from Ike, fleeing their hotel once he fell asleep and running across the freeway. Armed with a Mobil card and 36 cents, Turner didn't look back. By breaking away, Turner was able to create her own career as a solo artist, one that has paid off tremendously. The "What's Love Got to Do with It" singer has had a decades-long solo career, marked by multiple Grammy wins, a Lifetime Achievement Award, and her double induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame — in 1991, alongside her ex-husband Ike, and again in 2021 as a solo artist. The Queen of Rock & Roll, who was known for her electric energy, raspy voice, and magnetic stage presence, has inspired multiple musicians across a range of genres. Artists from Beyoncé to Mick Jagger and Janet Jackson to Keith Urban have been impacted by Turner's revolutionary artistry, singing, and performance style. A fury of teased hair, toned legs, and dazzling outfits, she commanded the stage, holding the audience captive with her every move. An incomparable legend, Tina Turner's raw talent and enthralling stamina will surely be missed.


--- [Tina Turner Credits Princess Beatrice for Her Coming to Terms With Dyslexia] ---
AceShowbiz - Tina Turner has praised Britain's Princess Beatrice for helping her come to terms with her dyslexia. The legendary diva struggled at school before finding her calling in music, and was left feeling ashamed as she didn't know why she could not keep up with her fellow pupils. The 79-year-old realised she had dyslexia after the royal went public with her diagnosis in 2005 and spoke about her learning difficulties in interviews. "I finally got over my lifelong sense of inadequacy when Princess Beatrice, Queen Elizabeth's granddaughter discussed her dyslexia in a number of interviews," Tina writes in a passage of her new memoir, reports the Daily Star. "She said she wasn't able to count and had a hard time learning how to read. She could have been describing me. For the first time, I truly understood what my problem was and felt better about myself." Describing the trauma of her time at school, the Simply the Best singer explains, "I was not a good student, so I lived in fear of being called to the blackboard. One day a teacher told me to come up with the answer to an arithmetic problem. Panic set in. Not that I would have said the word 'embarrassed' - I would have said 'ashamed' - ashamed that I was standing in front of all the other kids, failing with numbers blurring in front of my eyes because of tears." In addition to her memoir, Tina's life is also the basis for a musical, which opened to rave reviews in London in April, and transfers to Broadway next year.
