=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hutter Prize - Wikipedia]
The prize was announced on August 6, 2006[1] with a smaller text file:enwik8consisting of 100MB. On February 21, 2020 both the dataset and the total prize pool were expanded by a factor of 10: fromenwik8of 100MB to enwik9 of 1GB; from 50,000 to 500,000euros.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hutter_Prize

[Firebase | Google's Mobile and Web App Development Platform]
Build AI-powered experiences into your apps and accelerate app development with managed infrastructure, powered by Google Cloud, so you can focusonwhatmatters most.
URL: https://firebase.google.com/

[New York Post –BreakingNews, Top Headlines, Photos & Videos]
Your source forbreakingnews, photos, and videos about New York, sports, business, entertainment, opinion, real estate, culture, fashion, and more.Mark Zuckerberg Buys Newly Built $170 Million ‘Billionaire Bunker’ Mansion inRecord-BreakingDeal.
URL: https://nypost.com/

[A list of the best Roblox song IDs and music codes for February 2026.]
AlgenoyAlexander.2:16. Play on Roblox.
URL: https://rocodes.gg/music

[MLB.com | The Official Site of Major League Baseball]
Enter your picks in the 2026 World Baseball Classic Bracket Challenge and you couldwincash, MLB tickets and more.Star Watch. Clement sets new single postseason hitsrecord. Ohtani is the Greatest (Sho)man.
URL: https://www.mlb.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hutter Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Hutter Prize is a cash prize funded by Marcus Hutter which rewards data compression improvements on a specific 1 GB English text file, with the goal of encouraging research in artificial intelligence (AI).
Launched in 2006, the prize awards 5,000 euros for each one percent improvement (with 500,000 euros total funding) in the compressed size of the file enwik9, which is the larger of two files used in the Large Text Compression Benchmark (LTCB); enwik9 consists of the first 109 bytes of a specific version of English Wikipedia. The ongoing competition is organized by Hutter, Matt Mahoney, and Jim Bowery.
The prize was announced on August 6, 2006 with a smaller text file: enwik8 consisting of 100MB. On February 21, 2020 both the dataset and the total prize pool were expanded by a factor of 10: from enwik8 of 100MB to enwik9 of 1GB; from 50,000 to 500,000 euros.




--- [Firebase | Google's Mobile and Web App Development Platform] ---
Stay organized with collections Save and categorize content based on your preferences. Get $300 to unlock all Firebase features Create a Billing Account and instantly get $300 in credit to spend on services you need to build and run AI apps, including hosting, scaling storage, running event triggers, and more. Make your app the best it can be with Firebase and generative AI Prototype, build & run modern, AI-powered experiences users love with Firebase, a platform designed to support you throughout your app development lifecycle. Backed by Google and trusted by millions of businesses around the world. Get to market quickly and securely with products that can scale globally Build AI-powered experiences into your apps and accelerate app development with managed infrastructure, powered by Google Cloud, so you can focus on what matters most. Development teams around the world—including NPR, Halfbrick, Duolingo, and Venmo—use Firebase to build and ship their modern apps. Common use cases Use Firebase products together to solve complex app development challenges and optimize your app experience. Learn how to personalize your onboarding flow, grow user engagement, or add new functionality with Firebase. [[["Easy to understand","easyToUnderstand","thumb-up"],["Solved my problem","solvedMyProblem","thumb-up"],["Other","otherUp","thumb-up"]],[["Missing the information I need","missingTheInformationINeed","thumb-down"],["Too complicated / too many steps","tooComplicatedTooManySteps","thumb-down"],["Out of date","outOfDate","thumb-down"],["Samples / code issue","samplesCodeIssue","thumb-down"],["Other","otherDown","thumb-down"]],[],[],[]]


--- [New York Post –BreakingNews, Top Headlines, Photos & Videos] ---
Advertisement Advertisement Common sense. No nonsense. Advertisement The best of everything US News - California Dem chair’s demand backfires as low-polling gov candidates refuse to exit race - Gavin Newsom blasted for unleashing murderers, rapists on California streets: retired judge - Gavin Newsom turns on Israel with blistering attack on ‘apartheid’ state - Terrifying video shows Louisiana utility worker dangling from fiery bucket truck before falling Metro - Supreme Court rules NJ Transit can be sued over injuries in out-of-state courts - Outrage as child sex offender running for city council brazenly holds press conference outside Fresno elementary school, cops called - California beach city goes to war with the rich as it pushes vote on taxing second homes - First-ever dual Applebee’s and IHOP restaurant to debut in New York this month business - Bessent says Trump’s new 15% global tariff starts this week - Goldman Sachs lawyer Kathy Ruemmler set to face Congress over Jeffrey Epstein ties - Popular pizza chain closing hundreds of restaurants in major shake up - OpenAI’s Sam Altman fends off ‘painful’ backlash to Pentagon AI deal — including chalk-wielding activists Wellness - The rare birth defect that made Hailey Bieber’s pregnancy a ‘surprise’ - My experience with GLP-1 has been a slow burn and I’m more than OK with that - Seniors over 80 who eat specific diet may be less likely to reach 100 years old - Moms who do this before and during pregnancy have babies who develop faster shopping - Lifetime access to Babbel is over 60% off for a limited time - Finally, a 3-minute red light therapy mask for people who have better things to do - Found: Amazon’s most-sold vitamin C serum and dark spot corrector is on sale for only $20 - Why these makeup remover wipes that more than 100,000 shoppers purchased are next on my list Real estate - Princess Lee Radziwill’s final NYC home finds a new owner after last asking $13.5M - A $30M mint-condition NYC residence lists for the first time ever — complete with ‘His’ and ‘Hers’ living rooms - Rufus Wainwright will relist his wonderfully colorful Los Angeles home for $2.3M - Record share of Calif. homes were inherited last year — more than double national average tech - Here’s how much Apple is raising prices on MacBooks - Everything Apple fans hate about the new $600 iPhone 17e: ‘That’s robbery’ - This groundbreaking AI tool will dress you in a few clicks — is it the future of fashion, or just an alarming bot takeover? - These moms believe beauty filters drove their teen daughters to social media addiction — and to their death media - Minnesota sues to block Trump administration’s withholding of $243 million in Medicaid funds - Longtime Trump critic credits him for restoring ‘credibility of US deterrence’ as Iran strikes unfold - Local CBS reporter brushes off directive to downplay pro-Trump rally after Iran strikes - Paramount Skydance, Warner Bros. staffers fear devastating layoffs following merger: reports Horoscopes Pisces There is a major luck factor working in your favor at the moment and what occurs over the next 24 to 48 hours will bring a smile to your face and maybe some extra cash to your pocket. This is very much your time of year, so enjoy it. Trending Now Now on Page Six - Sofía Vergara indulges in dessert and more star snaps - Mystery behind gloves found in search for Nancy Guthrie finally solved - Emily Ratajkowski handles Paris Fashion Week wardrobe malfunction like a pro - Benny Blanco and Selena Gomez detail how they cope with her bipolar disorder and ‘moments of mania’ - ‘Better Call Saul’ star quits Amazon job, already on the hunt for next non-acting gig Trending in Sports - Aryna Sabalenka reveals engagement with massive ring: ‘No idea this was happening’ - Rams acquiring All-Pro corner Trent McDuffie from Chiefs in blockbuster trade - Pete Alonso impresses Orioles with unusual move in spring training - John Harbaugh's first Giants training camp will be out of state - Giants releasing Bobby Okereke to free up $9 million in salary cap space Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders - Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - The Dodgers Post Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify - Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify


--- [A list of the best Roblox song IDs and music codes for February 2026.] ---
Roblox Music IDs Find the best and most popular Roblox song IDs with our searchable list. All of our Roblox music codes are checked regularly, so you don't have to waste your time searching. Games Genres rockjapaneseindieafro popelectronichip hoprapchristian & gospelbaile funkpopdirty southchildrens musicr&bsoulfitness & workoutbreakbeatnew wavealternativedancetrance Top Song IDs Latest Song IDs Song Code Genre Length 90129203071000 4:32 98041390540285 3:53 130405038544807 4:06 90802799029974 2:35 102293431791897 3:37


--- [MLB.com | The Official Site of Major League Baseball] ---
FREE on MLB.TV: Ceddanne Rafaela, Xander Bogaerts and Ozzie Albies lead the Dutch in an exhibition vs. the Rays. Latest News - World Baseball Classic preview: Top stars, predictions & more for every pool - Team USA tweaks lineup for Rockies clash (3 ET, Free on MLB.TV) - Predicting the World Baseball Classic champion, MVP and more - Reds ace Greene to have MRI on stiff right elbow - Full schedule, how to watch 2026 World Baseball Classic - A full breakdown of the top prospects at the World Baseball Classic - A complete guide to watching MLB.TV in 2026 - Could Lombard impress any more? How about a HR off the Cy runner-up? - Remember some guys: Presenting the 2026 all-non-roster invitee team Popular Star Watch Prospects ICYMI Latest News - World Baseball Classic preview: Top stars, predictions & more for every pool - Team USA tweaks lineup for Rockies clash (3 ET, Free on MLB.TV) - Predicting the World Baseball Classic champion, MVP and more - Reds ace Greene to have MRI on stiff right elbow - Full schedule, how to watch 2026 World Baseball Classic - A full breakdown of the top prospects at the World Baseball Classic - A complete guide to watching MLB.TV in 2026 - Could Lombard impress any more? How about a HR off the Cy runner-up? - Remember some guys: Presenting the 2026 all-non-roster invitee team
