=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2014 North Miami mayoral special election - Wikipedia]
The 2014 North Miami mayoral special election took place on November 4, 2014, following a primary election on August 26, 2014. Following her victory in the 2013 election, Mayor Lucie Tondreau was indicted by federal prosecutors on charges relating to a $8 million mortgage fraud scheme. [1] She was later suspended from office by Governor Rick Scott, [2] and a special election was held to fill ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_North_Miami_mayoral_special_election

[2014 North Miami mayoral special election - WIKI 2]
The 2014 North Miami mayoral special election took place on November 4, 2014, to elect the mayor of North Miami, Florida. The election was officially nonpartisan. The election was held after the arrest of Mayor Lucie Tonderou earlier in 2014. Smith Joseph was elected after a runoff election between him and former mayor Kevin Burns. The first round was held on August 26, 2014.
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/2014_North_Miami_mayoral_special_election

[1 race, 5 choices for North Miami City Council election]
May 4, 2015 — The candidates are Alix Desulme, a former city clerk; Jessica Alston, a retired guidance counselor; Carline Paul, a political consultant; Roseline Philippe, an ...
URL: https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/community/miami-dade/north-miami/article20190579.html

[North Miami To Hold Special Election For Mayor's Office]
May 28, 2014 · The election will be held on August 26, 2014 with a run-off election November 4, 2014. While the charter for the city requires an election within 60-days of the suspension.
URL: https://www.cbsnews.com/miami/news/north-miami-to-hold-special-election-for-mayors-office/

[N. Miami Calls For Special Mayoral Election - NBC 6 South Florida]
May 27, 2014 · With the city’s current mayor suspended by Governor Rick Scott, the North Miami City Council voted 4-0 to call for a special election to fill the mayor’s office.
URL: https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/local/n-miami-calls-for-special-mayoral-election/68319/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2014 North Miami mayoral special election - Wikipedia] ---
The 2014 North Miami mayoral special election took place on November 4, 2014, following a primary election on August 26, 2014. Following her victory in the 2013 election, Mayor Lucie Tondreau was indicted by federal prosecutors on charges relating to a $8 million mortgage fraud scheme. She was later suspended from office by Governor Rick Scott, and a special election was held to fill the remainder of her term in office.
Three candidates ran in the special election: former Mayor Kevin Burns, former City Councilman Jean Marcellus, and physician Smith Joseph, all of whom unsuccessfully ran in the previous mayoral election. In the primary election, Burns placed first, winning 45 percent of the vote, and advanced to a runoff election against Joseph, who placed second with 38 percent of vote. Joseph ultimately defeated Burns, 54–46 percent, and served out the remainder of Tondreau's term.


--- [2014 North Miami mayoral special election - WIKI 2] ---
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250816134808/https://wiki2.org/en/2014_North_Miami_mayoral_special_election To install click the Add extension button. That's it. The source code for the WIKI 2 extension is being checked by specialists of the Mozilla Foundation, Google, and Apple. You could also do it yourself at any point in time. How to transfigure the Wikipedia Would you like Wikipedia to always look as professional and up-to-date? We have created a browser extension. It will enhance any encyclopedic page you visit with the magic of the WIKI 2 technology. Try it — you can delete it anytime. Install in 5 seconds Yep, but later 4,5 Kelly Slayton Congratulations on this excellent venture… what a great idea! Alexander Grigorievskiy I use WIKI 2 every day and almost forgot how the original Wikipedia looks like. Live Statistics English Articles Improved in 24 Hours Added in 24 Hours What we do. Every page goes through several hundred of perfecting techniques; in live mode. Quite the same Wikipedia. Just better. The 2014 North Miami mayoral special election took place on November 4, 2014, to elect the mayor of North Miami, Florida. The election was officially nonpartisan. The election was held after the arrest of Mayor Lucie Tonderou earlier in 2014.[1]Smith Joseph was elected after a runoff election between him and former mayor Kevin Burns.[2] The first round was held on August 26, 2014. YouTube Encyclopedic 1/2 Views: 2 858 149 541 ISSUES: Interview with Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez What Makes Italian High-Speed Rail So Special? Transcription Candidates Smith Joseph - Owner of a medical practice (Democratic Party) Kevin Burns - Mayor from 2005 to 2009 (Democratic Party) Jean Rodrique Marcellus - District 3 Councilman 2009 to 2013 (Democratic Party)


--- [1 race, 5 choices for North Miami City Council election] ---
1 race, 5 choices for North Miami City Council election As North Miami voters gear up for the May 12 election, all eyes will be on the city’s west side, with the District 4 City Council seat as the only race. After potential candidates for both the mayor and city clerk positions were taken out of contention, all that remains are the five candidates to replace Councilwoman Marie Steril. The candidates are Alix Desulme, a former city clerk; Jessica Alston, a retired guidance counselor; Carline Paul, a political consultant; Roseline Philippe, an education professor and consultant; and Beverly Hilton, a private school administrator. The candidates participated in a forum last month to discuss their views. Since then, some of them have dealt with criticism from employees, residents and from each other. Carline Paul has faced questions over her residency in the city and about another property she owns just outside North Miami. Property records show that she purchased a home at 1348 NE 147th St. in 1988, under the name Carline Jean, and collected two homestead exemptions last year. Paul said that while she did still live there as of January 2014 and qualified for the exemption, she moved last March to the address she used in her filing documents at 12215 NW Miami Ct. The North Miami home is owned by Marie Louisville, and Paul said she lives there as her tenant. “I decided to move in the city of North Miami because I thought I could make a difference in the lives of residents in District 4,” Paul said. Meanwhile, Paul has accused opponents Alix Desulme and Roseline Philippe of spreading false information and trying to confuse Haitian-American voters. Residents at last month’s forum questioned Paul about her connection to Noucelie Josna, the self-professed “queen of absentee ballots,” and her alleged involvement in absentee-ballot fraud. Paul and Josna were part of a civil complaint filed by the late John Patrick Julien in 2012 after he lost the race for House District 107 to Rep. Barbara Watson. Julien eventually dropped the challenge for the seat after a two-month battle in the courts. Desulme denied Paul’s allegations and said he wanted to focus on his campaign. He said Paul was trying to paint herself as a victim. “I don’t have the time or the energy for these baseless accusations,” Desulme said. “I have my message, I have my supporters; that’s what I’m focused on.” Philippe said all she told her volunteers to do was share information about her platform. “I don’t know what she’s talking about,” Philippe said. “I’ve got too many things to worry about in my campaign to worry about that.” Beverly Hilton, who ran for the seat in 2011, was recently accused of not paying her staff members at The Challenger School on time. The accusations were first revealed in a WPLG Local 10 story after workers said they hadn’t been paid for three weeks. Hilton said a delay in funding from the Early Learning Coalition and the state were to blame and that she’d thought things would be resolved by May 1. “Their staff told me they processed our payment,” Hilton said. “Since the 19th of April, I thought we would get our payment.” Despite the accusations, the candidates all agree that voter turnout is important. With only one wide-open race, they hope residents will still show up to the polls. “Local elections are vital to our community, even more than national elections,” Hilton said. “They cannot complain if they do not vote.” Election Day is May 12 and a potential runoff would take place June 2. Early voting continues through May 10. The candidates Here’s a look at the candidates for City Council Seat 4: Jessica Alston Age: 61 Occupation: Retired Miami-Dade Public Schools guidance counselor Education: City University of New York Queens College, Bachelor’s in education and African studies, Master’s in school and mental health education Years lived in North Miami: 24 years Public service : Vice president of Sunkist Grove Neighborhood Association Alix Desulme Age: 37 Occupation: Adjunct professor at St. Thomas and union educational courses, second-grade teacher at Ruth K. Broad Bay Harbor K-8 Center Education: St. Thomas University Bachelor’s in organizational leadership Master’s in special education; Florida Atlantic University Master’s in education leadership Years lived in North Miami: 18 years Public service: North Miami City Clerk, Miami-Dade Democratic Party Committee member; chairperson/founder of Young Minorities in Action; former member of the North Miami Youth Opportunity Board Beverly Hilton Age: 58 Occupation: Director/CEO of The Challenger School in North Miami Education: Queens High School, Jamaica Years lived in North Miami: 20 years Public service: Founder of Alhambra Heights Homeowners Association Carline Paul Age: 56 Occupation: Community outreach liasion at North Miami Adult Education Center Education: City University of New York Queens College Years lived in North Miami: 1 Public service: Executive director, Haitian American Youth of Tomorrow Roseline Philippe Age: 55 Occupation: President and CEO of 21st Century Global Consulting and an adjunct professor at Miami Dade College Education: Bachelor’s degree from Brooklyn College, Master’s degree from Nova Southeastern University Years lived in North Miami: 22 years Public service: Member, Haitian-American Democratic Club of Greater Miami; President, Haiti Cherie Heritage Foundation This story was originally published May 4, 2015 at 2:18 PM.


--- [North Miami To Hold Special Election For Mayor's Office] ---
North Miami To Hold Special Election For Mayor's Office NORTH MIAMI (CBSMiami) – North Miami leaders voted Tuesday night to hold a special election to find a mayor to replace suspended mayor Lucie Tondreau. The election will be held on August 26, 2014 with a run-off election November 4, 2014. While the charter for the city requires an election within 60-days of the suspension. However, the date is not feasible for Miami-Dade County, said city officials. Therefore, the election will be held in August. Tondreau was suspended after being indicted as part of a mortgage fraud investigation. Vice Mayor Philippe Bien-Aime was appointed acting mayor after Gov. Rick Scott formally suspended Tondreau from public office. Tondreau, who is charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud affecting a financial institution, was ordered to surrender her passport. She is out of jail on bond. Tondreau, along with Karl Oreste of Miramar, Okechukwu Josiah Odunna of Lauderdale Lakes and Kelly Augustin of North Miami are accused of fraudulently obtaining loans on 20 South Florida properties between 2005 and 2008. According to the indictment Oreste, president of KMC Mortgage Corporation of Florida, found residential properties for sale in South Florida and then he and Tondreau hosted several radio showsin which they advertised the services offered by KMC Mortgage. Federal prosecutors claim Oreste and Tondreau recruited and paid some of the listeners who answered those ads to pose as potential buyers of the properties. Augustin, an employee of KMC Mortgage, also recruited straw borrowers. The indictment alleges that Oreste and Odunna prepared loan applications on behalf of the straw borrowers. Odunna was president of O.J. Odunna, P.A. and Direct Title and Escrow Services. These loan applications included false information relating to employment, wages, assets, according to the indictment. The loan applications were then submitted to various mortgage lenders. Once the loan applications were approved, the lenders wired loan funds to O.J. Odunna, P.A., Direct Title for closing. At closing, a portion of loan proceeds were disbursed to Oreste through his corporation, JR Investment and Mortgage Corporation, or other bank accounts controlled by him. In some instances, a portion of the loan proceeds was diverted to accounts controlled by Odunna. Investigators claim Oreste also used part of the loan proceeds to pay recruiters – such as Tondreau and Augustin – and the straw borrowers. Oreste also transferred a substantial portion of the funds to bank accounts of LTO Investment Corporation, a corporation controlled by Tondreau, according to the indictment. Tondreau allegedly used those funds to make payments on the fraudulently obtained mortgages in order to maintain the loans, and to conceal the fraud. She also used a portion of the funds for her own personal use and benefit. If convicted, each defendant faces a maximum term of 30 years in prison. RELATED CONTENT:


--- [N. Miami Calls For Special Mayoral Election - NBC 6 South Florida] ---
With the city’s current mayor suspended by Governor Rick Scott, the North Miami City Council voted 4-0 to call for a special election to fill the mayor’s office. The ordinance passed Tuesday night would set up a special election on August 26, 2014 with a run-off, if needed, scheduled for November 4, 2014. The Miami-Dade County Elections Department said the August date was the earliest available election date. The new ordinance also set the qualifying period for the special mayoral election as June 23rd to noon on June 27th. The ordinance was needed after Mayor Lucie Tondreau was indicted on May 15 by a federal grand jury on one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and four counts of wire fraud affecting a financial institution. Tondreau was suspended from office by Governor Scott on May 20.
