=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Laurie Anderson - The Waters Reglitterized - Exhibitions - Sean Kelly ...]
Oct 22, 2005 · Sean Kelly is delighted to announce a major new installation by Laurie Anderson. The opening of the exhibition will take place on Friday, September 16th from 6pm until 8pm. The artist will be present. The Waters Reglitterized is a kind of diary of dreams and their literal recreation as works of art. In her new work Anderson uses the language of dreams to investigate the dream itself. The ...
URL: https://www.skny.com/exhibitions/laurie-anderson

[About - Laurie Anderson]
As a visual artist, Anderson is represented by the Sean Kelly Gallery in New York where her exhibition, The Waters Reglitterized, opened in September 2005. In 2008, the Museum of Modern Art acquired her "Self-Playing Violin" which was featured in the "Making Music" exhibition in Fall 2008.
URL: https://laurieanderson.com/about/

[Laurie Anderson at Sean Kelly New York - Artmap.com]
LAURIE ANDERSON The Waters Reglitterized September 17 - October 22, 2005 On the Road "For the last year I've been on the road with a solo performance. Every night another theater, another hotel room. As the months went on my dreams became wild, relentless. Headless singing squirrels, vast spaces, bizarre clatterings, I began to draw these dreams literally out of self defense. The more I ...
URL: https://artmap.com/seankelly/exhibition/laurie-anderson-2005

[Laurie Anderson]
In 2005, her exhibition The Waters Reglitterized opened at the Sean Kelly Gallery in New York City. ... In March 2013, an exhibition of Anderson's work entitled ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurie_Anderson

[Laurie Anderson - Columbia University]
It continued to tour internationally from 2003 to 2005. As a visual artist, Anderson is represented by the Sean Kelly Gallery in New York where her exhibition, The Waters Reglitterized, opened in September 2005.
URL: https://www.columbia.edu/cu/arts/varchive/anderson/index.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Laurie Anderson - The Waters Reglitterized - Exhibitions - Sean Kelly ...] ---
Sean Kelly is delighted to announce a major new installation by Laurie Anderson. The opening of the exhibition will take place on Friday, September 16th from 6pm until 8pm. The artist will be present. The Waters Reglitterized is a kind of diary of dreams and their literal recreation as works of art. In her new work Anderson uses the language of dreams to investigate the dream itself. The resulting pieces - drawings, prints and high definition video take her work in theater and imagery to an astounding new level. Laurie Anderson is one of the seminal artists of our time. Her work includes a wide variety of media: performance, film, music, installation, writing, photography and sculpture. Over the past thirty years, she has created a number of groundbreaking works ranging from spoken word performances to elaborate multimedia events. Anderson's recorded work is currently released by Nonesuch Records and since 1983 includes eight releases by Warner Records. She has published six books, produced numerous videos, films, radio pieces and original scores for dance and film. In 2003, The Musée Art Contemporain of Lyon in France produced a touring retrospective of her work, entitled The Record of the Time: Sound in the Work of Laurie Anderson. It has been presented in Lyon, Milan, Düsseldorf, Dublin and is currently on view in Tokyo through October 2005. Anderson's work is included in many major public collections worldwide. Recent work includes her 2002-2004 artist-in-residence at NASA, participation on the team that created the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, a series of audio-visual installations for World Expo 2005 in Aichi and a series of programs for French radio. The film she made for Expo 05, Hidden Inside Mountains, is featured in several current film festivals, among them Locarno, Edinburgh, Telluride and Toronto.


--- [About - Laurie Anderson] ---
Laurie Anderson is one of America’s most reknowned – and daring – creative pioneers. Known primarily for her multimedia presentations, she has cast herself in roles as varied as visual artist, composer, poet, photographer, filmmaker, electronics whiz, vocalist, and instrumentalist. O Superman launched Anderson’s recording career in 1980, rising to number two on the British pop charts and subsequently appearing on Big Science, the first of her seven albums on the Warner Brothers label. Other record releases include Mister Heartbreak, United States Live, Strange Angels, Bright Red, and the soundtrack to her feature film Home of the Brave. A deluxe box set of her Warner Brothers output, Talk Normal, was released in the fall of 2000 on Rhino/Warner Archives. In 2001, Anderson released her first record for Nonesuch Records, entitled Life on a String, which was followed by Live in New York, recorded at Town Hall in New York City in September 2001, and released in May 2002. Anderson has toured the United States and internationally numerous times with shows ranging from simple spoken word performances to elaborate multimedia events. Major works include United States I-V (1983), Empty Places (1990), The Nerve Bible (1995), and Songs and Stories for Moby Dick, a multimedia stage performance based on the novel by Herman Melville. Songs and Stories for Moby Dick toured internationally throughout 1999 and 2000. In the fall of 2001, Anderson toured the United States and Europe with a band, performing music from Life on a String. She has also presented many solo works, including Happiness, which premiered in 2001 and toured internationally through Spring 2003. Anderson has published six books. Text from Anderson’s solo performances appears in the book Extreme Exposure, edited by Jo Bonney. Anderson has also written the entry for New York for the Encyclopedia Brittanica and in 2006, Edition 7L published Anderson’s book of dream drawings entitled “Night Life”. Laurie Anderson’s visual work has been presented in major museums throughout the United States and Europe. In 2003, The Musée Art Contemporain of Lyon in France produced a touring retrospective of her work, entitled The Record of the Time: Sound in the Work of Laurie Anderson. This retrospective included installation, audio, instruments, video and art objects and spans Anderson’s career from the 1970’s to her most current works. It continued to tour internationally from 2003 to 2005. As a visual artist, Anderson is represented by the Sean Kelly Gallery in New York where her exhibition, The Waters Reglitterized, opened in September 2005. In 2008, the Museum of Modern Art acquired her “Self-Playing Violin” which was featured in the “Making Music” exhibition in Fall 2008. As a composer, Anderson has contributed music to films by Wim Wenders and Jonathan Demme; dance pieces by Bill T. Jones, Trisha Brown, Molissa Fenley, and a score for Robert LePage’s theater production, Far Side of the Moon. She has created pieces for National Public Radio, The BBC, and Expo ‘92 in Seville. In 1997 she curated the two-week Meltdown Festival at Royal Festival Hall in London. Her most recent orchestra work Songs for Amelia Earhart. premiered at Carnegie Hall in February 2000 performed by the American Composers Orchestra and later toured Europe with the Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra conducted by Dennis Russell Davies. The piece was performed as part of the Groningen Festival honoring Laurie Anderson in Fall 2008 with the Noord Nederlands Orkest. Recognized worldwide as a groundbreaking leader in the use of technology in the arts, Anderson collaborated with Interval Research Corporation, a research and development laboratory founded by Paul Allen and David Liddle, in the exploration of new creative tools, including the Talking Stick. She created the introduction sequence for the first segment of the PBS special Art 21, a series about Art in the 21st century. Her awards include the 2001 Tenco Prize for Songwriting in San Remo, Italy and the 2001 Deutsche Schallplatten prize for Life On A String as well as grants from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts. She recently collaborated with Bran Ferren of Applied Minds, Inc to create an artwork that was displayed in “The Third Mind” exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum in New York in Winter 2009. In 2002, Anderson was appointed the first artist-in-residence of NASA which culminated in her 2004 touring solo performance “The End of the Moon”. Recent projects include a series of audio-visual installations and a high definition film, “Hidden Inside Mountains”, created for World Expo 2005 in Aichi, Japan. In 2007 she received the prestigious Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize for her outstanding contribution to the arts. In 2008 she completed a two-year worldwide tour of her performance piece, “Homeland”, which was released as an album on Nonesuch Records in June, 2010. Anderson’s solo performance “Delusion” debuted at the Vancouver Cultural Olympiad in February, 2010 and toured internationally throughout 2011. In 2010 a retrospective of her visual and installation work opened in Sao Paulo, Brazil and later traveled to Rio de Janeiro. In 2011 her exhibition of all new work titled “Forty-Nine Days In the Bardo” opened at the Fabric Workshop and Museum in Philadelphia. That same year she was awarded with the Pratt Institute’s Honorary Legends Award. In January of 2012 Anderson was the artist-in-residence at the High Performance Rodeo in Calgary, Alberta where she developed her latest solo performance titled “Dirtday!” Her exhibition “Boat” curated by Vito Schnabel opened in May of 2012. She has recently finished residencies at both CAP in UCLA in Los Angeles and EMPAC in Troy New York. Her film Heart of a Dog was chosen as an official selection of the 2015 Venice and Toronto Film Festivals. In the same year, her exhibition Habeas Corpus opened at the Park Avenue Armory to wide critical acclaim and in 2016 she was the recipient of Yoko Ono’s Courage Award for the Arts for that project. Anderson lives in New York City.


--- [Laurie Anderson at Sean Kelly New York - Artmap.com] ---
Laurie Anderson 17 Sep - 22 Oct 2005 LAURIE ANDERSON The Waters Reglitterized September 17 - October 22, 2005 On the Road “For the last year I’ve been on the road with a solo performance. Every night another theater, another hotel room. As the months went on my dreams became wild, relentless. Headless singing squirrels, vast spaces, bizarre clatterings, I began to draw these dreams literally out of self defense. The more I drew, the more they began to look like story boards. So I made a movie.” Sean Kelly is delighted to announce a major new installation by Laurie Anderson. The opening of the exhibition will take place on Friday, September 16th from 6pm until 8pm. The artist will be present. The Waters Reglitterized is a kind of diary of dreams and their literal recreation as works of art. In her new work Anderson uses the language of dreams to investigate the dream itself. The resulting pieces - drawings, prints and high definition video take her work in theater and imagery to an astounding new level. Laurie Anderson is one of the seminal artists of our time. Her work includes a wide variety of media: performance, film, music, installation, writing, photography and sculpture. Over the past thirty years, she has created a number of groundbreaking works ranging from spoken word performances to elaborate multimedia events. Anderson’s recorded work is currently released by Nonesuch Records and since 1983 includes eight releases by Warner Records. She has published six books, produced numerous videos, films, radio pieces and original scores for dance and film. In 2003, The Musée Art Contemporain of Lyon in France produced a touring retrospective of her work, entitled The Record of the Time: Sound in the Work of Laurie Anderson. It has been presented in Lyon, Milan, Düsseldorf, Dublin and is currently on view in Tokyo through October 2005. Anderson’s work is included in many major public collections worldwide. Recent work includes her 2002-2004 artist-in-residence at NASA, participation on the team that created the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, a series of audio-visual installations for World Expo 2005 in Aichi and a series of programs for French radio. The film she made for Expo 05, Hidden Inside Mountains, is featured in several current film festivals, among them Locarno, Edinburgh, Telluride and Toronto. QUALIA, by Sony Electronics has generously provided the QUALIA 004 front projector in support of this exhibition. For more information on QUALIA please go to www.sony.com/QUALIA Stewart Filmscreen has generously provided the screen in support of this exhibition. For more information on Stewart Filmscreen please go to www.stewartfilm.com Please contact Amy Gotzler at the gallery (212.239.1181) or amy@skny.com for more information. Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday from 11am © LAURIE ANDERSON The Fox 2005 High Definition video installation dimensions variable The Waters Reglitterized September 17 - October 22, 2005 On the Road “For the last year I’ve been on the road with a solo performance. Every night another theater, another hotel room. As the months went on my dreams became wild, relentless. Headless singing squirrels, vast spaces, bizarre clatterings, I began to draw these dreams literally out of self defense. The more I drew, the more they began to look like story boards. So I made a movie.” Sean Kelly is delighted to announce a major new installation by Laurie Anderson. The opening of the exhibition will take place on Friday, September 16th from 6pm until 8pm. The artist will be present. The Waters Reglitterized is a kind of diary of dreams and their literal recreation as works of art. In her new work Anderson uses the language of dreams to investigate the dream itself. The resulting pieces - drawings, prints and high definition video take her work in theater and imagery to an astounding new level. Laurie Anderson is one of the seminal artists of our time. Her work includes a wide variety of media: performance, film, music, installation, writing, photography and sculpture. Over the past thirty years, she has created a number of groundbreaking works ranging from spoken word performances to elaborate multimedia events. Anderson’s recorded work is currently released by Nonesuch Records and since 1983 includes eight releases by Warner Records. She has published six books, produced numerous videos, films, radio pieces and original scores for dance and film. In 2003, The Musée Art Contemporain of Lyon in France produced a touring retrospective of her work, entitled The Record of the Time: Sound in the Work of Laurie Anderson. It has been presented in Lyon, Milan, Düsseldorf, Dublin and is currently on view in Tokyo through October 2005. Anderson’s work is included in many major public collections worldwide. Recent work includes her 2002-2004 artist-in-residence at NASA, participation on the team that created the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, a series of audio-visual installations for World Expo 2005 in Aichi and a series of programs for French radio. The film she made for Expo 05, Hidden Inside Mountains, is featured in several current film festivals, among them Locarno, Edinburgh, Telluride and Toronto. QUALIA, by Sony Electronics has generously provided the QUALIA 004 front projector in support of this exhibition. For more information on QUALIA please go to www.sony.com/QUALIA Stewart Filmscreen has generously provided the screen in support of this exhibition. For more information on Stewart Filmscreen please go to www.stewartfilm.com Please contact Amy Gotzler at the gallery (212.239.1181) or amy@skny.com for more information. Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday from 11am © LAURIE ANDERSON The Fox 2005 High Definition video installation dimensions variable


--- [Laurie Anderson] ---
Laura Phillips "Laurie" Anderson (born June 5, 1947) is an American avant-garde artist, musician and filmmaker whose work encompasses performance art, pop music, and multimedia projects. Initially trained in violin and sculpting, Anderson pursued a variety of performance art projects in New York City during the 1970s, focusing particularly on language, technology, and visual imagery. She achieved unexpected commercial success when her song "O Superman" reached number two on the UK singles chart in 1981.
Anderson's debut studio album Big Science was released in 1982 and has since been followed by a number of studio and live albums. She starred in and directed the 1986 concert film Home of the Brave. Anderson's creative output has also included theatrical and documentary works, voice acting, art installations, and a CD-ROM. She is a pioneer in electronic music and has invented several musical devices that she has used in her recordings and performance art shows.




--- [Laurie Anderson - Columbia University] ---
Laurie Anderson is one of today's premier performance artists. Known primarily for her multimedia presentations she has cast herself in roles as varied as visual artist, composer, poet, photographer, filmmaker, electronics whiz, vocalist, and instrumentalist. O Superman launched Anderson's recording career in 1980, rising to number two on the British pop charts and subsequently appearing on Big Science, the first of her seven albums on the Warner Brothers label. Other record releases include Mister Heartbreak, United States Live, Strange Angels, Bright Red, and the soundtrack to her feature film Home of the Brave. A deluxe box set of her Warner Brothers output, Talk Normal, was released in the fall of 2000 on Rhino/Warner Archives. In 2001, Anderson released her first record for Nonesuch Records, entitled Life on a String, which was followed by Live in New York, recorded at Town Hall in New York City in September 2001, and released in May 2002. Anderson has toured the United States and internationally numerous times with shows ranging from simple spoken word performances to elaborate multimedia events. Major works include United States I-V (1983), Empty Places (1990), The Nerve Bible (1995), and Songs and Stories for Moby Dick, a multimedia stage performance based on the novel by Herman Melville. Songs and Stories for Moby Dick toured internationally throughout 1999 and 2000. In the fall of 2001, Anderson toured the United States and Europe with a band, performing music from Life on a String. She has also presented many solo works, including Happiness, which premiered in 2001 and toured internationally through Spring 2003. Anderson has published six books. Text from Anderson's solo performances appears in the book Extreme Exposure, edited by Jo Bonney. She has also written the entry for New York for the Encyclopedia Brittanica. Laurie Anderson's visual work has been presented in major museums throughout the United States and Europe. In 2003, The Musée Art Contemporain of Lyon in France produced a touring retrospective of her work, entitled The Record of the Time: Sound in the Work of Laurie Anderson. This retrospective included installation, audio, instruments, video and art objects and spans Anderson's career from the 1970's to her most current works. It continued to tour internationally from 2003 to 2005. As a visual artist, Anderson is represented by the Sean Kelly Gallery in New York where her exhibition, The Waters Reglitterized, opened in September 2005. As a composer, Anderson has contributed music to films by Wim Wenders and Jonathan Demme; dance pieces by Bill T. Jones, Trisha Brown, Molissa Fenley, and a score for Robert LePage's theater production, Far Side of the Moon. She has created pieces for National Public Radio, The BBC, and Expo '92 in Seville. In 1997 she curated the two-week Meltdown Festival at Royal Festival Hall in London. Her most recent orchestra work Songs for A.E. premiered at Carnegie Hall in February 2000 performed by the American Composers Orchestra and later toured Europe with the Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra conducted by Dennis Russell Davies. Recognized worldwide as a groundbreaking leader in the use of technology in the arts, Anderson collaborated with Interval Research Corporation, a research and development laboratory founded by Paul Allen and David Liddle, in the exploration of new creative tools, including the Talking Stick. She created the introduction sequence for the first segment of the PBS special Art 21, a series about Art in the 21st century. Her awards include the 2001 Tenco Prize for Songwriting in San Remo, Italy and the 2001 Deutsche Schallplatten prize for Life On A String as well as grants from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts. In 2002, Anderson was appointed the first artist-in-residence of NASA out of which she developed her solo performance "The End of the Moon" which premiered in 2004 and toured internationally through 2006. Other recent projects include a commission to create a series of audio-visual installations and a high definition film, Hidden Inside Mountains, for the World Expo 2005 in Aichi, Japan and a series of programs for French radio called "Rien dans les Poches/Nothing in my Pockets". Her score for Trisha Brown's acclaimed piece "O Composite" premiered at the Opera Garnier in Paris in December 2004. Anderson was also part of the team that created the opening ceremony for the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens. Currently she is working on a series of documented walks, a new album for Nonesuch Records, "Homeland", and an accompanying touring performance. Anderson lives in New York City.
