=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The History of the Nike Cortez]
Apr 5, 2024 · The Cortez was the first Nike running shoe to reflect the design genius of Bill Bowerman, Nike co-founder and legendary track and field coach. He was always looking for ways to help his athletes unlock their greatest potential and take their running to the next level.
URL: https://www.nike.com/a/cortez-history

[Nike Cortez - Wikipedia]
The Nike Cortez is the first running shoe released by Nike in 1972, and is therefore thought to be a significant aspect to the success of the company. The Cortez was first designed by Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman, [2] aiming to produce a comfortable and durable running shoe for distance training and road running.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nike_Cortez

[Nike Sneaker Timeline - History of Nike - Fat Buddha Store]
Taking its first steps into footwear that mimics the natural motion of the foot, Nike releases the Nike Air Rift, a unique split toe design that was developed with input from the Kenyan running team.
URL: https://www.fatbuddhastore.com/nike-sneaker-history-i195

[Ridiculous History: Nike's Very First Shoes Were Made With a Waffle ...]
The running shoe that put Nike on the map was designed over the breakfast table, and a relic of its genesis was unearthed after years in a trash pit.
URL: https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/style/bags-shoes/nike-first-shoes-made-waffle-iron.htm

[Nike (shoes) - First Versions]
The first Nike retail store opened on November 21, 1990, at the corner of Southwest Sixth Avenue and Salmon Street in Downtown Portland, the city center of Portland, Oregon, United States. Interesting facts: The company takes its name from Nike, the Greek goddess of victory.
URL: https://www.firstversions.com/2015/06/nike-shoes.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The History of the Nike Cortez] ---
The History of the Cortez Department of Nike Archives All the details on the revolutionary running shoe. The Cortez was the first Nike running shoe to reflect the design genius of Bill Bowerman, Nike co-founder and legendary track and field coach. He was always looking for ways to help his athletes unlock their greatest potential and take their running to the next level. The Cortez was the product of many iterations of prototypes, ultimately starting a revolution in running footwear. When the Cortez launched in the late ‘60s, it offered a level of cushioning previously unknown to American distance runners. That’s because the Cortez was the first running shoe to combine a full-length midsole with a sponge rubber layer just below the upper. Not only did the Cortez become Nike’s best-selling running shoe, the new cushioning combination also became the industry standard, providing better underfoot cushioning to help absorb impact and altering the course of footwear history. In 1971, an influential running magazine dubbed the Cortez “the most popular long-distance training shoe in the U.S.” This shoe has become one of the most recognizable in Nike history — and not only among runners. With its extra padding for the ball of the foot, more cushioning in the heel and serious herringbone traction underfoot, the Cortez challenged and redefined the standards of cushioning and traction at the time. And it was born out of a coach (Bowerman, pictured above) putting the needs of his runners first. That unrelenting focus on the athlete is a deeply held tenet that has informed Nike’s approach to product innovation since the company’s founding. Since the shoe’s inception as a breakthrough in running innovation, it has since evolved and broadened its appeal beyond runners. For example, in 2000 Nike released the Nike Cortez 3 SE Olympic Low, featuring red and silver Swooshes, “USA” stitched on the heel and a unique, translucent outsole. Today, the shoe remains a beloved silhouette, with leather, suede and other everyday styles worn all over the world.


--- [Nike Cortez - Wikipedia] ---
The Nike Cortez is the first running shoe released by Nike in 1972, and is therefore thought to be a significant aspect to the success of the company. The Cortez was first designed by Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman, aiming to produce a comfortable and durable running shoe for distance training and road running. The Nike Cortez was released at the peak of the 1972 Summer Olympics, and quickly gained interest by the general public. The shoe previously known as the Onitsuka Tiger Cortez was later renamed to the Onitsuka Tiger Corsair after Nike won a court battle to continue using the name in 1974.




--- [Nike Sneaker Timeline - History of Nike - Fat Buddha Store] ---
No content


--- [Ridiculous History: Nike's Very First Shoes Were Made With a Waffle ...] ---
For sports fans and sneaker heads, there may not be anything more iconic in the world of athletic footwear than the Nike swoosh. The darting wing design is synonymous with sports apparel and marketing heft, so much so that the logo itself is said to be worth tens of billions of dollars. Still, the swoosh isn't the only piece of eye-catching craftwork that helped launch Nike as a major player in the athletic business. The company's original Waffle Trainers put Nike on the map nearly five decades ago, and the shoe's unique name doesn't come just from its design — its aesthetic actually came about thanks to one common household appliance. Advertisement When Nike launched its own line of footwear in 1974, it started with the waffle trainers. The running shoes were a version of the kicks that company co-founder Bill Bowerman had been tinkering with for decades, and were also considered an improvement on the Tiger Cortez model that he crafted for Japanese shoemaker Onitsuka five years earlier. Unlike those models, however, the Nike Cortez version also featured a unique raised-waffle design on the bottom of the shoe. That gave runners traction on a variety of surfaces without having to resort to metal spikes. According to company legend, Bowerman came up with the design over breakfast one day at his home in Eugene, Oregon. He used the family's waffle iron – this time turning to melted urethane instead of batter – to churn out lightweight rubber waffles that were later attached to the running shoes. Those early versions of the trainer were originally dubbed the “moon shoe,” thanks to the imprint they made on dirt and other surfaces. They eventually helped make Nike a household name in the running game. Four decades later, you can still find adaptations of the original waffle trainer on shoe store racks around the globe — while the original waffle iron was unearthed from a trash pit in 2010 and now sits in the Nike headquarters. Advertisement


--- [Nike (shoes) - First Versions] ---
| Nike "Swoosh" logo 1971 by Carolyn Davidson | Name: "Nike Moon Shoes" Category: Fashion Subcategory: Shoes Designer: Bill Bowerman Producer: Nike Inc. (founded by Bill Bowerman and Philip Knight on January 25, 1964 as "Blue Ribbon Sports", changed to Nike Inc. in 1971) Production start: 1972 - USA Features: The company was founded on January 25, 1964 as "Blue Ribbon Sports" (BRS) by University of Oregon track athlete Philip Knight and his coach Bill Bowerman; it initially operated as a distributor for the Japanese shoemaker Onitsuka Tiger (now known as Asics). In 1966, BRS opened its first retail store, located in Santa Monica, California. In 1967, due to rapidly increasing sales, BRS expanded retail and distribution operations on the East Coast, in Wellesley, Massachusetts. By 1971, the relationship between BRS and Onitsuka Tiger was nearing an end, and the company changed to Nike Inc. In 1972, the first line of Nike footwear is introduced, including the so-called "Moon Shoes" and the Nike "Cortez", that became the company's most popular product. The first Nike retail store opened on November 21, 1990, at the corner of Southwest Sixth Avenue and Salmon Street in Downtown Portland, the city center of Portland, Oregon, United States. Interesting facts: The company takes its name from Nike, the Greek goddess of victory. In 1971 the co-founder Bill Bowerman used his wife's waffle iron to create a new sole for footwear that would grip but be lightweight. The shoes was named "Moon Shoes" because of the resemblance of the waffle-patterned tread to footprints left by astronauts on the Moon. Quote (Bill Bowerman): «If you have a body, you are an athlete» Property: Nike, Inc. Producer website: http://www.nike.com | Nike origins: the first Blue Ribbon Sports (BRS) retail store opened in 1966 at 3107 Pico Boulevard in Santa Monica, California. The store distributed Onitsuka Tiger shoes. | | Nike shoes U.S. patent (filed August 30, 1972) granted to Bill Bowerman. «An athletic shoe suitable for use on artificial turf is described including an improved upper of a porous multiple layer construction and an improved sole having integral polygon shaped studs. The upper is preferably made of nylon tricot fabric outer layer, a polyurethane foam middle layer, and a porous synthetic fabric inner layer. This greatly reduces the weight of a football shoe made in accordance with the invention so that it is approximately one-half the weight of a conventional leather football shoe as well as providing great comfort and enabling use in wet weather without damage. The sole has short multi-sided polygon shaped studs of square, rectangular or triangle cross section, having a plurality of flat sides which provide gripping edges that give greatly improved traction». | | Rare Nike handmade "waffle" prototype shoes by Bill Bowerman. Jordan Geller, who owns hundreds of original Nike shoes housed in his ShoeZeum in California, bought these shoes in 2014 for $1,500 from an Oregon man, Jeff Wasson. Jeff says he was given the shoe in 2010 by Tom Bowerman, one of the sons of Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman. | The original waffle iron that inspired Bill Bowerman to create Nike's "waffle" sole, and one of the shoes unearthed in a rubbish pit on Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman's property, on display at company headquarters near Beaverton. | Nike Moon Shoes (1972). Nike handed out this shoe to athletes competing at the U.S. Olympic Trials Eugene, Oregon, 1972. The sole was designed to minimize its weight, maximize traction, and prevent blisters. | The American runner Mark Covert wearing Nike shoes (1972). Mark Covert, placed seventh in the 1972 U.S. Olympic Trials Marathon in Eugene, Oregon, became the first person to cross a finish line wearing a pair of Nike shoes. | Nike "Swoosh" logo was designed by Carolyn Davidson while a graphic design student at Portland State University in Portland, Oregon. For her services, the company paid her $35 ($206 in 2015 dollars). The Swoosh was first used by Nike on June 18, 1971, and was registered with the U.S. Patent Office on January 22, 1974. | William Jay "Bill" Bowerman (Portland, Feb. 19, 1911 - Fossil, Dec. 24, 1999), American track and field coach, designer of the first Nike shoes and co-founder of Nike Inc. with Philip Knight. | Nike Cortez advertising (May 1972). Originally designed in the mid-sixties by Bill Bowerman, an early 1967 catalog described the Cortez as «Designed to be the finest long distance shoe in the world. Soft sponge midsole through ball and heel absorbs road shock; high-density outer sole for extra miles of wear». | Nike Cortez advertising (June 1973). When Philip Knight and Bill Bowerman ceased importing and distributing running shoes through Blue Ribbon Sports and launched Nike as a designer and maker of athletic shoes, the Cortez silhouette carried over to the new brand. | Nike, the first retail store opened on November 21, 1990, at the corner of Southwest Sixth Avenue and Salmon Street in Downtown Portland, Oregon, United States. | Nike Cortez, the iconic shoe designed by Bill Bowerman at the end of the sixties and released in 1972, returns in its original colorway - as seen in the cult movie "Forrest Gump" - to celebrate 43th anniversary (2015). | | Nike 50th anniversary (1972-2022) |
