=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge: 2016 Academic Award]
Feb 10, 2026 · Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge 2016 award winner, Professor Chirik, discovered a class of catalysts used to produce silicones for consumer goods without using hard-to-mine platinum (less mining, reduces costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste).
URL: https://www.epa.gov/greenchemistry/presidential-green-chemistry-challenge-2016-academic-award

[Editorial board member Paul Anastas wins prestigious Green Chemistry ...]
May 9, 2016 · By Matthew Cude, Development Editor. Professor Paul Anastas, from Yale University, is the Royal Society of Chemistry Green Chemistry Award winner for 2016 Professor Anastas is widely regarded as the ‘father of green chemistry’ and holds the Teresa and H. John Heinz III Chair in Chemistry for the Environment at Yale University.
URL: https://blogs.rsc.org/gc/2016/05/09/editorial-board-member-paul-anastas-wins-prestigious-green-chemistry-award/

[Green success stories: The 2016 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge ...]
In addition to talks by the award winners, the three-day meeting will feature plenary and technical sessions on advances in green chemistry and engineering research, education, and policy issues ...
URL: https://cen.acs.org/articles/94/i25/Green-success-stories-2016-Presidential.html

[Green Chemistry Award - Wikipedia]
^ "Green Chemistry Award 2012 Winner". Royal Society of Chemistry. ^ "York scientists win prestigious Royal Society of Chemistry accolades". University of York. ^ "2016 Green Chemistry Award winner". RSC. Retrieved 20 May 2018. ^ "Professor Paul Dyson | Green Chemistry Award winner 2020". Royal Society of Chemistry. Retrieved 2022-06-09.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Chemistry_Award

[2016 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards]
Jun 13, 2016 · The awards were presented at the 20th Annual Green Chemistry & Engineering Conference in Portland, OR, USA, on June 13, 2016. This year’s Academic Award goes to Professor Paul J. Chirik, Princeton University, NJ, USA, for catalysis with earth-abundant transition metals.
URL: https://www.chemistryviews.org/details/ezine/9435341/2016_Presidential_Green_Chemistry_Challenge_Awards/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge: 2016 Academic Award] ---
Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge: 2016 Academic Award Professor Paul J. Chirik of Princeton University Catalysis with Earth Abundant Transition Metals - Discovered catalysts that don't use hard-to-obtain platinum to make silicones that are used in: - silicone rubber; - tires; - shampoos; - furniture fibers; - paper coatings; and - other consumer goods. - This new class of catalysts could reduce the mining of many tons of ore which reduces costs and: - energy usage by 85 billion BTUs per year; - waste generation by 8.5 million kilograms per year; and - carbon generation by 21.7 million kilograms per year. Summary of Technology: Metal-catalyzed chemical reactions have enabled many of the technological innovations of modern society with applications ranging from the synthesis of advanced materials to new medicines. For decades, catalyst technology has relied on some of the least abundant elements in the Earth’s crust – palladium, platinum, rhodium, and iridium. In addition to their high cost, price volatility, and toxicity, extraction of these elements has significant environmental consequences. Obtaining one ounce of a precious metal, for example, often requires mining approximately 10 tons of ore which creates a CO2 footprint that is estimated to be 6,000 times that of abundant metals such as iron. Alkene hydrosilylation is an example of a metal-catalyzed chemical reaction that is used on an industrial scale in the manufacture of silicones from alkenes and silanes. Silicones are found in a range of consumer products including adhesives, household utensils, medical devices, health care products, and low rolling resistance tires. The platinum catalyst used in alkene hydrosilylation reactions is often not recovered, however, which results in a significant environmental footprint for this commercially important process. Professor Chirik and his research group, in collaboration with Momentive Performance Materials, discovered a new class of hydrosilylation catalysts based on earth-abundant transition metals such as iron and cobalt that have superior performance to existing platinum catalysts. This base metal catalyst technology offers the opportunity to enable new chemical processes that provide the desired product exclusively, eliminate distillation steps, and avoid generation of byproducts and unnecessary waste. This technology is based upon “metal-ligand cooperativity,” a broad catalysis concept pioneered by the Chirik group, where electron changes occur concomitantly between the metal and the supporting ligand. Hydrosilylations to produce various commercial silicone products have been conducted on multi-gram scales using this new technology. The discovery of these air-stable, readily-synthesized iron and cobalt catalysts with unprecedented activity and selectivity may ultimately transform the industrial approach to commercial silicone products. Other resources: - Learn more about green chemistry. - Learn more about Professor Paul J. Chirik and his research. - Read the press release from Princeton University. Note: Disclaimer Return to the list of all winners including the 2016 Award Winners.


--- [Editorial board member Paul Anastas wins prestigious Green Chemistry ...] ---
Professor Anastas is widely regarded as the ‘father of green chemistry’ and holds the Teresa and H. John Heinz III Chair in Chemistry for the Environment at Yale University. His talents have brought him to positions in service of four U.S. Presidents including working in the White House in the Clinton and Bush Administration and was named by President Obama to the Senate-confirmed position as Assistant Administrator for Research and Development at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In 2007, he founded the Center for Green Chemistry and Green Engineering at Yale that is engaged in basic research, development, commercialization, curriculum development, and policy initiatives. To read more about Professor Anastas and the 2016 Green Chemistry Award please click-through to the website. Related content: All 2016 Royal Society of Chemistry prize and award winners: http://rsc.li/awards-prizes-2016 Collection of articles published by prize and award winners: http://rsc.li/rscwinners2016-collection


--- [Green success stories: The 2016 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge ...] ---
No content


--- [Green Chemistry Award - Wikipedia] ---
First awarded in 2001, the Green Chemistry Award was presented every two years by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) for advances in environmentally focused chemistry. In addition to a prize of £2000, winners of the award complete a UK based lecture tour. The award was discontinued in 2020.




--- [2016 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards] ---
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has announced the winners of the 2016 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards. The awards are presented by the EPA and the American Chemical Society’s (ACS) Green Chemistry Institute, and recognize chemical technologies from the United States that incorporate the principles of green chemistry into chemical design, manufacture, and use. The awards were presented at the 20th Annual Green Chemistry & Engineering Conference in Portland, OR, USA, on June 13, 2016. This year’s Academic Award goes to Professor Paul J. Chirik, Princeton University, NJ, USA, for catalysis with earth-abundant transition metals. Professor Chirik and his team have developed catalysts for the manufacture of silicones, commonly used chemicals in many consumer products such as tires or shampoos. The catalysts do not rely on rare platinum, but instead use readily available metals, such as iron and cobalt. This saves much of the costs, energy, and water needed to mine platinum and could ultimately transform the industrial approach to commercial silicone products. The companies Albemarle and CB&I are the winners of the Award for Greener Synthetic Pathways. They are honored for their AlkyClean® technology, which makes it safer to produce alkylate, isoparaffins that are used as a clean gasoline component. It is produced by a reaction of isobutane and light olefins, commonly catalyzed by strong, toxic acids such as HF. AlkyClean® uses a solid zeolite catalyst, which is safer and has a lower environmental impact. The Award for Greener Reaction Conditions goes to Dow AgroSciences LLC for their Instinct® Technology, which improves the effectiveness of nitrogen fertilizers. Usually, soil bacteria quickly convert the nitrogen in fertilizer from the urea or ammoniacal form to nitrate, which can leach out the roots’ surroundings and thus no longer provide nutrients for the plant. Dow has developed a nitrification inhibitor that reduces nitrogen loss through leaching and improves crop yields. Newlight Technologies receives the Award for Designing Greener Chemicals and Specific Environmental Benefit: Climate Change. The company has developed a low-cost thermoplastic made from methane-based greenhouse gas, which can be used to make consumer products such as phone cases. The process uses a biocatalyst based on polyhydroxyalkanoate polymerase. The method successfully captures atmospheric carbon, and the resulting polymer is cheaper than petroleum-based products. The Award For Small Businesses goes to Verdezyne for a process that produces nylon from renewable materials. The company has genetically engineered yeast strains that can produce chemical intermediates such as dodecanedioic acid, which is used in the production of nylon. The process uses lauric acid from waste products of vegetable oil refining and offers an environmentally friendly and safer alternative to fossil-based production. - Homepage of the Chirik Group, Princeton, NJ, USA - CB&I, The Woodlands, TX, USA - Albemarle, Charlotte, NC, USA - Dow AgroSciences LLC, Indianapolis, IN, USA - Newlight Technologies, Costa Mesa, CA, USA - Verdezyne, Carlsbad, CA, USA
