=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tetrahedron Prize - Wikipedia]
The Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity in Organic Chemistry or Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry is awarded annually by Elsevier, the publisher of Tetrahedron Publications. It was established in 1980 and named in honour of the founding co-chairmen of these publications, Professor Sir Robert Robinson and Professor Robert Burns Woodward.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tetrahedron_Prize

[10.1016/S0040-4020(96)91677-4 | DeepDyve]
Jun 11, 2020 · The Executive Board of Editors for Tetrahedron Publications is pleased to announce that for 1996, the Tetrahedron Prize has been awarded to Professor Samuel J. Danishefsky for his elegant and important contributions to the Practice of Organic Synthesis. iii
URL: https://www.deepdyve.com/lp/elsevier/tetrahedron-prize-for-creativity-in-organic-chemistry-1996-ToCn0tYOKg

[Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity - Elsevier]
Background The Tetrahedron Prize is awarded on an annual basis for creativity in Organic Chemistry or Bioorganic/Medicinal Chemistry, and is presented to a chemist who has made significant original contributions to the field, in its broadest sense. The prize consists of a gold medal, a certificate, and a monetary award of US $15,000 and an invitation to present a plenary lecture during the ...
URL: https://www.elsevier.com/resources/awards/tetrahedron-prize-for-creativity

[Press Release: Danishefsky's Carbohydrate Work Wins Acclaim]
Danishefsky accepted the Tetrahedron Prize, which includes a medal and $10,000, Sept. 17 in Chicago; the prize is named for the British journals Tetrahedron and Tetrahedron Letters and is awarded by their editors "for outstanding creativity in organic chemistry." In the Aug. 26 issue of its journal, Chemical and Engineering News, the American Chemical Society announced it would award ...
URL: https://www1.columbia.edu/cu/pr/96/18955.html

[Tetrahedron Prize - Detailed Pedia]
The Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity in Organic Chemistry or Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry is awarded annually by Elsevier, the publisher of Tetrahedron Publications. It was established in 1980 and named in honour of the founding co-chairmen of these publications, Professor Sir Robert Robinson and Professor Robert Burns Woodward. The prize consists of a gold medal, a certificate, and a ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-Tetrahedron_Prize


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tetrahedron Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity in Organic Chemistry or Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry is awarded annually by Elsevier, the publisher of Tetrahedron Publications. It was established in 1980 and named in honour of the founding co-chairmen of these publications, Professor Sir Robert Robinson and Professor Robert Burns Woodward. The prize consists of a gold medal, a certificate, and a monetary award of US $15,000.


--- [10.1016/S0040-4020(96)91677-4 | DeepDyve] ---
No content


--- [Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity - Elsevier] ---
Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity The Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity in Organic Chemistry was established in 1980 by the Executive Board of Editors and the Publisher of Tetrahedron Publications. It is intended to honour the memory of the founding co-Chairmen of these publications, Professor Sir Robert Robinson and Professor Robert Burns Woodward. Background The Tetrahedron Prize is awarded on an annual basis for creativity in Organic Chemistry or Bioorganic/Medicinal Chemistry, and is presented to a chemist who has made significant original contributions to the field, in its broadest sense. The prize consists of a gold medal, a certificate, and a monetary award of US $15,000 and an invitation to present a plenary lecture during the annual Tetrahedron Symposium. In 2026, the award honors significant original, creative contributions to the field of Organic Chemistry. The winner is expected to suggest appropriate authors for a joint Tetrahedron/Tetrahedron Letters Special Issue that will be compiled in their honour. Application process This year the prize will be awarded to an Organic Chemist who has made significant original contributions to the field, in its broadest sense. To nominate candidates, please send a document (as PDF) containing the following elements: The nominee’s name, current affiliation, contact details and website A two-page biographical sketch A list of no more than 10 of the nominee’s key publications Two-page letter of support from nominator (including contact details of nominator) The deadline for nominations is 30 April 2026. Self-nominations are not accepted. Nominations can be updated and renewed every year and will remain valid for five additional rounds after the last renewal. Please send all nominations to Liza Chan ([email protected]). Questions concerning the award may also be sent to Liza Chan. For more information please follow us on our social media channels:


--- [Press Release: Danishefsky's Carbohydrate Work Wins Acclaim] ---
Office of Public Affairs Columbia University New York, N.Y. 10027 (212) 854-5573 Carbohydrates may be familiar as the stuff of which pre-marathon meals are made, but chemistry is only now determining their role in the human body. Columbia chemist Samuel Danishefsky's pioneering work on these sugars has brought him two prizes from his peers in organic chemistry. Danishefsky accepted the Tetrahedron Prize, which includes a medal and $10,000, Sept. 17 in Chicago; the prize is named for the British journals Tetrahedron and Tetrahedron Letters and is awarded by their editors "for outstanding creativity in organic chemistry." In the Aug. 26 issue of its journal, Chemical and Engineering News, the American Chemical Society announced it would award Danishefsky its Claude S. Hudson Award in Carbohydrate Chemistry at its annual spring meeting April 15 in San Francisco. "He's intensely focused on his own research, but he retains an enormous amount of time to mentor students and even colleagues," said Harry Wasserman, professor emeritus of organic chemistry at Yale, the American editor of both Tetrahedron publications and a former colleague of Danishefsky's. "He's a rare person in that sense." In the last 10 years, Danishefsky has developed a building-block approach to carbohydrate synthesis, using glycals, carbon rings with one oxygen atom, as the basic unit to build oligosaccarides, very complex carbohydrates, and glycopeptides, carbohydrates attached to peptides. Such molecules might some day play a role in directing the immune system to specific antigens and the work may eventually allow scientists to turn on the process at will. "These awards are meaningful to me because they are decided by senior organic chemists," Danishefsky said. "They are like family." In addition to his post as professor of chemistry at Columbia, Danishefsky holds the Eugene W. Kettering Chair and directs the Laboratory for Bioorganic Chemistry at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He is a graduate of Yeshiva and Harvard and resides in Englewood, N.J. 9.26.96 18,955


--- [Tetrahedron Prize - Detailed Pedia] ---
No content
