=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Robbie Robertson - Wikipedia]
The first band Robertson joined was Little Caesar and the Consuls, formed in 1956 by pianist/vocalist Bruce Morshead and guitarist Gene MacLellan. He stayed with the group for almost a year, playing popular songs of the day at local teen dances.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robbie_Robertson

[RIP: Robbie Robertson Passes At Age 80 - Billboard Canada]
Aug 10, 2023 · According to Wikipedia, the first band Robertson joined was Little Caesar and the Consuls, formed in 1956 by pianist/vocalist Bruce Morshead and guitarist Gene MacLellan. He stayed with the group for almost a year, then in 1957 he formed Robbie and the Rhythm Chords with his friend Pete "Thumper" Traynor (who would later found Traynor Amplifiers).
URL: https://ca.billboard.com/fyi/rip-robbie-robertson-passes-age-80

[The Song Remains: Robbie Robertson (1943 - 2023) - Americana UK]
Aug 11, 2023 · The eclectic songwriter behind the musical mastery of The Band. Robbie Robertson, one of the most important musicians of his generation, died on August 9 th, at his home in Los Angeles, following a lengthy illness. Robertson was a fine guitarist, an outstanding songwriter and a founding member, and de facto leader, of that most influential group of americana musicians, The Band. Born Jaime ...
URL: https://americana-uk.com/the-song-remains-robbie-robertson-1943-2023

[The Band]
Between 1958 and 1963, the group were known as the Hawks and were the backing band for rockabilly singer Ronnie Hawkins, based in Toronto, Ontario. In the mid- ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Band

[Robbie Robertson – World Musician Obituaries]
Aug 9, 2023 · The first band Robertson joined was Little Caesar and the Consuls, formed in 1956 by pianist/vocalist Bruce Morshead and guitarist Gene MacLellan. He stayed with the group for almost a year, playing popular songs of the day at local teen dances.
URL: https://worldmusicianobituaries.org/musicians/robbie-robertson/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Robbie Robertson - Wikipedia] ---
Jaime Royal "Robbie" Robertson  (July 5, 1943 – August 9, 2023) was a Canadian musician, composer, and producer. Robertson was the onetime lead guitarist for Bob Dylan's backing band. He was also the guitarist and primary songwriter of the Band from its inception until his 1976 departure. In his later solo career, Robertson released six albums.
Robertson's work with the Band was instrumental in creating the Americana music genre. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Canadian Music Hall of Fame as a member of the Band; he was also inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame, both with the Band and on his own. Robertson is ranked 59th in Rolling Stone magazine's 2011 list of the 100 greatest guitarists of all time. He wrote "The Weight" and "The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down" with the Band and had a solo hit with "Somewhere Down the Crazy River". He was inducted into the Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame and received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Academy of Songwriters. 
Robertson collaborated on film and television soundtracks, usually with director Martin Scorsese. His soundtrack work began with The Band's farewell rockumentary film The Last Waltz (1978) and included dramatic films such as Raging Bull (1980), The King of Comedy (1983), The Color of Money (1986), The Irishman (2019), and Killers of the Flower Moon (2023), the last of which was dedicated to his memory and garnered him a posthumous nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Score.




--- [RIP: Robbie Robertson Passes At Age 80 - Billboard Canada] ---
By FYI Staff Born of Mohawk and Cayuga and Jewish descent, Jaime Royal “Robbie” Robertson was born in Toronto on July 5, 1943, and scrapped around Toronto playing guitar in a series of bands before joining Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks with drummer and future The Band member Levon Helm when he was in his late teens. According to Wikipedia, the first band Robertson joined was Little Caesar and the Consuls, formed in 1956 by pianist/vocalist Bruce Morshead and guitarist Gene MacLellan. He stayed with the group for almost a year, then in 1957 he formed Robbie and the Rhythm Chords with his friend Pete "Thumper" Traynor (who would later found Traynor Amplifiers). They changed the name to Robbie and the Robots after they watched the film Forbidden Planet and took a liking to the film's character Robby the Robot. Traynor customized Robertson's guitar for the Robots, fitting it with antennae and wires to give it a space-age look. Traynor and Robertson joined with pianist Scott Cushnie and became The Suedes. At a Suedes show on October 5, 1959, when they played CHUM Radio's Hi-Fi Club on Toronto's Merton Street, Ronnie Hawkins first became aware of them and was impressed enough to join them for a few numbers. Hawkins hired him as a bassist in The Hawks, and Robertson switched to lead guitar, becoming strongly influenced by American blues-rock guitarist Roy Buchanan who himself was briefly a Hawk. Much of Robertson’s career was fortuitously guided by happenstance and when Bob Dylan retreated to the bucolic town of Woodstock in northern New York state to recover from a reported motorbike accident and shake the unwanted mantle of spiritual leader for the American acoustic folk movement, he had his manager call Robertson to join him with Helm, and it was there that they recorded the Basement Tapes. It was there too that Music From Big Pink was gestated with Robertson credited for songs on that album that included Chest Fever, The Weight, Caledonia Mission, and To Kingdom Come. The album’s release on Capitol Records hit like a bolt of lighting in 1968, starkly different from any other albums in a year that was bolted down by a mish-mash of artists ranging from The Doors, Cream and Jimi Hendrix to Glen Campbell, Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass, and Simon and Garfunkel. In a moment, The Band was launched and the year following the eponymously titled second album, The Band, was released with the evergreen The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down included on it. After making the cover of Time magazine and pretty much conquering the world with their mix of authentic Americana music captured on five subsequent albums, Robertson, Helm, Rick Danko and Richard Manuel were pretty much done as a unit by 1976 when concert promoter Bill Graham booked The Band at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco for a grand finale with an A-list of guests that included Hawkins, Muddy Waters, Paul Butterfield, Dr. John, Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton, Van Morrison, Neil Dimond, Joni Mitchell, Neil Young, Emmylou Harris, Paul Butterfield and others. The Winterland concert was called The Last Waltz, and filmmaker Martin Scorsese filmed it. The audio became a benchmark 2-LP live recording, and Scorsese’s film of the concert became a seminal rockumentary. Robertson went on to pursue a solo career perhaps notably highlighted by his first release, Robbie Robertson, produced by fellow Canadian Daniel Lanois with a flotilla of A-listers guesting, with Danko and Hudson also making appearances. Its sequel, Storyville also earned distinction and, again, included Danko and Hudson contributing. His last and sixth solo alum was Sinematic, released in 2019 with Van Morrison among guest artists making appearances. He also pursued projects with Scorsese, contributing to movies that included Carny, Raging Bull, The King of Comedy, The Colour of Money, Casino, The Departed, Gangs of New York, and The Irishman. In 2016, Robertson published a well-received memoir, Testimony. A full-length documentary, Once Were Brothers: Robbie Robertson and The Band, opened the Toronto International Film Festival in 2019. It includes interviews with Bruce Springsteen, Eric Clapton, Martin Scorsese and Peter Gabriel and continues to stream on Canadian television. His death was made public via a statement from his family posted on social media: “Robbie was surrounded by his family at the time of his death, including his wife, Janet, his ex-wife, Dominique, her partner Nicholas, and his children Alexandra, Sebastian, Delphine, and Delphine’s partner Kenny. He is also survived by his grandchildren Angelica, Donovan, Dominic, Gabriel, and Seraphina." Robertson recently completed his fourteenth film music project with frequent collaborator Martin Scorsese, Killers of the Flower Moon. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be made to the Six Nations of the Grand River to support a new Woodland Cultural Centre.” Among the many statements made on his passing yesterday: Justin Trudeau on Twitter: “Guitarist. Songwriter. Storyteller. Robbie Robertson was a big part of Canada’s outsized contributions to the arts. I’m thinking of his family, friends, and fans who are mourning his loss. Thank you for the music and the memories, Robbie.” Bryan Adams, Twitter: “RIP Robbie Robertson. Thanks for the amazing music and the great hangs, especially photographing you in LA not so long ago. We'll keep Anna Lee company for you...” Joni Mitchell, Twitter: “Rest in peace Robbie Robertson, legendary lead guitarist of The Band, fellow Canadian, and cherished collaborator of Joni's. May his legacy and musical harmony resonate for generations to come.” Larry LeBlanc, Celebrity Access: “While Neil Young, Joni Mitchell and John Kay were fighting their way through Toronto’s Yorkville Village’s folk clubs in the 1960s, Ronnie Hawkins, backed by Levon and the Hawks– Levon Helm, Robbie Robertson, Garth Hudson, Richard Manuel and Rick Danko–reigned on downtown Yonge Street. The Yonge Street bar strip was then a ‘Life is A Carnival’ maze of flickering neon lights, honking car horns, and fast people. “Local musicians, as well as myself and others, would fight nightly for seats as the Hawks held court in a raucous style Toronto bar crowds expected from young players backing a colourful Fayetteville, Arkansas rock and roller who’d tell us, ‘Live fast, live hard, die young, and leave a be-yu-ti-ful memoree.’ "' We were really going strong in those days,’' Hawkins once told me. 'We were just experimenting; how much we could cram in, how much we could learn'.’” “In listening to the Band’s debut album, Music From Big Pink and the slim collection of albums that followed, we knew that the years of such ‘woodshedding’ paid off. As well Robbie Robertson’s enduring legacy as a master Strats guitarist lived on with local players including the late Domenic Troiano and Freddie Keeler as well as more recently Colin Linden. “And even those who didn’t play guitar growing up in Toronto, like myself, we still wanted to be Robbie Robertson, the coolest of the cool. I got to interview him numerous times over the years, and his music is part of my DNA.” Kevin Shea, Facebook: “…. I knew Robbie’s resume: Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks, followed by backing Bob Dylan and then The Band. All are seminal figures in Canada’s musical history. “There was something magical about Robbie Robertson, his eponymous album release. Listening to the album felt like I was riding along the blue highways in a classic convertible, Robbie at the wheel, the wind whipping through our hair, both of us smiling like the butcher’s dog as he regaled me with stories about the people he’d met along the way. “It didn’t hurt MCA Records Canada that Robbie Robertson was Canadian; a boy born in Toronto who had spent a great deal of time with his mother’s family on the Six Nations Reserve near Brantford, Ontario. Hamilton native Daniel Lanois produced the album and brought along his friends Peter Gabriel and U2 to contribute. “Showdown at Big Sky, with the BoDeans backing Robertson, was the first track for rock radio, and we did exceptionally well with it. Broken Arrow, later covered by Rod Stewart, was a fabulous track, as was Hell’s Half Acre. But the track that garnered surprising and significant attention at rock radio, adult contemporary as well as Top 40 was Somewhere Down the Crazy River, with Robbie rhapsodizing about life along the blue highways. “Yeah, I can see it now. The distant red neon shivered in the heat. Take a picture of this. The fields are empty, abandoned ’59 Chevy, laying in the back seat listening to Little Willie John.” “I can never hear that song without thinking of our dear friend Nevin Grant. His Top 40 radio station, CKOC Hamilton, added Somewhere Down the Crazy River instantly and took it into the top ten, unusual for a song in which the artist speaks the verses and sings the chorus. By CKOC playing the song, many similar stations followed suit, and we earned an unlikely Top 40 hit. “The album left an indelible impression on me. One day soon, I plan to fill the car with gas and drive the blue highways from Toronto to Tobermory, passing through Shelburne, Flesherton, Markdale, Owen Sound and Wiarton on my way to the Bruce Peninsula, exploring my province and my personal roots with Robbie Robertson providing the soundtrack as I go. “Thank you for the music and memories, Robbie. God bless you.” Nicholas Jennings, Facebook: “Stepping off a Greyhound bus from Toronto in 1961, a 17-year-old boy found himself in West Helena, Ark., by the banks of the Mississippi River, unable to believe his senses. “It smelled different and moved different,” Robbie Robertson once told me. “The people talked and dressed different. And the air was filled with thick and funky music.” The experience left an indelible impression on the budding guitarist and songwriter. “When he released his post-Band solo debut years later, the album’s most explicitly autobiographical song was Somewhere Down the Crazy River, which related Robertson’s experience in the American South. The inspiration came late one night in the recording studio. Robertson, an engaging storyteller, was recounting his arrival in the Mississippi Delta. His conversation so enthralled producer Daniel Lanois that he started rolling the tape. “The result, a richly cinematic narrative, magically takes the listener back to that day in 1961. “A stranger in a strange land,” Robertson growls, “I followed the sound of a jukebox coming from up the levee.” Walking past abandoned Chevys in empty fields, he explored that world—entranced, but with his eyes and ears wide open. That song, like so much of Robertson’s music, still retains that magic. “Now Robbie Robertson is gone, dead at the age of 80. Condolences to his family, friends and fans the world over.” – Sources: Wikipedia, Variety. and Classic Rock & Culture


--- [The Song Remains: Robbie Robertson (1943 - 2023) - Americana UK] ---
The eclectic songwriter behind the musical mastery of The Band. Robbie Robertson, one of the most important musicians of his generation, died on August 9th, at his home in Los Angeles, following a lengthy illness. Robertson was a fine guitarist, an outstanding songwriter and a founding member, and de facto leader, of that most influential group of americana musicians, The Band. Born Jaime Royal Robertson in Toronto, Canada in 1943, ‘Robbie’ Robertson was of Native American lineage, through his Mother’s family, which was drawn from the Cayuga (Iroquois) and Mohawk tribes. He grew up in various neighbourhoods around the Toronto area but would also regularly visit his mother’s family on the Six Nations Reserve and it was here that he first started to show an interest in playing guitar, encouraged by an older cousin, Herb Myke. He joined his first band, Little Caesar and the Consuls, aged just 14 and quickly became known around the Toronto music scene, coming to the attention of Ronnie Hawkins when Robertson’s own band, The Suedes, played CHUM Radio’s Hi-Fi Club at the end of the 50s. Subsequently, Hawkins hired Robertson as part of the road crew for Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks, the Arkansas-based rockabilly band that found their audience, and subsequent fame, in Canada. Robertson was eventually hired to play bass for the band, before finally switching to lead guitar. Robertson based much of his early guitar style on that of Roy Buchanan, who was briefly a member of The Hawks and who Robertson was greatly impressed by. Robertson thrived as a musician in Hawkins’ band, becoming close friends with the drummer, Levon Helms, and earning co-writing credits on some of Hawkins’ songs. By 1964 The Hawks felt they’d outgrown Ronnie Hawkins and it was time to strike out on their own. Initially called The Levon Helm Sextet, the band contained all the members of what would, eventually, become known as The Band. They became Levon and The Hawks in 1964, after lead singer Bob Bruno left; it was around this time that they agreed to work on blues artist John Hammond’s ‘So Many Roads’ album. This would prove influential when Dylan began looking for a backing band for a forthcoming tour. In August 1965, Robbie Robertson received a call from Dylan’s manager, Albert Grossman, that would set him and his fellow band musicians on the road to becoming the seminal americana band. Knowing of the Hawks through Mary Martin, a Canadian employee of Grossman who knew the musicians, and through their work on the John Hammond album, Dylan was initially only interested in hiring Robertson but Robertson wasn’t prepared to leave The Hawks, agreeing only to play two shows late in 1965, one in August in New York and one in September in L.A. Robertson suggested they use Levon Helm as the drummer, which Dylan did and the relationship led to Dylan rehearsing with The Hawks in the late September of that year and hiring the entire band to support him on his U.S tour at the end of 1965 and on the infamous 1966 World Tour. This was the tour on which Dylan would play a solo acoustic set, followed by a second electric set backed by The Hawks. At Manchester Free Trade Hall, on May 17th 1966, the single word “Judas” would ring out, confirming Dylan’s transition from Folk Icon to Rock Star and securing The Band’s place in his legend. This was the start of a long association with Dylan that would see Levon and The Hawks become The Band and mark the beginning of a series of extraordinary recordings, starting with ‘The Basement Tapes’, a loose series of jams, not originally meant for release, but which formed the template for The Band’s own debut album ‘Music From Big Pink’. When ‘Music From Big Pink’ came out in the August of 1968 it confirmed the importance of The Band as innovators and influencers and of Robbie Robertson as both a musician and a songwriter. More than any other group before them, The Band fused American roots music with rock to forge a template for what we now call americana. Other bands had followed a similar route but none would prove as successful at combining these elements as The Band did with their first few albums. Four of the tracks on this first album would be written by Robertson, including ‘Chest Fever’ and what would become one of their signature tracks, ‘The Weight’, typical of Robertson’s clever use of imagery and enigmatic lyrics. From this point on, The Band, and Robertson, would enter into their most productive period, recording the critically lauded ‘The Band’ and ‘Stage Fright’, with Robertson contributing some of the best songs of his career, including ‘The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down’, ‘Rag Mama Rag’, ‘Up On Cripple Creek’, ‘The Shape I’m In’, ‘Stage Fright’ and a host of others. As ever, with success comes excess and, as the 70s moved on, various members of the group started to show the effects of ‘over-indulgence’ and it was Robertson who was largely responsible for holding The Band together through this period. The quality of their work suffered as a result but they pulled it all back together for the line-ups swan song, the outstanding ‘The Last Waltz’, an absolute tour de force of movie making and music making, with the film directed by Martin Scorsese and a concert that included some of the cream of artists interpreting American music among its guests; Dylan, Joni Mitchell, Dr. John, Eric Clapton (who had wanted to join The Band), Neil Young, Van Morrison and others. The film finally came out in 1978, signalling the end of The Band with its original line-up. Though the group would re-form on a number of occasions over the years, often with the other original members of The Band, Robertson never returned to their ranks, preferring to turn his attention to other projects. Following leaving The Band, Robertson increasingly turned his attention to movie production and creating soundtracks for films, primarily with Martin Scorsese, who he had worked so closely with on The Last Waltz project. He would help to create the soundtracks for ‘Raging Bull’, ‘The King of Comedy’, ‘Casino’, ‘Gangs of New York’ and a host of others; he finished working on a new Scorsese production, ‘Killers of the Flower Moon’ shortly before his death, the 14th film on which Robertson and Scorsese had worked together. Robertson also enjoyed a successful career as a solo performer, recording some six solo albums between 1987, with his eponymous debut (containing the hit song ‘Somewhere Down the Crazy River’) and 2019’s final recording, ‘Sinematic’ and he was in constant demand as a songwriting partner, producer and session player on other artists recordings. In fact, Robertson’s CV, across a range of creative projects, is among the most impressive you could hope to find. This was a man dedicated to the creative process and he strove to excel in all areas. In addition to all the above he found time to be an actor, an author and a supporter of a range of charities, most notably Artists Against Racism. He has achieved a mountain of awards, including a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Academy of Songwriters, the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, along with the other members of The Band, and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Community of Six Nations. He has, simply, been a towering creative presence throughout his life. It’s for his part in the history of The Band that he will, inevitably, be remembered, and for the superb songwriting he brought to the group. Inevitably, there was a certain amount of acrimony around the breakup of The Band, and subsequent accusations that he had taken sole credit for songs that had been collaborative efforts – but there were long periods of their history when Robertson was the only one steering an increasingly erratic ship and, without his influence and input they may not have achieved as much as they did. The fact remains that, between them, they crafted a music that still serves as a benchmark for all who consider themselves americana musicians and much of that was a direct result of Robbie Robertson’s influence. His passing means that Garth Hudson, six years Robertson’s senior, is now the only living member of The Band. Robbie Robertson once said “I am fascinated by the places that music comes from, like fife-and-drum blues from southern Mississippi or Cajun music out of Lafayette, Louisiana, shape-note singing, old harp singing from the mountains – I love that stuff. It’s like the beginning of rock and roll: something comes down from the hills, and something comes up from the delta”. I can think of few phrases that sum up the music Robertson and his bandmates much better than this. Robbie Robertson spent his life bringing something down from the hills and up from the delta.


--- [The Band] ---
The Band (sometimes stylized as the Band or the band) was a Canadian-American rock band formed in Toronto, Ontario. It consisted of Canadians Rick Danko (bass, guitar, vocals, fiddle), Garth Hudson (organ, keyboards, accordion, saxophone), Richard Manuel (piano, drums, vocals) and Robbie Robertson (guitar, piano, percussion) and American Levon Helm (drums, vocals, mandolin, guitar, bass). The Band's music combined elements of Americana, folk, rock, R&B, jazz and country, which influenced artists including George Harrison, Elton John, the Grateful Dead, Eric Clapton and Wilco.
Between 1958 and 1963, the group were known as the Hawks and were the backing band for rockabilly singer Ronnie Hawkins, based in Toronto, Ontario. In the mid-1960s, they gained recognition for backing Bob Dylan on his 1966 concert tour as Dylan's first electric band. After leaving Dylan and changing their name to "The Band", they released their 1968 debut album, Music from Big Pink, and its succeeding album, 1969's The Band, to critical acclaim and commercial success. Pink Floyd's Roger Waters deemed their debut the "second-most influential record in the history of rock and roll", and music journalist Al Aronowitz called it "country soul ... a sound never heard before". The Band's most popular songs include "The Weight" (1968), "The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down" (1969), and "Up on Cripple Creek" (1969). The Band later released Stage Fright (1970), Cahoots (1971), the live album Rock of Ages (1972), the covers album Moondog Matinee (1973), and Northern Lights – Southern Cross (1975).
The Band performed a farewell concert on November 25, 1976. Footage from the event was released in 1978 as the concert film The Last Waltz, directed by Martin Scorsese.  After five years apart, Danko, Hudson, Helm, and Manuel reunited in 1983 for a tour without Robertson. Manuel died in 1986, but the remaining three members continued to tour and occasionally released new albums of studio material until Danko's death in 1999, after which the Band broke up for good. The Band was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1989 and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked them 50th on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. The Band received a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2008 and were inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame in 2014.


--- [Robbie Robertson – World Musician Obituaries] ---
Robbie Robertson Band:The Band Genres:Americana , Roots Rock Born:07/05/1943 Died:08/09/2023 From: Toronto, Canada Musician Speciality:Singer/Guitar/Keys Biography: Jaime Royal “Robbie” Robertson[1] OC (July 5, 1943 – August 9, 2023) was a Canadian musician.[2] He is recognized for his work as lead guitarist for Bob Dylan in the mid-late 1960s and early-mid 1970s; as guitarist and songwriter with the Band from their inception until 1978, and for his career as a solo recording artist. Robertson’s work with the Band was instrumental in creating the Americana music genre. Robertson was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Canadian Music Hall of Fame as a member of the Band, and was inducted to Canada’s Walk of Fame, both with the Band and on his own. He is ranked 59th in Rolling Stone magazine’s list of the 100 greatest guitarists.[3] As a songwriter, Robertson is credited for writing “The Weight“, “The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down“, and “Up on Cripple Creek” with the Band, and had solo hits with “Broken Arrow” and “Somewhere Down the Crazy River“, and many others. He was inducted into the Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame, and received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Academy of Songwriters.[4] As a film soundtrack producer and composer, Robertson is known for his collaborations with director Martin Scorsese, which began with the rockumentary film The Last Waltz (1978), and continued through a number of dramatic films, including Raging Bull (1980), The King of Comedy (1983), Casino (1995), The Departed (2006), The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), The Irishman (2019), and Killers of the Flower Moon (2023). He worked on many other soundtracks for film and television. Early life Robertson was born Jaime Royal Robertson[5] on July 5, 1943. He was an only child. His mother was Rosemarie Dolly Chrysler, born February 6, 1922.[6] She was Cayuga and Mohawk,[7] raised on the Six Nations Reserve southwest of Toronto, Ontario. Chrysler lived with an aunt in the Cabbagetown neighbourhood of Toronto and worked at the Coro jewellery plating factory. She met James Patrick Robertson at the factory and they married in 1942.[8] Rosemarie and James Robertson continued to work at the factory where they met. The family lived in several homes in different Toronto neighbourhoods when Robbie was a child.[9]: 55 [10]: 65 He often travelled with his mother to the Six Nations Reserve to visit her family. It was here that Robertson was mentored in playing guitar by family members, in particular his older cousin Herb Myke. He became a fan of rock ‘n’ roll and R&B through the radio, listening to disc jockey George “Hound Dog” Lorenz play rock ‘n’ roll on WKBW in Buffalo, New York, and staying up at night to listen to disc jockey John R.’s all-night blues show on WLAC, a clear-channel station in Nashville, Tennessee.[11]: 56 [12]: 65–66 When Robertson was in his early teens, his parents separated. His mother revealed to Robertson that his biological father was not James, but Alexander David Klegerman, a man she met working at the Coro factory. Klegerman was Jewish.[13] He became a professional gambler and was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the Queen Elizabeth Way. She had been with Klegerman while James Robertson was stationed in Newfoundland with the Canadian Army before they married. After telling Robertson, his mother arranged for the youth to meet his paternal uncles Morris (Morrie) and Nathan (Natie) Klegerman.[14][15][16] Career When Robertson was 14, he worked two brief summer jobs in the travelling carnival circuit, first for a few days in a suburb of Toronto, and later as an assistant at a freak show for three weeks during the Canadian National Exhibition. He later drew from this for his song “Life is a Carnival” (with the Band) and the movie Carny (1980), which he both produced and starred in.[17] The first band Robertson joined was Little Caesar and the Consuls, formed in 1956 by pianist/vocalist Bruce Morshead and guitarist Gene MacLellan. He stayed with the group for almost a year, playing popular songs of the day at local teen dances. In 1957 he formed Robbie and the Rhythm Chords with his friend Pete “Thumper” Traynor (who would later found Traynor Amplifiers). They changed the name to Robbie and the Robots after they watched the film Forbidden Planet and took a liking to the film’s character Robby the Robot. Traynor customized Robertson’s guitar for the Robots, fitting it with antennae and wires to give it a space age look. Traynor and Robertson joined with pianist Scott Cushnie and became The Suedes. At a Suedes show on October 5, 1959, when they played CHUM Radio’s Hif Fi Club on Toronto’s Merton Street, Ronnie Hawkins first became aware of them and was impressed enough to join them for a few numbers. [10]: 66 [11]: 56–57 [18][19] With Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks Robertson began shadowing Hawkins. After the Suedes opened for the Arkansas-based rockabilly group Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks at Dixie Arena, Hawkins hired Robertson for the Hawks’ road crew.[20] Hawkins recorded two songs co-credited to Robertson, “Hey Baba Lou” and “Someone Like You”, for his album Mr. Dynamo (1959), and brought Robertson to the Brill Building in New York City to help him choose songs for the rest of the album.[1]: 14–15 [10]: 66–67 [18]: 45–46 Hawkins hired pianist Scott Cushnie away from the Suedes, and took him on tour in Arkansas with the Hawks. When the Hawks’ bass player left the group, Cushnie recommended that Hawkins hire Robertson to replace him on bass.[18]: 49, 51–52 [21] Hawkins invited Robertson to Arkansas, and then flew to the UK to perform on television there. Left in Arkansas, Robertson spent his living allowance on records and practised intensively each day. Upon returning, Hawkins hired him to play bass. Cushnie left the band a few months later.[21] Robertson soon switched from bass to playing lead guitar for the Hawks.[1]: 20–22 [10]: 68–70, 75 Robertson developed into a guitar virtuoso.[22] Roy Buchanan, a few years older than Robertson, was briefly a member of the Hawks and became an important influence on Robertson’s guitar style: “Standing next to Buchanan on stage for several months, Robertson was able to absorb Buchanan’s deft manipulations with his volume speed dial, his tendency to bend multiple strings for steel guitar-like effect, his rapid sweep picking and his passion for bending past the root and fifth notes during solo flights.”[23] Drummer/singer Levon Helm was already a member of the Hawks and soon became close friends with Robertson.[10]: 76 The Hawks continued to tour the United States and Canada, adding Rick Danko, Richard Manuel, and Garth Hudson to the Hawks lineup in 1961.[24] This lineup, which later became the Band, toured with Hawkins throughout 1962 and into 1963.[10]: 95, 100 They also hired the saxophone player Jerry Penfound and later Bruce Bruno, who were both with the group in their intermediary period as Levon and the Hawks.[25][26] Ronnie Hawkins and the Hawks cut sessions for Roulette Records throughout 1961–1963, all of which Robertson appeared on. The sessions included three singles: “Come Love” b/w “I Feel Good” (Roulette 4400 1961); “Who Do You Love” b/w “Bo Diddley” (Roulette 4483 1963); and “There’s A Screw Loose” b/w “High Blood Pressure” (Roulette 4502 1963).[18]: 420 [27] With Levon and the Hawks The Hawks left Ronnie Hawkins at the beginning of 1964 to go on their own.[28] The members of the Hawks were losing interest in playing in the rockabilly style and favoured blues and soul music. In early 1964, the group approached agent Harold Kudlets about representing them, which he agreed to do, booking them a year’s worth of shows in the same circuits as they had been in before with Ronnie Hawkins. Originally dubbed The Levon Helm Sextet, the group included all of the future members of the Band, plus Jerry Penfound on saxophone and Bob Bruno on vocals.[10]: 105–106 After Bruno left in May 1964, the group changed their name to Levon and the Hawks. Penfound stayed with the group until 1965.[25] Kudlets kept the group busy performing throughout 1964 and into 1965, finally booking them into two lengthy summer engagements at the popular nightclub Tony Mart’s in Somers Point, New Jersey, at the Shore.[11]: 64–66, 68 They played six nights a week alongside Conway Twitty and other acts.[29] The members of Levon and the Hawks befriended blues artist John P. Hammond while he was performing in Toronto in 1964.[18]: 84–85 Later in the year, the group agreed to work on Hammond’s album So Many Roads (released in 1965) at the same time that they were playing the Peppermint Lounge in New York City.[11]: 65 Robertson played guitar throughout the album, and was billed “Jaime R. Robertson” in the album’s credits.[10]: 110 Levon and the Hawks cut a single “Uh Uh Uh” b/w “Leave Me Alone” under the name the Canadian Squires in March 1965. Both songs were written by Robertson. The single was recorded in New York[11]: 66 and released on Apex Records in the United States and on Ware Records in Canada.[30]: 95 As Levon and the Hawks, the group cut an afternoon session for Atco Records later in 1965,[18]: 81 which yielded two singles, “The Stones I Throw” b/w “He Don’t Love You” (Atco 6383) and “Go, Go, Liza Jane” b/w “He Don’t Love You” (Atco 6625).[18]: 420 Robertson also wrote all three of the tracks on Levon and the Hawks’ Atco singles.[30]: 95
