=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science ...]
Sep 1, 2005 · The Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science is awarded to Dr. Richard M. Karp for his contributions to the understanding of computational complexity. His work helps programmers find workable solution procedures avoiding approaches that would fail to find a solution in a reasonable amount of time. Scientific, commercial, or industrial situations where his work applies include ...
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001600320500044X

[Seven Receive Franklin Medals - Physics Today]
Jul 1, 2004 · The winner of the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science is Richard M. Karp, University Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley.
URL: https://physicstoday.aip.org/news/seven-receive-franklin-medals

[The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science ...]
Sep 1, 2005 · The Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science is awarded to Dr. Richard M. Karp for his contributions to the understanding of computational complexity. His work helps programmers ...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/245185312_The_2004_Benjamin_Franklin_Medal_in_Computer_and_Cognitive_Science_presented_to_Richard_M_Karp

[The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive ...]
The Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science is awarded to Dr. Richard M. Karp for his contributions to the understanding of computational complexity. His work helps programmers find workable solution procedures avoiding approaches
URL: https://www.academia.edu/26201940/The_2004_Benjamin_Franklin_Medal_in_Computer_and_Cognitive_Science_presented_to_Richard_M_Karp

[Judea Pearl : Awards | Carnegie Corporation of New York]
A member of the National Academy of Engineering and a founding fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, Pearl has won numerous prizes, including the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science.
URL: https://www.carnegie.org/awards/honoree/judea-pearl/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science ...] ---
No content


--- [Seven Receive Franklin Medals - Physics Today] ---
Seven Receive Franklin Medals DOI: 10.1063/1.2408581 The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia handed out its awards for 2004 to seven individuals for their achievements in physics, among other scientific fields. The awards ceremony was held this past April. The institute honored Seymour Benzer with its Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science, which was accompanied by a purse of $250 000, for his “pioneering discoveries that both founded and greatly advanced the field of neurogenetics, thereby transforming our understanding of the brain.” Benzer began his career as a solid-state physicist but later switched to biology. He currently is James G. Boswell Professor of Neuroscience, Emeritus, at Caltech. Raymond V. Damadian garnered the Bower Award for Business Leadership for his “development of magnetic resonance imaging used in clinical applications, which has transformed the diagnosis and treatment of disease.” He is chairman and president of the FONAR Corp, which develops and manufactures MRI scanners, in Melville, New York. This year’s Benjamin Franklin Medal in Chemistry went to Harry Gray, Arnold O. Beckman Professor of Chemistry at Caltech. He was recognized for his “pioneering contributions in the field of electron transfer in metalloproteins.” The winner of the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science is Richard M. Karp, University Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley. The institute acknowledged his “contributions to the understanding of computational complexity” and said that his work “helps programmers find workable solution procedures, avoiding approaches that would fail to find a solution in a reasonable amount of time.” The citation adds, “Scientific, commercial or industrial situations where his work applies include establishing least-cost schedules for industrial production, transportation routing, circuit layout, communication network design, and predicting the spatial structure of a protein from its amino acid sequencing.” Robert E. Newnham, Alcoa Professor Emeritus of Solid State Science at the Pennsylvania State University in University Park, received the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Electrical Engineering. He was cited for his “invention of multiphase piezoelectric transducers and their spatial architecture, which revolutionized the field of acoustic imaging.” The institute presented its Benjamin Franklin Medal in Mechanical Engineering to Roger Bacon, who retired in 1991 from his position as a senior research associate with BP Amoco Corp and then consulted for BP Amoco (now BP Corp) on government contracts until 1999. He was honored for his “fundamental research on the production of graphite whiskers and the determination of their microstructure and properties, for his pioneering development efforts in the production of the world’s first continuously processed carbon fibers and the world’s first high modulus, high strength carbon fibers using rayon precursors, and for his contributions to the development of carbon fibers from alternative starting materials.” Robert B. Meyer is this year’s recipient of the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Physics. A professor of physics at Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts, Meyer was cited for his “creative synthesis of theory and experiment demonstrating that tilted, layered liquid crystal phases of chiral molecules are ferroelectric, thus launching both fundamental scientific advancement in the field of soft condensed matter physics and the development of liquid crystal displays that meet the demands of current technology.”


--- [The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science ...] ---
No content


--- [The 2004 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive ...] ---
References (21) Jerome B. Wiesner (Fahrney) Leadership in science and technology 1988 Donald E. Knuth (Franklin) Theory of computation and typeface design 1989 Larry L. Smarr (Fahrney) Leadership in supercomputer centers 1991George A. Miller (Levy) Cognitive science-key developer of cognitive psychology 1992 Allen Newell (Levy) Development of languages and architecture to make computers intelligent 1996Frederick P. Brooks (Bower Science) Defining a concept of computer architecture 1999Douglas C. Engelbart (Benjamin Franklin-Computer & Cognitive Science) Development of computer software and hardware including invention of the ''mouse'' 1999 Noam Chomsky (Benjamin Franklin-Computer & Cognitive Science) Cognitive science and programming language 2000 John Cocke (Benjamin Franklin-Computer & Cognitive Science) Development of Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC)2002 Lucy Suchman (Benjamin Franklin-Computer & Cognitive Science) Contributions to ethnographic analysis, conversational analysis, and participatory design techniques for the development of interactive computer systems 2003 John McCarthy (Benjamin Franklin-Computer & Cognitive Science) Contributions to the foundations of artificial intelligence and computer science including the development of the LISP language, the invention of time-sharing interactive programming, and key developments in the application of formal logic to common sense reasoningLaureate biography Born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1930, Dr. Richard M. Karp has a 1955 B.A. in Mathematics and a 1959 Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from Harvard University. He was a Research Scientist at the Mathematical Sciences Department of IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center. From 1968-1995 he was a Professor of Computer Science, Mathematics, and Operations Research at the University of California, Berkeley. During the period 1995-1999 he was a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering and an Adjunct Professor of Molecular Biotechnology at the University of Washington. In 1999 he returned to Berkeley as a University ReferencesR. Karp, Combinatorics, complexity, and randomness, Commun. ACM 29 (2) (1986) 98-109.A.M. Turing, On computable numbers, with an application to the Entscheidungsproblem, Proc. London Math. Soc. 42 (1936) 230-265.D.C. Kozen, Automata and Computability, Springer, New York, 1997.M. Sipser, Introduction to the Theory of Computation, PWS Publishing, Boston, 1997.J. Hartmanis, R.E. Stearns, On the computational complexity of algorithms, Trans. Am. Math. Soc. 117 (1965) 285-305.J. Edmonds, Paths, trees and flowers, Can. J. Math. 17 (3) (1965) 449-467.A. Cobham, The intrinsic computational difficulty of functions, in: Y. Bar-Hillel (Ed.), Proceedings of the International Congress for Logic, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1964, pp. 24-30.S.A. Cook, R.A. Reckhow, Time-bounded random-access machines, J. Comp. Syst. Sci. 7 (4) (1973) 354-375.S.A. Cook, The complexity of theorem-proving procedures, Proceedings of the 3rd ACM Symposium Th. Comp., Association for Computing Machinery, New York, 1971, pp. 151-158.Universal Search Problems (in Russian), Problemy Peredachi Informatsii 9 (3) (1973) 115-116.R.M. Karp, Reducibility among combinatorial problems, in: R.E. Miller, J.W. Thatcher (Eds.), Complexity of Computer Computations, Plenum Press, New York, 1972, pp. 85-104.R.M. Karp, Probabilistic analysis of partitioning algorithms for the traveling-salesman problem in the plane, Math. Oper. Res. 2 (3) (1977) 209-244.D. Hocbaum (Ed.), Approximation Algorithms for NP-Hard Problems, PWS Publishing, Boston, 1997.T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest, C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, second ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, 2001.R.M. Karp, E. Upfal, W. Wigderson, Constructing a perfect matching in random NCS, Combinatorica 6 (1986) 35-48.


--- [Judea Pearl : Awards | Carnegie Corporation of New York] ---
Judea Pearl was born in 1936 into a Jewish family from Poland in the town of Bnei Brak, near Tel Aviv, which was under British mandate at the time. Pearl credits his interest in science to growing up in the newly independent state of Israel, where his generation was taught by “great scientists” who had been forced to flee Nazi Germany and who saw their young students as “the embodiment of their academic and scientific dreams.” Following Pearl’s army service, he joined a kibbutz, but left the agrarian communal life to study electrical engineering at the Technion, Israel’s prestigious technical institute. Pearl moved to the United States in 1960. Arriving with just $56 in his pocket, he was determined to pursue his graduate school studies. To cover his tuition, Pearl started working on computer memory at the RCA David Sarnoff Research Laboratories in Princeton, New Jersey. It was the early days of computer research. He received a master’s degree in physics from Rutgers University and a PhD from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. (Scientists would later use the term “Pearl vortex” to refer to the type of superconducting current that was first described by Pearl when he was a graduate student.) After completing his studies, Pearl worked on superconductive parametric and storage devices at RCA Laboratories and at the California-based Electronic Memories, Inc. When the development of large-scale semiconductor memories left Pearl jobless, he decided to pursue his other passion, artificial intelligence, which he calls “a metaphor for capturing human intuition.” He joined the faculty of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1970. As professor of computer science and statistics, director of the Cognitive Systems Laboratory, and, since his retirement in 1994, emeritus professor of computer science at UCLA, he published an extensive body of work, including the landmark books Heuristics (1984), Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems (1988), and Causality (2000; 2009). Pearl is known for his transformative contributions to artificial intelligence, human reasoning, and the philosophy of science. His work on probability and causality has had an impact on fields as varied as medicine and political science, and is credited, for example, with making possible the voice recognition devices that are widely used today. A member of the National Academy of Engineering and a founding fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, Pearl has won numerous prizes, including the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science. In 2011, Pearl was awarded the Turing Award, considered the Nobel Prize of the computing world, “for his fundamental contributions to artificial intelligence through the development of a calculus for probabilistic and causal reasoning.” Pearl is also the president of the Daniel Pearl Foundation, which preserves the legacy of his son, Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was killed by terrorists in Pakistan in 2002. The foundation aims to promote cross-cultural dialogue and understanding, counter intolerance, support responsible journalism, and inspire unity through music worldwide. https://twitter.com/yudapearl
