=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[BBC One - Happy Valley - Episode guide]
Episode 1 1/6 Catherine discovers the remains of a murder victim, and it leads her to Tommy Lee Royce.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06zqjpj/episodes/guide

[Happy Valley recap: series 2, episode 1 – scars, sheep-rustlers and a serial ...]
Feb 9, 2016 — A briefing reveals that the body found by Catherine was Lynn Dewhurst – Tommy's mother. Tommy is in his cell watching daytime telly. The ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2016/feb/09/happy-valley-recap-series-2-episode-1-scars-sheep-rustlers-and-a-serial-killer

[List of Happy Valley episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Happy Valley episodes Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series created by Sally Wainwright and produced by Red Production Company. The first series of six episodes started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 29 April 2014. It was released on Netflix in the United States and Canada on 20 August 2014. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Happy_Valley_episodes

[Everything to Remember From 'Happy Valley's Second Season]
May 16, 2023 — We kick off with Catherine discovering the body of Lynn Dewhurst, the mother of Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton), in a council estate garage.
URL: https://www.tellyvisions.org/happy-valley-season-2-recap/

[Happy Valley S2:E1 Episode 2.1 Recap - Ginges Be Cray]
Has anyone been watching the second season of BBC One series Happy Valley? I loved the first season and I couldn't really say why, it was very grim and bleak, but I think Sarah Lancashire as Catherine Cawood was just THAT good. On to the second season with a quick spoil of the last. When last we saw Catherine, she'd put away Tommy (the presumed (maybe) rapist of her daughter and father of ...
URL: https://gingesbecray.com/happy-valley-s2e1-episode-2-1-recap/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [BBC One - Happy Valley - Episode guide] ---
Main content Happy Valley Episodes Episode guide - All - Available now (18) - Next on (0) - The Story So Far Catch up with series one of this thrilling crime drama with a five minute recap. Catch up with series one of this thrilling crime drama with a five minute recap.


--- [Happy Valley recap: series 2, episode 1 – scars, sheep-rustlers and a serial ...] ---
“Sheep-rustling?” Eighteen months after she rescued her grandson Ryan from the clutches of his biological father – the kidnapper, murderer and rapist Tommy Lee Royce – Sgt Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) is back on familiar ground. Sitting outside the house she shares with her meek sister Clare (Siobhan Finneran), Catherine enjoys telling her incredulous sibling the story of three lads in Halifax who, while “off their heads on acid”, stole a sheep and let it loose on a housing estate, where it was mauled by dogs. A comic anecdote – even if it’s a bloody one involving savaged livestock – seems an audacious way for writer Sally Wainwright to open season two of a show that in 2014 was critics’ and audiences’ top new drama of the year. Then it was a gripping, unflinchingly brutal thriller. What’s this? Happy Valley is about how drugs and poverty makepeople do stupid things. For a policewoman given the impossible task of cleaning up Yorkshire’s Calder Valley, every day is a cavalcade of criminal idiocy. But boredom and fecklessness tip over easily into rage and serious violence – and Catherine treats the farce and horror as twin impostors. They’re never far apart. As the flashback continues, she’s nicking the sheep-rustlers and trying to ignore them spitting abuse at her, when she notices a smell coming from a nearby lock-up. Inside is a rotting human corpse. Roll titles. After that brilliant cold opening, we’re in an unfamiliar semi-detached house. A middle-aged dad (Kevin Doyle) barely listens as three kids bicker with Mum (Julie Hesmondhalgh). Dad gets a worrying text. He sneaks out – nobody notices – and down the road to where a woman (Amelia Bullmore), younger and more glamorous than his wife, is in her car. “I’ve phoned you 16 times!” Her neck veins are bulging. He blames work stress, but this looks like less than half the real reason. “I love you!” “Yeah ... I’ll ring you.” Helen Gallagher lies in a hospice bed, watched over by her husband and daughter, Nevison and Ann – the target and victim of season one’s horribly bungled ransom plot. Clare is there too, relaying the story of Catherine and the sheep, and providing light black comedy through her insistence on mouthing “dead body” and “decomposed” like Les Dawson gossiping with Roy Barraclough. Nevison and Ann argue mildly about the new job she’s been training for … “Forget everything they taught you in training, because none of it works in the real world” The next day is Ann’s first on the force, working under Catherine, whose blast of motherly advice is a typically tight piece of script that skilfully references their shared past. In season one, Catherine’s protégé Kirsten was murdered while on duty by Tommy , who years before raped Catherine’s daughter Becky, driving her to suicide. After Ann and Catherine helped each other escape from Royce, Ann vowed not to become a victim. She’s following through on that now, but it means Catherine has another surrogate daughter to worry about. Homicide detectives have arrived. Two of them are Vincent Franklin and Katherine Kelly and another is John, the philandering dad. A briefing reveals that the body found by Catherine was Lynn Dewhurst – Tommy’s mother. Tommy is in his cell watching daytime telly. The prison chaplain comes in and gives Tommy the news, needlessly adding that Lynn was sexually assaulted. He’s petrified, as are we, that Tommy could spring off the bed at any second and punch the messenger. Instead, he breaks down. James Norton nails it: shock – and then tears – but with a hint of steel, he already starts planning his revenge. As the police investigation begins, John finally rings his mistress, Vicky. She isn’t pleased when John – oh no, John, mate, don’t – dumps her by phone. But she has something to bargain with. That police warrant card he lost? She’s found it under her bed, and tells him to meet her later to get it back. At the nick, Catherine is indignant at being grilled by Kelly’s young detective about some threatening voicemails she left Tommy’s mother. Lancashire is fabulous once again: Catherine chatters with her signature mix of nous and defiance about how Lynn had approached Ryan after school, in breach of a court order. It’s a poised two-hander, with Kelly officious and brusque, and Lancashire edgy and desperate beneath Catherine’s bluster. Another theme of Happy Valley is Catherine’s inability to stop the tide of brutality sweeping into her own family: even with Tommy in prison, his mother wouldn’t go away. Even with his mother dead, they still cause strife. Outside, Ann passes on hearsay about the assault Lynn suffered: she was raped with a broken bottle. Happy Valley can get away with such an extreme image because of its depth of realism, and not be charged with indulging in gratuitous nastiness. Catherine comes home, fuming, to find Clare at the kitchen table with her old schoolfriend Neil. She bumped into him earlier and was charmed by a similarly humble, troubled soul back on the scene after a divorce. A subtle performance by Con O’Neill alerts us there’s a story he isn’t telling – Clare doesn’t notice that he leaves when he sees Catherine’s police badge. “That’s not how I feel, John. I’m ... disappointed.” John meets Vicky in a country pub. She’s waiting for him, pint on table, and listens as he splurges a barely improved attempt to brush her off. In jail, Tommy discusses his mum with a visitor. Everything that was great in season one about Norton’s performance is back, as he makes us feel pity as well as fear and disgust. There’s boiling misogyny in his sweeping observation that “I know how a bitch like that [Catherine] thinks.” When he talks about how that bitch has obviously committed murder and will now be protected by a police cover-up, we see how deluded he is. Across the table is Frances, a ratty woman played by another big name, Shirley Henderson. Her first scene is an amazingly bold and physical piece of acting. Frances is grotesquely flirty, getting off on being Tommy’s confidante despite, or because of, the hate he’s spewing. When he stops ranting, she strokes his head and says she loves him. Brrrrrrr. John, drugged, was helped into his car outside the pub by Vicky and, having briefly woken to find himself naked and alone in a budget hotel, now comes round once more. It’s morning and he’s in his car. John’s not an especially large man but Vicky must either have an accomplice, or superhuman strength when wronged. Anyway, he’s just in time for work, where it’s announced that Lynn is the latest victim of a serial killer. “Just tick the boxes!” If a serial killer is targeting prostitutes, Catherine is clearly innocent, but homicide still want their alibi. This brings out the only element of Sgt Cawood’s character that leans toward cliche: she’s a no-nonsense maverick who hates bureaucracy, and runs rings round her box-ticker boss Mike when he asks her to comply. Have her dim colleagues thought to head to where the local sex workers tout for business? Of course they haven’t, so Catherine drives to the red light district with a carrier bag of sandwiches for two jittery, emaciated girls she knows by name. Their hopeless inadequacy is eerily like that of the addled Lynn, who could never get off drugs and ended up raising a killer. Ryan is at home with his uncle Daniel, Catherine’s estranged son who’s come to kip on the sofa because his marriage is crumbling. Daniel carelessly mentions that he wouldn’t be drinking beer if Clare were in the house. Her status as a recovering addict is another hideous secret from which Ryan hasn’t quite been shielded. Just as John’s lying to his wife about his whereabouts last night, Vicky texts him photos of himself unconscious in the hotel wearing women’s underwear. She’ll forward them to everyone he knows if he doesn’t give her £1,000 a month, in cash … So, what did you think of Happy Valley’s return? Anything featuring Kevin Doyle, Julie Hesmondhalgh and Amelia Bullmore promises excellence. That should dispel the feeling that the new John/Vicky strand is, so far, a fairly boilerplate spurned-woman blackmail tale, which doesn’t interact with what we’re really interested in: Catherine Cawood versus Tommy Lee Royce. Can Wainwright concoct a reason for them to face each other again? Mystery of the week What is the deal with Catherine and Clare’s back yard? They’ve not actually got one: they’ve taken advantage of living in the last house on a dead-end street and put their table, chairs and plant pots in the road. Cheeky. At best, sitting in the street smoking at all hours seems a cavalier attitude to the ever-looming threat of Yorkshire’s worst criminals. No-nonsense idiom of the week Time for Netflix to call the subtitlers when this episode hits the US: “You could never be certain lift’d gone to t’top floor, her brain were so addled wi’ crap” – Catherine on why she rang Lynn a second time. Hurt in the line of duty Happy Valley promo shots demand thatLancashire sport a battle wound and, sure enough, by the time she’s told the sheep anecdote she’s already acquired a cut cheek. It must be from struggling to arrest the tripping farm-burglars, but we don’t see it happen and Catherine is so used to being punched by low-lifes, she doesn’t even mention it. Nails.


--- [List of Happy Valley episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series created by Sally Wainwright and produced by Red Production Company. The first series of six episodes started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 29 April 2014.  It was released on Netflix in the United States and Canada on 20 August 2014. A second six-episode series began airing on BBC One on 9 February 2016 and was made available on Netflix in the US later that year.
The BBC announced Series 3 on 26 October 2021 with filming scheduled to begin in 2022. Series 3 started airing on BBC One on 1 January 2023.




--- [Everything to Remember From 'Happy Valley's Second Season] ---
Everything to Remember From 'Happy Valley's Second Season Season 2 of the celebrated Yorkshire police drama Happy Valley starts as it means to go on: with Sergeant Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) absolutely worn out. Over a cuppa with her sister Clare (Siobhan Finneran), she recounts an escapade with a kidnapped sheep rampaging across town pursued by local dogs before she had to put it out of its misery with a heavy rock. If that wasn’t enough, all the dogs that bit the sheep died of poison in the sheep’s system, finishing off the anecdote with a nice little “you won’t believe this” bow. If this anecdote seems to stretch credibility, a little bloated, or be tonally confused, you’ll be glad to know that Happy Valley Season 2 mostly manages to avoid the same descriptors. Still, compared to Season 1, it’s a bigger, messier, and more imperfect beast. Many strands run throughout the sophomore outing’s six episodes. We kick off with Catherine discovering the body of Lynn Dewhurst, the mother of Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton), in a council estate garage. She’s been badly mutilated, including in the genital area, and it doesn’t take long for the police to link the killing with two previous murders of sex workers in the area – launching the criminal investigation Operation Syracuse.


--- [Happy Valley S2:E1 Episode 2.1 Recap - Ginges Be Cray] ---
Has anyone been watching the second season of BBC One series Happy Valley? I loved the first season and I couldn’t really say why, it was very grim and bleak, but I think Sarah Lancashire as Catherine Cawood was just THAT good. On to the second season with a quick spoil of the last. When last we saw Catherine, she’d put away Tommy (the presumed (maybe) rapist of her daughter and father of her grandchild) AND a crime ring. We open at Catherine (Sarah Lancashire) and her sister Clare (Siobhan Finneran) discussing sheep rustling “North Halifax style”, which means no yee-haws or cowboys but rather one sheep and three lads off their heads on acid. Oh man, the sheep got away and the dogs got the poor thing, it’s Tabitha from The Walking Dead all over again, that’s not right. Catherine’s got to put it down, it can’t even bleat. She doesn’t have a gun (they don’t carry), and there aren’t any vets (?) so she raises a big rock to smash it’s brains in and then has to again “and then it seemed all right after that.” Good lord. Can you see why I like this show so much and how it makes no sense that I do? Catherine is interviewing the farmers who owned the sheep, who they say were raised for breeding, not for eating, “it’ll be tough as an old boo-it.” but the really “funny” part comes after that, well, not funny exactly, more ironic: Catherine didn’t kill the sheep when she thought she did. A vet finally showed up and shot poor not-Tabitha up with phenobarb and the dogs decided to have another run at it and then THEY died, after ingesting the sheep-filtered phenobarb. So all over North Halifax are dead dogs just randomly on the side of the road. In the meanwhile, Catherine got a line on the sheep rustlers and got them packed up properly, smelling some meat that had gone well off nearby. She opens a door to find a dead body covered in flies. We finally get the credits and theme song, you’ve got to listen to it once, just to hear the beauty of it. It sounds like a coal-mining song, all guitars and I thought it was a woman, but no! It’s a very young man, Jack Bugg This is such a female-centric and driven show that I think that’s why I just assumed that was a woman, but nope! We’re at a family breakfast, lots of kids, very middle to upper-middle class and suddenly the dad gets a text; come outside and meet me in front of your house or I’m coming in (paraphrasing). He runs outside to find: a frantic skinny blonde angry and worried because he hasn’t rung or called in 5 days. She thought he’d DIED! They clearly are having an affair and he just as clearly is no longer interested, when she says “I love you”, he answers “Yeah, I’ll ring you” so the bloom is off that English rose. We’re at the hospital, visiting Ann Gallagher’s (Charlie Murphy) mother, who was dying of cancer last we saw. She’s still alive, but it’s not looking great. A very quick synopsis of the Gallaghers from last year: Kevin Wetherill (Steve Pemberton) was another middle to upper-middle class gentleman with a family; he wanted to send his daughter to a good school, so he asked his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan) for what the British call a rise (and what the rest of us call a raise). Nevison said “no” in order to avoid the precedent, but then changed his mind shortly thereafter, given that Kevin’s father had helped start that very same company. Nevison had been distraught, he explained, and a little discombobulated, his wife has just been diagnosed with cancer. However, a very angry Kevin had already put a plan in motion to get the money he needed; he asked his friendly local mobster to kidnap Nevison’s daughter Ann for a few days, and take his school fees in ransom. Kevin subsequently tried to stop the plan going forward, but as these things do, they’d already taken on a life of their own. Ann was kidnapped, raped and assaulted for several days by a violent criminal named Tommy, who was connected to Catherine in ways we can talk about later. All caught up on the Gallaghers? Good! I clearly have no idea what the words “very quick” mean either. At the bedside is Clare as well, she tells the Gallaghers about Catherine finding the dead body, so badly decomposed they can’t even identify gender. Holeee shite, Ann is now a copper. I guess she fits in for Kristen McAskill (Sophie Rundle), a young PC (police constable?) who was killed in the first season by the thugs kidnapping Ann. Catherine does her meeting spiel for the PCs, I love how she says that there are Forensic teams crawling everywhere because of “the body that was found, that I FOUND” and their deployments will all be messed up. The dead body investigative team is brainstorming, they’re starting with CCTV and they want to know if John is absorbing it through osmosis? It’s the cheating husband from a little while ago! There’s a police sergeant present and he says he knows who the body is. The head of the meeting groans theatrically, but when the sergeant stops Catherine to talk about it, she groans for entirely different reasons. He thinks it’s Tommy Lee Royce’s mom, Lynne Dewhurst. I’d better explain about Tommy now. Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) is the father of Catherine’s grandson Ryan (Rhys Connah) and a violent career criminal with multiple convictions and jail sentences. Catherine had been told by her now-deceased daughter that Tommy raped her, and that was how Ryan was conceived. At the beginning of the first season, Tommy had just been released from jail again and Catherine tracking his movements is what lead her to everything else. Later on, Catherine’s son Daniel disputed the rape allegations against Tommy, but since we know he DID rape Ann Gallagher, it’s hard to say what’s true and what isn’t. At the end of last season, Tommy had found out about Ryan and kidnapped him, to be caught by Catherine and returned to jail. His mother was a piece of work herself, allowing him to keep Ann in their basement in exchange for a few hundred extra pounds in rent money. Caught up on Tommy? Good! The body is between 3 to 5 weeks post-mortem, which means something important to Catherine I gather. Tommy is morosely watching TV in his cell, so much food and TV?? Really? In comes a man of the cloth, Tommy teases him “you looks troubled.’ The priest sits and explains that they’ve found a body, the person had been strangled and sexually assaulted and Tommy wants to know what it has to do with him? DNA says it’s his mom and right then it gets very dangerous for the wee religious man in the room. Tommy is all menace and eyes flat as a whip. Tommy cries as the priest goes on to say that detectives will be by to see him shortly to ask about her lifestyle, friends, etc. Clare meets her old friend Neil (Con O’Neill) on the street while looking for work; they get caught up (he’s divorced, she’s had “entanglements”) awww and they eye cuddle and grin at each other goofily for a while. You know, that’s the great thing about old lovers and old potential lovers; they only see you as you were, and any extra bits or lines; it’s as though they don’t exist. They don’t even see it, because they’ve already gotten to the important bits, the person under alla that. Ann is helping our nervous John; he gets another call from Anxious Blonde, who he summarily blows off AGAIN. Ann notes his behaviour and calls affair immediately to Shafiq (Shane Zaza); John’s mind just isn’t on the job at all. She asks Shafiq why they hate helping the Wooden Tops so much; he says it’s because the Plastic Tops (them) do all the actual work, while the WTs just sit around on their fat arses bending paperclips and everyone gets paid the same. The WTs don’t return the favour, either, so it’s all very unfair. John finally does call his ladyfriend back, and she tries not to cry while he says he doesn’t want to do this any more. She says she has some of his things, though, including his warrant card and there’s a tone of blackmail under all that. She says she’ll be at the pub that evening and she won’t be waiting. Nevison is having more trouble with staff; he’s firing an obstreperous young man for poor driving with the company truck, it’s very antagonistic. Just as he’s leaving, the fired former employee asks after Mrs. Gallagher, which sends Nevison rushing off. Catherine is meeting with another member of the investigative team, discussing the discovery of Tommy Lee Royce’s mother’s body. That’s a problem, see, Catherine has had dealings with all of family and all of that will have to be checked out thoroughly. Catherine explains that Lynn had found out about Ryan being her grandson and had gone ’round to see him five or six weeks ago, violating the restraining order Catherine has against Royce directly or indirectly contacting Ryan. DO YOU THINK I COULD GET SOME MORE WORDS IN THAT SENTENCE? I’ll try harder next time! Catherine stopped by to see Lynn, no answer, and left a few messages, which she says *may* have sounded threatening, which is probably the reason for this particular line of inquiry. You’ve got to see Sarah Lancashire in this role, you have to, she’s magic, truly. The understated gravity mixed with the tiniest suggestion of wonderment at the ridiculousness of it all: she’s incomparable. The detective breaks it down for her; given the circumstances, Catherine has to “go away” and give an accounting of her wheareabouts for the two-week period in question: July 23 to August 6. She tells Catherine she’s not a suspect, who rebuts with a immobile eye-roll at “everyone was a suspect when I was in H-Ment(or whatever they’re called – haven’t made that out just yet)” She doesn’t really say if that involves Leave or not, but next we see Catherine, she’s walking out with Ann at the end of the day. Ann’s flabbergasted at the housekeeping in North Halifax (dogfood, right on the floor! Out of the can! Catherine told her that they were the good owners: at least they fed their dogs) but really, she wants to pass on that she’s heard from her new partner that Lynne was sexually assaulted, and with a broken bottle, not. Anyway. Motherfcuk. Catherine reminds her that it didn’t have to be a man, there are sick people everywhere. The ones that really get me are the baby-takers. I can’t watch that AT ALL. Neil has come ’round to see Clare already, not wasting any time! They’re talking about his kids and their teenager-hood. Neil says Clare was a rebel, but she says they were just trying to deal with their dad’s death when she was 13. In comes Catherine and Neil rabbits IMMEDIATELY. He said earlier he’d always been intimidated by her, but now I’m wondering if it has anything to do with her police uniform. After Neil scoots, Catherine breaks down in tears, Clare finds her and they talk about what’s going on. Catherine explains that they think she’s offed and bottled (please don’t explain that again) Lynne Dewhurst, her, with her Queen’s Medal of Bravery, who has shaken the Queen’s hand at Buckingham Palace. The detective that was questioning Catherine is D.I. Jody Shackleton (Katherine Kelly) about 15 according to our Catherine, and the daughter of David Shackleton, the Chief Commander and Catherine is having a hard time adjusting to being on the other side of the stick. Clare bursts in with the news that she once “snogged” Neil after a disco and I had to check myself: that means making out, I think, not exchanging ALL bodily fluids. Catherine doesn’t care, because it doesn’t affect her. She’s really a lovely copper, but kind of a crap friend and family member. I’m sure nobody would care if she were male. John is meeting Vicki at the pub, funny how he has time to meet her now that his warrant card is on the line and not just her feelings and common decency. She’s got him a beer (only if he wants it), and he apologizes, he thinks things have “not lived up to it’s early promise?” she suggests? He agrees immediately, and if he didn’t recognise that as a Female Trap with all the pink flags flying, it’s his own fault when he is hoisted on his own petard. They’ve been together for two years and Vicky (Amelia Bullmore) is not sad, just disappointed. In all that time, she says, what he got from it is that his wife isn’t that bad after all. You know he has three kids, after all! It’s complicated, she knows that, surely? She asks how he knows she isn’t going to make life difficult for him, and he asks if she will. He asks if she brought those things, and here is the accumulated detritus of two years of the most tepid-sounding affair ever: a toothbrush (DNA), a black sock (that’s a poser, how do you get your shoes on and not notice a missing sock?), his police warrant card (SERIOUSLY a problem) and they drink to remaining friends. I think he should be very wary of her, and how did this jumpy milquetoast ever pull off an extra-marital affair? At Catherine’s, her son Daniel (Karl Davies – you remember him! He was Alton Lannister!!) shows up with plastic bags full of what must be his clothes, since he says his wife Lucy has kicked him out. A week earlier, but he’s been staying with his Dad, who, well, there’s a complicated history there, too. Do we have time to run through that? Sure we do! Catherine and Richard were married, but divorced after the death of their daughter Becky. Catherine went off the rails and their marriage didn’t survive her obsession with Tommy Lee Royce or her decision to raise Becky’s son, Ryan, who is also Tommy Lee Royce’s son and may or may not be the result of a sexual assault ( I think not, given Tommy and Daniel’s behaviour last season, but Catherine is still clinging to it). Anyway, Richard remarried, to Ros, but he and Catherine were still sleeping together the whole time and eventually he came ’round and started to be a grandpa to Ray. All caught up? Yay! Daniel says his wife wants a divorce, since their daughter Daisy was born, Lucy’s been off her…flaming trolley. Everyone comes in to find out why Daniel will be sleeping on the settee and I just love the kiddo that plays Ryan, it’s Rhys Connah and he’s just the best. Back at the pub, Vicky has clearly drugged our quivering John, she manages to get him to his car and …cut to a nekkid John passed out in bed next to a pile of fluff. I’ve seen much more nekkid middle-aged male arse than I ever needed to, thanks for that, HV. He can’t find anything, no clothes, he appears to be in a hotel room, but passes out again. He comes to once more, fully dressed and in his car, parked in front of the police station. He looks even more wigged out, and I didn’t think that was even possible. The investigative team has learned enough about the murder of Lynn Dewhurst to conclude that it matches the profile of a serial offender at work in the area – that’s good news for Catherine, right? A very slight, very mousy woman is finding her way through the London transit system, to end up watching Tommy Lee Royce cry in the Visitor’s Lounge. This must be a sister? He knew about Catehrine’s calls; he’s the one that mentioned it to the police. MouseLady leans in for a kiss: NOT a sister. We’re back to the station, Catherine isn’t on Leave, and her boss wants to see her, it’s a serial, she’s off the hook, she says, yay! Except, er, instead she needs an alibi for the other two murders, please and thanks, then she can be completely eliminated. Thanks! She says “It’s wank. It’s toss” and she walks out. He follows and asks her to please just tick the boxes, yeah? But she hasn’t any time, she’s got to go murder and bottle some more prostitutes first. But has anyone checked with the ladies on Stoneybrook Road? Warn them? Meanwhile, the sheep farmers are at the station, the male one has been beaten up by the sheep rustlers, they’re there to make a statement. Out on Stoneybrook Road, Catherine is warning the prossies about the serial offender on the loose, she’s brought food and admires the new green eyeliner on Leonie. The brunette doesn’t care, just doesn’t want to be brought in; too many smackheads and processing takes too long; time being money and all. Oh ho, Obstreperous Recently Fired Truck Driver is drunk and making a pass down the lane, he speeds off at the sight of Catherin, but based on that 3 second scene, I am willing to bet on two things: 1) he’s the murderer and 2) Leonie is not long for this world, snazzy lime eyeliner or no. Clare and Catherine are gossiping about Daniel’s marriage and have come to visit Mrs. Gallagher, but a clean and empty bed tells them there won’t be any more. The only thing I really got out of that is that Clare is dying to move out, probably with Neil. Daniel himself is at home having a beer while hanging with Ryan, who asks why he doesn’t have a beer while Aunt Clare is around? Some hemming and hawing later, it comes out that Clare is an alcoholic (that’s a big word for Ryan!) and that’s why nobody drinks around her. Now ‘splain, Daniel! What IS alcoholic? Mouse is checking into a hotel, yay her name is Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson)!! I love it when they speak it directly into the camera like that! She was Moaning Myrtle in Harry Potter! John is at home being questioned by his wife when Vicki “from Forensics” calls; she’s sent a text, could he look, please? It’s pictures of him in lingerie with rentboy magazines and sex toys and she’s downloaded his contact book from his phone; should he not give her 1000 pounds a month from going on, it’s going out to them all. I mean. The pics aren’t THAT bad, he’s clearly passed out in them, I’d risk it. Daniel and Ryan play cards and bond while all of a sudden creepy AF Frances lurks outside, what the hayull?? Ahhhh and that’s it, we’re oot! I love this show! It’s so terrible compelling. Until next time, stay dry, yo.
