=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Camille Clifford - Wikipedia]
Camilla Antoinette Clifford (29 June 1885 - 28 June 1971), known professionally as Camille Clifford, was a Belgian -born stage actress whose short theatrical career was highlighted by her performance as "Miss New York" in the Henry W. Savage production of The Prince of Pilsen, a role in which she impersonated a "Gibson Girl"-like woman.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camille_Clifford

[Camilla Antoinette Clifford (1885-1971) - Find a Grave Memorial]
There was a brief return to the stage for Camille and then in 1917 she married her second husband, a Captain John Evans (to become Brigadier John Meredyth Jones Evans), and bade her final farewell to the stage. Camille Clifford died in 1971 at the start of her 86th year, her son, the Welsh Guards Captain, Robert Victor John Evans surviving her.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/185605256/camilla_antoinette-clifford

[Camilla Antoinette Clifford (1885-1971) • FamilySearch]
Family Time Line Spouse and Children Parents and Siblings John Meredyth Jones Evans 1894-1957 Camilla Antoinette Clifford 1885-1971 Marriage: 9 August 1917 Capt. Robert Victor John Evans 1921-2004
URL: https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/L4NT-7HJ/camilla-antoinette-clifford-1885-1971

[Blog - Page 22 of 30 - Dark Lane Creative]
Dec 26, 2014 — They had one child, Margaret, who was born in August 1909 but only lived a few days. Captain Bruce was killed in action at Ypres in December ...
URL: https://darklanecreative.com/blog/page/22/

[Camille Clifford, perfect body and iconic Gibson Girl]
She married a second time, to Captain John Meredyth Jones Evans on 9 August 1917. After the war, Camille again left the stage, this time for good, and the couple took up residence in Kensington.
URL: https://quellochepiaceavaleria.com/en/camille-clifford-perfect-body-and-iconic-gibson-girl/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Camille Clifford - Wikipedia] ---
Camilla Antoinette Clifford (29 June 1885 – 28 June 1971), known professionally as Camille Clifford, was a Belgian-born stage actress whose short theatrical career was highlighted by her performance as "Miss New York" in the Henry W. Savage production of The Prince of Pilsen, a role in which she impersonated a "Gibson Girl"-like woman. While her towering coiffure and hourglass figure were representative of the Gibson Girl style, she only played the part of a Gibson Girl on the stage, and never actually modeled for any of Charles Dana Gibson's illustrations.


--- [Camilla Antoinette Clifford (1885-1971) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Camilla Antoinette Clifford wrote that she "was a 'Gibson' girl on the vaudeville stage i.e., a young woman chosen because her features recalled the type of female beauty which the American artist Gibson affects in his work. Most collections of vintage Edwardian actress postcards include images of Camille, some collect her alone. Her stage career was short, just four years, but her popularity was such that the postcards are readily available and only a little more expensive than the run of the mill theatrical postcards of that era. She was a singer and actress, but it was her corseted eighteen-inch wasp waist curvaceous figure rather than her performance skills which caused a sensation when she appeared on the London stage. Born in Antwerp in 1885 she was later orphaned and raised by relatives, first in Scandinavia and later in the United States. Camille made her stage debut in the chorus line of a 1902 Broadway production 'The Defender'. By 1904 she had travelled to England as a cast member in the musical comedy "The Prince of Pilsen". With her curvaceous figure and tiny corseted waist Camille immediately attracted attention and she was compared to the fashionable illustrations by American artist Charles Dana Gibson of his Gibson Girls. Miss Clifford sang Leslie Stiles 'Why Do They Call Me A Gibson Girl?' in the production The Belle of Mayfair and in the provinces there was said to be much acclaim for her "famous Gibson Walk". It's said that The Walk was encored and the song was not. Camille retired from the stage in 1906 when she married into the British peerage. Her husband, Henry Lyndhurst Bruce gave her a daughter in 1909 who sadly survived for just five days. Henry Lyndhurst Bruce died in action at Ypres during the 1914 1918 First World War. There was a brief return to the stage for Camille and then in 1917 she married her second husband, a Captain John Evans (to become Brigadier John Meredyth Jones Evans), and bade her final farewell to the stage. Camille Clifford died in 1971 at the start of her 86th year, her son, the Welsh Guards Captain, Robert Victor John Evans surviving her. Camilla Antoinette Clifford wrote that she "was a 'Gibson' girl on the vaudeville stage i.e., a young woman chosen because her features recalled the type of female beauty which the American artist Gibson affects in his work. Most collections of vintage Edwardian actress postcards include images of Camille, some collect her alone. Her stage career was short, just four years, but her popularity was such that the postcards are readily available and only a little more expensive than the run of the mill theatrical postcards of that era. She was a singer and actress, but it was her corseted eighteen-inch wasp waist curvaceous figure rather than her performance skills which caused a sensation when she appeared on the London stage. Born in Antwerp in 1885 she was later orphaned and raised by relatives, first in Scandinavia and later in the United States. Camille made her stage debut in the chorus line of a 1902 Broadway production 'The Defender'. By 1904 she had travelled to England as a cast member in the musical comedy "The Prince of Pilsen". With her curvaceous figure and tiny corseted waist Camille immediately attracted attention and she was compared to the fashionable illustrations by American artist Charles Dana Gibson of his Gibson Girls. Miss Clifford sang Leslie Stiles 'Why Do They Call Me A Gibson Girl?' in the production The Belle of Mayfair and in the provinces there was said to be much acclaim for her "famous Gibson Walk". It's said that The Walk was encored and the song was not. Camille retired from the stage in 1906 when she married into the British peerage. Her husband, Henry Lyndhurst Bruce gave her a daughter in 1909 who sadly survived for just five days. Henry Lyndhurst Bruce died in action at Ypres during the 1914 1918 First World War. There was a brief return to the stage for Camille and then in 1917 she married her second husband, a Captain John Evans (to become Brigadier John Meredyth Jones Evans), and bade her final farewell to the stage. Camille Clifford died in 1971 at the start of her 86th year, her son, the Welsh Guards Captain, Robert Victor John Evans surviving her. Sponsored by Ancestry


--- [Camilla Antoinette Clifford (1885-1971) • FamilySearch] ---
Your web browser is not fully supported. Please update to the latest version to enjoy all that FamilySearch has to offer.


--- [Blog - Page 22 of 30 - Dark Lane Creative] ---
Litanies are sets of prayers arranged in the form of a list of petitions, usually sung or chanted by cantors, to which others provide responses. These vary according to the nature of the petition: the name of saint invites the response Ora pro nobis (Pray for us), a general prayer has the reponse Te rogamus, audi nos (We ask you to hear us), while reference to some evil or misfortune – such as ghosts and ghoulies – requires the response Libera nos, Domine (Deliver us, Lord.) In the traditional litany of saints, these calamities include omni malo (all evil), omni peccato (all sin), insídiis diaboli.(the devil’s wiles), fulgure et tempestate (lightning and storm), a flagello terrae motus (earthquake), a peste (plague), fame et bello (famine and war)…etc. There’s nothing here resembling the contents of the Cornish litany. One explanation for this is that it was a local and perhaps unauthorised ritual, one that was used orally and was never recorded in a liturgical book. Some have claimed that it dates back to the 14th or 15th centuries, but such prayers would then have been in Latin, and the absence of any textual record for several hundred years – linking Pre-Reformation usage to a vernacular translation – is hard to comprehend. Tracing the origins of this phrase has proved far harder than one might have imagined. ‘Long-leggety beastie’ sounds like a distinctively Scottish pronunciation, and indeed in the anthology A Beggar’s Wallet (Edinburgh & London, 1905), edited by Archibald Stodart Walker, there is a contribution by Hugh Munro Warrand which is prefaced with a ‘Scots’ version: Frae ghosties and ghoulies, long-leggetie beasties, And things that go bump in the night, Good lord deliver us. – From a quaint old Litany However, the fact that only the first word is distinctively Scots suggests to me that this ‘quaint old Litany’ was merely an attempt to ‘Scotticize’ a phrase which had been acquired from some other source. A few years later James Withers Gill, a former colonial administrator who helped catalogue the African collections in Exeter’s RAMM, published a scholarly article on ‘Hausa Speech, Its Wit and Wisdom’ in the Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, University of London, Vol. 1, No. 2 (1918), p.46, in which he remarks casually of the inhabitants of Hausaland in the Sudan: ‘To a people nourished on mystery who, in spite of their fatalistic creed, believe in genii, ghosts, goblins, and those terrific things that “go bump in the night”, protective charms are eagerly sought for.’ Again, the phrase is cited without any explanation, as if the author regarded it as commonplace. Then, eight years later, Francis T. Nettleinghame published his Polperro Proverbs & Others (Polperro Press for the Cornish Arts Association, 1926) in which he describes the thriving pokerwork industry in Polperro. Pokerwork, or pyrography (“fire-writing”) involves using heated tools to burn designs into wooden objects and craftworkers in Polperro were doing particularly well selling products that featured ‘the Cornish or West country litany.’ The artwork for these wares was undertaken by Arthur Wragg, rather than Chaplin. That’s really the limit of my knowledge, but an American collector named Debra Meister has done a great deal of research and self-published a book, A Litany…Cornish and Otherwise, which is now in its third edition. I haven’t seen the book yet, but may try and pick up a copy soon. Other sources of information include: Donald T. Matter, ‘The Cornish Litany, a Prayer for All Times’, The McLintock Letter: the quarterly newsletter of the South Jersey Postcard Club. Vol. 11, No.5 (October 2011), pp.1-2 Susan Hack-Lane, ‘A New Look at the Old Cornish Litany’ in Postcard World Magazine (November-December 2011), pp.7-9.


--- [Camille Clifford, perfect body and iconic Gibson Girl] ---
Camille Clifford, perfect body and iconic Gibson Girl Updated 29.09.2025 Early years Camille Clifford was born in Antwerp, Belgium, on 29 June 1885. She was the daughter of Reynold Clifford, an itinerant sailor, and his wife Matilda Ottersen. Her mother died when she was still a child and her father was lost at sea a few years later. Table of contents Orphaned, Camille was sent to live with an aunt in Norway, but was treated badly there. Salvation, however, was not far away and a rich relative living in Boston sent her money for passage to America. On the long sea voyage, the young girl so charmed the crew that they soon found her comfortable accommodation in second class and treated her like a princess, even arranging a party for her when she celebrated her 15th birthday on board. She landed on the American continent under the name Ottersen but quickly discarded that name, which reminded her of her wicked aunt, and insisted from then on to be called Clifford, after her father. Her American relative, Mrs Schilling, was good to her and welcomed her as a daughter. Gibson Girl icon When she was old enough, at her own insistence, Camille entered service as a maid but had always dreamed of bigger things. After leaving domestic service, she worked for a while as a seamstress, then as a saleswoman, practising her English in the meantime, until her Scandinavian accent was completely eliminated, in order to pursue a career on the stage. While in America, she won a competition in a magazine to be ‘the lady who should be… the most representative New York girl according to the famous Dana Gibson pattern‘. This win earned her $2,000 and her success landed her a non-speaking role as ‘Gibson Girl’ in the Prince of Pilsen, a 1904 musical performed in London. The Gibson Girl was an ideal of female beauty popularised by the illustrations of American artist Charles Dana Gibson. In this sense, the ideal woman presented an upright posture with a high head, low shoulders, chest well forward with a long, sloping bust, an incredibly slim waist and a graceful curve at the hips. It was an imaginary ideal that few real women could come close to, but Camille fit the part so perfectly that she could have been the very model on which the drawings were made. Her trademark was a long, elegant dress wrapped around her waspish waist, tightened by a corset of about 45 centimetres! Career and first marriage Taking advantage of her notoriety, actor, author and composer Leslie Stiles wrote a song for her entitled ‘Why do they call me a Gibson Girl‘, which she sang for the first time at London’s Lyceum Theatre in January 1905. Later that year, she appeared in ‘The Catch of the Season’ at the Vaudeville Theatre, and the following year she obtained her most important role to date as the Duchess of Dunmow in ‘The Belle of Mayfair‘, a musical comedy. According to a 1906 review in The Times: ‘Camille Clifford’s voice is not strong, but she wears such well-cut clothes and moves so elegantly up and down the stage that her turn is sure to be popular‘. After a short four-year theatre career, she retired to marry into a noble family. In 1906, Camille married Captain Henry Lyndhurst Bruce, son and heir of Lord Aberdare. Lord Aberdare strongly opposed the union and cut off his son’s allowance, forcing him to find work as a car salesman. Eventually, Lord Aberdare softened towards Camille and restored his son’s allowance so that the couple could live comfortably. The couple had a daughter, Margaret, who was born on 13 August 1909 but unfortunately did not survive, dying only five days later. Her marriage also ended too soon: her husband died in the Great War on 14 December 1914, aged just 33, hit by a bullet during a charge on a German trench. After her husband’s death, Camille made a brief return to the stage, appearing in ‘The Girl of the Future’ at the Finsbury Park Empire and then touring. Second marriage and death She married a second time, to Captain John Meredyth Jones Evans on 9 August 1917. After the war, Camille again left the stage, this time for good, and the couple took up residence in Kensington. Later, they moved to the country, where Camille ran a successful stable of racehorses. They had a son, Robert Victor John Evans. Camille Clifford died on 28 June 1971. In a very short theatrical career, Camille never achieved much as a performer. Her fame stemmed not from her talent as an actress, but from her beauty and in particular the perfection of her physique. All the beautiful women of the time who matched the Gibson model were called ‘Gibson Girls’, but few, if any, matched Camille’s model more perfectly. And if beauty brought her fame, it also brought her fortune, thanks to the money she earned as a testimonial for the tailors of the time and her marriages to the rich and wealthy. If this article has inspired you to dream, I can help you make it come true. I create tailor-made trips for people who want to experience history, not just see it. My name is Valeria Pietrantonio, and I create dream experiences for people who, like me, dream before traveling. I design themed trips and create tailor-made itineraries, enriched with invaluable tips on hotels and historic houses, evocative places, and exclusive experiences not to be missed. Write to me at info@quellochepiaceavaleria.com and I will help you travel with your heart before your head, turning your dream into an unforgettable reality.
