=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[National Institute of Technology, Srinagar - Wikipedia]
National Institute of Technology Srinagar (NIT Srinagar or NITSRI) is a public technical university located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is one of the 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and, as such, is directly under the control of the Ministry of Education (MoE).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Institute_of_Technology,_Srinagar

[National Institute of Technology, Srinagar - Bharatpedia]
In the same year, the institution was granted Deemed University status with the approval of the University Grants Commission, All India Council of Technical Education and the Government of India. On 15 August 2007 it became an Institute of National Importance [4] under the NIT Bill passed by the parliament of India. [5] [6]
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/National_Institute_of_Technology,_Srinagar

[D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum]
D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/d-day-allies-invade-europe

[IST-2024 - About NIT Srinagar - Google Sites]
National Institute of Technology Srinagar, J&K was established in 1960 as the Regional Engineering College, Srinagar. The Institute acquired the status of NIT in August 2003 and attained full autonomy in its Academics. In 2007, it became an Institute of National Importance. It is one of the 31 NITs and it is directly under the control of the MHRD.
URL: https://sites.google.com/nitsri.ac.in/nc-ist2024/about/about-nit-srinagar

[What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum]
They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/what-and-when-v-j-day


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [National Institute of Technology, Srinagar - Wikipedia] ---
National Institute of Technology Srinagar (NIT Srinagar or NITSRI) is a public technical university located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is one of the 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and, as such, is directly under the control of the Ministry of Education (MoE). It was established in 1960 as one of several Regional Engineering Colleges established as part of the Second Five-Year Plan (1956–61) by the Government of India. It is governed by the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007, which has declared it an Institute of National Importance.
NIT Srinagar admits its undergraduate students through the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains), previously AIEEE. It has 12 academic departments covering Engineering, Applied Sciences, Humanities, and Social Sciences programs. Also, the medium of instruction is English. Prof. Binod Kumar Kanuajia is an academic administrator currently serving as the director of the National Institute of Technology Srinagar. He is known for his contributions to the field of education, as well as his leadership in advancing the educational and research initiatives at NIT Srinagar.




--- [National Institute of Technology, Srinagar - Bharatpedia] ---
No content


--- [D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower was supreme commander of the operation that ultimately involved the coordinated efforts of 12 nations. After much deliberation, it was decided that the landings would take place on the long, sloping beaches of Normandy. There, the Allies would have the element of surprise. The German high command expected the attack to come in the Pas de Calais region, north of the river Seine where the English Channel is narrowest. It was here that Adolf Hitler had put the bulk of his panzer divisions after being tipped off by Allied undercover agents posing as German sympathizers that the invasion would take place in the Pas de Calais. Surprise was an essential element of the Allied invasion plan. If the Germans had known where and when the Allies were coming they would have hurled them back into the sea with the 55 divisions they had in France. The invaders would have been on the offensive with a 10-to-1 manpower ratio against them. The challenges of mounting a successful landing were daunting. The English Channel was notorious for its rough seas and unpredictable weather, and the enemy had spent months constructing the Atlantic Wall, a 2,400-mile line of obstacles. This defensive wall comprised 6.5 million mines, thousands of concrete bunkers and pillboxes containing heavy and fast-firing artillery, tens of thousands of tank ditches, and other formidable beach obstacles. And the German army would be dug in on the cliffs overlooking the American landing beaches. At the Tehran Conference in August 1943, Allied leaders scheduled Overlord to take no later than May 1, 1944. In the meantime, they prepared ceaselessly for the attack. Trucks, tanks, and tens of thousands of troops poured into England. “We were getting ready for one of the biggest adventures of our lives,” an American sergeant said. “We couldn’t wait.” Meanwhile, the American and British air forces in England conducted a tremendous bombing campaign that targeted railroad bridges and roadways in northern France to prevent the Germans from bringing in reserves to stop the invasion. After General Dwight D. Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Commander, he and General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery modified the plan, expanding the size of the beachhead and the number of divisions in the initial assault. This, led Allied leaders to set June 5, 1944, as the invasion’s D-Day. But on the morning of June 4, meteorologists predicted foul weather over the English Channel on the 5th, leading Eisenhower to postpone the attack for 24 hours. The delay was unnerving for soldiers, sailors, and airmen, but when meteorologists forecast a brief window of clearer weather over the channel on June 6, Eisenhower made the decision to go. It was one of the gutsiest decisions of the war. Just after midnight on June 6, Allied airborne troops began dropping behind enemy lines. Their job was to blow up bridges, sabotage railroad lines, and take other measures to prevent the enemy from rushing reinforcements to the invasion beaches. Hours later, the largest amphibious landing force ever assembled began moving through the storm-tossed waters toward the beaches. Most of the Americans were packed into flat-bottomed Higgins boats launched from troop transports 10 miles from the French coastline. Vomit filled the bottom of the boats, and as water kept rushing in over the gunwales, the green-faced men had to bail this vile stew with their helmets. Though it was cold, the men were sweating. Planners had divided the landing zone into five separate beaches. The Americans landed at Utah and Omaha beaches. The British and Canadians landed at Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches. The fiercest fighting was on Omaha Beach where the enemy was positioned on steep cliffs that commanded the long, flat shoreline. Troops leapt from their landing boats and were pinned down for hours by murderous machine-gun fire that turned the beach into a vast killing field. “If you (stayed) there you were going to die,” Lieutenant Colonel Bill Friedman said. “We just had to . . . try to get to the bottom of the cliffs on which the Germans had mounted their defenses.” By midday, the Americans had surmounted the cliffs and taken Omaha Beach at a heavy cost: over 2,400 killed, wounded, or missing out of the total of approximately 34,000 who came ashore that day, a loss rate of more than 7 percent. By nightfall, about 160,000 Allied troops were ashore with nearly a million more men on the way that summer. The Normandy invasion was one of great turning points of twentieth-century history. An immense army was placed in Nazi-occupied Europe, never to be dislodged. Germany was threatened that same month by a tremendous Soviet invasion from the east that would reach the gates of Berlin by the following April. The way to appreciate D-Day’s importance is to contemplate what would have happened if it had failed. Another landing would not have been possible for at least a year. This would have given Hitler time to strengthen the Atlantic Wall, harass England with the newly developed V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets, continue to develop jet aircraft and other so-called “miracle weapons,” and finish off his killing campaign against ethnic and sexual undesirables. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [IST-2024 - About NIT Srinagar - Google Sites] ---
NIT Srinagar NIT Srinagar National Institute of Technology Srinagar, J&K was established in 1960 as the Regional Engineering College, Srinagar. The Institute acquired the status of NIT in August 2003 and attained full autonomy in its Academics. In 2007, it became an Institute of National Importance. It is one of the 31 NITs and it is directly under the control of the MHRD. The Institute is situated on the banks of the world-famous Dal Lake. Besides running 10 Undergraduate, -- Postgraduate, and Doctoral programs in several areas, the Institute has established centers as Innovation Incubation & Entrepreneurship Development (IIED), Interdisciplinary Division for Renewable Energy & Advanced Materials (iDREAM), Centre for Technology Intervention for Elderly and Disabled (CTIED), and Centre for Energy & Environmental Research (CEER).


--- [What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum] ---
On September 1, 1945, President Harry S. Truman addressed the nation by radio. “The thoughts and hopes of all America—indeed of all the civilized world—are centered tonight on the battleship Missouri,” Truman said. “There on that small piece of American soil anchored in Tokyo Harbor, the Japanese have just officially laid down their arms. They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war. Yet by September 2, 1945, celebrations of Japan’s surrender had already been taking place around the United States for weeks. Some of the most iconic photographs of V-J Day celebrations, if not the war itself, were actually taken on August 14, 1945, not September 2. Why can the date of V-J Day vary so widely? The answer lies in the complicated events of August to September 1945 in the Pacific theater. From Hiroshima to Tokyo In July 1945, Allied leaders met in the German city of Potsdam to discuss the strategy for ending the war against Imperial Japan. Germany had already been defeated and had accepted the Allied terms of “unconditional surrender.” Among other critical decisions, the Allied leaders—Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, US President Harry S. Truman, and British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, who replaced Winston Churchill during the conference—agreed that the Soviet Union would join the war against Japan by invading the occupied region of Manchuria. The day before the conference began, however, the United States successfully detonated the world’s first atomic bomb in the Trinity test. While the results of the test were not made public, Truman knew of its success. With both the Soviet commitment to join the war and the existence of the atomic bomb, the Allies issued the Potsdam Declaration on July 26 calling on Japan to accept terms of unconditional surrender, or face “prompt and utter destruction.” Two days later, Japanese Prime Minister Kantarō Suzuki appeared to reject the terms of the Potsdam agreement during a press conference. On July 31, Truman authorized preparations for the use of atomic weapons against Imperial Japan.1 On August 6, 1945, three American B-29 bombers, including the Enola Gay, appeared over the skies of Hiroshima, Japan. At 8:15 a.m., the Enola Gay dropped a single atomic bomb over the city. Less than a minute later, it detonated, killing at least 80,000 people instantly. Despite the destruction, the Japanese government made no official response, and a militant faction in Emperor Hirohito’s cabinet argued that the war should continue. Three days later, on August 9, another B-29 named Bockscar dropped a second atomic bomb, this time on the southern Japanese city of Nagasaki. That same day, the Soviet Union invaded Manchuria. Hirohito now stepped into the decision-making process personally. In the early hours of August 10, Tokyo time, the emperor announced to his war cabinet that he supported accepting the terms of the Potsdam Agreement. The cabinet then assembled a statement in accordance with the emperor’s decision. The agreement was transmitted to the Allies by letter through Switzerland.2 In it, the Japanese government conveyed that it was prepared to accept the terms of the Potsdam proclamation, but with Hirohito retaining his prerogatives as a sovereign ruler. News of the decision reached Washington, D.C., on the morning of August 10 local time; discussions began within Truman’s cabinet and with Allied leaders later that day. The following day, a tentative statement of agreement with these terms was sent by Washington to Tokyo with the stipulation that the authority of the emperor and the Japanese government would be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers. However, no official response was immediately received and, in the meantime, B-29 raids using conventional bombs continued against Japanese cities.3 On the night of August 13–14, American B-29s dropped leaflets on Japanese cities announcing that the emperor had transmitted possible terms of surrender to the Allies. This shocking public revelation precipitated a new crisis in the Japanese war cabinet. Hirohito reiterated his intention to end the war and recorded a message announcing his decision to the Japanese people later that night. Hours later, a rejectionist faction within the government launched an attempted military coup to destroy the emperor’s recording and prevent surrender. By the morning of August 15, however, the plot had been defeated and the conspirators committed suicide. 4 At noon Tokyo time on August 15, the emperor’s recording was broadcast over Japanese national radio. Never using the term “surrender” itself, Hirohito stated that his government would accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration. This was the first time the emperor had ever spoken directly to the Japanese people. 5 Celebrations at Different Times News of Japan’s intention to surrender reached Washington, D.C., on the evening of August 14 due to the time zone difference with Tokyo. At 7 p.m., Truman addressed the press in the Oval Office and announced the news from Tokyo. Celebrations erupted across the country, most iconically in Times Square, New York. As a result, many of the images Americans associate with the end of the war were taken on August 14. In the United Kingdom, the following day—August 15—was formally declared as V-J Day and remains so to the present day. Japan commemorates August 15 as the end of the war as well. In his press conference, however, Truman stated explicitly that “proclamation of V-J Day must wait upon the formal signing of the surrender terms by Japan.” The formal surrender of Imperial Japan was scheduled for two weeks later, on August 31, but because of severe weather, it was delayed until September 2, 1945. The surrender took place on the deck of the USS Missouri as a Japanese delegation signed formal surrender documents with General Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander of Allied forces for the occupation of Japan. Due to the time difference with Washington, Truman announced the signing of the formal surrender documents on the evening of September 1, 1945. He then proclaimed the following day as the United States’ official V-J Day. Crowds again gathered around the country to celebrate Japan’s formal surrender. Commemoration Dates Vary Due to the complexities of the events surrounding the end of the Pacific war, V-J Day has been, and is, commemorated on a variety of dates: August 15, the anniversary of Hirohito’s announcement in local time; August 14, the date of Hirohito’s announcement in the United States; and September 2, the anniversary of Japan’s formal surrender The United Kingdom, for instance, officially commemorates V-J Day on August 15 of each year. Australia recognizes August 15 as Victory in the Pacific Day (V-P Day). V-J Day is typically seen as the final end of World War II. Adding complexity, however, is another date that receives little recognition today: December 31, 1946, more than a year after Japan’s surrender. This was the date of Truman’s announcement of “a proclamation terminating the period of hostilities of World War II.” By doing so, Truman formally ended 53 “war and emergency statutes” that had been enacted to assist the war effort and, later, facilitate demobilization. With Truman’s announcement, the United States formally ended its involvement in the largest conflict in human history. Bradley W. Hart, PhD Bradley W. Hart is a World War II Military Historian at the Jenny Craig Institute for the Study of War and Democracy. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:
