=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ida Pulis Lathrop - Wikipedia]
She was born on October 27, 1859, as Ida F. Pulis in Troy, New York to Catherine (née Sheffér) and Abraham William Pulis. [3][4] She married Cyprus Clark Lathrop in 1885. [2][5] Together they had two daughters that became artists, Gertrude K. Lathrop, and Dorothy P. Lathrop. [3] Ida Pullis Lathrop was a self-taught artist. [3] She died on September 7, 1937, in her home in Albany, she is ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ida_Pulis_Lathrop

[Lathrop Family Plot [ Section 27 Lot 46] - University at Albany]
Lathrop Family Plot [ Section 27 Lot 46] A family of successful female artists Ida Pulis Lathrop (1859 - 1937) Ida Pulis was one of seven children born on October 27, 1859, in Troy, N.Y. to Abraham William Pulis, a merchant and carpenter, and Catherine Sheffer. Growing up, the family often took in boarders to help with their finances. She is a self-taught painter and became known for her still ...
URL: https://www.albany.edu/arce/LathropXX.html

[Ida Pulis Lathrop - Wikiwand]
She was born on October 27, 1859, as Ida F. Pulis in Troy, New York to Catherine (née Sheffér) and Abraham William Pulis. [3][4] She married Cyprus Clark Lathrop in 1885. [2][5] Together they had two daughters that became artists, Gertrude K. Lathrop, and Dorothy P. Lathrop. [3] Ida Pullis Lathrop was a self-taught artist. [3]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ida_Pulis_Lathrop

[Ida Pulis Lathrop (1859-1937) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Buried on September 10, 1937. (Cemetery Record) Famous Artist. She was known as a painter of portraits, landscapes, and still-life. Mother of the famous artists, Gertrude & Dorothy Lathrop. Neither ever married.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/97763033/ida-lathrop

[Cyrus Clark LATHROP/Ida PULIS - westfieldnjhistory.com]
Husband: Cyrus Clark LATHROP Born: at: Married: at: Died: at: Father: John W. LATHROP Mother: Margaret Osborn CLARK Other Spouses: Wife: Ida PULIS Born: at: Died: at ...
URL: https://www.westfieldnjhistory.com/greavesfiles/fam00427.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ida Pulis Lathrop - Wikipedia] ---
Ida F. Pulis Lathrop (1859–1937) was an American painter. She primarily worked on portraits, still life and landscapes as subjects. Lathrop was based in Albany, New York.


--- [Lathrop Family Plot [ Section 27 Lot 46] - University at Albany] ---
Lathrop Family Plot [ Section 27 Lot 46] A family of successful female artists Ida Pulis Lathrop (1859 - 1937) Ida Pulis was one of seven children born on October 27, 1859, in Troy, N.Y. to Abraham William Pulis, a merchant and carpenter, and Catherine Sheffer. Growing up, the family often took in boarders to help with their finances. She is a self-taught painter and became known for her still lifes and portraits. Her first exhibit was at the Academy of Design in New York City and garnered nationwide wide fame by the early 1900s. Ida was a member of the National Association of Women Artists, Painters, and Sculptors, and her style of painting was mainly in early 20th century Impressionism and Trompe I’oeil. In 1885 she married Cyrus Clark Lathrop. They lived briefly in Minnesota, but a majority of their life was in Albany. They initially lived at 230 Washington Avenue where he operated a restaurant laundry business. Cyrus had a deep interest in assisting those less fortunate, especially children. In 1892 he helped establish the Albany Boys Club, serving as president and executive director. His work at the Boys Club led him to several appointed jobs within state government, most notably Inspector for the Board of Charities which oversaw orphan asylums, institutions, and hospitals. They first lived at 321 Hamilton Street before building a home at 151 South Allen Street in 1904, Ida designed the home to include two rooms which served as her studio. Their backyard was filled with apple trees and “an assortment of cages that housed the family’s numerous pets.” Some of these pets include goats, squirrels, porcupines, sheep, turtles, and raccoons. Ida and Cyrus had three daughters; Dorothy, Gertrude, and Marguerite who died before she was two years old. Both Dorothy and Gertrude followed in her footsteps and became well-known artists, and the three worked out of the same studio. On occasion the Lathrops had group shows in Albany at Albany Institute, as well as New York City. On one occasion in 1930, Eleanor Roosevelt and her mother-in-law, Sarah Delano Roosevelt, hosted an opening night party for them inviting their close friends, which they referred to as “a great success.” Ida died on September 7, 1937, at the age of 77 following a brief illness. At the time of her death she was finishing up a group of paintings which were going to be exhibited at Albany Institute of History and Art later that year. A bust of Ida, done by her daughter Gertrude, is on permeant collection at Albany Institute. Before her death, she was featured in a show at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C. where she contributed a still-life, “Content.” Today several galleries have her work in permanent collections, and the last time one of her pieces went up for auction it sold for $15,000 at Christie’s. Dorothy P. Lathrop (1891 - 1980) Known as America’s Beatrix Potter, Dorothy Pulis Lathrop was born on April 16, 1891, the eldest daughter of Cyrus Lathrop and Ida Pulis. She attended Albany City Schools and later Columbia University where she obtained a degree in Art. Back in Albany she taught art at Albany High School and did freelance work for several magazines. She was determined to become an illustrator and went back to school to the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, moving to New York City afterward. While in New York City she was introduced to Alfred A. Knopf, who recently established publishing firm highlighting European authors to feature in the United States. He paired her work up with the English poet and writer, Walter de la Mare and in 1919, her illustrations appeared in the children’s book The Three Mulla-Mulgars also known as “The Three Royal Monkeys.” The partnership between the two became close and worked with him on five other books. Dorothy made a successful career illustrating almost 50 children’s books and wrote a number of them herself. Her grandfather owned a bookstore Dorothy is quoted saying that “during the early years, I wrote more than I drew.” In 1929 she was co-winner of the Newbury Medal, awarded by the American Library Association on the book Hitty, Her First Hundred Years. which was authored by Berkshire Count native, Rachel Field. In 1931 Dorothy was a runner up for the award for The Fairy Circus which she wrote and illustrated. She received another award in 1938 for her illustrations in Animals of the Bible by Helen Dean Fish, which received the firth Randolph Caldecott Medal by the Association for Library Services to Children. Some of her other well-known children’s books include A Little Boy Lost(1920), Down-Adown-Derry: A Book of Fairy Poems(1922), The Treasure of Carcassonne(1926), Mopsa the Fairy (1927), Bouncing Betsy(1936), Han Christian Anderson’s The Little Mermaid(1939), Mr. Bumps and His Monkey(1942), and The Dog in the Tapestry Garden(1962). In addition to animals, she did portraits and printmaking, specifically woodblock prints; she served as a founding member of the Albany Print Club. In 1949 she became an Associate Academician at the National Academy of Design and was a member of the Society of Independent Artist, and the National Association for Women Artists. In 1954 she and her sister moved to Falls River, Connecticut where she lived the remainder of her life, but visited Albany frequently. Dorothy Lathrop died on December 30, 1980, at the age of 89. Her works can be found in at the Albany Institute of History and Art, Mobile Museum of Art, New Mexico Museum of Art, University of Saint Joseph Art Gallery, and Print Club of Albany. Gertrude K. Lathrop (1896 - 1986) Gertrude Katherine Lathrop was born on December 24, 1896, in Albany to Cyrus Clark Lathrop and Ida Pulis. Like her mother and sister, she exhibited a strong passion for art and a love of animals, specifically Pekinese dogs. Her preferred medium was medal, specifically bronze. In 1918 she attended the Art Student League in New York City, studying under Gutzon Borglum, later known for the creation of Mount Rushmore. Gertrude also attended the School of American Sculpture in 1920 and 1921. Her first exhibition was in 1921 at the National Academy of Design, and over the next 50 years, her was included at the National Sculpture Society. During the summer of 1924, Gertrude lived in Gloucester, Massachusetts where she studied with Charles Grafy, the noted bronze sculptor who created many sculptures for several international Exhibitions, world’s fairs, and war memorials. Her work with Grafy came in handy in 1933 when she won a competition sponsored by the City of Albany looking for an additional memorial at Memorial Grove. Located on the corner of South Lake and New Scotland Avenue south of the Dudley Observatory, Memorial Grove was created to pay homage to the soldiers who served and those who died in World War I. As the original design of the was altered for reasons lost to history, the city officials felt more was needed to be done to honor the veterans at Memorial Grove. Her design was a large flagpole, inscribed with the names of the men from Albany who died and embellished with symbolic Albany beavers. Gertrude was also an early environmentalist where she became concerned about “preserving wilderness and wildlife” where she advocated for animal rights, specifically the use of fur within the fashion industry. In 1938 was commissioned to do a medal for the 18th issue of the Society of Medalists. Her medal included the wood duck, which at the time was an endangered species only found living on reservations due to the draining of wetlands throughout the United States. Like her mother, she was a member of the National Association of Women Artists, Painters, and Sculptors. Additionally, she was a member of the Society of Animal Painters and Sculptors; an elected member, National Academy of Design; National Institute of Arts and Letters; Society of Medalists; American Numismatic Society; and National Sculpture Society Association. Throughout her career she received a number of awards: Honorable Mention at the Art Institute of Chicago (1924); National Academy of Design (1928); Saltus Gold Medal for merit (1970); Medal of Honor, Allied Artists of America (1964); and Silver Medal, Pen and Brush Club (1967). In 1954 she moved to Falls River, Connecticut with her sister and lived there for the rest of her life. Gertrude passed away on March 16, 1986, of pneumonia at Sharon Hospital in Sharon, C.T. She was 89 years old. Her work can be found in many collections which include Albany Public Library; Brookgreen Gardens; Houston Public Library; National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington D.C.; and the Smithsonian Institute.


--- [Ida Pulis Lathrop - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Ida Pulis Lathrop (1859-1937) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/97763033/ida-lathrop: accessed ), memorial page for Ida Pulis Lathrop (27 Oct 1859–7 Sep 1937), Find a Grave Memorial ID 97763033, citing Albany Rural Cemetery, Albany, Albany County, New York, USA; Maintained by NWO (contributor 46583762). Add Photos for Ida Pulis Lathrop Fulfill Photo Request for Ida Pulis Lathrop Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Cyrus Clark LATHROP/Ida PULIS - westfieldnjhistory.com] ---
Sponsored by American History Press. Americanhistorypress.com "Keeping American history alive, one good book at a time!" Husband: Cyrus Clark LATHROP Born: at: Married: at: Died: at: Father:John W. LATHROP Mother:Margaret Osborn CLARK Other Spouses: Wife: Ida PULIS Born: at: Died: at: Father: Mother: Other Spouses: NOTES Sponsored by American History Press. Americanhistorypress.com "Keeping American history alive, one good book at a time!"
