=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Raspberry Pi OS - Wikipedia]
Raspberry Pi OS is a Unix-like operating system developed for the Raspberry Pi line of single-board computers. Based on Debian, a Linux distribution, it is maintained by Raspberry Pi Holdings and optimized for the Pi's hardware, with low memory requirements and support for both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi_OS

[Raspberry Pi OS Goes 64-Bit | Stephen Smith's Blog]
Feb 4, 2022 · The Raspberry Pi Zero 2, Raspberry Pi 3 and Raspberry Pi 4 all sport a 64-bit ARM CPU; however, the Raspberry Pi OS has remained at 32-bits until now. This new 64-bit version of the Raspberry Pi OS has been in beta for over a year and was finally officially released on February 2, 2022.
URL: https://smist08.wordpress.com/2022/02/04/raspberry-pi-os-goes-64-bit/

[64-bit Raspberry Pi OS released • The Register]
Feb 3, 2022 · The Raspberry Pi Foundation has officially released the 64-bit version of the Linux-based OS Formerly Known As Raspbian. A year and nine months after the beta was announced, the 64-bit version of the Raspberry Pi OS is ready for download. If you're still rocking an older Pi, be aware that the first few models had 32-bit-only CPUs.
URL: https://www.theregister.com/2022/02/03/64bit_raspberry_pi_os_released/

[Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit Exits Lengthy Beta - Tom's Hardware]
Feb 2, 2022 · Originally released as a beta back in May 2020, Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit looks and feels the same as the venerable 32-bit version but under the hood we get a little more horsepower for the newer ...
URL: https://www.tomshardware.com/news/raspberry-pi-64-bit-os-released

[Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit officially released - CNX Software]
Feb 3, 2022 · The Raspberry Pi Foundation has now officially released Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit about two years after the first beta version was released. Despite some potential performance benefits from using 64-bit code instead of 32-bit, the Raspberry Pi Foundation has resisted moving too quickly to a 64-bit OS ...
URL: https://www.cnx-software.com/2022/02/03/raspberry-pi-os-64-bit-officially-released/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Raspberry Pi OS - Wikipedia] ---
Raspberry Pi OS is a Unix-like operating system developed for the Raspberry Pi line of single-board computers. Based on Debian, a Linux distribution, it is maintained by Raspberry Pi Holdings and optimized for the Pi's hardware, with low memory requirements and support for both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. Originally released in July 2012 under the name Raspbian, it was introduced shortly after the launch of the first Raspberry Pi model.
The operating system is compatible with all Raspberry Pi models except the Raspberry Pi Pico microcontroller. It is available in several configurations: a standard edition, a "Lite" version without a desktop environment, and a "Full" version that includes additional software such as LibreOffice and Wolfram Mathematica. The operating system is available as a free download and can be installed using the official Raspberry Pi Imager utility. It is also sold preloaded on official microSD cards.


--- [Raspberry Pi OS Goes 64-Bit | Stephen Smith's Blog] ---
Raspberry Pi OS Goes 64-Bit Introduction The Raspberry Pi Zero 2, Raspberry Pi 3 and Raspberry Pi 4 all sport a 64-bit ARM CPU; however, the Raspberry Pi OS has remained at 32-bits until now. This new 64-bit version of the Raspberry Pi OS has been in beta for over a year and was finally officially released on February 2, 2022. Raspberry’s previous argument for staying at 32-bits was that they produced one operating system that worked on all Raspberry Pi’s no matter how old; however, there are quite a few compelling reasons to move to 64-bits so I’m glad they finally made the move. This isn’t the first 64-bit Linux for Raspberry Pis. Many of the standard distributions including Kali and Ubuntu Linux have been shipping 64-bit versions since shortly after the Raspberry Pi 3 came out. My book, “Programming with 64-Bit ARM Assembly Language”, was written using the 64-bit version of Kali Linux, except for the parts specifically for Android or iOS. Raspberry will still be releasing their OS in both 32-bit and 64-bit flavors for quite some time, so if you don’t want to move, you don’t have to. In this article we will have a quick look at some aspects of the new 64-bit version. How Does it Run? First off, even though it will run on a Raspberry Pi 3 or even a Raspberry Pi Zero 2, I wouldn’t recommend it. A 64-bit operating system uses more memory than the corresponding 32-bit version and 1 Gig of RAM isn’t enough. To use this, you really need a Raspberry Pi 4 with at least 4 Gig of RAM. On my Raspberry Pi 4 with 8 Gig of RAM, it is noticeably peppier than the 32-bit version, especially when browsing with Chromium. Installing the 64-bit operating system is nearly identical to installing the 32-bit version. It has been added to the list of operating systems in the Raspberry Pi Imager. By default the imager will install the 32-bit version, but you can choose the 64-bit from the “Raspberry Pi (other)” menu. From that point on it is hard to tell the difference. When you boot the new image it first resizes the filesystem for your SD card, then boots the Raspberry Pi OS as usual and puts you in the same setup wizard as you get in the 32-bit version, asking the same questions about timezone, wifi and whether the menu fits on your monitor. After installing any updates, it reboots and you are happily running the 64-bit version. The only caveat that Raspberry lists is that the Chromium library for running streaming services like Netflix is missing. This isn’t something I do and I’m sure it won’t be long. Otherwise all the usual Raspberry Pi programs are there and from my experience using Kali and Ubuntu, most things are available to install through the apt system. In fact one of the reasons Raspberry was finally forced to move to 64-bit is that several software packages have dropped 32-bit support. Why Move to 64-Bit? The Raspberry Pi OS has been around for a while in 32-bits, the advantage is that it runs on all Raspberry Pi’s no matter how old and it runs in compact memory footprints of 512 MB or 1 Gig. It runs a vast library of open source software and has provided a great platform for millions of students and DIY’ers. However, most of the rest of the world including mainstream Linux, Windows, MacOS, Android and iOS have all been 64-bit for some time. So let’s look at some reasons to move to 64-bits. - Memory addressing simplifies, making life simpler for Linux. - In 64-bit mode, each ARM CPU has twice as many general purpose registers (32 vs 16) allowing programs to keep more variables in registers, saving loading and storing things to and from memory. - All new compiler optimizations are targeting the ARM 64-bit instructions set, not much work is being done on the 32-bit code generators. - The CPU registers are now 64-bits, so if you are doing lots of long integer arithmetic, it will now be done in one clock cycle rather than taking several under 32-bits. All that being said, there are a couple of disadvantages, namely 64-bit tends to take more memory due to: - If integers are 64-bit, rather than 32-bit then it takes twice as much memory to hold each one. - Normal ARM instructions are 32-bits in size when running in either 32-bit or 64-bit mode. However in 32-bit mode there is a special “thumb” mode where each instruction is only 16-bits in size. Using these can greatly reduce memory footprint and the GCC compiler supports producing these as an option. Summary Raspberry has done a good job making their 64-bit operating system painless to use. It is a direct 64-bit compilation of the current 32-bit one, and most users wouldn’t know the difference, unless they know where to look. I find the 64-bit version noticeably peppier than the 32-bit version and so far everything works as expected. The future is 64-bit and better late than never. If you are interested in learning more about ARM’s 64-bit architecture, check out my book: “Programming with 64-Bit ARM Assembly Language”. 3 Responses - I just found your blog and am using a feed reader to receive posts. Every post arrives twice in my feed. Is there something you can do about that? - Sorry Tom, that is a feature of wordpress.com that I don’t have any control over. - - […] second article looks at writing Assembly Language for the 64-bit version of Raspberry Pi OS. This tutorial shows how to access memory, use 64-bit registers, use loops, […]


--- [64-bit Raspberry Pi OS released • The Register] ---
This article is more than 1 year old Out of beta and ready for data: 64-bit Raspberry Pi OS is here Now you just need a compatible device... The Raspberry Pi Foundation has officially released the 64-bit version of the Linux-based OS Formerly Known As Raspbian. A year and nine months after the beta was announced, the 64-bit version of the Raspberry Pi OS is ready for download. If you're still rocking an older Pi, be aware that the first few models had 32-bit-only CPUs. The new 64-bit OS won't run on a Pi 1, Pi 2, or Pi Zero. Nearly two years is long enough to iron out quite a few wrinkles, but not all. The release notes describe a gotcha: you'll need to install a 32-bit version of Chromium to watch Netflix or Disney+. Since a lot of Pis are attached to TV sets for use as media players and streamers, that will be important to quite a few owners. - Buy 'em by the punnet: Raspberry Pi offers RP2040 chips in bulk - Online retailers delaying sales of Raspberry Pi 4 model until 2023, thanks to a few good chips getting scarce - You've seen the Raspberry Pi CM4 in a mini-ITX case. Now here's four in a mini-ITX case - Seaberry carrier board turns a Raspberry Pi into a desktop PC with 11 PCIe slots Using a 64-bit OS has some benefits, we're told: you can run app executables built for 64-bit Arm targets; and you get some performance boost from Arm's A64 instruction set. User-mode software can also use wider pointers, and potentially access a greater virtual space than the 3GB available in a 32-bit environment (a max of 4GB minus 1GB for the kernel). That said, most models of Pi have well under 4GB of physical RAM available, so this memory space issue is not as acute as one might fear. As an aside, if you bought an 8GB Pi a while ago, 32-bit Linux can use Arm's LPAE function to access over 4GB of physical memory. If you use the camera module, you should stay with the legacy version anyway as the newer Debian Bullseye flavour of the OS doesn't support it. Other 64-bit OSes are available: for instance, a 64-bit version of Ubuntu for the Pi has been out for a while. ®


--- [Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit Exits Lengthy Beta - Tom's Hardware] ---
Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit Exits Lengthy Beta It's now an official, release OS. Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful February 2, 2022 marks the day that 64-bit flavor of Raspberry Pi OS moves from a rather lengthy beta, into the world at large. The news, announced via a blog post by Gordon Holingworth, Chief Product Officer at Raspberry Pi Ltd sees the 64-bit OS move to being released. But this new release isn't set to replace the 32-bit version just yet. Originally released as a beta back in May 2020, Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit looks and feels the same as the venerable 32-bit version but under the hood we get a little more horsepower for the newer models of Raspberry Pi. From the Raspberry Pi 3 onward (and a model of Raspberry Pi 2 based on an under-clocked Pi 3 SoC) the various models of Raspberry Pi have been 64-bit compatible. To retain compatibility across all models, Raspberry Pi stuck to a 32-bit OS, but as the balance of older versus newer Raspberry Pi shifts to favor the new models a new 64-bit OS is called for. | Model | Processor | Arm Core | Debian / Raspbian ARM Port (Maximum) | Architecture Width | |---|---|---|---|---| | Raspberry Pi 1 | BCM2835 | ARM1176 | arm6hf | 32 bit | | Raspberry Pi 2 | BCM2836 | Cortex-A7 | arm6hf | 32 bit | | Raspberry Pi Zero | BCM2835 | ARM1176 | arm6hf | 32 bit | | Raspberry Pi Zero 2 | BCM2710 | Cortex-A53 | arm64 | 64 bit | | Raspberry Pi 3 | BCM2710 | Cortex-A53 | arm64 | 64 bit | | Raspberry Pi 4 / 400 | BCM2711 | Cortex-A72 | arm64 | 64 bit | For now, the 32-bit image is still the default and recommended image promoted by the Raspberry Pi Imager tool. This move ensures that new users can get up and running no matter what model of Pi they may have. If you really want to take the 64-bit image for a test drive, it can be found under Raspberry Pi OS (other) via the Choose OS option. We asked Hollingworth to explain the current status of Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit and in his email Hollingworth explains that the 64-bit release has "had less test time than the 32-bit build and therefore might have issues we've not found yet. But otherwise it has equal functionality where it is under our control to provide it." This means that for the majority of users, the move will be friction-less. But of course there will be a few teething issues, most likely from specific edge cases. If you find an issue, report it! This is not an issue, per se, but there is one workaround that we need to employ. At this time, there is no 64-bit support for Widevine DRM. This means that we cannot play media from sites such as Disney+ and Netflix. The current workaround, detailed in the blog post, requires us to install the 32-bit Chromium browser. Hollingworth clarifies that that performance across the two architectures is not an issue, saying that "there's basically no disadvantage to doing that (people seem to think the 64-bit version is faster to load pages, but in my extensive testing it seems it's not as easy to prove this is the case, benchmarks run faster, but often that doesn't translate to actual page loading/interaction improvements)" Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. The Raspberry Pi 4, and the Compute Module 4 introduced a quandry that hadn't existed in the Pi ecosystem before. There are models which have more than 4GB of RAM and, typically, a 32-bit OS cannot access more than 4GB. However, for those boards, the 32-bit Raspberry Pi OS still does work around the limit to an extent. "On Raspberry Pi 4, we use the ARM Large Physical Address Extension (LPAE) to access up to 8GB of memory, subject to the constraint that any process is limited to accessing 3GB (we reserve the top 1GB of the virtual address space for the kernel)," Hollingworth explains. We asked Hollingworth if the 32-bit OS will be phased out as more 64-bit compatible models are released? "While we manufacture hardware with 32-bit processors then we will still continue with the 32-bit recommended image. (We still make original Pi model B's because we always said we would continue to do so while it was possible)," he said. For now, 32-bit and 64-bit will run in parallel, affording users of Pis both new and old the opportunity to squeeze the most from the popular single board computer. But how long until we see the 64-bit OS become the dominant choice? Les Pounder is an associate editor at Tom's Hardware. He is a creative technologist and for seven years has created projects to educate and inspire minds both young and old. He has worked with the Raspberry Pi Foundation to write and deliver their teacher training program "Picademy".


--- [Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit officially released - CNX Software] ---
The Raspberry Pi Foundation has now officially released Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit about two years after the first beta version was released. Despite some potential performance benefits from using 64-bit code instead of 32-bit, the Raspberry Pi Foundation has resisted moving too quickly to a 64-bit OS because if it would create two separate worlds for their earlier 32-bit boards like Raspberry Pi 2 or Raspberry Pi Zero, and the newer 64-bit boards starting with Raspberry Pi 3 onwards and may confuse users besides the extra workloads. Some of the main reasons to finally release a 64-bit version include improved software compatibility with many closed-source applications only available for arm64, and some open-source ones not fully optimized for the armhf port, some performance benefits, and the ability for a process to make use of the full 8GB RAM, removing the 3GB limit when using LPAE (Large Physical Address Extension) on 32-bit operating systems. When I tested Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit on Raspberry Pi 4 in June 2020 I actually noted some performance regressions against Raspberry Pi 32-bit OS, and at the time there were some known issues such as the lack of hardware video decoding in VLC and Chromium. But with the first stable release, video acceleration works through Chromium and VLC, GPU acceleration works through Mesa, and hopefully, some of the performance regressions are resolved, so it can perform more or less as well, or in some cases better, than the 32-bit version. There’s however one issue with using the 64-bit version of Chromium installed by default: the WidevineCDM library is not available making it impossible to play streaming video from premium services such as Netflix or Disney+. If that’s a must you can install the 32-bit version of Chromium instead:: | 1 | sudo apt install chromium-browser:armhf libwidevinecdm0 | Run the following command to reinstall the 64-bit version | 1 | sudo apt install chromium-browser:arm64 libwidevinecdm0 | While in theory, Raspberry Pi 64-bit OS can be installed on any 64-bit board, the desktop version may not work very well on Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W due to the low 512MB RAM capacity, so you may be better off with the 32-bit OS in that case. The Lite version of the 64-bit OS should work fine even with 512MB RAM. You may find more insights in the official announcement, and get the latest 64-bit OS from the Download page. Jean-Luc started CNX Software in 2010 as a part-time endeavor, before quitting his job as a software engineering manager, and starting to write daily news, and reviews full time later in 2011. Support CNX Software! Donate via cryptocurrencies, become a Patron on Patreon, or purchase goods on Amazon or Aliexpress. We also use affiliate links in articles to earn commissions if you make a purchase after clicking on those links.
