=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The history of the laugh track - Videomaker]
The first laugh track It all goes back to the early days of radio and a crucial piece of technology — the tape recorder. As the story goes, Bing Crosby wanted to pre-record his radio shows using new magnetic tape technology. His show “The Bing Crosby – Chesterfield Show,” which ran from 1949 to 1952, was one of the only radio shows at the time to be pre-recorded. This gave the show’s ...
URL: https://www.videomaker.com/how-to/directing/film-history/the-history-of-the-laugh-track/

[Laugh track]
Only a handful of programs, such as The Joey Bishop Show, The Dick Van Dyke Show and The Lucy Show used studio audiences but augmented the real laughter via " ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laugh_track

[Television is a laughing matter | Colorado Arts and Sciences ...]
Sep 15, 2025 · Like a number of early television shows, laugh tracks originated on radio before transitioning to television. Pioneering radio engineer Jack Mullin brought a tape recorder back from Germany after World World II, exhibiting the technology by recording musical performances and then playing back the music.
URL: https://www.colorado.edu/asmagazine/2025/09/15/television-laughing-matter

[Who Invented the Laugh Track? - letstakeacloserlook.com]
Mar 21, 2022 · First broadcast in 1931, the Bing Crosby radio show used the same laugh track for 30 years. Another creation story says studio engineers recorded Marcel Marceau’s live performances
URL: https://www.letstakeacloserlook.com/2022/03/21/who-invented-the-laugh-track/

[Laughter Is Contagious: the History & Psychology Behind the Laugh Track]
Nov 8, 2023 · The laugh track finds its origins in the Bing Crosby show, which ran from 1949 to 1952, and had distinguished itself from other radio shows at the time by being one of the only ones to be pre-recorded. This created a plethora of avenues for showrunners to explore. One instance of this is when comedian Bob Burns made a guest appearance on the show. The story goes that his contentious jokes were ...
URL: https://www.hercampus.com/school/krea/six-w/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The history of the laugh track - Videomaker] ---
In a nutshell - The first-ever laugh track was first used when Bing Crosby’s show’s producers used recorded laughter to enhance less-than-enthusiastic audience reactions. - Today, the inclusion of a laugh track is controversial, with some arguing that it’s a cheap trick to get people to laugh at a joke that isn’t worthy of laughter. - With the trend toward more cinematic television, the use of laugh tracks isn’t common. Have you ever watched a clip from a TV show with its laugh track removed? Awkward pauses alert you that something is missing, and the jokes suddenly become way less funny. But why is that? And why is the laugh track there in the first place? This article explores the history of the laugh track. We’ll look at its origins in radio, its effect on the audience and its evolution over time. We’ll also explore why some directors outright refuse to use a laugh track and why laugh tracks don’t show up in feature films. With that, let’s begin at the beginning and look at where the laugh track came from. The first laugh track It all goes back to the early days of radio and a crucial piece of technology — the tape recorder. As the story goes, Bing Crosby wanted to pre-record his radio shows using new magnetic tape technology. His show “The Bing Crosby – Chesterfield Show,” which ran from 1949 to 1952, was one of the only radio shows at the time to be pre-recorded. This gave the show’s producers an opportunity. When comedian Bob Burns appeared as one of Crosby’s guests, his controversial jokes were cut from the show. However, the laughs they got from the show’s studio audience were saved for later. These canned laughs, according to legend, became the first-ever laugh track. It was used elsewhere in the show to enhance less-than-enthusiastic audience reactions to tamer jokes. From there, Charley Douglass brought the concept to television production. Dissatisfied with when and how much audiences laughed, Douglass developed a practice called “sweetening.” In this process, Douglass would add and subtract laughter from a show’s recording to better suit the story — and his own tastes. He even invented a device called a “laff box.” It consisted of a large wheel with taped snippets of laughter attached to it, ready to be added to a soundtrack at a moment’s notice. But why? So, the origins of the laugh track can be found in producers’ desire for control over the studio audience. But why was the studio audience there in the first place? We need to go back to before radio and television when performance-based entertainment was most often experienced collectively. Back then, audiences congregated in theaters and comedy clubs, laughing at jokes together in a communal space. Early broadcasts tried to replicate this experience. Studios would air recordings of live shows and record studio shows in front of a live audience. This way, they could include laughter and other reactions from the audience to benefit those tuning in at home. Eventually, even shows not filmed in front of a live audience started to simulate the group viewing experience. Studios soon realized the benefits of recording without an audience present. It became commonplace for TV shows to completely fabricate an audience with pre-recorded laughter. Does it make the show funnier? While a laugh track can’t change the content of a joke to make it funnier, it does change the context surrounding the joke. And that can greatly impact how we, as viewers, react to it. It has been shown that we are much more likely to laugh in a social setting. In fact, just hearing others laugh can prompt our own chuckles. Laughter, it turns out, really is contagious. Thus, when you watch a show with canned laughter, even if you are watching the show alone, the canned laughter makes you feel like part of a group. Subconsciously, the added laughter can make viewers more likely to laugh along. This doesn’t make a show objectively more comedic, but it can enhance our experience. If we watch comedy TV to get a break from the stressors of daily life, more laughter can only be a good thing. Laugh track backlash While science supports the effectiveness of laugh tracks, not everyone agrees with their use. Many directors see canned laughter as a cheap trick to make the audience think a bit is laugh-worthy when it isn’t. Even in its early days, the laugh track had its detractors. David Niven, co-producer of the 1950s anthology series “Four Star Playhouse,” was notably disdainful of the practice. He has been quoted as saying, “I shall blackball the notion if it ever comes up. Not that it will. We shall carry on without mechanical tricks.” And on a different occasion, he said, “The laugh track is the single greatest affront to public intelligence I know.” For viewers, the addition of these laughing cues can feel patronizing, as if the show doesn’t trust them to see the humor on their own. Both creators and audiences against canned laughter argue that the viewer should be allowed to absorb and enjoy the show in their own way and at their own pace. Then and now Despite mixed opinions, the inclusion of a laugh track became the default for TV comedy from its first appearance in the 1950s all the way through the 1980s. Today, however, it’s much less common. As tastes and humor have changed over time, the laugh track just doesn’t fit as well as it used to. Increased awareness is another factor pushing the canned laughter out of favor. While the laugh track may have once faded into the background, today’s viewers are much more aware of — and annoyed by — its presence. The more people draw attention to the practice, the more the laugh track has gained a reputation as both antiquated and manipulative. As proof, YouTube videos that remove the laugh track from shows like “Friends” and “The Big Bang Theory” reveal how different our experience of a show can be without this social cue. It works the other way, too, as this laughter-infused montage of clips from “The Office” demonstrates. When laugh tracks are used these days, it’s often with a wink and a nod to the audience, like we see in “Kevin Can F**k Himself.” Otherwise, laugh tracks usually show up in throw-back sitcoms and reboots, like “Fuller House.” No place in cinema So far, we’ve focused on the use of the laugh track in TV and radio, but what about film? How is the laugh track used in cinema? Here’s the answer: It isn’t. That’s because, while we experience radio and TV in isolation, we watch cinema collectively in a movie theater. That means there was never any need to simulate the collective viewing experience. It wasn’t until relatively recently that viewers started watching movies alone, but by that point, the conventions of cinema had already been established. No laugh track. This connection to the more prestigious format of the feature film could be another reason TV laugh tracks have fallen out of fashion. With a general trend toward more cinematic television, it makes sense that the very TV-feeling laugh track would be eschewed. What’s next for the laugh track? The laugh track emerged first as a subtle way to enhance the real reaction from a live audience. Over time, however, it took on a life of its own, adding a phantom audience to productions even when no real audience existed. Now, audiences are wary and often resentful of the laugh track’s tactics. Still, canned laughter lives on in throw-back sitcoms and self-referential comedy.


--- [Laugh track] ---
A laugh track (or laughter track) is an audio recording consisting of laughter (and other audience reactions) usually used as a separate soundtrack for comedy productions. The laugh track may contain live audience reactions or artificial laughter (canned laughter or fake laughter) made to be inserted into the show, or a combination of the two.  The use of canned laughter to "sweeten" the laugh track was pioneered by American sound engineer Charles Douglass.

The Douglass laugh track became a standard in mainstream television in the U.S., dominating most prime-time sitcoms and sketch comedies from the late 1950s to the late 1970s. Use of the Douglass laughter decreased by the 1980s upon the development of stereophonic laughter. In addition, single-camera sitcoms eliminated audiences altogether. Canned laughter is used to encourage the viewer to laugh.


--- [Television is a laughing matter | Colorado Arts and Sciences ...] ---
Television is a laughing matter Top image: iStock In the 75 years since it was introduced, the laugh track has conditioned viewers to know when and how much to laugh Some audiences love it, and some audiences hate it, but the laugh track—which celebrates its 75th anniversary this year—has a deeper, more psychological impact than many realize. For months after I completed my book on Hanna-Barbera, I purposely avoided shows with laugh tracks. After hundreds of hours of over-the-top laughter that followed every Fred Flintstone fall or Scooby Doo pun, I became hyperaware of the laughter that accompanied my favorite shows like “I Love Lucy" and “Seinfeld.” These shows returned to my TV rotation after this short detox, but similar to involuntary processes like breathing, once I begin noticing laugh tracks, I couldn’t stop, breaking the desensitization and conditioning that has occurred for many viewers after decades of watching sitcoms. Like a number of early television shows, laugh tracks originated on radio before transitioning to television. Pioneering radio engineer Jack Mullin brought a tape recorder back from Germany after World World II, exhibiting the technology by recording musical performances and then playing back the music. In June 1947, he met the producer for Bing Crosby’s radio show, and after he demonstrated the technology, Crosby decided to pre-record his show. At the time, the few shows that were prerecorded were done so on acetate disc, which was fine for scripted content, but the low quality of the recording prevented the discs from being used to broadcast music. Crosby preferred a pre-recording in a studio, but NBC denied his request. He left NBC in 1945, then joined ABC in 1946 after the young network allowed him to record his show, the first major radio show to be recorded. The first season was recorded on disc, but when Crosby heard the quality of magnetic tape, he switched to tape recording the show. The improved quality of the recording helped push the show to the top 20 during its second season. The technique allowed show producers to edit out less-entertaining segments or performances deemed inappropriate for radio. During the third and final season of the show, comedian Bob Burns performed a “blue” set, which led to raucous laughter but was too racy for broadcast. Producers kept the laughter, and when the studio audience was less than receptive to a comedy performance a few weeks later, Mullin added the laughter from Burns’ performance during post-production, and the laugh track was born. Sweetening live laughter In early television, shows that were not recorded live used a single camera, filming the same scene several times. CBS engineer Charles (Charley) Douglass noticed inconsistencies in the laughter, with some reactions shorter or longer than intended, especially after the third or fourth filming. Also, certain individual laughter could be distracting, overshadowing the performance when audience members laughed at the wrong time. Douglass began “sweetening” the live laughter by adding recorded laughs when the joke did not land, and even edited down laughter when it went on too long. The first time recorded laughter was used not merely as a sweetener but as the sole source of laughter for a sitcom was in 1950 during “The Hank McCune Show” produced for CBS by Bing Crosby Enterprises. Although the sitcom lasted only 13 episodes, other shows began to pick up the practice. The recorded laughter not only helped to signal jokes in the program but was also used to cover bumps in the original recording. Many early sitcoms and variety shows filmed in front of a studio audience, but the design of multiple-set studios blocked half the audience from seeing some scenes and performances, so the laugh track helped fill some of those gaps. “I Love Lucy" was a famous exception, using mostly audience laughter and reactions in the original broadcast; however, even some of "I Love Lucy’s” laugh audio was sweetened. Douglass went on to create what was known as the “laff box,” a large, organ-like box that contained different laughs, many of which were originally recorded from segments of “The Red Skelton Show.” Douglass, who founded Northridge Electronics, was so secretive about his device that his family were the only ones to see inside it and just a few select technicians trained to use it. Douglass would often receive directions and edit in the laughter isolated from other producers and editors. Psychology and social conditioning The laugh track has survived 75 years on television, but not without challenges or controversy. The television comedy community has at best been ambivalent toward canned laughter, with some early television performers like Crosby, Milton Bearle and Bob Hope understanding how a laugh track could be used to project their desired reaction to a joke or routine. Many producers hated the artificial laughter, but because all the most popular comedies had laughter and most used a laugh track, they submitted to the trend at the time. By the 1960s, most comedies had stopped filming in front of a studio audience, knowing the broadcast audience did not care whether the laughter was canned or real. They also knew the audience needed to hear the laughter to know a show is a comedy, so a laugh track was a requisite to any show categorized as a comedy. One of the most famous tests of this idea involved “Hogan’s Heroes”: Audiences were shown early episodes with and without the laugh track, and the response was much better for the episodes with a laugh track. Shows like “Hogan’s Heroes” and “M*A*S*H” have had laugh tracks removed in rebroadcasts, leading to much darker shows around war themes. The goal is for the canned reactions to match the assumed reactions of the audience, conditioning the audience to react or engage in the way intended. Media theorist Stuart Hall famously discussed encoding and decoding in his reception theory, although the audience does have the agency to decode, or create their own meaning, even when producers encode the content with their intended messages. The laugh track is another form of encoding in which the message—in this case the joke—is encoded with humor, and the laugh track is used to reinforce the message so the receiver, or audience, decodes the dialogue or action and finds it humorous. Some creators pushed back against this, including Mel Brooks when creating “Get Smart,” Jackie Cooper in his show “Hennessy” and The Monkees, who thought the band’s comedy was intelligent enough to not require the track in their self-titled show. Brooks eventually relented, whereas Cooper and The Monkees finally were able to eliminate the laugh track in the third and second seasons, respectively. Both “Hennessy” and “The Monkees” were cancelled the season after they eliminated the laugh track, whereas “Get Smart” lasted six seasons. Laugh tracks were also widespread in children’s television. When Hanna-Barbera created several shows, including “The Flintstones" and “The Jetsons” for primetime, they included a laugh track similar to that in sitcoms, which they brought with them when they transitioned to Saturday morning. Hanna-Barbera’s Saturday morning cartoon budget was more limited than their primetime budget, so they and other animation studios created their own, more limited laugh track to circumvent Douglass’ monopoly, but would occasionally still employ Douglass laugh tracks for more high-profile productions. Other producers such as Rankin/Bass and Jim Henson also developed their own laugh tracks. The canned laughter not only showed animated viewers when to laugh, but it also extended scenes to reduce the amount of animation and, in turn, cost. However, some children’s television producers, like their live-action counterparts, hated laugh tracks and tried to broadcast without them. Ross Bagdasarian pushed back against a laugh track for “The Alvin Show.” Despite the popularity of The Chipmunks’ novelty music, the show was cancelled after one season, which was blamed partially on its lack of a laugh track. Creators who won their battle against canned laughter were Charles Schultz, Jay Ward and Bill Scott. NBC assumed “A Charlie Brown Christmas” would fail without a laugh track, but 60 years later, the holiday favorite and Schultz’s other specials remain classics—without the laugh track. Ward and Scott were supported by the show’s sponsor General Mills when negotiating with ABC regarding the laugh track in "Rocky and His Friends/The Bullwinkle Show,” and it was ultimately eliminated after the fourth episode. Canned laughter’s introduction to children’s television contributed to the continued social conditioning of television audiences; laugh tracks both signal that the program is a comedy while helping audiences recognize jokes and know when they should laugh. The laugh track also creates a feeling of connection or community rooted in visual media transitioning from theaters, where audiences watched the show together, into homes where an individual or small group is watching alone. Return of live audiences A mix of old-school sensibilities, a crop of new producers and a shift in settings for sitcoms led to the return of live audiences in the late 1960s. When “Here’s Lucy” debuted in 1968, Lucille Ball insisted on a live audience for her third network sitcom. That era also saw a shift back to shows set in urban environments after networks earlier moved toward rural settings like those in “The Beverly Hillbillies” and “Green Acres,” attempting to appeal to middle America. This not only led to the rural purge in the early 1970s, as series returned to cities, but these urban sitcoms, created in larger, more accommodating studios, were more conducive to live audiences. Writer and producer Norman Lear’s legendary career was built in front of a live studio audience, as his urban sitcoms like “All in the Family” and “Good Times” not only featured working-class Queens or the housing projects of Chicago but were also groundbreaking in bringing more diverse representation to television. Similar to theater, actors in these sitcoms allowed the audience reactions to simmer, ultimately pausing the scene until the laughter subsided. However, even as live studio audiences returned, showrunners continued to sweeten the laughs with laugh tracks. Comedy dramas (or dramedies) like “Eight is Enough” and “The Love Boat” even employed laugh tracks to help signal jokes, as they mixed comedy and more serious story lines and used the laugh track to help the audience distinguish between them. Some games shows, like Chuck Barris' “The Newlywed Game” and “The Gong Show,” were also sweetened with laugh tracks, especially since audiences were less excitable due to the lack of prizes given or won. Mark Goodson’s productions, like "The Price is Right” and “Family Feud,” were and continue to be famous for more raucous live audiences, but there still have been instances of occasional sweetening for broadcast. As time went on, laugh track options were expanded, with the type of laughter increasingly customizable depending on the show. Both Douglass and the companies creating their own tracks, like Hanna-Barbera, ensured the laugh track for each show matched the tone, mood and pace of the show in which they were used. More subtle comedies featured more subdued laugh tracks, while more slapstick or over-the-top comedies used more raucous laugh tracks to match the program and encourage similar viewer reactions. The laugh track continued to be nearly ubiquitous in sitcoms through the 1980s. However, as more satirical and animated sitcoms made it to broadcast, producers of this new crop of series began to move away from the laugh track to maintain flow and introduce more subtle humor. When “The Simpsons” debuted in 1989—the first primetime animated sitcom on a broadcast network since “The Flintstones” in 1966—the series departed from its prehistoric counterpart and trusted the audience to recognize the humor in the show. The shift also allowed for more visual humor and for producers to stack more jokes and allow dialogue to flow without waiting for the canned laughter to subside. Yet, even through the 1990s, the most popular sitcoms, including “Friends” and “Seinfeld,” maintained the classic sitcom approach and both invited live audiences to tapings and sweetened laughter with more advanced laugh tracks that were increasingly digital and customizable. As television entered a new millennium, more single-camera comedy series, including mockumentary series like “The Office” and cult favorites like “Arrested Development,” ditched the laugh track. Also, cable dramedies like “Shameless” and “Atlanta” emerged, particularly on cable, balancing serious storylines with subtle comedy where laugh tracks just did not fit with the overall audience experience. New generations of television (and streaming) viewers are now conditioned to watch comedies without laugh tracks, but there still is a place for traditional multicamera comedies that are either filmed in front of an audience whose laughter is sweetened or whose editors just insert laugh tracks. Audiences may be familiar with formulas or tropes in sitcoms, but laugh tracks still provide a feeling of communal watching even as appointment viewing and broadcast television slowly fades. Jared Bahir Browsh is an assistant teaching professor of critical sports studies in the CU Boulder Department of Ethnic Studies. Did you enjoy this article? Subscribe to our newsletter. Passionate about critical sports studies? Show your support.


--- [Who Invented the Laugh Track? - letstakeacloserlook.com] ---
In ancient Greece professionals were paid to manipulate audiences’ emotions by earnestly applauding performers and performances. In French theaters and opera houses, the pros were called claquers. By the 1830s, theater impresarios would order groups of claques led by chefs de claque who decided and coordinated when and how the applause would occur. Monkey see, monkey do theatergoers would follow the claquers’ lead and take up the applause. Even today, some people wait until they see others go first. The idea of hiring paid professional audience members to lead audiences to desired reactions was a good one and there was money to be made. New pay-to-emote groups include pleureurs (women who would pretend to cry at the sad parts), rieurs (those who laughed loudly at jokes), and bisseurs (those who called for encores by crying Bis! Bis!). Radio days Back in the days before television, radio was how more than 50 million Americans got their live news and entertainment. Without pictures to watch, listeners used their own imaginations to visualize the actors, singers and musicians. Being hidden from listeners’ sight allowed such roles as Gunsmoke’s Matt Dillon to be played by a short, fat, bald man.* In its early years, broadcast radio was live, not pre-recorded Orchestras made music live in studios and actors played comedies and dramas live on stages. All the words and sounds were broadcast exactly as they happened. Live audiences in the studios watched and listened to the announcers, actors, and musicians and reacted to the things they heard and saw with laughs, gasps, moans, groans, and guffaws. Soap operas drew huge audiences of housewives in the 1930s Companies with things to sell to at-home housewives ran ads for household cleaning products, particularly soaps. The first sponsors included Procter & Gamble, Lever Brothers, and Colgate-Palmolive. Some say the first soap opera was Painted Dreams, broadcast on WGN in Chicago. Others say the first was Clara, Lu, and Em, a Northwestern University sorority sketch. Franklin Roosevelt’s fireside chats were delivered in a relaxed and informal style Radio listeners felt that their president was sharing his thoughts with them. Families would gather around the radio to listen. Look how attentive they are, hanging on his every word. The first radio comedies appeared in the USA in 1928 Stars of the time included Jack Benny, Bob Hope and Red Skelton. The most popular was Amos and Andy, a radio show where white actors played characters most people thought were Negroes. Rain delay When Red Sox baseball games were rained out, one radio station filled the time with announcers Bob Elliott and Ray Goulding. Bob and Ray were quick-witted, irreverent, and able to make audiences laugh with a steady stream of improvised comedy skits. Click here to listen to a 3-minute clip of their classic “Slow Talker,” performed before a live studio audience. You can also go here to find 434 of their radio shows. Canned laughter For centuries before radio was invented, all performances were live and in person. The audience’s reaction in a theater was an audible part of the performance. As the oft-told story goes, the laugh track first appeared on Bing Crosby’s radio show. A comedian named Bob Burns was warming up the studio audience before Bing went on the air. His off-color jokes were not fit to be broadcast, but the laughs they got were so riotous that the scriptwriter asked the sound engineers to save them. A few weeks later, another comedian’s performance wasn’t getting many laughs from the studio audience Executives wanted more, so they instructed the engineers to add the tape-recorded laughs from Burns’ earlier appearance. First broadcast in 1931, the Bing Crosby radio show used the same laugh track for 30 years. Another creation story says studio engineers recorded Marcel Marceau’s live performances The only sounds were made by the audience, of course. Hogan’s Heroes This was the show that convinced television executives to use pre-recorded laugh tracks. Test audiences (who watched and heard the version with the laugh track) thought the show was funnier than those who saw the one without it. A Gestapo comedy seems a conflict of terms. The added benefit of using recorded laughter was there was no longer a need to have a studio audience Studio executives were used to controlling actors, crews, and technicians. They were unhappy that live audiences could not be depended upon to laugh at the right time, the right volume, and for the right length of time. Replacing live studio audiences with canned laughter was not only simpler, but cheaper, too – thus making more money for the executives. What’s your take? - Supporters say laugh tracks make television viewing more of a communal experience. The original idea was that adding a laugh track would give radio listeners the same feelings they’d have if they were watching a live production. - Critics say laugh tracks are coercive, deceptive, and treat the audiences as if they were too dumb to know humor when they hear it. In 1955, actor David Niven said laugh tracks were “the single greatest affront to public intelligence I know.” Early on, all canned laughter came from a single source The dialog and story lines of network hits like Gilligan’s Island, I Dream of Jeannie, The Dick Van Dyke Show, The Beverly Hillbillies, Green Acres, Mr Ed, My Favorite Martian, F Troop, McHale’s Navy, The Munsters, and The Flintstones may have been different, but the laugh tracks were all exactly the same. A man named Charley Douglass invented what he called the laff box. Inside his machine were dozens of different audience sounds. The operator would “play” the laff box like an organ, with keys that activated different laughs and foot pedals that were used to control the length and volume of the laughter. Douglass kept the inner workings a secret for a long time, and so made lots of money adding laugh tracks to every television program in town. Storytellers say he recorded his catalog of laughs with separate microphones in studio audiences for the Red Skelton and I Love Lucy shows The Verge says the laff box had 320 laughs inside, including male and female belly laughs, chuckles, snickers, giggles, and guffaws. The same laughs would play in the same order every time, so if you watched sitcoms of the Sixties, you grew up listening to the same laugh tracks hundreds of times. Over time, the laughs evolved as some old ones were taken out and some new ones added People who are interested in such things tell us laugh tracks can easily be dated by the laughter patterns. Time magazine called the laugh track one of the hundred worst ideas of the twentieth century Other ideas that made the list include leisure suits, t-shirts with messages, psychic hotlines, aerosol cheese, and Smell-o-Vision. Smell-o-Vision Theaters installed devices under the seats that released one or more of 30 different odors when triggered by the film’s soundtrack. One unintended consequence was that odors lingered after the scene was gone. Another was that the many odors released into the air would mix, creating odd and unpleasant combinations of scents. Next time you are watching a television show and hear a laugh track, you will either find it more funny or less funny to realize that those laughs were recorded in the 1950s and are coming from people long since dead. Want to read more articles like this? Click here for free, no-ad, no-tracking access to the hundreds of articles David has written since 2016. He covers lots of topics, always showing there is more to things than meet the eye. ___ *William Conrad was the radio Matt Dillon. You might remember Cannon, the TV series with the short, fat bald detective. ***


--- [Laughter Is Contagious: the History & Psychology Behind the Laugh Track] ---
In an age where sitcoms are widely celebrated, a sound that all of us have become familiar with is that of the laugh track. This familiarity is precisely the reason why we don’t feel the need to examine how it was brought about. So, before we get into the psychology that has sustained the laugh track through decades of television, it’s important to trace the phenomenon back to its origins in order to better understand how it came about and why it is still prevalent today. The laugh track finds its origins in the Bing Crosby show, which ran from 1949 to 1952, and had distinguished itself from other radio shows at the time by being one of the only ones to be pre-recorded. This created a plethora of avenues for showrunners to explore. One instance of this is when comedian Bob Burns made a guest appearance on the show. The story goes that his contentious jokes were cut from the show but the laughter they elicited from the show’s studio audience were preserved for future use. These “canned” laughs, according to legend, constituted the first-ever laugh track. It was then wielded elsewhere in the show to boost lukewarm audience responses to tamer jokes. We then see a new character introduce himself to the scene: Charley Douglass, an audio engineer who brought the concept to television production. As a solution to the dissatisfaction he felt when the reactions provided by audiences were underwhelming at times, Douglass developed a practice called “sweetening.” In this practice, Douglass would add and subtract laughter from a show’s recording. This gave him control over the audience’s responses: he could now regulate the ebb and flow of their reactions to complement the narrative of the show. He went on to invent a device called the “laff box” to more efficiently perpetuate this practice. The anatomy of the device was as follows: it comprised a large wheel with recorded snippets of laughter attached to it, ready to augment a soundtrack at a moment’s notice. Laugh tracks serve a dual purpose: while they might have originated as a band-aid to a disengaged audience, they were also meant to recreate a traditional theatre-like experience for at-home audiences. Now that we’ve built a rudimentary understanding of its history, we can now move on to exploring the psychology that has kept the anachronistic laugh track alive through the years. Although reactions to them have been ambivalent at best in recent years, in part due to the overuse of it by certain producers, it is still backed by surprisingly solid science. Studies have demonstrated that human beings—the conformists that they are—feel more comfortable laughing in a public environment. Simply hearing other people laugh is enough to elicit our own laughter in response. Some sitcoms therefore still invoke the laugh track, which essentially functions as a cue for the audiences at home as to when exactly to laugh. Not all shows, however, follow the same blueprint when it comes to utilising this tool. Both “Whitney” and “2 Broke Girls” tape before a live studio audience and record the audience’s chuckles, affording these shows a degree of authenticity. On the opposite end of the spectrum, we have renowned shows such as “Modern Family” and “The Office” that have foregone the use of the laugh track entirely. By doing so, they grant their audiences more autonomy by allowing them to determine for themselves when the jokes are actually humorous. The idea at the heart of the psychology behind the laugh track is most effectively captured in the words of cognitive neuroscientist Sophie Scott: “The laughter is influencing how funny the jokes seem and I think that’s because laughter is a very important signal for humans. It always means something. You’re getting information not only that it’s funny but that it’s OK to laugh.” This green light has rendered many a terrible joke into something more tolerable. For all of the ambivalence it has evoked throughout its lifespan, the reality remains that the ratings of several shows have been bolstered by the laugh track. This, coupled with the fact that it has echoed across so many of our favourite sitcoms through the years, leads us to the conclusion that television is likely to remain freighted with the joyous yet grating sound of it in the years to come.
