=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Yasser Arafat - Wikipedia]
Yasser Arafat[a] (c. August 1929 - 11 November 2004), also popularly known by his kunya Abu Ammar, [b] was a Palestinian political leader. He was chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) from 1969 to 2004, President of Palestine from 1989 to 2004 and President of the Palestinian Authority (PNA) from 1994 to 2004. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yasser_Arafat

[Yasser Arafat - Palestinian Leader and Resonator with Nigerian ...]
May 12, 2025 · Early Life and Education Born to a Palestinian textile merchant father with Egyptian ancestry and a mother from a prominent Jerusalem family, Arafat lost his mother at five and lived with his uncle in Jerusalem before returning to Cairo. Witnessing British soldiers raid his uncle’s home shaped his anti-colonial stance. He studied civil engineering at the University of King Fuad I (now Cairo ...
URL: https://verilynews.com/yasser-arafat-palestinian-leader-and-resonator/

[General Union of Palestinian Students - jerusalemstory.com]
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who studied civil engineering in Cairo at what was then called the University of King Fuad I, served as chairman of the Palestinian Student Union from 1952 to 1956, when he graduated. This group eventually became GUPS.
URL: https://www.jerusalemstory.com/en/lexicon/general-union-palestinian-students

[Yasser Arafat - People in History - WorldAtlas]
Jul 15, 2019 · The two lived in Jerusalem for four years since their father was unable to raise all seven children alone. Arafat joined the University of King Fuad I before graduating in 1950. During the Arab-Israeli War of 1948, Arafat left the University for Palestine to join the Arab troops who were fighting against the Israeli forces.
URL: https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/yasser-arafat-people-in-history.html

[All 4 Palestine | Yasser Arafat]
In 1944, Arafat enrolled in the University of King Fuad I and graduated in 1950. He later claimed to have sought a better understanding of Judaism and Zionism ...
URL: https://www.all4palestine.org/ModelDetails.aspx?gid=13&mid=182


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Yasser Arafat - Wikipedia] ---
Yasser Arafat (c. August 1929 – 11 November 2004), also popularly known by his kunya Abu Ammar, was a Palestinian political leader. He was chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) from 1969 to 2004, President of Palestine from 1989 to 2004 and President of the Palestinian Authority (PNA) from 1994 to 2004. Ideologically an Arab nationalist and a socialist, Arafat was a founding member of the Fatah political party, which he led from 1959 until 2004.
Arafat was born to Palestinian parents in Cairo, Egypt, where he spent most of his youth. He studied at the University of King Fuad I. While a student, he embraced Arab nationalist and anti-Zionist ideas. Opposed to the 1948 creation of the State of Israel, he fought alongside the Muslim Brotherhood during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Following the defeat of Arab forces, Arafat returned to Cairo and served as president of the General Union of Palestinian Students from 1952 to 1956.
In the latter part of the 1950s, Arafat co-founded Fatah, a paramilitary organization which sought Israel's replacement with a Palestinian state. Fatah operated within several Arab countries, from where it launched attacks on Israeli targets. In the latter part of the 1960s Arafat's profile grew; in 1967 he joined the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) and in 1969 was elected chair of the Palestinian National Council (PNC). Fatah's growing presence in Jordan resulted in military clashes with King Hussein's Jordanian government and in the early 1970s it relocated to Lebanon. There, Fatah assisted the Lebanese National Movement during the Lebanese Civil War and continued its attacks on Israel, resulting in the organization becoming a major target of Israeli invasions during the 1978 South Lebanon conflict and 1982 Lebanon War.
From 1983 to 1993, Arafat based himself in Tunisia, and began to shift his approach from open conflict with the Israelis to negotiation. In 1988, he acknowledged Israel's right to exist and sought a two-state solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. In 1994, he returned to Palestine, settling in Gaza City and promoting self-governance for the Palestinian territories. He engaged in a series of negotiations with the Israeli government to end the conflict between it and the PLO. These included the Madrid Conference of 1991, the 1993 Oslo Accords and the 2000 Camp David Summit. The success of the negotiations in Oslo led to Arafat being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, alongside Israeli prime ministers Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres, in 1994. At the time, Fatah's support among the Palestinians declined with the growth of Hamas and other militant rivals. In late 2004, after effectively being confined within his Ramallah compound for over two years by the Israeli army, Arafat fell into a coma and died. The cause of Arafat's death remains the subject of speculation. Investigations by Russian and French teams determined no foul play was involved, while a Swiss team determined he was radiologically poisoned.
Arafat remains a controversial figure. Palestinians generally view him as a martyr who symbolized the national aspirations of his people, while many Israelis regarded him as a terrorist. Palestinian rivals, including Islamists and several PLO radicals, frequently denounced him as corrupt or too submissive in his concessions to the Israeli government.


--- [Yasser Arafat - Palestinian Leader and Resonator with Nigerian ...] ---
No content


--- [General Union of Palestinian Students - jerusalemstory.com] ---
The Palestine Liberation Organization’s (PLO) transnational student organization. Officially established in Cairo, Egypt, in 1959, the General Union of Palestinian Students (GUPS) aimed to preserve Palestinian identity and advocate for the liberation of Palestine by bringing together Palestinian young people. Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who studied civil engineering in Cairo at what was then called the University of King Fuad I, served as chairman of the Palestinian Student Union from 1952 to 1956, when he graduated. This group eventually became GUPS. To be a member, one had to be Palestinian, be enrolled as a student, and pay nominal dues to the organization. It had a complicated system of democratic governance where, every three years, chapters selected delegates to an Administrative Committee and Executive Council. Members of the Executive Council sat on the Palestinian National Council. In its heyday in the 1980s, GUPS had approximately 55,000 active members spread across 55 countries. After the signing of the Oslo Accords, however, the group suffered from lack of focus and factional infighting; today, GUPS has only a small number of chapters in the United States, Europe, and South America. In the US, it has been mostly replaced by Students for Justice in Palestine, which includes non-Palestinians, has more than 350 chapters, and is independent of Palestinian political factions. GUPS serves as a student-led advocacy organization, participating in international forums, conferences, and campaigns for Palestinian interests.


--- [Yasser Arafat - People in History - WorldAtlas] ---
Yasser Arafat - People in History Yasser Arafat was a Palestinian political leader and an Arab nationalist who was the chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) from 1969 until his demise in 2004. Arafat's leadership marked a riotous era in which conflicts with Israel were prevalent. Arafat was also the founding member of a political party Fatah, which he chaired from 1959 until his death. He was also the president of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA) from 1994 to 2004. 5. Early Life Mohammed Yasser Arafat was born on August 24th, 1929 in Cairo, Egypt to Abdel Raouf Al-Husseini, his father who was a Palestinian from Gaza city and Zahwa Abul Saud, his mother whose family hailed from Jerusalem. Yasser, who was the second youngest child, had six siblings. He and his younger brother Fathi were the only children born in Cairo. Following his mother's death, Arafat together with his younger brother was sent to live in the Moroccan Quarter, in Jerusalem with their mother's family. The two lived in Jerusalem for four years since their father was unable to raise all seven children alone. Arafat joined the University of King Fuad I before graduating in 1950. During the Arab-Israeli War of 1948, Arafat left the University for Palestine to join the Arab troops who were fighting against the Israeli forces. However, Arafat fought alongside the Muslim Brotherhood and even took part in combat around the Gaza area but did not join any ranks or the organization. In early 1949, Arafat returned to Cairo since the war was ending for the Israeli, once in Cairo Arafat returned to the University where he studied civil engineering and later graduated with a bachelor's degree. 4. Rise to Power Arafat, together with some of his associates, established the Fatah, an underground organization in 1958. The primary objective of the organization was to champion for armed resistance against the nation of Israel. The organization was strong enough by the mid-1960s when Arafat exited Kuwait to become a full-time anarchists and stage assaults against Israel. In 1964, the PLO was founded bringing together several groups that were working towards establishing a free Palestinian state. Following the Six-Day War against Israel which saw the defeat of Palestine, Arafat and his Al-Fatah network took control over the PLO becoming its chairman in 1969. The PLO moved its operations to Jordan but was eventually evacuated by King Hussein prompting Arafat to move its operations to Lebanon. The PLO carried out assassinations, bombings, and shootings against Israel, with the famous 1972 killings at the Munich Olympic Games of 11 Israeli athletes. The PLO was once again expelled this time out of Lebanon during the early 1980s. Soon after, Arafat established the Intifada protest movement against the occupation of Israel in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The movement's era was marked by constant conflicts, violence, and Israeli retaliation. 3. Contributions During the UN General Assembly of 1988, Arafat delivered a speech declaring that all the parties involved in the war could live together in peace. As a result of the peace process, the 1993 Oslo Accords approved for elections to take place in the territory, therefore, allowing self-governance in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Elections were done, and Arafat was elected as the Palestinian President. 2. Challenges One of the greatest challenges Arafat faced was the anger that had been building up among the Palestinians who were dissatisfied with the outcome of peace negotiations with Israel. The Palestinians attributed the peace negotiations to have further assisted and expanded Israeli settlements, led unemployment, land confiscation, and Israeli raids. During Arafat's involvement with PLO, Al-Fatah, and Intifada it marked an era of brutal attacks, terror, and killings which portrayed him as a bad leader. Following the September 11th, 2001 terror attacks, Sharon ordered Arafat to be confined to his headquarters in Ramallah by Israel until his death. The move was supported by Bush the American President terming Arafat as an obstacle to peace. 1. Death and Legacy In 1994, Arafat together with Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin from Israel received the Nobel Price for peace, and the three signed the Oslo II negotiations which was a new agreement that paved way for some peace treaties such as the Camp David Accords, the Wye River Memorandum, the road map for peace between Israeli and PLO, and the Hebron Protocol. On October 25th, 2004, Arafat developed flu-like symptoms but his situation only worsened, and he was taken to Paris, France for further treatment. However, on November 11th, 2004, Arafat was pronounced dead after suffering a hemorrhagic stroke.


--- [All 4 Palestine | Yasser Arafat] ---
Ask the publishers to restore access to 500,000+ books. Loading... https://all4palestine.org/ModelDetails.aspx?gid=13&mid=182 | 16:24:23 February 09, 2025 Got an HTTP 302 response at crawl time Redirecting to... /ModelDetails.aspx?gid=13&mid=182&lang=ru
