=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Russian annexation of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and ...]
On 21 February 2022, Russia officially recognized the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic and, three days later, started a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, during which they occupied territory in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia Oblasts, with formal military occupations beginning in the first week. [19]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_annexation_of_Donetsk,_Kherson,_Luhansk_and_Zaporizhzhia_oblasts

[In Ukraine's Donbas, ten years of war and Russification]
Apr 8, 2024 · On February 21, 2022, three days before the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Russia recognised the independence and sovereignty of the two self-proclaimed separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
URL: https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20240408-ukraine-donbas-ten-years-of-war-russification-russia-donetsk-luhansk

[The History of Donbas' Donetsk and Luhansk Regions Annexed by Russia]
Now home to a majority of Russian-speaking people, they moved there only in recent decades. Now, Russia has given more than 720,000 Russian passports to roughly one-fifth of the region’s population, according to The Associated Press. This effectively makes them Russian citizens and creates a pretext for war, as the country can state that its troops...
URL: https://greekreporter.com/2022/09/30/history-donbas-donetsk-luhansk/

[Russian annexation of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia oblasts]
On 30 September 2022, Russia unilaterally declared the annexation of the territories under ist control in four Ukrainian oblasts - Luhansk, Donetsk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson.
URL: https://content.phersu-atlas.com/chronology/event5345.html

[Conflict in Ukraine's Donbas: A Visual Explainer]
On 24 February 2022, Russia attacked Ukraine on several fronts beginning a major invasion. ... Three days later, Russia invaded Ukraine, heralding a new ...
URL: https://www.crisisgroup.org/visual-explainers/conflict-ukraines-donbas-visual-explainer


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Russian annexation of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and ...] ---
On 30 September 2022, Russia, amid an ongoing invasion of Ukraine, unilaterally declared its annexation of areas in and around four Ukrainian oblasts—Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia. Most of Luhansk Oblast and part of Donetsk Oblast had been controlled by pro-Russian separatists since 2014, while the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia Oblasts were invaded by Russia in 2022. The boundaries of the areas to be annexed and their borders were not defined; Russian officials stated that they would be defined later. None of the oblasts were fully under Russian control at the time of the declaration, nor since. If limited to the areas then under Russian control (about 90,000 km2 or 15% of Ukraine's territory, roughly the size of Portugal) the annexation would still be the largest in Europe since World War II.
The move occurred after internationally unrecognized referendums held days prior, which were organized by Russian occupation authorities in territories where hostilities were ongoing and much of the population had fled. It occurred seven months after the start of the invasion and less than a month after the start of the Ukrainian Kharkiv counteroffensive. The signing ceremony was held in the Grand Kremlin Palace in Moscow in the presence of occupation authority heads Leonid Pasechnik, Denis Pushilin, Yevgeny Balitsky and Vladimir Saldo, and Russian president Vladimir Putin.
The declared annexation is unrecognized by the international community, with the exception of North Korea and, formerly, also Ba'athist Syria. Ukraine, the European Union, the United States and the United Nations all said that the referendums and the annexation had no legal basis or effect. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in response that Ukraine would apply to join NATO on an expedited basis. On 19 October Russia introduced martial law within the annexed and controlled areas, with legislation allowing for bans on public gatherings and other widespread restrictions on personal liberty.
The Ukrainian Kherson and Kharkiv counteroffensives allowed Ukraine to recapture parts of its territory, including Kherson on 11 November 2022.


--- [In Ukraine's Donbas, ten years of war and Russification] ---
In Ukraine's Donbas, ten years of war and Russification On April 7, 2014, a coup by pro-Russian militants in the city of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine was the spark that ignited the Donbas war. In the heart of this industrial region, populated at the time by six million mostly Russian-speaking inhabitants, the armed confrontation began between an expansionist Russia and a Ukraine aspiring to consolidate its independence. The Donbas has become a desolate landscape after ten years of war, and Russification has been brutally imposed. Mentioned in international news bulletins during the past ten years of war in the Donbas, the names of dozens of towns like Bakhmut or Avdiivka became known far beyond Ukraine's borders. These places now lie in ruins, along with the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol and Donetsk International Airport With the benefit of historical perspective, the battlegrounds in Donbas appear to be the precursor of Russia' s large-scale military invasion of Ukraine. Donetsk and Luhansk, the two administrative regions, or oblasts, which make up Ukraine’s Donbas region, were officially annexed by Russia in September 2022. According to Moscow, they are now part of the Russian Federation. This annexation is deemed illegal by the Ukrainians, who still control part of the region, and by the vast majority of the international community. Ten years after the fighting began, the Donbas remains the scene of bloody trench warfare, resembling a modern-day version of the Battle of Verdun. According to military analysts, the Ukrainians fire up to 60,000 artillery shells a month across the 1,000-kilometre-long front line, while their Russian adversaries can fire between 300,000 and 600,000 shells. At the heart of Russian and Soviet mythologies The region, named after the Donets river and its mining basin (Donets basin), has been part of Ukraine since it became an independent state in 1991. Larger than the Netherlands, the Donbas was formerly part of the Russian Empire, and then the USSR. The region's largest city, Donetsk, entered the industrial age thanks to a Welshman, John Hughes, who in 1869 founded a huge metallurgical complex of coal mines and foundries that revolutionised the local economy. By 1900, 68% of the Russian empire's coal was extracted in the Donetsk basin. According to an imperial census carried out in 1897, a third of the Donbas population were Russians attracted to the region by the development of mining and heavy industry. In the same census the Tsarist administration recorded that Ukrainians made up half the population while minority communities included Jews, Tatars, Germans and Greeks. In the years 1924-1961, the town was named "Stalino". It was the scene of the exploits of the coal miner Alekseï Stakhanov, whose prodigious output made him a champion of Soviet productivity and a hero of Stalinist propaganda. During the Soviet era, from Moscow’s perspective, the Donbas and its workforce were an industrial bastion – and an integral part of Russia. "In the Soviet imagination, Donbas was the furnace of the entire Soviet Union," explains historian Galia Ackerman. "With the rise of industrialisation, many Russian skilled workers and engineers arrived in the region. The Donbas was very strongly Russified in the 1930s." In 1991, however, 83% of the population of the Donbas region voted in favour of Ukrainian independence. In the years that followed, the predominantly Russian-speaking population struggled with the transition to a post-communist system, a period marked by de-industrialisation and a severe economic crisis. In every Ukrainian presidential election over the following decades, voters in Donbas, like those in other regions of eastern Ukraine, cast their votes for political parties close to Russia. In the 2010 elections, Viktor Yanukovych 's Party of Regions won 80-90% of the vote against the pro-European party of former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Just prior to the outbreak of the conflict in 2014, the Donbas was "a blighted region where the population was impoverished and greatly missed the Soviet Union", says Ackerman. "There were local mafias and a number of oligarchs who had taken over most of the heavy industry. There were towns where all life depended on the boss – social services, medicine, everything." Many journalists have observed that these local bosses also controlled the media and tolerated no opposition. Secession, and self-proclaimed people's republics In the aftermath of the Maidan Revolution, parties favouring closer ties with the EU had prevailed. On February 22, 2014, the Ukrainian parliament voted to remove pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych, who fled to Donetsk and then to Russia. The parliamentary deputies in Kyiv then quickly repealed the law making Russian one of the country's official languages. The next day, anti-Maidan demonstrations broke out in Donbas and in Russian-speaking cities elsewhere in Ukraine, notably Odesa. Russian forces seized strategic sites in Crimea on February 27, then completed the annexation of the Crimean peninsula in just three weeks. Anti-Maidan protests in Ukraine continued throughout March. In Western countries, these demonstrators began to be referred to as "pro-Russian separatists". In Kyiv, they were described as terrorists. The Russian state media began referring to a "Russian Spring" in Ukraine, and labelled supporters of the new pro-European Ukrainian leadership as fascists. For Huseyn Aliyev, a specialist in the war in Ukraine at Glasgow University, "Donbas is certainly Russian-speaking, but there was no organised separatism in Donbas before 2014. It's not a region that had organised separatist aspirations before that." On April 7, 2014, a group of around 1,000 pro-Russian activists seized the buildings and weapons stores of the Ukrainian security service, the SBU, in Donetsk and Luhansk. On April 12, another armed group, led by a former colonel of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) occupied several police and SBU buildings in Sloviansk, and a similar scenario unfolded in Kramatorsk. "The whole of the Donbas seemed destined for the same fate as Crimea," write the military historians Michel Goya and Jean Lopez in their book "L'ours et le renard: Histoire immédiate de la guerre en Ukraine" (The Bear and the Fox: Immediate history of the war in Ukraine). According to Goya and Lopez, the Russian regime then decided on a strategy "aimed at the partition of Ukraine”, its efforts to subjugate the entire country having twice been thwarted, in 2005 during the Orange Revolution, then in 2013-2014 during the Maidan Uprising. The historians note that “the Kremlin has no shortage of ideologues to theorise about the creation of a buffer state and to revive the old Tsarist term ‘New Russia’ " – a term designating Ukrainian provinces “where Russian speakers are in a relative majority or significant minority,” including the provinces of Kharkiv, Luhansk, Donetsk, Dniepropetrovsk, Zaporijjia, Mikolayev, Kherson and Odesa. For the geographer and diplomat Michel Foucher, the methods Russia used to seize power and annex territory, applied so smoothly in Crimea, were once again put to use in April 2014. "The historical argument, the role of special forces, the use of violence, a false pretence of a referendum, all of this is replicated in the Donbas," he says. On May 11, 2014, two referendums – not recognised by Ukraine or Western countries – were held in Donetsk and Luhansk. The "yes" vote for independence from Ukraine won massively in both cases, and marked the creation of the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) and the Luhansk People's Republic (LPR). The first Donbas war: April 2014 – February 2015 The day after the pro-Russian separatists took power, Kyiv immediately launched an "anti-terrorist operation". Its army was still poorly organised, and relied on volunteer battalions often drawn from the nationalist and radical movements like the Azov Brigade or Pravy Sektor. Then came a sequence of troop movements and armed clashes. In July, pro-Ukrainian forces pushed back the separatists at Mariupol, Kramatorsk and Bakhmut. On July 17, a Malaysia Airlines airliner carrying 298 passengers and crew was shot down by surface-to-air missiles in eastern Ukraine over territory controlled by pro-Russian forces. In August, pro-Kyiv forces were on the verge of retaking the cities of Donetsk and Luhansk. Faced with the deteriorating military situation, Moscow sent reinforcements. "Russian armed forces entered the Donbas probably at the end of July and in August,” says Aliyev. “They were certainly already present in large numbers and several Russian brigades were deployed in Ukraine, although Russia obviously denied all this." "By the end of August, the number of Russian soldiers in Ukraine was between 3,500 and 6,500," write Goya and Lopez, enabling the pro-Russian forces to launch a lightning offensive that was only halted by the signing of the first in the series of Minsk agreements, which established a ceasefire on September 4, 2014. On January 14, 2015, a new Russian offensive was launched in support of the "separatist" forces. It resulted in the capture of Donetsk International Airport and the fall of the Debaltseve pocket after very intense fighting. On February 12, 2015, the so-called Minsk II agreements formalised the de facto partition of Ukrainian territory, marking a victory for Russia. In the years that followed, and until the full-scale Russian attack on February 24, 2022, "violations of the ceasefire and the multiple truces, small-scale attacks and artillery fire hardly ever ceased, without the line of contact between the forces really moving. The war in Donbas killed 10,000 to 12,000 soldiers and 3,000 to 5,000 civilians" on both sides, note Goya and Lopez. Separatism or proxy war? In Ukraine, many people blamed Europeans and Americans for their passivity in the face of the Russian aggression in 2014. From Kyiv's point of, the "pro-Russian separatists" were being guided by Moscow – the separatists would never have taken up arms to protect their identity and language without Moscow's endorsement and active support. For the analyst Aliyev, the outbreak of war in the Donbas was the first step towards Russia's large-scale military intervention in Ukraine. "Until 2022, Russia maintained a permanent military presence in the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics, which varied in size depending on the situation. During periods of intense confrontation with Ukraine, regular military personnel were deployed in greater numbers. At other times, the security services of the Russian military sent units to help the local separatists", he explains. As the conflict progressed, local players with regional ambitions – such as Alexander Zakharchenko, the first leader of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic – were eliminated. Considered insufficiently compliant by his Russian allies, Zakharchenko was assassinated in a 2018 car bomb attack. His counterpart in the Luhansk People's Republic was replaced on Moscow's orders. Since then, the two breakaway republics have been led by political figures who have pledged allegiance to the Kremlin. "Between 2016 and 2022, these two entities became almost entirely dependent on the Russian Federation in every way: financially, economically and militarily. Moscow paid salaries, pensions and so on. It is probably from this period onwards that we can speak of Russia's governance by proxy," says Aliyev. The second Donbas war and the nibbling away of Ukraine's territory On February 21, 2022, three days before the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Russia recognised the independence and sovereignty of the two self-proclaimed separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. On February 24, Russian troops launched an all-out assault on Ukrainian territory, notably from Belarus, Crimea and Donbas. In the first days of the war, Russian forces advanced across Ukraine, only to be halted by the Ukrainian army and territorial defence volunteers. After the failure of the Russian advance toward Kyiv, followed by its withdrawal from the northeast of Ukraine at the end of March, Russia officially declared that the real aim of the "special operation", as the Kremlin called it, was the "liberation of the Donbas". In a speech on February 24, Vladimir Putin claimed to want to disarm and "denazify" the whole of Ukraine. In May and June 2022, Ukrainian forces were forced to evacuate Lyman, Severodonetsk and Lyssychansk in the Luhansk region. Further south, Russian troops succeeded in taking Mariupol after a bloody siege. This industrial port of 400,000 inhabitants on the Sea of Azov was mercilessly bombed. Seventy percent of the city was destroyed, including the theatre that served as a refuge for civilians. According to the Ukrainian authorities, at least 20,000 inhabitants perished in the fighting. Azovstal, Europe's largest steelworks, had been built “in the 1950s with underground shelters to house 30,000 people in the event of a nuclear war” and was completely destroyed “after being shelled with 3-ton bombs", according to Goya and Lopez. After a successful counter-offensive in September 2022 that enabled Ukraine to retake a number of localities in the two Donbas oblasts, the main clash took place in Bakhmut, which the mercenaries of Russia’s Wagner Group finally captured on May 25, 2023. The long bloody battle, referred to by combatants as a "meat grinder", resulted in the total destruction of this town of 70,000 inhabitants. After a new Ukrainian counter-offensive in the summer of 2023 – this time without territorial gains – Russian forces resumed their strategy of nibbling away at the front line and seized the small town of Avdiivka in February 2024, at the cost of heavy casualties and the town's total destruction. On the defensive, Ukrainian forces have since begun to reinforce the fortifications of the Donbas front line in order to hold out against an enemy that is trying to crush them via a deluge of artillery shells. "The battle of Donbas: ‘destroying a lot and advancing a little’ ", note Goya and Lopez, describing Russian tactics. "The Russians are adapting objectives and goals according to the reality on the ground, they are literally trying to seize and occupy every piece of land in Ukraine. That seems to be their objective at the moment," says Aliyev. The 'New Russia'? In the part of the Donbas that has been outside Ukrainian sovereignty for ten years, a return to the pre-2014 situation now seems highly unlikely. The breakaway Ukrainian republics that seceded in 2014 have since 2022 become official Russian territories, where the ruble circulates and a large proportion of the inhabitants have acquired Russian citizenship. In March 2024, for the first time, the inhabitants of Donbas took part in a Russian presidential election, as did the inhabitants of other Ukrainian areas partially occupied by the Russian army such as Zaporizhzhia and Kherson, under strong pressure from the new authorities. "Russification began in 2014. They changed the textbooks. They simply killed or imprisoned or drove away all those who were pro-Ukrainian. We mustn't forget that there are nearly a million Donbas inhabitants who fled to Ukraine during the occupation of Donbas by pro-Russian and Russian forces," Ackerman says. Given the restricted access to this densely populated industrial region, it is difficult to accurately assess the destruction, reconstruction and degree of Russification in the territories conquered by Russia. In August 2022, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin presented Vladimir Putin with a plan to rebuild Mariupol within three years, including the redevelopment of the devastated Azovstal steelworks industrial zone, which was to be converted into a "technology hub". Since then, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu has made a series of visits to the seaside city – not to mention the Russian president's visit in March 2023 – with the aim of turning Mariupol into a showcase for the "New Russia" ("Novorossiya"). Russian television frequently reports from Mariupol on the construction of brand new apartment blocks, schools and medical centres. "There's a massive influx of Russians to Mariupol because it's a city by the sea, and the sales pitch to Russians is 'Come join us, real estate is cheap'. The town is being completely rebuilt, the incoming population replacing those that have left," explains historian Ackerman. Faced with Russian expansionism, European diplomacy seems to have no influence at all on the Russia-Ukraine war that has been raging for ten years on the fringes of Europe. The Minsk agreements of 2014 and 2015, sponsored by France and Germany, were a resounding failure. In February 2023, French geographer and diplomat Michel Foucher estimated that "the military situation on the ground could lead to a kind of freeze around stable, well-defended front lines on both sides, without any agreed settlement or even any ceasefire". After a decade of war in the Donbas, the question diplomats will have to consider in years to come is how to determine where the EU ends and where Russia begins. This article has been translated from the original in French.


--- [The History of Donbas' Donetsk and Luhansk Regions Annexed by Russia] ---
Russian President Vladimir Putin officially annexed the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, known together as the Donbas in eastern Ukraine, along with two other regions. In a ceremony at the Kremlin on Friday, September 30th, he pronounced that the regions of Luhansk and Donetsk in the east as well as in Zaporizhzhia and Kherson in the south are now part of the Russian Federation. It was yet another pivotal, wrenching moment in the long and turbulent history of the area. Ukraine is the second-largest country in all of Europe, after Russia itself. But like Russia, its past is one marked by great political upheaval and a string of tragedies that have changed the makeup of its society over time. Donbas, the scene of great influx of peoples Now home to a majority of Russian-speaking people, they moved there only in recent decades. Now, Russia has given more than 720,000 Russian passports to roughly one-fifth of the region’s population, according to The Associated Press. This effectively makes them Russian citizens and creates a pretext for war, as the country can state that its troops are being sent there to protect Russian citizens. Known for many centuries as the “Wild Fields” in the Ukrainian language, although it was basically unpopulated up until the second half of the 17th century, the Donetsk and Luhansk regions that comprise the Donbas include both areas that are controlled by Kyiv as well as those that are under Russian separatist rule. The word Donbass (or Donbas,) a portmanteau from Donets Basin, is an abbreviation of the phrase “Donets Coal Basin.” Clearly, its ore reserves have been the greatest draw for those who covet its riches. Its vast coal reserves have allowed for the growth of major steel production in the area. The historical coal mining region included areas in the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast and Southern Russia, as well, while a Euroregion of the same name is composed of the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts in Ukraine and Rostov Oblast in Russia. Although it has been an important coal mining area since the late 19th century, when it became heavily industrialized, the region was almost completely depopulated after being inhabited for centuries by various nomadic tribes such as the Scythians, Alans, Huns, Bulgars, Pechenegs, Kipchaks, Turco-Mongols, Tatars, and Nogais. The Donbas lay largely unpopulated for some time until the second half of the 1600s, when Don Cossacks established the first permanent settlements in the region. The first town in the region was founded in 1676, called Solanoye (now Soledar), which became home to a profitable business based on the newly discovered rock-salt reserves nearby. Cossacks, Turkic Crimeans, Russians, Serbians, and Greeks all moved to Donbas The Donbas remained for the most part under the control of the Ukrainian Cossack Hetmanate and the Turkic Crimean Khanate until the mid-late 18th century, when the Russian Empire conquered the Hetmanate and annexed the Khanate. At the end of the 18th century, many Russians, Serbs, and Greeks migrated to the region. At that time, Russia named the conquered territories “New Russia.” As the Industrial Revolution expanded all across Europe, the enormous coal resources of the region, which were first discovered in 1721, began to be exploited in the mid-late 19th century. The river valley of the Donetsk is the center of the coal deposits. The meteoric rise of the coal industry led to a population boom in the region, which was largely driven by Russian settlers. The region was then comprised of the counties of Bakhmut, Slovianserbsk, and Mariupol, the latter being a Greek city in which many Greeks still live. Further coal exploitation led to even more Russian influence in the region after the founding of Donetsk, its largest city, in 1869 by Welsh businessman John Hughes. Located in the old Zaporozhian Cossack town of Oleksandrivka, the entire city was renamed “Yuzovka” after Hughes, who built a steel mill there. With the growth of Yuzovka and similar cities which were based on the rich natural resources of the area came landless peasants from peripheral governorates of the Russian Empire who moved there looking for work. Yuzovka was later renamed “Donetsk” by the Soviet Union in 1924. According to the Russian Imperial Census of 1897, Ukrainians comprised 52.4 percent of the population of the region while ethnic Russians comprised 28.7%. Greeks, Germans, Jews, and Tatars also had a significant presence in the Donbas, particularly in the district of Mariupol, where they comprised 36.7 percent of the population. The Donbas, a scene of upheaval, revolution, and genocide However, it was Russians who made up the majority of the industrial workforce and the population of cities while Ukrainians dominated rural areas. Meanwhile, the Ukrainians who moved to the cities for work were quickly assimilated into the Russian-speaking worker class, a trend which was accelerated after the rise of the Bolsheviks and the formation of the Soviet Union. In April 1918, troops loyal to the Ukrainian People’s Republic took control of large parts of the region. For a while, its government bodies operated in the Donbas alongside their Russian Provisional Government equivalents. The Ukrainian State, the successor of the Ukrainian People’s Republic, was able in May 1918 to bring the region under control for a short time with the help of its German and Austro-Hungarian allies. Along with other territories inhabited by Ukrainians, the Donbas was incorporated into the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic after the Russian Civil War. Cossacks in the region were subjected to a campaign called “decossackisation” from 1919 to 1921. “To kill by starvation” Ukrainians living in the Donbas were further decimated by the state-sponsored 1932–33 Holodomor (meaning ‘to kill by starvation’) famine and the Russification policy of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin. Since most ethnic Ukrainians were rural peasant farmers, they bore the brunt of the famine, with the government confiscating their land and removing any means they had to feed themselves. The term Holodomor emphasizes the famine’s man-made and intentional aspects of the atrocity, including rejection of outside aid, confiscation of all household foodstuffs and restriction of population movement so that no one was allowed to leave the region to find sustenance elsewhere. As part of the wider Soviet famine of 1932–1933 which affected the major grain-producing areas of the country, millions of inhabitants of Ukraine, the majority of whom by now were ethnic Ukrainians, died of starvation in a peacetime catastrophe that was unprecedented in the history of the country. Since 2006, the Holodomor has been recognized by Ukraine and fifteen other countries as a genocide of the Ukrainian people carried out by the Soviet government. Early estimates of the death toll by scholars and government officials varied greatly. A United Nations joint statement signed by 25 countries in 2003 declared that 7–10 million perished. Current scholarship estimates a range of four to seven million victims with more precise estimates ranging from 3.3 to 5 million. According to the findings of the Court of Appeal of Kyiv in 2010, the total demographic losses due to the famine amounted to ten million, however, with 3.9 million direct famine deaths and a further 6.1 million birth deficits. Russification stepped up after depopulation from WWII Donbas was greatly affected by the Second World War. War preparations resulted in an extension of the working day for factory laborers, while those who could not produce according to the new standards were arrested. Adolf Hitler viewed the resources of the Donbas as critical to Operation Barbarossa, his plan for the invasion of Russia. The region accordingly suffered greatly under Nazi occupation during 1941 and 1942. Thousands of industrial laborers were deported to Germany and forced to work in factories. In the Donetsk Oblast alone, 279,000 civilians were killed over the course of the occupation. In what is now now the Luhansk Oblast, 45,649 were killed. The 1943 Donbas strategic offensive by the Red Army resulted in the return of Donbas to Soviet control, but the famine and the war had taken an enormous toll, leaving the region both destroyed and once again depopulated. It was during the subsequent period of reconstruction that the Donbass received its most recent wave of Russian citizens after masses of Russian workers descended on the area after the War. By 1959, the number of ethnic Russians living there was 2.55 million; just 33 years prior, it had been just 639,000. The Russification of the area accelerated after the 1958–59 Soviet educational reforms, which led to the near elimination of all Ukrainian-language schooling in the Donbas. According to the Soviet Census of 1989, 45 percent of the population of the region reported their ethnicity as Russian. So it is no surprise that in the 1991 referendum on Ukrainian independence, 83.9 percent of voters in Donetsk and 83.6 percent in Luhansk supported independence from the Soviet Union. In October of 1991 a congress of southeastern deputies from all levels of government took place in Donetsk, where delegates demanded federalization. Constant unrest after 2014 The region’s economy deteriorated severely in the ensuing years, and by 1993, industrial production had collapsed, with average wages falling by 80 percent since 1990. Donbas was then in total crisis, with many accusing the new central government in Kyiv of mismanagement and neglect. Donbas’ invaluable coal miners went on strike in 1993, causing a conflict that was described by historian Lewis Siegelbaum as “a struggle between the Donbas region and the rest of the country.” One strike leader said that Donbas people had voted for independence because they wanted “power to be given to the localities, enterprises, cities” and not because they wanted heavily centralized power moved from “Moscow to Kyiv.” This strike was followed by a 1994 consultative referendum on various constitutional questions in Donetsk and Luhansk, held concurrently with the first parliamentary elections in independent Ukraine. These questions included whether Russian should be declared an official language of Ukraine, whether Russian should be the language of administration in Donetsk and Luhansk, whether Ukraine should federalise, and whether Ukraine should have closer ties with the Commonwealth of Independent States, the remnants of the Soviet Union. Almost 90% of voters voted in favor of these propositions; however, none of them were adopted: Ukraine remained a unitary state, Ukrainian was retained as the sole official language, and the Donbas gained no autonomy. In March of 2014, following the Euromaidan and the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, large swaths of the Donbas experienced major unrest. This later grew into a war, with pro-Russian separatists affiliated with the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk “People’s Republics,” both of which are now recognized by Russia but not by any other member of the United Nations as legitimate. Pro-Russian separatists in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions took over government buildings in 2014, proclaiming the regions as independent “people’s republics” after Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. Since 2014, more than 14,000 people have been killed in fighting in the Donbas region between pro-Russian separatists and Ukrainian forces. Ukraine and the West accuse Russia of backing the separatists both militarily and financially. Amid the fighting, a Malaysian airliner was shot down over eastern Ukraine in 2014, killing all 298 people on board in a shocking event which catapulted the unrest onto the world stage once again. International investigators concluded the missile was supplied by Russia and fired from an area controlled by pro-Russian separatists; Russia has denied involvement in the shooting down of the airplane. On Monday, Putin announced the independence of the regions after meeting with the Russian Security Council following a video appeal by the regions’ separatist leaders for the recognition of independence. Each of the regions has its own self-proclaimed president, with Denis Pushilin elected in 2018 to lead the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic, while Leonid Pasechnik is the leader of the Luhansk separatist region. Russia’s recognition of the independence of the regions on Monday in effect ends the Minsk peace agreements, which were never fully implemented in any case. The agreements, which were signed in 2014 and 2015, had called for a large amount of autonomy for the two regions within Ukraine. See all the latest news from Greece and the world at Greekreporter.com. Contact our newsroom to report an update or send your story, photos and videos. Follow GR on Google News and subscribe here to our daily email!


--- [Russian annexation of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia oblasts] ---
No content


--- [Conflict in Ukraine's Donbas: A Visual Explainer] ---
Visual Explainer Conflict in Ukraine’s Donbas: A Visual Explainer SCROLL A Ukrainian service member walks along fighting positions on the contact line near the town of Avdiivka in Donetsk, on 13 February 2021. REUTERS/Oleksandr Klymenko Share Facebook Twitter Email Table of Contents Table of Contents Mapping Casualties Mapping Casualties A Breakdown of Casualties by Category and Cause Shelling and Negotiations Methodology & Terminology Share Facebook Twitter Email ENGLISH Türkçe Chinese French This page was designed as a resource to understand the conflict in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine that began in 2014. It provides critical background and downloadable data on the fighting that preceded Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 22 February 2022. We are no longer updating this page but you can find all our latest work on Russia’s war in Ukraine here. If you want direct access to all the data Crisis Group collected over the course of the project, visit its repository, made available here: https://crisisgroup.github.io/donbas-data-repo/ The data in this explainer is accurate as of early 2022 and it is available in downloadable form for those seeking information regarding this history. We hope you find it valuable. The armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine started in 2014. Between then and early 2022, it had already killed over 14,000 people. On 24 February 2022, Russia attacked Ukraine on several fronts beginning a major invasion. Ukraine's president declared martial law, vowing stiff resistance, as Western powers condemned Moscow's actions. Crisis Group will be covering this crisis in depth as it develops [see our Ukraine page]. The visual explainer below focuses not on the full-scale escalation that began on 24 February, but on fighting in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine that began in 2014. This provides crucial background for understanding what is happening today. The armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine started in 2014. Between then and early 2022, it had already killed over 14,000 people. Over the course of eight years, Ukrainian government forces fought Russian-backed separatists for control over much of the two heavily industrialised regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, also known as Donbas. Fierce battles in 2014-2015 ended with one third of the regions' territory, its most urbanised part, occupied by two Russian proxy statelets, the self-described Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics. Between September 2014 and February 2015, Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany signed several iterations of the so-called Minsk agreements, which eventually stopped the forward movement of troops and reduced fighting significantly. But the agreements were never implemented, and the fighting transformed into a trench war, with roughly 75,000 troops facing off along a 420-km-long front line cutting through densely populated areas. The war ruined the area's economy and heavy industries, forced millions to relocate and turned the conflict zone into one of the world’s most mine-contaminated areas. This visual explainer shows both the human cost of the war from 2014-early 2022 and the relationships between diplomatic efforts at de-escalation and patterns of fighting and loss of life. Mapping Casualties REUTERS/Baz Ratner Our two interactive heat maps show military fatalities and civilian casualties (deaths and injuries), broken down by month, and according to the location at which the incident occurred. Maps are centered on the combat zone – the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, divided along community boundaries. Both maps illustrate how the war's impact stretches far beyond military positions. Fatalities by Community (Combatants and Civilians) Military and Civilian Casualties By Location Download CSV Download XLSX Some months saw heavier fighting, and more deaths and injuries than others. Geographically, casualties tended to be concentrated where the sides were especially close to key infrastructure, to each other, or both. You can hover over the heat map and click on individual communities to get a sense of how casualties fluctuated over time, and where they occurred most often. Civilian casualty data in this heat map includes those killed and injured by live fire – in artillery or mortar strikes, or by bullet wounds from rifles or heavy machine guns. It also includes victims of landmines or explosive remnants of war, as well as those who died of natural causes queuing at checkpoints to cross into or from Ukrainian government-controlled territory.[fn] A Breakdown of Casualties by Category and Cause SPUTNIK/Sergey Averin Casualties by CauseCombatantsDownload CSVDownload XLSXCiviliansDownload CSVDownload XLSX Shelling and Negotiations Armed Forces of Ukraine/ANADOLU AGENCY/Anadolu Agency via AFP The intensity of the fighting differs from month to month. Our way to measure it is to rely on numbers of explosions as recorded by the Special Monitoring Mission of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE SMM) on a daily basis. The SMM was the only international observer mission allowed to collect information from all sides, and its data, while incomplete, remains the best available. To illustrate the correlation between diplomatic efforts and the dynamics of warfare, we provide the dates of ceasefire recommitments, overlaid on this chart showing the rise and decline of explosions over time. The number of reported explosions often decreased after ceasefires, only to rise again in the absence of a durable settlement. In 2021-22 two Russian military build-ups along the Ukrainian border foreshadowed an escalation, one in March and April 2021 and a second one in December 2021 through February 2022. Both these phases also saw an increase in reports that the OSCE Missions were denied access to the war zone by armed formations. This means that with the invasion drawing closer, the visibility of what was going on in the Donbas conflict zone declined. Eventually, on 24 February 2022, the day of the invasion, the OSCE announced it would evacuate its Mission. On 8 March, all of its international staff had left Ukraine. Local Mission members will remain in administrative functions in anticipation of the Mission’s revival, but the OSCE has suspended its reporting activities. https://www.osce.org/special-monitoring-mission-to-ukraine/513424 The decision of the Russian government to recognize the independence of the two separatist republics on 21 February 2022 effectively put an end to discussions of Minsk implementation. Three days later, Russia invaded Ukraine, heralding a new phase of the war with a scope of violence far beyond what is depicted here. Methodology & Terminology Sergey Averin/Sputnik/Sputnik via AFP Methodology Crisis Group prepared two major datasets on the conflict to support this visual explainer: A dataset of casualties that includes a dozen variables (age, gender, cause of death/injury, home region, etc.); The daily number of explosions in the conflict zone, as reported by the OSCE SMM; Crisis Group sourced this data from open sources in Ukraine and Russia from 2020 onward. Sources for the Visual Explainer included: OSCE and UN reports; Ukrainian military press releases; Russian and Ukrainian official statements and online media; Statements by de facto authorities; Social media reports (groups on Vkontakte, Facebook, etc.). We faced a number of limitations in tallying casualties. There was no unified source for casualties resulting from this conflict. While international organisations provided concrete, triangulated data on civilian casualties and the Ukrainian government issued detailed statements about its reported military losses, statements from de facto officials have been patchy. In many cases, Crisis Group has sought to triangulate data using social media posts or to gather more information through communications with private citizens. Information about conflict victims is often politicised. It is likely that some non-combat casualties among fighters on both sides have sometimes been reported as combat casualties, whether by officials or de facto officials, or by media. In cases where there was no information regarding location or cause of death or injury, we did not include the incident in our infographic. When faced with conflicting accounts regarding whether a soldier’s death or injury occurred in combat, we listed the cause as “other”. Finally, military and de facto officials sometimes did not disclose the location and cause of military deaths. When tallying fatalities among Russian-backed armed groups, Crisis Group only included those for which we could find at least one additional source. Sources reporting on combat casualties among the armed groups often use the word “обстрел”, a broad term that is usually translated from Russian as “shelling”, but which can in fact refer to artillery, small arms and light weapons fire. It is therefore possible we have overestimated the number of armed group fatalities caused by shelling. Furthermore, use of the term “обстрел” may in some cases indicate other causes of death, such as friendly fire or incidents related to unsafe handling of weapons. Crisis Group drew on the OSCE SMM daily reports for its data on the number of explosions. While the SMM also collected data on small arms fire, we have chosen not to include this in our graphs. Our focus has been on documenting major spikes in fighting that involved the use of larger caliber weapons. Explosions recorded by the OSCE have also been the most reliable indicator of combat dynamics available from open sources, with the added advantage that both sides used the same indicators, counting the number of shells (mortars and artillery) fired by the other side. Terminology Contact line: the 420km+ strip of land that divided the warring parties, shown on our maps as it was at the start of 2020. This has not changed much between 2015 and February 2022. Donbas conflict zone: the parts of the Ukrainian oblasts (regions) of Donetsk and Luhansk held by Russia-backed separatists, as well as those parts of Donetsk and Luhansk adjacent to the contact line that have been controlled by the Ukrainian government Civilian casualties: civilians who have been killed and injured in the conflict zone in circumstances directly resulting from the war. This includes those killed and injured by live fire, as well as those whose deaths or injuries resulted from mines or explosive remnants of war, regardless of whether they occurred near the contact line or not. It also includes those who died of health-related causes while queuing to cross the contact line. Conditions at crossing points were often suboptimal, and civilians waiting to cross may have lacked adequate shelter, rest facilities and medical services. Our main sources for civilian casualty data are the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission, the OSCE SMM and local media. Military fatalities: combat fatalities, on either warring side. Our data includes only those killed by live fire, mines and explosive devices. Crisis Group has excluded data on those wounded in action due to the complex and incomplete nature of the data. Shelling: an incident generally involving artillery or mortar fire. Crisis Group attributed casualties to this category when victims were reported to have suffered shrapnel injuries, or when other information about the circumstances of the death or injury suggested it resulted from shelling. Small arms: a category that includes weapons ranging from rifles to heavy machine guns. Casualties were placed in this category if sources indicated that the person suffered a gunshot injury. Drone attack: an incident typically involving an improvised combat drone, constructed by attaching ammunition or a grenade to a commercial unmanned aerial vehicle.
