=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Onsari Gharti Magar]
She was the first female Speaker of the Parliament of Nepal. She was elected unopposed as Speaker on October 16, 2015.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onsari_Gharti_Magar

[Onsari first woman Speaker in Nepal s history]
Oct 17, 2015 — Unified CPN-Maoist leader and former deputy speaker Onsari Gharti Magar was unanimously elected the Speaker of the Legislature-Parliament today.
URL: https://thehimalayantimes.com/kathmandu/onsari-first-woman-speaker-in-nepals-history

[Onsari Gharti Magar elected first female Speaker - Nepali ...]
Oct 16, 2015 · UCPN (Maoist) lawmaker and former Deputy Speaker of the Legislature-Parliament Onsari Gharti Magar has been elected unopposed the House Speaker. With this, she has become the first female Speaker in the parliamentary history of Nepal. She is the 8th Speaker elected in the parliament following the reinstatement of democratic system in 1989.
URL: https://nepaliheadlines.com/onsari-gharti-magar-elected-first-female-speaker/

[Parliament unanimously elects Gharti as Nepal's first woman ...]
Oct 16, 2015 · Parliament unanimously elects Gharti as Nepal's first woman Speaker KATHMANDU: The Parliament on Friday unanimously elected UCPN-Maoist lawmaker Onsari Gharti Magar the Speaker of House.
URL: https://thehimalayantimes.com/kathmandu/parliament-unanimously-elects-gharti-to-post-of-speaker/

[Onsari Gharti Magar elected first woman Speaker]
Oct 16, 2015 · UCPN (Maoist) candidate Onsari Gharti Magar was elected unopposed as the House speaker on Friday. Ghart’s unanimous election became possible after Nepal Majdoor Kisan Party candidate Anuradha Thapa withdrew her candidacy. Gharti has become the first female speaker in Nepal’s parliamentary ...
URL: https://kathmandupost.com/valley/2015/10/16/onsari-elected-first-woman-speaker


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Onsari Gharti Magar] ---
Onsari Gharti Magar (Nepali: ओनसरी घर्तिमगर) is a Nepali communist politician and current parliamentarian. She was the first female Speaker of the Parliament of Nepal. She was elected unopposed as Speaker on October 16, 2015.


--- [Onsari first woman Speaker in Nepal s history] ---
Onsari first woman Speaker in Nepal’s history Kathmandu, October 16 Unified CPN-Maoist leader and former deputy speaker Onsari Gharti Magar was unanimously elected the Speaker of the Legislature-Parliament today, becoming the first woman Speaker in the parliamentary history of Nepal. Gharti had resigned from her post of Deputy Speaker on Wednesday, along with Speaker Subas Chandra Nembang. Following the withdrawal of candidacy of Nepal Workers’ and Peasants’ Party lawmaker Anuradha Thapa Magar by her proposer Prem Suwal, acting speaker Laxman Rajbanshi declared Gharti Magar elected as the Speaker of the Legislature Parliament unanimously. CPN-UML Vice-chair Bidhya Devi Bhandari had proposed Onsari Gharti Magar’s name for the post of Speaker, while RPP-N lawmaker Kunti Kumari Shahi had seconded Bhandari’s proposal. Nepali Congress Vice-president Ramchandra Paudel said NC backed Gharti Magar for the Speaker’s post. He claimed that NC’s support for Onsari would result in increased cooperation among the major parties. Sources claimed that NC backed Onsari for the post of Speaker expecting support from the ruling coalition in the election of President and Vice-President. Not only did NC support Onsari’s candidacy, Paudel requested NWPP to withdraw from the race. Earlier the parliamentary party meeting of NC had issued a whip to all its lawmakers to vote for Gharti Magar. Biswendra Paswan of Bahujan Shakti Party, independent lawmakers Attahar Kamal Musalman, Yashoda Kumari Lama, Mithila Chaudhari, Seema Kumari BK, Milan Kumari Rajbanshi and Rajya Laxmi Shrestha addressed the Parliament in support of Gharti Magar. Meanwhile, Rastriya Prajatantra Party-Nepal lawmaker Ganga Prasad Yadav was elected Deputy Speaker. CPN-UML lawmaker Shatrughan Mahato proposed Ganga Prasad Yadav’s name for Deputy Speaker, seconded by UCPN-M whip Rekha Sharma. NWPP lawmaker Dilli Prasad Kafle had also filed his candidacy for Deputy Speaker but his candidacy was later withdrawn by his proposer Anuradha Thapa Magar. The next meeting of the Parliament has been scheduled for October 24. Gharti Magar said her victory helped the parties show a united face and thanked the lawmakers who helped her get elected unanimously. Yadav, an indigenous and a Madhesi leader, said his election was an example of inclusion. Former Maoist commander soldiers on KATHMANDU: Onsari Gharti Magar was one of the fighters who were involved in the first attack against the state during the Holeri incident when the then CPN-Maoist introduced armed conflict in the country. Born on November 14, 1977, at Jankot VDC of Rolpa, Gharti had begun her political journey from the student wing of the CPN (Unity Centre). In 1995, Onsari married her neighbour and CPN-Maoist leader Barshaman Pun, who helped her take big strides in her political career. The year she got married, she was involved in the attack by her party on a police post at Holeri. She went underground after the attack. She led the party-led fronts at different places, became the party’s central committee member in 2003 and a politburo member of Unified CPN-Maoist a decade later. Gharti became Constituent Assembly member through the Proportional Representation system during the first CA and was directly elected from Rolpa Constituency No 2 in the second CA before being elected Deputy Speaker. — HNS


--- [Onsari Gharti Magar elected first female Speaker - Nepali ...] ---
16 Oct, Kathmandu: UCPN (Maoist) lawmaker and former Deputy Speaker of the Legislature-Parliament Onsari Gharti Magar has been elected unopposed the House Speaker. With this, she has become the first female Speaker in the parliamentary history of Nepal. She is the 8th Speaker elected in the parliament following the reinstatement of democratic system in 1989. Gharti was elected uncontested after Nepal Workers’ and Peasants’ Party candidate Anuradha Thapa Magar withdrew her candidacy for Speaker at the Legislature-Parliament meeting on Friday. Senior most lawmaker Laxman Rajbanshi, who chaired the meeting, said Gharti was elected unanimously as there remained only one proposal for the post. Gharti was the immediate past Deputy Speaker in the former Constituent Assembly cum parliament. The CA transformed into a full parliament following the promulgation of the new constitution. The proponents for Gharti’s candidacy as the House Speaker include CPN (UML) lawmaker Bidya Devi Bhandari, Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal lawmaker Kunti Kumari Shahi and Bahujan Shakti Party lawmaker Bishwendra Paswan. The main opposition party Nepali Congress had also lent is full support to Gharti.


--- [Parliament unanimously elects Gharti as Nepal's first woman ...] ---
Parliament unanimously elects Gharti as Nepal's first woman Speaker KATHMANDU: The Parliament on Friday unanimously elected UCPN-Maoist lawmaker Onsari Gharti Magar the Speaker of House. Gharti was elected unanimously to the post after Nepal Workers and Peasants Party withdrew the candidacy of its lawmaker Anuradha Thapa Magar. With the victory, the Maoist leader became the first woman to lead the legislative body in Nepal's parliamentary history. Earlier, she had served the House as the Deputy Speaker. Gharti was backed by the ruling coalition, consisting of CPN-UML, UCPN-Maoist, Rastriya Prajatantra Party-Nepal, Madhesi Janaadhikar Forum-Democratic and some fringe parties. The main opposition Nepali Congress had also decided to support her. Speaking at the House meeting, NC Vice-President Ram Chandra Paudel said the party decided to support Gharti and Deputy Speaker's candidate Ganga Prasad Yadav as the Speaker and Deputy Speaker should be impartial and neutral, and a unanimous election would help them be so. CPN-UML Vice-Chairperson Bidya Bhandari had proposed nomination of Gharti while RPP-N's Kunti Kumari Shahi and Bahujan Shakti Party's Bishwendra Paswan had seconded it. READ ALSO:


--- [Onsari Gharti Magar elected first woman Speaker] ---
Valley Onsari Gharti Magar elected first woman Speaker UCPN (Maoist) candidate Onsari Gharti Magar was elected unopposed as the House speaker on Friday.UCPN (Maoist) candidate Onsari Gharti Magar was elected unopposed as the House speaker on Friday. Ghart’s unanimous election became possible after Nepal Majdoor Kisan Party candidate Anuradha Thapa withdrew her candidacy. Gharti has become the first female speaker in Nepal’s parliamentary history. She was the former Deputy Speaker and had served as Minister for Youth and Sports in the Cabinet led by Jhala Nath Khanal. CPN-UML lawmaker Bidya Devi Bhandari proposed her name and Rastriya Prajatantra Party-Nepal, among other fringe parties, seconded her candidacy. Gharti became involved in active politics since the days of UCPN (Maoist) revolt. She was elected to the Constituent Assembly (CA) from Rolpa constituency-2 in the second CA election. She was the only candidate to be elected under direct electoral system. Even the main opposition party Nepali Congress supported her candidacy. Gharti’s husband Barsha Man Pun is the secretary of UCPN (Maoist). Yadav deputy speaker Likewise, Rastriya Prajatantra Party –Nepal lawmaker Ganga Prasad Yadav has been elected as the deputy speaker.
