=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[GiulioCarloArgan- Wikipedia]
GiulioCarloArgan(17 May 1909 – 12 November 1992)wasan Italian art historian, critic and politician.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giulio_Carlo_Argan

[Astrological chart ofGiulioCarloArgan,born1909/05/17]
GiulioCarloArgan: Astrological Article and Chart.Herearesome character traits fromGiulioCarloArgan's birth chart. This descriptionisfar frombeingcomprehensive but it can shed light on his/her personality, whichisstill interesting for professional astrologers or astrology lovers.
URL: https://www.astrotheme.com/astrology/Giulio_Carlo_Argan

[Olympedia –GiulioCarloArgan]
GiulioCarloArganstudied art history at the University of Turin andwasparticularly interested in architecture. In 1931, he graduated with a thesis entitled “La teoria di architettura di Sebastiano Serlio”.
URL: https://www.olympedia.org/athletes/5005213

[GiulioCarloArgan- Spouse, Children, Birthday & More]
Find out whereGiulioCarloArganwasborn, their birthday and details about their professions, education, religion, family and other life details and facts.
URL: https://playback.fm/person/giulio-carlo-argan

[Olympedia –GiulioCarloArgan]
Used name.GiulioCarlo•Argan.Born. 17 May 1909 in Torino, Torino (ITA).GiulioCarloArganstudied art history at the University of Turin andwasparticularly interested in architecture. In 1931, he graduated with a thesis entitled “La teoria di architettura di Sebastiano Serlio”.
URL: http://olympedia-pro.t5tyuwenpa.eu-west-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/athletes/5005213


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [GiulioCarloArgan- Wikipedia] ---
Giulio Carlo Argan (17 May 1909 – 12 November 1992) was an Italian art historian, critic and politician.




--- [Astrological chart ofGiulioCarloArgan,born1909/05/17] ---
| Advertisements | ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| | Wed. 4 Mar., 07:15 PM UT Moon Phase Waning Moon, 97.95% Full Moon Thu. 19 Mar., 01:26 AM UT Celebrity Search Astrology Calculations The Basics of Astrology | Giulio Carlo Argan: Astrological Article and ChartYou will find below the interactive birth chart of Giulio Carlo Argan, an excerpt of his astrological portrait, and his planetary dominants. Giulio Carlo Argan Birth data and astrological dominants Additional information on the source of the birth time is sometimes available in the biography excerpt below. Birth charts having the same Big Three (Sun in Taurus, Moon in Taurus, Ascendant in Sagittarius) : Bruno Madinier, Alexandra Ledermann, Mano Solo, Giorgia (singer), Ralf Gothoni, Florent Peyre, Franz Lehár, Laurence Manfrédi, Sheila Scott... List of all the celebrities having the same Big Three. Birth charts having the same aspect Mars trine Midheaven (orb 0°01'): Emma Watson, Zendaya, Mel Gibson, Clint Eastwood, Priyanka Chopra, Bono (U2), Woody Allen, Eva Green, Daniel Craig... Find all the celebrities having this aspect. Birth charts having the same aspect Mercury sextile Saturn (orb 0°06'): Cameron Diaz, Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, Emma Stone, Charles III, Penélope Cruz, Mel Gibson, Grimes (musician), Jennifer Garner, Eva Green... Find all the celebrities having this aspect. Celebrities born the same day: Trent Reznor, Enya, Nikki Reed, Karrueche Tran, Craig Ferguson, Jean Gabin, Tony Parker, Adel Imam, Princess Máxima of the Netherlands... List of all the celebrities born on May 17. Birth charts having the Moon in 3° Taurus : Elton John, Abbé Pierre, Dennis Rodman, Juliette Gréco, Geena Davis, Jean-Luc Godard, Yann Moix, Francis of Assisi, Catherine Barma... List of all the celebrities having the Moon in 3° Taurus. Astrology DataBase on March 4, 2026 at 4:07 PM, CEST 76 457 people and events, 38 871 of them with a known time of birth Search by profession, aspect, position, category, date, or birthday 1 125 969 523 birth charts viewed Birth chart of Giulio Carlo Argan (Placidus system)Select an object to display more information Aries March 21 - April 20 1st Fire sign - 1st Cardinal sign (spring equinox) - Masculine In analogy with Mars, his ruler, and the 1st House Aries governs the head. His colour is red, his stone is the heliotrope, his day is Tuesday, and his professions are businessman, policeman, sportsman, surgeon... If your sign is Aries or your Ascendant is Aries: you are courageous, frank, enthusiastic, dynamic, fast, bold, expansive, warm, impulsive, adventurous, intrepid, warlike, competitive, but also naive, domineering, self-centred, impatient, rash, thoughtless, blundering, childish, quick-tempered, daring or primitive. Some traditional associations with Aries: Countries: England, France, Germany, Denmark. Cities: Marseille, Florence, Naples, Birmingham, Wroclaw, Leicester, Capua, Verona. Animals: Rams and sheeps. Food: Leeks, hops, onions, shallots, spices. Herbs and aromatics: mustard, capers, Cayenne pepper, chilli peppers. Flowers and plants: thistles, mint, bryonies, honeysuckles. Trees: hawthorns, thorny trees and bushes. Stones, Metals and Salts: diamonds, iron, potassium phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Aries. Taurus April 21 - May 20 1st Earth sign - 1st Fixed sign - Feminine In analogy with Venus, his ruler, and the 2nd House Taurus governs the neck and the throat. Her colour is green or brown, her stone is the emerald, her day is Friday, her professions are cook, artist, estate agent, banker, singer... If your sign is Taurus or your Ascendant is Taurus: you are faithful, constant, sturdy, patient, tough, persevering, strong, focused, sensual, stable, concrete, realistic, steady, loyal, robust, constructive, tenacious. You need security, but you are also stubborn, rigid, possessive, spiteful, materialistic, fixed or slow. Some traditional associations with Taurus: Countries: Switzerland, Greek islands, Ireland, Cyprus, Iran. Cities: Dublin, Palermo, Parma, Luzern, Mantua, Leipzig, Saint Louis, Ischia, Capri. Animals: bovines. Food: apples, pears, berries, corn and other cereals, grapes, artichokes, asparagus, beans. Herbs and aromatics: sorrels, spearmint, cloves. Flowers and plants: poppies, roses, digitales, violets, primroses, aquilegia, daisies. Trees: apple trees, pear trees, fig-trees, cypresses, ash trees. Stones, Metals and Salts: copper, calcium and potassium sulphate, emeralds. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Taurus. Gemini May 21 - June 21 1st Air sign - 1st Mutable sign - Masculine In analogy with Mercury, his ruler, and the 3rd House Gemini governs the arms, the lungs and the thorax. His colour is green or silver, his stone is the crystal, his day is Wednesday, his professions are journalist, lawyer, presenter, dancer, salesman, travel agent, teacher... If your sign is Gemini or if your Ascendant is Gemini: you are expressive, lively, adaptable, quick-witted, humorous, sparkling, playful, sociable, clever, curious, whimsical, independent, polyvalent, brainy, flexible, ingenious, imaginative, charming, fanciful but also capricious, scattered, moody, shallow, inquisitive, opportunistic, unconcerned, selfish, fragile, ironical or changeable. Some traditional associations with Gemini: Countries: Belgium, Wales, United-States, Lower Egypt, Sardinia, Armenia. Cities: London, Plymouth, Cardiff, Melbourne, San Francisco, Nuremberg, Bruges, Versailles. Animals: monkeys, butterflies, parrots, budgerigars. Food: dried fruits, chestnuts, ground-level vegetables: peas, broad beans, etc. Herbs and aromatics: aniseed, marjoram, lemon balm, cumin. Flowers and plants: lilies of the valley, lavenders, myrtle, ferns, Venus-hair-ferns, bittersweets. Trees: nut trees such as chestnut trees. Stones, Metals and Salts: agates, mercury, silicas and potashes. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Gemini. Cancer June 22 - July 22 1st Water sign - 2nd Cardinal sign (summer solstice) - Feminine In analogy with the Moon, her ruler, and the 4th House Cancer governs the stomach and the breast. Her colour is white or black, her stone is the moonstone, her day is Monday, her professions are catering, the hotel trade, property, antique dealer, archaeologist... If your sign is Cancer or your Ascendant is Cancer: you are emotional, sentimental, peaceful, imaginative, sensitive, faithful, resistant, protective, vulnerable, generous, romantic, nostalgic, tender, poetic-minded, motherly or fatherly, dreamy, indolent, greedy, devoted but also timorous, unrealistic, evasive, passive, anxious, dependent, stubborn, moody, passive, lazy, touchy, stay-at-home or inaccessible. Some traditional associations with Cancer: Countries: Holland, Scotland, North and West Africa, New-Zealand, Paraguay, Algeria. Cities: Amsterdam, Manchester, Tokyo, New York, Istanbul, Stockholm, Milan, Venice, Genoa, Cadix, Alger, Tunis, Bern, Magdeburg. Animals: crabs, animals with shells. Food: milk, fishes, watery fruits and vegetables, turnips, white and red cabbages. Herbs and aromatics: tarragon, verbena, saxifrage. Flowers and plants: geraniums, white roses and white flowers in general, water lilies, morning glory, bear's breeches, and lilies. Trees: all trees full of sap. Stones, Metals and Salts: pearls, silver, lime and calcium phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Cancer. Leo July 23 - August 22 2nd Fire sign - 2nd Fixed sign - Masculine In analogy with the Sun, his ruler, and the 5th House Leo governs the heart and the spine, and the eyes, according to some authors. His colour is gold or orange, his stone is the diamond, his day is Sunday, his professions are actor, manager, jeweller, fashion and arts, and action (e.g. fireman)... If your sign is Leo or your Ascendant is Leo: you are proud, determined, strong-willed, loyal, solemn, generous, ambitious, courageous, heroic, conquering, creative, confident, seductive, happy, daring, fiery, majestic, honest, magnanimous, charismatic, responsible, noble, dramatic but also domineering, vain, susceptible, bossy, stubborn, intolerant, self-centred, violent, quick-tempered, nonchalant. Some traditional associations with Leo: Countries: Italy, Romania, Sicily, Czechoslovakia, Iraq, Lebanon, Southern France. Cities: Rome, Prague, Bombay, Madrid, Philadelphia, Chicago, Los Angeles, Bath, Bristol, Portsmouth, Syracuse, Damas. Animals: lions and felines in general. Food: meat and especially red meat, rice, honey, cereals, grapes, iron-rich vegetables: watercress, spinach etc. Herbs and aromatics: saffron, mint, rosemary, common rue (Ruta graveolens). Flowers and plants: marigolds, sunflowers, celandines, passion flowers. Trees: palm trees, laurel, walnuts, olive trees, lemon and orange trees. Stones, Metals and Salts: gold, rubies, magnesium and sodium phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Leo. Virgo August 23 - September 22 2nd Earth sign - 2nd Mutable sign - Feminine In analogy with Mercury, her ruler, and the 6th house Virgo governs the intestine. Her colour is green or yellow, her stone is the agate, her day is Wednesday, her professions are accountant, secretary, writer, computer scientist, nurse, doctor... If your sign is Virgo or your Ascendant is Virgo: you are brainy, perspicacious, attentive to detail and numbers, analytical, serious, competent, scrupulous, sensible, modest, logical, tidy, well-organized, clean, hard-working, provident, honest, faithful, reserved, shy, helpful, a perfectionist, but also narrow-minded, calculating, irritating, petty, anxious, cold, repressed or caustic. Some traditional associations with Virgo: Countries: Brazil, Greece, Turkey, West Indies, United-States (the same as Gemini), Yugoslavia, Crete, Mesopotamia, Lower Silesia, State of Virginia. Cities: Paris, Boston, Athens, Lyon, Corinthia, Heidelberg, spa towns in general. Animals: dogs, cats and all pets. Food: root vegetables: carrots, celeriac, kohlrabies, potatoes etc... Also dried fruits such as chestnuts. Herbs and aromatics: the same as Gemini whose ruler is Mercury too, lilies of the valley, lavenders, myrtles, ferns, Venus-hair-ferns, bittersweets, clovers. Flowers and plants: small bright-coloured flowers, especially blue and yellow, such as dandelions, buttercups, yellow dead-nettles, buglosses, forget-me-nots ; cardamoms, oak leaves, acorns. Trees: all nut trees, e.g. the hazelnut tree... Stones, Metals and Salts: sards (red agate), mercury, nickel, potassium sulphate and iron phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Virgo. Libra September 23 - October 22 2nd Air sign - 3rd Cardinal sign (autumn equinox) - Masculine In analogy with Venus, his ruler and the 7th House Libra governs the kidneys and the bladder. His colour is blue or red (not too bright), his stone is the opal, his day is Friday, his professions are in the beauty, luxury or fashion industry, musician, artistic creator, lawyer, mediator... If your sign is Libra or your Ascendant is Libra: you are sentimental, charming, polite, refined, loyal, a pacifist, fair, distinguished, light-hearted, romantic, learned, ethereal, nice, well-groomed, a perfectionist, calm, sweet, tolerant, sociable, elegant, considerate, seductive, aesthetic, indulgent, but also hesitant, weak, indecisive, selfish, fragile, fearful, indolent, cool or even insensitive. Some traditional associations with Libra: Countries: Japan, Canada, Indo-China, South Pacific Islands, Burma, Argentina, Upper Egypt, Tibet. Cities: Lisbon, Vienna, Frankfurt, Leeds, Nottingham, Johannesburg, Antwerp, Fribourg. Animals: lizards and small reptiles. Food: berries, apples, pears, grapes, artichokes, asparagus, beans, spices, corn and other cereals. Herbs and aromatics: mint, Cayenne pepper. Flowers and plants: hydrangea, big roses, blue flowers and those associated with Taurus also ruled by Venus, namely, poppies, digitales, violets, primroses, aquilegia, and daisies. Trees: ash trees, poplars, apple trees, pear trees, fig-trees, cypresses. Stones, Metals and Salts: sapphires, jade, copper, potassium and sodium phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Libra. Scorpio October 23 - November 21 2nd Water sign - 3rd Fixed sign - Feminine In analogy with Pluto, her ruler with Mars, and the 8th House Scorpio governs the sexual organs and the anus. Her colour is black or dark red, her stone is the malachite, her day is Tuesday, her professions are gynaecologist, psychiatrist, detective, the military, army, stockbroker, asset managemer... If your sign is Scorpio or your Ascendant is Scorpio: you are secretive, powerful, domineering, resistant, intuitive, asserted, charismatic, magnetic, strong-willed, perspicacious, passionate, creative, independent, vigorous, generous, loyal, hard-working, persevering, untameable, possessive, cunning, ambitious, sexual, proud, intense, competitive but also aggressive, destructive, stubborn, anxious, tyrannical, perverse, sadistic, violent, self-centred, complex, jealous. Some traditional associations with Scorpio: Countries: Morocco, Norway, Algeria, Syria, Korea, Uruguay, Transvaal. Cities: Washington, New Orleans, Valencia, Liverpool, Milwaukee, Fes, Halifax, Hull, Cincinnati. Animals: insects and other invertebrates. Food: the same strong tasting food as for Aries: red meat, garlic, onions, leeks, spices. Herbs and aromatics: aloes, witch hazels, nepeta, mustard, capers, peppers. Flowers and plants: geraniums, rhododendrons, thistles, mint, honeysuckles. Trees: blackthorns, bushes. Stones, Metals and Salts: opals, steel and iron, calcium and sodium sulphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Scorpio. Sagittarius November 22 - December 20 3rd Fire sign - 3rd Mutable sign - Masculine In analogy with Jupiter, his ruler, and the 9th House Sagittarius governs the thighs and the liver. His colour is indigo, orange or red, his stone is the carbuncle, his day is Thursday, his professions are explorer, commercial traveller, pilot, philosopher, writer, clergyman... If your sign is Sagittarius or your Ascendant is Sagittarius: you are charismatic, fiery, energetic, likeable, benevolent, tidy, jovial, optimistic, extraverted, amusing, straightforward, demonstrative, charming, independent, adventurous, straightforward, bold, exuberant, freedom-loving, but also angry, egotistical, authoritarian, inconstant, unfaithful, brutal, unreliable, unconscious, tactless, or derogatory. Some traditional associations with Sagittarius: Countries: Spain, Australia, Hungary, South Africa, Arabia, Yugoslavia. Cities: Stuttgart, Toledo, Budapest, Cologne, Avignon, Sheffield, Naples, Toronto. Animals: fallow deers, hinds, and the family Cervidae. Food: grapefruits, raisins, onions, leeks, bulb vegetables. Herbs and aromatics: aniseeds, sage, bilberries, cinnamon, borage, mosses, sage, blueberry, patience, balsam. Flowers and plants: dandelions, carnations, thistles. Trees: mulberry trees, chestnut trees, ash trees, lemon trees, oaks. Stones, Metals and Salts: topaz, tin, silica, potassium chloride. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Sagittarius. Capricorn December 21 - January 19 3rd Earth sign - 4th Cardinal sign (winter solstice) - Feminine In analogy with Saturn, her ruler, and the 10th House Capricorn governs the knees, the bones and the skin. Her colour is black, or grey, green or brown, her stone is the jade, her day is Saturday, her professions are politician, researcher, jurist, scientist, engineer, administrator... If your sign is Capricorn or your Ascendant is Capricorn: you are serious, cold, disciplined, patient, focused, thoughtful, ambitious, indomitable, cautious, lucid, persistent, provident, steady, introverted, stern, wilful, hard-working, responsible, persevering, honest, realistic, loyal, reserved, resolute, moralistic, quiet, rigorous, attached and reliable. But you may also be curt, withdrawn, calculating, petty, cruel, unpleasant, ruthless, selfish, dull, rigid, slow or sceptical. Some traditional associations with Capricorn: Countries: India, Mexico, Afghanistan, Macedonia, Thrace, the Yugoslavian coast, the Orkneys and Shetland Islands, Albania, Bulgaria, Saxony. Cities: Delhi, Oxford, Brussels, Mexico, Port-Saïd, Gent, Constance, Mecklenburg, all the administrative centres of capital cities. Animals: goats, pigs and animals with split hooves. Food: meat, potatoes, barley, beets, spinach, medlars, onions, quinces, flour and starchy food in general. Herbs and aromatics: indian hemp, comfreys, centaureas, hemlocks, henbanes. Flowers and plants: ivies, wild pansies, amaranths, pansies. Trees: pines, willows, flowering ashes, aspens, poplars, alders. Stones, Metals and Salts: turquoises, amethysts, silver, lead, calcium phosphate, calcium fluorine. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Capricorn. Aquarius January 20 - February 18 3rd Air sign - 4th Fixed sign - Masculine In analogy with Uranus his ruler, with Saturn, and the 11th House Aquarius governs the ankles and the legs. His colour is navy blue or indigo, his stone is the sapphire, his day is Saturday, his professions are astrologer, high technologies, scientist, astronaut, psychiatrist, actor, electrician... If your sign is Aquarius or your Ascendant is Aquarius: you are idealistic, altruistic, detached, independent, original, surprising, gifted, contradictory, innovative, humanistic, likeable, friendly, self-confident, impassive, quiet, intuitive, creative, charitable, elusive, disconcerting, generous, tolerant, paradoxical, and you cannot stand any kind of constraint. But you may also be marginal, resigned, distant, utopian, maladjusted, eccentric and cold. Some traditional associations with Aquarius: Countries: Russia, Sweden, Poland, Israel, Iran, Abyssinia. Cities: Moscow, Salzburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Saint Petersburg. Animals: long distance big birds such as the albatross. Food: citrus fruits, apples, limes, dried fruits and easily preserved food. Herbs and aromatics: peppers, hot red peppers, star-fruits, and generally herbs that are spicy or with an unusual flavour. Flowers and plants: orchids, dancing ladies, polygonatum. Trees: fruit trees. Stones, Metals and Salts: aquamarines, aluminium, sodium chloride and magnesium phosphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Aquarius. Pisces February 19 - March 20 3rd Water sign - 4th Mutable sign - Feminine In analogy with Neptune her ruler with Jupiter, and the 12th House Pisces governs the feet and the blood circulation. Her colour is green or purple or turquoise blue, her stone is the amethyst, her day is Thursday, her professions are seamanship and and faraway travels, musician, social and emergency worker, doctor, writer and jobs in remote places... If your sign is Pisces or your Ascendant is Pisces: you are emotional, sensitive, dedicated, adaptable, nice, wild, compassionate, romantic, imaginative, flexible, opportunist, intuitive, impossible to categorized, irrational, seductive, placid, secretive, introverted, pleasant, artistic, and charming. But you may also be indecisive, moody, confused, wavering, lazy, scatterbrained, vulnerable, unpredictable and gullible. Some traditional associations with Pisces: Countries: Portugal, Scandinavia, small Mediterranean islands, Gobi desert, Sahara. Cities: Jerusalem, Warsaw, Alexandria, Seville, Santiago de Compostela. Animals: fishes, aquatic mammals and all animals living in the water. Food: melons, cucumbers, lettuces, vegemite sugar, pumpkins. Herbs and aromatics: lemon, chicory, limes, mosses. Flowers and plants: water lilies, willows, aquatic plants. Trees: fig-trees, willows, aquatic trees. Stones, Metals and Salts: heliotropes, moonstone, platinum, tin, iron phosphate and potassium sulphate. For more information, see the page dedicated to the sign of Pisces. Sun 26°18' Taurus, in House V Sun Aspects Sun conjunction Venus orb +5°04' Sun square Mars orb +1°22' Sun trine Uranus orb +5°24' Sun inconjunction Ascendant orb -1°17' Sun inconjunction Midheaven orb -1°21' Sun semi-sextile Pluto orb -1°39' The Sun represents vitality, individuality, will-power and creative energy and honours. For a woman, it also represents her father, and later her husband. The Sun is one of the most important symbols in the birth chart, as much as the Ascendant, then the Moon (a bit less for a man), the ruler of the Ascendant and the fast-moving planets. It's element is fire; it is hot and dry, it governs Leo, is in exaltation in Aries and is in analogy with the heart. It represents the boss, authority, beside the father and the husband ; the age of the Sun goes from 20 years old to about 40, following the Venus age when one is aware of his seductive power. Temperament: Bilious Characterology: Emotive, Active, Secondary, passionate type. For more information, see the page dedicated to the Sun. Sun in TaurusYou spend your fortune and your energy advisedly. You are realistic and you distrust revolutions, sudden changes and love at first sight. You are very attached to your roots and you create a steady basis for yourself. You may be considered to be stubborn and you grant your confidence after thorough reflection only. "Resistance" is Taurus' keyword. This sign is believed to be untiring, hard-working and stable to the utmost. People readily credit you with the ability to remind everyone of the necessities of concrete situations and to moderate people's excesses. In principle, you are apt for long-term management, you can protect the foundations of an activity as the reliable guardian of assets and the guarantor for stability. Your distrust for novelties is your strength. It requires much more than an alluring idea to persuade you to change your direction. Scepticism is a quality here: it is safer to take advantage of past experiences rather than to rely on very hypothetical sporadic strokes of luck. Taurus is not a weather wane! However, it is important that you learn to question yourself and to respond to new opportunities in a timely manner. Sun in House VIn your natal chart, the Sun is in the 5th House. Creativity is one of your major values. Without giving birth to a fulfilling work, or to a child, and without enjoying the thrills of a passionate and dramatic love, life is meaningless. To you, it is vital that people do not forget you. Love, teaching, and children, the traditional meanings of the 5th House, enable you to offer the nice aspects of your personality, to give and to receive, for posterity. Sun DominantIf the Sun is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Solarian: you loathe pettiness and Machiavellian manoeuvre, and you are fond of natural nobleness as well as of direct and honest attitudes. You endeavour to get out of muddled or dark situations as quickly as possible. Your need for transparency may lead you to make cut-and-dried judgments such as yes or no, and black or white. However, your honesty commands your entourage's consideration. At times, you come across as authoritarian. It is true that you never want to be thought of the notable absentee, and that you manage to make people pay attention to you, as well as to your plans and your assessments. To this end, the Solarian sometimes develops a great talent for placing himself under the spotlight without missing a single opportunity to arouse interest. Some other Solarians, although more discreet, still manage to be the focus of any debate, even in situations of exclusion. It is your way of being present even though you are actually not there... More than other people, you appreciate the esteem extended to you. It is useless to cheat with you, since in all areas you consider establishing enduring relationships only with those who love you, admire you, respect you, or express some degree of affection to you. Your will to straighten out your inter-personal relationships is your strength and sometimes, your Achilles' heel. You cannot achieve anything behind the scenes. Therefore, your comportment is marked with heroism, and your stands are devoid of ambiguity, in the sense that your commitments are unfailing, and your rebuffs, final. Interpretation of the 26° Taurus symbolic degree"An alchemist works in his laboratory. A heap of gold coins are on his table. The window overlooks a field covered with wheat." (Janduz version)Ingenious, simple and noble character. Success and wealth are achieved in an unusual profession or in activities dealing with metal. It is most likely that a major discovery or invention is rewarded by a prestigious prize. Even though one earns a lot of money, one does not change one's frugal lifestyle. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Moon 3°38' Taurus, in House IV Moon Aspects Moon trine Jupiter orb +1°17' Moon semi-square Mercury orb -0°20' Moon trine Ascendant orb +6°02' Moon quintile Neptune orb -0°35' Moon opposite Midheaven orb -8°42' The Moon represents instinctive reaction, unconscious predestination, everyday mood, sensitivity, emotions, the feminine side of the personality, intuition, imagination. For a man, she represents his mother and later his wife, and his relationship with women in general. For a woman, the Moon is almost as important as the Sun and the Ascendant. Her element is water, she is cold and moist, she rules Cancer, is in exaltation in Taurus and is in analogy with the stomach. She symbolizes the mother, wife, the crowd, the Moon is associated with birth and childhood. Tradition also matches her with the end of life, after Saturn the old age, it is thus customary to go back to one's place of birth to die: the end of life meets the very beginning. Temperament: Lymphatic Characterology: Emotive, non Active and Primary type or Non-Emotive, non Active and Primary, Nervous or Amorphous type. For more information, see the page dedicated to the Moon. Moon in TaurusOn the day and at the time of your birth, the Moon was in the sign of Taurus. Traditionally, the Moon is in exaltation in this sign: lunar values (quietness, rest, trust) find their complementary landmarks in Taurus... self-defence, need for stability and selectiveness. Your sensuality is strong and expresses itself in all life areas. You equally enjoy the pleasures of the senses and those of the mind and you never waste a single bit of a sensation. You take the time to enjoy life, to dream and to follow your imagination. You do not allow anything to disturb these moments of relaxation and calm. Your basic balance stems from these privileged moments where you can daydream at will and "have your head in the clouds". Nothing bothers you, no external element disrupts the quiet course of your rest. Should anyone dare to break the charm, you become very upset... Moon in House IVThe Moon is in the 4th House. Feeling fine means enjoying at will the privacy of your family cell, your clan, or a protective world. Your intense desire for tranquillity often prompts you to escape the world, and to let your imagination wander without having your well-being disturbed by external issues. Your family, or the few close friends who make up your second family, if any, constitutes the haven which is necessary for your balance. Moon DominantIf the Moon is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Lunarian: the driving force behind your actions is mainly the pursuit of well-being and tranquillity. Your sensitive and romantic self lives on those periods of rest during which you let your imagination wander at will. This is your way of finding inspiration and balance. Nothing is allowed to disturb your feeling of fulfilment and security within a harmonious cell, be it a family or a clan. More than other people, the Lunarian is attached to those moments during which one forgets one's worries and lets oneself cast adrift aimlessly, with no other goal than to be lulled into an ambiance, a situation, or a perfect moment. Many people do not understand such absences and their meaning, which is to regain strength. These people readily describe you with such unflattering terms as apathy and nonchalance. Never mind! Some inspirations require surrendering as well as striking a balance derived from alternate action and passivity. Your qualities are expressed to the fullest in situations which demand familiarity and privacy. Your capacities to respect and blend into your environment is at least as valuable as some other people's aggressive dispositions. However, you are well-advised to avoid indolence and renunciation out of laziness or indifference. Interpretation of the 3° Taurus symbolic degree"A lion angered by a piece of burning wood tries to catch it with its paw, while a sort of fury aimlessly cracks a whip." (Janduz version)Wrathful, demanding, and destructive character. Violence is the cause of many a failure and disappointment in the private and the professional spheres. The family is torn apart by struggles in which rage turned against oneself proves very damaging. This degree sometimes describes an artist or a person who experiences an out of the ordinary situation. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Mercury 18°17' Gemini, in House VI Mercury Aspects Mercury conjunction Pluto orb +6°21' Mercury sextile Saturn orb -0°06' Moon semi-square Mercury orb -0°20' Mercury trine Mars orb -6°37' Mercury trine Midheaven orb +6°38' Mercury opposite Ascendant orb -9°18' Mercury inconjunction Uranus orb -2°35' Mercury represents communication, logical and rational mind, intellectual skills. Earth is its element, it is cold and dry, and it rules Virgo and Gemini, is in exaltation in Virgo and is in analogy with the arms, hands, nervous system. It represents tradesmen, lawyers, messengers; the age of Mercury goes from 8 or 10 years old to about 15.. Temperament: Nervous Characterology: Emotive, non Active and Primary type or Non-Emotive, Active and Primary, Nervous or Sanguine type. For more information, see the page dedicated to Mercury. Mercury in GeminiMercury describes your relations, your communication skills and the way you relate to the external world. However, other astrological elements also influence these areas. The sign Mercury occupies is significant only if Mercury is part of your planetary dominantes. In your chart, Mercury is in Gemini. You need to know everything about the world around you and you probably want to share the results of your observations with everybody. You have a real gift - or desire - to pass on acquisitions and knowledge. Your inquiring mind is the drive behind your frequent discussions and your exchanges. You prefer to increase the number of your centres of interest rather than to lock yourself up in an exaggerate specialization. But don't lose sight of the essential thing: your thirst for knowledge may scatter your capacities. Diversification also has its dangers... However, your open-mindedness spares you the traps of cultural discrimination: everything is worth your interest, in principle. Rejecting a foreigner may deprive you of enriching discoveries or assessments. Your strength lies in your ability to broaden your horizon and to know. Mercury in House VIWith Mercury in the 6th House, communication means above all organising relations, exchanging in order to understand, defining, and identifying the limits of the surrounding environment. Your mediation capacities are highly appreciated. Within the framework of your activities, you have the role of the nervous system, and you coordinate information. Relationship is your favourite mode of integration into your professional life. Mercury DominantIf Mercury is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Mercurian: the tradition points out the importance of communication. From idle but enriching chatters to observation gift, such a dominant endows you with a wide range of expression. Human beings have one thousand facets and one thousand masks they wear according to circumstances and the fortunes of the game of life. You take the role of an observer who is avid for novelties, discoveries, and surprises. Everything catches your attention and becomes an opportunity for new encounters, relationships, and learning. The world amazes you, amuses you sometimes, and stimulates your curiosity. Because the most important thing is to discover, and because you consider that each new situation is packed with potentialities, you try to fill the gaps in your knowledge. Although your open-mindedness may scatter your centres of interest, it also enables you to carefully avoid sticking to only one immutable and rigid view. The slightest sign enables you to perceive the other side of the coin, as well as the infinite complexity of people and of situations. On the human plane, you seek the dialogue and the information without which you know that you are not able to fully grasp the nature of your interlocutor. This keen interest in the Unknown sharpens your inter-relational skills. All these qualities are traditionally associated with Mercury. Interpretation of the 18° Gemini symbolic degree"A wretched man courageously leaves his beautiful mansion behind him. His wife, in a lavish dress, follows him with deep regret and looks back at their former abode." (Janduz version)Unless the natal chart strongly indicates otherwise, this degree heralds that years of prosperity are followed by ruin and destitution. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Venus 1°23' Gemini, in House V Venus Aspects Sun conjunction Venus orb +5°04' Venus square Jupiter orb +3°33' Venus bi-quintile Midheaven orb -0°26' Venus square Mars orb +6°27' Venus semi-square Neptune orb -1°19' Venus represents the way one loves, relationships, sharing, affectivity, seductive ability. For men, she also corresponds to the kind of woman he's attracted to (but not especially in marriage which is more symbolized by the Moon, Venus is the lover and not the wife). Her element is the Air, she is moist, rules Taurus and Libra, is in exaltation in Pisces and is in analogy with the kidneys, the venous system, the bladder, the neck. She represents the artists, tradesmen, occupations linked to beauty and charm; the age of Venus goes from 15 to about 25 years old. Temperament: Sanguine and Lymphatic Characterology: Emotive, non Active and Primary type or Emotive, non Active and Secondary type. For more information, see the page dedicated to Venus. Venus in GeminiVenus describes your affective life. On the day of your birth, she is found in Gemini. Your balance is based on your sensuality. For you, love is a game. Your affective attitudes are very diverse and open to a variety of forms of love. Sensuality is a field for your experiments and a world to explore. Your emotions and your sensitivity allow you to grasp information about the people and the environment around you. Love is your renewed source of amazement. It is not a duel but a discovery, that of the "soul mate" and of total connivance. You are cerebral and harmony between two persons is your main concern. How do they blend their ways of thinking, of living and of loving? How is it possible to achieve fusion and to become an indivisible unit? Your inquiring mind also influences your sentimental life: you look for fantasy and amazement and often, you arouse them in your partner. Your desire for freedom does not get on well with the unavoidable constraints of life together. It is certain that your fantastic affectivity always on the alert charms and amazes your partner. However, your curiosity and your desire for discovery may cause a (irresistible?) need to see something else and to look for fresh air (which does not always mean a new partner, fortunately). Cheers for independence! Venus in House VVenus expresses her characteristics through the 5th House values. The most beautiful work, that which is forever unforgettable, is a work of love. Affectivity is the best means to give a part of yourself. You totally indulge in the heart's attachments, and in sentimental and romantic relationships. You manage to possess the object of your desires, be it a lover, a child, or a work of art. Seduction may be a game, a hunting with hounds, or a love-hunt. Love is an art, and you live for the arts. Venus DominantIf Venus is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Venusian: you are a sensual and emotional person particularly receptive to the natural likes and dislikes aroused by your contact with people. You are prone to frequent instinctive aversions and true passions which are exclusively driven by the feeling of love. The heart has its reasons which Reason knows nothing of... Your balance is based on the richness of your affective life. Without love, the Venusian is resourceless, lost, and deprived of any reason for living. You have an obvious and strong will to charm and to arouse the attachments without which you cannot properly function. Every area of your life is thus marked by your affectivity. The danger is that you may "be taken in" by charm. In such cases, you would prefer to keep your emotions under better control. Thus, hyper-sensitivity has its own inconveniences. Nevertheless, better than anyone else, you know how to play with feelings and attractions. Although you are sometimes caught in the traps of an over sensitive emotionalism, feelings remain your best assets in many circumstances. There is another aspect to the Venusian dominant. According to the Tradition, this planet rules the Arts, and you are endowed with some degree of artistic dispositions, ranging from good to excellent. Interpretation of the 1° Gemini symbolic degree"A man holding a dagger between his teeth climbs a wall with a rope ladder." (Janduz version)Courageous, bold, and honest character. One can achieve success in the magistracy, the military, or the police. One has the strength required to overcome hurdles, and one accomplishes some outstanding feat which is rewarded by honours and a high-level position. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Mars 24°55' Aquarius, in House II Mars Aspects Sun square Mars orb +1°22' Mars trine Midheaven orb -0°01' Mars trine Pluto orb -0°16' Mars sextile Ascendant orb -2°40' Mercury trine Mars orb -6°37' Venus square Mars orb +6°27' Mars represents the desire for action and physical energy, sexuality, strength. For a woman, Mars corresponds to the kind of man she's attracted to (but not especially in marriage which is rather symbolized by the Sun, Mars is the lover, not the husband). Fire is its element, it is hot and dry, and it rules Aries and Scorpio (along with Pluto), is in exaltation with Capricorn and is in analogy with the muscles and the spleen. It represents the soldiers, sportsmen, warriors, surgeons, blacksmiths... ; the age of Mars goes from 42 to 50 years old. Temperament: Bilious Characterology: Emotive, Active, Primary type. It is a Choleric. For more information, see the page dedicated to Mars. Mars in AquariusThe planet Mars indicates how you react to life concrete stimulations. It also describes your fighting spirit, your abilities to stand for yourself and to take action. With Mars in Aquarius, freedom of action is indispensable. Constraints are not part of your reality. You are open to the world, to all types of societies and to human matters in general. You fight for individual freedom and for the respect of all forms of expression. You do not tolerate intolerance! Your struggles involve collective, even universal contexts. Defending great causes is more exciting than coping with daily chores and you handle unforeseen events to the best of your abilities. But should the situation get stuck in a rut, you quickly tire. Your dynamism needs new-ness to show its worth. Your assets lie in your capacity for innovation and your ability to find original solutions to concrete life problems. Mars in House IIWith Mars in the 2nd House, you fight for your interests with fierce energy. One must deserve a capital and work to acquire it. Acquisition is a unique field of experience for developing and highlighting your personal dynamism. To own an object means to make a move towards it and to conquer it. If you are involved in business, your attitudes are marked by the principle of challenge, which is the sign of an aggressive commercial policy. More often than not, the way you manage your assets is risky. Mars DominantIf Mars is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Marsian: in your hand-to-hand struggle for life, you demonstrate an acute and active sense of confrontation with the world, with other people, and with your own destiny. You need to take action and to fight for your projects and your desires. You perceive all situations with deep intensity, and you react to the here and now without bothering to step back in order to ensure that events are under your control. You take up challenges with excessive foolhardiness as a consequence of your impulsiveness. However, better than anyone else, you know how to mobilise your resources in case of crisis. You take action whenever it is necessary to do so, and you are present in a timely manner. With Mars, your attitudes are dictated by the realities of the moment, by your emotions, and by everything which proved to have worked in the past. When this dominant is not well integrated, it may bring about an aggressive or impulsive behaviour. Therefore, you must learn to control your hyper-sensitivity and your fits of temper. You are also endowed with Marsian qualities: the fighting spirit and the taste for duel without which one may find oneself overwhelmed by events. When this willpower is well channelled, its precious energy enables to cope with all sorts of contingencies. There are a thousand ways to win, and a thousand challenges to take up with the enthusiasm and the dynamism which make life so worthy. A certain idea of life which is wild, passionate, and in tune with events. Interpretation of the 24° Aquarius symbolic degree"An infuriated man brandishes a dagger. Behind him, there is an austere building with bars on the windows. A hand keeps the main door ajar." (Janduz version)Violent, vindictive, and passionate character. One is always ready to unleash one's brutal instincts without discriminating between right and wrong. Therefore, serious troubles are to be expected, including imprisonment or committal. The practice of violent and risky sports, or an occupation in the military if the mental state allows, can provide a helpful outlet to pent-up violence. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Jupiter 4°56' Virgo, in House VIII Jupiter Aspects Moon trine Jupiter orb +1°17' Venus square Jupiter orb +3°33' Jupiter sesqui-quadrate Uranus orb +0°57' Jupiter sesqui-quadrate Saturn orb +1°32' Jupiter trine Ascendant orb -7°20' Jupiter represents expansion and power, benevolence, large vision and generosity. Its element is Air, it is hot and moist, and it rules Sagittarius and Pisces (along with Neptune), is in exaltation with Cancer and is in analogy with the hips and endocrinal system. It represents the governors, magistrates, professors, religious men too; the age of Jupiter goes from 50 to 55 or even 70 years old. Temperament: Sanguine Characterology: Emotive, Active, Primary type; it is an extrovert Choleric. Actually the humid version of Mars, inclined to action like him. For more information, see the page dedicated to Jupiter. Jupiter in VirgoThe planet Jupiter symbolizes expansion, broadness and generosity. Jupiter is associated with the functions of synthesis, enthusiasm and optimism. In your natal chart, his house position is more important than his sign position because, like Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, he is a slow planet. Many people born in the same period have Jupiter in the same sign. This is the reason why the sign occupied here is less meaningful than when it is occupied by the so-called fast planets, i.e. the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars. Therefore, some caution is to be exercised as you read what follows. Jupiter in Virgo gives you a talent for work, for practical activities and a higher than average dexterity. You have a strong sense of duty. You are very appreciated in your work environment because you are a perfectionist. The Tradition underlines that all the fields related to health and physical wellbeing are favoured. Jupiter in House VIIIWith Jupiter in the 8th House, you are endowed with great faculties of abnegation, adaptation, and insertion into social life. Whenever the situation demands it, you renounce your interests or your objectives and you blend into the group. This configuration is that of self-sacrifice, symbolic deaths and different rebirths, for the sake of codified and freely accepted morals. Renunciation, self-sacrifice and altruism are qualities you claim as your own. Jupiter DominantIf Jupiter is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Jupiterian: because this planet brings about a keen interest in social and professional success, the Tradition considers it to be beneficial. Indeed, you know how to adjust to events and to jump at the chance when it arises. The members of your entourage gladly entrust you with high responsibilities because they are often impressed by your learning skills and your adaptation abilities as you deal with new structures and new languages. What is the secret of your good star? It is your self-confidence which wins public support. Now, what is the secret of your charm? Definitely, enthusiasm, euphoria, and exaltation. Exaggeration also. When this dominant is well integrated, it is a factor of affluence and optimism, and a certain degree of joviality enables you to easily fit into various spheres. It constitutes your main asset to manage your life. However, you must at times curb your desire for integration, lest your sense of opportunity turns into extreme opportunism. Here also, the key to success lies in a correct estimate of everyone's chances and possibilities. Although management is one of your forte, and you can adjust your objectives to current realities better than other people, you lack the hindsight which enables you to avoid short-term vagaries and daily fluctuations. If you strive too much to adapt, you run a risk of betraying yourself. This is the other traditional side of the coin with "The Greater Benefic"! Interpretation of the 4° Virgo symbolic degree"An eagle is about to take flight while a man wearing boots and a helmet, perhaps a rescue worker, checks his equipment." (Janduz version)Courageous, helpful, and self-disciplined character endowed with sharp intellectual abilities. One is driven by noble instincts and such values as the sense of duty and honour. One demonstrates devotion towards friends and intransigence towards opponents. This degree, one of the few Virgo degrees which is influenced by Mars instead of Mercury, indicates that success and fame are achieved after many a struggle. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Saturn 18°23' Aries, in House III Saturn Aspects Mercury sextile Saturn orb -0°06' Saturn square Uranus orb -2°29' Saturn square Neptune orb -3°20' Saturn opposite Midheaven orb -6°32' Jupiter sesqui-quadrate Saturn orb +1°32' Saturn represents concentration, effort, perseverance, time, the hard reality, inevitable consequences. Earth is its element, it is cold and dry, and it rules Capricorn and Aquarius (along with Uranus), is in exaltation in Libra and is in analogy with the bones (skeleton) and the skin. It represents the grandparents, old people, scientists, knowledgeable men, Saturn corresponds to old age; it goes from 70 years old until death. Temperament: Nervous Characterology: Non-Emotive, Active and Secondary type or Emotive, non Active and Secondary type or sometimes Non-Emotive, non Active and Secondary type; it is a Phlegmatic, a Sentimental or an Empathic type For more information, see the page dedicated to Saturn. Saturn in AriesThe planet Saturn symbolizes contraction, effort, time, limitation and concentration. Saturn eliminates anything that is not authentic, sooner or later. It is impossible to cheat him as he gives an irresistible desire to form a coherent whole with oneself, in responsible and wise ways. He is the great purifier. He represents our limitations but also our truth. In your natal chart, the house position where Saturn is posited is more important than his sign position because, like Jupiter, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, he is a slow planet. Many people born in the same period have Saturn in the same sign. This is the reason why the sign occupied here is less meaningful than when it is occupied by the so-called fast planets, i.e. the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars. Therefore, some caution is to be exercised as you read what follows. Saturn in Aries decreases your impulsiveness, your primary-ness and your spontaneity. But it endows you with more patience, tolerance and reflection in the long run. Saturn in House IIIIn your natal chart, Saturn is in the 3rd House. Learning to communicate is a difficult task for you. Your mode of assimilation is demanding and selective, which excludes simple relationships and fanciful innovations. Before you can accept a person, an idea, or a formula, you need to sift them through your inflexible will, and to understand them. It is probable that you sort out all pieces of information with a serious mind, but also with caution and scepticism. Saturn DominantIf Saturn is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Saturnian: you gladly leave to other people the decision to take life as it comes. As far as you are concerned, you prefer to take advantage of your experiences in order to discover, to grow, and to question yourself. Interpretation of the 18° Aries symbolic degree"In a poor house, an old man in a worn out robe fearfully holds two bags of gold against his chest." (Janduz version)Stingy, misanthropic, and greedy character. One is only interested in increasing one's wealth, through honest or less honest means, and one displays an obsessive attachment to gold. One prefers to live in solitude, estranged from relatives and friends, for fear that they might borrow money. One would be well-advised to change one's behaviour, to indulge in a more comfortable life, and to learn the value of sharing. Otherwise, sooner or later, one will lose one's riches through a natural disaster, war or revolution, or robbery. Indeed, this degree warns against gold hoarding. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Uranus 20°53' Я Capricorn, in House I Uranus Aspects Saturn square Uranus orb -2°29' Sun trine Uranus orb +5°24' Uranus opposite Neptune orb -5°49' Uranus square Midheaven orb -4°03' Jupiter sesqui-quadrate Uranus orb +0°57' Mercury inconjunction Uranus orb -2°35' Uranus represents individual freedom, originality, independence, marginality, avant guard inspiration, ultra modernism. Fire is its element, it is dry, and it rules Aquarius, is in exaltation with Scorpio and is in analogy with the brain and the nerves. It represents inventors, odd characters, revolutionaries. Temperament: Nervous to the extreme Characterology: Emotive, Active, Secondary type; it is a Passionate type. For more information, see the page dedicated to Uranus. Uranus in CapricornThe planet Uranus symbolizes originality, independence and cerebral energy bursting suddenly. Uranus triggers the irresistible need for freedom that we have in ourselves. Uranus tends to break the constraints that have become unbearable and gives us the courage and the will to get rid of what has become a burden; when he is well aspected, he also indicates genius. In your natal chart, Uranus' house position is more important than his sign position because, like Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune and Pluto, he is a slow planet. Many people born in the same period have Uranus in the same sign. This is the reason why the sign occupied here is less meaningful than when it is occupied by the so-called fast planets, i.e. the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars. Therefore, some caution is to be exercised as you read what follows. The sign positions of Uranus, Neptune and Pluto have a collective meaning. They do not influence your personality, unless they are involved in numerous aspects or when they emphasize a personal point of your natal chart such as your Ascendant's ruler, an angular planet, i.e. a planet near the Ascendant, the Midheaven, the Nadir or the Descendant. In such cases, the activity of the slow planet is very highlighted. Uranus in Capricorn increases your detachment from emotions and feelings: paradoxically, coldness blended with exceptional results may give a hectic career and propel you to very high-level positions. Uranus in House IWith Uranus in the 1st House, it is most likely that the first event in your life relates to a lightning bolt, a liberating shout, or a revolution. You keep your adamant will to surprise other people and to follow your beliefs through the bitter end. What you find fascinating in a discovery or an encounter is its unexpected, innovative, and sometimes extreme nature. There is some degree of (mild) fanaticism in your personality. Your first reaction is a definitive yes or a final no. Uranus DominantIf Uranus is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Uranian: personal values are prevailing. Inner certainties fuel an inflexible will and a desire to call attention on yourself as well as to follow your beliefs through. This planet prompts you to behave with determination, to put forward your own truth, and to start your personal revolution. More than other people, you are willing to keep some degree of autonomy in all circumstances, and you often display an individualistic nature. In order to achieve your ideal of freedom and independence, you may act like a despot as you try to convince and to impose your views, whether smoothly or forcefully. Regardless of the flexibility of your comportment, some situations demand an absolute firmness as well as uncompromising, frank and straightforward attitudes. People may criticise you for your intransigence and say that you are a hardliner. Outsider's opinions don't matter! The most important thing is that you act in all conscience and reach your primary objectives. More than anyone else, you know how to use your willpower and to focus your energy on a precise aim, relentlessly, whatever the consequences might be. In the chapter of qualities, let's mention a definite sense of responsibility, an innovative mind open to techniques and modern ideas, as well as a natural self-discipline which overcomes many an obstacle. Therefore, people are well-advised not to hound you into a corner. Interpretation of the 20° Capricorn symbolic degree"In the study of a scholar, a book covered with hieroglyphic writing is open on a lectern. On the nearby desk, there are a globe, a retort, and a crucible." (Janduz version)Industrious, mystic, and quiet character endowed with an excellent memory and great intellectual capacities. Success and fame can be achieved in literature, linguistics, science, philosophy, or occultism. This degree indicates deep interests in religion, human sciences, eastern civilisations, and alchemy. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Neptune 15°03' Cancer, in House VII Neptune Aspects Uranus opposite Neptune orb -5°49' Saturn square Neptune orb -3°20' Moon quintile Neptune orb -0°35' Venus semi-square Neptune orb -1°19' Neptune represents escapism, impressionability, daydreaming, delusions, carelessness, deception or intuition, dishonesty or inspiration, telepathy. Water is its element, it is moist, it rules Pisces, is in exaltation in Cancer, though some authors say it is Leo, and is in analogy with the vegetative system. It represents dreamers, mediums, magicians, merchants of illusion, drug addicts. Temperament: rather Lymphatic Characterology: Emotive, non Active, Primary or Secondary type; it is a Sentimental, or sometimes Amorphous type. For more information, see the page dedicated to Neptune. Neptune in CancerThe planet Neptune symbolizes extreme receptivity, intense emotional sharpness, impressionability and inspiration; it is the planet of mediums, mystics and religious faith. In an astrological chart, it indicates dilution, vagueness, understanding one's environment through emotions and the absence of clear and determined limits and structures. In your natal chart, Neptune's house position is more important than his sign position because, like Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Pluto, he is a slow planet. Many people born in the same period have Neptune in the same sign. This is the reason why the sign occupied here is less meaningful than when it is occupied by the so-called fast planets, i.e. the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars. Therefore, some caution is to be exercised as you read what follows. The sign positions of Uranus, Neptune and Pluto have a collective meaning. They do not influence your personality, unless they are involved in numerous aspects or when they emphasize a personal point of your natal chart such as your Ascendant's ruler, an angular planet, i.e. a planet near the Ascendant, the Midheaven, the Nadir or the Descendant. In such cases, the activity of the slow planet is very highlighted. Neptune in Cancer increases tenfold your emotionalism and your natural nostalgia. Your musings are huge and fruitful. You are inspired and supported by your feelings. Your inner life is splendid. Neptune in House VIIWith Neptune in the 7th House, your social life is subtle and vague, and follows an underlying and imperceptible, yet inflexible, logic. You are unable to figure out why you feel in tune with such or such person, whereas with another person, you just cannot relate. A glance, or a move, is all is needed in order to establish the contact... or prevent it. Life is made of subtleties which reason knows nothing of. The partner is a mirror, and sometimes, a distorting mirror. Neptune DominantIf Neptune is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Neptunian: your intuition is highly developed. You are of a contemplative nature, and you are particularly receptive to ambiances, places, and people. You gladly cultivate the art of letting-go, and you allow the natural unfolding of events to construct your world. You follow your inspirations, for better or for worse. At times, you display an extraordinary clairvoyance gift. You seem to be able to read your subconscious like a book, and you track down subtle underlying mechanisms, flaws, or open breaches. This innate intuition might explain the strokes of good luck which the Neptunian is sometimes credited with. However, you may also be the victim of illusions and misleading intuitions. You are an idealist, and you let your deepest aspirations prevail over the realities of the moment. Then, you set off in quest of some quixotic objective, living like a Don Quixote who relentlessly pursues an impossible dream. You have a great talent for psychology and the mysteries of the human soul. Since you instinctively perceive people's intents and motivations, as you swim in the complexity of human nature, you feel in your element. The subtlety of your perceptiveness is the source of both special affections and irrevocable rejections. What is the danger of such a dominant? If it is not offset by other influences in your natal chart, you may not have an iron will. Your trump card is your instinct, which may be developed to the extent that it becomes clairvoyance. Interpretation of the 15° Cancer symbolic degree"A man who could be Samson pulls down the pillars of the Temple, a dead lion at his feet. A few steps below, a hedgehog rests its paw on a dead snake." (Janduz version)Noble, righteous, and helpful character. Ordeals and obstacles are numerous and varied, but easily overcome. However, gentle manners must not to be mistaken for weakness because one is endowed with great physical, intellectual, and moral strength. People would be well-advised not to try and pick a quarrel with this person. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. Pluto 24°38' Gemini, in House VI Pluto Aspects Pluto opposite Ascendant orb -2°56' Mercury conjunction Pluto orb +6°21' Mars trine Pluto orb -0°16' Pluto trine Midheaven orb +0°17' Sun semi-sextile Pluto orb -1°39' Pluto represents deep transformations, mutations and eliminations, sexuality and magnetism, power and secrets, destruction with a view to regeneration, the phoenix rising from the ashes. Its element is indefinite; burning (like lava in fusion ?), it rules Scorpio, is in exaltation in Pisces and is in analogy with the sexual organs and excretion. It represents dictators, sadistic people, violent characters, is instinctive and powerful but also mysterious with hidden strengths. Temperament: rather Bilious Characterology: Emotive or non-Emotive, Active, Primary type; it is a Passionate Choleric type. For more information, see the page dedicated to Pluto. Pluto in GeminiThe planet Pluto symbolizes deep disruptions and upheavals, domination and sexual instincts, and the inner power we have in ourselves. Pluto destroys in order to reconstruct and he provokes painful crises that are needed in metamorphosis. Pluto is our deepest instincts' brutal force. It is the hidden and unconscious violence that can explode in us with incredible intensity before being projected in our actions; in itself, the planet is not negative: the might and the intensity of its energy are beyond the conceivable but it can be funnelled. Pluto is the only possibility we have at our disposal to overcome our inner blocks and to eliminate outgrown situations that have become inextricable. Pluto's energy is valuable because of its usefulness for the irreversible destruction of what constitutes a problem and not because of its negative side and its perversity. Pluto allows to reconstruct and to regenerate parts of our personality or whole stretches of our life, provided that we manage to funnel his wild energy and to step back. It is impossible to tame this energy, given its essence. However, it is possible to take advantage of it for a precise aim, through a temporary identification of some parts of us with this energy. In such a case, the outcome is our final evolution and even, our transformation. In your natal chart, Pluto's house position is more important than his sign position because, like Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, Pluto is a slow planet. Many people born in the same period have Pluto in the same sign. This is the reason why the sign occupied here is less meaningful than when it is occupied by the so-called fast planets, i.e. the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars. Therefore, some caution is to be exercised as you read what follows. The sign positions of Uranus, Neptune and Pluto have a collective meaning. They do not influence your personality and they are not to be really taken into account, unless they are involved in numerous aspects or when they emphasize a personal point of your natal chart such as your Ascendant's ruler, an angular planet, i.e. a planet near the Ascendant, the Midheaven, the Nadir or the Descendant. In such cases, the activity of the slow planet is very highlighted. Pluto in Gemini may give your communication a caustic and domineering style. Pluto in House VIWith Pluto in the 6th House, the art of manipulations is your signature. Pluto is the planet of distance and underground worlds. On the contrary, the 6th House deals with defined social functions and identified fields of action. Therefore, your social role is ambiguous and paradoxical, to say the least. It is most likely that, as far as the professional plane is concerned, your manner is disconcerting, and your obscure and hidden function is efficient precisely because it is insidious and concealed. Pluto DominantIf Pluto is part of your natal chart's planetary dominants, in astrology, you are said to be a Plutonian: you sometimes feel like a foreigner who does not belong to the world, to its laws, and its concerns. The rules of life in society are not necessarily yours. You are interested in what is unknown and in the subtle laws of a hidden order. So, you take malicious pleasure in ridiculing the patterns you find too simplistic or too rigid. You also revel in underlining the limits of explanations you deem too common. There is something unconventional about the way you are, the way you think, and the way you act. What is your specificity made of? Is it an extraordinary partner? A life off the beaten path? Or do you only distance yourself from conventional morals? In any case, you have the feeling, sometimes quite vague, that you come from nowhere, and that you do not belong to any definite group... In short, it means that you cannot be simplified in order to conform to existing models. The gap between you and ordinary mortals is also an element of your strength. Your deep clear-sightedness, firstly, enables you to put things into perspective and to grant them only the attention they deserve. Your other remarkable asset is your capacity to intervene from behind the scenes, to secretly organise events, and to bring about the desirable outcome without seeming to impose or to dictate anything. However, you must still overcome one of the major difficulties of this dominant, which is to get people to accept your difference and to smoothly fit into your environment. Interpretation of the 24° Gemini symbolic degree"Surrounded by his favourite books, a middle-aged man reads and ponders at his desk." (Janduz version)Withdrawn, studious, and generous character endowed with exceptional intellectual capacities and vivid imagination. One is attracted to spirituality and research and pays little attention to worldly riches. Success can be achieved in ancient and modern science, literature, or education. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. If you wish, you can receive immediately in your mailbox your detailed astrological portrait, a nice gift for yourself or for your close friends and relatives, who will deeply appreciate it. %DYNAMIQUE_22% Chiron is almost renowned and used everywhere. Most astrologers consider it as a kind of "mediator" between Saturn and outer planets. Consequently, Chiron is of Saturn's nature and at the same time is influenced by Uranus, the first slow-moving planet. Astrologically, it symbolizes wisdom, patience and the faculty to reduce others' sufferings: it is said to be the "great healer" of the zodiac. Like all the secondary bodies, it must be in close conjunction with planets or angles in order to fully express its action. %TEXTES_22% %DYNAMIQUE_23% Ceres, the biggest of the four minor asteroids used besides Chiron, is associated with the mythological goddess of growing plants and harvest and also symbolizes physical constitution, vitality and fertility. She's also known as Demeter, according to the astrologer Zipporah Dobyns, linked to the symbolism of the mother but in a less emotive and more physical way than the Moon. Ceres is thought to be the ruler of Virgo, in exaltation in Gemini, in exile in Pisces and in fall in Sagittarius. Keywords associated with Ceres could be order, practical sense, worry, precision, modesty, method, sobriety, motherhood, fertility, the Earth: a kind of a more cerebral Moon... %TEXTES_23% %DYNAMIQUE_24% Pallas is sometimes used in modern Astrology: she represents intelligence, abstract and global thinking talents. It is usually considered to be a determining element in political strategy. %TEXTES_24% %DYNAMIQUE_25% Juno is the asteroid corresponding to the adaptation to the marital partner and to the defence of individual rights; it is thus used in the field of marriage. %TEXTES_25% %DYNAMIQUE_26% Vesta is rarely used and brings the ability to efficiently devote oneself to a cause. %TEXTES_26% True North Node 16°42' Я Gemini, in House VI The North Node (True Node here) represents the goals that must be achieved during life, in the karmic sense according to some traditions. Its position in house indicates in what field an effort is necessary in order to evolve. The North Node is often called the Dragon's head, it is usually considered beneficial, a bit like Jupiter with the planets. The Lunar nodes are fictional points and not actual heavenly bodies: they are the intersections of the Moon with the Ecliptic (the path made by the Sun in its orbit as seen from the Earth). The axis of the Lunar nodes moves 19 degrees each year, namely a bit more than three minutes each day. The South Node is diametrically opposed to the North Node, therefore it faces it (it's not drawn here, it's the same symbol but upside down). It symbolizes what has already been achieved or acquired, in a karmic sense: it's the past from which it's advised to move on in order to progress. The South Node is rather negative, of a Saturnian nature: the experience through suffering. Interpretation of the 16° Gemini symbolic degree"A man stretches his arms, which have no hands, towards a table dressed with beautiful fruits and nice books. At his feet, is a broken pitcher with its wasted water." (Janduz version)This degree is a bad omen. One becomes a burden for one's family, following an accident caused by someone else's carelessness, for instance a hit-and-run drunken driver, or violent external events such as a war injury or a bomb attack. As always, the natal chart must be analysed. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. True Lilith 17°19' Я Libra, in House IX Lilith or the Dark Moon (True Lilith here) represents the uncrossable threshold, taboos, the individual's provocative and fascinating side, including on a sexual level. She symbolizes violence and "untameability", the radical and deep-seated refusal to submit. The keywords for Lilith can be sterility, sadism, perversity, castration, sadomasochism, eroticism, orgasm, forbidden fantasies, marginality, cruelty; redemption, illumination, rebelliousness... Lilith's opposite point is called Priapus; it is the Lunar perigee, the position where the Moon is closest to the Earth. It symbolizes man's primitive nature, the horror hidden in our deepest self; masochism, extreme sensuality, impulsiveness, irrationality and excess. Physically speaking, the Dark Moon is the focal point unoccupied by the Earth: it is not a concrete body but a mathematical point. Interpretation of the 17° Libra symbolic degree"A nice house with its door and windows wide open." (Janduz version)Quiet, hospitable, and endearing character always willing to help. One comes from a wealthy family, or one earns a fortune without great efforts. This degree describes a peace-loving person who acts as a mediator and takes it to heart to solve conflicts and alleviate deprived people's hardship. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. Fortune 20°15' Capricorn, in House I The Part of Fortune is an ancient concept, used by Ptolemy and other astrologers before him. Firstly, it has nothing to do with fortune! In modern astrology, it is actually used to enhance a planet or angle when in close conjunction with it: it thus amplifies the meaning associated to the point affected by its presence. It is calculated in the following way: Part of Fortune = AS + Moon - Sun (it is the Moons position when the Sun rises) The classical Part of Fortune, of which the calculus method is unchanged whether in a diurnal or nocturnal chart, is usually distinguished from the diurnal/nocturnal Part of Fortune which is calculated by the formula AS + Sun - Moon for a nocturnal chart, and AS + Moon - Sun in a diurnal chart. We currently use the latter formula for our astrological programmes. For more information, see the page dedicated to the Arabian parts. Interpretation of the 20° Capricorn symbolic degree"In the study of a scholar, a book covered with hieroglyphic writing is open on a lectern. On the nearby desk, there are a globe, a retort, and a crucible." (Janduz version)Industrious, mystic, and quiet character endowed with an excellent memory and great intellectual capacities. Success and fame can be achieved in literature, linguistics, science, philosophy, or occultism. This degree indicates deep interests in religion, human sciences, eastern civilisations, and alchemy. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. Ascendant 27°35' Sagittarius Ascendant Aspects Pluto opposite Ascendant orb -2°56' Sun inconjunction Ascendant orb -1°17' Moon trine Ascendant orb +6°02' Mars sextile Ascendant orb -2°40' Mercury opposite Ascendant orb -9°18' Jupiter trine Ascendant orb -7°20' The First House or Ascendant represents one's behaviour in the eyes of others, and also one's health. It corresponds to the way the individual acts in the world. It is the image of the personality seen by others and the person's visible behaviour expressed outwardly. The 1st House is in analogy with Aries and thus Mars too, and then the Sun. It is an angular house, the most important one with the Midheaven, maybe even more so due to its link with the body and health. Ascendant in SagittariusYour psychological nature is extroverted and independent, oriented towards expansion and sociability. You have the soul of a leader, energetic and active. Your charisma and your drive are fully integrated in the collective life. Indeed, as an action-oriented fire sign, you challenge yourself and succeed in accomplishing the task straight away. Sagittarius is hard to follow because his spirit and his independent mind constantly lead him to go further and higher. Interpretation of the 27° Sagittarius symbolic degree"A turtle follows a man riding a camel." (Janduz version)Valiant, determined, and hard-working character. One is not afraid of responsibilities, no matter how gruelling the task might seem. One fulfils one's duties calmly, slowly, and steadily, and progresses smoothly under the protection of a powerful friend or boss. One enjoys the recognition of peers and achieves a decent fortune. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. Midheaven 24°56' Libra Midheaven Aspects Mars trine Midheaven orb -0°01' Pluto trine Midheaven orb +0°17' Uranus square Midheaven orb -4°03' Sun inconjunction Midheaven orb -1°21' Saturn opposite Midheaven orb -6°32' Mercury trine Midheaven orb +6°38' Venus bi-quintile Midheaven orb -0°26' Moon opposite Midheaven orb -8°42' The Tenth House still called the Midheaven, is the highest point amidst the houses, at the top of the chart, in the South, and relates to destiny in general and career (and not daily work as meant by the Sixth House). The Midheaven represents our achievements and goals in the social sphere, our social position in society, and becomes more and more important as we get older. It is in analogy with Capricorn and Saturn. The Tenth House is the most important angular house along with the Ascendant. Midheaven in LibraYou are not too interested in material subjects. Your destiny is mainly associated to your encounters and of course, to your marriage more particularly. Indeed, your sign is in analogy with the 7th House, which symbolises partnerships of all sorts, and it is in such a framework that your destiny is most likely to experience a major turning point. Interpretation of the 24° Libra symbolic degree"The sun shines bright on a flowery promontory where a peacock spreads its tail." (Janduz version)Ambitious, proud, and frivolous character. Success and wealth are achieved owing to one's good-looking features and sex-appeal. However, if the natal chart indicates strong moral and intellectual qualities, thanks to a devoted mentor, and although one never asked for it, one achieves considerable success and prosperity and remains simple and nice. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. Ascendant 27°35' Sagittarius The First House or Ascendant represents one's behaviour in the eyes of others and also one's health. It corresponds to the way the individual acts in the world. It is the image of the personality as seen by others and the person's visible behaviour expressed outwardly. The 1st House is in analogy with Aries and thus Mars too and then the Sun. It is an angular house, the most important one with the Midheaven, maybe even more so due to its link with the body and health; the Ascendant is as important as the Sun in a natal chart. Interpretation of the 27° Sagittarius symbolic degree"A turtle follows a man riding a camel." (Janduz version)Valiant, determined, and hard-working character. One is not afraid of responsibilities, no matter how gruelling the task might seem. One fulfils one's duties calmly, slowly, and steadily, and progresses smoothly under the protection of a powerful friend or boss. One enjoys the recognition of peers and achieves a decent fortune. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. House II 7°45' Aquarius The Second House is the sphere of material security, the money we earn, our possessions, also in a symbolic meaning (close people etc). It is in analogy with Taurus and Venus. It is a succedent house, quite important. House III 21°13' Pisces The Third House is the sphere of social and intellectual apprenticeship, studies, relationships with close people and surroundings, short trips, light-hearted and quick contacts, correspondences. It is in analogy with Gemini and Mercury. It's a cadent house, less important than the angular and succedent ones. House IV 24°56' Aries The Fourth House also called Immum Coeli is the sphere of inner emotions, family, the father, home and roots, but also the home one creates. It's Home Sweet Home, security and cocoon. It is in analogy with Cancer and the Moon. It's an angular and important house. Interpretation of the 24° Aries symbolic degree"A strong man easily controls the stubborn horse he rides and scornfully looks at a small, bushy-haired and panic-stricken man who strives not to be unseated by the ram he rides." (Janduz version)Domineering, careful, and trustworthy character. One has the capacity to fight against all kinds of opponents. However, one must understand that people are entitled to have different opinions and lifestyles, and that they must be respected. Otherwise, one may spark off relentless resistance, serious ordeals, and unnecessary troubles, in both the private and the public spheres. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. House V 19°23' Taurus The Fifth House is the sphere of pleasures and love affairs (but not commitment or marriage), creations and entertainments, children, arts and game. It is in analogy with Leo and the Sun. It's a succedent and quite important house. House VI 9°02' Gemini The Sixth House is the sphere of apprenticeship and effort in the work environment, daily life, health on a daily basis and not operations or long-term diseases, relationships with co-workers or subordinates, desire for improvement, analysis and detail. It is in analogy with Virgo and Mercury. It is a cadent house, less important than the angular and succedent ones. House VII 27°35' Gemini The Seventh House also called the Descendant (in front of the Ascendant) is the sphere of partnership, marriage, contracts, relationships with others, the outer world. It is in analogy with Libra and Venus, and Saturn to a lesser extent. It is an angular and important house. Interpretation of the 27° Gemini symbolic degree"A man plants seeds in a well-ploughed field." (Janduz version)Generous, cheerful, and hard-working character. One enjoys an excellent health and a happy life amid a large family and a host of friends. Success can be achieved in animal husbandry, or the exploitation of land, mineral, etc., as well as in arboriculture and botany. Careers in science, philosophy, religion, and the arts are also very favoured. This degree brings about fertility in all areas, including in the family with the birth of twins. If in the natal chart, this degree is in conjunction with the Midheaven and Jupiter, it promises honours and big wealth. With the Sun, the Moon or the Part of Fortune, unforeseen windfalls and legacies can be expected. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. House VIII 7°45' Leo The Eighth House is the sphere of emotional security, the depths of the self, secrets and paranormal, transcendence, sexuality, mysteries, upheavals, surgical operations, others' money (investments, inheritances), crises, transformation after evolution, death. It is in analogy with Scorpio and Pluto, and Mars to a lesser extent. It is a succedent and quite important house. House IX 21°13' Virgo The Ninth House is the sphere of high studies, both physical and mental journeys (philosophy, spirituality), rebelliousness, changes of scenery, desire for dealing with the unknown. It is in analogy with Sagittarius and Jupiter. It is a cadent house, less important than the angular and succedent ones. Midheaven 24°56' Libra The Tenth House still called the Midheaven, is the highest point amidst the houses, at the top of the chart, in the South, and relates to destiny in general and career (and not daily work as meant by the Sixth House). The Midheaven represents our achievements and goals in the social sphere, our social position in society, and becomes more and more important as we get older. It is in analogy with Capricorn and Saturn. The Tenth House is the most important angular house along with the Ascendant. Interpretation of the 24° Libra symbolic degree"The sun shines bright on a flowery promontory where a peacock spreads its tail." (Janduz version)Ambitious, proud, and frivolous character. Success and wealth are achieved owing to one's good-looking features and sex-appeal. However, if the natal chart indicates strong moral and intellectual qualities, thanks to a devoted mentor, and although one never asked for it, one achieves considerable success and prosperity and remains simple and nice. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. House XI 19°23' Scorpio The Eleventh House is the sphere of friendship and protection, projects, search for social acceptance and security, collective and humanitarian actions. It is in analogy with Aquarius and Uranus, and Saturn to a lesser extent. It's a succedent and quite important house. House XII 9°02' Sagittarius The Twelfth House is the sphere of hidden things, enemies, closed or remote places (hospital, prison, convent etc.), ordeals, secrecy, solitude, long-term illnesses but also sincere devotion and genuine compassion. It is in analogy with Pisces and Neptune. Vertex 9°28' Leo, in House VIII The Vertex, sometimes called counter-Ascendant, is a fictitious point which is at the intersection of two great circles, the Ecliptic and the great vertical circle (Prime Vertical) in the West of the birthplace, linking the East, the Zenith, the West, and the Nadir. It is always located in the West of the chart around the Descendant. It is the chart's fifth angle, so to speak, less important than the other angles. Its interpretation is controversial, because certain astrologers pay no attention to it. The Vertex is sometimes considered to be the second Descendant because, like the latter, it is related to communication and exchanges. It has to do with associations and fated encounters, those that are not chosen, and reveals the type of sensitivity and reactivity we have in our dealings with other people: a refined and tolerant way in Libra, straightforward and spontaneous in Aries, etc. Interpretation of the 9° Leo symbolic degree"A skeleton hangs at the branch of a storm-stricken oak." (Janduz version)Fundamentally courageous and altruistic character, though short-tempered and melancholic. One readily works to help other people, even though one knows that no profit is to be expected in return. Indeed, one believes that inner riches and spiritual advancement are invaluable. Skin and fur trade is very favoured. This degree indicates that physical dangers come from transportation and sport. Hunting is strongly advised against. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. East Point 21°22' Capricorn, in House I The East Point is a fictitious point at the intersection of two great circles, the Ecliptic and the great vertical circle (Prime Vertical) in the East of the birthplace, linking the East, the Zenith, the West, and the Nadir. It is always located in the East of the chart, around the Ascendant. The East Point is sometimes considered to be a second Ascendant, less important, but also related to how one is seen by other people, and to how one expresses one's personality. Interpretation of the 21° Capricorn symbolic degree"Amid a lush landscape, a man works in his field with a plough pulled by a pair of oxen." (Janduz version)Hard-working, persistent, and realistic character endowed with intellectual and physical strength. Whether one is a self-made person or an heir, hard work enables to overcome any hurdle and brings about happiness and prosperity. All careers in agriculture, exploitation of the soil, forestry, or botany are very favoured. N.B.: symbolic degrees belong to a branch of fatalistic astrology. Their interpretation must be regarded with the utmost caution, especially given the fact that different authors give different meanings to symbolic degrees. This is the reason why they are not included in our Astrotheme reports. %DYNAMIQUE_46% Cupido is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Cupido, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. On the upside, Cupido is related to socialisation, the arts, and marital life. On the downside, it indicates vanity, addiction to pleasures, and being strongly influenced by groups of people. %TEXTES_46% %DYNAMIQUE_47% Hades is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Hades, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Hades corresponds to intellectual rigour, service rendered to people, the purpose of being useful. On the downside; it leads to carelessness, indifference, apathy, and mess. %TEXTES_47% %DYNAMIQUE_48% Zeus is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Zeus, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Zeus is related to creativity, as well as to organisational and leadership capacities. On the downside, it may lead to aggressiveness and to excessive militancy. %TEXTES_48% %DYNAMIQUE_49% Kronos is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Kronos, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Kronos is related to authority and cleverness. In tough aspect, it may make the person conceited, presumptuous, or elitist. %TEXTES_49% %DYNAMIQUE_50% Apollon is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Apollon, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Apollon is related to the ability to synthesise, as well as to broad-mindedness, and fame. In difficult aspect, it may bring about superficiality or extravagance. %TEXTES_50% %DYNAMIQUE_51% Admetos is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Admetos, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Admetos is related to the deepness of the mind, asceticism, simplicity, and analytical mind. In tough aspect, it may make the person nit-picking, inflexible, and narrow-minded. %TEXTES_51% %DYNAMIQUE_52% Vulcanus is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Vulcanus, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Vulcanus, sometimes said to be the higher octave of Saturn, provides strength to improve collective relations, to structure things, to be efficient, and to get straight to the point. On the downside, he may bring about arrogance and scattered efforts. %TEXTES_52% %DYNAMIQUE_53% Poseidon is a hypothetical trans-Neptunian planet, the existence of which is not proven. It was invented by Alfred Witte, founder of the famous Hamburg School, and by his student, Friedrich Sieggrün. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Poseidon, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Poseidon brings about wisdom, a clear mind, and sometimes spirituality. On the downside, it may make the person dogmatic, manipulative, or out of touch with reality. %TEXTES_53% %DYNAMIQUE_54% Proserpina, sometimes referred to as Persephone, is a trans-Plutonian hypothetical planet. N.B.: numerous astrologers believe neither in the influence of Proserpina, nor in that of all hypothetical planets, asteroids, Arabic parts or other fictitious points. Proserpina is related to mysteries, revival and reconstruction, as well as cycles. She enriches the unconscious, and gives the possibility to combine modern life with spirituality, the East with the West, and mysticism with concrete life. %TEXTES_54% * A planet less than 1° from the next House cusp is considered to be posited in the said House. 2° when the AS and the MC are involved Planetary Positions and Aspects of Giulio Carlo ArganPositions of Planets Planets in Houses* * In keeping with the common practice, we consider that a planet posited within 1 degree of the next house belongs to that house. We allow an orb of 2 degrees for the ASC and the MC. Positions of Houses List of Planetary Aspects Biography of Giulio Carlo Argan (excerpt)Giulio Carlo Argan (May 17, 1909, Turin - November 11, 1992, Rome) was an Italian art historian, author, and politician. He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. Astrological Profile of Giulio Carlo Argan (Filtered Excerpt)Disclaimer: these short excerpts of astrological charts are computer processed. They are, by no means, of a personal nature. This principle is valid for the 76 457 celebrities included in our database. These texts provide the meanings of planets, or combination of planets, in signs and in houses, as well as the interpretations of planetary dominants in line with modern Western astrology rules. Moreover, since Astrotheme is not a polemic website, no negative aspect which may damage the good reputation of a celebrity is posted here, unlike in the comprehensive astrological portrait. IntroductionHere are some character traits from Giulio Carlo Argan's birth chart. This description is far from being comprehensive but it can shed light on his/her personality, which is still interesting for professional astrologers or astrology lovers. In a matter of minutes, you can get at your email address your astrological portrait (approximately 32 pages), a much more comprehensive report than this portrait of Giulio Carlo Argan. Astrological Dominants of Giulio Carlo ArganThis section presents the main astrological dominants in Giulio Carlo Argan's birth chart. When the time of birth is unknown, four dominant factors are displayed: elements (Fire, Earth, Air, Water), modalities or modes (Cardinal, Fixed, Mutable), dominant planets, and dominant signs. If the birth time is known, three additional dominants are included: dominant houses, house accentuations (angular, succedent, cadent), and quadrant distribution, which offers insight into psychological orientation and behavioral tendencies. These astrological dominants form a kind of background tone a first impression of temperament and chart structure. They provide useful context ahead of the more detailed interpretation based on planetary positions by sign, house, aspect, and dignity. Astrological Quadrants for Giulio Carlo ArganEach quadrant is a combination of the four hemispheres of your birth chart and relates to a character typology. The Southern hemisphere the top of your chart, around the Midheaven is associated with extraversion, action, and public life, whereas the Northern hemisphere prompts to introversion, reflexion, and private life. The Eastern hemisphere the left part, around the Ascendant is linked to your ego and your willpower, whereas the Western hemisphere indicates how other people influence you, and how flexible you are when you make a decision. Giulio Carlo Argan, the nocturnal North-western quadrant, consisting of the 4th, 5th and 6th houses, prevails in your chart: this sector favours creativity, conception and some sort of specialization or training, with helpfulness and relations as strong components. You need others' cooperation in order to work properly, although you are not very expansive: creating, innovating and thinking are what matter most to you because this self-expression enriches you and totally satisfies you. Elements, Modes and House Accentuations for Giulio Carlo ArganGiulio Carlo Argan, here are the graphs of your Elements and Modes, based on planets' position and angles in the twelve signs: Cheers for communication and mobility, Giulio Carlo Argan! The predominance of Air signs in your chart favours and amplifies your taste for relations and for all kinds of short trips, whether real (travels) or symbolic (new ideas, mind speculations). You gain in flexibility and adaptability what you lose in self-assertion or in pragmatism. Like the majority of Earth signs, Giulio Carlo Argan, you are efficient, concrete and not too emotional. What matters to you is what you see: you judge the tree by its fruits. Your ideas keep changing, words disappear, but actions and their consequences are visible and remain. Express your sensitivity, even if it means revealing your vulnerability. Emotions, energy and communication must not be neglected; concrete action is meaningless if it is not justified by your heart, your intellect or your enthusiasm. Your natal chart shows a lack of the Water element, with only 2.39% instead of the average 25%. Whether you are aware of it or not, affective values bring about problems, for you or your close friends. In general, a lack of Water does not necessarily mean that you are unable to love as much as others do. However, you may find it difficult to express the deepness of your heart and of your feelings. In the best cases, you come to terms with it, you adjust, you manage to show more affection or, why not, you pretend to be really affected! In the worst cases, you get into the terrible habit of repressing these essential values and you tend to forget that they are the basis of the richest and strongest bonds between human beings. The twelve zodiacal signs are split up into three groups or modes, called quadruplicities, a learned word meaning only that these three groups include four signs. The Cardinal, Fixed and Mutable modes are more or less represented in your natal chart, depending on planets' positions and importance, and on angles in the twelve signs. The Mutable mode is the most emphasized one in your natal chart, Giulio Carlo Argan, which indicates a mobile character that is curious and thirsty for new experiences and evolution. You are lively and flexible, and you like to react quickly to solicitations, but don't confuse mobility with agitation, since this is the danger with this configuration - and with you, stagnation is out of the question. Security doesn't matter as long as you are not bored. You optimize, you change things, you change yourself... all this in a speedy way. Houses are split up into three groups: angular, succedent and cadent. The first ones are the most important ones, the most "noticeable" and energetic houses. They are the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th houses. Their cuspides correspond to four famous angles: Ascendant for the 1st house, Imum Coeli for the 4th house, Descendant, opposite the Ascendant, for the 7th house and Midheaven for the 10th house, opposite the Imum Coeli. Planets are evaluated according to a whole set of criteria that includes comprehensive Western astrology rules. At their turn, planets emphasize specific types of houses, signs, repartitions etc., as previously explained. The emphasis is on succedent houses in your chart, namely, the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th houses, Giulio Carlo Argan: this configuration usually endows a personality with affective and sensitive qualities. Obviously, to the detriment of self-confidence or self-assertion, but your heart qualities may be very important. These houses also favour realization. Time and patience are part of their characteristics. However, they are only indications and you must include them in the rest of your chart in order to see whether they are validated or not! Note: this dominant is a minor one. Dominants: Planets, Signs and Houses for Giulio Carlo ArganIn astrology, planets symbolize core drives, signs shape how they express themselves, and houses show where they manifest in life. A dominant planet points to a strong inner dynamic, a dominant sign reflects prevailing temperament, and a dominant house highlights key life priorities. This triad or duo when the birth time is unknown offers a broad overview of personality before deeper interpretation through aspects and dignities. It serves as a prelude to more detailed chart analysis. In your natal chart, Giulio Carlo Argan, the ten main planets are distributed as follows: The three most important planets in your chart are Mercury, Pluto and Jupiter. With Mercury among your dominant planets, you are certainly cerebral, nervous, swift, curious, quick-witted, and you love to communicate. Your psychological pattern is intellectual, all the more so since Mercury is important, with its whole set of assets but also of weaknesses, obviously. Your sensitivity, emotions, and heart's impulses give precedence to thinking, which can lead people to believe that you are a playful and witty but heartless person, intellectualizing situations and juggling with words and numbers whilst ignoring human aspects of things. Of course, it is said that cats always land on their feet - this is your Mercurian strength and your trump card! Your weakness lies in your nervousness, and you may miss your goal because of your "over-intellectualization" that may be detrimental to other kind of energies such as instinct, spontaneity, heart, sensitivity, etc. With Pluto as a dominant planet in your chart, you are a magnetic and mighty predator, like the Scorpio sign ruled by this planet, who needs to exert pressure on others in order to "test" them. You are always ready to evolve, to risk destruction for reconstruction - including your own - to live more intensely whilst imposing your secret authority on things and on people you encounter. You may come across as wicked, cruel or too authoritarian, but actually you only follow your instinct, you sound people out, and you like to exert your domination simply because your vital energy is too powerful to remain inside. You are inclined to be passionate, with hidden motivations. You are sometimes misunderstood but one of your great Plutonian assets is to go successfully through each life ordeal with ever growing strength. Jupiter, the planet of expansion, organization, power and benevolence, is quite emphasized in your chart. Like any Jupiterian, you are warm, open, sociable, consensual, active and optimistic. You can use your self-confidence to erase differences of opinion, and you leave the task of analyzing and perfecting things to specialists. Your role, and you know it since you were young, is to gather, to demonstrate your synthesizing and conciliatory mind, and to naturally reap its fruits - power. You appreciate legality, social order but also order in general. With you as a leader, every plan or human entity can be organized and structured. You excel at supervising. The Jupiterian type is indeed the politician par excellence, and a positive Jupiter in your chart is synonymous with good integration into society, whatever the chosen path. Is this idyllic picture really perfect? Certainly not: each planet's typology has its own weaknesses. One of yours is pride, like the Solarian, but your will of expansion at all costs may generate a form of exaggeration in everything, endless pleasure, inappropriate self-confidence that could lead you to rough materialism and the thirst for absurd material comfort - in the worst cases, of course. In your natal chart, the three most important signs - according to criteria mentioned above - are in decreasing order of strength Gemini, Taurus and Sagittarius. In general, these signs are important because your Ascendant or your Sun is located there. But this is not always the case: there may be a cluster of planets, or a planet may be near an angle other than the Midheaven or Ascendant. It may also be because two or three planets are considered to be very active because they form numerous aspects from these signs. Thus, you display some of the three signs' characteristics, a bit like a superposition of features on the rest of your chart, and it is all the more so if the sign is emphasized. With Gemini as a dominant sign, your qualities include being lively, curious, mobile, clever, and flexible: you often make others dizzy, and you may come across as a dilettante - a bit inquisitive, shallow, and insensitive because you may be too intellectualizing. However, your natural curiosity, a nice quality, and your quick humour, allow you to demonstrate to everyone how much they may gain from your company, and that your apparent flightiness hides an appetite (particularly mental) for life, which itself conceals a terrific charm! With the Taurus sign so important in your chart, you are constructive, stable, and sensual. Good taste, sense of beauty, manners, and unfailing good sense - all these qualities contribute to your charm and seductive power. Furthermore, if some people criticize your slow pace and your stubbornness, you rightly reply that this is the price for your security, and that you like the way it is - slow and steady.... Sagittarius, an adventurous and conquering fire sign, is dominant in your chart: you are enthusiastic, enterprising, optimistic, very sociable, and mobile - you have itchy feet, both physically and mentally. Nobody gets bored with you because you are always planning things and suggesting excursions, at least... when you are around and not already gone on a trip! Obviously, so many movements for one man may scare people off, and some of them may even criticize your brutality or your tendency to loose your temper, but you are so warm and genuine, so expansive, isn't this a good thing? And all the more so, since your sense of humour is overwhelming... The 5th, 6th and 4th houses are the most prominent ones in your birth chart. From the analysis of the most tenanted houses, the astrologer identifies your most significant fields or spheres of activity. They deal with what you are experiencing - or what you will be brought to experience one day - or they deal with your inner motivations. The 5th house is one of your dominant houses: hobbies, love life, sports, and games, including speculation and all kinds of entertainment, are fields that you actually take seriously! On a more subtle level, artistic creation as well as other forms of creation - including begetting children - could be one of your assets. You gain from taking part in leisure associations and various activity clubs in which a catchword resounds more than for most people: pleasure. Your 6th house is quite emphasized and indicates interest in work and daily occupations that take up a lot of your time: in analogy with Virgo, this house inclines towards perfectionism and training; somehow, you may be fulfilled through the process of being useful and investing your energy in your work. An environment appealing to you may be involved - your colleagues, for example - or a passion for one of these daily occupations. Medical positions or pets may play a role in your life; or ancillary love affairs too... These are a few possibilities indicated by an important 6th house. With an important 4th house in your chart, your private life, your intimacy, as well as your family and home, play a fundamental role. Your security and your family unit, the one you come from, but also the one you set up when you get married and start a family - or even as a bachelor living alone in your sweet home - are necessary for you to blossom. According to the Tradition, your father may play an important role in your life. After this paragraph about dominant planets, of Giulio Carlo Argan, here are the character traits that you must read more carefully than the previous texts since they are very specific: the texts about dominant planets only give background information about the personality and remain quite general: they emphasize or, on the contrary, mitigate different particularities or facets of a personality. A human being is a complex whole and only bodies of texts can attempt to successfully figure out all the finer points. The Moon in Taurus and in House 4: his sensitivityYou love nature as much as your comfort, Giulio Carlo Argan, you are an Epicurean willing to enjoy life's beautiful and good things within the family clan or with friends who value your conviviality and your kindness. You are faithful, stable, with your feet rooted in the ground and you are reliable in all circumstances. You are attached to your affective and material security. You tend to be jealous and possessive and, although your nature is quite slow, you may be short-tempered and aggressive when you feel threatened. In such cases, you display an exceptional stubbornness and fury and it becomes impossible to make you change your mind. Although you are aware that your behaviour is wrong, you stick to your line and your grudge is persistent. However, you are so sensitive to tenderness and to concrete gestures of affection that a few presents or a few caresses are enough to make you see life through rose-coloured glasses again... Your family, your home and often your mother, Giulio Carlo Argan, have a strong emotional importance. You feel attached to your roots and the intimate surroundings in which you live are essential; you are deeply fulfilled by this continuous source of affective charges: your home and private life... (excerpt) Mercury in Gemini and in House 6: his intellect and social lifeGiulio Carlo Argan, an enquiring intelligence, an instant understanding and a wide range of interests prompt you to go towards other people in all circumstances with a view to exchanging ideas and to show your talent for repartee. Ideas and actions must be quick and you are likely to be impatient, even critical and sarcastic with people who cannot match your frantic rhythm. You are very adaptable, you can do several different things at the same time and also think of a future action because you constantly need to be on the move. You may be criticized for your superficiality, for spreading yourself too thin and for your propensity to conceal the truth, but you always get out of tricky situations incredibly well because you are very astute, shrewd and charming. It is at work that you can release your mental power full steam ahead, Giulio Carlo Argan. What's the point of racking one's brains if it's not to show ones professional value, to climb the social ladder, to earn ones colleagues' esteem, and to improve oneself every day... (excerpt) Venus in Gemini and in House 5, and the Sun in Taurus: his affectivity and seductivenessIn your chart, the Sun is in Taurus and Venus, in Gemini. Two signs may follow each other and be quite different: Taurus' essential and fragile desire for balance opposes Gemini's will to discover, to experiment, to increase the variety of emotions and encounters (Venus). These two signs are definitely complementary. The Sun in Taurus facilitates the establishment of long-lasting affective adventures and therefore, it achieves fulfilment. Venus in Gemini hates to lock up the couple in a routine inevitably detrimental to the spontaneity and the plenitude of feelings. However, perfect balance can be achieved only when both tendencies are expressed although they are antinomical in many regards. Selecting your partner, understanding and evolving abilities are decisive here. You must satisfy your solar sign's thirst for tranquillity and Venus' needs for novelty, alternately. You must meet the urges for intimacy, stability and the pressing necessity to fuel your passion, over and over again. As paradoxical as it may seem, you love only that very person who sometimes upsets Taurus' quietness and who challenges the serenity you dream of. Because passion is priceless. This is the price you have to pay for it. What is it, that really appeals to you, Giulio Carlo Argan, to love or to please? You have so much charm and so much volubility that you easily manage to be what is known as a lady-killer. Feelings and intellect are so tightly mingled that you may not know any more whether you are really in love or whether you are acting. You have a taste for flirt and variety, and you appreciate very much complicated situations where no one knows where the truth lies any more. You shift from one game to another. To you, everything can be an agent for seduction, be it your attitudes, your words or the way you dress. You do not separate your actions from your desire to please. People who do not understand this are in trouble because, if they take your sweet and well-phrased speeches too literally, they are likely to undergo cruel disappointments: for you, it is only a matter of living in the moment and you never commit yourself because, above all, you loathe confinement, even just its thought. Giulio Carlo Argan, your Venus has a natural affinity with this house. She feels very comfortable and she gives her best in terms of intensity of feelings, artistic creativity, inclination for leisure, entertainment, fine arts and music gifts and even, the capacity to easily communicate with children. With... (excerpt) The Ascendant is in Sagittarius and the ruler of the Ascendant is Jupiter, in Virgo: his behaviourPsychologically speaking, your nature is extroverted and independent, oriented towards expansion and sociability. You have the soul of a leader, energetic and active. Your charisma and your drive are fully integrated into the collective life. Indeed, as an action-oriented fire sign, you challenge yourself and you succeed in accomplishing the task straight away. Sagittarius is hard to follow because his spirit and his independent mind constantly prompt him to go further and higher. As you are born under this sign, you are charismatic, fiery, energetic, likeable, benevolent, tidy, jovial, optimistic, extroverted, amusing, straightforward, demonstrative, charming, independent, adventurous, straightforward, bold, exuberant, freedom-loving. But you may also be irascible, selfish, authoritarian, inconsistent, unfaithful, brutal, unreliable, reckless, tactless or unpleasant. In love, Sir, you are the mobile fire that consumes everything in your way. You are constantly in love, you are passionate and your energy and your extroversion create a love life that could fit a serialized novel: mobile and changing, you are not the man of a single woman, at least until you find the person who resists you and who arouses a love powerful enough to tame you. Your need for freedom and independence is so strong that it is difficult for you to settle down. Many break-ups are caused by a feeling of smothering, when your love of the moment becomes too demanding. However, since you are also unstable, you often patch up as if nothing had happened and you will be forgiven: this paradox comes from your explosive mixture comprising ardour, energy, benevolence and fickleness. Similarly to the way in which you run your business, you will settle down when you reach your forties or your fifties. You become a good husband and a good father, well acquainted with the rules of your society, full of contentment and joy. Your home will provide the room you need so that you do not feel imprisoned. The ruler of the Ascendant, also referred to as the chart ruler, brings a few interesting nuances to the meanings provided by the Sun and the Ascendant. The sign in which the ruler of the Ascendant is posited fine-tunes the style of personality described by the Sun and the Ascendant. It may strengthen it if the sign is identical to either of them. The ruler of the Ascendant, Giulio Carlo Argan, is Jupiter. In the sign of Virgo, it turns you into a cautious and rational person, sometimes to the detriment of your feelings. You like to improve yourself, and you pay a great deal of attention to details. You respect the rules, and you appreciate well-done work. However, you may lack self-confidence or you may hesitate, perhaps because you hate to make mistakes, since you believe that truth is a major quality. The Sun in Taurus and in House 5: his will and inner motivationsPeace, joy of life and sensuality are essential to you: You have a simple and quiet nature. You easily find happiness because you are not competitive. In addition, your relaxed attitude and your common sense always take you to places where you are happy, even though you are not the number one, even though you do not move in haste. The important thing for you is to construct, with patience and persistence. These two qualities yield strong, steadfast, and sustainable efforts that can withstand any pitfalls. You are gentle, with a slow thinking process, but once you have opted for an orientation, nothing, no one, can make you change your mind. You loathe changes in general, and once you have taken the few major unavoidable decisions in the course of your life, you are on track! As you are born under this sign, you are loyal, steadfast, strong, patient, enduring, persistent, attached, sensual, realistic, constructive, tenacious, with a strong need for security. But you may also be stubborn, rigid, possessive, materialistic, static and slow. In love, Sir, more often than not, your passions are strong. It may take you some time to be moved, but once you choice is made, it is a lasting one and you are particularly endearing and loyal. You are not interested in infidelity or in having numerous partners. Your love emerges slowly but it grows in depth, like a root which solidifies with time. You are not too romantic because you are so practical and conventional but your style and your sexiness compensate for your lack of idealism. You tend to associate the concept of marriage with that of lifestyle or of the benefits that come with it. Your physical urges are pressing; you are sensual and pleasure takes an important place in your life. You appreciate partners who cook like a cordon-bleu and who may cause a few gastronomic excesses, but you readily accept them. Giulio Carlo Argan, your main motivations and your will lead you towards activities related to creation or to the outwards expression of yourself. It may take the form of the mobilization of your energy aiming at artistic, literary or technical creations and works, innovative projects design, or symbolically,... (excerpt) Mars in Aquarius and in House 2: his ability to take actionGiulio Carlo Argan, the way you take action is quite paradoxical: you carry out your business perfectly well when you are in a teamwork with collective goals, but you do so in your original and individualistic manner: this is your main peculiarity. Your concern is to express your originality and your specificity while remaining immersed in a human community. You are curt and not very flexible. You are inventive and you easily fight authority, just because its very principle runs counter to the sacred values of freedom, independence and, above all, the absence of constraint. Competition does not appeal to you. You prefer to be useful and to conquer new territories of the humanitarian or the intellectual type. On the sexual plane, you are also often original and surprising regarding your fantasies and your tastes. Giulio Carlo Argan, your capacity for action perfectly matches your personal enrichment and enhances your earning abilities! It is easy for you to engage into fights aiming at ensuring your material security, as it is the best outlet for your energy: it must serve a purpose, otherwise why... (excerpt) ConclusionThis text is only an excerpt from the portrait of of Giulio Carlo Argan, which we hope will inspire you to deepen your knowledge of astrology. If you wish, you can instantly get your own full astrological portrait, far more detailed than this overview. | |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| To add this celebrity to your favourites, please create an account. To get your compatibility ratings with this celebrity, please create an account.


--- [Olympedia –GiulioCarloArgan] ---
| Roles | Referee | |---|---| | Sex | Male | | Full name | Giulio Carlo Giovanni Viatore Giuseppe Ubaldo Giovenale Paolo•Argan | | Used name | Giulio Carlo•Argan | | Born | 17 May 1909 in Torino, Torino (ITA) | | Died | 11 November 1992 (aged 83 years 5 months 25 days) in Roma, Roma (ITA) | | NOC | Italy | Giulio Carlo Argan studied art history at the University of Turin and was particularly interested in architecture. In 1931, he graduated with a thesis entitled “La teoria di architettura di Sebastiano Serlio”. As early as 1928, he joined the Fascist Party, of which he became increasingly critical, although he continued to work within the institutions of the regime. In 1933 Argan joined the Administration of Antiquities and Fine Arts. He became an inspector in Turin, then in Modena, and finally in the general directorate in Rome, where he was also editor of the journal Le Arti. He made a trip to the United States in 1939. In the early 1940s, he worked regularly for the magazines Primato and Il ventuno domani. In the postwar period, Argan championed abstract art and modern architecture in books and writings and was also involved in urban planning, museology, and design. He also published monographs on Renaissance artists and developed a new interpretation of Baroque art. From 1955, he taught at the University of Palermo and four years later was appointed to the chair of History of Modern Art in Rome. He was head of the modern section of the Enciclopedia Universale dell’Arte. In 1958, he became a member of the Supreme Council of Antiquities and Fine Arts. The International Association of Art Critics appointed him its president in 1963. He also became a member for Italy of the Comité International d’Histoire de l’Art, of which he was elected president in 1979. In the 1960s, Argan played a leading role in the debate on the development of the most modern currents in art. In 1968, he published Storia dell’arte italiana, followed by L’arte moderna 1770-1970, and he became a member of the Academy of Sciences in Turin. The following year he founded the journal Storia dell’arte. A respected representative of the left, Argan was the first non-Christian Democratic mayor of Rome in 1976-79, elected as an independent on the list of the Italian Communist Party. During his term, in a very difficult period for the city of Rome, marked by terrorism, social tensions, and the underworld, the experiment of the “Roman Summer” cultural program was launched, which was to become a regular event. From 1983-92, Argan was a senator for two terms, again on the lists of the Communist Party. In 1991-92, he assumed the post of “Minister” of Cultural and Environmental Heritage for the Democratic Party of the Left in the so-called “shadow government”. In 1982, Argan donated his library to the University of Rome La Sapienza, which appointed him Professor Emeritus. He published his last book, Michelangelo architetto, in 1990. One of his last public actions was the founding in 1991 of the “Associazione Bianchi Bandinelli” to promote collaboration between research and cultural heritage preservation. In 1984, Argan was one of the famous victims of the “Livorno hoax”, since he asserted with certainty the authenticity of the three heads found in Livorno and attributed to artist Amedeo Modigliani (1884-1920), which later turned out to be forgeries. | Games | Sport (Discipline) / Event | NOC / Team | Phase | Unit | Role | As | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | 1948 Summer Olympics | Art Competitions | ITA | Giulio Carlo Argan | |||| | Painting, Paintings, Open (Olympic) | Final Standings | Judge |


--- [GiulioCarloArgan- Spouse, Children, Birthday & More] ---
| student of | | | students | | | birth date | | | birth place | | death death | | occupations | | | employers | | | positions held | | | member of | | | countries of citizenship | | | work locations | | native languages | | | writing languages | | | languages spoken, written or signed | | educated at | | awards received | | | sex/gender | | | member of | | | member of political parties | | | zodiac | | | chinese zodiac |


--- [Olympedia –GiulioCarloArgan] ---
| Roles | Referee | |---|---| | Sex | Male | | Full name | Giulio Carlo Giovanni Viatore Giuseppe Ubaldo Giovenale Paolo•Argan | | Used name | Giulio Carlo•Argan | | Born | 17 May 1909 in Torino, Torino (ITA) | | Died | 11 November 1992 (aged 83 years 5 months 25 days) in Roma, Roma (ITA) | | NOC | Italy | Giulio Carlo Argan studied art history at the University of Turin and was particularly interested in architecture. In 1931, he graduated with a thesis entitled “La teoria di architettura di Sebastiano Serlio”. As early as 1928, he joined the Fascist Party, of which he became increasingly critical, although he continued to work within the institutions of the regime. In 1933 Argan joined the Administration of Antiquities and Fine Arts. He became an inspector in Turin, then in Modena, and finally in the general directorate in Rome, where he was also editor of the journal Le Arti. He made a trip to the United States in 1939. In the early 1940s, he worked regularly for the magazines Primato and Il ventuno domani. In the postwar period, Argan championed abstract art and modern architecture in books and writings and was also involved in urban planning, museology, and design. He also published monographs on Renaissance artists and developed a new interpretation of Baroque art. From 1955, he taught at the University of Palermo and four years later was appointed to the chair of History of Modern Art in Rome. He was head of the modern section of the Enciclopedia Universale dell’Arte. In 1958, he became a member of the Supreme Council of Antiquities and Fine Arts. The International Association of Art Critics appointed him its president in 1963. He also became a member for Italy of the Comité International d’Histoire de l’Art, of which he was elected president in 1979. In the 1960s, Argan played a leading role in the debate on the development of the most modern currents in art. In 1968, he published Storia dell’arte italiana, followed by L’arte moderna 1770-1970, and he became a member of the Academy of Sciences in Turin. The following year he founded the journal Storia dell’arte. A respected representative of the left, Argan was the first non-Christian Democratic mayor of Rome in 1976-79, elected as an independent on the list of the Italian Communist Party. During his term, in a very difficult period for the city of Rome, marked by terrorism, social tensions, and the underworld, the experiment of the “Roman Summer” cultural program was launched, which was to become a regular event. From 1983-92, Argan was a senator for two terms, again on the lists of the Communist Party. In 1991-92, he assumed the post of “Minister” of Cultural and Environmental Heritage for the Democratic Party of the Left in the so-called “shadow government”. In 1982, Argan donated his library to the University of Rome La Sapienza, which appointed him Professor Emeritus. He published his last book, Michelangelo architetto, in 1990. One of his last public actions was the founding in 1991 of the “Associazione Bianchi Bandinelli” to promote collaboration between research and cultural heritage preservation. In 1984, Argan was one of the famous victims of the “Livorno hoax”, since he asserted with certainty the authenticity of the three heads found in Livorno and attributed to artist Amedeo Modigliani (1884-1920), which later turned out to be forgeries. | Games | Sport (Discipline) / Event | NOC / Team | Phase | Unit | Role | As | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | 1948 Summer Olympics | Art Competitions | ITA | Giulio Carlo Argan | |||| | Painting, Paintings, Open (Olympic) | Final Standings | Judge |
