=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikipedia]
The D. B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, or political science.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._B._Hardeman_Prize

[D. B. Hardeman Prize - Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum]
The D.B. Hardeman Prize is awarded for the best book on the U.S. Congress, from the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Mr. Hardeman, a dedicated student of and avid collector of books about the Congress, was a long-time assistant to legendary Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn of Texas. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to ...
URL: https://www.lbjlibrary.org/foundation/initiatives/hardeman-prize

[D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikiwand]
The D. B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, or political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/D.B._Hardeman_Prize

[Book by Zelizer Named Winner of D.B. Hardeman Prize]
Jun 7, 2018 — The Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation awarded the D.B. Hardeman Prize to Julian E. Zelizer 's book, “The Fierce Urgency of Now: Lyndon Johnson, ...
URL: https://spia.princeton.edu/news/book-zelizer-named-winner-db-hardeman-prize

[D.B. Hardeman Prize - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
The D.B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/D.B.-Hardeman-Prize


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The D. B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, or political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary craftsmanship, (4) originality, and (5) depth of research. Members of the national selection committee are: Senator Tom Daschle; Lee Hamilton, Director of The Center on Congress; Thomas Mann of The Brookings Institution; Leslie Sanchez of Impacto Group; and Nancy Beck Young of The University of Houston.
D. Barnard Hardeman, Jr. (1914–1981) was a politician, political scholar, journalist and teacher. He graduated from the University of Texas and the University of Texas Law School and served in the U.S. Army during World War II. Hardeman served in the 52nd and 54th Legislatures representing Grayson and Collin counties in the Texas House of Representatives.  Between 1958 and 1961, he worked as an assistant to Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House, and was Rayburn's official biographer.  An avid bibliophile whose book collection numbered more than ten thousand volumes, Hardeman bequeathed his collection of American biographies and political history to the LBJ Presidential Library in Austin, Texas.




--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize - Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum] ---
About the Prize The D.B. Hardeman Prize is awarded for the best book on the U.S. Congress, from the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Mr. Hardeman, a dedicated student of and avid collector of books about the Congress, was a long-time assistant to legendary Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn of Texas. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary craftsmanship, (4) originality, and (5) depth of research. The members of the national selection committee include: Senator Tom Daschle; Lee Hamilton, director of The Center on Congress; Thomas Mann of The Brookings Institution; Leslie Sanchez of Impacto Group; Clay Smith of Kirkus Media; Jeremi Suri of The University of Texas at Austin; and Jason Casellas and Nancy Beck Young of The University of Houston. Previous winners include Robert Caro, David Oshinsky, and Frances Lee. If you are interested in submitting a title for consideration for the next Hardeman Prize, please contact Samantha Stone, Chief Operating Officer, at samantha@lbjfoundation.org or call (512) 721-0263. Meet the 2021 Prize Recipient The LBJ Foundation's 32nd D.B. Hardeman Prize winner for the best book on the U.S. Congress is "Southern Nation: Congress and White Supremacy after Reconstruction” by David A. Bateman, Ira Katznelson, and John S. Lapinski. Southern Nation examines how southern members of Congress shaped national public policy and American institutions from Reconstruction to the New Deal—and along the way remade the region and the nation in their own image. The presentation was hosted virtually by the LBJ School of Public Affairs' Washington Center on Thursday, May 27, 2021. The event featured a conversation moderated by Peniel Joseph of the LBJ School of Public Affairs with Drs. Bateman, Katznelson, and Lapinski. Recipients of the D. B. Hardeman Prize 1980 Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Home Style: House Members in Their Districts, Little, Brown and Company 1982 Allen Schick Congress and Money: Budgeting, Spending and Taxing, The Urban Institute 1984 James L. Sundquist The Decline and Resurgence of Congress, Brookings Institution Press 1986 David M. Oshinsky A Conspiracy So Immense: The World of Joe McCarthy, The Free Press 1988 Paul Light Artful Work: The Politics of Social Security Reform, Random House 1990 Christopher H. Foreman, Jr. Signals From the Hill: Congressional Oversight and the Challenge of Social Regulation, Yale University Press 1992 Barbara Sinclair The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, The Johns Hopkins University Press 1994 Gilbert C. Fite Richard B. Russell, Jr., Senator From Georgia, The University of North Carolina Press 1995 Carol M. Swain Black Faces, Black Interests: The Representation of African Americans in Congress, Harvard University Press 1995 John Jacobs A Rage for Justice: The Passion and Politics of Phillip Burton, University of California Press 1996 William Lee Miller Arguing About Slavery: The Great Battle in the United States Congress, Alfred A. Knopf 1997 Robert V. Remini Daniel Webster: The Man and His Time, W.W. Norton and Company 1998 Julian E. Zelizer Taxing America: Wilbur D. Mills, Congress, and the State, 1945-1975, Cambridge University Press 1999 Frances E. Lee and Bruce I. Oppenheimer Sizing Up the Senate: The Unequal Consequences of Equal Representation, The University of Chicago Press 2000 Nancy Beck Young Wright Patman: Populism, Liberalism, & the American Dream, Southern Methodist University Press 2001 John Aloysius Farrell Tip O'Neill and the Democratic Century, Little, Brown and Company 2002 Robert Caro The Years of Lyndon Johnson: Master of the Senate, Random House 2003 Don Oberdorfer Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat,Smithsonian Books 2004 Michael Ybarra Washington Gone Crazy: Senator Pat McCarran and the Great American Communist Hunt, Steerforth Press 2005 David M. Barrett The CIA and Congress: The Untold Story from Truman to Kennedy, University Press of Kansas 2006 Robert David Johnson Congress and the Cold War, Cambridge University Press 2007 William G. Howell and Jon C. Pevehouse While Dangers Gather: Congressional Checks on Presidential War Powers, Princeton University Press 2008 Keith Finley Delaying the Dream: Southern Senators and the Fight against Civil Rights, 1938-1965, Louisiana State University Press 2009 Frances E. Lee Beyond Ideology: Politics, Principles, and Partisanship in the U.S. Senate, The University of Chicago Press 25th Douglas L. Kriner After the Rubicon: Congress, Presidents, and the Politics of Waging War, The University of Chicago Press 26th Eric S. Heberlig and Bruce A. Larson Congressional Parties, Institutional Ambition, and the Financing of Majority Control, The University of Michigan Press 27th Neil MacNeil and Richard A. Baker The American Senate: An Insider’s Guide, Oxford University Press 28th Dr. Rebecca U. Thorpe The American Warfare State: The Domestic Politics of Military Spending, The University of Chicago Press 29th Julian E. Zelizer The Fierce Urgency of Now: Lyndon Johnson, Congress, and the Battle for the Great Society 30th Gergus M. Bordewich The First Congress: How James Madison, George Washington, and a Group of Extraordinary Men Invented the Government 31st Dr. Ruth Bloch Rubin Bulding the Bloc: Intraparty Organization in the U.S. Congress


--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Book by Zelizer Named Winner of D.B. Hardeman Prize] ---
The Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation awarded the D.B. Hardeman Prize to Julian E. Zelizer’s book, “The Fierce Urgency of Now: Lyndon Johnson, Congress, and the Battle for the Great Society,” published in 2015 by the Penguin Press. The $10,000 prize is awarded annually for the best book on the U.S. Congress, from the fields of biography, history, journalism and political science. Zelizer is the Malcolm Stevenson Forbes, Class of 1941 Professor of History and Public Affairs at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and a CNN political analyst. He is the author and editor of 19 books on American political history, has written hundreds of op-eds, and appears regularly on television and radio. He has received fellowships at the New York Historical Society, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Russell Sage Foundation, New America and Brookings. In “The Fierce Urgency of Now,” Zelizer provides insight into the years between November 1962 and November 1966 when President Lyndon Baines Johnson spearheaded the most transformative agenda in American politics since the New Deal. Zelizer relays the epic story of how this agenda of progressive initiatives — known as the Great Society — came to pass, by examining the bitterly divided forces at play in the country, including the battles that raged inside Congress and the administration. About the D.B. Hardeman Prize D. Barnard Hardeman Jr. was a teacher, politician and political advisor. He was a member of the Texas legislature before moving to Washington, D.C. in 1957 to serve as assistant to Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn. After Rayburn’s death in 1961, Hardeman worked for Majority Whip Hale Boggs of Louisiana, and in 1964 the American Political Science Association named him the first Honorary Congressional Fellow. Upon his death in 1981, Hardeman bequeathed the seed money to create the prize that bears his name, as well as his extensive collection of books on American history and biography, to the LBJ Presidential Library.


--- [D.B. Hardeman Prize - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
The D.B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary craftsmanship, (4) originality, and (5) depth of research. Members of the national selection committee are: Senator Tom Daschle; Lee Hamilton, Director of The Center on Congress; Thomas Mann of The Brookings Institution; Leslie Sanchez of Impacto Group; and Nancy Beck Young of The University of Houston. D. Barnard Hardeman, Jr. (1914-1981) was a politician, political scholar, journalist and teacher. He graduated from the University of Texas and the University of Texas Law School and served in the U.S. Army during World War II. Hardeman served in the 52nd and 54th Legislatures representing Grayson and Collin counties in the Texas House of Representatives. Between 1958 and 1961, he worked as an assistant to Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House, and was Rayburn's official biographer. An avid bibliophile whose book collection numbered more than ten thousand volumes, Hardeman bequeathed his collection of American biographies and political history to the LBJ Presidential Library in Austin, Texas. 1980 Richard F. Fenno Jr., Home Style: House Members in Their Districts, Little, Brown and Company 1982 Allen Schick, Congress and Money: Budgeting, Spending and Taxing, The Urban Institute 1984 James L. Sundquist, The Decline and Resurgence of Congress, Brookings Institution Press 1986 David Oshinsky, A Conspiracy So Immense: The World of Joe McCarthy, The Free Press 1988 Paul Light, Artful Work: The Politics of Social Security Reform, Random House 1990 Christopher H. Foreman, Jr., Signals From the Hill: Congressional Oversight and the Challenge of Social Regulation, Yale University Press 1992 Barbara Sinclair, The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, The Johns Hopkins University Press 1994 Gilbert C. Fite, Richard B. Russell, Jr., Senator From Georgia, The University of North Carolina Press 1995 Carol M. Swain, Black Faces, Black Interests: The Representation of African Americans in Congress, Harvard University Press 1995 John Jacobs, A Rage for Justice: The Passion and Politics of Phillip Burton, University of California Press 1996 William Lee Miller, Arguing About Slavery: The Great Battle in the United States Congress, Alfred A. Knopf 1997 Robert V. Remini, Daniel Webster: The Man and His Time, W. W. Norton and Company 1998 Julian Zelizer, Taxing America: Wilbur D. Mills, Congress, and the State, 1945-1975, Cambridge University Press 1999 Frances E. Lee and Bruce I. Oppenheimer, Sizing Up the Senate: The Unequal Consequences of Equal Representation, The University of Chicago Press 2000 Nancy Beck Young, Wright Patman: Populism, Liberalism, & the American Dream, Southern Methodist University Press 2001 John Aloysius Farrell, Tip O’Neill and the American Century, Little, Brown and Company 2002 Robert Caro, The Years of Lyndon Johnson: Master of the Senate, Random House 2003 Don Oberdorfer, Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat, Smithsonian Books 2004 Michael J. Ybarra, Washington Gone Crazy, Steerforth Press 2005 David M. Barrett, The CIA and Congress: The Untold Story from Truman to Knnedy, University Press of Kansas 2006 Robert David Johnson, Congress and the Cold War, Cambridge University Press 2007 William G. Howell and Jon C. Pevehouse, While Dangers Gather: Congressional Checks on Presidential War Powers, Princeton University Press 2008 Keith Finley, Delaying the Dream: Southern Senators and the Fight against Civil Rights, 1938-1965, Louisiana State University Press 2009 Frances E. Lee, Beyond Ideology: Politics, Principles, and Partisanship in the U.S. Senate, The University of Chicago Press D.B. Hardeman Prize Wikipedia (Text) CC BY-SA
