=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[World Federation of Engineering Organizations - Wikipedia]
The World Federation of Engineering Organizations (French: Federation Mondiale des Organisations d'Ingenieurs; WFEO) is an international, non-governmental organization representing the engineering profession worldwide. Founded in 1968 by a group of regional engineering organizations, under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) in Paris ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Federation_of_Engineering_Organizations

[Executive Board - WFEO]
Mustafa B. Shehu Past President Mustafa B. Shehu was President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers 2012-2013 and President of the Federation of African Engineering Organizations (FAEO) from 2015 to 2016. He studied electrical engineering in Nigeria and started his career with the 1,320MW Lagos Thermal Power Station Egbin. He was appointed to the Kano State Rural Electricity Board as a Senior ...
URL: https://www.wfeo.org/executive-board/

[World Federation of Engineering Organizations]
The World Federation of Engineering Organizations (WFEO) is the global organization for the engineering profession. Founded in 1968, under the auspices of UNESCO, WFEO brings together national engineering institutions from some 100 nations and represents more than 30 million engineers.
URL: https://www.wfeo.org/

[World Federation of Engineering Organizations - Wikiwand]
The World Federation of Engineering Organizations is an international, non-governmental organization representing the engineering profession worldwide.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/WFEO

[Dato' Ir. (Dr.) Lee Yee CheongISTIC-UNESCO]
He was President and now Distinguished Honorary Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Malaysia; Chairman and now Honorary President of Commonwealth Engineers ...
URL: https://broadbandcommission.org/commissioner/dato-ir-dr-lee-yee-cheong/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [World Federation of Engineering Organizations - Wikipedia] ---
The World Federation of Engineering Organizations (French: Federation Mondiale des Organisations d'Ingenieurs; WFEO) is an international, non-governmental organization representing the engineering profession worldwide.
Founded in 1968 by a group of regional engineering organizations, under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) in Paris, WFEO is a non governmental international organization that brings together national engineering organizations from over 90 nations and represents some 20 million engineers from around the world.
WFEO is part of the United Nations system as an NGO in official relations with UNESCO (associate status) since its foundation, and as taking part in the work of its main bodies, mainly the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and its specialized agencies, notably the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme. At the UN ECOSOC, WFEO co-organizes with the International Science Council the Scientific and Technological Community Major Group.
In 2019, based on proposal by WFEO, the UNESCO's General Conference approved the creation of the UNESCO World Engineering Day for Sustainable Development, to be celebrated on 4 March of each year. Since then, WFEO has been coordinating the related celebrations around the world, through its membership and partnering institutions.




--- [Executive Board - WFEO] ---
Seng Chuan Tan President Er. TAN Seng-Chuan holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) and Master of Science (Building Science) from the National University of Singapore. He is a Professional Engineer (Civil) and Chartered Engineer (Environment & Water) registered in Singapore, National Environment Agency accredited GHG Lead Verifier, GRI Certified Sustainability Professional and a Senior Practicing Management Consultant (Sustainability) Certified by Singapore Business Advisors and Consultants Council. His professional experiences cover the sectors of Sustainability, Climate Change, Environmental, Water, Energy, Built Environment & Infrastructure, Chemical and Petrochemical, Oil & Gas and other Industrial projects in Asia Pacific region. Er. Tan holds various positions in the early part of his career. In 2010, he was appointed as Director of CH2MHill responsible for the operation and development of the water and environmental services business in the Asia Pacific Region. In 2015 he joined Ramboll Environ (Asia Pacific) as Regional Managing Director leading the development and implementation of company strategies across offices in Asia Pacific. Presently, he served as Managing Director of TEMBUSU Asia Consulting Pte Ltd, a leading sustainability consultancy company in Asia focus on the development and implementation of United Nation Sustainability Development Goals. TEMBUSU Asia is accredited by Singapore Accreditation Council (SAC) and Asia Carbon Institute (ACI) accredited Validation & Verification Body. Er. TAN is the Emeritus President of the Institution of Engineers, Singapore (IES) where he served as President from 2006 to 2008; he also served as President of the Federation of Engineering Institutions of Asia and the Pacific (FEIAP) from 2007 till 2011, Chairman of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Engineers Coordinating Committee and member of the International Engineering Alliance (IEA) Governing Board from 2015 to 2019. Presently he serves as President-Elect of the World Federation of Engineering Organization (WFEO) and Chairman of Chartered Engineering Board in Singapore. Seng Chuan Tan was elected to the position of President-Elect at the Federation’s General Assembly in Prague, Czech Republic in October 2023 and became President at the General Assembly in Shanghai on 17 October 2025. K. N. Gunalan President-Elect K.N. Gunalan (Guna) is the Chair of the WFEO-UN Relations Committee (WURC), the Past President of the American Society of Civil Engineers (2020), the Co-Chair of the UN Scientific & Technological Community Major Group and the President of the Atlas Initiative. Guna is Vice President and Senior Project Director at HNTB Corporation. He was senior Vice President, transportation, alternative delivery, Americas at AECOM, based in Salt Lake City, UT. Previously, he was a vice president at WSP USA, formerly Parsons Brinckerhoff. Guna has managed large complex infrastructure projects, providing technical advice on civil, structural, geotechnical, pavement, and materials issues on a variety of projects around the world. His collaborative approach has contributed to many successful programs and projects ranging from a few thousand dollars to more than 3 billion dollars. He has been active in the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) for many years, including leadership roles as President (2020), Region 8 director (2009-2012), Region 8 governor (2005-2007), Utah Section president (2002-2003), and Texas Section High Plains Branch president (1992). He served as the chair of ASCE’s 2014 Global Engineering Conference in Panama City, Panama, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Panama Canal. Most recently, he served as a governor for the Geo-Institute and was a member of the steering committee for the 2017 ASCE India Conference. Guna was elected to the position of President-Elect of WFEO at the General Assembly in Shanghai, China, on 17 October 2025. Mustafa B. Shehu Past President Mustafa B. Shehu was President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers 2012-2013 and President of the Federation of African Engineering Organizations (FAEO) from 2015 to 2016. He studied electrical engineering in Nigeria and started his career with the 1,320MW Lagos Thermal Power Station Egbin. He was appointed to the Kano State Rural Electricity Board as a Senior Engineer, where he rose to the position of Assistant Director in 1998, following which he established with colleagues, MBS Engineering Limited. The company has expertise in electrical and mechanical engineering services, power engineering as well as Oil and Gas engineering. Mustafa participates actively in the activities of professional and business associations. He is a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers as well as Fellow of the Solar Energy Society of Nigeria. He became President of WFEO from the General Assembly in Prague, Czech Republic, in October 2023, to the General Assembly in Shanghai, China, on 17 October 2025. Ania Lopez Executive Vice-President Ania Lopez has a double degree in Mechanical Engineering in Cuba and Italy. She has over 20 years of experience as an engineer in public and private works in large infrastructures including the construction, HVAC, healthcare and electricity sectors. She is a consultant as Project Manager for Energy Engineer for the European project “Next Generation EU” in the authorization processes for all Renewable Energy Plants in the Lazio Region. In 2022 she obtained a PhD in Industrial and Management Engineering,Sapienza University of Rome, with research activities in the field of agrivoltaic production and renewable energy. She was also appointed coordinator of the FAO-WFEO Project. From 2020, she was chair of the WFEO Awards Committee and member of the Committees Support and Review Working Group. Since 2013, she was the delegate of the Italian National Council of Engineers (CNI) at WFEO and active member in the Committees on Women and Energy. From 2011 to 2022, she was member of CNI (Ministry of Justice) and of the Foundation Board of the National Council of Engineers. Ania Lopez has been elected Executive Vice-President of WFEO at the General Assembly in Prague on 14 October 2023. Firas Bou Diab Executive Vice-President Eng. Firas Bou Diab is a Project Manager and a Senior Transportation Engineer at a world-leading planning, design, management and supervision consultancy trusted by more than 850 clients, consistently ranked among the world’s top 10 engineering and architectural global consultancies for over 25 years. He has a considerable and diversified experience in many areas of transportation and infrastructure with a wide spectrum of design aspects in the Middle East, Africa, the Arab Gulf region and elsewhere. His wide exposure to a variety of projects has provided him with a practical understanding of a range of engineering design codes and standards. Responsible for planning, design and coordination activities, preparation of engineering reports, presentation of design reviews to clients, and preparation of technical and financial proposals and presentations for various potential infrastructure projects in the Middle East and Africa. Eng. Bou Diab has been involved in high profile projects that have provided him with a valuable experience in project management, Client liaison, project coordination, and marketing. He holds a Master of Engineering (Civil Engineering) from the American University of Beirut and a Diploma in Civil Engineering from the Lebanese University. Currently, Eng. Firas Bou Diab work includes providing governments and private clients with comprehensive and sustainable design and development solutions for urban and infrastructure projects, always mindful of each project’s environmental, socio-economic, transportation and infrastructure context and its phasing and future opportunities. Eng. Firas Bou Diab was elected as a Board Member in the Order of Engineers and Architects, Beirut Lebanon in April 2018; specifically working on establishing the “Young Engineers Form” that aims to create an interactive relationship between OEA and young engineers by facilitating their integration in the OEA and providing them with a range of services that can help them transition smoothly into the labor market with a target of developing an ecosystem that nurtures and enables innovation in the engineering field. Eng. Firas Bou Diab has an active and enthusiastic involvement in alumni relations and services at the Worldwide Alumni Association of AUB (WAAAUB) and got elected in different capacities. He served as an elected Member of the Board of Directors for WAAAUB from 2013 till 2015, also been elected in other capacities: Chair of the Outreach Committee, Council Member At-Large, and Treasurer of the Engineering & Architecture Chapter. Eng. Firas Bou Diab was an Advisor to the President of Civic Organization for Citizen Safety (Safe Citizen) which is a nonpartisan nongovernmental association of volunteers that is united by their shared commitment to improve the safety of all Lebanese citizens and residents in areas that affect every aspect of their lives: food safety, water quality, prescription drugs, and air pollution. Eng. Firas Bou Diab has been elected Executive Vice-President of WFEO at the General Assembly in Shanghai, China, on 17 October 2025. François Lureau Treasurer François Lureau’s last position was chief executive of the ”Délégation Générale pour l’Armement” (DGA) by appointment of the French government from February 2004 to July 2008. Reporting directly to the French Minister for Defence, he was managing a 10 billions Euros per year investment budget in research, development and acquisition. Since 2008, he has been the chairman of EuroFLConsult a firm which he set up at that time, providing consulting services in the Aerospace and Defense sectors. Born in 1944, ”Ingénieur en Chef de l’Armement”, he holds degrees from ”Ecole Polytechnique” and ”Ecole Nationale Supérieure de l’Aéronautique”, as well as a master’s degree in economics and a Ph.D from the University of Stanford in California. He joined French arms procurement agency DGA in 1968. He held several different positions, in particular program director for the Tiger helicopter, developed jointly by France and Germany. A commissioned French air force pilot, headed the Equipment Group of GIFAS, the French aerospace industry trade association. His past positions include Director General of Thompson-CSF Airsys (1996-2000), CEO of Thalès Avionics (2000-2002), and CEO of the Defence Business Area of the Thales group (2002-2004). Previously he was CEO of the Group Aerospace Business Area for two years. François Lureau is also actively involved in higher education. He has been Board member of the Ecole Polytechnique Engineering school from 2004 to 2013. In June 2014 he was elected President of the French Engineering Society (IESF, a member of WFEO). François Lureau was previously Chair of the WFEO Nominations Committee and was elected to the position of Treasurer at the Federation’s General Assembly in San José, Costa Rica, in March 2022. Ashok Basa Internal Auditor Eng. Ashok Basa is a well-known structural engineer in India who has made immense contribution in the design and construction of bridges, hydraulic structures and rehabilitation of structures.1800 m long flyover, 2000 m long river bridge, 1400 m long railway bridge, rehabilitation of a century old 1400 m long railway bridge are some examples of his extensive works. Because of such wide experiences, he is a member of several important national code committees in India. In 2014 he was elected as President of the Institution of Engineers (India) which happens to be world’s largest multi-disciplinary engineering professional society having more than one million members. He was also the Chair of the Committee on Information, Communication and Technology of Federation of Engineering Institutions of Asia and Pacific (FEIAP) in 2014. Besides, he had prominent participation in the International Engineering Alliance (IEA) during 2014-2018. He had a long association with WFEO for about one and a half decade being actively involved in a number of capacities, such as a member of the Executive Council, member of Governance Committee, Finance Committee, STC Review Committee, Committee on Information and Communication, Advisor to President WFEO. He is also a member of Disaster Risk Management Committee, for more than a decade and was its Co-Chair. He was a speaker in the UN Science Technology and Innovation Forum in May 2022. As Chair of the Strategic Planning Committee for the periods 2022-2023 and 2023-2025, he was deeply involved in making the strategic plans for the visibility of WFEO. He was Executive Vice President at WFEO for the period 2022-2025 and is currently the Internal Auditor since the General Assembly held in Shanghai, on 17 October 2025. Moez Chakchouk Executive Director Moez Chakchouk, an engineer by training and holder of a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics, has held prominent leadership positions within the Tunisian Government, including Minister of Transport and Logistics, Chairman and CEO of the Tunisian Post, and head of the Tunisian Internet Agency. He also served as Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information at UNESCO (2018-2020), where he contributed in advancing policies on digital transformation, access to information, and innovation for sustainable development. Mr. Chakchouk became WFEO Executive Director on January 1, 2026.


--- [World Federation of Engineering Organizations] ---
This year, the main event will be held in Jakarta, hosted by our National Member for Indonesia, the Institution Engineers Indonesia (PII). You will find more information in wed2026.id and in worldengineeringday.net. The World Federation of Engineering Organizations (WFEO) is the global organization for the engineering profession. Founded in 1968, under the auspices of UNESCO, WFEO brings together national engineering institutions from some 100 nations and represents more than 30 million engineers. WFEO President Events Calendar K.N. Gunalan Congratulations to K.N. Gunalan (Guna) who has been Elected on 17 October 2025 President-Elect at the WFEO General Assembly which has been held in Shanghai, China. More information in this page. Latest News WFEO Committee on Women in Engineering – “Empowering Women Engineers AI-Driven Innovation and Entrepreneurship” The WFEO Committee on Women in Engineering (WIE) organized the webinar “Empowering Women Engineers AI-Driven Innovatio... WFEO participation in the 69th IAEA General Conference As chair of the WFEO Committee on Energy, Marie-Line Vaiani, Secretary General of World Energy Council France, represent... WFEO Participation in CILAC 2024 – San Andres Island, Colombia Under the visionary leadership of Eng. Mustafa B. Shehu, President of the World Federation of Engineering Organizations... WFEO participation at the United Nations Industrial Development Board Marie-Line Vaiani, Chair of the WFEO Committee on Energy, Secretary General of the French Energy Council and member of t...


--- [World Federation of Engineering Organizations - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Dato' Ir. (Dr.) Lee Yee CheongISTIC-UNESCO] ---
Academician Dato’ Ir. (Dr.) Lee Yee Cheong, BE Hons (Adelaide), Hon. Doc Eng (UNITEN), DPMP, KMN, AO, Dato’ Lee is the Honorary Chairman, Governing Council, International Science Technology and Innovation Centre for South-South Cooperation under the auspices of UNESCO (ISTIC), Kuala Lumpur; Member of the National Science and Research Council, Malaysia; Pro-Chancellor, Infrastructure University Kuala Lumpur; Chairman Global Council InterAcademy Partnership (IAP) Science Education Program; former Chairman of Governing Board, the Institute of Energy Policy and Research (IEPRe), Energy University Malaysia (UNITEN); Adjunct Professor of UNITEN; Advisor to MIGHT International; Member of Global Science Innovation Advisory Council (GSIAC); Vice Chairman, UN Sustainable Development Solution Network (SDSN) Malaysia; Patron of the International Young Professionals Foundation; former Member of the International Advisory Board of “Engineers Without Borders” Canada; Director of Malaysia Australia Foundation ; Member of International Committee, LAMAP Fondation France; Member of S&T Committee, CARICOM Science Foundation; Member of Jury, OECD DAC Innovation Prize. He was President and now Distinguished Honorary Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Malaysia; Chairman and now Honorary President of Commonwealth Engineers Council (CEC); President of the World Federation of Engineering Organisations (WFEO) 2003-2005; He represented WFEO as Co-chair of the “International Science and Technology Community” Major Group of UN Commission on Sustainable Development 2000-2006 and attended UN World Summit on Sustainable Development Johannesburg 2002 and World Summit on Information Societies Tunis 2005. He was Co-chair of Task Force “Science, Technology and Innovation” of the United Nations Millennium Project 2002-2005; Senior Advisor UN Global Alliance of ICT for Development (GAID) 2006-2010; former Member of the Board of Trustees of Engineers Against Poverty, U.K; Member of the International Commission for Education for Sustainable Development Practice, Earth Institute, Columbia University 2006-2008; former Member of International Advisory Board of Grand Challenges Canada and former Member of the National Economic and Social Council Kenya. He served with the National Electricity Board, 1961-1979. He was project director of the real time computer controlled National Load Despatch Centre project. He then founded and was CEO of Tenaga Ewbank Preece and later KTA Tenaga 1980-2002. He became a Partner of Ewbank Preece Consulting Group, UK; He was a Board Director of UMW Holdings Berhad 2000-2008; and a Commissioner of the Energy Commission of Malaysia 2005-2009; He is founding Secretary General and Senior Fellow of the Academy of Sciences Malaysia; the founder President of the ASEAN Academy of Engineering and Technology; Foreign Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering; and a Corresponding Member of the Pan-American Academy of Engineering. He served as a founding Board member of the InterAcademy Council (IAC) of the world’s scientific academies 2001-2004. He served as Special Advisor to IAC Co-Chair on Sustainable Energy 2008-2009 and Advisor to the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation Malaysia 2006-2007. He was Co-author of the UN Millennium Project Science Technology and Innovation Task Force Study Report “Innovation: Applying Knowledge in Development”, 2005. He published his autobiography “Think Malaysia, Act Global” September 2010. He was awarded the UN Office for South-South Cooperation 2014 Triangular Visionary Leadership Award; the Jiang YoungSil Grand International Science and Culture Prize, Korea; the Malaysian State Awards of DPMP and KMN for services to engineering and the Honorary Officer in the Order of Australia (AO).
