=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Two Oceans Marathon History & Preview - MarathonGuide.com]
Feb 10, 2025 · The Two Oceans Marathon by Riel Hauman, author of Century of the Marathon: 1896-1996 The First Two Oceans Table Mountain, the world famous landmark at the southern tip of Africa, towered above the 26 runners as they set off on their 35-mile-or-thereabouts trek along the mountain chain forming the spine of the Cape Peninsula. The early Portuguese seafarers called the region the Cape of Good ...
URL: https://www.marathonguide.com/news/exclusives/twooceans_000417_2.cfm

[Two Oceans Marathon - Wikipedia]
The Two Oceans Marathon is a 56 kilometres (35 mi) ultramarathon and 21 kilometres (13 mi) half-marathon held annually in Cape Town, South Africa with the ultramarathon held on a Saturday in April and the half marathon held the next day on the Sunday.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two_Oceans_Marathon

[Two Oceans Marathon - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help]
Zaian The Two Oceans Marathon is a footrace that is held every year in Cape Town, South Africa. It is actually an ultramarathon, because the distance it covers—34.8 miles (56 kilometers)—is longer than an ordinary marathon. The name of the race refers to South Africa 's position on the shores of the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The race begins in Newlands, a suburb of Cape Town. The route ...
URL: https://kids.britannica.com/students/article/Two-Oceans-Marathon/610201

[50 years of the Two Oceans: a few milestones in the marathon's history]
Apr 20, 2019 · In half a century, nearly 85,000 people have run the ultramarathon that is synonymous with Easter in Cape Town. To mark the 50th race, the documentary film Run as One had its premiere this week alongside the launch of Celebrating 50 Years of the Two Oceans Marathon: the world's most beautiful marathon, 1970 to 2019.
URL: https://www.sundaytimes.timeslive.co.za/sunday-times/sport/2019-04-21-50-years-of-the-two-oceans-a-few-milestones-in-the-marathons-history/

[Venter's Visionary Race - Modern Athlete]
Jun 14, 2023 — The Totalsports Two Oceans Marathon was first run in 1970, and there is an interesting story behind that first edition of what is now one of ...
URL: https://modernathlete.co.za/2023/06/venters-visionary-race/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Two Oceans Marathon History & Preview - MarathonGuide.com] ---
No content


--- [Two Oceans Marathon - Wikipedia] ---
The Two Oceans Marathon is a 56 kilometres (35 mi) ultramarathon and 21 kilometres (13 mi) half-marathon held annually in Cape Town, South Africa with the ultramarathon held on a Saturday in April and the half marathon held the next day on the Sunday. It was previously held on Easter weekend.
Described as "the world's most beautiful marathon", the race is run against a backdrop of spectacular scenery through the Cape Peninsula.
Both races start in Newlands.  The Ultra Marathon follows a more or less circular route through Muizenberg, Fish Hoek, over Chapman's Peak, through Hout Bay and Constantia Nek, and eventually finishes at the University of Cape Town campus. On occasions when Chapman's Peak Drive has been closed due to construction or rock falls, the Ultra Marathon has followed an alternative route over Ou Kaapse Weg.
The Half Marathon takes runners along Edinburgh Drive (the M3 highway), before turning into forest roads past Kirstenbosch and finishing at the University of Cape Town campus.
Since its inaugural edition in 1970, the event has grown. Selling out every year, the Half Marathon sees some 16,000 participants (making it the biggest half marathon in South Africa), while 11,000 athletes tackle the 56 km Ultra Marathon.
In addition to the main events, other events take place:

Approximately 6 000 runners - including toddlers and young children with their families - take part in various fun runs
Approximately 1 000 trail runners traverse the trails of the Table Mountain National Park
International participants get to run a scenic 5 km route along the Sea Point promenade as part of the International Friendship Run
The 2020 and 2021 editions of the race were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.


--- [Two Oceans Marathon - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help] ---
The Two Oceans Marathon is a footrace that is held every year in Cape Town, South Africa. It is actually an ultramarathon, because the distance it covers—34.8 miles (56 kilometers)—is longer than an ordinary marathon. The name of the race refers to South Africa’s position on the shores of the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The race begins in Newlands, a suburb of Cape Town. The route loops around the Cape Peninsula. It ends at the University of Cape Town. The Two Oceans Marathon began as a training run for the Comrades Marathon, another South African ultramarathon race. Only 26 athletes took part in the first running, on May 2, 1970. In 1972 the race was named the Two Oceans Marathon. The 1976 winner, Gabashane Vincent Rakabaele, was the first black athlete to win an ultramarathon in South Africa. By the early 2000s, several thousand athletes were running in the Two Oceans Marathon each year. Several men and women have won the Two Oceans Marathon three or four times.


--- [50 years of the Two Oceans: a few milestones in the marathon's history] ---
On May 2 1970, the first Two Oceans marathon began with the wave of a handkerchief and a 50c entry fee. Of the 24 runners who started, 15 crossed the finishing line. Dirkie Steyn won, running 56km barefoot in just under four hours. In the pre-dawn dark Saturday, close to 13,000 runners lined up waiting for the fish-horn to blow, followed by the starting gun. In half a century, nearly 85,000 people have run the ultramarathon that is synonymous with Easter in Cape Town. To mark the 50th race, the documentary film Run as One had its premiere this week alongside the launch of Celebrating 50 Years of the Two Oceans Marathon: the world's most beautiful marathon, 1970 to 2019. This commemorative coffee-table book celebrates the race's spectacular history, its highlights, its heroes and a dog called Roo. In 1975, the organisers obtained approval for runners of all races to compete. In 1976, Gabashane Vincent Rakabaele from Lesotho became the first black man to win the race, which he did again in 1979. In 1985, Siphiwe Gqele became the first man to win for three consecutive years. Two Oceans broke down barriers, said 1986 winner Thulani Sibisi. "In running we were all brothers, even in the days of apartheid." Thompson Magawana set the men's record (3:03:44) on the original route in 1988, after smashing the previous record in 1987. My 1987 run was very special. I was behind Thompson Magawana - who won that year and the next and set the race record - and in front of Gabashane Vincent Rakabaele, the first black runner to win Two Oceans. It was an honour to run between them. — Thulani Sibisi, 1986 winner After one woman ran unofficially in 1974, missing the cut-off, women were officially allowed to enter in 1975 and Ulla Paul was the first woman to get a number and finish. The female record on the original route, set by Frith van der Merwe (3:30:36), has been unbeaten for 30 years. As she charged up Chapman's Peak in 1989, Van der Merwe joked with the cyclist struggling to follow her: "Do you want a push?" Blanche Moila, the first black female athlete to be awarded Springbok colours, said not even slipping in the mud at the finish line could dampen the high spirits of this race. "It brought out the child in me. We were all in it together," said Moila, 63, who is running her 15th Comrades marathon this year. Moila and Van der Merwe both said that the cheering of spectators and dazzling route made Two Oceans special. But this world-famous race got off to a slow start. When Dave Venter - who had relocated from Durban and wanted a 35-mile training run for the Comrades - first approached a Cape Town running club and the athletics association about starting it, they said no. Undeterred, he got support by 1970. In 1972, the Two Oceans got its name. A thousand runners entered the third race by 1979. Now the Two Oceans festivities over Easter include a tough half-marathon that attracts 16,000 entries, two trail runs, fun runs and even a nappy run. Cape Town resident Gavin Williams said the Two Oceans is the reason he and his family never leave town over the Easter holidays. He has run 15 full ultramarathons and will be doing his eighth half- marathon this year. His son and daughter participate in the trails and fun runs. The event raises millions for some 80 charities and hundreds of millions flow into the city from visitors. "Two Oceans is the rock 'n' roll of ultras. The next day you're alive and can limp onto a wine farm," said nine-time Comrades winner Bruce Fordyce, who ran it year after year as a training run for the 90km ultra, setting the pace for silver medal runners and winning nine in 11 years. He remembers Two Oceans in the '70s as an insignificant race that none of the Johannesburg runners could be bothered with, but that changed once they ran it. "Then it was hard not to come back. Few races can rival going over Chapman's Peak." Fordyce has run as one segment of a six-man shongololo (millipede) to raise funds. Others have done even more bizarre things for charity: one completed the race in a rhino suit; another man ran all 56km backwards to promote bee conservation. After 1994, international competitors surged in from more than 70 countries. Russia ruled the women's race from 2002 to 2014. The Nurgalieva twins got seven wins between them. The crowds went wild when South African Caroline Wöstmann triumphed in 2015. Ann Margolin and Lucille Damon are women stalwarts with 29 medals each. Tony Abrahamson, now a lithe 69-year-old, and his foxhound Roo were an exceptional team: she finished five Two Oceans to his 43. Dogs are no longer allowed because of the large number of entries. "Roo would howl at the beginning with the gun and run ahead of the frontrunners, then wait at the 5km stop for me to catch up," said Abrahamson. "She was very good with runners and traffic. She trained with me for 15 years. She would pull at my blankets early in the morning to get me out." In 1978, Abrahamson was away and Roo was staying with a friend at St James, along the route. During the race she jumped the fence and ran almost half the race to the end, where race director Chet Sainsbury recognised her. Sainsbury and his wife, Annemarie, were driving forces behind Two Oceans for nearly three decades. The 2016 Two Oceans was dedicated to him after he died from cancer. Another Two Oceans icon is announcer Harold Berman, who has been at the finish line since the early years of the race. "He is very good at remembering names and faces," said Sibisi, who has crossed the line many times. "I do not think any other announcer has done a job for so long. Harold is my special friend." • Celebrating 50 Years of the Two Oceans Marathon (R150) can be ordered from Webtickets


--- [Venter's Visionary Race - Modern Athlete] ---
The Totalsports Two Oceans Marathon was first run in 1970, and there is an interesting story behind that first edition of what is now one of the biggest and most internationally renowned races in South Africa. – By Sean Falconer The fledgling idea for the Two Oceans Marathon was born in the late 1960s when former Durban-based runner Dave Venter was transferred to Cape Town by his then employers, BP Southern Africa. To his great disappointment, Venter found that running in the Cape was very much behind Durban, where the 90km Comrades Marathon had been on the calendar since 1921. He had been a keen member of Savages Athletic Club and had run his first Comrades in 1967, just a year after starting to run at age 36, but in the Cape in 1968, there were only a handful of marathons to choose from and no ultra-marathons. Venter ran the Stellenbosch Marathon, which only had about 20 entrants, and then had to wait several months for the Western Province Marathon in Bellville, which attracted a mere five entrants. Shortly after this, he took two months’ leave and returned to Natal to run his second Comrades, as well as the Bergville/Ladysmith Ultra. He was actually playing with the idea of asking BP for a transfer back to Natal, but after discussing it with former clubmate Gerry Treloar of Savages, he decided to give the Cape another chance. This after Treloar said, “Now that you’re there, why don’t you try and improve long-distance running in Cape Town?” That convinced Venter to try to start an ultra with a similar distance to the Bergville/Ladysmith, around 35 miles, as he reasoned that runners in Cape Town planning to run the Comrades would enter it as a training run. However, when he took the idea to Celtic Harriers, the club committee said they didn’t feel there was any need for such a race in Cape Town. The Western Province Amateur Athletic Association (WPAAA) also turned the idea down, but help was at hand. Through Celtic Harriers secretary Harold Berman, Dave was introduced to The Argus sports reporter Bryan Grieve, who lent his public support to the idea. At the same time, Stewart Banner was elected chairman of the WPAAA, and he too gave a favourable response, so Venter decided to try again. He went back to Celtic Harriers and said if the club would give him its backing, he would take care of all arrangements and ensure the club was not involved in any way. Convincing the Doubters With that agreement in place, Venter attended a WPAAA committee meeting in late 1969, and after a heated debate, he was finally given permission to hold the race on 2 May 1970 – just one week after the Peninsula Marathon, in spite of the small number of long distance races on the calendar at that time. Interestingly, the most outspoken critic of the idea was journalist and statistician Harry Beinart, who said he did not see the point of a 35-mile event! Meanwhile, the WPAAA said the race should take place in May, at the end of the track and field season, so as not to impact other events on the calendar, and added one further strict condition: The race should not interfere with the cross country event scheduled for that afternoon – and Celtic Harriers echoed this condition! With that hurdle out the way, Venter had an easy decision to make. His favourite training route ran through Muizenberg, Fish Hoek and Noordhoek, over Chapman’s Peak Drive, through Hout Bay, up Constantia Nek Drive and Rhodes Drive, down past Kirstenbosch, offering an incredibly scenic route measuring the approximate distance he was looking for, so the choice of route was simple. He also found a suitable venue for the start and finish by asking BP if he could use their Impala Park grounds in Newlands, and BP donated a floating trophy for the winner. Getting to the Start Line The race flyer for the first Celtic 35 Mile Road Race duly went out, with extra emphasis on this being a perfect training run for those planning to run the Comrades. The entry fee was set at 50 cents, with entries closing on 29 April. Runners would need to supply their own seconds to compliment the sponges and drinks available at the 10, 20 and 30-mile markers, where timekeepers would be stationed to record each runner’s progress. The top three finishers would receive prizes, thanks to Venter donating some of the prizes he’d won in Durban, and he also contributed another R6 in order to buy a few extra awards. Race day arrived, with a small but intrepid group of 24 runners lining up on a wet, blustery morning in Newlands. Dirkie Steyn would go on to win that first edition of the race, in 3:55:50 – and remarkably, he ran the entire race barefoot! It was the start of 50-plus years of incredible running around the Cape Peninsula, and out of that first, small race was to grow one of the biggest running events on the South African calendar.
