=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia - Wikipedia]
Composition The Supreme Court of Bolivia was composed of 12 ministers (judges) who served 10-year terms after election by the National Congress. In 1827, Manuel María Urcullo became the first President of the Supreme Court of Bolivia. [6] He was joined by Ministers (Judges) Mariano Guzmán, Juan de la Cruz Monje y Ortega, and Casimiro Olañeta.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supreme_Court_of_Justice_of_Bolivia

[Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia explained]
Composition The Supreme Court of Bolivia was composed of 12 ministers (judges) who served 10-year terms after election by the National Congress. In 1827, Manuel María Urcullo became the first President of the Supreme Court of Bolivia. [6] He was joined by Ministers (Judges) Mariano Guzmán, Juan de la Cruz Monje y Ortega, and Casimiro Olañeta.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Supreme_Court_of_Bolivia/

[List of presidents of Bolivia]
65 men and 2 women have served as president. The first president, Simón Bolívar, was elected by the General Assembly of Deputies of the Province of Upper Peru.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_Bolivia

[Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia - WIKI 2]
Composition The Supreme Court of Bolivia was composed of 12 ministers (judges) who served 10-year terms after election by the National Congress. In 1827, Manuel María Urcullo became the first President of the Supreme Court of Bolivia. [6] He was joined by Ministers (Judges) Mariano Guzmán, Juan de la Cruz Monje y Ortega, and Casimiro Olañeta.
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/Supreme_Court_of_Justice_of_Bolivia

[Constitutional history of Bolivia]
It has a presidential system of government with an executive headed by Evo Morales, first President o indigenous origins. Legislative power is vested in a two ...
URL: https://constitutionnet.org/country/constitutional-history-bolivia


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia - Wikipedia] ---
The Supreme Court of Bolivia (Spanish: Corte Suprema de Justicia de Bolivia) was Bolivia's highest court from 1825 to 2012. It was located in Sucre, 410 kilometres to the south-east of La Paz, Bolivia's capital. The Court was created by the Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) of April 27, 1825, which transformed the Royal Audience of Charcas (Audiencia y Cancillería Real de La Plata de los Charcas) of imperial Spain into the Supreme Court of the newly independent country. The Supreme Court of Bolivia was officially inaugurated on July 16, 1827.


--- [Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia explained] ---
No content


--- [List of presidents of Bolivia] ---
The president of Bolivia is the head of state and head of government of Bolivia, directly elected to a five-year term by the Bolivian people. The officeholder leads the executive branch of the government and is the captain general of the Armed Forces of Bolivia.
Since the office was established in 1825, 65 men and 2 women have served as president. The first president, Simón Bolívar, was elected by the General Assembly of Deputies of the Province of Upper Peru. For purposes of numbering, members of jointly-ruling juntas and other governing bodies are not included in the official count of presidents, unless one member later assumed the presidency in their own right. Three presidents: Antonio José de Sucre, Germán Busch, and Hernán Siles Zuazo became, after a brief, non-consecutive, interim exercise of power, presidents for longer terms later. In these cases, they are numbered according to that second term. Therefore, Busch is counted as the 36th president, not the 35th, Siles Zuazo as the 46th instead of the 45th, etc.
The presidency of Pedro Blanco Soto, who was assassinated six days after taking office in 1828, was the shortest in Bolivian history. Evo Morales served the longest, over thirteen years, before resigning in 2019. He is the only president to have served more than two consecutive terms. José Miguel de Velasco and Víctor Paz Estenssoro each served for four terms. However, all of Velasco's were non-consecutive and two were in an acting capacity while Paz Estenssoro only served twice consecutively in 1960 and 1964.
Three presidents died in office, one of natural causes and two through tragic circumstances (Adolfo Ballivián, Germán Busch, and René Barrientos). Three were assassinated (Pedro Blanco Soto, Agustín Morales, and Gualberto Villarroel). The latter resigned mere hours before his death. Additionally, Manuel Antonio Sánchez and Pedro José de Guerra died of natural causes while exercising provisional presidential functions while eight former presidents were assassinated after leaving office (Antonio José de Sucre, Eusebio Guilarte, Manuel Isidoro Belzu, Jorge Córdova, Mariano Melgarejo, Hilarión Daza, José Manuel Pando, and Juan José Torres).
Five vice presidents assumed the presidency during a presidential term (José Luis Tejada Sorzano, Mamerto Urriolagoitía, Luis Adolfo Siles Salinas, Jorge Quiroga, and Carlos Mesa). Tejada Sorzano was the first to do so in 1934 while Quiroga was the only one to complete the term of their predecessor (Tejada Sorzano extended his mandate past the term of his predecessor).
22 presidents were deposed in 23 coups d'état (1839, 1841; twice, 1848; twice, 1857, 1861, 1864, 1871, 1876, 1879, 1920, 1936, 1937, 1943, 1964, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1978; twice, 1979, and 1980). Velasco was deposed twice in 1841 and December 1848. Additionally, the Council of Ministers of Hernando Siles Reyes was deposed in 1930. Three presidents were deposed by a civil war, a popular uprising, and a revolution. Transmissions of command from one de facto government to another de facto government occurred in seven cases (1841, 1946, 1965, 1966, 1981; twice, and 1982). Two special cases occurred in 1939 when Carlos Quintanilla was installed by the military after the death of Germán Busch and in 1951 when President Mamerto Urriolagoitía resigned in a self-coup in favor of a military junta. Two unconstitutional successions occurred in 1930 when Hernando Siles Reyes entrusted command to his council of ministers and 1934 when Daniel Salamanca was ousted in favor of his vice president, José Luis Tejada Sorzano. Finally, some supporters of Evo Morales claim that he was ousted by a coup d'état and that the presidency of Jeanine Áñez was an unconstitutional succession of power. However, this is disputed.
There are seven living former presidents. The most recent to die was Luis García Meza, on 29 April 2018.
Víctor Paz Estenssoro, Jaime Paz Zamora and Rodrigo Paz Pereira are related.


--- [Supreme Court of Justice of Bolivia - WIKI 2] ---
No content


--- [Constitutional history of Bolivia] ---
The Plurinational State of Bolivia as it is officially called is a Central South American country of an estimated 9 million people bordered by Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina, Peru and Chile. It was previously part of the Inca Empire – the largest state in Pre Columbian America before European colonization and the Spanish conquest Political system and history Following independence from Spain in 1809, Bolivia experienced 16 years of war before the establishment of the republic, named after Simón Bolivar on August 6, 1825. Much of its subsequent history consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups, often pitting indigenous workers, such as miners and farmers, against the wealthy descendants of the European colonialists. It has a presidential system of government with an executive headed by Evo Morales, first President o indigenous origins. Legislative power is vested in a two tier chamber and judicial power rests with a Supreme Court of Justice and other lower courts. Constitutional history and development The 1825 Constitution Bolivia’s constitutional history can be traced back to the first Constituent Assembly that founded Bolivia in 1825 and wrote its first constitution. The 1825 constitution established a centralized government with executive, legislative, and judicial branches based on the United States model. The Constitution also borrowed a few premises from the French Republic, reflected in a charter that adopted liberal and representative democracy, and granting the congress autonomy and policy-making prerogatives. This constitution, however, was never adopted. The 1826 Constitution In November 1826, anew constitution, written by Simón Bolívar Palacio, replaced the original document. Key features of the Bolivarian constitution distinguished it from the original document in that it established a fourfold separation of powers among a lifetime presidency, an independent judiciary, a tricameral congress, and an electoral body. The constitution also extended the franchise only to property owners and persons with some remunerative business or studying the arts or science. The tricameral congress comprised the Senate and the Chamber of Tribunes, whose members had fixed terms, as well as a Chamber of Censors, whose members served for life. The Senate was, in theory, responsible for codifying laws and reorienting church and court officials. The Chamber of Tribunes possessed general legislative powers while the Chamber of Censors had oversight powers including the power to impeach members of the executive. In practice, however, the legislature's key functions were to name the president and to approve a list of successors submitted by the president. One of the lasting achievements of the Bolivarian constitution was the establishment of an executive-based system. It reflected the Spanish tradition of bureaucratic patrimonialism in which power rested with the executive as well as Simon Bolivar’s unease with mob rule. Most importantly, it also reflected his distrust for of the privileged elite who inherited Upper (Alto) Peru from Spain. Bolívar feared that rival elite factions would wage battle against each other for control over the new nation and became convinced that the best way to prevent instability and chaos was to institutionalize a strong, centralized, and lifetime presidency. The 1831 Constitution and the 1836 Constitution of the Peru Bolivian Confederation Due to disparities between the national aspirations of the state and its effective power over Bolivia's disparate regions and population, the Bolivarian constitution did not last long. Between 1825 and 1880, Bolivian political life was dominated by a series of quasi- military leaders, known as caudillos, which had emerged when the Spanish Empire collapsed. Within the context of economic crisis, warring caudillos, and a semifeudal social structure, constitutions and the national government became prizes to be captured by one or another caudillo. In August 1831, a new constitution was adopted under the presidency of General Andrés de Santa Cruz y Calahumana. This constitution introduced bicameralism, dividing the body between the Chamber of Senators (Senate) and the Chamber of Deputies elected by proportional representation. It also abolished the life presidency and limited the presidential mandate to renewable four year terms. Despite these limitations, presidential power actually increased during the presidency of Santa Cruz, and the trend toward greater concentration of power in the executive continued throughout Bolivia's history. Following the formation of the Peru Bolivian Confederation, after the a successful invasion of Peru by Bolivia in 1836, a new constitution which mostly reflected the 1831 constitution, was adopted and enforced between 1836 and 1839. With the dissolution of the confederation shortly after, executive power was reinforced and institutionalized. The Constitutional revisions between 1839 and 1880 The caudillos dominated Bolivian political life over the next 42 years dictating new cosntitutional charters almost as regularly as changes of government occurred. Between 1839 and 1880, six constitutions were approved by the legislative power. Except for the constitution of 1839, which limited presidential power, the constitutions promulgated under José Ballivián y Segurola (1843), Manuel Isidoro Belzú Humérez (1851), José María Achá Valiente (1861), Mariano Melgarejo Valencia (1868), and Agustín Morales Hernández (1871) further concentrated power in the hands of the executive. As a rule, during this era, Congress responded to the demands of whatever caudillo was in power. The Constitution of 1880 Following the defeat of Bolivia by Chile in the War of the Pacific from 1879 to1880, a new constitution - Bolivia’s most durable constitution was adopted. Key features of this constitution were the reinforcement and full adoption of bicameralism and the legislature becoming the centre for political debate. During this period, Bolivia achieved a functioning constitutional order complete with political parties, interest groups, and an active legislature and became the model for democracy as congressional oversight over executive behaviour were introduced and institutionalised by law in 1884. The Constitutional Reforms of 1935 and 1947 With the overthrow of President Daniel Salamanca Urey and the global economic depression of the 1930s which heralded the end of the tin export boom which had characterised the previous years, Bolivia’s political honeymoon suddenly ceased. Between 1935 and 1952, middle-class reformist efforts converged into populist movements led by both military officers and middle-class civilian intellectuals. Under Colonel Germán Busch Becerra, a constituent assembly approved reforms in 1938 that were designed to have a lasting and profound impact on Bolivian society. Bolivia's constitution was again reformed in 1944 during the presidency of Colonel Gualberto Villarroel López , another populist reformer. Key features included voting rights for women, but only in municipal elections, and the establishment of presidential and vice presidential terms of six years without immediate reelection. In 1947 a new constitution reduced the presidential term to four years and increased the powers of the Senate following the assassination of Villarroel. The 1952 Revolution and the 1961 Constitution In 1952, a Bolshevik type revolution launched by the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement (Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionario-MNR) with support from peasants, alliance of workers and some middle class defeated the anti nationalist forces of mining oligarchies. Though credited for fundamentally transforming Bolivian Society in that it gave indigenous people the right to vote, guaranteed a collective society and introduced land reforms, the revolution never fully established a new political order, and was considered incomplete. It would not be until 1961 through the adoption of a new constitution that the gains of this revolution will be institutionalised. Key in the 1961 constitution was the adoption of universal suffrage, agrarian reforms and the nationalisation of mines. The 1967 Constitution In 1966, General René Barrientos Ortuño overthrew the MNR heralding a new phase in Bolivian constitutional development. After calling elections in 1966 and invoking the 1947 constitution, Barrientos attempted to force through Congress a new charter. Because he sought democratic legitimacy, however, he was forced to give up his original project in favor of a constitution rooted firmly in the liberal democratic tradition that had inspired the authors of the 1880 charter. This was the 1967 constitution under which Bolivia was to remain a unitary republic that retains that character of a representative democracy. The people retained inalienable sovereign power the exercise of which was delegated the legislative, executive, and judicial powers. Cumulating executive judicial and legislative power was prohibited. Freedom of worship was recognized, though Roman Catholicism was institutionalized as the official state religion. With the overthrow of the civilian regime by General Alfredo Ovando Candia in 1970 however, this constitution was hardly enforced, neither by him nor by any of the successive military regimes that ruled Bolivia thereafter. The 1994 Constitutional Amendments After a period characterized by a mixture of successive civilian regimes and military coups with a checkered pattern of constitutional rule, the 1967 constitution was again substantially amended in 1994. The 1994 amendments maintained the republican character of the state and provided for balanced executive, legislative, and judicial powers. Congress retained the role to debate and approve legislation initiated by the executive. Judicial power remained in a Supreme Court and other departmental and lower courts. These amendments also extended the experiment with democratic governance introduced in previous constitutions by allowing local populations to elect their own local governments and popular assemblies The 2006 Constitutional Process and the 2009 Constitution In 2005, the leader of the Movement for Socialism (MAS), Evo Morales, won the general elections to become the first indigenous president of Bolivia. One of his campaign promises was to convene a new constituent assembly. The assembly was to draft a new charter that would end social injustice and inequality especially amongst the indigenous people. In August 2006, a constituent assembly was established. By 2007, it had prepared a draft constitution that was approved by the National Congress amidst political disagreements that almost derailed the process in 2008. The draft was finally approved in a Constitutional Referendum in 2009. Key features of the new constitution include recall provisions for all elected public officials, nationalization of certain economic sectors such as the gas industry, decentralization of power with four levels of autonomy (departmental, municipal, indigenous and regional), and the importance of ethnicity in Bolivia’s make up is re –emphasized through a whole chapter devoted to it. Key timelines of the 2006 Constitutional Process | December 2005 | Evo Morales (MAS) is elected President on a campaign platform to convene a Constituent Assembly to re write the constitution | | July 2 2006 | Constituent Assembly is elected to collect views and prepare draft | | December 9 2007 | Draft Constitution prepared by the constituent Assembly is approved | | December 14 2007 | Approved draft constitution is handed over to national Congress | | February 28 2008 | National Congress approves the draft and schedules a referendum for May 4 2008 | | March 8 2008 | National Electoral Court suspends referendum on grounds of inadequate preparation | | August 28 2008 | Evo Morales issues a presidential decree convoking the electorate to a referendum on December 7 2008 amidst political violence and unrest | | October 20 2008 | Government and opposition hold talks which resulted in a compromise for the date of the referendum in 2009 | | January 25 2009 | Draft Constitution is approved in a referendum with 64.43 percent voting yes | | February 7 2009 | Morales promulgates the constitution into law | | Branch | Hierarchy | Powers | Removal | |---|
