=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[J.C. Leyendecker Archives | The Saturday Evening Post]
In early 1896, the artist won a magazine cover competition for Century Magazine, which elevated his artistic brand to national fame. By autumn, J.C. and his brother Frank had enrolled at the Académie Julian in Paris, France.
URL: https://www.saturdayeveningpost.com/artists/j-c-leyendecker/

[J. C. Leyendecker - Wikipedia]
J. C. Leyendecker ... Joseph Christian Leyendecker (March 23, 1874 – July 25, 1951) was one of the most prominent and financially successful freelance commercial artists in the United States. He was active between 1895 and 1951 producing drawings and paintings for hundreds of posters, books, advertisements, and magazine covers and stories.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._C._Leyendecker

[The Century. August (1896) by J. C. Leyendecker – Artchive]
The artwork, “The Century. August,” painted by J. C. Leyendecker in 1896, is a fine example of the Art Nouveau (Modern) movement and falls under the genre of design. This piece was created for “The Century Magazine” as the cover for its August issue, which focused on the midsummer holiday season. The artwork features a prominent female figure dressed in a flowing white garment adorned ...
URL: https://www.artchive.com/artwork/the-century-august-j-c-leyendecker-1896/

[J.C. Leyendecker Client List — Leyendecker Santa]
J. C. LEYENDECKER 1874-1951 (A PARTIAL CLIENT LIST) MAGAZINE COVERS & INTERIOR ILLUSTRATIONS Engravings in Line & Halftone (produced by Manz Engraving – 1894) Century Magazine – winner of cover (design) competition: 1896 (700 entries) E. A. Weeks (Chicago publisher) over 100 book covers (1893-1896) Carter’s Monthly Magazine Saturday Evening Post - 322 covers (one more than Norman ...
URL: https://www.leyendeckersanta.com/jc-leyendecker-client-list

[J.C. Leyendecker – Babajanyan Art Academy]
By age 19, Manz & Co. had given Leyendecker a solo contract to illustrate sixty images for a client’s private bible, demonstrating utmost faith in his artistic abilities. In early 1896, the artist won a magazine cover competition for Century Magazine, which elevated his artistic brand to national fame.
URL: https://babajanyanart.com/reference-images-jcleyendecker/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [J.C. Leyendecker Archives | The Saturday Evening Post] ---
While those familiar with The Saturday Evening Post often think of Norman Rockwell as its most prominent illustrator, his mentor, Joseph Christian Leyendecker, made the Post an iconic magazine. Through his illustrious career as a popular cover artist, The Post rang in the early twentieth century with dozens of J.C. Leyendecker’s babies, advertisements, and holiday illustrations. Born to Peter and Elizabeth Leyendecker in Montabaur, Germany on March 23rd, 1874, “J.C.” Leyendecker emigrated from Germany to Chicago, Illinois with his family in 1882 at the age of 8. His close relationships with his two brothers, Francis Xavier and Adolph, along with sister Mary Augusta, would later impact the adorable infant and adolescent depictions of his most famous illustrations. Having a natural talent for art, Leyendecker and his brother, Frank, studied and worked together on small projects wherever they could find them. At the age of 15, Leyendecker apprenticed with J. Manz & Co. Engraving in Chicago. He learned quickly, rising to a job as Associate Illustrator under his Chicago Art Institute instructor, John Henry Vanderpool. Vanderpool had studied, researched, and even published a book on human anatomy, passing on to Leyendecker much of what artistic anatomical knowledge was available at the time. By age 19, Manz & Co. had given Leyendecker a solo contract to illustrate sixty images for a client’s private bible, demonstrating utmost faith in his artistic abilities. In early 1896, the artist won a magazine cover competition for Century Magazine, which elevated his artistic brand to national fame. By autumn, J.C. and his brother Frank had enrolled at the Académie Julian in Paris, France. J.C. Leyendecker quickly rose to prominence while in Europe, earning a spot in a major painting exhibition at The Salon Champs de Mars in 1897. The brothers returned to Chicago in 1898 and together opened a studio for two years before moving their firm to New York City in 1900. Over the course of his artistic career, Leyendecker completed 322 illustrations for The Saturday Evening Post and countless others for magazines such as The American Weekly, Success, and Collier’s. Not only did the artist work for magazines, he also created some of the most successful advertising campaigns in American history. His ingenuity led to serial popularity, whether by the continuation of his New Year’s Baby theme for The Post as started in the magazine’s December 29th, 1906 edition, or his invention of the debonair Arrow Collar Man while working for Cluett, Peabody & Co. in 1905. His work for Arrow Collar single-handedly increased the company’s sales to $32 million a year, making it the nation’s most successful men’s clothing company. Leyendecker’s strong models defined manhood for an entire generation. His artistic reach knew no bounds. His famed illustrative depictions range from calendar holidays to collectable artwork of cherubim babies, relatable American life, and sports and war heroes. In some ways, Leyendecker happened to be a trained artist in the right place, at the right time. His work brought him financial success and international notoriety during the golden age of American illustration. In 1914, he built a home in New Rochelle, New York where he lived with his brother Frank, sister Mary, and the original Arrow Collar model Charles A. Beach. Beach lived in the house as Leyendecker’s live-in secretary, business manager, and partner. J.C.’s brother Frank eventually moved out of the house in the early 1920s (possibly due to jealousy over his brother’s fame) and died of an overdose in 1924. Leyendecker’s popularity and financial success not only survived, but thrived during The Great Depression and World War II era. By 1945, editorial changes at The Saturday Evening Post cut his once unbreakable relationship with the magazine. He had spent much of his earned income and returned to shopping his illustrations during the pre-eminent rise of photography. Leyendecker lived a solitary life, keeping his family and friends close. He was never a recluse, yet shied away from public engagement. His home in New Rochelle was once known for boisterous and enjoyable parties. The grounds contained a large garden complex complete with roaming chickens and ducks where artists could trade ideas and discuss technique. J.C. Leyendecker outlived many of his friends and, by the time he died of a heart attack in 1951, had only five individuals attend his funeral. Norman Rockwell and three of Leyendecker’s favorite male models acted as pallbearers. Leyendecker had faced some financial struggles toward the end of his life when the popularity of periodicals and illustrated covers declined. He still managed to leave a sizeable inheritance of $60,400 to his sister and 49 year live-in partner, Charles Beach. They, now famously, sold many of his life’s works in a yard sale in the gardens of the New Rochelle house for as little as $75 a piece.


--- [J. C. Leyendecker - Wikipedia] ---
Joseph Christian Leyendecker (March 23, 1874 – July 25, 1951) was one of the most prominent and financially successful freelance commercial artists in the United States. He was active between 1895 and 1951 producing drawings and paintings for hundreds of posters, books, advertisements, and magazine covers and stories. He is best known for his 80 covers for Collier's Weekly, 322 covers for The Saturday Evening Post, and advertising illustrations for B. Kuppenheimer men's clothing and Arrow brand shirts and detachable collars. He was one of the few known gay artists working in the early-twentieth century United States.




--- [The Century. August (1896) by J. C. Leyendecker – Artchive] ---
The artwork, “The Century. August,” painted by J. C. Leyendecker in 1896, is a fine example of the Art Nouveau (Modern) movement and falls under the genre of design. This piece was created for “The Century Magazine” as the cover for its August issue, which focused on the midsummer holiday season. The artwork features a prominent female figure dressed in a flowing white garment adorned with yellow flowers at the hem. She is depicted with a serene expression and her eyes gently closed. Surrounding her head are large, vivid red poppies intertwined with her long, golden hair. This amalgamation of natural elements and delicate lines exemplifies the Art Nouveau style, known for its emphasis on organic forms and ornamental elegance. The title of the magazine, “The Century,” is prominently displayed at the top in bold, stylized lettering, with “August” and “Midsummer Holiday Number” highlighted beside it, contributing to the overall harmonious composition of the design.


--- [J.C. Leyendecker Client List — Leyendecker Santa] ---
J. C. LEYENDECKER 1874-1951 (A PARTIAL CLIENT LIST) MAGAZINE COVERS & INTERIOR ILLUSTRATIONS Engravings in Line & Halftone (produced by Manz Engraving – 1894) Century Magazine – winner of cover (design) competition: 1896 (700 entries) E. A. Weeks (Chicago publisher) over 100 book covers (1893-1896) Carter’s Monthly Magazine Saturday Evening Post - 322 covers (one more than Norman Rockwell) (44 year association) Collier’s Weekly Magazine – 80 covers Popular Magazine (1908-1912) Circle Magazine Literary Digest Magazine Art in Dress magazine (produced by Hart, Schaffner & Marx) Interior Magazine Success Magazine The Bible - Power Brothers Company – 60 interior illustrations The Royal Scroll – an educational interactive Bible production – 132 illustrations The Inland Printer – (1896-1897) Woman’s Home Companion The Woman’s Magazine (1910) American Weekly (a Hearst publication) Poughkeepsie Regatta – Program Cover – 1925 The World’s Work – 1901 Delineator Magazine Truth Magazine (1901) Everybody’s Magazine Woman’s Home Companion Scribner’s Magazine Club-Fellow Magazine Judge Magazine The Survey Magazine Four O’Clock Magazine The Farm Implement News (1898) The Chicago Day Celebration (1899) (Plus: 78 hard-cover books) AUTOMOBILE-RELATED Franklin Automobile Pierce Arrow Lozier Willys-Overland Company AMOCO Oil Company FASHION-RELATED CLIENTS A.B. Kirschbaum & Company – Clothing Hart, Schaffner & Marx - Clothing Cluett & Peabody - Shirts Arrow Collars & Shirts, Cuffs and Handkerchiefs (25-year association) B. Kuppenheimer Clothes (28 year association) Interwoven Socks Kenosha Klosed-Krotch Underwear Cooper Underwear Carson, Pirie & Scott – Chicago Retailer Charles A. Stevens (Chicago) TOBACCO – RELATED CLIENTS Liggett and Myers Chesterfield Cigarettes Fatima Cigarettes Star Tobacco MISCELLANEOUS CLIENTS Boy Scouts of America (posters, membership cards, manuals) Chicago Alton Railroad Eastern Illinois Railroad Northern Pacific Railroad Cleveland Bicycles Waverley Bicycle – (Indiana) 1898 R. R. Donnelly - Publishers Gillette Safety Razors American Coffee Federation E. Howard & Company – watch manufacturer Kingsford’s Corn Starch Kimball Carriage Ivory Soap Westinghouse Palmolive Soap Remington Firearms Cashmere Bouquet Proctor & Gamble Karo Corn Syrup Kellogg’s Cereals Cream of Wheat Cereal United States Recruitment Posters (WWI &WWII) United States War Bond Posters United States Department of War (The Timken Company) The Pageant & Masque of St. Louis – 1914 Rogers & Company (paper company, Chicago) Rosenow Engravers Manz Engravers


--- [J.C. Leyendecker – Babajanyan Art Academy] ---
While those familiar with The Saturday Evening Post often think of Norman Rockwell as its most prominent illustrator, his mentor, Joseph Christian Leyendecker, made the Post an iconic magazine. Through his illustrious career as a popular cover artist, The Post rang in the early twentieth century with dozens of J.C. Leyendecker’s babies, advertisements, and holiday illustrations. Born to Peter and Elizabeth Leyendecker in Montabaur, Germany on March 23rd, 1874, “J.C.” Leyendecker emigrated from Germany to Chicago, Illinois with his family in 1882 at the age of 8. His close relationships with his two brothers, Francis Xavier and Adolph, along with sister Mary Augusta, would later impact the adorable infant and adolescent depictions of his most famous illustrations. Having a natural talent for art, Leyendecker and his brother, Frank, studied and worked together on small projects wherever they could find them. At the age of 15, Leyendecker apprenticed with J. Manz & Co. Engraving in Chicago. He learned quickly, rising to a job as Associate Illustrator under his Chicago Art Institute instructor, John Henry Vanderpool. Vanderpool had studied, researched, and even published a book on human anatomy, passing on to Leyendecker much of what artistic anatomical knowledge was available at the time. By age 19, Manz & Co. had given Leyendecker a solo contract to illustrate sixty images for a client’s private bible, demonstrating utmost faith in his artistic abilities. In early 1896, the artist won a magazine cover competition for Century Magazine, which elevated his artistic brand to national fame. By autumn, J.C. and his brother Frank had enrolled at the Académie Julian in Paris, France. J.C. Leyendecker quickly rose to prominence while in Europe, earning a spot in a major painting exhibition at The Salon Champs de Mars in 1897. The brothers returned to Chicago in 1898 and together opened a studio for two years before moving their firm to New York City in 1900. Over the course of his artistic career, Leyendecker completed 322 illustrations for The Saturday Evening Post and countless others for magazines such as The American Weekly, Success, and Collier’s. Not only did the artist work for magazines, he also created some of the most successful advertising campaigns in American history. His ingenuity led to serial popularity, whether by the continuation of his New Year’s Baby theme for The Post as started in the magazine’s December 29th, 1906 edition, or his invention of the debonair Arrow Collar Man while working for Cluett, Peabody & Co. in 1905. His work for Arrow Collar single-handedly increased the company’s sales to $32 million a year, making it the nation’s most successful men’s clothing company. Leyendecker’s strong models defined manhood for an entire generation. His artistic reach knew no bounds. His famed illustrative depictions range from calendar holidays to collectable artwork of cherubim babies, relatable American life, and sports and war heroes. In some ways, Leyendecker happened to be a trained artist in the right place, at the right time. His work brought him financial success and international notoriety during the golden age of American illustration. In 1914, he built a home in New Rochelle, New York where he lived with his brother Frank, sister Mary, and the original Arrow Collar model Charles A. Beach. Beach lived in the house as Leyendecker’s live-in secretary, business manager, and partner. J.C.’s brother Frank eventually moved out of the house in the early 1920s (possibly due to jealousy over his brother’s fame) and died of an overdose in 1924. Leyendecker’s popularity and financial success not only survived, but thrived during The Great Depression and World War II era. By 1945, editorial changes at The Saturday Evening Post cut his once unbreakable relationship with the magazine. He had spent much of his earned income and returned to shopping his illustrations during the pre-eminent rise of photography. Leyendecker lived a solitary life, keeping his family and friends close. He was never a recluse, yet shied away from public engagement. His home in New Rochelle was once known for boisterous and enjoyable parties. The grounds contained a large garden complex complete with roaming chickens and ducks where artists could trade ideas and discuss technique. J.C. Leyendecker outlived many of his friends and, by the time he died of a heart attack in 1951, had only five individuals attend his funeral. Norman Rockwell and three of Leyendecker’s favorite male models acted as pallbearers. Leyendecker had faced some financial struggles toward the end of his life when the popularity of periodicals and illustrated covers declined. He still managed to leave a sizeable inheritance of $60,400 to his sister and 49 year live-in partner, Charles Beach. They, now famously, sold many of his life’s works in a yard sale in the gardens of the New Rochelle house for as little as $75 a piece. Images by J.C. Leyendecker. Copyright 2019. All rights Reserved. Saturday Evening Post. Biography text from Saturday Evening Post .
