=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How old is Papa Emeritus? : r/Ghostbc - Reddit]
Papa Emeritus II reigned between 2012-2015, and Papa Emeritus III reigned between 2015-2017. The ages of these two Papas could reasonably be between 44-58 when they began their reigns.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Ghostbc/comments/1aeaau5/how_old_is_papa_emeritus/

[Papa Emeritus II | GhostBC Wiki | Fandom]
Biography Early Life Papa Emeritus II was born three months before his younger half-brother, Papa Emeritus III, possibly in Italy. [2][3] He was the second son of Papa Nihil. [4] At some point he joined the United Clergy of Ghost. [5] Infestissumam At a ritual in Linköping, Sweden on 15 December 2012, Papa Emeritus I stepped down as the frontman and was replaced by Papa Emeritus II. [6][7] On ...
URL: https://ghostband.fandom.com/wiki/Papa_Emeritus_II

[Ghost band: The definitive guide to every member of the Ghost universe ...]
Ghost have long been shrouded in mysterious shenanigans. As well as the largely anonymous Nameless Ghouls that make up the bulk of the band, with each passing album, Ghost mastermind Tobias Forge has introduced a ghastly lead character to front the fold, starting back in 2010 with Papa Emeritus I for debut album Opus Eponymous. After Papas II and III followed for Infestissumam and Meliora ...
URL: https://www.loudersound.com/features/the-ghost-family-tree

[I would like to discuss Papas' descriptions | Fandom]
This is strange. We know that canonically they are three months apart in age. The ages of the characters are given very vaguely in the canon, so perhaps this is unnecessary to know. Papa II and Papa III are half-brothers. I think it's worth mentioning. Besides, I don't think it's right to give arbitrary information about character height.
URL: https://thebandghost.fandom.com/f/p/4400000000000044786

[Has there ever been a confirmed age of each of the papas? If so where is it said?]
In The Summoning (the first one), it is stated that Papa Emeritus II is 3 months older than his half-brother, Papa Emeritus III. dragonjolras.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Ghostbc/comments/1hpz3wb/has_there_ever_been_a_confirmed_age_of_each_of/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How old is Papa Emeritus? : r/Ghostbc - Reddit] ---
How old is Papa Emeritus? Okay, I've been thinking about this far too hard for far too long. It seems the general consensus for the ages of the first 3 Papas is around 80, for some reason, but that seemed odd to me since Papa Nihil is meant to be about that age. So I did what I do best: I started overthinking things. So, for your consideration, here is the fruit of my 3am hyperfixation: Papa Nihil created Ghost in 1969. He is most likely about 40 at this time, given that the actor who plays him was around that age. There is approximately a 20 year time frame for the births of Nihil’s sons, which would have happened between 1949 (when Nihil was 20)-1968 (when he may have started seeing Sister Imperator. Though this may have been a longer relationship.) Papa Emeritus I reigned between 2008-2012. Assuming the 3 brothers descended in age, with Papa I being the oldest, the oldest likely age of Papa I would be 59 years old in 2008 when he began his reign as Papa. He would have been at most 69 when he died in 2018. Papa Emeritus II reigned between 2012-2015, and Papa Emeritus III reigned between 2015-2017. The ages of these two Papas could reasonably be between 44-58 when they began their reigns. Giving a few (rather arbitrary, about 5) years between the births of the three brothers, one could place Papa II at around 55 and Papa III at around 50 when they died in 2018. Cardinal Copia reigned between 2015-2023 In the Kiss The Go-Goat video, it is implied that Sister Imperator was pregnant with Nihil’s child, but left him without telling him about the pregnancy (she was not yet showing, but gently touched her stomach while watching Nihil perform) when he cheated on her. It can be assumed that Cardinal Copia is that child, not only because he has the same heterochromia as the others, but because in multiple shows he referred to Nihil as "My father." and not just Papa. This means he was born in 1970. This also would explain why Nihil didn't think Copia was "of the bloodline" if he didn't know Copia was his son. Cardinal Copia in 2015 would have been 45. As of 2023 he would be 53, which is the most definitive age we can get from any of the Emeritus. We can chalk Papa I looking SO old to the fact that his mask was a generic "Walter Gray" mask, and wasn't specifically made with the character in mind. Papa II actually looks much younger than the 80-something a lot of people guesstimate, the mask looks more like a 50-60 year old. I hope this rough timeline brings peace to anyone else who hyperfixates on stupid things.


--- [Papa Emeritus II | GhostBC Wiki | Fandom] ---
"When time was up for the first guy, they wanted to find a successor in-house. Me, being one of the Ministry, obviously rose to the opportunity. Not only because of the carnal rewards of all this, but also because I just happen to love a hard rocking sexy beat." ― Papa Emeritus II (translated from Italian), 11 September 2013.[1] Papa Emeritus II (By 2012 - 2018) was the third frontman of Ghost and led the band through the releases of and tour cycles for their second psalm, Infestissumam, and second extended play, If You Have Ghost. Papa was the son of Ghost's first frontman, Papa Nihil, and one of his lovers. He was born three months before his half-brother and succesor, Papa Emeritus III. At some point before December 2012, Papa joined the United Clergy of Ghost, becoming a respected and high-ranking member of the Clergy. When his half-brother, Papa Emeritus I, stepped down as frontman in December 2012, Papa took the reigns. During his time as frontman, Papa enjoyed partying and womanizing. Unlike his half-brothers, Papa was frequently out of his make-up in his free time. Like his half-brother before him, Papa stepped down as frontman in 2015 and was replaced by his younger half-brother. Alongside his brothers, Papa was killed by Nameless Ghouls in March 2018 to pave the way forward for Cardinal Copia. After his death, Papa's body was embalmed and put on display as part of the Veneration of Relics, available for viewing after rituals to all followers who have paid their tithe. Biography[] Early Life[] Papa Emeritus II was born three months before his younger half-brother, Papa Emeritus III,[2] possibly in Italy.[3] He was the second son of Papa Nihil.[4] At some point he joined the United Clergy of Ghost.[5] Infestissumam[] At a ritual in Linköping, Sweden on 15 December 2012,[6] Papa Emeritus I stepped down as the frontman and was replaced by Papa Emeritus II.[7] On 27 March 2013, an unmasked Papa, wearing a fine suit and a fedora, visited a group of women who were delighted to see him. The women fawned over him, serving him food and drink until he left.[8] In April 2013, Ghost, now fronted by Papa Emeritus II, released their second psalm Infestissumam, on the 16th. It was previously scheduled to come out a week earlier, but manufacturers allegedly refused to print a piece of artwork, offended by the sacrilegious nature.[9] The Olde One[] In September 2013, Papa Emeritus II was interviewed about his experience with the band. He described his path to becoming the frontman of the band and why he wanted to join. Papa described himself to the documentary crew as a ladies man and entertainer enjoying his prime. He dissed his brother, Papa Emeritus I, saying that while he was authoritative, the band needed someone with more clear leadership skills, such as himself. Papa understood that his time as the frontman would not last, and was not particularly happy that he was setting the stage for another to take the reigns, but understood that was simply how it worked.[5] If You Have Ghost[] A month after the first documentary installment, on 20 November 2013, Ghost released an extended play, If You Have Ghost. The record featured many cover songs, including the eponymous track by Roky Erickson. On the same day, Ghost released a new version of their sophomore psalm, Infestissumam (Redux).[10] What Happens in Vegas...[] In April 2014, Papa attended an autograph signing at a store where he interacted with many fans whom he described as religiously devoted to Ghost. He described his treatment of audience members, specifically women, as a "360 degree Papa," proving his description as a ladies man accurate. Papa then threw a wild party in his Los Vegas hotel, waking up disheveled in a trashed room.[11] End of an Era[] During a ritual in Linköping on 3 June 2015, Papa was removed as the band's frontman and replaced by his younger-by-three-months half-brother, Papa Emeritus III.[12] Death & Legacy[] In March 2018,[4] Papa was playing Uno in the Ministry with his brothers, Papa Emeritus I and Papa Emeritus III, when Sister Imperator entered the room and announced they were being reinstated. However, after sitting down each of the Papa's was killed via poison injection by a Nameless Ghoul. Papa's body was taken to the morgue, embalmed by a Clergy mortician and dressed up in full Papa regalia before being placed in a box and shipped off in a truck.[13] Papa's body followed the band on tour where it was put on display as part of the Veneration of Relics, available to followers who paid their tithe prior to a ritual.[14] Discography[] Tourography[] Appearances[] - Live at Cupolen (First appearance) - Secular Haze (Official Music Video) - Year Zero (Official Music Video) - Monstrance Clock (Official Music Video) - Papaganda - The Olde One - Papaganda - What Happens in Vegas... - Live at Doom Nightclub - The Summoning (Mentioned only) - The Summoning IV: The Arrival (Mentioned only) - Chapter One: New Blood (Indirectly mentioned only) - Chapter Three: Back on the Road (Death) Sources[] - Loudwire – Ghost B.C. Unveil ‘Infestissumam’ Release Date + 2013 North American Tour With Ides of Gemini (backup) - Dead Rhetoric – GHOST’s Latest Album “Infestissumam” Breaks U.S Top 30 (backup) - Loudwire – Ghost B.C.'s Voalist Papa Emeritus II Unmasked in 'Papaganda' Documentary Series (backup) - Loudwire – Ghost B.C. Unveil Live ‘Secular Haze’ Video from New York City Concert (backup) - Metal Injection – GHOST Covers EP & Deluxe Version Of Infestissumam Out Before Year's End (backup) - Blabbermouth – Second Part Of GHOST Documentary Posted Online: 'What Happens In Vegas...' (backup) - Loudwire – Ghost B.C.’s Papa Emeritus II Rocks Vegas + Picks Up Groupies in Second ‘Papaganda’ Video (backup) - Metal Sucks – Watch Papa Emeritus II Take on Groupies Two at a Time (backup) - The Spillways Lounge VIP Experience Notes and references[] - ↑ Ghost B.C., "The Olde One - Papaganda Ep. 1," written by Tobias Forge, dir. by Greg Olliver, September 11, 2013, 5:38, https://youtu.be/woE4lBE615I?si=92bKTTTub7UFbiNE. - ↑ The Summoning - ↑ During his appearance during Ghost's Liseberg concert, Papa Nihil spoke in Italian, despite the concert taking place in Sweden. His son, Papa Emeritus II, spoke Italian natively in Papaganda - The Olde One. Because Nihil and his son both speak Italian natively, it is likely they are both from Italy. - ↑ 4.0 4.1 Chapter One: New Blood - ↑ 5.0 5.1 Papaganda - The Olde One - ↑ Ghost @Cupolen 15 Dec 2012 Setlist - ↑ Live at Cupolen - ↑ Year Zero (Official Music Video) - ↑ Dead Rhetoric – GHOST’s Latest Album “Infestissumam” Breaks U.S Top 30 - ↑ Metal Injection – GHOST Covers EP & Deluxe Version Of Infestissumam Out Before Year's End - ↑ Papaganda - What Happens in Vegas... - ↑ Live at Doom Nightclub - ↑ Chapter Three: Back on the Road - ↑ The Spillways Lounge VIP Experience


--- [Ghost band: The definitive guide to every member of the Ghost universe ...] ---
Ghost: the definitive guide to every member of their crazy universe From Papa Emeritus I to IV to Papa V Perpetua, Papa Nihil, Sister Imperator and beyond, here's everything you need to know about Ghost's colourful cast of characters Select the newsletters you’d like to receive. Then, add your email to sign up. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? Ghost have long been shrouded in mysterious shenanigans. As well as the largely anonymous Nameless Ghouls that make up the bulk of the band, with each passing album, Ghost mastermind Tobias Forge has introduced a ghastly lead character to front the fold, starting back in 2010 with Papa Emeritus I for debut album Opus Eponymous. After Papas II and III followed for Infestissumam and Meliora respectively, for 2018's Prequelle, there was no numbered Papa to be found – just a Cardinal and another, newly introduced ancient figure known as Papa Nihil. The plot has only thickened since then, with Cardinal Copia first being upgraded to a Papa all of his own for the Impera era and then later elevated to "Frater Imperator" after the (and mild spoilers here) demise of Sister Imperator. With the implication of a twin brother and the official unveiling of Papa V Perpetua, the latest figure to step into the spotlight and front the band, we thought it perfect timing to run back through every member of Ghost's extended clergy. Papa Emeritus I AKA: The first one. Years Of Service: 2010-2012. Notes: Papa Emeritus I was the OG Ghost frontman and could usually be found stalking back and forth on stages wielding his trusty thurible (that’s that big, swinging incense burner thingy he used to have). The original, certainly, but arguably not the best. Papa Emeritus II AKA: The scary one. Years Of Service: 2013-2015. Notes: With a far ghastlier looking visage than his predecessor, Papa Emeritus II was also the first Papa to ditch the makeup when he fronted a special, three-song Ghost set for an Australian website in 2014. Though we’re still not convinced that was his real face, either. Papa Emeritus III AKA: The dandy. Years Of Service: 2015-2017. Notes: The younger brother of both prior Papas - apparently only "three months younger" than his direct predecessor owing to some wild seed sowing by Papa Nihil - Papa Emeritus III brought a new energy to Ghost, shrugging off his Papal robes mid-set for a snazzy suited-and-booted look based on Swedish king Charles III that came with a host of sexually-charged stage moves. Oooh, the cad. It set a new precedent for the dynamics of how Ghost shows would usually operate (let's just say the costume change count has only gone up since then). Papa III was eventually and unceremoniously killed off, along with his two predecessors, his decapitated head appearing on the cover of Metal Hammer in 2018. Oh dear. Papa Nihil AKA: The old one. Years Of Service: 1969-2020 alive, 2020-2025 as a spooky spirit Notes: Making his live debut seconds after Papa III was dragged off stage in Sweden in late 2017, Papa 0 looked older than time itself (er, no offense). His role was seemingly to mentor younger Papas and Papas-in-waiting, not least a newly arrived Cardinal who seemed to have more than just professional connections to the old-timer. Papa 0 could also, it would appear, bust out a mean saxophone solo, but that sadly wasn't enough to save him when he was rudely offed live onstage in Mexico in 2020, only to be briefly 'resurrected' on tour in 2022 Frankenstein-style to play sax again during live shows. This band's health insurance renewal rates must be through the roof, quite frankly. Sign up below to get the latest from Metal Hammer, plus exclusive special offers, direct to your inbox! Cardinal Copia AKA: The one that wasn't a Papa (but is now). Years Of Service: 2018-2020. Notes: Providing a combo breaker by eschewing the corpsepaint and having a decidedly less pope-y fashion sense, Cardinal Copia was the lovably daft Papa-in-waiting that brought an extra flash of sass to the Ghost camp. Tobias Forge once suggested to us that, unlike previous Ghost frontmen, Cardi C might actually stick around for a few records - and he was half-right. In March 2020, on stage in Mexico, The Cardinal was surrounded by The Clergy and transformed into Papa Emeritus IV. A new dawn beckoned... Papa Emeritus IV AKA: The Papa Formerly Known As Cardi C Years Of Service: 2020-2023 Notes: The upgraded Cardinal served as the fourth Papa Emeritus, and if Ghost's latest live show is anything to go by, he may be the most extravagant one yet. Packing dazzling robes, a fancy new hat (or three) and a fine array of new stage costumes, he's lead Ghost's most over the top and bombastic era ever. Given The Clergy's propensity for offing its heads, it seemed Papa IV's days might have been numbered as the band toured in 2023, but the brilliantly bonkers Rite Here Rite Now added twists to the tale, including the fact he was the lovechild of Sister Imperator and Papa Nihil and that he may (or may not) have a twin brother. Frater Imperator AKA: The Big Daddy Years Of Service: 2023-Present Notes: Ghost do love a canny plot twist. Much of the run-up to Ghost's Rite Here Rite Now release surrounded speculation that, like the previous Papas, The Papa formerly known as Cardi C would be killed off on-stage when the band completed their massive Imperatour in the US at Los Angeles' Kia Forum. But it didn't work out that way. After taking his final bow, Papa IV watched as Sister Imperator collapsed due to an undisclosed health condition and paramedics failed to revive her. A letter left to Papa IV after Sister Imperator's death officially crowned him as the head of The Clergy, taking on the title of "Frater Imperator". The power hasn't had chance to go to his head just yet, though; bumbling mishaps, arguments with ghostly apparitions (that may not be there after all) and a mix-up with door keys suggest Frater's time out of the spotlight will be no less eventful than his tenure as Ghost's frontman. In a 2025 interview, Tobias hinted at more to come - "Promoted, demoted? Depending where you sit... He has an important role, it needs to land in his mind that he's important still even though he's not still the focal point." As of Chapter 20, there's certainly some resentment towards his successor, Cardi now having a pathological hatred for the letter "V" that extends to breaking the key off his keyboard and not allowing anyone to wear V-necks to work. Papa V Perpetua AKA: MechaPapa Years Of Service: 2025-Present Notes: So who the hell is the new guy? Breaking with tradition, we no longer have a Papa Emeritus - instead, this latest installment goes by the title "Papa V Perpetua", something that was confirmed when he was announced as one of the guests for 2025's massive Black Sabbath farewell gig in Birmingham. There's very little to go on with this new Papa, though the video to latest single Satanized suggests a possible origin story involving heresy and monks, and a Darth Vader like speaking voice. With a little over a month until new album Skeletá arrives and the band hit the road again, we'd say it's a safe bet that we'll learn more in the coming weeks... The Nameless Ghouls AKA: The band. Years Of Service: 2010-Present. Notes: Less individuals and more a mass of souls represented onstage by mysterious, anonymous figures. They seem to grow in number with each passing album cycle, and get their own revamp to go alongside each newly introduced (or upgraded) frontman. This latest lot of Nameless Ghouls all appear to have wings. Top notch. Sister Imperator AKA: The matriarch. Years Of Service: 1969-2023 (alive) 2023 - 2025? (as a spirit) Notes: A figurehead behind the scenes, the mysterious Sister Imperator has appeared in a number of videos put out by Ghost in recent years, and she seems to have a particular (motherly) affinity for The Cardinal/Papa IV. We got to see both Sister Imperator and Papa Nihil in their younger incarnations during Ghost's Kiss The Go-Goat era, which also expanded their story and revealed IV was the love child of Imperator and Nihil (and may have a sibling). Her time at the head of the clergy came to an end in the closing moments of Rite Here Rite Now when an undisclosed illness killed her, but she's since popped up as a spirit to help smooth the transition for Frater Imperator. Mr. Psaltarian AKA: The Handyman Years Of Service: ??? - Present Notes: First introduced in Chapter 10 of Ghost's ongoing video series, Mr. Psaltarian is yet another mysterious religious figure with definite but somewhat murky connections to The Clergy. Something of a handyman and fixer, it was Psltarian who gave Papa IV the letter that confirmed his ascension to Frater Imperator and, as revealed in Chapter 20, helped to raise Cardi as a child. Marika Psaltarian AKA: The New Mamma Years Of Service: ??? - Present Notes: First mentioned in Chapter 19 as "Sister Psalty", Marika Psaltarian is the wife of Mr. Psaltarian and has taken over from Sister Imperator in the day-to-day running of The Clergy. In Chapter 20, it was revealed that Cardi - now Frater Imperator - was actually raised by the Psaltarians and that Marika is the biological sister of Sister Imperator. The plot thickens. "It's a complicated story," she says in Chapter 20. "But it will make sense after a while." Judith AKA: The Socialist Media Years Of Service: 2025 - Present Notes: The latest recruit to The Clergy, Judith appears to have been hired to take care of Ghost's social media campaigns with the existing members of The Clergy admitting they're at risk of becoming luddites. There's a special top-secret campaign she's working on as of Chapter 20, but her first meeting with Frater Imperator ended with a very flustered Frater introducing himself. The Clergy AKA: The main event. Years Of Service: 2010-Present. Notes: The mysterious cult from which these strange beings all stepped forth, The Clergy is the centre point for everything that Ghost is, was and shall be. They remain anonymous, omnipotent and powerful. Which is metal as fuck, to be fair. Father Jim Defroque AKA: The Bad Boy Priest Years Of Service: [unknown]-Present Notes: Introduced in a half-hour special on YouTube entitled "Jesus Talk With Father Jim Defroque" released on Easter Sunday 2023, at first it appeared the Pastor was the antithesis of our favourite Satanic Swedes and a true man of the cloth as he disapprovingly dissected lyrics from bands including Ministry, Soundgarden and Green Day (all Jesus themed, naturally). It wasn't long before Father Defroque's true colours came out, however: suspicious sniffs throughout his YouTube special turned into a full bender during the Jesus He Knows Me video featuring copious amounts of blow, guns and erm, a questionable haircare regimen. How does he fit in with the wider Ghost lore? It's anyone's guess. Merlin was promoted to Executive Editor of Louder in early 2022, following over ten years working at Metal Hammer. While there, he served as Online Editor and Deputy Editor, before being promoted to Editor in 2016. Before joining Metal Hammer, Merlin worked as Associate Editor at Terrorizer Magazine and has written for Classic Rock, Rock Sound, eFestivals and others. Across his career he has interviewed legends including Ozzy Osbourne, Lemmy, Metallica, Iron Maiden (including getting a trip on Ed Force One courtesy of Bruce Dickinson), Guns N' Roses, KISS, Slipknot, System Of A Down and Meat Loaf. He has also presented and produced the Metal Hammer Podcast, presented the Metal Hammer Radio Show and is probably responsible for 90% of all nu metal-related content making it onto the site.


--- [I would like to discuss Papas' descriptions | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Has there ever been a confirmed age of each of the papas? If so where is it said?] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Ghostbc Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Ghostbc r/Ghostbc • Baxobhone- Has there ever been a confirmed age of each of the papas? If so where is it said? Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 30, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation
