=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Grete Stern - Wikipedia]
The daughter of Frida Hochberger and Louis Stern, Grete Stern was born on 9 May 1904 in Elberfeld, Germany. [3] She often visited family in England and attended primary school there. After reaching adulthood, from 1923 to 1925 she studied graphic arts at the Kunstgewerbeschule, Stuttgart, but after a short term working in the field she was inspired by the photography of Edward Weston and Paul ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grete_Stern

[Grete Stern: German-Argentinian interpreter of dreams - Macfilos]
May 10, 2023 · Grete Stern in Argentina Stern married the Argentinian photographer Horacio Coppola, whom she had met in Germany, and they began visiting his home country. Eventually, she emigrated there and took up permanent residency. Together, they mounted what is considered the country’s first modern photography exhibition, held in Buenos Aires.
URL: https://www.macfilos.com/2023/05/10/grete-stern-german-argentinian-interpreter-of-dreams/

[Grete Stern (1904 - 1999) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Dec 24, 1999 · Genealogy for Grete Stern (1904 - 1999) family tree on Geni, with over 275 million profiles of ancestors and living relatives.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Grete-Stern/6000000018081876054

[Grete Stern - Graphic Arts]
Sep 15, 2012 · In the 1930s, the German photographer Grete Stern (1904-1999) married the Argentine photographer Horacio Coppola (1906-2012) and settled in Buenos Aires. They brought with them the ideology of the Bauhaus workshop in Dessau where they met and were important agents in the spread of European modernist theory to South America.
URL: https://swh.princeton.edu/~graphicarts/2012/09/grete_stern.html

[Grete Stern]
Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola were married in 1935 and traveled to Argentina, Coppola's native country. In October 1935, shortly after arriving in Buenos ...
URL: https://jwa.org/encyclopedia/article/stern-grete


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Grete Stern - Wikipedia] ---
Grete Stern (9 May 1904 – 24 December 1999) was a German-Argentine photographer. Between April 1930 and March 1933, she studied at the Bauhaus. With her husband Horacio Coppola, she helped modernize the visual arts in Argentina, and presented the first exhibition of modern photographic art in Buenos Aires, in 1935.


--- [Grete Stern: German-Argentinian interpreter of dreams - Macfilos] ---
Yesterday was the birthday of the photographer Grete Stern. She was born on May 9th 1904, one hundred and nineteen years ago. Grete Stern was born in Elberfeld, a town that later became a part of Wuppertal in Germany. Although her photographic career began in the country of her birth, she spent much of her artistic life in Argentina. She eventually became a citizen of that country. She initially studied graphic arts, but inspired by the work of Edward Weston, she switched her emphasis to photography. Together with Ellen Rosenberg Auerbach she founded the Berlin-based ringl+pit photography and design studio. She emigrated and moved her studio to England in 1933 in response to the political climate in Germany. Grete Stern in Argentina Stern married the Argentinian photographer Horacio Coppola, whom she had met in Germany, and they began visiting his home country. Eventually, she emigrated there and took up permanent residency. Together, they mounted what is considered the country’s first modern photography exhibition, held in Buenos Aires. One of her most notable photographic accomplishments in her adopted country was the creation of the los sueños (dreams) series. These were surreal photomontages created to illustrate descriptions of dreams submitted by readers of Idilio, a magazine aimed at working-class women, for which she worked. She produced over one hundred and fifty such images during the project, some of which represent her most recognisable works. Grete Stern retired from photography in 1985 but lived another fourteen years. She died in Buenos Aires in 1999 at the age of ninety-five. Were you familiar with the work of Grete Stern? Did you recognize any of the photographs in the article? Do you have any experience in creating photomontages? Do you think dreams have meanings or are just ephemeral subconscious debris? Let us know in the comments below. Read more from the author Make a donation to help with our running costs Did you know that Macfilos is run by five photography enthusiasts based in the UK, USA and Europe? We cover all the substantial costs of running the site, and we do not carry advertising because it spoils readers’ enjoyment. Any amount, however small, will be appreciated, and we will write to acknowledge your generosity.


--- [Grete Stern (1904 - 1999) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Grete Stern | | | Birthdate: | | | Birthplace: | Eberfeld, Germany | | Death: | Died in Buenos Aires, Argentina | | Immediate Family: | Daughter of Louis Stern and Frida Hochberger | |---|---| | Managed by: | Carlos Federico (Cantarito) Bung... | | Last Updated: | Immediate Family - ex-husband - daughter - father - mother About Grete Stern http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grete_Stern Grete Stern (Elberfeld, Alemania, 9 de mayo de 1904 — Buenos Aires, Argentina, 24 de diciembre de 1999) fue una diseñadora y fotógrafa alemana radicada en Argentina, alumna de la Escuela de la Bauhaus. Contenido 1 Biografía 2 Obra 3 Libros 4 Exposiciones (Selección) 5 Referencias 6 Enlaces externos Biografía En la década de 1930, trabajó con Ellen Rosenberg y más tarde, tras la llegada de Hitler al poder, tuvo que emigrar debido a su origen judío y su ideología de izquierda. Su destino inicial fue Londres, donde abrió un estudio en 1934,1 pero afianzada su relación con Horacio Coppola, fotógrafo argentino con el que había estudiado en la Bauhaus y con quien finalmente se casó; su destino final sería junto a él en Argentina, donde ambos dejaron la mayor parte de su legado fotográfico. A pesar de haberse separado en 1943, ella se consideraba a sí misma una fotógrafa argentina y en 1958 adoptó esta nacionalidad.1 Su casa familiar en Buenos Aires fue un punto de encuentro de intelectuales. Entre las amistades que la frecuentaban estuvieron figuras como Pablo Neruda, Jorge Luis Borges, Renate Schottelius, Clement Moreau, etc. Entre las personalidades internacionales a las que retrató con sus fotos hechas a, entre otros, Bertolt Brecht o Jorge Luis Borges. Ya divorciada, permaneció en la Argentina. Viajó por este país sudamericano y conoció a la escasa, pero todavía existente población indígena, a la que fotografió y con la que se involucró de modo especial. Llegó a ser profesora de fotografía en la Universidad de Resistencia en la Provincia del Chaco y se dedicó a los problemas sociales de la comunidad originaria de esa zona. En 1985, debido a una dolencia ocular, abandonó la fotografía.1 Obra Con una clara vocación y una real experiencia fotográfica, accedió a la Escuela de la Bauhaus de la mano de su profesor Walter Peterhans. Sus obras de carácter onírico y ejecución surrealista sobre los sueños de las mujeres, muestran con nitidez su impronta vanguardista. También son de gran sensibilidad, al igual que sus retratos, sus imágenes documentales, sus reportajes urbanos sobre Buenos Aires o sobre los últimos indígenas argentinos. Libros Buenos Aires (1953). Exposiciones (Selección) 1985: La photographie du Bauhaus, Museo de Arte Contemporáneo de Montreal (Canadá) 1998: Arte Madí (Colectiva), Museo Extremeño e Iberoamericano de Arte Contemporáneo MEIAC, Badajoz (España) 2001: Sueños, Presentation House Gallery - PHG, North Vancouver, BC (Canadá) 2003: Arte Abstracto Argentino (Colectiva), Fundación Proa, Buenos Aires (Argentina) 2005: Culturas del Gran Chaco (Individual), Fundación Proa, Buenos Aires (Argentina) 2011: Los sueños 1948 - 1951 (Individual), Museo de Arte Latinoamericano de Buenos Aires (Argentina) Referencias ↑ a b c Sougez, M.L.; Pérez Gallardo, H. (2003). Diccionario de historia de la fotografía. Madrid: Ediciones Cátedra. pp. 421. ISBN 84-376-2038-4. Enlaces externos Colabora en Commons. Wikimedia Commons alberga contenido multimedia sobre Grete Stern. Revista poética Almacén Fundación Proa - ###################################### twitter logo facebook logo flickr logo Jewish Women's Archive Jewish Women: A Comprehensive Historical Encyclopedia About Us Mission What We Do Staff Board of Directors Career & Volunteer Opportunities FAQ Credits & Awards Contact Us Features Blog - Jewesses With Attitude MyBatMitzvahStory This Week in History On the Map We Remember Thematic Features How-To Making Trouble Podcasts Exhibits Women of Valor Feminism Katrina's Jewish Voices Community Oral History Projects Contemporary Activists Education Living the Legacy Go & Learn Curricula The Natalia Twersky Educator Award Posters Oral History Tools Book/Film Guides Mother/Daughter Activities Best Practices Professional Development Research Encyclopedia Bios and Archives Oral History Tools The American Jewess Book/Film Guides Bibliography News Upcoming Events JWA Newsroom JWA in the Media In Action (Print Newsletter) E-Letter Support Us Why Give to JWA Donate Now Leave a Legacy Our Supporters Community Report Grete Stern 1904 – 1999 Discuss Stern, Grete - still image [media] Full image Ringl with glasses (Grete Stern), by Ellen Auerbach, Studio ringl+pit, 1929 Institution: Juan Mandelbaum by Clara Sandler and Juan Mandelbaum In 1935, two months after arriving in Argentina, Grete Stern and her husband Horacio Coppola presented what the magazine Sur called “the first serious exhibition of photographic art in Buenos Aires,” which comprised work produced in Germany and London between 1929 and 1935: portraits, compositions, advertising photographs and landscapes. Her work showed an unconventional approach to photography: advertisement collages and studies with crystals, objects and still-lifes. Even the most accepted subjects at the time, such as portraits and landscapes, were done in unconventional ways: perfect definition, wide chromatic spectrum, flat lighting, simple poses and untouched negatives. Between 1935 and 1981 she continued with this work in Argentina, adding an important series of photomontages, reproductions of art work and portraits. Stern brought with her from Germany a modernist sensibility, developed in bohemian Berlin and at the legendary Bauhaus School, that shook up the staid approach to photography in Argentina at that time and established her as one of the founders of Argentine modern photography. Grete Stern was born in Elberfeld, near Wuppertal, Germany, on May 9, 1904. She was the first child of Frida Hochberger and Louis Stern, who died in 1910. Her family was involved in the textile business and often traveled to visit relatives in England, where Stern attended her first years of elementary school. She studied piano and guitar and from 1923 to 1925 studied graphic design with Prof. Ernst Schneidler at the Kunstgewerbeschule (Am Weissenhof) in Stuttgart. In 1926 she worked as a freelance graphic design and advertising artist in her home town of Wuppertal. After seeing a photography exhibition of Edward Weston and Paul Outerbridge she was inspired to study photography. In 1927 Stern moved to Berlin to live with her brother Walter, who was working as a film editor. He sent her to meet photographer Umbo (Otto Umbehr) who in turn sent her to take private lessons with Walter Peterhans, a photographer well known for his meticulously produced still lives. In 1928 Peterhans also accepted Ellen (Rosenberg) Auerbach as a student. Stern and Auerbach began a profound friendship that lasted throughout their lifetime. “He taught us to see photographically. For him the camera was not just a mechanism to take a photograph. It was a new way of seeing,” she said in an interview in 1992. In 1930 Walter Peterhans was named Master of Photography at the renowned Bauhaus School for art and design in Dessau. Using the proceeds from an inheritance Stern bought his equipment and with Auerbach started a photography studio for advertising, fashion and portrait photography. They thought that calling it “Rosenberg [Ellen’s birth name] and Stern” sounded too much “like a Jewish clothes manufacturer” so they called it ringl+pit, after their childhood nicknames (Ringl for Grete, Pit for Ellen). They decided to sign all their work together. In the early 1930s modern advertising was at its beginning and left ample room for creative exploration. ringl+pit’s advertising work represented a departure from current styles, by combining objects, mannequins and cut-up figures in a whimsical fashion. Stern and Auerbach were also influenced by the intense creative environment prevalent in Berlin at the time. Their work explored a new way of portraying women, in line with the image of the New Woman that was emerging at the time. There was a subtle irony in their work about what was accepted and expected of women that was a marked departure from the dominant image of women. Grete’s background in graphic design also came in handy. “What I liked very much was the combination of photography with a well done typography, with well done letters. That was my specialty,” said Stern. In 1933 ringl+pit’s work received positive reviews in the magazine Gebrauchsgraphik and in 1933 they won first prize for one of their advertising posters at the Deuxième Exposition Internationale de la Photographie et du Cinema in Brussels. In April 1930 Grete Stern followed Peterhans to Dessau to continue her studies. There she met an Argentine photographer and fellow Peterhans student, Horacio Coppola. Auerbach kept the studio running and Stern returned to continue their work together in March 1931. She went back to the Bauhaus for further studies with Peterhans between April 1932 and March 1933. In 1933 the Bauhaus closed its doors, hounded by the Nazis. Although not an activist, Grete was sympathetic to leftist movements and her friends there warned her of the upcoming dangers posed by the new regime. With antisemitism becoming more and more aggressive, in early 1934 Stern left the ringl+pit studio and with her brother Walter emigrated to London. She was able to take with her all of her photographic equipment and furniture. These were productive years for Stern: she opened a photographic and advertisement studio and continued her work on portraits, photographing her friends from the community of German exiles, including Bertolt Brecht, Helene Weigel, Karl Korsch and Paula Heimann. The French magazine Cahiers d’Art includes an article on the ringl+pit studio. Ellen Auerbach had also had to leave Germany and after a brief stay in Palestine joined Stern in London. Their last work together was photographs for a maternity hospital brochure. Grete’s brother Walter emigrated to California in 1934. Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola were married in 1935 and traveled to Argentina, Coppola’s native country. In October 1935, shortly after arriving in Buenos Aires, Stern and Coppola mounted a joint exhibition that is considered the first exhibition of modern photography in Argentina. Unsure whether she wanted to stay with Coppola, a pregnant Stern went back to London, where her daughter Silvia was born on March 7, 1936. A few months later she decided to return to Coppola and Argentina, where she lived the rest of her life. Between 1937 and 1941 Stern and Coppola operated a photography, graphic design and advertising studio in Buenos Aires. They tried to create a modern studio but they were too far ahead for the local way of working. At that time there were no advertising agencies in Buenos Aires. In 1943 Stern presented her first one-woman exhibition in Buenos Aires, which was comprised entirely of portraits. Her stark style was a marked departure from the dramatic and overlit pictures that were prevalent in Argentina at the time. Working as a woman in a male-dominated society was also a challenge. Stern and Coppola’s home was always open to receive Jewish and political exiles from Europe. They forged a community of support, work and cultural activities with the intellectuals and artists escaping persecution, who also became models for her portrait work. In 1940 the couple moved to a Modernist house built in the outskirts of the city, designed by architect Wladimiro Acosta. It had a studio with natural light and darkroom facilities. A son, Andrés, was born the same year. The following year Stern and Coppola separated. The house became a meeting place for young artists and writers, many of them Coppola’s friends, both Argentine and exiled foreigners. They met to show their work and discuss cultural matters. For example, in 1945 the Madi arts group (Movimiento de Arte Concreto Invención) exhibited for the first time at her house. Stern used the gatherings in her home as an opportunity to photograph her visitors. Among her subjects were exponents of the avant-garde in the arts and letters, including Jorge Luis Borges, Clément Moreau, Renate Schottelius and others. Stern’s photographs are a precious archive of intellectuals and artists of the time. “I made people see what I saw in a face. I never liked those hard shadows which were very often used at that time. Some critics thought that it was a bad way [to photograph], they said it’s all gray, it doesn’t say anything. But in the end they did like it.” said Stern. These photographs are studies of faces and heads, with simple backgrounds that do not distract from the main subject. By the mid-1940s Stern was a well-established photographer and graphic designer in Buenos Aires. Throughout her career her photographic subjects were quite varied and included portraits, advertising, nature, cityscapes and indigenous people in the North of Argentina. Stern’s portrait work was often done for pleasure, but her subjects became clients when they saw the product of her work. She also worked with architectural studios and in 1947 the magazine Nuestra Arquitectura published an article on architect Amancio Williams, with Stern’s photographs. At this time she started singing in choirs, which she would continue to do for the next forty years. In 1948 Stern was offered the unusual assignment of providing photos for a column on the interpretation of dreams in the popular weekly women’s magazine Idilio. The column, entitled “Psychoanalysis Will Help You,” was a response to dreams sent in by readers, mostly working-class women. It was written under the pseudonym Richard Rest by renowned sociologist Gino Germani, who later became a professor at Harvard University. The result was a series of about one hundred and fifty photomontages produced between 1948 and 1951 that show Stern’s avant-garde spirit. In these photomontages she portrays women’s oppression and submission in Argentine society with sarcastic and surreal images. The photomontage was an ideal way for Stern to express her ideas about the dominant values. In 1956 Stern created and directed a photography workshop at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Fine Arts Museum,) where she worked until her retirement in 1970. There she met numerous artists and documented their portraits. An invitation in 1959 to teach a photography seminar at the University of the Northeast, in Resistencia, Chaco, gave a creative impulse to her work. In 1964 she obtained a grant from the Fondo Nacional de las Artes and traveled through the northeast of Argentina, producing more than eight hundred photos portraying the lives, craftwork and daily activities of the aboriginals of the region. It constitutes the most important photo archive on this subject in Argentina. She was interested in showing the poor living conditions of the aboriginal populations and also highlighting their craft-making skills. Back in Buenos Aires she prepared an exhibition of this work at the Municipal Modern Art Museum of Buenos Aires. She hoped that her photographs would help foster change in the living conditions of the Indians from the Northeast, but this did not happen in her lifetime. A selection of these photographs was shown in 1975 at the Bauhaus Archiv in Berlin and later toured some German cities. The suicide of her son Andres in 1965 was a profound shock. Her mother had also taken her life, and Grete herself often suffered from depression. Her teaching activities continued until 1985. Argentine photographer Sara Facio has commented on Stern’s influence in Argentina: “Grete has influenced new generations [of photographers] in two ways. On one hand, with the importance she gives to form. Her photography is not improvised but well thought out. And second by her attitude to life. She is a woman who has been devoted to her vocation, during good times and bad, and young people admire that” (Interview with the author, 1992). In 1972 Stern traveled to the United States, England, France, Greece and Israel and for the first time since leaving in 1933 she visited Germany. In 1975 the Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin organized the first photographic exhibition after the war, which included Stern’s work. In 1979 Gert Sander, August Sander’s grandson, began representing the ringl+pit work. In 1988 her hometown of Wuppertal organized a ringl+pit retrospective (Emigriert, “Emigrated”) that also included Stern and Auerbach’s later work. And in 1993 the Folkwang Museum in Essen purchased the original negatives and a large body of their work and presented an extensive exhibition of their work. She continued her studio work doing portraits and landscapes until 1980, when she stopped due to failing eyesight. “Photography has given me great happiness. I learned a lot and was able to say things I wanted to say and show,” said Stern in 1992. Grete Stern died in Buenos Aires on December 24, 1999 at the age of ninety-five. Grete Stern, who started her career in the European avant-garde of the late 1920s, produced her major body of work in Argentina, where her modern and different style placed her among the founders of Argentina’s modern photography. - ************************************** Grete Stern Biografía Grete Stern nace en 1904 en Wuppertal, Elberfeld, Alemania. Realiza sus estudios primarios en Wuppertal y en Londres. Al tiempo que estudia piano y guitarra. En 1923 comienza a estudiar artes gráficas en Stuttgart. En 1927 por sugerencia del fotógrafo Umbo estuda fotografía, siendo alumna de Walter Peterhans. En 1929 junto con su amiga Ellen Auerbach, crea un estudio de diseño gráfico y fotografía: ringl + pit. En la Bauhaus de Dessau, cursa dos semestres en el taller de fotografía. A finales de 1933, con Hitler en el poder, emigra a Inglaterra. Abre en Londres, en 1934, un estudio fotográfico y de publicidad Se casa con el fotógrafo argentino Horacio Coppola, en 1935. En 1937, abre un estuido fotográfico y de publicidad con su esposo Horacio Coppola en Buenos Aires. Comienza a realizar retratos de artistas e intelectuales. En 1943, realiza su primera exposición individual de fotografá en Argentina. Se divorcia de Horacio Coppola. Entre 1948 y 1952 realiza fotomontajes semanales para la ilustración de sueños en la sección "El Psicoanálisis le ayudará", de la revista Idilio. Entre 1956 y 1979, convocada por Jorge Romero Brest, director del Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, organiza y dirige el taller de fotografía del mismo. En 1958 se convierte en ciudadana argentina. Enseña fotografía en la Escuala de Humanidades de la Universidad Nacional del NOrdeste, Resistencia, Chaco, entre 1959 y 1960. En 1975 se lleva a cabo la primera exposición footgráfica en Alemania, después de la guerra, en la Bauhaus-Archiv de Berlín. En 1978 participa en la exposición de la Galería del Levante, de Munich, la fotografía experimental en Alemania de 1918 a 1940. En 1981 se celebra una gran exposición retrospectiva de su obra fotográfica y de diseño en la Fundación San Telmo de Buenos Aires. En 1985 abandona la práctica de la fotografía debido a la disminución de su agudeza visual y obsequia parte de su equipo fotográfico a exalumnos y colaboradores. Muere en Buenos Aires, el 24 de diciembre de 1999, a los 95 años de edad. - ################################## Notas de actualidad | Actividades | Documentos / publicaciones | Agenda cultural | Cursos | Links Canales Mujeres en movimiento Poder y liderazgos Sexualidades Salud Estudios de género Formas de violencia Familias y vida cotidiana Economía y trabajo Derechos / legislación Educación / sexismo Cultura Hábitat y medio ambiente Viajes y deporte Servicios del site Postales virtuales Foros de discusión Grete Stern, Silvia Coppola y Sueños de las Mujeres Descubrí a Grete Stern en la exposición "Sueños" del Centro Cultural Recoleta y la Fundación Ceppa (Buenos Aires, Argentina). Ella fue la primera fotógrafa latinoamericana en abordar la problemática de opresión femenina a través del arte fotogrático, especialmente en los 140 fotomontajes basados en los sueños de las lectoras de la revista "Idilio", una publicación femenina popular de moda, cocina y fotonovelas dirigida a las jóvenes casaderas y de amas de casa de los años 50. De origen judío-alemán, Grete Stern estudio en la Bauhaus, abrió con una amiga un estudio de fotografía y diseño y se interesó por el surrealismo. Emigró a la Argentina escapando del nazismo y se radicó en este país hasta su muerte, considerándose a sí misma una fotógrafa argentina y de vanguardia. La exposición tenía reservada un sorpresa más: estaba dedicada a la "Memoria de Silvia Coppola", la hija de Grete Stern y conocida médica feminista que participó del Movimiento de Mujeres difundiendo los derechos sexuales y reproductivos y ocupándose de la problemática del aborto en nuestro país a través de la agrupación Elegir que ella fundó junto a otras feministas argentinas para reclamar el derecho a decidir sobre el propio cuerpo. A pesar de su timidez, Silvia Coppola difundió estos derechos en los medios de comunicación durante los primeros años del retorno a la democracia junto a Safina Newbery. Ambas participaron en debates de TV donde tuvieron que enfrentarse a las rígidas y descalificadoras posturas de religiosos católicos. Pocas conocíamos este vínculo entre la artista feminista y su hija médica, también feminista. En numerosos fotomontajes una Silvia muy joven posa y actúa los sueños de las lectoras para que su madre la fotografíe, protagonizando escenas oníricas como sucede en el sueño nº 67 y el sueño nº 116 Los fotomontajes de Stern eran luego publicados en la sección "El Psicoanálisis la ayudará" de la mencionada revista junto al relato del sueño y una interpretación sobre el significado del mismo a cargo de "Richard Rest", seudónimo que utilizaron Gino Germani y Enrique Butelman, dos importantes intelectuales. Germani fue el fundador de la sociología en Argentina y Butelman fue director de la editorial Paidós, pionera en la difusión del psicoanálisis y de otras corrientes psicologicas como la junguiana en nuestro país y en América Latina (1). A diferencia de sus compañeros, Grete Stern firmó los fotomontajes con su nombre ya que respetaba su trabajo artístico y le interesaba la problemática femenina aún cuando fuese para una revista popular alejada de las vanguardias estéticas y del mundo intelectual de entonces, según expresó su hija Silvia (2). Sueños de opresión y de liberación Muy pronto, cartas de lectoras asfixiadas por la realidad doméstica y el ideal femenino tradicional inundaron la redacción de Idilio y la sección fue un éxito durante tres años. Con la publicación de cada sueño junto al fotomontaje realizado por Stern, más información adicional sobre la vida de la lectora sumada a las interpretaciones, otras mujeres podían verse reflejadas en los sueños y problemáticas expuestas. Las mujeres que viven situaciones similares suelen tener sueños del mismo tipo, lo cual seguramente alentaba a las lectoras a escribir a la revista. Los dos sueños mencionados -donde Silvia aparece como la soñante- muestran una constante en la serie de fotomontajes publicados entre 1948 y 1951. Esto es, situaciones de limitación y opresión como así también de revelación, maduración o liberación. En el mencionado sueño nº 67, la soñante quiere comunicarse por teléfono pero no puede porque literalmente se ha quedado sin boca, algo está "borrando" u oprimiendo su capacidad para expresar sentimientos e ideas. Un sueño bastante común en mujeres de ayer y de hoy. Por el contrario, en el sueño nº 116 otra soñante mira a la Luna que lleva su propio rostro pero con un gesto de seguridad o satisfacción expresando una actitud o cualidad que la soñante descubre de sí misma. El sueño sucede en un lugar fuera del contexto doméstico y de la cultura patriarcal. El resultado del trabajo de Grete Stern fue un recorrido por las percepciones internas de las mujeres y los mensajes de la psiquis femenina, muchas veces, en conflicto con la vida cotidiana pautada por los estereotipos de la romántica enamorada o de la esposa feliz en sus tareas maternales y domésticas como podemos observar en los sueños nº 15, 47, 84, 89, donde las soñantes aparecen agobiadas, arrastrando un gran peso, aparentemente satisfecha dentro de una jaula de canarios, o en la boca del marido del cual depende. En este recorrido por la psiquis de las mujeres de clase media y popular, casadas y solteras, amas de casa, estudiantes y empleadas, los fotomontajes de Stern también revelan visiones que van más allá del mundo doméstico. Sueños de individuación -como seguramente los calificaría Butelman que estudió con Carl Jung en Suiza- donde la necesidad de realización y liberación tocan el nivel del arquetipo femenino, el Sí Mismo, es decir el centro regulador y orientador de toda la psiquis como parece suceder en los sueños nº 13, 18, 23 y 116. Allí las soñantes se conectan con sus instintos y energías vitales a través del simbolismo de árboles o esferas cósmicas. En el sueño nº 13 la soñante expresa esas energías vitales sacándolas por la coronilla de su cabeza como ramas florecidas. En el sueño Nº 18 otra flota plácidamente entre esferas o planetas pudiendo contemplar en esas esferas un símbolo de totalidad y en el sueño nº 23 la visión del árbol con sus raíces expuestas es otra manera de captar la totalidad de la persona, de sí misma. Y como señalamos más arrbia, en el sueño Nº 116 la soñante capta una dimensión arquetípica lunar femenina de sí misma. Por su parte, Germani y Butelman ofrecían a las lectoras unas interpretaciones psicológicas accesibles y simplificadas. Con todo, muchas apuntan a complejos, conflictos, energías internas y/o arquetipos que las soñantes necesitaban reconocer, resolver o integrar según cada caso. Podríamos hacer diferentes interpretaciones de estos sueños "fotografiados" por Grete Stern, pero son los fotomontajes los que nos muestran la problemática femenina, sacando a la luz las limitaciones de los modelos femeninos tradicionales, tímidamente modernizados en la naciente sociedad industrializada y peronista de la postguerra en Argentina. En este sentido, los fotomontajes aparecen en abierta oposición al ideal romántico e ingenuo que proponía la misma revista Idilio en sus páginas. Son la otra cara de la moneda, lo que se filtra y fluye de un Yo más profundo, por debajo de un ego pautado por estereotipos patriarcales vigentes. Estética surrealista y realismo onírico de los fotomontajes Los fotomontajes también pueden tomarse como una obra estética en sí misma sin atender a la fuente de origen (los sueños de las lectoras). De hecho, Grete Stern realizó fotomontajes que no se publicaron y que incluían visiones de cuerpos femeninos desnudos en una playa y modificó otros después de la publicación en la revista. Sin embargo, creo que fue precisamente la capacidad de Grete Stern para captar y retratar lo que emanaba de la psiquis profunda de las lectoras lo que convierte a su trabajo en único y original para la época. Una experiencia donde la psicológica profunda, la estética surrealista y la problemática de género confluyen como los hilos de una misma trama. Algo parecido no se vió hasta muchos después cuando la editorial Paidós publicó un libro de Jung con los sueños dibujados por sus pacientes, por ejemplo (3). En este sentido, el surrealismo de los fotomontajes, tan característico de los sueños, no sólo se debe al interés de Stern por esta corriente estética, sino al modo en que se expresa el inconsciente, a esa verdad subyacente, a ese "realismo" onírico cargado de energías y numinosidad por debajo de la conciencia ordinaria. La Mujer Intermedia Al parecer Grete Stern puso especial énfasis en representar lo que ocurría en el mundo onírico de las lectoras sin perder libertad expresiva. Según cuenta Luis Príamo, ella recibía de Germani una copia fiel del relato de la lectora contando su sueño y sobre ese relato comenzaba a diseñar el fotomontaje apuntando a una escena crucial del mismo o a su desenlace (4). Además de su hija Silvia, su empleada doméstica "Cacho", amigas y amigos actuaban los sueños delante de la lente de Stern siguiendo sus indicaciones, teniendo que difrazarse, utilizar una máscara o adoptar insólitas actitudes a fin de lograr las escenas surrealistas de los sueños. Actualmente, los fotomontajes de Grete Stern puede parecer sencillos frente al lenguaje surrealista y de ciencia ficción que inundan los medios, el cine, la publicidad, el arte y la literatura. Un lenguaje abrumadoramente masculino. Pero conservan una mirada, una cualidad femenina original. Esto es, muestran a una "Mujer Intermedia" -según la expresión de la psiquiatra y psicóloga junguiana Jean Shinoda Bolen- por un lado, pautada por los estereotipos patriarcales y/o culturales. Y por el otro, la emergencia de arquetipos femeninos que la impulsan a ser y actuar desde el propio centro interno sin la intermediación de una energía y de conciencia masculina salvadora o rectora (5). Como obra artística de género, los fotomontajes de Grete Stern nos advierten a las mujeres de hoy sobre los peligros de una mentalidad rígidamente pautada, alentándonos a observar nuestros sueños como una fuente de sabiduría y conocimiento de la problemática femenina de género, personal y colectiva. Analía Bernardo periodista y escritora argentina Investiga mitos, sueños, diosas y arquetipos femeninos analiabernardo@yahoo.com 1. "Sueños, Fotomontajes de Grete Stern, la Serie Completa" editado por la Fundación Ceppa, Centro de Estudios para Políticas Públicas Aplicadas, Buenos Aires 2004. Los imágenes de los fotomontajes han sido tomados de la misma obra. 2. "Al rescate de Grete Stern" entrevista de Moira Soto a Silvia Coppola en el Suplemento Radar de Página 12. 3. No tomamos en cuenta aquí los sueños pintados por artistas plásticos que buscaron expresar el mundo onírico de manera explícita. 4. "Sueños, Fotomontajes de Grete Stern, la Serie Completa" editado por la Fundación Ceppa, Centro de Estudios para Políticas Públicas Aplicadas, Buenos Aires 2004. 5. Jean Shinoda Bolen, "Las Diosas en Cada Mujer", Ed. Kairós, España. Grete Stern's Timeline | 1904 | May 9, 1904 | Eberfeld, Germany | | | 1935 | 1935 Age 30 | | | | 1936 | March 7, 1936 Age 31 | London, United Kingdom | | | 1940 | 1940 Age 35 | Buenos Aires, Argentina | | | 1943 | 1943 Age 38 | | | | 1999 | December 24, 1999 Age 95 | Buenos Aires, Argentina |


--- [Grete Stern - Graphic Arts] ---
[above] Grete Stern (1904-1999), Juan Ramón Jiménez, 1949. Gelatin silver print. Graphic Arts Collection GA2012- in process. Purchased with fund provided by the Program in Latin American Studies. [below] Grete Stern (1904-1999), Pedro Henríquez Ureña, 1942. Gelatin silver print. Graphic Arts Collection GA2012- in process. Purchased with funds provided by the Program in Latin American Studies In the 1930s, the German photographer Grete Stern (1904-1999) married the Argentine photographer Horacio Coppola (1906-2012) and settled in Buenos Aires. They brought with them the ideology of the Bauhaus workshop in Dessau where they met and were important agents in the spread of European modernist theory to South America. Already a prize-winning artist and manager of an acclaimed Berlin photography studio (together with Ellen Auerbach), Stern opened a second studio in Buenos Aires, offering graphic design, advertising, and commercial portraiture. “In 1940 the couple moved to a Modernist house built in the outskirts of the city, designed by architect Wladimiro Acosta …The house became a meeting place for young artists and writers … both Argentine and exiled foreigners. They met to show their work and discuss cultural matters. For example, in 1945 the Madi arts group (Movimiento de Arte Concreto Invención) exhibited for the first time at her house. Stern used the gatherings in her home as an opportunity to photograph her visitors. Among her subjects were exponents of the avant-garde in the arts and letters, including Jorge Luis Borges, Clément Moreau, Renate Schottelius and others.” (Jewish Women’s Archive) Princeton is fortunate to have acquired two of Stern’s portraits. The first is a 1942 image of Pedro Henríquez Ureña (1884-1946) a Dominican intellectual, philosopher, and literary critic, known for his essay “La utopía de América” (1925), among many others. The second, taken in 1949, is a portrait of the Spanish poet Juan Ramón Jiménez (1881-1958), who received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1956. Below is a short video of Stern and her husband with a clip from Coppola’s film Ringl and Pit, in which Stern plays the part of the maid. See also: Grete Stern (Valencià: IVAM Centre Julio González: Generalitat Valenciana, 1995). (SAPH): Photography TR680 .S914 1995 Sueños: Fotomontajes de Grete Stern: Serie Completa (Buenos Aires: Fundación CEPPA, Centro de Estudios para Políticas Públicas Aplicadas, [2003]). (F) TR647 .S789 2003


--- [Grete Stern] ---
Grete Stern Grete Stern, who started her career in the European avant-garde of the late 1920s, produced her major body of work in Argentina, where her modern style placed her among the founders of Argentina’s modern photography. The modernist sensibility Stern developed in bohemian Berlin and at the legendary Bauhaus School shook up the staid approach to photography in Argentina. In 1943 Stern presented her first solo exhibition of portraits in Buenos Aires. Her work showed an unconventional approach to photography: advertisement collages and studies with crystals, objects, and still-lifes. Between 1935 and 1981 she worked as a teacher, photographer, and graphic designer, adding an important series of photomontages, reproductions of artwork, and portraits. Stern is remembered for the avant-garde spirit that characterized her work. In 1935, two months after arriving in Argentina, Grete Stern and her husband Horacio Coppola presented what the magazine Sur called “the first serious exhibition of photographic art in Buenos Aires,” which comprised work produced in Germany and London between 1929 and 1935: portraits, compositions, advertising photographs, and landscapes. Her work showed an unconventional approach to photography: advertisement collages and studies with crystals, objects and still-lifes. Even the most accepted subjects at the time, such as portraits and landscapes, were done in unconventional ways: perfect definition, wide chromatic spectrum, flat lighting, simple poses, and untouched negatives. Between 1935 and 1981 she continued with this work in Argentina, adding an important series of photomontages, reproductions of art work and portraits. Stern brought with her from Germany a modernist sensibility, developed in bohemian Berlin and at the legendary Bauhaus School, that shook up the staid approach to photography in Argentina at that time and established her as one of the founders of Argentine modern photography. Early Life and Family Grete Stern was born in Elberfeld, near Wuppertal, Germany, on May 9, 1904. She was the first child of Frida Hochberger and Louis Stern, who died in 1910. Her family was involved in the textile business and often traveled to visit relatives in England, where Stern attended her first years of elementary school. She studied piano and guitar and from 1923 to 1925 studied graphic design with Prof. Ernst Schneidler at the Kunstgewerbeschule (Am Weissenhof) in Stuttgart. In 1926 she worked as a freelance graphic design and advertising artist in her home town of Wuppertal. After seeing a photography exhibition of Edward Weston and Paul Outerbridge she was inspired to study photography. In 1927 Stern moved to Berlin to live with her brother Walter, who was working as a film editor. He sent her to meet photographer Umbo (Otto Umbehr) who in turn sent her to take private lessons with Walter Peterhans, a photographer well known for his meticulously produced still lives. In 1928 Peterhans also accepted Ellen (Rosenberg) Auerbach as a student. Stern and Auerbach began a profound friendship that lasted throughout their lifetime. “He taught us to see photographically. For him the camera was not just a mechanism to take a photograph. It was a new way of seeing,” she said in an interview in 1992. In 1930 Walter Peterhans was named Master of Photography at the renowned Bauhaus School for art and design in Dessau. Using the proceeds from an inheritance Stern bought his equipment and with Auerbach started a photography studio for advertising, fashion and portrait photography. They thought that calling it “Rosenberg [Ellen’s birth name] and Stern” sounded too much “like a Jewish clothes manufacturer” so they called it ringl+pit, after their childhood nicknames (Ringl for Grete, Pit for Ellen). They decided to sign all their work together. The 1930s In the early 1930s modern advertising was at its beginning and left ample room for creative exploration. ringl+pit’s advertising work represented a departure from current styles, by combining objects, mannequins and cut-up figures in a whimsical fashion. Stern and Auerbach were also influenced by the intense creative environment prevalent in Berlin at the time. Their work explored a new way of portraying women, in line with the image of the New Woman that was emerging at the time. There was a subtle irony in their work about what was accepted and expected of women that was a marked departure from the dominant image of women. Grete’s background in graphic design also came in handy. “What I liked very much was the combination of photography with a well done typography, with well done letters. That was my specialty,” said Stern. In 1933 ringl+pit’s work received positive reviews in the magazine Gebrauchsgraphik and in 1933 they won first prize for one of their advertising posters at the Deuxième Exposition Internationale de la Photographie et du Cinéma in Brussels. In April 1930 Grete Stern followed Peterhans to Dessau to continue her studies. There she met an Argentine photographer and fellow Peterhans student, Horacio Coppola. Auerbach kept the studio running and Stern returned to continue their work together in March 1931. She went back to the Bauhaus for further studies with Peterhans between April 1932 and March 1933. In 1933 the Bauhaus closed its doors, hounded by the Nazis. Although not an activist, Grete was sympathetic to leftist movements and her friends there warned her of the upcoming dangers posed by the new regime. With antisemitism becoming more and more aggressive, in early 1934 Stern left the ringl+pit studio and with her brother Walter emigrated to London. She was able to take with her all of her photographic equipment and furniture. These were productive years for Stern: she opened a photographic and advertisement studio and continued her work on portraits, photographing her friends from the community of German exiles, including Bertolt Brecht, Helene Weigel, Karl Korsch, and Paula Heimann. The French magazine Cahiers d’Art includes an article on the ringl+pit studio. Ellen Auerbach had also had to leave Germany and after a brief stay in Palestine joined Stern in London. Their last work together was photographs for a maternity hospital brochure. Relationship with Coppola and Early Work in Argentina Grete’s brother Walter emigrated to California in 1934. Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola were married in 1935 and traveled to Argentina, Coppola’s native country. In October 1935, shortly after arriving in Buenos Aires, Stern and Coppola mounted a joint exhibition that is considered the first exhibition of modern photography in Argentina. Unsure whether she wanted to stay with Coppola, a pregnant Stern went back to London, where her daughter Silvia was born on March 7, 1936. A few months later she decided to return to Coppola and Argentina, where she lived the rest of her life. Between 1937 and 1941 Stern and Coppola operated a photography, graphic design, and advertising studio in Buenos Aires. They tried to create a modern studio but they were too far ahead for the local way of working. At that time there were no advertising agencies in Buenos Aires. In 1943 Stern presented her first one-woman exhibition in Buenos Aires, which was comprised entirely of portraits. Her stark style was a marked departure from the dramatic and overlit pictures that were prevalent in Argentina at the time. Working as a woman in a male-dominated society was also a challenge. Stern and Coppola’s home was always open to receive Jewish and political exiles from Europe. They forged a community of support, work, and cultural activities with the intellectuals and artists escaping persecution, who also became models for her portrait work. In 1940 the couple moved to a Modernist house built in the outskirts of the city, designed by architect Wladimiro Acosta. It had a studio with natural light and darkroom facilities. A son, Andrés, was born the same year. The following year Stern and Coppola separated. The house became a meeting place for young artists and writers, many of them Coppola’s friends, both Argentine and exiled foreigners. They met to show their work and discuss cultural matters. For example, in 1945 the Madi arts group (Movimiento de Arte Concreto Invención) exhibited for the first time at her house. Stern used the gatherings in her home as an opportunity to photograph her visitors. Among her subjects were exponents of the avant-garde in the arts and letters, including Jorge Luis Borges, Clément Moreau, Renate Schottelius, and others. Stern’s photographs are a precious archive of intellectuals and artists of the time. “I made people see what I saw in a face. I never liked those hard shadows which were very often used at that time. Some critics thought that it was a bad way [to photograph], they said it’s all gray, it doesn’t say anything. But in the end they did like it,” said Stern. These photographs are studies of faces and heads, with simple backgrounds that do not distract from the main subject. Career Success in Argentina By the mid-1940s Stern was a well-established photographer and graphic designer in Buenos Aires. Throughout her career her photographic subjects were quite varied and included portraits, advertising, nature, cityscapes, and indigenous people in the North of Argentina. Stern’s portrait work was often done for pleasure, but her subjects became clients when they saw the product of her work. She also worked with architectural studios and in 1947 the magazine Nuestra Arquitectura published an article on architect Amancio Williams, with Stern’s photographs. At this time she started singing in choirs, which she would continue to do for the next forty years. In 1948 Stern was offered the unusual assignment of providing photos for a column on the interpretation of dreams in the popular weekly women’s magazine Idilio. The column, entitled “Psychoanalysis Will Help You,” was a response to dreams sent in by readers, mostly working-class women. It was written under the pseudonym Richard Rest by renowned sociologist Gino Germani, who later became a professor at Harvard University. The result was a series of about one hundred and fifty photomontages produced between 1948 and 1951 that show Stern’s avant-garde spirit. In these photomontages she portrays women’s oppression and submission in Argentine society with sarcastic and surreal images. The photomontage was an ideal way for Stern to express her ideas about the dominant values. In 1956 Stern created and directed a photography workshop at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Fine Arts Museum,) where she worked until her retirement in 1970. There she met numerous artists and documented their portraits. An invitation in 1959 to teach a photography seminar at the University of the Northeast, in Resistencia, Chaco, gave a creative impulse to her work. In 1964 she obtained a grant from the Fondo Nacional de las Artes and traveled through the northeast of Argentina, producing more than eight hundred photos portraying the lives, craftwork, and daily activities of the aboriginals of the region. It constitutes the most important photo archive on this subject in Argentina. She was interested in showing the poor living conditions of the aboriginal populations and also highlighting their craft-making skills. Back in Buenos Aires she prepared an exhibition of this work at the Municipal Modern Art Museum of Buenos Aires. She hoped that her photographs would help foster change in the living conditions of the Indians from the Northeast, but this did not happen in her lifetime. A selection of these photographs was shown in 1975 at the Bauhaus Archiv in Berlin and later toured some German cities. The suicide of her son Andres in 1965 was a profound shock. Her mother had also taken her life, and Grete herself often suffered from depression. Later Life and Legacy Her teaching activities continued until 1985. Argentine photographer Sara Facio has commented on Stern’s influence in Argentina: “Grete has influenced new generations [of photographers] in two ways. On one hand, with the importance she gives to form. Her photography is not improvised but well thought out. And second by her attitude to life. She is a woman who has been devoted to her vocation, during good times and bad, and young people admire that” (Interview with the author, 1992). In 1972 Stern traveled to the United States, England, France, Greece, and Israel and for the first time since leaving in 1933 she visited Germany. In 1975 the Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin organized the first photographic exhibition after the war, which included Stern’s work. In 1979 Gert Sander, August Sander’s grandson, began representing the ringl+pit work. In 1988 her hometown of Wuppertal organized a ringl+pit retrospective (Emigriert, “Emigrated”) that also included Stern and Auerbach’s later work. And in 1993 the Folkwang Museum in Essen purchased the original negatives and a large body of their work and presented an extensive exhibition of their work. She continued her studio work doing portraits and landscapes until 1980, when she stopped due to failing eyesight. “Photography has given me great happiness. I learned a lot and was able to say things I wanted to say and show,” said Stern in 1992. Grete Stern died in Buenos Aires on December 24, 1999 at the age of ninety-five. Grete Stern, who started her career in the European avant-garde of the late 1920s, produced her major body of work in Argentina, where her modern and different style placed her among the founders of Argentina’s modern photography. More on Grete Stern Amplify Jewish women’s stories—Donate now to Jewish Women’s Archive Before you close this article, please consider supporting the Jewish Women’s Archive and uplifting Jewish women’s voices. At JWA, we preserve the voices of Jewish women and gender-expansive people past and present, share them freely with millions online, and empower a new generation of Jewish feminists to lead with courage, creativity, and conviction. But none of this happens without you. JWA is an independent nonprofit— we rely on people, like you, who believe that history belongs to all of us and that the voices of Jewish women must remain powerful, and heard. Every contribution—no matter the size—helps us document, teach, and inspire through Jewish women’s stories. It takes less than a minute to make a difference. Thank you for standing with JWA when it matters most. Thank you for being a part of the JWA community, Judith Rosenbaum, CEO
