=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sonam Wangchuk - Wikipedia]
Sonam Wangchuk (born 1 September 1966) is an Indian activist, innovator, education reformer, and environmentalist. [7] He is the founding-director of the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), which was founded in 1988 by a group of students who had been, in his own words, the 'victims' of an alien education system ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sonam_Wangchuk

[Sonam Wangchuk's Journey From Innovation to Imprisonment]
In 2013, on repeated requests from students community of Ladakh, Wangchuk helped launch the New Ladakh Movement (NLM), a social campaign and Ladakh's version of Green Party with the aim of working for sustainable education, environment and economy.
URL: https://voiceofladakh.in/2025/09/sonam-wangchuks-journey-from-innovation-to-imprisonment/

[Grokipedia: Sonam Wangchuk]
Learn more about Sonam Wangchuk on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Sonam_Wangchuk

[Sonam Wangchuk (Engineer) - Wikipedia | PDF]
In 2013, on repeated requests from students community of Ladakh, Wangchuk helped launch the. New Ladakh Movement (NLM), a social campaign and Ladakh's ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/877386157/Sonam-Wangchuk-engineer-Wikipedia

[Sonam Wangchuk, the innovative engineer of ladakh]
In 2013, on several invitations from students society of Ladakh, Sonam Wangchuk, assisted in the launch the NLM-New Ladakh Movement. It was a social campaign which aimed of working for sufficient education, environment and economic growth of the state.
URL: https://timesapplaud.com/sonam-wangchuk-the-innovative-engineer-of-ladakh/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sonam Wangchuk - Wikipedia] ---
Sonam Wangchuk (born 1 September 1966) is an Indian activist, innovator, education reformer, and environmentalist. He is the founding-director of the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), which was founded in 1988 by a group of students who had been, in his own words, the 'victims' of an alien education system foisted on Ladakh. He is also known for designing the SECMOL campus that runs on solar energy and uses no fossil fuels for cooking, lighting or heating.
Wangchuk was instrumental in the launch of Operation New Hope in 1994, a collaboration of the government, village communities and the civil society to bring reforms in the government school system. He invented the Ice Stupa technique that creates artificial glaciers, used for storing winter water in the form of a cone-shaped ice heap.
Wangchuk's contributions to Ladakh’s education sector and climate-related challenges, and his innovative solutions to local problems have earned him numerous accolades. As of 2025, he has received around 15 awards, including the Ramon Magsaysay Award (2018), the title of Eminent Technologist of the Himalayan Region by IIT Mandi (2018), and the Global Award for Sustainable Architecture (2017).




--- [Sonam Wangchuk's Journey From Innovation to Imprisonment] ---
Sonam Wangchuk’s Journey From Innovation to Imprisonment I, like almost everybody, was not knowledgeable about Sonam Wangchuk until and unless I read about the model behind the famous Bollywood film “Three Idiots” – Somam Wangchuk that was characterized by Amir Khan who played the role of Phungsunk Wangdo in the movie that has the central theme as education with innovation. After watching this movie my mind propelled towards knowing about this great innovative and reformative personality who contributed a lot to the humanity in general and to the people of Ladakh in particular. An engineer by profession he was endowed with tremendous knowledge of engineering science. The above-mentioned movie reflected that Amir Khan played the best role having guts of modernity and scientific spirit. At the same time, he played a role of an ideal student who is at once thinking out of box and not stickled to the conventional education system that makes the children bound to grades and marks hence putting the hidden potential to certain limits. Wangchuk came into the spotlight in 2009, when his story inspired Aamir Khan’s character Phunsukh Wangdu in the film 3-Idiots directed by Rajkumar Hirani. He has been referred as “The real life Phunsukh Wangdu”. Wangchuk has disavowed the comparison. Before I go ahead with this write up, let me put down something from the biographical and professional accounts of Sonam Wangchuk here. Although, it will be very much imitation, if I imitate the details in length, I would, even though, record some of the details from his life history and try to draw a logical conclusion about what turned this innovative man into a prisoner. * Click to Follow Voice of Ladakh on WhatsApp * “Early life and education: Wangchuk was born in 1966 in Alchi in the Leh district of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (now in the Union Territory of Ladakh). He was not enrolled in a school until the age of 9, as there were no schools in his village. His mother taught him all the basics in his own mother tongue until that age. In 1975, his father, Sonam Wangyal was elected into the Jammu and Kashmir Government where he became a minister. At the age of 9, he was taken to Srinagar and enrolled in a school there. Since he looked different compared to the other students, he would get addressed in a language that he did not understand, due to which his lack of responsiveness was mistaken for him being stupid. He recalls this period as the darkest part of his life. Unable to bear the treatment, in 1977, he escaped alone to Delhi, where he pleaded his case to the school principal at Kendriya Vidyalay. Wangchuk completed his B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering from National Institute of Technology Srinagar (then REC Srinagar) in 1987.Due to differences with his father over the choice of engineering stream, he had to finance his own education. He also went for two years of higher studies in Earthen Architecture at Craterre School of Architecture in Grenoble, France, in 2011. Professional Career: In 1988, after his graduation, Wangchuk (with his brother and five peers) started Students’ Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL). After experimenting with school reforms in government high school at Saspol, SECMOL launched Operation New Hope in collaboration with the government education department and the village population. From June 1993 until August 2005, Wangchuk also founded and worked as the editor of Ladakh’s only print magazine Ladags Melong In 2001. He was appointed to be an advisor for the education in the Hill Council Government. In 2002, together with other NGO heads, he founded Ladakh Voluntary Network (LVN), a network of Ladakhi NGOs, and served in its executive committee as the secretary till 2005. He was appointed to the Drafting Committee of the Ladakh Hill Council Government’s Vision Document Ladakh 2025 and entrusted with the formulation of the policy on Education and Tourism in 2004. The document was formally launched by Manmohan Singh, the Prime Minister of India in 2005. In 2005, Wangchuk was appointed as a member in the National Governing Council for Elementary Education in the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. From 2007 to 2010, he worked as an education advisor for MS, a Danish NGO working to support the Ministry of Education for education reforms. In late 2013, Wangchuk invented and built a prototype of the Ice Stupa which is an artificial glacier that stores the wasting stream waters during the winters in the form of giant ice cones or stupas, and releases the water during late spring as they start melting, which is the perfect time when the farmers need water. He was appointed to the Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education in 2013. In 2014, he was appointed to the Expert panel for framing the J&K State Education Policy and Vision Document. Since 2015, Sonam has started working on establishing Himalayan Institute of Alternatives. He is concerned about how most of the Universities; especially those in the mountains have become irrelevant to realities of life. In 2016, Wangchuk initiated a project called Farm Stays Ladakh, which provides tourists to stay with local families of Ladakh, run by mothers and middle-aged women. The project was officially inaugurated by Chetsang Rinpoche on 18 June 2016. Political Career: In 2013, on repeated requests from students community of Ladakh, Wangchuk helped launch the New Ladakh Movement (NLM), a social campaign and Ladakh’s version of Green Party with the aim of working for sustainable education, environment and economy. It also aimed at uniting all local political leaders under one banner for the growth and development of Ladakh. Eventually, the members decided to make it into a non-political social movement. Boycott of Chinese products: In June 2020, in response to the India-China border skirmishes, Sonam Wangchuk appealed to Indians to use “wallet power” and boycott Chinese products. This appeal was covered by major media houses and supported by various celebrities. On 26 January 2023, to highlight the effects of climate change on the fragile ecosystem of Ladakh and to demand its protection under the Sixth Schedule of the Indian Constitution, Wangchuk attempted to go on a fast at the Khardungla pass. However, the authorities allegedly prevented him from going to Khardungla by putting him under house arrest, restricting his movement, as well as restricting people from visiting him. The police denied the charges, stating that he had not been given permission to enter Khardung La pass, citing temperatures being unsuitable for the fast, at less than -40°C. In March 2024, he started a fast-unto-death to press for his demand for constitutional safeguards for the Union Territory and protection of Ladakh from industrial and mining lobbies. Additionally, he began a 21-day Climate Fast hunger strike for giving statehood to Union Territory Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule. On 30 September 2024, during his walk by foot from Ladakh to Delhi for their demands, Wangchuk and his supporters were detained by Delhi Police at the Singhu border and were released on 2 October 2024. In Delhi, they announced that they would go on an indefinite hunger strike if they would not be allowed to meet either Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Droupadi Murmu or Union Home Minister Amit Shah to address their demand of including Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India. On 26 September 2025, Wangchuk was arrested in Ladakh, under the National Security Act and shifted to Jodhpur Jail, following statehood protests, on charges of inciting mob violence with provocative statements. Despite the world level popularity and fame reflected by the awards and honors including 2018 Ramon Magsaysay Award, Honorary D. Litt by Symbiosis International School, Eminent Technologist of the Himalayan Region by IIT Mandi, 2017-Indians for Collective Action (ICA) Honor Award, San Francisco, GQ Men of the Year Awards, Social Entrepreneur of the Year, Global Award for Sustainable Architecture, State Award for outstanding environmentalist by J&K Govt.2016-Rolex Award for Enterprise, International Terra Award for best earth building. UNESCO Chair Earthen Architecture, by CRATerre France, 2008- Real Heroes Award by CNN-IBN TV, 2004- The Green Teacher Award by Sanctuary Asia, 2002-Ashoka Fellowship for Social Entrepreneurship, by Ashoka USA, 2001-Man of the Year by The Week, 1996-Governor’s Medal for educational reform in Jammu and Kashmir by the grateful world in terms of bestowing him with the above mentioned awards what turned him into an anti-national figure. It is only the commitment to the people of Ladakh and the people of the country that made him think in terms of becoming the voice of the unheard people who since the ages have been neglected on the pretext that the region is naturally cut off from rest of the world and can’t be done too much about it. The question arises in the mind of every lay man like me that why such an intellectual was compelled to think so and which ultimately resulted in his imprisonment that too under the Nation Safety Act (NSA) which is meant for the criminals of anti-national security degree like Terrorists and Armed rebels. Instead of putting him behind the bars he might have been given a patient hearing by both the govt. of Ladakh and the govt. of India. The most rash type social medial figures like Major Gorav Ariya (Retd. Army Major) who often talks about the current political situations like cross border terrorism sponsored by Pakistan and Bangladesh etc. The person who often targets Pakistan for her cheap policies on govt level and Aristocracy shown by Pak. Army hence disfiguring the Democracy of Pakistan is now speaking in favour of Sonam Wangchuk. Not only the Major, but another Retd. Army Officer- General Bakshi is seen speaking in support of Sonam Wangchuk. Besides, all the moderate and extremist type politicians speak in favour of him. His entire life account is void of any such activity that could amount to any punishment of such an intense degree for the clashes between public and police on 25 September when the youth of Leh allegedly became violent, pelted stones on police personals, tried to damage the public property and burnt down to ashes the BJP office Leh. To conclude this write up let me put down that govt. must reconsider the punishment given to such a personality who has been a source of motivation and inspiration to the whole nation and the people of Ladakh. The demands that he had kept before the Indian Govt. must be given a due consideration as he has contributed to such an extent that he deserves the honor and prestige instead of imprisonment. Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of Voice of Ladakh or its editorial team. 0 Comments Leave a Reply


--- [Grokipedia: Sonam Wangchuk] ---
Sonam Wangchuk Early Life and Background Family and Upbringing Sonam Wangchuk was born on May 11, 1964, in Sankar village near Leh in Ladakh, India, and is a native of Khakshal village in the same region. His upbringing occurred in the harsh, high-altitude environment of the trans-Himalayan area, characterized by extreme cold, sparse population, and a predominantly Buddhist cultural milieu that emphasized resilience and community ties.[4] Wangchuk's family maintained notable connections within Ladakhi society; his mother was the sister of politician Thupstan Chhewang, providing links to local political and religious figures. His father served as a security officer to the 14th Dalai Lama in Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh, from 1973 to 1975, an assignment that exposed the young Wangchuk to the spiritual leader and fostered early impressions of duty and service. In 1975, the family relocated to Delhi following his father's transfer, broadening Wangchuk's exposure beyond the isolated Ladakhi valleys.[4][6] This period shaped Wangchuk's formative years, blending traditional Ladakhi values with interactions in diverse settings, though his father's preference leaned toward a civil service career for his son rather than military enlistment. A close relative, Colonel Wangdus, ultimately influenced his decision to pursue a path in the Indian Army, reflecting familial military traditions amid the modest socioeconomic context of rural Ladakh.[7]Education and Early Influences Sonam Wangchuk was born on May 11, 1964, in Sankar village near Leh, Ladakh, into a family native to the Khakshal region.[4] At approximately five years old in 1969, he relocated to Solan, Himachal Pradesh, where he attended St. Luke's School through the fourth standard, completing this phase by around 1973.[4] He later pursued secondary education at Modern School on Barakhamba Road in New Delhi.[8] Wangchuk subsequently earned a bachelor's degree in history from Hindu College at the University of Delhi.[8] His upbringing in the high-altitude, austere environment of Ladakh, characterized by harsh winters and remote terrain, contributed to the physical endurance evident in his later military service, though specific personal influences from this period remain undocumented in available accounts.[4]Military Career Enlistment and Training Sonam Wangchuk joined the Indian Army in 1987 through the Short Service Commission route.[9] He underwent rigorous officer training at the Officers Training Academy (OTA) in Chennai, which prepared him for leadership roles in infantry operations.[4][10] Following successful completion of the OTA course, Wangchuk was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant into the 4th Battalion of the Assam Regiment on December 14, 1987.[9] His initial assignment involved serving as a Company Commander in Ukhrul, Manipur, where he gained early experience in counter-insurgency environments.[7] Early in his career, Wangchuk participated in the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) deployment to Sri Lanka from 1987 to 1990, honing skills in high-intensity conflict zones amid complex terrain and urban warfare scenarios.[7] This period of training and operational exposure laid the foundation for his subsequent specialization in mountain warfare upon deputation to the Ladakh Scouts.[4]Early Service and Deployments Wangchuk was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the 4th Battalion of the Assam Regiment on 13 June 1987, following training at the Officers Training Academy in Chennai.[4] His initial assignments included serving as a company commander in Ukhrul, Manipur, where he gained experience in counter-insurgency operations amid the region's ethnic conflicts and terrain challenges.[4] Early in his career, Wangchuk participated in the Indian Peace Keeping Force deployment to Sri Lanka from 1987 to 1990, contributing to operations against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in a complex urban and jungle warfare environment.[7] Recognizing his aptitude for high-altitude operations rooted in his Ladakhi background, he was subsequently deputed to the Indus Wing of the Ladakh Scouts, a specialized infantry unit focused on mountain warfare along the northern borders.[4][11] With the Ladakh Scouts, Wangchuk undertook deployments in extreme high-altitude sectors, including service on the Siachen Glacier, where he earned the Siachen Glacier Medal for operations in sub-zero conditions exceeding 20,000 feet.[4] These postings honed his expertise in cold-weather tactics, logistics under hypoxia, and surveillance along the Line of Control, preparing the unit for subsequent border confrontations.[4]Service with Ladakh Scouts Sonam Wangchuk, commissioned into the 4th Battalion of the Assam Regiment after training at the Officers Training Academy in Chennai, was subsequently deputed to the Indus Wing of the Ladakh Scouts due to his proficiency in high-altitude operations.[4] This specialized infantry regiment, raised in 1963 and recruited mainly from Ladakhi Buddhists and Muslims, focuses on mountain warfare in the Himalayan border regions, operating in altitudes exceeding 15,000 feet amid severe weather conditions.[12] His posting to the Ladakh Scouts followed earlier deployments, including service in the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka during the late 1980s.[7] There, Wangchuk led patrols and defensive operations along the Line of Control in the Ladakh sector, contributing to the regiment's mandate of securing vulnerable high-altitude posts against potential incursions. The Ladakh Scouts' rigorous training in acclimatization, avalanche survival, and tactical maneuvers in snow-covered terrain aligned with Wangchuk's growing expertise, preparing the unit for sustained vigilance in sub-zero environments.[13] By the mid-1990s, as he advanced in rank, Wangchuk's leadership emphasized rapid response capabilities and local knowledge integration, enhancing the regiment's effectiveness in isolated outposts. His service underscored the Scouts' role as "Snow Warriors," earning multiple unit citations for endurance in operations like border skirmishes and reconnaissance missions prior to major escalations.[14]Role in the Kargil War Strategic Context of Operation Vijay In early 1999, Pakistani military forces, under the direction of General Pervez Musharraf, initiated a covert infiltration operation across the Line of Control (LoC) into the Kargil district of Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir. Disguised as Kashmiri militants, these troops occupied approximately 130 strategic mountain peaks and ridges, including positions at elevations up to 18,000 feet, overlooking National Highway 1A—the vital Srinagar-Leh supply route. The objective was to interdict Indian logistics to Ladakh, revive the Kashmir insurgency, and compel international intervention following the February 1999 Lahore Declaration, which had signaled improved bilateral relations. This misadventure exploited the high-altitude terrain's natural defenses and India's seasonal troop withdrawals for winter, occurring in the shadow of both nations' 1998 nuclear tests, which raised escalation risks.[15][16][17] Indian forces first detected the intrusions on May 3, 1999, when a patrol from the 13 Jammu and Kashmir Rifles went missing near Batalik, followed by reports from local shepherds of unfamiliar personnel. Reconnaissance confirmed extensive Pakistani entrenchment, with artillery fire targeting the highway and endangering over 30,000 troops in Ladakh. The incursion threatened to isolate Siachen Glacier outposts and undermine India's control over the region, prompting urgent mobilization of additional divisions, including the 8th Mountain Division and 3rd Infantry Division. Despite diplomatic protests and Pakistan's denials—attributing actions to "freedom fighters"—India rejected escalation beyond the LoC to avert nuclear confrontation or broader war, adhering to a strategy of calibrated retaliation focused on territorial reclamation.[18][15][17] Operation Vijay was formally launched on May 26, 1999, under the directive of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Chief of Army Staff General Ved Prakash Malik, integrating ground offensives with Operation Safed Sagar's air campaigns. The strategy emphasized containment of further advances, systematic eviction through artillery barrages, infantry assaults under covering fire, and precision airstrikes, while leveraging superior numbers and acclimatization in harsh conditions averaging -10°C. Constraints included logistical challenges at altitudes exceeding 16,000 feet, Pakistani defensive advantages from prepared positions, and international pressure—particularly from the United States—for restraint, culminating in President Bill Clinton's July 4 intervention pressuring Pakistan's withdrawal. This approach succeeded in recapturing all peaks by July 26, 1999, restoring the status quo ante, though at the cost of 527 Indian fatalities.[18][19][15]Leadership at Chorbat La Major Sonam Wangchuk, commanding a column of approximately 40 soldiers from the Indus Wing of the Ladakh Scouts, was tasked with recapturing the strategic Chorbat La heights in the Batalik sub-sector, occupied by Pakistani intruders during the initial stages of Operation Vijay in May 1999.[3][20] The position, at altitudes exceeding 16,000 feet, featured treacherous icy slopes and was subjected to intense enemy artillery shelling and small arms fire, complicating the ascent in sub-zero temperatures around minus 6 degrees Celsius.[21][22] Wangchuk adapted the assault plan by dividing his force into two groups to flank the enemy positions, directing Subedar Tshering Stobdan to lead one element while he commanded the other, enabling a coordinated envelopment despite the numerical disadvantage against an estimated 135 Pakistani troops.[20][3] Leading from the front, he navigated vertical ice walls and exposed his men to heavy fire to close in on intruders entrenched along the ridge line, personally engaging threats to secure vantage points and neutralize machine-gun posts.[4][23] This tactical maneuver, executed primarily between May 31 and June 1, 1999, resulted in the eviction of all enemy elements with minimal Indian casualties, marking the first successful recapture of a peak in the Kargil conflict.[3][21] His leadership exemplified resolute decision-making under extreme conditions, sustaining troop morale through direct oversight and rapid repositioning to counter Pakistani counterattacks, thereby denying the enemy observation over key valleys and facilitating subsequent Indian advances in the sector.[4] The operation's success stemmed from leveraging the Ladakh Scouts' high-altitude expertise, honed in the region's harsh terrain, to outmaneuver a larger, better-equipped foe reliant on fixed defenses.[20][24]Tactical Execution and Outcomes On 30 May 1999, Major Sonam Wangchuk led a column of approximately 40 soldiers from the Indus Wing of the Ladakh Scouts to occupy a strategic ridge line at around 5,500 meters in the Chorbat La sector, aiming to pre-empt Pakistani intrusion amid ongoing Operation Vijay.[25] The advance proceeded under cover of darkness and terrain familiarity, leveraging the Ladakh Scouts' expertise in high-altitude warfare, but the force soon encountered intense enemy fire from well-entrenched positions held by Pakistani Northern Light Infantry troops, estimated at over 100 strong.[3][20] Displaying resolute leadership, Wangchuk held his column intact despite casualties and executed a flanking counter-ambush, personally charging a near-vertical cliff to assault Point 5140 in hand-to-hand combat, where he eliminated four enemy soldiers.[25] His troops followed, overrunning a machine-gun post under sustained fire, which neutralized a key defensive asset and allowed consolidation for further advances.[3] Pressing the momentum without artillery support or reinforcements, the unit captured additional positions, including Point 5353, after fierce close-quarters fighting that inflicted at least six confirmed enemy fatalities directly attributable to Wangchuk's actions.[25][24] The operation succeeded in securing Chorbat La as the first Indian tactical victory in the Kargil conflict, denying Pakistanis a dominant vantage point overlooking the Nubra Valley and Siachen Glacier approach routes, which forced enemy withdrawals in adjacent sectors.[20][24] Wangchuk's force held the captured heights for 14 days against counterattacks and shelling, sustaining the position until relieved and enabling subsequent Indian offensives that contributed to broader momentum in the war.[20] Indian casualties included several soldiers killed or wounded in the initial ambush and assaults, though exact figures remain operationally sensitive; Pakistani losses exceeded Indian ones in the sector, with reports of routed intruders abandoning equipment.[3] This localized success demonstrated the efficacy of infantry-led, terrain-exploiting tactics in extreme conditions, influencing later Kargil strategies by restoring Indian initiative in the northern theater.[24]Awards and Honors Maha Vir Chakra Citation The Maha Vir Chakra, India's second-highest peacetime gallantry award, was conferred on Major Sonam Wangchuk for his actions during Operation Vijay in the Kargil sector on 15 August 1999, as notified in Gazette of India No. 17 Pres/2000 dated 15 August 1999.[2] The official citation describes his leadership in the Batalik sub-sector as follows: "On 30 May 1999, Major Sonam Wangchuk was leading a column of The Indus Wing, Ladakh Scouts as a part of ongoing operations in Op VIJAY in the Batalik sub sector. During the advance the column came under heavy enemy ambush. The enemy had established fire from well coordinated dominating positions equipped with medium machine guns, rocket launchers and artillery guns. One NCO got killed and some soldiers injured. In this situation Major Sonam Wangchuk displayed exceptional bravery and leadership qualities by holding his column together and executing a daring counter ambush. Thereafter the column continued the mission and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy. The enemy positions were assaulted and cleared. A vital infiltration route was sealed. Throughout Major Sonam Wangchuk displayed gallantry, leadership and courage of a high order."[2][25][26] This citation highlights Wangchuk's role in countering a numerically superior Pakistani force—estimated at over 130 intruders—from entrenched positions in extreme high-altitude terrain, where his approximately 40-man column recovered enemy weapons including heavy machine guns and sealed a key infiltration axis along the Chorbat La feature, contributing to the broader eviction of intruders from the Line of Control vicinity.[3] The operation occurred under harsh glaciated conditions at elevations exceeding 5,500 meters, underscoring the physical and tactical demands met through Wangchuk's initiative, which prevented further enemy consolidation and supported subsequent Indian advances in the sector.[2][27]Other Decorations and Recognitions In addition to the Maha Vir Chakra, Colonel Sonam Wangchuk received several campaign and service medals recognizing his extensive deployments in high-altitude and operational theaters, as well as his long tenure in the Indian Army.[4] These awards reflect standard commendations for personnel of the Ladakh Scouts and Assam Regiment involved in border defense and special operations.| Medal | Purpose/Context | |---|---| | Samanya Seva Medal | For distinguished active service | | Special Service Medal | For specialized counter-insurgency duties | | Siachen Glacier Medal | For service in the Siachen Glacier region | | Operation Vijay Star | For participation in the 1999 Kargil operations | | Operation Vijay Medal | For overall contributions during Operation Vijay | | Sainya Seva Medal | For exemplary non-combatant service | | High Altitude Service Medal | For sustained high-altitude deployments | | Videsh Seva Medal | For overseas service, including IPKF in Sri Lanka | | 50th Anniversary of Independence Medal | Commemorative for India's independence jubilee | | 20 Years Long Service Medal | For extended meritorious service | | 9 Years Long Service Medal | For initial long service milestone |


--- [Sonam Wangchuk (Engineer) - Wikipedia | PDF] ---
Sonam Wangchuk: Innovator and Educator Sonam Wangchuk is an Indian engineer and education reformist known for founding the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL) and for his innovations like the Ice Stupa technique for water conservation. He has played a significant role in educational reforms in Ladakh and has received numerous awards for his contributions to sustainable architecture and social entrepreneurship. Wangchuk is also active in political movements advocating for Ladakh's autonomy and environmental protection. Sonam Wangchuk: Innovator and Educator


--- [Sonam Wangchuk, the innovative engineer of ladakh] ---
Sonam Wangchuk is an Indian educationalist and innovator and social reformist. He is an engineer by profession. This is man from Ladakh, whose incredible life had prompted the filmmakers of ‘3 Idiots’ to draw up the extraordinary character of Phunsukh Wangdu. About his early life Born in 1966, in Uleytokpo, in Leh district of Ladakh, Wangchuk was only enrolled in a school at the age of 9. He learnt his basics from his mother as there was no school in his village. His father was, a politician who became the minister in state government. Wangchuk finished his B.Tech in 1987 and became a Mechanical Engineer from National Institute of Engineering, Srinagar in 1987. Sonam had difference with his father and the reason for the same he choose to finance his own education. In 2011, he left to attain additional 2years degree course in Earthen Architecture from France. Role as an innovator and social reformist In 1988, this 52-year-old engineer from Leh established a revolutionary school, which admitted kids written off as failures by others. Wangchuk’s only purpose was to make learning recreational and practical instead than subjecting children to just learning. He had garnered national attention from this act. Other ground-breaking innovations from this incredible engineer, was the ‘Ice Stupas’ and solar heated mud huts which put him on the multinational radar for uncovering endurable outcomes in risky topography. In 1994, in collaboration with the government and civil society, Sonam Wangchuk launched operation New Hope to bring reforms in the schools system of the state of Jammu and Kashmir. The engineer reformist was later appointed in the Expert panel for framing the state education policy and vision document. Later in 2015, he started working on designing the Himalayan Institute of alternative, as he was concerned about higher education in the mountains valleys. He wanted to set good universities in those tough terrains. In the year 2016, Wangchuk commenced a project called Farm Stays Ladakh. This social engineer wanted to involve local people to generate income through. Tourism. tourists could stay with local families of Ladakh, which was run by women. Sonam is also the founding-director of the Students’ Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh. Engineer Wangchuk is known for constructing the SECMOL campus in 1988,that runs fully on solar energy without using fossil fuels for cooking, lighting or heating. Political Work In 2013, on several invitations from students society of Ladakh, Sonam Wangchuk, assisted in the launch the NLM-New Ladakh Movement. It was a social campaign which aimed of working for sufficient education, environment and economic growth of the state. It also intended to unite all the political leaders of Ladakh under one banner. Regardless its social idea, the purpose of this engineer cum socialist could not convert into electoral victory. Finally, the members agreed to make it into a non-political social movement. Engineer’s inspiration Sonam was inspired to take up such causes was mainly due to the empathy. The lives if common people around him forced him to take up issues like water problems, education etc. He believe in the fact that to make the country a great nation one should become a great citizen first. Recently, in May 2020, he even appealed to people to boycott Chinese product in order show concern for local made goods. He was well supported by media and various celebrities in this Wallet power campaign. Honours and awards This engineer turned reformist had received many awards and accolades for his marvellous work. In 2018 he received the Ramon Magsaysay Award and honorary doctorate in literature from Symbols institute. He also got the award for Eminent Technologist of the Himalayan Region by IIT Mandi same year. Apart from above he is an recipient of GQ Men of the Year Awards, Social Entrepreneur of the Year and a State Award for outstanding environmentalist by J&K Govt.
