=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[P. W. Botha - Wikipedia]
Botha also played a key role in South Africa's nuclear weapons program and its military interventions in Angola and Namibia during the Cold War. Botha was elected leader of the National Party and assumed office as Prime Minister on 4 September 1978, following the resignation of John Vorster.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P._W._Botha

[37 Facts About PW Botha - FactSnippet]
7. At age 30, PW Botha was elected head of the National Party Youth in 1946, and two years later was elected to the House of Assembly as representative of George in the southern Cape Province in the general election which saw the beginning of the National Party's 46-year tenure in power.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-pw-botha.html

[P. W. Botha Explained]
At age 30, Botha was elected head of the National Party Youth in 1946, and two years later was elected to the House of Assembly as representative of George in the southern Cape Province in the general election which saw the beginning of the National Party's 46-year tenure in power.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/P._W._Botha/

[P. W. Botha - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Pieter Willem Botha (12 January 1916 – 31 October 2006), commonly known as "P. W." and Die Groot Krokodil (Afrikaans for " The Big Crocodile "), was the prime minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and the first executive state president from 1984 to 1989. First elected to Parliament in 1948, Botha was for eleven years head of the Afrikaner National Party and the South African government ...
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/11872418

[P. W. Botha Facts for Kids]
At 30, Botha became the head of the National Party Youth in 1946. Two years later, he was elected to the House of Assembly for the George area. This was the ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/P._W._Botha


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [P. W. Botha - Wikipedia] ---
Pieter Willem Botha,  (locally  BOOR-tə, Afrikaans pronunciation: [ˈpitər ˈvələm ˈbuəta]; 12 January 1916 – 31 October 2006) was a South African politician who served as the last Prime Minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and as the first executive State President of South Africa from 1984 until his resignation in 1989. Nicknamed 'Die Groot Krokodil' (Afrikaans for 'The Big Crocodile') due to his tough political stance, he was considered the final hardline leader of South Africa during the apartheid era.
Born on a small farm in the Orange Free State in 1916, Botha was raised in a conservative Afrikaner family with strong nationalist beliefs. Botha studied law at Grey University College but left before completing his degree to pursue a career in politics. He became involved in the National Party's youth wing and worked as a political organizer, laying the foundation for his rise within the party. He supported the NPs opposition to South Africa's involvement in World War II on the side of Britain, and actively campaigned for a German victory. In the 1948 general election, he was elected to the House of Assembly as the MP from George, a position he held for over four decades. His influence within the party grew, and in 1958, he was appointed Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs by Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd. In 1961, Botha became Minister of Community Development and Coloured Affairs, overseeing forced removals, including the controversial clearance of District Six. His role expanded in 1966, when he was appointed Minister of Defence by Prime Minister John Vorster. During his tenure, he transformed the South African Defense Forces, increasing military spending, implementing conscription, and launching covert operations against anti-apartheid movements. Botha also played a key role in South Africa's nuclear weapons program and its military interventions in Angola and Namibia during the Cold War.
Botha was elected leader of the National Party and assumed office as Prime Minister on 4 September 1978, following the resignation of John Vorster. His tenure was marked by a focus on maintaining apartheid through military expansion and internal security measures while introducing limited reforms, such as the Tricameral Parliament in 1983, which granted limited political representation to Coloured and Indian South Africans, but excluded Black South Africans. The 1983 referendum on the Tricameral Parliament passed with support from white voters. In 1984, Botha became South Africa's first executive State President, consolidating executive power and continuing apartheid policies. His presidency faced increasing internal unrest, protests, and international sanctions. After suffering a stroke in 1989, he resigned as Leader of the National Party and later State President, and was succeeded by F. W. de Klerk.
After resigning as State President, Botha remained influential in South African politics. He opposed the reforms initiated by his successor, F.W. de Klerk, particularly the negotiations to dismantle apartheid and the unbanning of the ANC, and advocated for a no vote in the 1992 referendum. Botha became a vocal critic of the move toward democracy, maintaining his belief in the necessity of apartheid. In the late 1990s, he faced legal challenges related to his role in the apartheid-era policies, notably during the Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearings, where he was called to account for his actions but refused to fully cooperate. Botha's health continued to decline, and he died at an unknown date in 2006, at the age of 90.




--- [37 Facts About PW Botha - FactSnippet] ---
PW Botha served as the last prime minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and the first executive state president of South Africa from 1984 to 1989. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,139 | PW Botha served as the last prime minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and the first executive state president of South Africa from 1984 to 1989. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,139 | PW Botha resigned as leader of the ruling National Party in February 1989 after suffering a stroke and six months later was coerced to leave the presidency. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,140 | In early 1998, when PW Botha refused to testify at the Mandela government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, he was supported by the far-right Conservative Party, which had earlier contested his rule as the official opposition. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,141 | Pieter Willem PW Botha was born on a farm in the Paul Roux district of the Orange Free State Province, the son of Afrikaner parents. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,142 | PW Botha initially attended the Paul Roux School and matriculated from Bethlehem Voortrekker High School. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,143 | PW Botha began working for the National Party as a political organiser in the neighbouring Cape Province. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,144 | At age 30, PW Botha was elected head of the National Party Youth in 1946, and two years later was elected to the House of Assembly as representative of George in the southern Cape Province in the general election which saw the beginning of the National Party's 46-year tenure in power. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,145 | In 1958 PW Botha was appointed Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs by Hendrik Verwoerd, and in 1961 was appointed to the new Department of Coloured Affairs and became Minister of Community Development. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,146 | In 1966, PW Botha was appointed Minister of Defence by Verwoerd and served under the government of John Vorster, upon Verwoerd's murder later that year. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,147 | When Vorster resigned following allegations of his involvement in the Muldergate Scandal in 1978, PW Botha was elected as his successor by the National Party caucus, besting the electorate's favourite, 45-year-old Foreign Minister Pik PW Botha. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,148 | PW Botha was keen to promote constitutional reform, and hoped to implement a form of federal system in South Africa that would allow for greater "self-rule" for black homelands, while still retaining the supremacy of a white central government, and foremost expand the rights of Coloureds and Asians in order to widen support for the government. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,149 | From his ascension to the cabinet, PW Botha pursued an ambitious military policy designed to increase South Africa's military capability. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,150 | PW Botha sought to improve relations with the West – especially the United States – but with mixed results. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,151 | PW Botha argued that the preservation of the apartheid government, though unpopular, was crucial to stemming the tide of African Communism, which had made in-roads into neighbouring Angola and Mozambique after these two former Portuguese colonies obtained independence. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,152 | In 1977, as Minister of Defence, PW Botha began a secret nuclear weapons program, which culminated in the manufacture of six nuclear bombs, destroyed only in the early 1990s. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,153 | PW Botha was responsible for introducing the notorious Koevoet police counter-insurgency unit. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,155 | PW Botha was instrumental in building the SADF's strength, adding momentum to establishing units such as 32 Battalion. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,156 | In 1983, PW Botha proposed a new constitution, which was then put to a vote of the white population. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,157 | PW Botha was elected by an electoral college whose members were elected by the three chambers of the Parliament. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,158 | On 14 September 1984, PW Botha was elected as the first state president under the newly approved constitution. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,159 | PW Botha relaxed the Group Areas Act, which barred non-whites from living in certain areas. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,160 | PW Botha became the first South African government leader to authorise contacts with Nelson Mandela, the imprisoned leader of the African National Congress. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,161 | In 1985, PW Botha delivered the Rubicon speech, a policy address in which he refused to give in to demands by the black population, including the release of Mandela. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,162 | PW Botha is famously quoted during this time as saying, "This uprising will bring out the beast in us". | FactSnippet No. 2,364,163 | On 16 May 1986, PW Botha publicly warned neighbouring states against engaging in "unsolicited interference" in South Africa's affairs. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,164 | PW Botha denied that he had ever considered black South Africans to be in any way inferior to whites, but conceded that "some" whites did hold that view. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,166 | On 18 January 1989, PW Botha suffered a mild stroke which prevented him from attending a meeting with Namibian political leaders on 20 January 1989. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,167 | On 2 February 1989, PW Botha resigned as leader of the National Party, anticipating his nominee – finance minister Barend du Plessis – would succeed him. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,168 | In March 1989, the NP elected De Klerk as state president but PW Botha refused to resign, saying in a television address that the constitution entitled him to remain in office until March 1990 and that he was even considering running for another five-year term. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,169 | However, PW Botha abruptly resigned from the state presidency on 14 August 1989, complaining that he had not been consulted by De Klerk over his scheduled visit to see President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia:. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,170 | PW Botha refused to testify at the new government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, set up to expose apartheid-era crimes and chaired by his cultural and political nemesis, Archbishop Desmond Tutu. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,171 | In June 1999, PW Botha successfully appealed to the High Court against his conviction and sentence. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,172 | PW Botha died of a heart attack at his home in Wilderness on Tuesday 31 October 2006, aged 90. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,173 | PW Botha's death was met with magnanimity by many of his former opponents. | FactSnippet No. 2,364,174 | Former President Nelson Mandela was reported as saying "while to many Mr PW Botha will remain a symbol of apartheid, we remember him for the steps he took to pave the way towards the eventual peacefully negotiated settlement in our country". | FactSnippet No. 2,364,175 |


--- [P. W. Botha Explained] ---
P. W. Botha should not be confused with Pik Botha. | Honorific Prefix: | Staatspresident | | Honorific-Suffix: | DMS | | Order: | 6th | | Office: | State President of South Africa | | Term Start: | 3 September 1984 | | Term End: | 14 August 1989 Acting until 14 September 1984 | | Order2: | 8th | | Office2: | Prime Minister of South Africa | | Term Start2: | 9 October 1978 | | Term End2: | 14 September 1984 | | Predecessor2: | Johannes Vorster | | Successor2: | Himself (as State President) | | Office3: | Minister of Defence | | Term Start3: | 30 March 1966 | | Term End3: | 28 April 1981 | | Predecessor3: | Jacobus Fouché | | Successor3: | Magnus Malan | | Office4: | Minister of Community Development and Coloured Affairs | | Term Start4: | 8 October 1961 | | Term End4: | 30 March 1966 | | Primeminister4: | Hendrik Verwoerd | | Predecessor4: | Office established | | Successor4: | Willem Adriaan Maree | | Office5: | Member of the South African House of Assembly from George | | Term Start5: | 1948 | | Term End5: | 1958 | | Birth Name: | Pieter Willem Botha | | Birth Date: | 1916 1, df=y | | Birth Place: | Paul Roux, Orange Free State, South Africa | | Death Place: | Wilderness, Western Cape, South Africa | | Party: | National Party (1946–1990) | | Spouse: | | | Children: | Rossouw, Pieter Willem, Elanza, Amelia, Rozanne Botha | | Alma Mater: | Grey University College | | Occupation: | Politician | | Signature: | PWBotha signature.png | Pieter Willem Botha, ([1] pronounced as /af/; 12 January 1916 – 31 October 2006) was a South African politician. Nicknamed 'Die Groot Krokodil' (Afrikaans for 'The Big Crocodile') due to his tough political stance,[2] [3] he was the head of government of South Africa from 1978 to 1989, serving as the last prime minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and the first executive state president of South Africa from 1984 to 1989. First elected to Parliament in 1948, Botha, an Afrikaner nationalist, was an opponent of black majority rule and international communism. However, his administration did make concessions towards political reform, whereas internal unrest saw widespread human rights abuses at the hands of his government. Botha resigned as leader of the ruling National Party (NP) in February 1989 after suffering a stroke and six months later was also coerced to leave the presidency. In F. W. de Klerk's 1992 apartheid referendum, Botha campaigned for a No vote and denounced De Klerk's administration as irresponsible for opening the door to black majority rule. In early 1998, when Botha refused to testify at the Mandela government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), he was supported by the Conservative Party, which had earlier contested his rule as the official opposition. For his refusal, he was fined and given a suspended jail sentence, which was overturned on appeal due to a technicality.[4] [5] Pieter Willem Botha was born on a farm in the Paul Roux district of the Orange Free State Province (now Free State Province), the son of Afrikaner parents. His father, Pieter Willem Botha Sr., fought as a commando against the British in the Second Boer War. His mother, Hendrina Christina Botha (née de Wet), was interned in a British concentration camp during the war.[6] Botha initially attended the Paul Roux School and matriculated from Bethlehem Voortrekker High School.[7] In 1934, he entered the Grey University College (now the University of the Free State) in Bloemfontein to study law, but left early at the age of twenty in order to pursue a career in politics.[7] He began working for the National Party as a political organiser in the neighbouring Cape Province. In the run-up to World War II, Botha joined the Ossewabrandwag, an Afrikaner nationalist group which was sympathetic to the German Nazi Party; but months after the German attack on the USSR, Botha condemned the Ossewabrandwag and changed his ideological allegiance to Christian nationalism.[8] [9] In 1943, Botha married Anna Elizabeth Rossouw (Elize).[10] The couple had five children; two sons (Piet and Rossouw) and three daughters (Elsa, Amelia and Rozanne).[11] [12] In the 1980s, Rozanne Botha, emerged as a minor celebrity figure in the country. She released Afrikaans pop songs and appeared on the covers of magazines such as Sarie and Style, where she was dubbed "First Daughter of the Land".[13] In 1998, he married Barbara Robertson, a legal secretary 25 years his junior, following Elize's death the previous year. In 2022, two of his daughters died. Amelia Paschke, died in a car crash driving back from Betty's Bay.[14] In the same year, Rozanne also died, of cancer.[15] At age 30, Botha was elected head of the National Party Youth in 1946, and two years later was elected to the House of Assembly as representative of George in the southern Cape Province in the general election which saw the beginning of the National Party's 46-year tenure in power. His opponent in the 1948 election was JP Marais from the United Party. In 1958 Botha was appointed Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs by Hendrik Verwoerd, and in 1961 was appointed to the new Department of Coloured Affairs and became Minister of Community Development.[16] [17] In 1966, Botha was appointed Minister of Defence by Verwoerd and served under the government of John Vorster, upon Verwoerd's murder later that year. Under his 14 years in charge of the ministry, the South African Defence Force (SADF) reached a zenith, at times consuming 20% of the national budget, compared to 1.3% in 1968, and was involved in the South African Border War.[18] When Vorster resigned following allegations of his involvement in the Muldergate Scandal in 1978, Botha was elected as his successor by the National Party caucus, besting the electorate's favourite, 45-year-old Foreign Minister Pik Botha. In the final internal ballot, he beat Connie Mulder, the scandal's namesake, in a 78–72 vote. Botha was keen to promote constitutional reform, and hoped to implement a form of federal system in South Africa that would allow for greater "self-rule" for black homelands (or Bantustans), while still retaining the supremacy of a white central government, and foremost expand the rights of Coloureds (South Africans of mixed ancestry) and Asians in order to widen support for the government. Upon enacting the reforms, he remarked in the House of Assembly; "We must adapt or die." Upon becoming Prime Minister, Botha retained the defence portfolio until October 1980, when he appointed SADF Chief General Magnus Malan, his successor. From his ascension to the cabinet, Botha pursued an ambitious military policy designed to increase South Africa's military capability. He sought to improve relations with the West – especially the United States – but with mixed results. He argued that the preservation of the apartheid government, though unpopular, was crucial to stemming the tide of African Communism, which had made in-roads into neighbouring Angola and Mozambique after these two former Portuguese colonies obtained independence. As Prime Minister and later State President, Botha's greatest parliamentary opponents were Harry Schwarz and Helen Suzman of the Progressive Federal Party until 1987, when his former cabinet colleague Andries Treurnicht's new Conservative Party became the official opposition on a strictly anti-concessionist agenda. In 1977, as Minister of Defence, Botha began a secret nuclear weapons program, which culminated in the manufacture of six nuclear bombs, destroyed only in the early 1990s.[19] He remained steadfast in South Africa's administration of neighbouring territory South-West Africa, particularly while there was a presence of Cuban troops in Angola to the north. Botha was responsible for introducing the notorious Koevoet police counter-insurgency unit. He was also instrumental in building the SADF's strength, adding momentum to establishing units such as 32 Battalion. South African intervention, with support of the rebel UNITA movement (led by Dr. Jonas Savimbi, a personal friend), in the Angolan Civil War continued until the late 1980s, terminating with the Tripartite Accord. To maintain the nation's military strength, a very strict draft was implemented to enforce compulsory military service for white South African men. In 1983, Botha proposed a new constitution, which was then put to a vote of the white population. Though it did not implement a federal system, it implemented what was ostensibly a power-sharing agreement with Coloureds and Indians. The new constitution created two new houses of parliament alongside the existing, white-only House of Assembly—the House of Representatives for Coloureds and the House of Delegates for Indians. The three chambers of the new Tricameral Parliament had sole jurisdiction over matters relating to their respective communities. Legislation affecting "general affairs," such as foreign policy and race relations, had to pass all three chambers after consideration by joint standing committees. At the time, White South Africans outnumbered Coloureds and Indians together, hence preserving white dominance within the framework of a "power-sharing" system. The plan included no chamber or system of representation for the black majority. Each Black ethno-linguistic group was allocated a 'homeland' which would initially be a semi-autonomous area. However, blacks were legally considered citizens of the Bantustans, not of South Africa, and were expected to exercise their political rights there. Bantustans were expected to gradually move towards a greater state of independence with sovereign nation status being the final goal. During Botha's tenure, Ciskei, Bophutatswana and Venda all achieved nominal sovereignty and nationhood, which were only recognised by each other and by South Africa . These new countries, set up within the borders of South Africa, never gained international recognition, and economically all remained heavily dependent on South Africa. Over half of the Bantustans, most notably KwaZulu led by Mangosuthu Buthelezi, rejected independence due to their leaders' commitment to opposing apartheid from within. The new constitution also changed the executive branch from the parliamentary system that had been in place in one form or another since 1910, to a presidential system. The prime minister's post was abolished, and its functions were merged with those of the state president, which became an executive post with sweeping powers. In a departure from general presidential systems, however, the president was to be elected not by universal suffrage (or white suffrage) but by an electoral college, whose members were elected by the three chambers of the Parliament. The state president and cabinet had sole jurisdiction over "general affairs". Disputes between the three chambers regarding "general affairs" were resolved by the President's Council, composed of members from the three chambers and members directly appointed by the state president. In practice, the composition of the President's Council and the electoral college made it impossible for the Coloured and Indian chambers to outvote the white chamber on any substantive matter, even if they voted as a bloc. Thus, the real power remained in white hands — and in practice, in the hands of Botha's National Party, which commanded a large majority in the white chamber due to the first past the post voting system. Only with the challenge posed by the Conservative Party, which was against the reforms due to the fears of apartheid breaking up, was the Botha's position put in question. Though the new constitution was criticised by the black majority for failing to grant them any formal role in government, many international commentators praised it as a "first step" in what was assumed to be a series of reforms. On 14 September 1984, Botha was elected as the first state president under the newly approved constitution. Implementing the presidential system was seen as a key step in consolidating Botha's personal power. In previous years, he had succeeded in getting a number of strict laws that limited freedom of speech through parliament, and thus suppressed criticism of government decisions. States of emergencies became frequent, including extrajudicial killings either during riots or through special forces, such as the Koevoet. In many western countries, such as the United States, the United Kingdom (where the Anti-Apartheid Movement was based) and the Commonwealth, there was much debate over the imposition of economic sanctions in order to weaken Botha and undermine the white regime. By the late 1980s – as foreign investment in South Africa declined – disinvestment began to have a serious effect on the nation's economy. Botha undertook some changes to apartheid practices, but these were rejected by many as superficial and inadequate. He legalised interracial marriage and miscegenation, both completely banned since the late 1940s. The constitutional prohibition on multiracial political parties was lifted. He also relaxed the Group Areas Act, which barred non-whites from living in certain areas. In 1988, a new law created "Open Group Areas" or racially mixed neighbourhoods but these neighbourhoods had to receive a Government permit, had to have the support of the local whites immediately concerned, and had to be an upper-class neighbourhood in a major city in order to be awarded a permit. In 1983, the aforementioned constitutional reforms granted limited political rights to "Coloureds" and "Indians". Botha also became the first South African government leader to authorise contacts with Nelson Mandela, the imprisoned leader of the African National Congress (ANC). Even these meagre reforms went too far for a group of NP hardliners, led by former Education Minister Andries Treurnicht. In 1982, the group broke away to form the Conservative Party. However, they did not even begin to meet the demands of the opposition. In the face of rising discontent and violence, Botha refused to cede political power to blacks and imposed greater security measures against anti-apartheid activists. Botha also refused to negotiate with the ANC. In 1985, Botha delivered the Rubicon speech, a policy address in which he refused to give in to demands by the black population, including the release of Mandela.[20] Botha's defiance of international opinion further isolated South Africa, leading to economic sanctions and a rapid decline in the value of the rand. The following year, when the United States introduced the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act, Botha declared a nationwide state of emergency. He is famously quoted during this time as saying, "This uprising will bring out the beast in us".[21] As economic and diplomatic actions against South Africa increased, civil unrest spread amongst the black population, supported by the ANC and neighbouring black-majority governments. On 16 May 1986, Botha publicly warned neighbouring states against engaging in "unsolicited interference" in South Africa's affairs.[22] Four days later, Botha ordered air strikes against selected targets in Lusaka, Harare, and Gaborone, including the offices of exiled ANC activists. Botha charged that these raids were just a "first installment" and showed that "South Africa has the capacity and the will to break the [ANC]."[23] In spite of the concessions made by Botha, his rule was still very repressive. Thousands were detained without trial during Botha's tenure, while others were tortured and killed. The TRC found Botha responsible for gross violations of human rights.[24] He was also found to have directly authorised "unlawful activity which included killing."[25] Botha declined to apologise for apartheid. In a 2006 interview to mark his 90th birthday, he suggested that he had no regrets about the way he had run the country.[26] Botha denied that he had ever considered black South Africans to be in any way inferior to whites, but conceded that "some" whites did hold that view. He also claimed that the racial segregation laws of apartheid "started in Lord Milner’s time" and the National Party merely inherited them; however, Botha conceded that the Afrikaner population had been "happy to perpetuate [apartheid]", as many of them "were, and some of them still are... 'racists at heart'".[27] State President Botha's loss of influence can be directly attributed to decisions taken at the Ronald Reagan/Mikhail Gorbachev summit of the leaders of the US and the Soviet Union in Moscow (29 May – 1 June 1988) that paved the way to resolving the problem of Namibia which, according to foreign minister Pik Botha, was destabilising the region and "seriously complicating" the major issue which South Africa itself would shortly have to face.[28] Soviet military aid would cease and Cuban troops be withdrawn from Angola as soon as South Africa complied with UN Security Council Resolution 435 by relinquishing control of Namibia and allowing UN-supervised elections there. The Tripartite Agreement, which gave effect to the Reagan/Gorbachev summit decisions, was signed at UN headquarters in New York on 22 December 1988 by representatives of Angola, Cuba and South Africa.[29] On 18 January 1989, Botha (then aged 73) suffered a mild stroke which prevented him from attending a meeting with Namibian political leaders on 20 January 1989. Botha's place was taken by acting president J. Christiaan Heunis.[30] On 2 February 1989, Botha resigned as leader of the National Party (NP), anticipating his nominee – finance minister Barend du Plessis – would succeed him. Instead, the NP's parliamentary caucus selected as leader education minister F. W. de Klerk, who moved quickly to consolidate his position within the party as a reformist, while hardliners supported Botha. In March 1989, the NP elected De Klerk as state president but Botha refused to resign, saying in a television address that the constitution entitled him to remain in office until March 1990 and that he was even considering running for another five-year term. Following a series of acrimonious meetings in Cape Town, and five days after UNSCR 435 was implemented in Namibia on 1 April 1989, Botha and De Klerk reached a compromise: Botha would retire after the parliamentary elections in September, allowing de Klerk to take over as state president. However, Botha abruptly resigned from the state presidency on 14 August 1989, complaining that he had not been consulted by De Klerk over his scheduled visit to see President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia: "The ANC is enjoying the protection of president Kaunda and is planning insurgency activities against South Africa from Lusaka", Botha declared on nationwide television. He said he had asked the cabinet what reason he should give the public for abruptly leaving office. "They replied I could use my health as an excuse. To this, I replied that I am not prepared to leave on a lie. It is evident to me that after all these years of my best efforts for the National Party and for the government of this country, as well as the security of our country, I am being ignored by ministers serving in my cabinet."[31] De Klerk was sworn in as acting state president on 14 August 1989 and the following month was nominated by the electoral college to succeed Botha in a five-year term as state president.[32] De Klerk soon announced the removal of legislation against anti-apartheid groups – including the African National Congress – and the release of Nelson Mandela. De Klerk's term saw the dismantling of the apartheid system and negotiations that eventually led to South Africa's first racially inclusive democratic elections on 27 April 1994. In a statement on the death of Botha in 2006, De Klerk said: "Personally, my relationship with P. W. Botha was often strained. I did not like his overbearing leadership style and was opposed to the intrusion of the State Security Council system into virtually every facet of government. After I became leader of the National Party in February 1989, I did my best to ensure that P. W. Botha would be able to end his term as president with full dignity and decorum. Unfortunately, this was not to be."[33] Botha and his wife Elize retired to their home, Die Anker, in the town of Wilderness, from the city of George and located on the Indian Ocean coast of the Western Cape.[34] [35] Elize died in 1997 after a heart attack.[36] He was briefly engaged to Reinette Water Naude, an independently wealthy woman 31 years his junior.[37] However, on 22 June 1998, he married Barbara Robertson, a legal secretary 25 years his junior.[38] Botha remained largely out of sight of the media and it was widely believed that he remained opposed to many of F. W. de Klerk's reforms. He resigned from the Afrikaner Broederbond. Then-president Nelson Mandela arranged a dinner with Botha's daughters, Rozanne and Elsa, and their husbands. Mandela had hoped to lobby the family so that they would persuade Botha to testify at the new government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), set up to expose apartheid-era crimes and chaired by his cultural and political nemesis, Archbishop Desmond Tutu. There was no unanimous agreement between the family, with Rozanne vocally opposed, believing that her father could face prosecution and/or humiliation in the court.[39] The TRC found that he had ordered the 1988 bombing of the South African Council of Churches headquarters in Johannesburg. In August 1998, he was fined and given a suspended jail sentence for his refusal to testify on human rights violations and violence sanctioned by the State Security Council (SSC) which he, as president until 1989, had directed.[40] In June 1999, Botha successfully appealed to the High Court against his conviction and sentence. The Court's ruling by Judge Selikowitz (with Judge Foxcroft concurring) found that the notice served on Botha to appear before the TRC was technically invalid.[41] Botha died of a heart attack at his home in Wilderness on Tuesday 31 October 2006, aged 90.[42] His death was met with magnanimity by many of his former opponents. Former President Nelson Mandela was reported as saying "while to many Mr. Botha will remain a symbol of apartheid, we also remember him for the steps he took to pave the way towards the eventual peacefully negotiated settlement in our country".[43] President Thabo Mbeki announced that flags would be flown at half mast to mark the death of a former head of state. The offer of a state funeral was declined by Botha's family, and a private funeral was held on 8 November in the town of George, where Botha's body was buried. Mbeki attended the funeral.[44]


--- [P. W. Botha - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- P. W. Botha - Pieter Willem Botha 6th State President of South Africa In office 3 September 1984 – 15 August 1989Preceded by Marais Viljoen Non-ExecutiveSucceeded by Frederik Willem de Klerk 9th Prime Minister of South Africa In office 9 October 1978 – 3 September 1984President Marais Viljoen Balthazar Johannes Vorster Marais ViljoenPreceded by Balthazar Johannes Vorster Succeeded by Position Abolished Personal details Born Pieter Willem Botha 12 January 1916 Paul Roux, Orange Free State, Union of South AfricaDied 31 October 2006 (aged 90) Wilderness, Western Cape, South AfricaNationality South African Political party National Party Spouse(s) Elize Botha Barbara Robertson (1998–2006)Children 5 Profession Politician Religion Dutch Reformed Church Apartheid in South Africa Events and projects Sharpeville massacre Soweto uprising Treason Trial · Rivonia Trial Church Street bombing · CODESA St James Church massacre Cape Town peace marchOrganisations ANC · IFP · AWB · Black Sash CCB · Conservative Party · ECC · PP RP · PFP · HNP · MK · PAC · UDF · Broederbond · National Party COSATU · SADF · SAP · SACPPeople P. W. Botha · D. F. Malan Desmond Tutu · F. W. de Klerk Walter Sisulu · Helen Suzman Harry Schwarz · Andries Treurnicht H. F. Verwoerd · Sheena Duncan Nelson Mandela · Oliver Tambo B. J. Vorster · Kaiser Matanzima Mangosuthu Buthelezi · Steve Biko Winnie Madikizela-Mandela · Joe Slovo Trevor Huddleston · Hector Pieterson Hastings Ndlovu · Jimmy KrugerPlaces Bantustan · District Six Robben Island · Sophiatown South-West Africa · Soweto Sun City · VlakplaasRelated topics Afrikaner nationalism Apartheid laws · Freedom Charter Sullivan Principles · Kairos Document Disinvestment campaign South African Police Apartheid in popular culturePieter Willem Botha (12 January 1916 – 31 October 2006), commonly known as "P. W." and Die Groot Krokodil (Afrikaans for "The Big Crocodile"), was the prime minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984 and the first executive state president from 1984 to 1989. First elected to Parliament in 1948, Botha was for eleven years head of the Afrikaner National Party and the South African government. Although a fierce opponent of black majority rule and Communism, his government did make concessions towards political reform, whereas internal unrest saw widespread human rights abuses on the hands of the government as well as the militant opposition. Botha resigned the party leadership in February 1989 after suffering a stroke and six months later was coerced to leave the presidency as well. In F W de Klerk's 1992 referendum Botha campaigned for a No vote and denounced de Klerk's administration as irresponsible. In early in 1998, when Botha refused to testify at the Mandela government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, he was supported by the right-wing Conservative Party, which had earlier contested his rule, in his refusal and was fined and given a suspended jail sentence later that year.[1] Shortly before his death in late 2006, he renewed his opposition towards egalitarian democracy in favour of a confederate system based upon the principles of separate development.[2] Botha was not related to contemporary National Party politician Roelof Frederik "Pik" Botha, his Minister of Foreign Affairs. Contents Early life Botha was born on the farm Telegraaf in the Paul Roux district of the Orange Free State, the son of Afrikaner parents. His father, also named Pieter, fought in a commando against the British in the Second Boer War (1899–1902). During the war his mother was interned in a British concentration camp. He initially attended the Paul Roux School and matriculated from Voortrekker Secondary School Bethlehem, South Africa. In 1934, P.W. Botha entered the Grey University College (now the University of the Free State) in Bloemfontein to study law, but left early at the age of 20 in order to pursue a career in politics. He began working for the National Party as a political organiser in the neighbouring Cape Province. In the years leading to World War II, Botha joined the Ossewabrandwag, or Oxwagon Sentinel (OB), a right-wing Afrikaner nationalist group which was sympathetic to the German Nazi Party. However in later years, with Allied victory looming in Europe, Botha was critical of this national socialist movement, favouring Christian nationalism instead, and condemned the Ossewabrandwag, charging it with "interference" in national politics.[3] In 1943, Botha married Anna Elizabeth Rossouw (Elize), and the couple had two sons and three daughters. Had an affair with his wife's sister, which caused a controversial story. Parliamentary career Age 30, Botha was elected head of the National Party Youth in 1946, and two years later won a race for the House of Assembly as representative of George in the southern Cape Province in the general election which saw the beginning of the National Party's 46-year tenure in power. In 1958 Botha was appointed Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs by Hendrik Verwoerd, and in 1961 advanced to Minister of Coloured Affairs.[4] He was appointed Minister for Defense upon Verwoerd's murder by his successor B.J. Vorster in 1966. Under his 14 years as its leader, the South African Defense Force reached a zenith, at times consuming 20 % of the national budget, compared to 1,3 % in 2009, and was involved in the South African Border War.[5] When Vorster resigned following allegations of his involvement in the Muldergate Scandal in 1978, Botha was elected as his successor by the National Party caucus, besting the electorate's favourite, 45-year old Foreign Minister Pik Botha. In the final internal ballot, he beat Connie Mulder, the scandal's namesake, in a 78–72 vote. Though generally considered[by whom?] a conservative, Botha was also seen[by whom?] as far more pragmatic than his predecessor. He was keen to promote constitutional reform, and hoped to implement a form of federal system in South Africa that would allow for greater "self-rule" for black homelands (or Bantustans), while still retaining the supremacy of a white central government, and foremost expand the rights of Coloureds (South Africans of mixed ancestry) and Asians in order to widen support for the government. Upon enacting the reforms, he remarked in the House of Assembly; "We must adapt or die." On becoming head of the government, Botha retained the defence portfolio until October 1980, when he appointed chief of the South African Defence Force, General Magnus Malan, his successor. From his ascension to the cabinet, Botha pursued an ambitious military policy designed to increase South Africa's military capability. He sought to improve relations with the West – especially the United States – but with mixed results. He argued that the preservation of the apartheid government, though unpopular, was crucial to stemming the tide of African Communism, which had made in-roads into neighbouring Angola and Mozambique after these two former Portuguese colonies obtained independence. As Prime Minister and later State President, his greatest parliamentary opponents were Harry Schwarz and Helen Suzman of the Progressive Federal Party until 1987, when his former cabinet colleague Andries Treurnicht's new Conservative Party became the official opposition on a strictly anti-concessionist agenda. In 1977, as Minister of Defence he began a secret nuclear weapons program in collaboration with Israel, which culminated in the production of six nuclear bombs destroyed only in the early 1990s.[6] He remained steadfast in South Africa's administration of the neighbouring territory South-West Africa, particularly while there was a presence of Cuban troops in Angola to the north. Botha was responsible for introducing the notorious police counter-insurgency unit, Koevoet. He was also instrumental in building the South African Defence Force's strength. Adding momentum to establishing units such as 32 Battalion. South African intervention in support of the rebel UNITA (Dr. Jonas Savimbi, a personal friend) movement in the Angolan Civil War continued until the late 1980s, terminating with the Tripartite Accord. To maintain the nation's military strength, a very strict draft was implemented to enforce compulsory military service for white South African men. State President In 1983 Botha proposed a new constitution, which was then put to a vote of the white population. Though it did not implement a federal system, it created two new houses of parliament, one for Coloureds (House of Representatives) and one for Indians (House of Delegates), along with that for whites-only (House of Assembly). The new Tricameral Parliament theoretically had equal legislative powers but the laws each new house passed were effective solely in its own community. Control of the country was maintained by the white house. The plan included no chamber or system of representation for the black majority. Black South Africans were expected to exercise their political rights within the context of the Bantustans. Each Black ethno-linguistic group was allocated a 'homeland' which would initially be a semi-autonomous area. Bantustans were expected to gradually move towards a greater state of independence with sovereign nation status being the final goal. During Botha's tenure Ciskei, Bophutatswana and Venda all achieved nominal nationhood. These new countries set up within the borders of South Africa never gained international recognition. The new constitution also changed the executive branch, abolishing the post of prime minister. Instead, the role of head of government would be combined with that of head of state to create a strong, executive presidency with expanded powers. The presidency and cabinet had sole jurisdiction over areas deemed to be of "national" responsibility, such as foreign policy and race relations. Though the new constitution was criticised by the black majority for failing to grant them any formal role in government, many international commentators praised it as a "first step" in what was assumed to be a series of reforms. On 14 September 1984, Botha was elected as the first state president of South Africa under the newly approved constitution. Implementing the presidential system was seen as a key step in consolidating Botha's personal power. In previous years he had succeeded in getting a number of strict laws that limited freedom of speech through parliament, and thus suppressed criticism of government decisions. In many western countries, such as the United States, the United Kingdom (where the Anti-Apartheid Movement was based) and the Commonwealth there was much debate over the imposition of economic sanctions in order to weaken Botha and undermine the white regime. By the late 1980s – as foreign investment in South Africa declined – disinvestment began to have a serious effect on the nation's economy. Apartheid government In some ways, Botha's application of the apartheid system was less repressive than that of his predecessors: interracial marriage and miscegenation – both completely banned since the late 1940s – was legalised, and the constitutional prohibition on multiracial political parties was lifted. He also relaxed the Group Areas Act, which barred non-whites from living in certain areas. In 1983, the above constitutional reforms granted limited political rights to Coloureds (South Africans of mixed white and non-white ancestry) and Indians. Late in his term, he became the first South African government leader to authorise contacts with imprisoned ANC leader Nelson Mandela. However, on the central issue of ceding power to blacks, he would not budge. In the face of rising discontent and violence, he imposed greater security measures such as states of emergency and state-sponsored covert action against anti-apartheid activists. He also steadfastly refused to negotiate with the African National Congress. Typical of his rule was his 1985 "Crossing the Rubicon" speech, a policy address in which Botha was widely expected to announce new reforms. Instead, he refused to give in to pressure for concessions to the black population including the release of Nelson Mandela. His defiance of international opinion in this speech led to further isolation of the country, calls for economic sanctions, and a rapid decline in the value of the rand. The following year, when the United States introduced the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act, Botha declared a nation-wide state of emergency. He is famously quoted during this time as saying "This uprising will bring out the beast in us". On 19 May 1986, frustrated by increasing ANC-backed agitation which was fuelling many elements of the disorder, the president called for air strikes against selected targets in Lusaka, Harare, and Gaberone. These included the offices of known ANC activists who had been living in Zambia, Zimbabwe, and Botswana. Botha charged that these raids were just a "first instalment" and showed that "South Africa has the capacity and the will to break the [African National Congress]." Four days earlier, he had publicly warned neighbouring states known as open supporters of the organisation away from "unsolicited interference" in his nation's affairs. Thousands were detained without trial during his presidency, while others were tortured and killed. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission found him responsible for gross violations of human rights.[7] It also found that he had directly authorised 'unlawful activity which included killing.'[8] However, he refused to apologise for apartheid. In a 2006 interview to mark his 90th birthday he suggested that he had no regrets about the way he had run the country.[9] He denied, however, that he had ever considered Black South Africans to be in any way inferior to whites, but conceded that "some" whites did hold that view. He also claimed that the apartheid policies were inherited from the British colonial administration in the Eastern Cape and Natal Province, implying that he considered them something he and his government had followed by default. Botha's downfall President Botha's downfall can be directly attributed to decisions taken at the Ronald Reagan/Mikhail Gorbachev summit of the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union in Moscow (29 May – 1 June 1988) that paved the way to resolving the problem of Namibia which, according to foreign minister Pik Botha, was destabilising the region and "seriously complicating" the major issue which South Africa itself would shortly have to face.[10] Soviet military aid would cease and Cuban troops be withdrawn from Angola as soon as South Africa complied with UN Security Council Resolution 435 by relinquishing control of Namibia and allowing UN-supervised elections there. The Tripartite Agreement, which gave effect to the Reagan/Gorbachev summit decisions, was signed at UN headquarters in New York on 22 December 1988 by representatives of Angola, Cuba and South Africa.[11] On 18 January 1989, Botha (then aged 73) suffered a mild stroke which prevented him from attending a meeting with Namibian political leaders on 20 January 1989. Botha's place was taken by acting president, J. Christiaan Heunis.[12] On 2 February 1989, Botha resigned as leader of the National Party (NP) anticipating his nominee – finance minister Barend du Plessis – would succeed him. Instead, the NP's parliamentary caucus selected as leader education minister F W de Klerk, who moved quickly to consolidate his position within the party. In March 1989, the NP elected de Klerk as state president but Botha refused to resign, saying in a television address that the constitution entitled him to remain in office until March 1990 and that he was even considering running for another five-year term. Following a series of acrimonious meetings in Cape Town, and five days after UNSCR 435 was implemented in Namibia on 1 April 1989, Botha and de Klerk reached a compromise: Botha would retire after the parliamentary elections in September, allowing de Klerk to take over as president. However, Botha resigned from the presidency abruptly on 14 August 1989 complaining that he had not been consulted by de Klerk over his scheduled visit to see president Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia: - "The ANC is enjoying the protection of president Kaunda and is planning insurgency activities against South Africa from Lusaka," Botha declared on nationwide television. He said he had asked the cabinet what reason he should give the public for abruptly leaving office. "They replied I could use my health as an excuse. To this, I replied that I am not prepared to leave on a lie. It is evident to me that after all these years of my best efforts for the National Party and for the government of this country, as well as the security of our country, I am being ignored by ministers serving in my cabinet."[13] De Klerk was sworn in as acting president on 15 August 1989 and the following month was nominated by the electoral college to succeed Botha in a five-year term as state president.[14] Within months of the collapse of the Berlin Wall, de Klerk had announced the legalisation of anti-apartheid groups – including the African National Congress – and the release of Nelson Mandela. De Klerk's rule saw the dismantling of the apartheid system and negotiations that eventually led to South Africa's first racially inclusive democratic elections on 27 April 1994. In a statement on the death of former president P W Botha in 2006, de Klerk said: - "Personally, my relationship with P W Botha was often strained. I did not like his overbearing leadership style and was opposed to the intrusion of the State Security Council system into virtually every facet of government. After I became leader of the National Party in February 1989 I did my best to ensure that P W Botha would be able to end his term as president with full dignity and decorum. Unfortunately, this was not to be."[15] Retirement Botha and his wife Elize retired to their home, Die Anker, in the town of Wilderness, close to the city of George and located on the Indian Ocean coast of the Western Cape. His wife Elize died in 1997, and he later married Barbara Robertson, a legal secretary 25 years his junior, on 22 June 1998. Botha remained largely out of sight of the media and it was widely believed that he remained opposed to many of F W de Klerk's reforms. Botha refused to testify at the new government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission for exposing apartheid-era crimes, which was chaired by his cultural and political nemesis, Archbishop Desmond Tutu. The TRC found that he had ordered the bombing of the South African Council of Churches headquarters in Johannesburg. In August 1998 he was fined and given a suspended jail sentence for his refusal to testify in relation to human rights violations and the violence sanctioned by the State Security Council (SSC) which he, as president until 1989, had directed.[16] In June 1999 Botha successfully appealed to the High Court against his conviction and sentence. The Court found that the notice served on Botha to appear before the Commission was technically invalid.[17] Death Botha died of a heart attack at his home in Wilderness on 31 October 2006, aged 90.[18] His death was met with magnanimity by many of his former opponents. Former President Nelson Mandela was reported as saying "while to many Mr Botha will remain a symbol of apartheid, we also remember him for the steps he took to pave the way towards the eventual peacefully negotiated settlement in our country."[19] President Thabo Mbeki announced that flags would be flown at half staff, to mark the death of a former head of state. The offer of a state funeral was declined by Botha's family, and a private funeral was held on 8 November in the town of George where Botha was buried. Mbeki, who had lost a brother, a son and a cousin during apartheid, attended the funeral[20][21] and was even seen to shed a tear or two. The following day, pictures of this were printed on the front pages of most of the regional newspapers.[citation needed] References - ^ Mary Braid (8 January 1998). "Afrikaners champion Botha's cause of silence". The Independent (UK). http://www.independent.co.uk/news/afrikaners-champion-bothas-cause-of-silence-1137403.html. Retrieved 15 May 2009. - ^ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2Car5GzJEI&feature=related - ^ P. W. Botha, Defender of Apartheid, Is Dead at 90, New York Times, 1 November 2006 - ^ The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/01/world/africa/01botha.html. - ^ Gregory, Joseph R. (1 November 2006). "P. W. Botha, Defender of Apartheid, Is Dead at 90". The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/01/world/africa/01botha.html?pagewanted=all. - ^ http://nuclearweaponarchive.org/Safrica/SABuildingBombs.html - ^ [1] Dan van der Vat. Guardian Obituary. 2 November 2006. - ^ [2] Truth and Reconciliation Commission of South Africa. (2003) Truth and Reconciliation Commission of South Africa Report, Vol. 6, Section 3, pp. 252–3, para. 326 (e), 327, and 328. - ^ The Groot Krokodil speaks, MWeb, 2 November 2006 - ^ Chronology of Namibian independence - ^ New York Accords signed by Angola, Cuba and South Africa - ^ The New York Times 22 January 1989 "Botha suffers mild stroke" - ^ Botha Quits, Criticizes Successor - ^ South Africa Limited Reforms - ^ Statement by F W de Klerk on the death of former president P W Botha (Issued by the F W de Klerk Foundation, Cape Town, 1 November 2006) - ^ TRC findings: P W Botha, BBC News, 29 October 1998 - ^ "The Citizen", 2 June 1999 - ^ Former South Africa leader dies, BBC News, 1 November 2006 - ^ PW Botha: Reaction in quotes, BBC News, 1 November 2006 - ^ Flags fly half-mast for PW, News24, 2 November 2006 - ^ PW laid to rest, Independent Online (IOL), 8 November 2006 Further reading - Botha's last interview before he died - The Mandela Document, dated prior to Mandela's release - "Fighter and Reformer: Extracts from the Speeches of P. W. Botha", Compiled by J.J.J. Scholtz, Published: Bureau for Information, Pretoria, 1989 - The life and times of PW Botha – IOL - PW, Tambo 'partners in peace' – News24 - 'He was my bread and botha' (By artists) – Mail&Guardian - Zuma on PW: 'He saw the need for change' – Mail&Guardian - Thabo Mbeki on PW – Moneyweb Political offices Preceded by Jacobus Johannes FouchéMinister of Defence (South Africa) 1966–1980Succeeded by Magnus MalanPreceded by Balthazar Johannes VorsterPrime Minister of South Africa 1978–1984Position abolished Preceded by Marais ViljoenState President of South Africa 1984–1989Succeeded by Frederik Willem de KlerkLouis Botha · Jan Christiaan Smuts · James Barry Munnik Hertzog · Jan Christiaan Smuts · Daniel François Malan · Johannes Gerhardus Strijdom · Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd · Balthazar Johannes Vorster · Pieter Willem BothaPre-Apartheid (1910-1948) Apartheid-era (1948-1994) Post-Apartheid (1994-present) Presidents of South Africa 1961 Constitution (ceremonial)Charles Robberts Swart · Theophilus Ebenhaezer Dönges · Jozua François Naudé * · Jacobus Johannes Fouché · Johannes de Klerk * · Nicolaas Johannes Diederichs · Marais Viljoen * · B. J. Vorster · Marais Viljoen1983 Constitution (executive)1996 Constitution (executive)- = acting Categories:- People from the Free State (South African province) - Prime Ministers of South Africa - State Presidents of South Africa - Apartheid government - Cold War leaders - South African anti-communists - Calvinist politicians - Afrikaner people - Deaths from myocardial infarction - Dutch Reformed Christians from South Africa - Defence ministers of South Africa - White South African people - University of the Free State alumni - National Party (South Africa) politicians - 1916 births - 2006 deaths - Members of the House of Assembly of South Africa Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [P. W. Botha Facts for Kids] ---
P. W. Botha facts for kids Quick facts for kids P. W. Botha DMS | | |---|---| | Botha in 1962 | | | 6th State President of South Africa | | | In office 3 September 1984 – 14 August 1989 Acting until 14 September 1984 | | | Preceded by | Marais Viljoen as ceremonial State President Himself as Prime Minister | | Succeeded by | Chris Heunis (acting) F. W. de Klerk | | 8th Prime Minister of South Africa | | | In office 9 October 1978 – 14 September 1984 | | | President | John Vorster Marais Viljoen | | Preceded by | John Vorster | | Succeeded by | Office abolished | | Minister of Defence | | | In office 30 March 1966 – 28 April 1981 | | | Prime Minister | Hendrik Verwoerd John Vorster Himself | | Preceded by | J. J. Fouché | | Succeeded by | Magnus Malan | | Minister of Community Development and Coloured Affairs | | | In office 8 October 1961 – 30 March 1966 | | | Prime Minister | Hendrik Verwoerd | | Preceded by | Office established | | Succeeded by | Willem Adriaan Maree | | Member of the South African House of Assembly from George | | | In office 1948 –1958 | | | Personal details | | | Born | Pieter Willem Botha 12 January 1916 Paul Roux, Orange Free State, Union of South Africa | | Died | 31 October 2006 Wilderness, Western Cape, Republic of South Africa | (aged 90) | Political party | National (1946–1990) | | Spouses | Anna Elizabeth Rossouw (m. 1943; died 1997)Barbara Robertson (m. 1998) | | Children | Rossouw, Pieter Willem, Elanza, Amelia, Rozanne | | Alma mater | Grey University College | | Profession | Politician | | Signature | | Pieter Willem Botha (born January 12, 1916 – died October 31, 2006) was a South African politician. People often called him P. W. or The Big Crocodile. He was the last Prime Minister of South Africa from 1978 to 1984. After that, he became the first State President of South Africa from 1984 to 1989. Botha was first elected to Parliament in 1948. He was strongly against black people having majority rule. However, his government did try to make some changes. During his time, there was a lot of unrest and unfair treatment of people by the government. Botha stepped down as leader of the National Party in 1989 after he had a stroke. He was later asked to leave the presidency too. In 1992, when F. W. de Klerk held a vote about ending apartheid, Botha told people to vote "No." He said De Klerk's government was being careless by allowing black majority rule. Later, in 1998, Botha refused to speak to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC). This commission was set up by Nelson Mandela's government to look into past wrongs. Botha was fined and given a suspended jail sentence for this, but the punishment was later removed after he appealed. Contents Early Life and Education Pieter Willem Botha was born on a farm in the Paul Roux area of the Orange Free State Province. His parents were Afrikaner. His father fought against the British in the Second Boer War. His mother was held in a British camp during the war. Botha went to school in Paul Roux and then Bethlehem. In 1934, he started studying law at Grey University College. But he left at age 20 to start a career in politics. He began working for the National Party in the Cape Province. Before World War II, Botha joined a group called the Ossewabrandwag. This group was sympathetic to Germany's Nazi Party. However, Botha later changed his views and spoke out against the Ossewabrandwag. In 1943, Botha married Anna Elizabeth Rossouw, known as Elize. They had five children together. His Time in Parliament At 30, Botha became the head of the National Party Youth in 1946. Two years later, he was elected to the House of Assembly for the George area. This was the election where the National Party began its 46 years in power. In 1958, Botha became Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. In 1961, he became Minister of Community Development. In 1966, he was made Minister of Defence. He held this job for 14 years. During this time, the South African Defence Force (SADF) grew very strong. It was involved in the South African Border War. In 1978, John Vorster resigned as Prime Minister. Botha was then chosen by his party to be the new Prime Minister. He wanted to make changes to the country's laws. He hoped to create a system where black "homelands" could have more "self-rule." He also wanted to give more rights to Coloured and Indian people. He famously said, "We must adapt or die." As Prime Minister, Botha also led the defence department until 1980. He worked to make South Africa's military stronger. He tried to improve relations with countries like the United States. He argued that keeping the apartheid government was important to stop the spread of communism in Africa. Botha's main opponents in parliament were from the Progressive Federal Party. Later, the Conservative Party, led by Andries Treurnicht, became the main opposition. In 1977, as Minister of Defence, Botha started a secret program to build nuclear bombs. South Africa built six bombs, which were later destroyed in the 1990s. Botha also kept South Africa in control of South-West Africa (now Namibia). He also helped build up military units like 32 Battalion. South Africa was involved in the Angolan Civil War until the late 1980s. To keep the military strong, all white South African men had to serve in the army. Becoming State President In 1983, Botha suggested a new constitution. White people voted on this new plan. It created two new parts of parliament: one for Coloured people and one for Indians. These three parts of parliament would handle issues for their own communities. But important issues like foreign policy had to be approved by all three. The plan did not include any way for the black majority to be part of the government. Black people were considered citizens of their 'homelands' (called Bantustans), not South Africa. These homelands were supposed to become independent countries. During Botha's time, some homelands like Ciskei became "independent." But no other country in the world recognized them, and they still relied on South Africa. Many black leaders, like Mangosuthu Buthelezi, refused independence for their homelands. The new constitution also changed the government system. The Prime Minister's job was removed, and its duties were combined with the state president. This made the president a very powerful leader. Botha was elected as the first state president under this new constitution on September 14, 1984. Many people criticized the new constitution because it did not give black people a role in government. But some international observers thought it was a first step towards reform. Botha also passed strict laws that limited freedom of speech. This helped him control criticism of his government. Many Western countries, like the United States and the United Kingdom, debated putting economic sanctions on South Africa. By the late 1980s, foreign investment in South Africa dropped. This started to hurt the country's economy. Apartheid Government Under Botha Botha made some small changes to apartheid rules. He made interracial marriage legal again, which had been banned. He also made it easier for non-white people to live in certain areas. In 1988, a new law allowed "Open Group Areas" where different races could live together. But these areas needed government permission and support from local white residents. Botha also became the first South African leader to talk with Nelson Mandela, who was in prison. However, even these small changes were too much for some hardliners in Botha's party. They left to form the Conservative Party. But the changes were not enough for the opposition. As unrest and violence grew, Botha refused to give political power to black people. He also increased security measures against anti-apartheid activists. He refused to negotiate with the African National Congress (ANC). In 1985, Botha gave a famous speech called the Rubicon speech. In it, he refused to give in to demands from the black population, including freeing Mandela. Botha's defiance made South Africa even more isolated. This led to more economic sanctions and a drop in the value of the South African currency. The next year, he declared a nationwide state of emergency. He famously said, "This uprising will bring out the beast in us." As other countries took action against South Africa, unrest grew among the black population. The ANC and neighboring black-majority governments supported this. In May 1986, Botha warned neighboring countries not to interfere in South Africa's affairs. Four days later, he ordered air strikes on targets in Lusaka, Harare, and Gaborone. These targets included offices of exiled ANC activists. Botha said these raids were just a "first installment." Even with the small changes Botha made, the apartheid years under his leadership were very harsh. Many people were held without trial, and some were tortured or killed. The TRC later found Botha responsible for serious human rights violations. They also found he had approved "unlawful activity." Botha never apologized for apartheid. In a 2006 interview, he said he had no regrets about how he ran the country. He denied thinking black South Africans were inferior. But he admitted that some white people were "racists at heart." End of His Time in Power Botha's power began to fade after a meeting between Ronald Reagan (US) and Mikhail Gorbachev (Soviet Union) in 1988. This meeting helped solve the problem of Namibia. A peace agreement was signed in New York in December 1988. It said that Soviet military aid would stop and Cuban troops would leave Angola. In return, South Africa would give up control of Namibia and allow elections there. On January 18, 1989, Botha, then 73, had a mild stroke. This stopped him from attending a meeting. On February 2, 1989, Botha resigned as leader of the National Party. He expected his chosen successor, Barend du Plessis, to take over. But the party chose F. W. de Klerk instead. De Klerk quickly showed he wanted reforms. In March 1989, the National Party elected De Klerk as state president. But Botha refused to resign from the presidency. He said he could stay until March 1990 and was even thinking of running again. After some difficult meetings, Botha and De Klerk agreed: Botha would retire after the September elections. This would allow De Klerk to become state president. However, Botha suddenly resigned from the presidency on August 14, 1989. He complained that De Klerk had not asked him about a planned visit to Kenneth Kaunda, the President of Zambia. Botha said, "The ANC is enjoying the protection of president Kaunda and is planning insurgency activities against South Africa from Lusaka." He felt ignored by his own ministers. De Klerk became acting state president that day. The next month, he was chosen to be the new state president. De Klerk soon announced that laws against anti-apartheid groups, including the African National Congress, would be removed. He also announced the release of Nelson Mandela. De Klerk's time as president led to the end of apartheid. It also led to South Africa's first democratic elections in 1994, where people of all races could vote. After Botha's death in 2006, De Klerk said their relationship was often difficult. He did not like Botha's strong leadership style. Retirement Botha and his wife Elize retired to their home in Wilderness, a town on the Indian Ocean coast. Elize died in 1997. Botha later married Barbara Robertson in 1998. Botha mostly stayed out of the public eye. Many believed he still disagreed with De Klerk's reforms. He also left the Afrikaner Broederbond, a secret organization. Botha refused to speak to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC). This commission was set up to investigate crimes from the apartheid era. The TRC found that Botha had ordered the bombing of the South African Council of Churches headquarters in 1988. In August 1998, he was fined and given a suspended jail sentence for not testifying about human rights violations. These violations were approved by the State Security Council, which he led as president. In June 1999, Botha successfully appealed his conviction. The court found that the notice asking him to appear before the TRC was not legally correct. Death Botha died from a heart attack at his home in Wilderness on October 31, 2006. He was 90 years old. Many of his former opponents reacted kindly to his death. Former President Nelson Mandela said that while Botha was a symbol of apartheid to many, he also helped pave the way for a peaceful agreement in South Africa. President Thabo Mbeki announced that flags would be flown at half-mast for the former head of state. Botha's family declined an offer of a state funeral. A private funeral was held on November 8 in George, where Botha was buried. Mbeki attended the funeral. Awards - Taiwan: Order of Propitious Clouds with Special Grand Cordon (1980) Images for kids See also In Spanish: Pieter Willem Botha para niños
