=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Largest human DNA helix - Guinness World Records]
The largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016. The record breaking human DNA helix was formed on South Beach in Varna, Bulgaria, on the coast of the Black Sea.
URL: https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/largest-human-dna-helix

[Largest Human DNA Helix: Bulgaria breaks Guinness World Records record ...]
May 5, 2016 · The event was organised by Varna's Medical University. (enlarge photo) The Guinness World Records world record for the largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016.
URL: https://worldrecordacademy.com/medical/largest_human_DNA_helix_Bulgaria_breaks_Guinness_World_Records_record_216215.html

[Medical University Varna - Study medicine in Bulgaria MU-Varna Set a ...]
Today, 23rd April, at the South Beach in Varna, 4000 people managed to break the Guinness World Record for the Largest Human DNA Helix. Organizer of the spectacular event is Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov "- Varna. The event was carried out under the motto "Be a Part of the Future", through which the organizers united people of all ages.
URL: https://www.mu-varna.bg/EN/Pages/rekord-mu-varna.aspx

[Largest human DNA helix | غينيس للأرقام القياسية]
The largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016. The record breaking human DNA helix was formed on South Beach in Varna, Bulgaria, on the coast of the Black Sea.
URL: https://www.guinnessworldrecords.ae/world-records/largest-human-dna-helix

[Bulgaria's Varna Sets Guinness World Record for Largest Human DNA Helix ...]
Apr 24, 2016 · A total of 4000 people gathered on the southern beach in the Bulgarian city of Varna on Saturday, setting a Guinness World Record for the largest human DNA helix. The participants, who were ...
URL: https://www.novinite.com/articles/174184/Bulgaria%27s+Varna+Sets+Guinness+World+Record+for+Largest+Human+DNA+Helix


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Largest human DNA helix - Guinness World Records] ---
Largest human DNA helix - Who - Medical University of Varna - What - 4000 people - Where - Bulgaria (Varna) - When - 23 April 2016 The largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016. The record breaking human DNA helix was formed on South Beach in Varna, Bulgaria, on the coast of the Black Sea.


--- [Largest Human DNA Helix: Bulgaria breaks Guinness World Records record ...] ---
Largest Human DNA Helix: Bulgaria breaks Guinness World Records record (VIDEO) VARNA, Bulgaria -- A total of 4000 people gathered on the southern beach in the Bulgarian city of Varna on Saturday, setting a World Record for the largest human DNA helix, according to the World Record Academy. Photo: A total of 4000 people gathered on the southern beach in the Bulgarian city of Varna on Saturday, setting a World Record for the largest human DNA helix. The event was organised by Varna's Medical University. (enlarge photo) The Guinness World Records world record for the largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016. Guinness World Records also recognized the world record for the largest human image of a fingerprint consists of 313 participants and was achieved by Storebrand Livsforsikring (Norway), in Fornebu, Norway, on 2 April 2016. The participants, who were arranged in a figure representing the structure of the DNA molecule with Bulgarian flags formed between the DNA helix, had to remain static for five minutes in order for the record to be recognised. During these five minutes the participants listened to the anthems of Bulgaria and Europe. The rector of Varna's Medical University, Prof. Krasimir Ivanov, was presented with the official certificate for the record. The event was organised by the university and was in support of Varna's designation as European Youth Capital for 2017. The participants, who were from different nationalities and ages, were entertained by popular musicians and the dance ensemble of the university. The previous Guinness World Records world record for the largest human DNA helix was set by 3034 participants from Ankara's Hacettepe University in 2013.


--- [Medical University Varna - Study medicine in Bulgaria MU-Varna Set a ...] ---
Today, 23rd April, at the South Beach in Varna, 4000 people managed to break the Guinness World Record for the Largest Human DNA Helix. Organizer of the spectacular event is Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov "- Varna. The event was carried out under the motto "Be a Part of the Future", through which the organizers united people of all ages. The record was verified by the Official Adjudicator for Guinness World Records Mr. Jack Brockbank, who awarded the Official Guinness Certificate to the Rector of MU-Varna Prof. Dr. Krasimir Ivanov. 4000 people of different nationalities listened to the Bulgarian National Anthem and the Anthem of Europe, and then 8 Bulgarian flags, formed by people, could be observed from a bird's-eye view. The participants and the audience were exhilarated by the talented young singers Trayan Kostov and Hristina Hristova, the beatboxer Iskren Tonchev – Iskrata (The Spark) and the band Ice Cream, who filmed the video for their new single "I Feel Like Dancing". The folk dance ensemble of Medical University - Varna performed traditional folk dances, interweaving the Bulgarian folk music in the exclusive performance by the sea. The Guinness World Records in Varna is a fact thanks to the personal initiative and organization of Medical University - Varna in support of Varna - European Youth Capital for 2017. The event was carried out with the kind support of the Municipality of Varna, the concessionaire of South Beach - Lazur 91 and the National Student Council Representation, and with the support of: Mtel, Refan, Vereya, Lirex, "St. Nikolay Chudotvorets" Medical Eye Centre, Medico-Dental Centre-Varna, Esen Ltd, Prima Pharmacies, Eco-hotels, Black Sea Hotel, "Delfin1" Para Medica, the companies Stemo, Vali, Piero, Misho, Kratos 13, Cable Systems Plc, Party DJ's, AB Travel, Dentatehnika, Elta 90, Gplay and media partners - 24 hours, Trud, Standart, Darik radio, www.moreto.net, www.varnautre.bg, www.actualno.com, www.vnews.bg and Black Sea TV.


--- [Largest human DNA helix | غينيس للأرقام القياسية] ---
Largest human DNA helix - من - Medical University of Varna - ماذا - 4000 people - أين - Bulgaria (Varna) - متى - 23 April 2016 The largest human DNA helix involved 4,000 participants, achieved by the Medical University of Varna (Bulgaria), in Varna, Bulgaria, on 23 April 2016. The record breaking human DNA helix was formed on South Beach in Varna, Bulgaria, on the coast of the Black Sea.


--- [Bulgaria's Varna Sets Guinness World Record for Largest Human DNA Helix ...] ---
Photo: Facebook page of Medical University Varna A total of 4000 people gathered on the southern beach in the Bulgarian city of Varna on Saturday, setting a Guinness World Record for the largest human DNA helix. The participants, who were arranged in a figure representing the structure of the DNA molecule with Bulgarian flags formed between the DNA helix, had to remain static for five minutes in order for the record to be recognised. During these five minutes the participants listened to the anthems of Bulgaria and Europe. The achievement was recognised by the official adjudicator of Guinness World Records, Jack Brockbank. The rector of Varna's Medical University, Prof. Krasimir Ivanov, was presented with the official certificate for the record. The event was organised by the university and was in support of Varna's designation as European Youth Capital for 2017. The participants, who were from different nationalities and ages, were entertained by popular musicians and the dance ensemble of the university. The previous record for the largest human DNA helix was set by 3034 participants from Ankara's Hacettepe University in 2013.
