=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia]
In 2011 Parker curated an exhibition titled Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain for the Collections Gallery at the Whitechapel Gallery in London using selected works from the Government Art Collection arranged as a colour spectrum. For the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in 2014, Parker curated the Black and White Room which included a number of well-known artists who she thought should be ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornelia_Parker

[Summer Exhibition 2014]
Aug 17, 2014 — ... Exhibition an annual highlight of the cultural calendar. This year, you can explore the black and white room curated by Cornelia Parker, see ...
URL: https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/exhibition/summer-exhibition-2014

[Chisenhale Gallery - Archive - Parker]
Oct 27, 1991 · Her recent curatorial projects include the Black and White Room at the RA Summer Exhibition 2014 and Found at the Foundling Museum, London (2016). Cornelia Parker was awarded an OBE in 2010 and was nominated for the Turner Prize in 1997. She lives and works in London. Cornelia Parker is represented by Frith Street Gallery, London.
URL: https://chisenhale.org.uk/archive/artist/cornelia-parker/

[TRACES: Cornelia Parker – dreamideamachine ART VIEW]
In recent years, Parker has also worked as a curator of exhibitions including “Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain” at the Whitechapel Gallery (2011) in which she arranged works from the Government Art Collection in a spectrum of rainbow colors, the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition (2014) in which she curated a black and white room and ...
URL: https://www.dreamideamachine.com/?p=59848

[Summer Exhibition 2014 at the Royal Academy of Arts]
Jun 4, 2014 — An innovation this year is the Black and White Room (in the large Lecture Room) curated by Cornelia Parker RA. She invited Royal Academicians ...
URL: https://makingamark.blogspot.com/2014/06/summer-exhibition-2014-at-royal-academy.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia] ---
Cornelia Ann Parker  (born 14 July 1956) is an English visual artist, best known for her sculpture and installation art.




--- [Summer Exhibition 2014] ---
Summer Exhibition 2014 Discover the new. Discover the now. 9 June - 17 August 2014 Main Galleries, Burlington House Saturday – Thursday 10am – 6pm Friday 10am – 10pm £13.50 (without donation £12). Concessions available. Friends of the RA and under 16s go free. Friends of the RA go free Everything you’ll see at the Summer Exhibition represents what is happening in the art world right now. New and recent art created by everyone from emerging artists to the biggest names in contemporary art and architecture. This is the world’s largest open entry exhibition and we’ve been holding it for nearly 250 years – that’s nine British monarchies, 43 US Presidents, two World Wars and more than 50 British Prime Ministers. Throughout that time, the Summer Exhibition has remained a powerful barometer of the art of each age. And the same simple premise has always applied – anyone can enter and all of the works are chosen by leading artists. The sheer variety of work presented each year is what makes the Summer Exhibition an annual highlight of the cultural calendar. This year, you can explore the black and white room curated by Cornelia Parker, see what our new RAs Thomas Heatherwick and Bob and Roberta Smith have in store and, as ever, view hundreds of other works by people who may yet become your new favourite artists. Who will you discover? Saturday – Thursday 10am – 6pm Friday 10am – 10pm £13.50 (without donation £12). Concessions available. Friends of the RA and under 16s go free. Friends of the RA go free Supporters Sponsored by Media partner Sponsored by Insight Investment Behind the scenes We visited Cornelia Parker RA as she put the finishing touches to her black-and-white themed gallery in the Summer Exhibition, and asked how she went about putting it all together. Behind the scenes In the fifth of our behind-the-scenes videos, Summer Exhibition 2014 Coordinator Hughie O'Donoghue RA explains what is new and different about this year's show. Behind the scenes In the fourth of our behind-the-scenes videos, we join the Summer Exhibition Preview Party - one of the most glamorous events in the London calendar and a major fundraiser for the Royal Academy. Behind the scenes In the third of our behind-the-scenes videos, we join in the festivities of Varnishing Day - a celebration that begins with a procession to St James's Piccadilly for a special service for artists, and ends with a party in the galleries. Behind the scenes In the second of our behind-the-scenes videos about the RA Summer Exhibition 2014, we take a look at the judging process and speak to the exhibition's coordinator, Hughie O'Donoghue RA. Behind the scenes In the first of our behind-the-scenes videos about the RA Summer Exhibition 2014, we speak to some of the artists submitting their work to be judged. History of the Summer Exhibition When we held our first exhibition in 1769 the very idea of an exhibition open to the public was a new and exciting innovation. That year, just 136 works were displayed but among them were portraits by our founder Sir Joshua Reynolds and a large landscape by Gainsborough. In the early days it was felt that the entrance fee of a shilling would deter undesirables. However those who paid the price were not necessarily there for the art alone. The great room at Somerset House provided a neutral territory, where the sexes could mingle, trysts be made, the celebrities and fashionistas of the age could show themselves. Turner finished some of his late masterpieces, including Rain, Steam and Speed — The Great Western Railway, in the Summer Exhibition itself. Varnishing Day was traditionally used for varnishing and touching up paintings in the galleries just before the exhibition opened to the public. An onlooker recalled him "standing very close up to the canvas, [he] appeared to paint with his eyes and nose as well as his hands." In 1917 a Zeppelin landed a direct hit on one of the galleries. Luckily no one was hurt and no works of art damaged. We got off lightly, and the war did nothing to halt the progress of the summer exhibition. Each spring between 1914 – 1919 and 1939 – 45 we opened our doors to the public and welcomed them in. In accordance with long Royal Academy tradition, those Royal Academicians who select and hang the exhibition are served a beverage known as beef tea. The exact recipe for beef tea remains a closely guarded secret. This year, for the first time, artists have submitted their works digitally for the initial round of judging. The hanging committee of Royal Academicians led by Hughie O’Donoghue, the coordinator of the Summer Exhibition 2014, have selected from the 12,000 entries received. The difference between an amateur and professional artist is interesting. A professional is someone who got lucky and found an audience willing to pay for their work. Grayson Perry RA Inside the Summer Exhibition Talks and tours Get more out of the exhibition Exhibition Tours 45 minutes Free with an exhibition ticket, no booking required. Friday 7pm (13 June – 15 August) Family Tours Free with an exhibition ticket, no booking required. Sundays in July 2.30pm Exhibition spotlight talks 10 minute talks on individual works from current exhibitions, free with exhibition entry. Thursday 3pm Shop Information for artists How to enter artwork to the Summer Exhibition 2015 Entry for next year's Summer Exhibition will open early in the new year. For the first round of the selection process, artists must submit digital photographs of their work online. The judges will shortlist up to 4,000 entries to be delivered to the Academy for a second round.


--- [Chisenhale Gallery - Archive - Parker] ---
Cornelia Parker Cornelia Parker was born in Cheshire, England in 1956. She studied at Gloucestershire College of Art & Design, Wolverhampton Polytechnic and Reading University. Parker’s exhibition history since 1991 includes solo exhibitions at many national and international museums and galleries, such as the Whitworth, The University of Manchester; The Bodleian Library, University of Oxford; Ikon Gallery, Birmingham; Whitechapel Gallery, London; Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Gateshead; and Serpentine Galleries, London. In recent years, her major commissions have been included TransitionalObject (PsychoBarn) at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (2016); and Magna Carta (An Embroidery)at the British Library, London (2015). Parker has participated in the Gwangju and Sydney Biennials and the Aichi and Guangzhou Triennials. Her recent curatorial projects include the Black and White Room at the RA Summer Exhibition 2014 and Found at the Foundling Museum, London (2016). Cornelia Parker was awarded an OBE in 2010 and was nominated for the Turner Prize in 1997. She lives and works in London. Cornelia Parker is represented by Frith Street Gallery, London.


--- [TRACES: Cornelia Parker – dreamideamachine ART VIEW] ---
TRACES: Cornelia Parker Today is the occasion to bear in mind Cornelia Parker (14/7/1956- ). She is well known for her large scale, often site specific, installations. Her engagement with the fragility of existence and the transformation of matter is exemplified in two key works “Dark Matter” a cartoon-like reconstruction of an exploded army shed, and “Heart of Darkness” the formal arrangement of charred remains from a forest fire. There is an apocalyptic tone to much of her work but she also demonstrates a concern with the more insidious effects of global warming and consumerism. Through documents or interviews, starting with: moments and memories, we reveal out from the past-unknown sides of big personalities, who left their indelible traces in time and history… By Efi Michalarou Cornelia Parker was born in Cheshire, England, in 1956. She spent a lot of time helping her father, doing physical work on the land, and saw escape and play as something rare and secretive. In Parker’s early teens, her mother was diagnosed with schizophrenia and was hospitalised periodically for electric shock treatment. She likens her practice to therapy as well as to the play she craved as a child. Parker studied at Gloucestershire College of Art and Design (1974-75) followed by Wolverhampton Polytechnic (1975-78), having been overlooked by the big London colleges. Later she earned her MFA at Reading University (1980-82) before settling in East London. She found it liberating to work at home, alone; the idea of a large studio with a group of assistants has never appealed to her. Parker’s home life fed into her work, for example she credits the demolition of her neighbour’s house for inspiring her major work “Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View” (1991). She writes “The sense of temporariness must have influenced the blowing up of the shed”. In this period, Parker began to work using found objects, which she came across as part of her job as a market salesperson. Parker came to fame in 1995 with collaborative piece “The Maybe” at the Serpentine Gallery, London – where she built a glass case inside the gallery in which performer and friend Tilda Swinton lay asleep in for eight hours each day. However, her success as she sees it did not arrive until two years later. In 1997 she met her husband, the artist Jeff McMillan, who helped her to collect pieces of wood for “Mass (Colder Darker Matter)” (1997). In the same year, she was signed by Frith Gallery in London and was nominated for the Turner Prize along with three other female artists. By the time of her nomination Parker was 40, and has spoken of the independence that her initial lack of gallery representation and distance from the commercial art market afforded her. This was in contrast to the experience of the slightly younger Young British Artists (for example Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin) who rose to fame around this time. Nevertheless, Parker has always known the value of her own work. Having refused offers from private collectors, “Thirty Pieces of Silver” and “Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View” were bought by Tate in 1995. At 45, Parker became a mother to daughter Lily, and allowed this to feed into her work. Continuing to work with “Avoided Objects”, her work “Black Path” (2013) developed from a game the two played as they walked through East London, avoiding stepping on the cracks in the pavement. Other recent works on this theme include “Unsettled” (2012), based around broken furniture and “Prison Wall Abstracts: A Man Escaped” (2012-13), inspired by cracked walls. In recent years, Parker has also worked as a curator of exhibitions including “Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain” at the Whitechapel Gallery (2011) in which she arranged works from the Government Art Collection in a spectrum of rainbow colors, the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition (2014) in which she curated a black and white room and “FOUND” at the Foundling Museum (2016) in which she and sixty-eight other artists responded to the eponymous theme. Recently, as official Election Artist for the UK’s 2017 general election (the first female artist in the role), Parker documented the distress and panic of a time fraught with political instability and terrorist attacks, by way of two films and a series of photographs. Her appointment could prompt a more political reading of her work from here on, as it explores the aftermath of violent change (both physical and societal) and disarms the taboo. Older than the Young British Artists but younger than the previous generation, including artists Antony Gormley and Anish Kapoor, Parker sees herself as part of a “lost generation”, who had to work hard for their success.


--- [Summer Exhibition 2014 at the Royal Academy of Arts] ---
I visited the 246th Summer Exhibition of the Royal Academy of Arts today. Below you'll find a photoessay about exhibition plus two sections about - facts about the Summer Exhibition 2014 - changes in the Summer Exhibition I'll be doing another couple of posts - about artwork I liked and who won the Prizes - with the big one being announced on Saturday night. I wasn't blown away by any of the rooms or pieces in the show - although there's a lot to like - however I still puzzle as to how or why some pieces get in! Overall it's both well hung and 'hangs together' better than some other shows Some facts about the 246th Summer Exhibition Entries and artworks - 12,000 people entered works for the exhibition via the open entry; - 1,262 artworks are listed in the catalogue - works from this year's selection from the open entry were initially selected from digital images Summer Exhibition Committee The Summer Exhibition Committee for 2014 includes the following Royal Academicians: Hughie O’Donoghue (coordinator) - who have the tour this morning. Plus Eileen Cooper, Gus Cummins, Richard MacCormac, John Maine, Chris Orr, Cornelia Parker, Eric Parry and Emma Stibbon. Summer Exhibition - Venue | Opening dates and times The Summer Exhibition can be seen in the Main Galleries of the RA's home at Burlington House, in Piccadilly. It opens to the public on Monday 9th June and finishes on 17th August 2014. The exhibition is open - daily 10am – 6pm daily (last admission 5.30pm) - with a late night opening on Fridays until 10pm (last admission 9.30pm) Tickets are available daily at the RA or by visiting www.royalacademy.org.uk. Admission prices include the List of Works giving details on every exhibit in the show. Adult ticket £13.50 (without Gift Aid donation £12); concessions available; under 12s go free. Friends of the RA go free. Art for sale - the majority of art is for sale - the top price I've spotted (to date) is £600,000 for Last Train by new academician Ron Arad RA. (Check out his website - I was left wondering how come it had taken the RA so long to invite him to become a member!) - the most sales come from the Print Room - very popular with visitors as it offers the opportunity to buy art without a mortgage! New Academicians - there are more new Royal Academicians this year than ever before. - most of the new RAs have never exhibited at the RA before - all art submitted by the RA has to be hung - so in effect the look and feel of the exhibition is dictated by the work submitted by the RAs End of an era - The number of new Academicians in part reflects the deaths of academicians. The Summer Exhibition 2014 will also feature works in memory of the Royal Academicians - John Bellany (1942 – 2013), - Ralph Brown (1928 – 2013), - Sir Anthony Caro (1924 – 2013), - Maurice Cockrill (1936 – 2013) and - Alan Davie (1920 – 2014). How they spend the money - One of the Royal Academy of Arts' founding principles is to 'mount an annual exhibition open to all artists of distinguished merit' to finance the training of young artists - Commissions from sales are used to fund the training of young artists who are postgraduate students in in the Royal Academy Schools. They pay no fees for the duration of their studies. Some changes for 2014 - The Wohl Central Hall is devoted to work by new RAs - including this very unusual sculpture by Yinko Shonibare RA | | The Small Weston Room | | | The Small Weston Room - East Wall | | The Small Weston Room the right hand wall includes two small paintings by Una Stubbs of Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman | - The Architecture Room this year is dominated by concepts and ideas rather than lots of rather large models - and becomes much more accessible as a result. It also has a rather splendid and odd bicycle which can actually be ridden. | | Part of the Architecture RoomThe Bike ('Town Nuns') is by Ron Arad £100,000 | - Sculpture has this year been mixed predominantly with drawings and that seemed to work very well. The | | Sign by Bob and Roberta Smith | - An innovation this year is the Black and White Room (in the large Lecture Room) curated by Cornelia Parker RA. She invited Royal Academicians Michael Craig-Martin, Richard Deacon, Tacita Dean, and Michael Landy to exhibit works, as well as other high-profile artists who previously wouldn't have thought of entering the Summer Exhibition such as Martin Creed, Jeremy Deller, Mona Hatoum, Christian Marclay, Laure Prouvost and David Shrigley. Some of the artists have created new works specifically for this room. In a way it's a bit like having a curated contemporary art exhibition in the middle of a gigantic art society exhibition. It works very well. | | Part of The Black and White Room curated by Cornelia Parker | - There's a very big black painting by Sean Scully RA which dominated the end wall in Room III | Room III - the end wall is dominated by Doric Night - a large black oil painting on aluminium by Sean Scully which can be seen from the other end of the Main Galleries | The exhibition is sponsored by Insight
