=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lisa Marie Presley's Death: Inside the Sudden Passing of Elvis and Priscilla ...]
Sep 22, 2025 · Lisa Marie Presley, the only child of Elvis and Priscilla Presley, died in January 2023 at 54 years old. Here's everything to know about Lisa Marie Presley's death.
URL: https://people.com/lisa-marie-presley-death-legacy-everything-to-know-11814428

[Lisa Marie Presley - Wikipedia]
Elvis and Priscilla with newborn Lisa Marie, 1968 Lisa Marie Presley was born on February 1, 1968, at Baptist Memorial Hospital-Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee, [1] the only child of Elvis and Priscilla Presley. She was born nine months to the day after her parents' wedding. [2] When Lisa Marie was four years old, her parents separated, and their divorce was finalized in October 1973. She lived ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisa_Marie_Presley

[Lisa Marie Presley died from weight loss surgery complications, officials ...]
Jul 14, 2023 · LOS ANGELES — Lisa Marie Presley died from complications from bariatric surgery she had several years ago, authorities said Thursday. The January 12 death at age 54 of the singer, songwriter and ...
URL: https://www.npr.org/2023/07/14/1187641098/lisa-marie-presley-cause-of-death

[Lisa Marie Presley died from small bowel obstruction caused by ...]
Jul 13, 2023 · LOS ANGELES (AP) — Lisa Marie Presley died from complications from bariatric surgery she had several years ago, authorities said Thursday. The January 12 death at age 54 of the singer, songwriter and heir of Elvis Presley was ruled as being from natural causes due to effects of a small bowel obstruction.
URL: https://apnews.com/article/lisa-marie-presley-death-cause-cbf0039dd8251a870f3ad8431dc78093

[Lisa Marie Presley's cause of death revealed - BBC]
Jul 13, 2023 · The only child of music icon Elvis Presley died after being rushed to a hospital on 12 January.
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-66195853


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lisa Marie Presley's Death: Inside the Sudden Passing of Elvis and Priscilla ...] ---
Lisa Marie Presley's Death: Inside the Sudden Passing of Elvis and Priscilla Presley's Only Child Lisa Marie died at 54 years old on Jan. 12, 2023 By Jordana Comiter Jordana Comiter Jordana Comiter is an Associate Editor on the Evergreen team at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2024. Her work has previously appeared in Women’s Health Magazine, PopSugar, VeryWell Mind, Business Insider and The Chicago Reader. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 22, 2025 05:08PM EDT 8 Comments Lisa Marie Presley during the 2013 CMT Music Awards on June 5, 2013, in Nashville. Credit : Christopher Polk/Getty NEED TO KNOW Lisa Marie Presley, the only child of Elvis and Priscilla Presley, died in January 2023 at 54 years oldThe singer's legacy lives on through her three surviving children and two grandchildrenIn Priscilla's new memoir, Softly, as I Leave You: Life After Elvis, she recounts her daughter's death as the "second saddest day of my life, other than losing Elvis" Lisa Marie Presley's death in 2023 rocked the world. Born in February 1968, Lisa Marie was the only daughter of the late Elvis Presley and Priscilla Presley. Though she grew up in the spotlight, Lisa Marie went on to carve out her own legacy, launching her musical career in 2003 with her debut album To Whom It May Concern. Outside of her work, Lisa Marie built a family of her own, welcoming two children with ex-husband Danny Keough and two more with ex-husband Michael Lockwood. In January 2023, Priscilla confirmed her daughter's death in a statement to PEOPLE, saying, "It is with a heavy heart that I must share the devastating news that my beautiful daughter Lisa Marie has left us." "She was the most passionate, strong and loving woman I have ever known," Priscilla added. Lisa Marie was laid to rest at Graceland next to her son, Benjamin, who died by suicide in July 2020 at 27 years old. In the years since, Priscilla has been candid about her grief, and is now sharing more details in her new memoir, Softly, as I Leave You: Life After Elvis. Ahead of its Sept. 23 release, Priscilla told PEOPLE that her daughter's passing was the "second saddest day of my life, other than losing Elvis." Here's everything to know about Lisa Marie Presley's death. When did Lisa Marie Presley die? Lisa Marie Presley at the 'Mad Max: Fury Road' Premiere on May 7, 2015, in Hollywood, Calif. Jeffrey Mayer/WireImage Lisa Marie died on Jan. 12, 2023, just two days after she attended the 2023 Golden Globes with her mother Priscilla and Elvis star Austin Butler. On the morning of Jan. 12, paramedics responded to a cardiac arrest call and arrived to her Calabasas, Calif., home. Upon seeing that the patient had "signs of life," they rushed her to the hospital for "immediate medical care." "My beloved daughter Lisa Marie was rushed to the hospital. She is now receiving the best care. Please keep her and our family in your prayers," Priscilla said in a statement to PEOPLE at the time. "We feel the prayers from around the world and ask for privacy at this time." Priscilla confirmed her death that evening. Ahead of the release of her memoir, Priscilla shared more details to PEOPLE about that tragic day. "We were there all day long," Priscilla said. "Lisa really wasn't breathing, so she was on the ventilator. For hours we were there waiting, hoping and praying until the doctor came in and said, 'Priscilla, I'm so sorry, she's gone.' We just couldn't believe it — didn't want to believe it. It was hard on all of us, it still is." Priscilla also shared an exclusive excerpt from the memoir with PEOPLE that recounted more details about that day. "I knew from the first moment I walked into Lisa’s hospital room that she was already gone," she wrote. "She was hooked to a machine that was breathing for her, and she had a heartbeat. There was little brain activity. Her spirit, always so vital, wasn’t there." How did Lisa Marie Presley die? Lisa Marie Presley performs for 'Good Morning America' in Hollywood, Calif. Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic The singer died of sequelae of small bowel obstruction, according to the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner. A sequelae is defined as "a condition which is the consequence of a previous disease of injury," and in Lisa Marie's case was "in the form of a strangulated small bowel caused by adhesions that developed after bariatric surgery years ago," per the coroner's report. Related Stories Elvis Presley's Death: The Details Behind the King of Rock 'n' Roll's Passing Everything Lisa Marie Presley Said About Overcoming Difficult Times — from Marriages to Losing Her Son However, in her daughter Riley Keough's eyes, Lisa Marie’s death was the result of a "broken heart" from grieving her son. "My mom tried her best to find strength for me and my younger sisters after Ben died, but we knew how much pain she was in," she told PEOPLE in September 2024. "My mom physically died from the after effects of her surgery, but we all knew she died of a broken heart." How old was Lisa Marie Presley when she died? Lisa Marie Presley at the 80th Annual Golden Globe Awards on Jan. 10, 2023, in Beverly Hills, Calif. Todd Williamson/NBC/NBC via Getty Lisa Marie, who was born on Feb. 1, 1968, was 54 years old when she died. What legacy did Lisa Marie Presley leave behind? Riley Keough, Priscilla Presley, Harper Vivienne Ann Lockwood, Lisa Marie Presley and Finley Aaron Love Lockwood at a Special Screening of 'Elvis' on June 11, 2022, in Memphis, Tenn. Eric Charbonneau/Getty Following Lisa Marie's death, her posthumous memoir — From Here to the Great Unknown — was released in October 2024. Lisa Marie had recorded her story on a series of tapes, which Riley listened to after her mother’s death. Per the book's description, From Here to the Great Unknown is the result of a mother and daughter working together “as they try to heal each other." In addition to Riley, who has paved her way in Hollywood as an actress, Lisa Marie's legacy lives on through her other two daughters — twins Harper and Finley Lockwood — whom she shares with ex-husband Lockwood. She was also a grandmother to Riley's two children, whom she shares with her husband Ben Smith-Petersen. In January 2023, a few days before Lisa Marie's memorial service, Lockwood said that their twins would "carry on the family legacy" in a statement to PEOPLE. "The most important thing to me at this time is to take care of my daughters, making sure they always feel safe and loved," he said. "Both of them have incredible spirit and they will carry our family's legacy on for the rest of their lives." Riley was later named the sole trustee of Lisa Marie's estate, which includes Elvis' Graceland property. How did the public react to Lisa Marie Presley's death? A public memorial for Lisa Marie Presley on Jan. 22, 2023, in Memphis, Tenn. Jason Kempin/Getty In the wake of Lisa Marie's death, online tributes poured in from stars and fans alike. "Lisa Marie, you were one of a kind. Funny as s---, smart as a whip, sensitive, talented, witty, mean, loving, generous, judgmental but always right, loyal, and you adored your children," Pink wrote on Instagram. "The world lost a rare gem today. May your soul rest in peace, friend. 💔." Dolly Parton penned a tribute to the entire family on Instagram, writing, "Priscilla, I know how sad you must be. May God comfort you at this time. Elvis, I know how happy you must be to finally have her home and to have her back with you. Lisa Marie, may you rest in peace. We all love all of you." On Jan. 22, Lisa Marie's family and friends — as well as Elvis director Baz Luhrmann and actor Butler — gathered in Graceland for a celebration of her life. Once family and friends paid their respects, fans and media were given the opportunity to visit the Meditation Garden. One fan, Riley Siegfried, described the memorial service as "very impactful and beautiful." Close Leave a Comment Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Deaths


--- [Lisa Marie Presley - Wikipedia] ---
Lisa Marie Presley (February 1, 1968 – January 12, 2023) was an American singer-songwriter. The daughter of singer and actor Elvis Presley and actress Priscilla Presley, she became the sole heir to her father's estate following the deaths of her grandfather and great-grandmother. She was also known for her marriage to Michael Jackson, whom she wed in 1994 and divorced in 1996. 
Presley released three studio albums—To Whom It May Concern (2003), Now What (2005), and Storm & Grace (2012). To Whom It May Concern was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America. She also released several non-album singles, including posthumous duets with her father created from archival recordings.
Her memoir, From Here to the Great Unknown, completed by her daughter Riley Keough, was published posthumously in October 2024.


--- [Lisa Marie Presley died from weight loss surgery complications, officials ...] ---
Lisa Marie Presley died from complications from weight loss surgery, officials say LOS ANGELES — Lisa Marie Presley died from complications from bariatric surgery she had several years ago, authorities said Thursday. The January 12 death at age 54 of the singer, songwriter and heir of Elvis Presley was ruled as being from natural causes due to effects of a small bowel obstruction. Additional details about what caused Presley's death were included in an autopsy report released Thursday afternoon by the office of the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner. The report says the complication that Presley experienced is a common complication from bariatric surgery, which is a weight loss procedure. The Mayo Clinic says it is often done when other weight loss methods haven't worked or if a person has a serious medical condition. Presley died at a Los Angeles hospital, where she had been rushed by paramedics responding to a 911 call of a woman in cardiac arrest at her home. No indication was made public at the time of what may have caused the medical issue. The autopsy report said she had been complaining of stomach pain earlier in the day. She was buried at a Jan. 22 funeral at Graceland, the home where she lived with her father as a child that has become a museum, tourist attraction and shrine for Elvis fans. Presley left behind three daughters, 34-year-old "Daisy Jones & the Six" actor Riley Keough and 15-year-old twins Harper and Finley Lockwood. A son, Benjamin Keough, died in 2020. In the immediate aftermath of her death, it appeared that a major legal fight would ensue over Presley's estate. Four days after her funeral, her mother, Priscilla Presley, filed court documents disputing a 2016 amendment to Lisa Marie Presley's living trust that removed Priscilla Presley and a former business manager as trustees and replaced them with her two eldest children. But Priscilla Presley and Riley Keough – who is now acting as sole trustee – agreed to a settlement in May. Riley Keough was nominated for her first Emmy on Wednesday, for best actress in a limited series or TV movie for "Daisy Jones & the Six."


--- [Lisa Marie Presley died from small bowel obstruction caused by ...] ---
Lisa Marie Presley died from small bowel obstruction caused by bariatric surgery, coroner says LOS ANGELES (AP) — Lisa Marie Presley died from complications from bariatric surgery she had several years ago, authorities said Thursday. The January 12 death at age 54 of the singer, songwriter and heir of Elvis Presley was ruled as being from natural causes due to effects of a small bowel obstruction. Additional details about what caused Presley’s death were included in an autopsy report released Thursday afternoon by the office of the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner. The report says the complication that Presley experienced is a common complication from bariatric surgery, which is a weight loss procedure. The Mayo Clinic says it is often done when other weight loss methods haven’t worked or if a person has a serious medical condition. Presley died at a Los Angeles hospital, where she had been rushed by paramedics responding to a 911 call of a woman in cardiac arrest at her home. No indication was made public at the time of what may have caused the medical issue. The autopsy report said she had been complaining of stomach pain earlier in the day. She was buried at a Jan. 22 funeral at Graceland, the home where she lived with her father as a child that has become a museum, tourist attraction and shrine for Elvis fans. Presley left behind three daughters, 34-year-old “Daisy Jones & the Six” actor Riley Keough and 15-year-old twins Harper and Finley Lockwood. A son, Benjamin Keough, died in 2020. In the immediate aftermath of her death, it appeared that a major legal fight would ensue over Presley’s estate. Four days after her funeral, her mother, Priscilla Presley, filed court documents disputing a 2016 amendment to Lisa Marie Presley’s living trust that removed Priscilla Presley and a former business manager as trustees and replaced them with her two eldest children. But Priscilla Presley and Riley Keough – who is now acting as sole trustee – agreed to a settlement in May. Riley Keough was nominated for her first Emmy on Wednesday, for best actress in a limited series or TV movie for “Daisy Jones & the Six.”


--- [Lisa Marie Presley's cause of death revealed - BBC] ---
Lisa Marie Presley's cause of death revealed Lisa Marie Presley, the only child of rock 'n' roll legend Elvis, died of a bowel obstruction, the Los Angeles County medical examiner's office has said. The obstruction was a result of adhesions caused by weight-loss surgery she underwent several years ago. Presley, also a singer, died after being rushed to a California hospital on 12 January. She was 54. Her last public appearance was two days before her death, at the Golden Globes. At the time of Presley's death, local officials said first responders had been dispatched to her home in Calabasas, where they found her in cardiac arrest. On Thursday, the medical examiner's office ruled that she died of natural causes and said that the cardiac arrest was caused by a "small bowel obstruction". This occurs when the small intestine is blocked, sometimes as a result of colon cancer, medication or adhesions (scar tissue) that form after surgeries. Some conditions that inflame intestines can also lead to small bowel obstructions. In Presley's case, the report found that the adhesions were caused by weight-loss surgery, known as bariatric surgery, that she underwent several years ago. "This is a known long-term complication of this type of surgery," the medical examiner's report noted. Dr Angelique Campen, an emergency room physician at Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, California, told the BBC's US partner, CBS, that deaths from small bowel obstructions are rare. In many cases, patients in such cases experience significant pain and would probably be admitted to hospital. Presley, a singer and songwriter, was ultimately buried next to her son Benjamin Keough, who killed himself in 2020. After her death, her mother, Priscilla Presley, filed a legal challenge to the will's validity, arguing that she was unaware of a 2016 amendment that had ousted her as a trustee overseeing Lisa Marie's estate. Instead, the amendment named Benjamin Keough and a daughter, Riley, as co-trustees. Both were the children of Lisa Marie's first-husband, Danny Keough. The legal dispute was settled in May. The details were never made public. Born in 1968, Lisa Marie Presley followed in her father's footsteps as a musician and released three albums over the course of her career. She was also well-known for four high-profile marriages, to Keough, pop star Michael Jackson, actor Nicolas Cage and musician Michael Lockwood.
