=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[SWV Share Perspective on Their Upcoming Reality Show (Exclusive ...]
Jul 29, 2013 · Jul 29, 2013 | Interviews Earlier this month at the Essence Music Festival after SWV made the announcement of their new reality show on WE TV, YouKnowIGotSoul was there to get the scoop. In this brief chat with the girls, we got their perspective on what they expected viewers to learn about them and if they have any hesitation about doing ...
URL: https://youknowigotsoul.com/exclusive-swv-share-perspective-on-their-upcoming-reality-show

[SWV - Wikipedia]
On July 7, 2013, during the Essence Music Festival, SWV announced that We TV green-lit a reality series that would detail their lives as a group and individually, professionally and personally.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SWV

[Essence This Time: A Festival Evolving : The Record]
Jul 12, 2016 — Headliners at the Essence Festival, which marked its 22 nd Fourth of July weekend in New Orleans earlier this month, play in the middle of the Superdome.
URL: https://www.npr.org/sections/therecord/2016/07/12/485707057/essence-this-time-a-festival-evolving

[SWV - Wikiwand]
On November 4, 2012, SWV performed on Black Girls Rock!, an organization founded to inspire young black girls, on BET. On July 7, 2013, during the Essence Music Festival, SWV announced that We TV green-lit a reality series that would detail their lives as a group and individually, professionally and personally.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/SWV

[SWV - WBSS Media]
On July 7, 2013, during the Essence Music Festival, SWV announced that WE tv green-lit a reality series that would detail their lives as a group and individually, professionally and personally.
URL: https://wbssmedia.com/artists/detail/4290


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [SWV Share Perspective on Their Upcoming Reality Show (Exclusive ...] ---
Earlier this month at the Essence Music Festival after SWV made the announcement of their new reality show on WE TV, YouKnowIGotSoul was there to get the scoop. In this brief chat with the girls, we got their perspective on what they expected viewers to learn about them and if they have any hesitation about doing reality TV. Check out their response in the video above. YouKnowIGotSoul: You guys have always been great at expressing yourselves through your music. What do you think we’ll learn on the show we don’t know about you guys already? SWV: Everything aside from the music. Our family lives, our backgrounds, the things that we’re into. It’s just a little beginning to our autobiography. YouKnowIGotSoul: Did you guys have any reservations about doing the show? SWV: We’re impartial. It’s work, it’s what you do. This is the new radio tour.


--- [SWV - Wikipedia] ---
SWV (Sisters with Voices) is an American R&B vocal trio from New York City whose members are Cheryl "Coko" Gamble, Tamara "Taj" George, and Leanne "Lelee" Lyons. Formed in 1988 as a gospel group, SWV became one of the most successful R&B groups of the 1990s. They had a series of hits, including the Billboard Hot 100 number-one single "Weak", as well as the top-ten songs "Right Here (Human Nature Remix)", "I'm So into You", and "You're the One". The group disbanded in 1998 to pursue solo projects and reunited in 2005.




--- [Essence This Time: A Festival Evolving : The Record] ---
Essence This Time: A Festival Evolving Headliners at the Essence Festival, which marked its 22nd Fourth of July weekend in New Orleans earlier this month, play in the middle of the Superdome, a cavernous arena that, as configured for the fest, seats about 50,000. Up on the stadium's plaza level, a cozier, less formal kind of show takes place. Four multipurpose party rooms deemed Superlounges, which each fit about 1,200 fans, serve as secondary stages. It's where you'll see something chill, like Robert Glasper's weird and hazy cover of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" this year; something old-school, like Morris Day and The Time's wild and loose dance party in 2011; or something slightly outside the lines, like Janelle Monae's Wondaland camp and their raucous 2013 takeover, a splatter of cosmic funk-rock n'roll that brought Stooges-level punk insanity to a festival whose defining sound is, by and large, smooth and sophisticated R&B for the grown-folks contingent. The lounges are also where you see the factors that have made Essence such a cultural touchstone that there's a whole movie — the Queen Latifah/Jada Pinkett Smith buddy flick Girl Trip, due out in summer 2017 and filmed in part at this year's fest — based around a group of friends going to Essence together. In 2012, my seventh year of attending every night of the festival for either the New Orleans alt-weekly, Gambit, or the state's biggest daily, the Times-Picayune, I saw a reunited SWV in a jam-packed Superlounge. Groups of women, and it was at least 90% women in there — cousins, sorority sisters, old friends — were singing along with every word, closing their eyes and shaking their heads with feeling, even weeping a little bit with their arms around each other. It was a special kind of intimate bonding in action, the kind that comes from seeing the music you love the most, live, in the company of people you love. Back in 1995, the magazine Essence threw a party to celebrate its 25th anniversary. The men who put it together — the publication's co-founder Edward Lewis and George Wein, who had essentially invented the large-scale American music festival 40 years prior with the Newport Jazz Festival — meant it to be a one-off. That party became instead an annual event, a three-day affair that this year attracted, as reported by the festival, over 450,000 people, about 25,000 more than bought tickets to the city's flagship seven-day Jazz and Heritage Festival in the spring. Two years ago, when the festival was celebrating its 20th anniversary and had Prince headlining, 550,000 people came out. Tourism leaders estimate the festival's economic impact at about $200 million, about $60 million more, as reported by the Chicago Tribune, than Lollapalooza attendees generated in that city last year and nearly four times as much, according to a 2012 study, as Bonnaroo's impact on Coffee County, Tennessee. Over the years the Essence festival has been put on — a full generation — a lot has, necessarily, changed (and a lot hasn't, too) with regard to the festival's music, its audience, its relationship to its host city and to the culture at large. In 2012, it changed its name from Essence Music Festival to Essence Festival, which didn't diminish the emphasis on music or alter anybody's habit of referring to the weekend with just one word. Beyonce got top billing that year, achieving one of the fest's rare sell-outs at the massively capacious Dome. But from its advent, the festival, reportedly the largest annual African-American gathering in the U.S. and subtitled "The Party with a Purpose," has been about more than musical performances. Even in its first year Rev. Jesse Jackson, Cornel West and Johnnie Cochran were among the speakers. In 2007, both contenders for the Democratic party's nomination, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, showed up. (Obama endorsed the O'Jays, who were playing the Dome that year.) This year there was no active campaigning, although there were several senior-level Obama administration officials and a few mayors on the docket — not to mention Oprah, making, surprisingly, her very first Essence Fest appearance. The purpose part of Essence takes place during the day, free and open to the public, at the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center. The program is stacked with heavy hitters: besides Oprah, this year delivered Soledad O'Brien interviewing both Tyra Banks and Misty Copeland (who reminisced about her friendship with Prince) the mothers of Trayvon Martin and Michael Brown, novelist Terry McMillan, Rev. Al Sharpton, Melissa Harris-Perry and Ava Duvernay, among others. There were special screenings of the new Lethal Weapon series, The Secret Life of Pets and Fox Searchlight Pictures' The Birth of A Nation, with appearances from cast members. There were workshops and presentations on beauty and fashion — including an appearance from Michelle Obama's hairstylist — career and finance strategies, and spirituality. On Sunday, the schedule was stacked with faith-based events: gospel performances all day, a morning prayer vigil and a lunchtime blessing from Bishop Lester Love. All of this action takes place amid a heady aura of consumerism. Essence's corporate sponsors are significant — McDonald's, Ford, Walmart and Coca-Cola, the presenting sponsor of the festival — and they have large footprints both in the Dome where, unlike any other music festival that readily comes to mind, commercials run incessantly between acts, and on the Convention Center floor. McDonald's gold, Coke red and Walmart blue dominate the center of the big room. You have to drift to the perimeter to find a different kind of marketplace. Gina Montana, the director of the Shops at Essence, started working for the festival as an administrative assistant in its first year, when it was helmed by Wein's production company and staffers from Jazz Fest, which is run by his Festival Productions, Inc., were hired to do double duty on the two shows. A single mother and masking Mardi Gras Indian queen, Montana was the kind of entrepreneurial, culturally engaged African-American woman that the Essence brand orients itself toward. She threw herself into developing and managing the festival's curated artists' bazaar, then called the African-Caribbean Marketplace and housed in one of the lounges at the Dome. Today, she manages all of the logistics involved with the 170 individual ten-by-ten booths that make up the Shops' jewelry, clothing, art and crafts vendors, as well as the 48 Community Corner tables that house health and wellness, political, cultural and educational organizations from the Innocence Project to the Greater Than AIDS campaign — which this year had a wraparound line for free HIV testing — to the nonprofit arm of the historic jazz venue Preservation Hall. ("I use Excel a lot," she says.) In her office off the Convention Center floor, Montana's radio is always humming. Her daughter, 27-year-old Jahia — who's helped Gina out with Essence duties "since she was 10 years old, licking envelopes with me on the living room floor" and is now a festival PA — is checking in with a vendor who needs assistance. Another production staffer is looking for golf carts to transport talent. Montana is proud of the balance between the big brands and the independent artisans she tends to in the Shops, which include Louisiana folk artists like basket-weaver Savannah Lewis as well as mixed-media artist Walter Lobyn Hamilton, whose portraits made with pieces of vinyl records have been featured on the show Empire. For the first time this year, Mardi Gras Indians displayed beaded and feathered suits in a fine arts context at the Shops; AJ Haynes, the lead singer of the Seratones, a Shreveport, La.-based garage-blues band that played a fuzzed-out Sunday-afternoon set at the Convention Center, posted a photo of herself at the Indians' booth on Instagram. The greater marketplace of New Orleans depends heavily on events like Essence. In its tourism-driven economy, the calendar seems to turn festival to festival, with huge waves of activity ebbing and flowing on a predictable schedule: Halloween, Mardi Gras, Jazz Fest, and so on. During each high season or hot weekend bars, restaurants, hotels and clubs meet the crowds with special programming, and Essence is, in part, no exception. Over this past Fourth of July weekend, there were pop-up fashion markets, day parties and late-night afterparties with homegrown stars like Mystikal and Mannie Fresh. On festival days Poydras Street, a wide artery that runs through the Central Business District toward the Superdome, became an open-air marketplace, with vendors hawking wares from dollar bottles of water out of coolers to T-shirts, artwork and full fish and shrimp dinners. Also on Poydras Street, about four blocks from the Superdome, is a branch of the chain sports bar Walk-On's, which was closed for the weekend. A photo of a sign on the bar's locked doors went locally viral on social media with the hashtag #closedforessence. Scrolling back, readers could see that the hashtag had been used in previous years; it referred to the pervasive suspicion that some businesses shut their doors during Essence to avoid serving its largely African-American audience, or stayed open but added an automatic tip to checks. Walk-On's, apparently mortified by the accusation, shared photos online showing its floors, soaked by a backed-up sewage pipe, and urged Essence guests to visit its two sister locations on the same block. But #closedforessence picked up speed on social media, as users shared photos of businesses that were shuttered or had posted signs announcing that they'd be charging the included gratuity. "This is nothing new — I started noticing it years ago," said Melissa Weber, better known as the popular radio and club DJ Soul Sister, during a phone call a few days before the festival. "When you close on purpose when thousands of people of color are coming to town, that sends a very direct message." Some business owners fired back, many claiming that even in the busy French Quarter or close to the Superdome, the holiday weekend was a slow one. New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu gave a careful statement to the local NBC affiliate WDSU on Sunday: "For those establishments that planned to close for this weekend to perform renovations or provide their staff the holiday off is understandable, but a major missed opportunity," he said. "But for those that do not want to serve our visitors during Essence is absolutely outrageous and totally unacceptable." When Sonali Fernando, a graduate of Loyola University in New Orleans' music-business studies program and a former restaurant owner, got a job at the Ace Hotel just off of Poydras Street, Essence was on her mind. The new branch of the chain, whose eight other locations regularly book live music, speakers and readings, opened its doors here in March, right as New Orleans' spring and summer run of music festivals began. As the hotel's cultural engineer, a sort of overarching curatorial position, she had ideas about showcasing the complexity of the city's heritage. For Essence, she booked PJ Morton, the rising singer-songwriter Moses Sumney and the funk trombonist Corey Henry, plus a special reception for Issa Rae's new HBO series Insecure, hosted by Solange. "We want to do programming that's diverse, that's inclusive and that's the best of what is out there," she said. "The hotel is a meeting place. It's a very old-school idea in that way, and it's a way to show visitors another part of New Orleans culture." The Ace's July Fourth weekend of shows and parties is a rebuke, intentional or not, of #closedforessence, offering the kind of piggybacking welcome and extra fun that is how most upscale hospitality businesses in town respond to a perceived market during events that aren't anywhere near Essence's size. For New Orleans tourists in general, who arguably come to the city expecting to experience a particular version of the city's African and Caribbean heritage — traditional jazz, Creole cuisine — it's a fresh perspective, and one that seems to speak to Essence's next generation, which festival bookers (FPI, the original producers of Essence and still the producers of Jazz Fest, ceased booking Essence in 2008; another New Orleans-based company, Solomon Group, has been running the show since 2013) seem to be deliberately working to cultivate. Essence the festival has always stuck admirably to the brand of Essence the magazine, which is, after all, a general-interest publication for black women. Beyond the depth and breadth of the programming (and the shopping) at the Convention Center, it has also adhered to that brand mission on its stages; each year, close to half of the booked talent is female, a nearly unprecedented ratio for a major music festival. There's also a certain conservatism to it. There are the aspirational, self-improvement fueled workshops, and the overt Christianity of its spiritual side. Famously, one year R. Kelly was blocked from bringing a risqué stage show involving a bed to the Dome. Hip-hop, traditionally, is booked sparingly. It's the kind of place you can go with your mom, and lots of people do — including Gina Montana, who brought both her co-worker/daughter Jahia and her 74-year-old mother to hear the Gap Band's Charlie Wilson on Saturday night, and The Internet's Syd Tha Kid, who is only two years older than the Essence Fest itself, and who greeted her own mom, in the audience, from the Superlounge stage. Twenty-odd years is a long time to do anything. In popular music time, it seems even longer. Acts that were on the come up in 1995 are now veterans, like Mary J. Blige, who got an 8 p.m. opening set at the inaugural Essence and returned frequently over the years, working her way up the bill until she topped it. Return performances like that contribute to Essence's familial feeling, and the biggest perennial of all was Frankie Beverly and Maze, who closed the festival for its first 15 years and whose absence, in 2010, when they weren't asked back for their traditional Sunday-night slot, prompted a sizable protest. Essence isn't necessarily ignoring rising and/or newly-risen acts. Spellbinding retro belter Andra Day, returning for her second Essence, deservedly made the jump from the lounges to the main stage. Estelle, who's played several Essences, got to curate her own lounge, resulting in a delightfully cheeky show from bouncy London MC Lady Leshurr. Packed Superlounges for The Internet, Kehlani, Dej Loaf and Jidenna, who gave probably the most explosive performance of the weekend, indicated that the festival is succeeding at drawing young audiences to see acts that are popular right now. But nostalgia is still a huge part of Essence. Charlie Wilson has ably repped the Maze generation for the past several years, putting on a glittery, sweaty display of old-school showmanship and flash. Even Prince, headlining in 2014, played a surprisingly catholic set of hits. Hip-hop has asserted itself on Essence's bill more in recent years, but with few exceptions, it's via acts that emerged before the festival did, like oft-returning performers MC Lyte and Doug E. Fresh. In 2016, two decades in, the question becomes whose nostalgia is it? Soul Sister, who served as Essence's mainstage DJ for three years, focuses her all-vinyl radio show and club night on music made around the time she was born — disco, funk, soul and go-go. The old-school headliners of Essence's early years were right up her alley: Gladys Knight and Luther Vandross and, of course, Maze, already a legacy act in 1995, 15 years after its classic Live in New Orleans. Now, Maze is still a regular in New Orleans, but at the daytime Jazz and Heritage Festival, where the headliners end their sets at 7 p.m. on the dot. "Today, the '90s stuff is considered old-school," Soul Sister said. "They still haven't solved the grand finale problem. Nobody can cross all ages and genders like Maze did, and make everybody dance." The 2016 headliners were, in order, Maxwell, Mariah Carey and a version of Puff Daddy's Bad Boy Family Reunion, which goes on tour in August: a '90s sampler platter. Maxwell smoldered through Prince's "Nothing Compares 2 U," as he did the weekend prior at the BET Awards. Carey, who is now used to a regular Vegas stage, was cheerfully awkward in the unfamiliar setting. And of course, there was the penultimate headliner of this year's closing night, Kendrick Lamar. Lamar closed out Essence last year, just a couple of months after releasing the chart-topping To Pimp A Butterfly and only about a week after the premiere of the extraordinary video for his single "Alright," a song that had been quickly embraced as an anthem by young people politicized by convulsions of racial injustice and police violence in America. Yet as his set went on past midnight that Sunday, the trickle of fans leaving the Dome turned into a flood. The show was electric, but the final set had, in the post-Maze years, become a challenging one — a late night after a long, long weekend with flights to catch the next day. Sunday-night attrition tended to afflict everyone, so it was nice this year to see Lamar in the second-to-last slot, feeding off of a still-packed and pumped-up room. But when Puff Daddy hit the stage solo after 11 p.m., it only escalated, the crowd intact and singing along to 15- and 20-year-old songs, all the way up to an emotional group performance — complete with a choir — of "I'll Be Missing You." Standing up in their seats, groups of women were swaying and singing together. 22 years into Essence, the festival is in its groove again — the new old school. Everybody danced.


--- [SWV - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [SWV - WBSS Media] ---
SWV (Sisters With Voices) is an American R&B vocal trio from New York City, New York whose members are Cheryl (Coko) Gamble, Tamara (Taj) Johnson and Leanne (Lelee) Lyons. Formed in 1988 as a gospel group, SWV became one of the most successful R&B groups of the 1990s. They had a series of hits, including "Weak", "Right Here (Human Nature Remix)", "I'm So into You", and "You're the One". The group disbanded in 1998 to pursue solo projects and reunited in 2005. SWV has sold more than 25 million records worldwide, making them one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Biography Early life and big break SWV (an abbreviation for Sisters With Voices) was formed by Cheryl "Coko" Gamble, Tamara "Taj" Johnson and Leanne "Lelee" Lyons (with Lelee and Coko as founding members). After getting their demo together, their manager at the time, Maureen Singleton sent out demo tapes along with bottles of Perrier ("We couldn't afford champagne", says Taj) to catch the attention of record execs all over America. In 1991, after being invited to sing live in front of RCA executives, SWV was signed to an eight-album record deal. 1992–1995: It's About Time and The Remixes It's About Time, the debut studio album by SWV, was released by RCA Records on October 27, 1992 (see 1992 in music). It was certified multi platinum by the RIAA for more than two million copies shipped to store.SWV's first single, "Right Here", was released in the fall of 1992, reaching No. 13 on the R&B charts. Their second single, "I'm So into You", peaked at No. 2 on R&B and reached No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100. The third single, "Weak", reached No. 1 on both the R&B and Hot 100 charts. "Right Here/Human Nature", the fourth single and a remix of their first single, "Right Here", featured samples of Michael Jackson's hit "Human Nature". Pharrell Williams performed a small rap solo on "Right Here (UK Remix)". "Right Here/Human Nature" peaked at No. 1 on R&B and No. 2 on the Hot 100 and it stayed at No. 1 on the Billboard R&B charts for 7 weeks, making it one of the longest-running singles of 1993. It was followed up with the additional Top10 R&B hits, "Downtown" (No. 2), and "You're Always on My Mind" (No. 8). The album peaked at 8 on the US Billboard 200. Following the success of their first album, SWV appeared on the soundtrack for the 1994 film Above the Rim. The single, "Anything", became a top ten R&B hit and reached No. 18 on the Hot 100 in the spring of 1994. That same year, SWV released The Remixes, which went gold by the end of the year. In the summer of 1995, the trio lent vocal harmonies to Blackstreet's Top 40 R&B hit "Tonight's the Night". 1996–1997: New Beginning, Release Some Tension and A Special Christmas New Beginning was the second album from SWV. The first single, "You're the One", became one of their signature songs peaking at number five on the Billboard Hot 100 and topped the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles chart. The second single, "Use Your Heart", saw the debut of the super producers The Neptunes. This song peaked at twenty-two on the Hot 100 and number six on the R&B chart. The last single, "It's All About U", found Taj taking most of the lead as opposed to Coko. The album was certified platinum for shipping 1,000,000 copies in the U.S. alone. Also, in 1995 SWV appeared on the Waiting to Exhale: Original Soundtrack Album, recording the track, "All Night Long". Release Some Tension is SWV's third album. Guest appearances are made by E-40, Puff Daddy, Missy Elliott, Foxy Brown, Lil' Cease, Lil' Kim, Snoop Doggy Dogg, and Redman. The album features hits like "Rain" (which samples Jaco Pastorius's classic "Portrait of Tracy"), "Someone", "Can We" (which was originally included on the soundtrack for the Jamie Foxx film Booty Call), and canceled single "Lose My Cool". "Someone", although featuring one of the biggest producers/artists of the year, Puff Daddy, only reached No. 19 on the Billboard charts which sampled The Notorious B.I.G.'s "Ten Crack Commandment's and Les McCann's "Valantra". "When U Cry" also sampled Tyrone Davis' "In The Mood". The album was certified gold for shipping 500,000 copies in the U.S. alone. RIAA Database A Special Christmas, a holiday album featuring both cover versions and original material, was released in the United States on November 18, 1997, by RCA Records. A Special Christmas would be the penultimate album the trio recorded together before they disbanded in 1998. Coko, the group's lead singer, released her first solo album in 1999. 1998–2010: Hiatus and reuniting of SWV The group split in 1998. The members began leading their own careers. After SWV disbanded, Coko went on to release her first solo album under RCA, titled Hot Coko, released August 1999. The first single, "Sunshine", which was dedicated to her son Jazz, reached the Top 40 position in the R&B charts that summer. However, neither the album nor the singles gathered the same mainstream success as Coko once did with SWV. Meanwhile, Coko was working on a second solo album titled Music Doll in early 2001, but RCA closed the black music division and the project was shelved. Since then, she has concentrated more on her family, and eventually married gospel producer and drummer for Israel and New Breed, Mike "Big Mike" Clemmons, the father of her second son, Jaylon. She currently resides in Virginia Beach, Virginia. In 2001, Coko and her Mother Lady "Clyde" Tibba Gamble did a remake of the song "Tears in Heaven" (originally recorded by Eric Clapton) on the album Rhythm and Spirit: "Love Can Build a Bridge". The album featured other artists such as Jennifer Holliday, Patti Labelle, and Tramaine Hawkins. Clemons sang on the Brent Jones & TP Mobb single "Midnite" in 2002. She also appeared on Youthful Praise's 2003 gospel album Thank You for the Change singing lead on "Up There". Coko's full gospel solo debut, Grateful, was released in the United States on October 31, 2006 and debuted at No. 5 on Billboard's Top Independent albums chart. Grateful includes an all-star cover of The Clark Sisters' "Endow Me" which features R&B singers Faith Evans, Fantasia Barrino and Lil Mo. An alternate version, minus Faith Evans was performed on BET's Celebration of Gospel '07. A special edition of Grateful only available through Wal-Mart includes two bonus tracks "I Wish" and Brent Jones' "Midnite" featuring Coko on lead vocals. Coko was reported to have joined an all-black touring cast performing the critically acclaimed play The Vagina Monologues, along with Sherri Shepherd, Star Jones, Vanessa L. Williams, and others. In June 2008, Coko performed in Japan for the Billboard Live Tour. She sang some of her solo hits "Sunshine", "Clap Your Hands", and the SWV song "Right Here/Human Nature". In 2005, SWV reunited and announced plans to record a new album the following year, which did not materialize. In 2007, the group performed dates with After 7, Bobby Brown, New Edition, and Blackstreet. Also in 2007, Taj appeared in the TV One reality series I Married a Baller which documented her life with husband Eddie George, former NFL player and present Nashville entrepreneur. SWV members Coko and Lelee (who sing the theme song along with Taj) appear in a couple of the show's episodes. On June 24, 2008, during a performance from Alicia Keys at the BET Awards of 2008, SWV made a special appearance with the original line up from En Vogue and TLC. SWV sang "Weak" with Alicia and later performed "Waterfalls" with the two other R&B girl bands. Coko currently resides in Virginia Beach, Lelee in Atlanta and Taj in Nashville.. Taj was a contestant on Survivor: Tocantins, in which she came in fourth place. She was blindsided by her former alliance of J.T. Thomas and Stephen Fishbach. She became the sixth Jury Member. She participated in a 2009 national tour of the Vagina Monologues with an all-black cast, most of whom are also former reality show contestants. SWV appeared on The Mo'Nique Show on February 2, 2010, performing Patti LaBelle's "If Only You Knew". Lelee and Coko provided the lead vocals. 2011–present: I Missed Us, reality show and Still In 2011, SWV signed a record deal with Mass Appeal Entertainment and E1 Entertainment. On June 10, 2011, SWV was featured on the official remix of Chris Brown's remake of their "Right Here/Human Nature" song, "She Ain't You". SWV released "Co-Sign" on December 15, 2011 via iTunes as the first single from their fourth studio album, I Missed Us. VH1 ranked SWV No. 88 on their 100 Greatest: Women in Music list. Billboard named SWV the No. 7 R&B Act and the No. 2 Top Selling/Airplay R&B Female Group of the 1990s. The track listing for SWV's I Missed Us was released on Amazon.com. The album was released on April 17, 2012 via eOne Music and Mass Appeal Entertainment. SWV appeared on the television talk show The Wendy Williams Show on April 17, 2012, to promote the release of I Missed Us and to perform the hit song "Co-Sign". The album then went to No. 1 on the iTunes R&B albums chart. On June 1, 2012, SWV announced that their next single to be released from I Missed Us would be "Love Unconditionally". On June 28, 2012, the song "I'm So into You" from the triple-platinum album It's About Time was ranked at No. 18 on VH1's 40 Greatest R&B Songs of the '90s. On November 4, 2012, SWV performed on Black Girls Rock!, an organization to inspire young black girls, on BET. On July 7, 2013, during the Essence Music Festival, SWV announced that WE tv green-lit a reality series that would detail their lives as a group and individually, professionally and personally. It would also address their 1998 breakup and their subsequent reunion. SWV Reunited premiered on January 16, 2014 with a six-episode season. A twelve-episode second season followed later that August. As promised, the show has documented the trust issues the groupmates have with one another from their acrimonious split and their attempt to rebuild their friendships and their brand. It also showcased their professional endeavors and struggles, including touring and recording a comeback album, trying to get out of a record contract and disputes with their road manager, Cory Taylor. Subplots included Coko's reluctance to record secular music after her foray into gospel, Taj's health issues and Lelee's tumultuous relationship with her daughter. A song that the group was shown recording on SWV Reunited entitled "Ain't No Man" was released to iTunes as a promo single on August 7, 2015. On November 6, 2015, it was officially announced via Coko's official Instagram account that SWV Reunited had been canceled by WE tv. In the same post, she stated that SWV's long-delayed fifth studio album would be entitled Still and is set to be released on February 5, 2016. On December 10, 2015, while making a surprise appearance on the television talk show, The View, Taj announced that "Still" was available for pre-order along with that came a second single entitled "MCE (Man Crush Everyday)". In 2017, they collaborated with Bell Biv DeVoe on the song "Finally" which was released as the second single off their album Three Stripes. They were awarded the "Lady of Soul Award" at the 2017 Soul Train Music Awards. In 2019, SWV announced they had partnered with hip-hop trio Salt-N-Pepa in the creation of a new reality series called 'Ladies Night'. The show premiered on BET on 30 April 2019. As part of their virtual artist battles birthed in 2020, Verzuz hosted a pre-Mother's day event, on May 8, 2021, featuring both SWV and Xscape. Both DJs, AONE and Spinderella, were responsible for music play for both groups. Members Cheryl "Coko" Gamble (born June 13, 1970, The Bronx, New York) is the Soprano and lead singer of the group known for her distinctive high tone and vocal acrobatics. Tamara "Taj" Johnson-George (born April 29, 1971, Brooklyn, New York) is the group's Mezzo-Soprano who has a more jazzy and blues sound. Leanne "Lelee" Lyons (born July 17, 1973, The Bronx, New York) is also the group's Mezzo-Soprano and though being the lightest voice of the three, sings the lower parts. Discography Studio albums It's About Time (1992) New Beginning (1996) Release Some Tension (1997) I Missed Us (2012) Still (2016) Tours Weak (1993 in the UK) Budweiser Superfest 1993 with BBD, Silk, Shai, MC Lyte & Intro in the US) SWV Live (1994 in the UK, South Africa, Canada, US) SWV World Tour (1996 in the USA, Europe, South Africa, Asia, New Zealand) Release Some Tension (1998 in the USA) New Jack Swing Tour (2005 in the US and Canada) Billboard Live Tour (June 16–21, 2008 in Japan) Billboard Live Tour (January 12–13, 2009 in Japan) SWV and Faith Evans (December 5–10, 2010 in the United Kingdom) Fresh Music Festival (May–July 2012, USA) SWV Comeback Tour (2013 In London And USA) Ladies Night Tour (With Salt-N-Pepa) (2018, USA) Cancelled Opening Act 2017: Three Stripes Tour (for Bell Biv DeVoe with En Vogue) 2019: As Long As I Live Tour (for Toni Braxton) Opening acts SWV featured a number of successful female groups as opening acts throughout their various touring engagements. Those groups included such contemporaries as Xscape, Jade, Total, 702, and Destiny's Child. 2026 © COPYRIGHT – ALL RIGHTS RESERVED – WBSS MEDIA LTD
