=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chronology of History | Corporate Information | Toshiba]
Separately, in 1878, Ichisuke Fujioka developed Japan's first arc lamp while studying at the Imperial College of Engineering (now the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Tokyo), under the tutelage of visiting professor William Ayrton. At that time, Japan had to import all of its electric lamps.
URL: https://www.global.toshiba/ww/outline/corporate/history/chronology.html

[Ichisuke Fujioka - Lamp Tech]
Later, he switched on Japan's first arc lamp, at a location in Ginza. In 1884, on a tour of the United States, Ichisuke met Thomas Edison, the "King of Inventors," and reportedly pledged to devote himself to establishing a Japanese electric power industry.
URL: https://www.lamptech.co.uk/Documents/People%20-%20Fujioka%20I.htm

[Arc lamp - Wikipedia]
The carbon arc light, which consists of an arc between carbon electrodes in air, invented by Humphry Davy in the first decade of the 1800s, was the first practical electric light. [1][2] It was widely used starting in the 1870s for street and large building lighting until it was superseded by the incandescent light in the early 20th century. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arc_lamp

[History | Ushio Inc.]
Equipped with 19 water-cooled xenon short-arc lamps and delivered to the National Space Development Agency of Japan (now JAXA). Subsequently participated in the Japanese government's Sunshine Project. The development of high-power xenon short-arc lamps, optical system design technology, and lighting system design technology established Ushio as the world's only manufacturer of light source ...
URL: https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/company/history/

[Arc lamp | Lighting, Illumination, Electric Arc | Britannica]
Sir Humphry Davy constructed the first arc lamp (1807), using a battery of 2,000 cells to create a 100-millimetre (4-inch) arc between two charcoal sticks. When suitable electric generators became available in the late 1870s, the practical use of arc lamps began. The Yablochkov candle, an arc lamp invented by the Russian engineer Paul Yablochkov, was used for street lighting in Paris and other ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/technology/arc-lamp


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chronology of History | Corporate Information | Toshiba] ---
Toshiba‘s early history has two strands: One is Tanaka Seizo-sho (Tanaka Engineering Works), established in 1882, and based on a factory started by Hisashige Tanaka (1799-1881) in 1875. Tanaka was well known from his youth for creations that included mechanical dolls and a perpetual clock. Eventually, under the name Shibaura Seisaku-sho (Shibaura Engineering Works), his company became one of Japan‘s largest manufacturers of heavy electrical apparatus. The other is Hakunetsu-sha & Co., Ltd. established as Japan's first manufacturer of incandescent lamps. Subsequent diversification saw the company evolve as a manufacturer of consumer products. In 1899, it became Tokyo Denki (Tokyo Electric Co.). In 1939, these two companies, leaders in their respective fields, merged to form an integrated electric equipment manufacturer, Tokyo Shibaura Denki (Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd.). The company was soon well known as 'Toshiba,' which became its official name in 1978. In 1873, the Ministry of Engineering, responsible for promoting Japan’s modernization, commissioned Hisashige Tanaka to develop telegraphic equipment. He built a factory in Tokyo in 1875 to accommodate the growing government orders. This was Tanaka Seizo-sho (Tanaka Engineering Works), one of the forerunners of Toshiba. Separately, in 1878, Ichisuke Fujioka developed Japan’s first arc lamp while studying at the Imperial College of Engineering (now the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Tokyo), under the tutelage of visiting professor William Ayrton. At that time, Japan had to import all of its electric lamps. Fujioka established Hakunetsu-sha Co., Ltd. in 1890 to manufacture light bulbs in Japan. The two firms pioneered the development of electrical equipment in Japan. Tanaka Engineering Works created a waterwheel-powered turbine generator and Hakunetsu-sha developed a radio transmitter. In 1921, Tokyo Denki (Tokyo Electric Company; the name was changed from Hakunetsu-sha in 1899) invented the double-coil electric bulb, later recognized as one of the six great inventions in the history of bulb technology. The Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923 caused immense damage, leaving over 100,000 people dead. Tokyo Electric Company lost many employees in the disaster. The company’s president helped to inspire the reconstruction effort, famously remarking that, “A factory without a research institute is like an insect without antennae.” The company actively entered new fields around this time, including medical equipment and radio devices. Produced Japan's first hydroelectric generator for business use (60 kW) Manufactured Japan's first electric fans Produced Japan's first induction motors Tokyo Hakunetsu Dentokyuu Seizo Co., Ltd. established (renamed Tokyo Electric Company in 1899) Tokyo Hakunetsu Dentokyuu Seizo Co., Ltd. established (renamed Tokyo Electric Company in 1899) Shibaura Engineering Works Co., Ltd. Established Shibaura Engineering Works Co., Ltd. Established Manufactured Japan's first X-ray tubes Produced Japan's first radio transmission tubes Invented the "double coil electric bulb," one of the six great inventions in bulb technology Manufactured Japan's first 40-ton DC electric locomotive Started trial manufacture of cathode-ray tubes Manufactured Japan's first radio receivers Manufactured Japan's first electric washing machines and refrigerators Released Japan's first vacuum cleaners In the 1930s, the Japanese government introduced a ban on the production of home appliances to conserve vital supplies of iron and steel for the war effort. Hard times had arrived. As co-members of the Mitsui zaibatsu, led by Mitsui Bank, Shibaura Seisaku-sho (Shibaura Engineering Works; the name was changed from Tanaka Engineering Works in 1893) and Tokyo Electric Company held cross-shareholdings and collaborated in a number of areas. As technology made progress, demand started to grow for home appliances that incorporated the advances made in heavy electrical machinery. The two companies merged in 1939 to form Tokyo Shibaura Denki (Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd.). The merged entity already had ambitions to become one of the world’s leading electrical machinery manufacturers. As the war intensified, the company grew rapidly by filling state orders for radios, vacuum tubes and other military supplies, and also producing generators. However, production capacity was crippled by bombing raids targeting factories. As production recovered in the postwar years, the company focused initially on heavy electrical machinery and then returned to making smaller electrical equipment as reconstruction progressed. New sales subsidiaries were established to strengthen sales capabilities and exports to Southeast Asia began. Manufactured Japan's first fluorescent lamp Absorbed Shibaura Mazda industry Co., Ltd. and Nippon Medical Electric Co., Ltd., expanding home appliance line-up Completed Japan's first radar Absorbed Tokyo Electric Co., Ltd. and Toyo Fire Brick Co., Ltd., expanding line-up of communications equipment Completed Japan's first 1,500A-1,000kilowatt unipolar mercury rectifiers Completed Japan's first gas turbine for electricity generation Under the Law on Elimination of Excessive Concentration of Economic Power, a group of 14 companies, including Tokyo Electric Appliances Co., Ltd., now Toshiba TEC Corp., was separated from Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd. Absorbed Toshiba Rolling Stock Co., Ltd., expanding rolling stock products Completed Japan's first TV broadcast transmitters and TV microwave relay system Manufactured Japan's first 72,500 kVA umbrella type waterwheel generators Absorbed Dengyo-sha Prime Mover Works Ltd. Absorbed Dengyo-sha Prime Mover Works Ltd. Released Japan's first electric rice cookers Japan’s economy was booming by the second half of the 1950s, leading to rapid growth in the heavy electrical machinery, electronics and communications industries. Sales and profits grew quickly as Toshiba created novel products, developed original technologies, expanded existing factories and built new production facilities to supply fast-growing markets. Overseas sales and manufacturing subsidiaries were established to develop the international business. The ratio of overseas sales gradually rose. Developed Japan's first transistorized televisions Developed Japan's first microwave ovens Developed Japan's first color TV Absorbed Ishikawajima-Shibaura Turbine Co., Ltd., expanding line up of turbines Toshiba Science Museum opens Toshiba Science Museum opens Completed Japan's first 12,500kW nuclear power turbine generators Developed transmitters for satellite communications Completed the world's first automatic zip code reader Launched world's first large-capacity static uninterruptable power supply (UPS) Developed a 100,000 gauss superconducting magnet, the most powerful in Japan Developed the world's first color video phone Released the world's first expanded IC color TV Completed Japan's first 700,000kilowatt turbine generator Released the world's first color TV with black stripe-type cathode-ray tubes The economic downturn following the first oil crisis in 1973 led Toshiba to invest more heavily in R&D, the rationale being that profits were the source of corporate vitality while technology was the driving force behind business development. The expanded R&D organization and higher R&D spending led to many new technologies that were the first in the world or the first in Japan. Other initiatives to improve production technology, maintain high quality, save labor and shorten delivery lead-times contributed to significantly higher profits. Celebrated 100th anniversary Celebrated 100th anniversary Completed 1-million kilowatt turbine generator, the largest in Japan Developed world's first microcomputer for automobile engines English official trade name of the company became "Toshiba Corporation" Released the first Japanese word processor Developed Japan's first full-body X-ray CT system Completed world's first optical-disc based data filing systems Released world's first bulb-type fluorescent lamp, "Neo Ball™" (ball-shaped) Developed world's first home-use inverter air conditioner Developed Japan's first Magnetic Resonance Imaging systems (MRI) Commercialized the world's first OCR technology able to read Chinese characters In 1984, the abbreviated form “Toshiba” replaced Tokyo Shibaura Denki as the company’s official name (in English, “Toshiba Corporation” was adopted in 1983). Economic stagnation in Japan during the 1990s led Toshiba to adopt the “concentration and selection” approach to achieve sustained growth. This involved concentrating resources in sectors with growth potential and new businesses, while selectively promoting growth in mature or declining sectors through reform and restructuring. Toshiba focused resources on semiconductors and expanded the PC business. In 1999, Toshiba introduced the in-house company system, creating eight in-house companies. Authority was delegated to these in-house companies to give them greater autonomy and promote faster decision-making. Completed new head office "Toshiba Building" Completed new head office "Toshiba Building" Japanese official trade name of the company became "Toshiba" Japanese official trade name of the company became "Toshiba" Started operation of experimental 50kilowatt fuel cell power plant, the largest in Japan Developed Japan's first transceiver device for HDTV systems Released world's first non-latchup IGBT Developed 1-megabit CMOS DRAM Introduced world's first laptop personal computers Developed superconducting MRI systems Developed 4-megabit dynamic RAM Developed 16-megabit dynamic RAM Introduced notebook personal computer, "Dynabook" Developed world's first large-capacity ultra-supercritical-pressure steam turbine Developed the world's first 4-megabit NAND-type Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read-only Memory (EEPROM) Developed the world's first 16-megabit NAND-type EEPROM Produced prototype product of the world's smallest MOS transistor, with a gate length of 0.04 microns Began commercial production of Microfilter Cathode-ray tubes, the world's first CRT with a filter incorporating the three primary colors Developed high-density optical disc, "DVD"(DVD standardized) Introduced the mini-notebook personal computer, "Libretto" Introduced DVD video players and DVD-ROM drives(Commercialized DVD player in Japan) Completed construction of the world's first advanced boiling water reactor (ABWR) Introduced corporate executive officer system Introduced corporate executive officer system Developed the world's first MPEG 4 graphical data compression and expansion LSI Introduced in-house company system Introduced in-house company system Launched the world's quietest MRI Rapid economic growth in developing countries and sluggish growth in the developed world led to major changes in economic and industrial paradigms in the 21st century. To prevail amid intensifying global competition transcending national borders, Toshiba continued to focus on restructuring businesses to reinforce their earnings base while seeking to transform its overall business structure by targeting growth sectors and emerging businesses. In this period, we strived to become an even stronger global contender by pursuing the “concentration and selection” approach while creating World's First and World's No. 1 products and services that were cost-competitive and captivated customers. Closed Horikawacho Works Closed Horikawacho Works Changed registered headquarters from Kawasaki city Kanagawa, to Minato ward Tokyo Changed registered headquarters from Kawasaki city Kanagawa, to Minato ward Tokyo Announced 01 Action Plan Announced 01 Action Plan Commercialized the world's first HDD & DVD video recorder Developed the world's first 65-nanometer (nm) CMOS process technology for embedded DRAM system LSIs Adopted the "Company with Commitees" system Adopted the "Company with Commitees" system Transferred electric equipment for manufacturing plants business to TMA Electric Corporation (now TMEIC Corporation) Introduced a 2-gigabit (Gb) single-die NAND flash memory Introduced to Japan a high-definition TV upgradable to receive terrestrial digital broadcasts Developed first-generation "Visconti™" image recognition processor (for automobile rear-view monitoring systems) Joined United Nation's Global Compact Joined United Nation's Global Compact Developed an 0.85-inch hard-disk drive, the world's smallest Introduced a 4-gigabit (Gb) single-die NAND flash memory Delivered the world's fastest ultra-high-speed elevator Closed Yanagicho Works Closed Yanagicho Works Developed a quick charge rechargeablle batter that charges to 80% of capacity in one minute Announced details of "Cell Broadband Engine™", co-developed with IBM, Sony Corporation, and Sony Computer Entertainment Inc Developed 8-gigabit NAND flash memory chip, using 70nm process technology, with SanDisk Acquired Westinghouse's nuclear power business Acquired Westinghouse's nuclear power business Commercialized the world's first HD DVD players and recorders Commercialized AV notebook PC with HD DVD drive Commercialized the "SCiB™" the Super Charge ion Battery Commercialized "Aquilion ONE™", 320-slice Dynamic Volume CT system that can capture complete images of the heart or brain in only one rotation Released the "REGZA" ZH7000 series, the world's first LCD TVs with super-resolution imaging technology Raised funds by public offering Raised funds by public offering Acquired HDD business from Fujitsu Ltd. Acquired HDD business from Fujitsu Ltd. Released the "CELL REGZA 55X1", the world's first LCD TV integrating the "Cell Broadband Engine™" Commercialized the world's first 3D LCD TV not requiring dedicated glasses Acquired Landis+Gyr AG and its group of companies Acquired Landis+Gyr AG and its group of companies Closed Hino Works Closed Hino Works LED lighting installed in the Louvre Museum in Paris Toshiba Tec Corporation acquired the retail store solutions business of U.S.-based IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Closed Kitakyushu Works Closed Kitakyushu Works Completed Lazona Kawasaki Toshiba Building Completed Lazona Kawasaki Toshiba Building Commercialized world's first Glasses-free 3D medical display Toshiba Science Museum renewal opening Toshiba Science Museum renewal opening The exposure of inappropriate accounting problems in 2015, and subsequent massive deficits in the overseas nuclear power business, damaged Toshiba's reputation and plunged it into the most serious crisis since its founding. The company responded with transfers of the home appliance, audiovisual, medical equipment, and memory business, transforming its business portfolio from that of a general electrical contractor to focus on the energy, infrastructure, and electronic devices segments. In 2018, Toshiba introduced the “Essence of Toshiba,” which restated its long-standing basic commitment, “Committed to People, Committed to the Future.”. A statement of “Our Purpose” confirmed Toshiba’s reason for being, “We turn on the promise of a new day.” while “Our Values” underlined four guiding principles for action. By integrating knowledge and achievements in manufacturing cultivated over the many years since its founding with information processing, digital, and AI technologies, Toshiba is developing cyber-physical systems (CPS) as a base for further business development. The company’s focus is on advances in crucial areas: the realization of carbon neutrality and resilient infrastructure in the infrastructure services segment; and sustaining social and information infrastructure in the devices segment. Moving forward, Toshiba will provide high value-added products and services, drive forward the digital transformation of business, and promote evolution that secures continued growth. Announced the Toshiba Rebuilding Initiative Announced the Toshiba Rebuilding Initiative Developed Independent Energy Supply System"H2One" More Transferred all shares of Toshiba Medical Systems Corporation (now Canon Medical Systems Corporation.) More (PDF) Transferred all shares of Toshiba Medical Systems Corporation (now Canon Medical Systems Corporation.) More (PDF) Transferred shares of Toshiba Lifestyle Products & Services Corporation to Midea Group Co., Ltd. More Deconsolidated Westinghouse Group from Toshiba Group More (PDF) Deconsolidated Westinghouse Group from Toshiba Group More (PDF) Sold all shares of Landis+Gyr in an IPO More (PDF) Sold all shares of Landis+Gyr in an IPO More (PDF) Opened "Integrated Hydrogen Application Center" at Fuchu Complex More Split off in-house companies Split off in-house companies Demoted to the Second Section of the Tokyo and Nagoya Stock Exchanges Closed Ome Complex More Closed Ome Complex More Announced the Toshiba Next Plan More Announced the Toshiba Next Plan More Transferred shares of Toshiba Visual Solutions Corporation (now TVS REGZA Corporation) to Hisense Group More (PDF) Transferred all shares of Formerly Toshiba Memory Corporation (now KIOXIA Corporation) More (PDF) Transferred all shares of Formerly Toshiba Memory Corporation (now KIOXIA Corporation) More (PDF) Transferred shares of Toshiba Client Solutions Co., Ltd. (now Dyna book Inc. ) to Sharp Corporation More (PDF) Developed a protocol that extended quantum key distribution(QKD) to over 500km, the world's longest distance; first to achieve a real-world QKD rate of over 10Mbps Developed microRNA technology that requires only a small blood sample to detect 13 types of cancer with 99% accuracy More Developed an epoch-making algorithm (called a simulated bifurcation machine) that enables the world's fastest and largest combinatorial optimization More Developed high-precision solar power generation prediction technology using Toshiba's unique AI algorithm Developed a tandem solar cell using transparent cuprous oxide (Cu2O) with a power generation efficiency surpassing that of pure silicon solar cells More Reinstated to the First Section of the Tokyo and Nagoya Stock Exchanges More (PDF) Closed Fukaya Complex Closed Fukaya Complex Transferred shares of Toshiba Carrier Corporation More (PDF) Developed a Walk-through detector uses millimeter-wave radar to detect concealed weapons More


--- [Ichisuke Fujioka - Lamp Tech] ---
| | | This article was written by fellow lamp engineer and collector Edward J. Covington, and originally appeared on his own website of biographical sketches of persons involved in the lamp industry. Following his passing in February 2017, and with kind permission of his family, Ed's words have been preserved here in the hope of maintaining access to his writings for the benefit of subsequent generations. | Ichisuke Fujioka | Biography The subject of this writing is credited with starting the lighting, as well as the electrical, industry in Japan. In the year 1884 Ichisuke Fujioka (1857 - 1918) visited the United States in order to become acquainted with the emerging lighting and electrical industry. Quoting from a Toshiba web site 3: "Toshiba's other founder, Ichisuke Fujioka, was born in 1857, the eldest son of a samurai. At eighteen he began studying under Professor William Ayrton, an expert in telegraphy and electric lighting. Later, he switched on Japan's first arc lamp, at a location in Ginza. In 1884, on a tour of the United States, Ichisuke met Thomas Edison, the “King of Inventors,” and reportedly pledged to devote himself to establishing a Japanese electric power industry. After returning home, Ichisuke started to manufacture prototypes of incandescent light bulbs, and, he set up his own firm, Hakunetsu-sha, in 1890. "After intense effort, he succeeded in developing an economical, durable light bulb, and went on to lay the foundations for a domestic electric power industry that could hold its own against the Europeans and Americans. He was also involved in constructing an electric railway and the introduction of electric power to the nation. Ichisuke was true to his word to Edison: he took Japan into the age of electricity." The following information was extracted from another web site 4: "It was with Shoichi Miyoshi that Fujioka established the manufacturing concern of Hakunetsu-sha & Company, Limited, in Kyobashi, Japan. In that plant the first electric light bulbs were manufactured in Japan. "The first electric light used for illumination purposes in Japan was lit on March 25, 1878. It was a Duboscq arc lamp, switched on at a banquet held in celebration of the opening of the central office of Tokyo Central Telegraph Station (Now, Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications). "The engineers of this event were Professor W. E. Aryton of Imperial College of Engineering (Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo University), and his colleague Mr. Ichisuke Fujioka who would later go on to establish Hakunetu-Sha & Co. Ltd. "The very first lighting of an incandescent light took place on June 25, 1884 at the commencement ceremony of the railroad line running from Ueno to Takasaki. "Twenty four incandescent lights with one arc light placed in the center were lit to welcome the Japanese Emperor and Empress, who made an appearance. Professor Ichisuke Fujioka is the person credited for the development of the incandescent bulb in Japan. "In order to develop an incandescent bulb domestically, he was appointed Chief Engineer at Tokyo Electric Illumination Company (Now, Tokyo Electric Power Company). On April 1, 1890, Professor Fujioka in cooperation with Masakazu Miyoshi, one of the most successful electric appliance manufacturers at that time, established Hakunetu-Sha & Co.Ltd. in Tokyo. The result of this merger was the official production of incandescent bulbs in Japan. "Hakunetu-Sha is now called TOSHIBA LIGHTING & TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION which today is a leader in lighting technology." | Shown above is the lamp developed in Japan in the 1890s. | References & Bibliography - "Ichisuke Fujioka" Obituary, Transactions of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan (JIEE), Vol.57, 1919. - Internet email message from Shigesuke Fujioka, grandson of Ichisuke Fujioka, 27 Feb 2000, to the writer. - http://www.toshiba.co.jp/spirit/en/ichisuke/index.html - Toshiba Lighting & Technology Corporation - About Us | | | | |


--- [Arc lamp - Wikipedia] ---
An arc lamp or arc light is a lamp that produces light by an electric arc (also called a voltaic arc).
The carbon arc light,  which consists of an arc between carbon electrodes in air, invented by Humphry Davy in the first decade of the 1800s, was the first practical electric light.  It was widely used starting in the 1870s for street and large building lighting until it was superseded by the incandescent light in the early 20th century.  It continued in use in more specialized applications where a high intensity point light source was needed, such as searchlights and movie projectors until after World War II.  The carbon arc lamp is now obsolete for most of these purposes, but it is still used as a source of high intensity ultraviolet light.
The term is now used for gas discharge lamps, which produce light by an arc between metal electrodes through a gas in a glass bulb.  The common fluorescent lamp is a low-pressure mercury arc lamp. The xenon arc lamp, which produces a high intensity white light, is now used in many of the applications which formerly used the carbon arc, such as movie projectors and searchlights.


--- [History | Ushio Inc.] ---
History Founding of Ushio, Inc. Ushio’s 268 employees (average age: 23) were believers in the “possibilities of light.” Ushio Inc., established Xenon long-arc lamps for illumination The high illumination performance of these compact lamps has been widely acclaimed both at home and abroad. Xenon short-arc lamps for Illumination World’s first large outdoor advertising lighting using xenon short-arc lamps (Keio Department Store rooftop) Halogen lamps Developed Japan’s first halogen lamp Horizontal operation type Xenon short-arc lamp for cinema projector Light efficiency was increased by changing lamp orientation from vertical to horizontal. Since then, horizontal operation lamps has become mainstream. (Photo: Holizontally operated Xenon Projector at that time. Photo courtesy of Eiki Kogyo.) Solar simulator Delivered the first Ushio solar simulator to the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, University of Tokyo. Ushio America, Inc., established (as a lamp sales base) in the United States Halogen lamps for plain-paper copiers Halogen lamps for copiers (for document scanning and toner fixing) Yokohama Division established in Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture “Unimask 101” IC lithography equipment At a time when the contact method was mainstream, became first in the world to put the projection method to practical use. The origin of Ushio’s current UX Series lithography equipment. 30kW Water-cooled xenon short-arc lamp for solar simulators World’s largest output at the time Halogen fog lamps for use in automobiles PICK UP Founding of Ushio, Inc. At the time of its founding, Jiro Ushio was 33 years old, and the average age of his employees was 23. At a time when light’s only use was for illumination, Ushio focused on applying light not only as illumination, but as a form of energy, and has since introduced light for many different applications as a “light specialist.” Japan’s period of rapid economic growth Ushio’s breakthrough in optical technology accompanied rapid changes in technology and culture. Listed on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Harima Division, established in Himeji, Hyogo Prefecture Search light (Xenon short-arc lamp) Installed in the Tower of the Sun, symbol of Expo '70, Osaka Moved head office to Otemachi business district in Tokyo Laser-pumping high-power xenon flash lamps for nuclear fusion experiment Standard halogen light bulb Recognized at the CIE (International Commission on Illumination) convention. Ushio light becomes a global standard “U-PANAPLEX” multi-digit electronic display tube Optical information display systems, the forerunner of devices such as today’s liquid crystal displays “SPOT CURE” Spot UV irradiation units Low concentration measuring system / Critical dimension measuring system Halogen fish light "Squid Light" Five times longer life, twice as bright, and half the size of conventional products Ushio’s fishing lights spread to other asian countries Listed on the Second Section of the Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE) “USP-2” UV water sterilization system UV water sterilization equipment with built-in low-pressure UV lamps “UNICURE” UV instant curing system Large-scale solar simulator for testing satellites Equipped with 19 water-cooled xenon short-arc lamps and delivered to the National Space Development Agency of Japan (now JAXA). Subsequently participated in the Japanese government’s Sunshine Project. Deep UV lamp for VLSI photolithography Reduces wafer baking time from several minutes to just a few tens of seconds. PICK UP Light source unit of large-scale solar simulator used for testing satellites Equipped with 19 water-cooled xenon short-arc lamps and delivered to the National Space Development Agency of Japan (now JAXA). Subsequently participated in the Japanese government’s Sunshine Project. The development of high-power xenon short-arc lamps, optical system design technology, and lighting system design technology established Ushio as the world’s only manufacturer of light source units for solar simulators. In addition, the various technologies developed during project have become the basis for the company’s current optical-related equipment. Ushio was one of the first in the industry to expand overseas. “Ushio light” has crossed borders and spread throughout the world. Listed on the first sections of the TSE and OSE (delisted from OSE in January 2010) U-Tech, Inc., established (as a lamp and industrial machine sales base; currently Ushio Lighting, Inc.) Metal halide green fish light "Green Beam" Halogen heater for semiconductor production Developed for epitaxial crystal film formation. Highly regarded for clean, uniform, and quick energy control that is only possible with light. “UNILIZER” High-powered UV sterilization system Arc image furnace Hyogo Ushio Electric, Inc., established (as a lamp production and a sales base; currently Ushio Lighting, Inc.) “PHOTOLEX” optical cleaning system The world’s first photo-cleaning system that removes (dry cleans) minute organic compounds (dirt) from the surface of semiconductors and quartz crystals at the molecular level using ultraviolet light from low-pressure UV lamps. This technology later became the basis for precision photo-cleaning equipment that uses excimer lamps. UV flash lamp for semiconductor exposure Compact fluorescent lamps for LCD backlighting Compact fluorescent lamp for image reader Metal halide white fishing light “Handy-Cure” ultraviolet curing system Compact, handy-type UV curing units for UV inks and paints. Hand-held irradiation makes it possible to irradiate multifaceted three-dimensional objects from all directions. Ushio Europe B.V., established (as a lamp sales base) in Netherland “Unihard” ultraviolet photoresist hardening system A resist curing system for etching pretreatment, Ushio’s first light system built into a VLSI production line. The powerful deep ultraviolet (DUV) light acts quickly, preventing deformation and resist dripping to preserve high precision of fine patterns. U-Tech, Inc., renamed Ushio U-Tech, Inc. Ushio Hong Kong Ltd., established (as an optical equipment production and a sales base) in Hong Kong “UNICURE-COLD” Low-temperature UV instant curing system “New Spot-Cure” Spot UV irradiation units A new model developed in 1972 with improved light concentration. Contributes to improved efficiency in the assembly of precision equipment by reducing the time required for precision bonding of electronic and optical components from minutes to seconds. “Unimeter” accumulated UV meter Sapphire lamps Ushio Oregon, Inc., established (as a lamp production and a sales base; currently Ushio America, Inc.) in the United States Ushio Taiwan, Inc., established (as a lamp production and a sales base) in Taiwan “Multilight” Multi-purpose exposure unit A multi-purpose light source unit using a 250 W super high-pressure UV lamp. Equipped with a high-performance integrator (optical unit that provides uniformity of irradiation) to achieve a high degree of irradiation uniformity and center parallelism. This became the main engine of optical devices, such as lithography equipment, that were developed later. Halogen lamp with infrared reflector film for illumination JVC PLUS COOL Tsukuba Ushio Electric, Inc., established in Tsukuba, Ibaraki Prefecture Gotemba Division, established in Gotemba, Shizuoka Prefecture Ushio France S.A.R.L., established prefecture (as a lamp sales base) in France TAB exposure system System for baking high-definition circuit patterns on to film substrates. Substrates in sheet form enable smaller, thinner, lighter, and more flexible notebook computers, mobile phones, and LCDs. “Sunny” Salon tanning equipment “Bell Flow” Photocatalytic air cleaner Fully automated squid fishing apparatus “Black Light” Far Infrared halogen heater lamp The surface of halogen lamps is coated with a special ceramic to provide a light source for heaters with an output peak of 3 to 5 micrometers of far-infrared radiation. Expanding into the fields of heating, drying, and cooking, as well as food processing and health care. Plasma polymerization film replica production system Singapore Liaison Office upgraded to subsidiary as Ushio Singapore Pte. Ltd. (as a lamp sales base ; currently Ushio Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.) Compact Xenon searchlight Wafer peripheral exposure system Ultraviolet light removes unnecessary resist from the wafer periphery with high precision and sharpness. Significantly improves productivity and process cleanliness of semiconductor manufacture. Particle inspection unit PICK UP Light Without Borders When the 1985 Plaza Accord brought about appreciation of the yen and depreciation of the U.S. dollar, Ushio immediately began internationalizing its production, launching new factories one after another in Hong Kong, the U.S., the Netherlands, and Taiwan. Ushio’s decision to expand overseas at that time was one of the earliest in the industry. Utilization of light energy gained speed, contributing greatly to technological innovation in the field of electronics. Ushio Marine, Inc., established (as a fishery equipment sales base; currently Ushio Lighting, Inc.) BLV Licht- und Vakuumtechnik GmbH of Germany, acquired (as a lamp production and a sales base ; currently Ushio Germany GmbH) Heating units for cooking Metal halide lamp for illumination (single-ended type) Lighting for stores that need better illumination, such as department stores and large shopping centers that are increasingly moving upscale. “U-BEAM” Compact Xenon searchlight for maritime applications Nihon Denshi Gijutsu Co., Ltd., acquired (as an industrial electronic equipment production and a sales base ; liquidated in March, 2017) “SUV Lamp” Super-high pressure lamp for semiconductor lithography equipment (i-line lamp) As integration advanced from 4 megabits to 16 megabits, and then to development of next-generation semiconductors (64 megabits), ultraviolet light of shorter wavelength was required for finer circuitry baking. The SUV lamp has a narrow bandwidth peak at the i-line (365 nanometers), enabling circuit baking at four times the scale of a conventional IC of the same size. Wafer peripheral step exposure unit Added a step function to the wafer periphery exposure system developed in 1989. Following the chip shape, removes unnecessary resist, a source of waste, from the wafer periphery, enabling waste-free use of the wafer. The projector division of Christie Electric Corp. of the United States, acquired and Christie, Inc., established (as a projector-related equipment production and a sales base; currently Christie Digital Systems USA, Inc.) Ushio Deutschland GmbH, established (as a lamp sales base; currently Ushio Germany GmbH) in Germany Dielectric barrier discharge excimer lamps World-first productization. Initially intended for photo-cleaning applications in the LCD industry. Large-area projection lithography equipment Developed for micro-machining. First attained an irradiation area of 200 mm square (compared to 70 mm square previously) and a depth of focus of 100 microns (compared to several tens of microns previously) by using ultra high-pressure UV lamps and projection lithography technology. Optical line width measurement system Dichroic halogen lamp Super line-cut mirrors with net patterns are used to achieve 1.5 times the light-collecting power of conventional models, energy savings of approximately 20%, and more compact size. Excimer vacuum ultraviolet (VUV)/O3 cleaning system This is a fine-cleaning system that uses light to remove stains containing organic compounds, which present a difficult problem for the high-tech field. Compared to wet cleaning with water or chemicals, or dry cleaning with ultrasonic waves or ultraviolet rays (low-pressure UV lamps), it is ten times faster and cleaner, consumes 1/3 the power, and allows lower processing temperatures. 3-dimensional shape production system Ushio International B.V., established (a holding company) in Netherland “UNIMARK” marking system Ushio Phillipinnes, Inc., established (as a lamp production and a sales base) in the Philippines Ushio Korea Inc., established (as a lamp sales base) in the Republic of Korea Halogen lamps for use in outer space Developed for calibration of Ocean Color and Temperature Scanners (OCTS) and Advanced Visible and Near Infrared Radiometers (AVNIR). Blue halogen lamps for automobiles UV lamp for liquid crystal lithography 8kW super high-pressure UV lamps developed for LCD color filter lithography. Accommodates increasingly larger substrates. Lamps are also becoming more powerful. Metal halide lamps for LCD projectors Arc gap accuracy of 0.1mm, 250W. Forerunner of the NSH lamp, a super high-pressure UV lamp for later-generation projectors Ushio U.K., Ltd., established (as a lamp sales base) in the United Kingdom Ushio Research Institute of Technology Inc., established (as an R&D center on light sources and optical devices; liquidated in February 2008) “Spectro-Radiometer” spectral emission intensity meter External electrode rare gas fluorescent lamps Light sources for scanning equipment. Achieves high stability with more than twice the illumination of conventional compact fluorescent lamps, contributing greatly to the higher speed of next-generation digital copiers. “NSH Lamps” for data projectors Supports the larger screens and improved image quality of DLP (Digital Light Processing) projectors. High-brightness light source developed based on super high-pressure UV lamps Taiwan Ushio Lighting, Inc., established (as a lamp production and a sales base ; liquidated in March 2015) in Taiwan The imaging equipment division of Electrohome Ltd. of Canada, acquired and Christie Systems, Inc. (as a holding company; currently Christie Digital Systems, Inc.), Christie Digital Systems, Inc. (as a digital imaging equipment production and a sales base; currently Christie Digital Systems Canada Inc.), and Christie Digital Systems USA, Inc. (as a digital imaging equipment sales base), established “UX5” Step & repeat projection lithography equipment for printed circuit boards High resolution, deep depth of focus projection lens technology with high precision image stacking through new alignment technology that eliminates misalignment, enabling shot-by-shot repeated exposure of large-area substrates. Digital cinema projectors The first U.S. film to be screened using a digital projector was “Star Wars.” Digital projectors were first used in Japan in 2001. PICK UP Light that supports technological innovation in the field of electronics The 1990s saw a major technological revolution with the move from analog to digital. In the midst of growing demand for “smaller, thinner, more minute” technology, Ushio’s “light” as a powerful, highly efficient, and clean form of energy has removed many road blocks to technological innovation. Light as illumination is diversifying and growing in scale. “Ushio light” has been constantly involved in the evolution of visual imaging, including cinema. Ushio Marine, Inc. merged into Ushio U-Tech, Inc. Gigaphoton, Inc., established (as a base for development, production, and sales of excimer laser for lithography) Restructured Christie Group (Christie Digital Systems, Inc., Christie Digital Systems USA, Inc. and Christie Digital Systems Canada, Inc.) Ushio U-Tech (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. established (as an industrial machinery sales base; later renamed Ushio Lighting (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.; liquidated in March 2010) in Hong Kong Ceramic xenon lamps(Xenon lamps with internal mirror) Developed for endoscopes and microscopes. Flash lamp annealing Instantaneous heating of just the surface layer in 1/1,000 of a second. Bonding of micro transistors to LSI substrates. “UX-7” Step & repeat projection lithography equipment Event Audio Visual Group Inc. of the United States, acquired (as a base for imaging equipment rental business) Ushio Shanghai, Inc., established (as a lamp sales base) in the People's Republic of China TAB inspection system Circuit pattern inspection system for flexible printed circuit boards (TAB). The pattern on the illuminated substrate is captured by a CCD camera and evaluated by image processing. Ushio (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., established (as a lamp production and a sales base) in the People's Republic of China Ushio Lighting, Inc. and Ushio U-Tech, Inc. merged with Ushio U-Tech, Inc. being the surviving company with the name Ushio Lighting, Inc. Ushio Oregon, Inc. merged into Ushio America, Inc. Christie Digital Systems (Shanghai), Ltd., established (as a digital projector sales base) in the People's Republic of China. Spray photoresist coater Continuous, uniform application of resist to three-dimensional surfaces with irregularities as small as 200 micrometers "ODF" Ultraviolet irradiation system for one-drop-fill LCD panel bonding Bonding equipment that uses light By replacing the conventional “injection method” with a “drop method,” the process time for bonding glass substrates and sealing liquid crystal is reduced from 10 hours to a few minutes. Established Hyogo Ushio Lighting Co. (for lamp manufacturing, liquidated November 2012). Acquired equity interest (50%) in XTREME Technologies GmbH (development, manufacture and sale of EUV light source equipment ; liquidated December 2017) in Germany. Natrium S.A. of Poland, acquired (as a lamp production and a sales base;currently Ushio Poland Sp. zo. o.) Foreign substance inspection system for masks/pellicles Quickly and automatically inspects for foreign matter adhering to the top surface of the reticle and the bottom surface of the pellicle of the reticle of lithography equipment. “TheraBeam® VR630” infrared ray remedy vessel Equipped with special metal halide lamps with energy peaks at the 630 nm and 670 nm wavelengths of the infrared region. Vista Controls System, Corp. of the United States, acquired (as a base for production and sales of visual information processing systems ; integrated to Christie Digital Systems USA in January 2015) Epitex, Inc., acquired (as an LED production and a sales base;currently Ushio Inc.) Ushio Shenzhen, Inc., established (as a lamp sales base) in the People’s Republic of China A 100% equity in XTREME technologies GmbH, acquired to make it a wholly owned subsidiary “TheraBeam® UV308” Excimer UV phototherapy device Ultraviolet phototherapy device that uses excimer light for irradiation of affected areas at the 308 nm ultraviolet wavelength. This wavelength is more efficacious than other wavelengths for treatment of conditions such as psoriasis, vitiligo, and atopic dermatitis. The world’s first ultraviolet phototherapy device equipped with an excimer filter, which reduces the risk to healthy skin and enables effective and safe irradiation treatment of affected areas. Multi-filament heater Halogen heater lamps with temperature control, developed for semiconductor and solar cell manufacturing applications. These make it possible to deliver optimal heat to required locations, for example, by using independent filaments to raise the temperature in peripheral areas where the tendency for temperature to drop is greater. Necsel Intellectual Property, Inc. of the United States, acquired (as a base for development, production, and sales of semiconductor laser;currently Ushio America, Inc.) Luminetx Corporation of the United States acquired (Christie Medical Holdings, Inc., manufacture and sale of medical devices; sold in June 2019). “SPL-1” LED Spot UV Irradiation Unit First use of a LED light source in “Spot Cure,” series that has been in use since 1972. In 2011, launched “Spot Cure SPL-2”, a fiber light source LED spot UV irradiation unit. PICK UP Changing Lives by Light and Image Ushio light has supported the cinema industry since the film era, and has continued in this role in the 21st century, supporting its digitalization and the evolution from 2D to 3D, and even 4D. This had contributed to the proliferation of multiplex cinemas and expansion of the cinema market. “Ushio light” also supports the electronic devices that we use in our daily lives. Christie Digital Systems（Shenzhen）Co., Ltd., established (as a base for production of digital imaging equipment) in China A 100% equity in Necsel Intellectual Property, Inc. of the United States, acquired to make it a wholly owned subsidiary (as a base for development, production, and sales of semiconductor lasers;currently Ushio America, Inc.) “UX4 Series” Full-field projection lithography equipment Equipped with a projection lens that enables batch processing of large areas. UX4-LEDs for high irradiance LED manufacturing and UX4-ECO for power semiconductor manufacturing were announced in 2010, and UX4-3Di for 3D LSI device manufacturing and UX4-MEMS for MEMS manufacturing were announced in 2011. “UX5 Series” Large field stepper for manufacturing semiconductor packaging substrate The UX-5 Series, developed in 1999, was upgraded to meet performance requirements of the current generation. Furthermore, a new modularized design for key functions such as lenses, alignment, light sources, and transport allows for future upgrades and customization on a function-by-function basis. Transferred all of its shares of Gigaphoton Inc. to Komatsu Ltd. LED modules for office automation equipment With only one or two LED chips per module, brightness is equivalent to that of conventional rare gas fluorescent lamps. Furthermore, power consumption is reduced by 75%. “UV-LED Module” UV light source for inkjet printers that use UV-hardening ink Compatible with UV inkjet printers, which apply minute quantities of ink directly and without contact, and dry the ink quickly with ultraviolet light. In addition to preventing power loss and productivity loss due to instantaneous ON-OFF control, it provides the long life characteristic of LEDs and is environmentally friendly as it uses no mercury. “UIT-θ365” Ultra-thin UV irradiance meter The world’s thinnest, 4.9 mm thin-type ultraviolet illuminance meter. Wireless design eliminates the need for complicated wiring and enables accurate UV irradiance measurement and control under the same conditions as during actual manufacturing, regardless of irradiation conditions such as height limitations and irradiation distance, thereby improving quality of various UV processes. Christie Digital Systems South America Ltda., established (as a base for sales of digital imaging equipment) in Brazil Additional shares of Adtec Engineering Ltd.,acquired by TOB to make it a consolidated company. Changed the corporate name of Ushio Singapore Pte. Ltd. to Ushio Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Ushio America Holdings, Inc., established (as a holding company in North America) Ushio (Shaoguan) Co., Ltd., established (as a production of lamp) in China VR Solutions Pty. Ltd. and its subsidiary VR Solutions India Pvt. Ltd., acquired (currently called Christie Digital Systems Australia Pty. Ltd. and Christie Digital Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd., a seller of digital imaging equipment) Large-Field stepper “UX7-3Di” series for 2.5D/3D packaging Developed in 2002, the UX-7 Series was upgraded for use in cutting-edge semiconductor device manufacturing for 2.5D packaging applications. Large aperture projection exposure lens with large 78 x 66 mm shot size for 200 mm and 300 mm wafers provides high throughput and significantly lower interposer manufacturing costs for large substrates. “Min-Excimer” Excimer light Irradiation unit A5-size excimer irradiation unit that enables desktop excimer light experiments. Enables simple and flexible excimer light experiments such as hydrophilization and surface modification. Ushio Asia Pacific (Thailand) Ltd., established (as a lamp sales base) in Thailand Christie Digital Systems Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., established (as a digital projector sales base) in Mexico “Point Reader®” Blood analyzer Japan’s first quantitative analysis of serum ferritin by immunochromatography. Ushio also sells specialized reagents. “TheraBeam® SuperOsseo” UV curing device for dental implants Arsenal Media Inc. of Canada, acquired (as a base for planning and creating digital contents) Ushio Opto Semiconductors, Inc., established (as a base for production and sales of LED and semiconductor laser diode;currently Ushio Inc.) Additional equity in ADTEC Engineering Co., Ltd.,acquired to make it a wholly owned subsidiary Coolux GmbH of Germany, acquired (as a base for production and sales of digital contents control equipment) Maxray Corporation, acquired (as a base for lighting fixture sales ; currently Ushio Lighting Co., Ltd. ) Changed company name of Epitex Inc. to Ushio Epitex Inc. Allure Global Solutions, Inc. of the United States, acquired (as a base for a provider of digital signage-related solutions; sold in November 2018) Spot UV irradiation units "Spot Cure® SP-11" With three times the illuminance of past models, reduces UV bonding process time to 1/3. Personal absorbance spectrophotometer Picoscope® Compact personal absorbance spectrophotometer that can be linked to a Smartphones or tablet PC to detect and measure concentration of substances such as proteins, heavy metals, environmental hormones, and DNA. American Green Technology, Inc., acquired (as a base for lamp sales; deconsolidated in December 2018) PD-LD, Inc. of the U.S., acquired (as a base for a developer, manufacturer, and seller of solid-state lasers ; currently Necsel Intellectual Property) Moved head office to Marunouchi district in Tokyo Sunsorit, Inc. acquired (as a base for sales of medical skin care products) Ushio Opto Semiconductor Co., Ltd. and Ushio Epitex Co., Ltd. merged with Ushio Opto Semiconductor Co., Ltd. as the surviving company. Ushio Medical Technology (Suzhou) Co.,Ltd. established (as R&D, production, and sales of advanced medical devices, their core components, and peripheral devices.) in China UV phototherapy device "TheraBeam® UV308 mini" Handheld version of the TheraBeam UV308, an ultraviolet phototherapy device that uses irradiation with 308 nm excimer light to treat areas affected with conditions such as psoriasis, vitiligo, and atopic dermatitis. Sheet beam laser World’s first application of laser diode sheet beam illumination for visualization lighting during fluid analysis Ushio Enterteinment Holdings, Inc., established (as a base of management business of entertainment-related group companies in Japan.) High power red laser diode for projector High output operation and long life, even at high temperatures, are realized by optimization of the active layer structure and luminescence area, together with a package that provides high heat dissipation. "SWIR LED" high power short wavelength infrared LED Succeeded in increasing the output of Short Wavelength Infrared (SWIR, or near-infrared) LEDs by approximately 1.5 times compared to conventional LEDs. Merged Maxray Corporation into Ushio Lighting Co., Ltd. UV-LED drying equipment for sheet-fed offset presses New lineup of UV-LED drying equipment for printing, the UniJet UV-LED Series (UniJet) Maintains high illumination and high integrated light intensity even at long irradiation distances. TheraBeam® UV308 Slim New model in the “TheraBeam® UV308” series (launched in 2008) Excimer irradiation unit for semicondutor production 5 times greater illumination than conventional models, with a 60% reduction in size by volume UV-LED drying equipment for rotary presses Wood lamp (black light illuminator) “TheraBeam® Woody” EUV light source for EUV lithography mask inspection for mass production processes “Actinic” (at-wavelength) EUV lithography mask inspection using high-brightness EUV light is now possible to meet requirements of mass production processes for manufacture of next-generation semiconductors. 659nm high power red laser diode Achieves the world’s highest CW light output of 1.2W. Enables miniaturization of equipment such as phototherapy devices. ”SP-LED-3” spot UV-LED irradiation unit Achieves the industry’s greatest high-intensity irradiance. PICK UP Ushio light’s support for smart devices Smart devices (Smartphones and tablets) are a regular feature of our daily lives. Ushio’s light sources and optical equipment are indispensable to the manufacturing processes of such devices. In particular, the advent of Ushio’s photo-alignment tools, which neatly aligns liquid crystal molecules, has improved the performance of high-definition displays that are thin, beautiful, and (thanks to low power consumption) ecologically friendly. Our corporate goal is to provide light-based solutions fulfilling the keywords of “convenience and comfort,” “excitement and sharing,” and “safety and security.” Ushio Opto Semiconductors, Inc. merged with Ushio, Inc. 660 nm band single mode laser Achieved the world’s highest CW light output of 200 mW. Broad Wavelength Irradiation System “SPIR” Reduces curing time required for bonding electronic components by irradiating with a wide range of wavelengths (300 to 1000 nm) from infrared (IR) to ultraviolet (UV) rays. Care222 UV light source module for disinfection and virus inactivation applications The UV light source module that is the core of “Care222” disinfection and virus inactivation technology that can be used in inhabited environments. Excimer lamp combined with Ushio’s proprietary optical filter block wavelengths that can be potentially harmful to human skin and eyes. Compact excimer irradiation system Used for pretreatment of bonding and sealing processes in automotive parts and Smartphone manufacturing processes. Can be installed as-is on existing production lines without special ancillary equipment to solve component cleaning and bonding process issues at minimal cost, assuring improved quality and yields. Merged Ushio Deutschland GmbH and KreisX GmbH in Germany into BLV Licht- und Vakuumtechnik GmbH. Changed company name from BLV Licht- und Vakuumtechnik GmbH to Ushio Germany GmbH. 850 nm infrared LED package Realizes both narrow-angle irradiation and the world’s highest power output (19W). Enables downsizing of irradiation equipment and cost reduction. UV irradiation unit for disinfection and virus inactivation "Care222 i series" UV irradiation unit equipped with disinfection and virus inactivation technology, Care222 can be used in inhabited environments. It can be installed like ordinary lighting fixtures, enabling UV irradiation of air and environmental surfaces in inhabited environments, which could not be realized with conventional UV irradiation equipment. TheraBeam UVA1 Japan’s first UV light that can reach lesions in the previously unreachable “deep dermis” using a 365 nm LED of our own manufacture. Atmospheric-pressure plasma irradiation system Air cooling system enables significant size reduction UV irradiation unit for disinfection and virus inactivation “Care222 i series Moving Light Type i-MVT” The moving light type enables disinfection of multiple locations with a single unit. 639 nm, 200 mW single mode laser diode Care222 wide light distribution type UV light source module for disinfection and virus inactivation Wide light distribution type light source module that can irradiate a wider range with a single unit Transition from the 1st Section to the Prime Market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange due to market restructuring of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. UV irradiation unit for disinfection and virus inactivation “Care222 i series flood type i-FT” Equipped with a wide light distribution type light source module, it can irradiate a wider range with a single unit. Ultraviolet phototherapy device for dermatological problems “TheraBeam UV308 mini LED” Realized long-life, energy-efficient and sustainable “UVB-LED phototherapy” High power blue laser module For heating and processing of metals such as gold and copper in a variety of manufacturing processes, achieved significant cost reduction despite its high power with a fiber output of 25W. ADTEC Engineering Co., Ltd. acquired shares of YANAKA Holdings Co., Ltd. Necsel Intellectual Property, Inc. acquired Blue Sky Research Inc. "UX-58112SC", a new product of the large field stepper UX-5 Series for cutting-edge IC package substrates Achieved the world-class high resolution of L/S=3μm as a large-field stepper for cutting-edge IC package substrates and substantially improved the overlay accuracy while maintaining the previous 250x250mm exposure field size and footprint. Strategic partnership with Applied Materials, Inc. UV LED light source "UniCube M Series" Unique four-way coupling technology achieves high intensity, which in turn enables uniform curing of the entire area. "UniJet S series" , a new series of UV-LED for printing The accumulated intensity is significantly increased, while Ushio's unique cooling system enables simultaneous downsizing. Atmospheric pressure plasma irradiation unit “Lamina 5” Ushio's unique electrode structure enables a significant downsizing of the irradiation unit


--- [Arc lamp | Lighting, Illumination, Electric Arc | Britannica] ---
arc lamp arc lamp, device for producing light by maintaining an electric arc across a gap between two conductors; light comes from the heated ends of the conductors (usually carbon rods) as well as from the arc itself. Arc lamps are used in applications requiring great brightness, as in searchlights, large film projectors, and floodlights. The term arc lamp is usually restricted to lamps with an air gap between consumable carbon electrodes, but fluorescent and other electric discharge lamps generate light from arcs in gas-filled tubes. Some ultraviolet lamps are of the arc type. - Related Topics: - Yablochkov candle Sir Humphry Davy constructed the first arc lamp (1807), using a battery of 2,000 cells to create a 100-millimetre (4-inch) arc between two charcoal sticks. When suitable electric generators became available in the late 1870s, the practical use of arc lamps began. The Yablochkov candle, an arc lamp invented by the Russian engineer Paul Yablochkov, was used for street lighting in Paris and other European cities from 1878.
