=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shinto: Funeral & Burial Customs | eCondolence.com]
Shinto funeral and burial customs include meticulous planning and execution as there are specific ritual commands that are to be carried out in an exact manner.
URL: https://www.econdolence.com/learning-center/religion-and-culture/shinto/shinto-funeral--burial-customs

[What To Expect at a Shinto Funeral - Get Ordained]
Aug 5, 2022 · Like many Japanese customs, Shinto funerals, called Sosai, are full of rites and rituals. In fact, there are twenty separate rituals that go into a proper Shinto funeral. Mixed with elements of Buddhism, these funerals allow the kami, or spiritual energy, of the deceased to move on to the next world. Shinto is the oldest religion practiced in Japan; over 3.4 million people consider it their ...
URL: https://getordained.org/blog/what-to-expect-at-a-shinto-funeral

[Appreciating The Intricacies Of Shinto Funerals With Daken And Wolverine]
Nov 25, 2021 · During the Death of Wolverine arc, Logan’s son, Daken, carried out a traditional Shinto funeral for his father. Shinto funerals have twenty steps and I’m looking into each one as a way of seeing how grief is processed.
URL: https://yamatomagazine.home.blog/2021/11/25/appreciating-the-intricacies-of-shinto-funerals-with-daken-and-wolverine/

[Shinsosai (Shinto Funeral) - Japanese Wiki Corpus]
Shinsosai (Shinto Funeral) (神葬祭) Shinsosai refers to funeral rites performed by Shinto, Japan's original religion. History of Shinsosai Japan's ancient funeral style was described in Japanese mythology, particularly in the episode of the funeral for Amenowakahiko in "Kojiki" (The Records of Ancient Matters), in which details of ancient funerals are elaborated on. Since the introduction ...
URL: https://www.japanesewiki.com/Shinto/Shinsosai%20(Shinto%20Funeral).html

[Shinto death 8: Funeral rite - Green Shinto]
Nov 15, 2015 · Shinto funerals naturally vary according to the local shrine customs, the status or personality of the deceased, and the influence of folk tradition. An outline of a typical funeral is as follows: Gohei are offered to the deceased. This is often used as a vehicle into which spirits descend. 1 .
URL: https://www.greenshinto.com/2015/11/15/shinto-death-8-funeral-rite/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shinto: Funeral & Burial Customs | eCondolence.com] ---
Shinto is Japan’s oldest religion and has a presence in the modern Japanese civilization. Even more, many Japanese Buddhist sects add elements of Shinto beliefs and rituals to their practices. Shinto funeral customs are not written down, but are traditions that have been handed down through the centuries. Proper preparation for a Shinto funeral takes meticulous planning and execution as there are twenty specific ritual commands to be followed. The Shinto religious tradition insists that the ceremony be carried out in an exact manner. Families are not allowed to deviate by adding a personal touch. Once the Death Occurs Almost nine out of ten Japanese funerals are conducted as a blend of Buddhist and Shinto traditions, a practice that both religions would see as complementary. Most homes maintain a Buddhist altar and a Shinto shrine. When death occurs, the altar and shrine are closed and covered to keep the spirits of the dead out. A small table, decorated with simple flowers, incense and a candle is placed next to the bed of the deceased. While formal notifications of the death occur during the twenty steps of the funeral preparation, informal notice is given to civil authorities and the closest of family members. Typically Japanese Shinto followers have not participated in organ donation. Regulations restricted the donations to only be permitted from those whose donor was declared brain dead and with prior written consent of the donor and the approval of the donor’s family. Some areas are working now to significantly relax the laws. Funeral arrangements are typically made by the eldest son, or oldest male relative. It is expected for the funeral to be held as quickly as possible. Exceptions are made if relatives have to travel a distance to participate in the services. An ancient tradition honoring the six-day lunar cycle often discourages funerals from being held on the second day of the cycle. All other days are generally considered acceptable. Funeral Preparation The rituals that are involved in the twenty steps of funeral preparation are followed in order to ready the spirit of the deceased for the spirit world. A process of purification is necessary for the spirit to be able to move into the spirit world. The home of the mourners must also be purified to remove the contamination of death. Steps One through Four The first step in the funeral preparation is “matsugo no mizu,” the washing of the lips. A close relative wets the lips of the deceased, giving the body its last taste of water. This is to be performed as close to the time of death as is possible. The “yukan” is the second step and this literally means the washing of the corpse. Several family members may be involved in this practical and ceremonial washing. The third step is the announcement of the death, called “kiyu hokoku.” The family announces the death to the spirit world through prayer and memorialization at the family shrine. “Makura naoshi no gi” is the fourth step. The phrase literally means “pillow decorations” and the ritual involves placing the deceased in such a way that the head is propped up on a pillow, facing north. Offerings of food are to be made to the gods at this time. A sword or knife is placed by the side of the deceased. Steps Five through Eight The placement of the body of the deceased in a coffin is the fifth step, called “nokan no gi.” Step six is “kyuzen nikku,” or daily food offerings to the deceased. These food offerings are to be made twice a day until the body is given its final resting place. Traditionally the favorite meals of the deceased are prepared. The next step, number seven, is the announcement of the return of the spirit to the local shrine. This process is called “ubusuna jinja ni kiyu hokokuh” and can be made by a simple phone call to the shrine. The eighth step, “bosho batsujo no gi,” is the earth purification ceremony. The priests from the local shrine will purify the ground to be used for the grave site with water and prayer. Steps Nine through Twelve The ninth step is called “kessai” and is when the priest purifies himself in preparation for the funeral. This normally occurs through ceremonial washings and prayer. “Tsuya sai” is the tenth step and is considered the wake. Mourners gather to express condolences to the family and present their offerings to the gods, the shrine and sometimes, the family. At this time the priests offer prayers for the deceased’s spirit and prayers of thanksgiving and comfort for the mourners. The eleventh step is called “senrei sai” and literally means the transfer of the spirit. The priest transfers the deceased’s spirit from the body into a wooden tablet. The tablet is held over the body of the deceased while the priest offers ceremonial prayers. The twelfth step is called “settai” a word for refreshments. Food that has been prepared at a different location to prevent the contamination of death is served to the mourners. This food may be anything from a light snack to a substantial meal. Steps Thirteen through Sixteen Step thirteen is the actual funeral service and is called “shinsosai.” The room where the funeral will be held is purified, prayers and offerings are made to the gods, and eulogies honoring the deceased are given by the priests. The fourteenth step is “kokobetsu shiki,” the farewell ceremony. Mourners leave the funeral by walking, single file, past the deceased. The mourner is to say final goodbyes to the deceased, and offer prayers and word condolences to the family. “Hakkyu sai no gi” is the departure of the coffin and is performed in step fifteen. The coffin is prepared for travel to the grave site. A sword is placed on the coffin and banners are placed around it so that the deceased becomes aware that it is time to move on. The actual funeral procession that transports the coffin to the cemetery or crematorium is “soretsu” and is the sixteenth step. Steps Seventeen through Twenty The home where the funeral ceremony has taken place is purified in step seventeen, called “hakkyu-go batsujo nogi.” Priests and relatives work together to make offerings and prayers to cleanse the house after the body is removed. The funeral altar is removed and a new altar is set up inside the house. “Maisosai” is the eighteenth step and is the offering of burial rites. Family and close friends will gather at either the grave site or crematorium with the body. Offerings are made on behalf of the deceased and are placed with the coffin. Prayers are led by the priests. Step nineteen is called “kotsuage” and literally means the picking up of the bones. Bones are removed from the crematorium ash and are placed in a vase. The final step is called “kika sai” and means coming home. Ashes that are not buried are brought to the home and placed in the family shrine. The bereaved offers thanks to the people who have participated in the funeral. Prayers and offerings are given on behalf of the deceased. Final Resting State The bodies of all but the most elite Japanese are cremated. The Shinto tradition is very concerned with what happens to the ashes. Any bones that are left in any form are to be picked out of the ash material with chopsticks. One family member picks them out and passes them to another family member who in turn places them inside an urn. Some of the pure ash material is given to family and close friends for enclosure in the family shrine. The remaining ashes are put in the urn with the bones and are to be kept within an above-ground mausoleum.


--- [What To Expect at a Shinto Funeral - Get Ordained] ---
Like many Japanese customs, Shinto funerals, called Sosai, are full of rites and rituals. In fact, there are twenty separate rituals that go into a proper Shinto funeral. Mixed with elements of Buddhism, these funerals allow the kami, or spiritual energy, of the deceased to move on to the next world. Shinto is the oldest religion practiced in Japan; over 3.4 million people consider it their sole religion. The belief system mixes Buddhist practices with old traditions and has been passed down through generations. Here’s what happens when someone who practices Shinto passes away. Before the Funeral After a death has occurred, the family’s Shinto shrine and Buddhist altar are covered to keep the spirit of the deceased from entering them. A small table decorated with flowers, candles, and incense is put next to the bed of the deceased. The oldest son or oldest male relative is in charge of making funeral arrangements. The funeral is held as quickly as possible, with exceptions being made if family members have to travel a long way to be present or if it’s the second day of the six-day lunar cycle. The First Four Steps The first rite is the washing of the lips. A close relative will wet the deceased’s lips with water, giving them the last taste of it. The second step is washing the body. Many family members may be involved in this process. Step three is announcing the death. Family members announce the death to the spirit world through prayers. The next step involves “pillow decorations.” The deceased’s head is propped up on a pillow facing north. A knife or sword is laid next to the decedent. Offerings of food are made to the gods. The Next Four Steps For the fifth step, the deceased’s body is placed in the coffin. Step six involves food offerings to the deceased. Favorite meals are made twice a day until the body is cremated. In step seven, the family announces the return of the kami to the local shrine. This can be done over the phone. Step eight is when the local priest blesses the burial site. Steps Nine Through Twelve In the ninth step, the priest purifies himself to get ready for the funeral. This person will pray while ceremonially washing. Step 10 is akin to a wake. Mourners gather to offer their condolences. Priests pray for the deceased’s kami and for comfort for the family. For step 11, the priest holds a wooden tablet over the decedent’s body, saying prayers that will transfer the kami into the tablet. Step 12 sees food served to mourners. It’s typically prepared elsewhere so it’s not contaminated by death. Steps 13 through 16 Step 13 is the funeral service, held at home, in a funeral parlor, or in a community center, since death is too unclean for a shrine. The room is purified, offerings are made to the gods, and eulogies are given. Step 14 is the farewell ritual, where mourners pass the coffin to say goodbye to the deceased. They also offer prayers for the family. In step 15, the coffin is prepped to travel to the gravesite or crematorium. The coffin is decorated so the deceased will know it’s time to move into the next world. Step 16 is the funeral procession. Steps 17 through 20 In step 17, the home of the deceased is purified. The 18th step involves offering burial rites. Family and friends gather at the gravesite or crematorium. Step 19 is “picking of the bones,” where someone removes any bone fragments from the cremated ashes and puts them in a vase to be placed in an above-ground mausoleum. Step 20 is when ashes that aren’t buried are brought home and placed in the family shrine. As you can see, a lot of ceremonial rituals go into a Shinto funeral. This beautiful tradition helps the family say goodbye.


--- [Appreciating The Intricacies Of Shinto Funerals With Daken And Wolverine] ---
Everyone has their own way of coping with death, whether through carrying out their own personal rituals or spending time with loved ones. The passing of my grandad has made me think about the burial ceremonies from different cultures, with comics offering an insight into the various practices. After all, death is never constant in comics. But we still mourn characters if we’ve read about them for years. Japanese funerals are some of the most elaborate, so it seemed appropriate that Wolverine’s death would be honoured through a culture that shaped his life. During the Death of Wolverine arc, Logan’s son, Daken, carried out a traditional Shinto funeral for his father. Shinto funerals have twenty steps and I’m looking into each one as a way of seeing how grief is processed. Step 1 – Matsugo No Mizu (Washing The Lips) The first step in a Shinto funeral is known as the ‘washing the lips.’ This involves a relative wetting the lips of the dead, which acts as a symbolic gesture for the body having its last taste of water. The first step is performed as close to the time of death as possible. To start the funeral, Daken took Wolverine’s remains to a Shinto priest in Okinawa. Step 2 – Yukan (Washing The Body) The second step, called yukan, involves the body being washed. Yukan is done for practical and ceremonial reasons. Several family members can take part in washing the body. Step 3 – Kiyu Hokoku (Announcement Of Death) The third step is based around the family announcing to the spirit world that a person is dead. This is done through prayer and usually carried out at a family shrine. Step 4 – Makura Naoshi No Gi (Laying The Body Down) The fourth step of the ritual involves the body being set down with the head propped up on a pillow. Makura Noashi No Gi can be translated as ‘pillow decorations,’ with the body always facing north. Food offerings are given to the gods, while a sword or knife is placed beside the dead. Step 5 – Nokan No Gi (Placing In The Coffin) Step five is straightforward because the body is placed within a coffin. In Wolverine’s case, Daken chose to let the priest carry out his work alone. Step 6 – Kyuzen Nikku (Offerings For The Deceased) Kyuzen Nikku involves more food, though it’s different from step four because meals are offered to the dead. Traditionally, the offerings are the favourite meals of the deceased, made twice a day until the final resting place is given. Step 7 – Ubusuna Jinja Ni Kiyu Hokoku (Announcement Of The Return Of The Spirit) The seventh step focuses on the spirit returning to the local shrine. From Daken’s perspective, I imagine him believing his father’s spirit to be one of the most powerful forces in the world. Step 8 – Bosho Batsujo No Gi (Purifying The Ground) This step is meant to act as a purification ritual. A priest concentrates on purifying the earth that will be used as the grave site. The process is done through a combination of water and prayer. Step 9 – Kessai (Purifying The Self) Kessai involves the priest purifying himself in preparation for the funeral. This may be done by a priest pouring water over himself. Step 10 – Tsuya Sai (The Wake) The wake occurs at the half way point, with the family gathering together to remember the dead. Priests offer prayers and thank mourners for attending the funeral. Daken was the only one present at Wolverine’s wake and shared a drink with the priest. Step 11 – Senrei Sai (Transferring The Spirit) Senrei sai is about transferring the deceased’s spirit from the body into a wooden box. The box is held over the body, representing the separation. Step 12 – Settai (Refreshments) Settai involves mourners eating food that’s been prepared in a different location. This is done to avoid the contamination of death and the food could range from a small snack to a large meal. Step 13 – Shinsosai (Eulogy) The formal funeral service happens with shinsosai. The funeral room is purified, offerings are made to the gods and eulogies are carried out to honour the dead. Step 14 – Kokobetsu Shiki (Farewell) This step is focused on mourners saying goodbye to the deceased. A single file line is formed, with each mourner walking past the body to give a final farewell. Step 15 – Hakkyu Sai No Gi (Departure Of The Coffin) The coffin is prepared to travel to the grave site during the fifteenth step. A banner-decorated sword may be placed on the coffin as a way of letting the dead know that it’s time to move on. Daken chose to transfer his father’s remains in a small box, demonstrating a less elaborate approach. Step 16 – Soretsu (Funeral Procession) The funeral procession happens with the sixteenth step and the coffin is taken to a cemetery or crematorium. Step 17 – Hakkyu-Go Batsujo No Gi (Purification Of The House) This step is one of the most intimate parts of the entire ceremony. The home where the funeral has taken place is purified after the body has been removed. A new altar is set up inside the house. Daken’s family altar was made up of pictures of his mother and father side by side. Step 18 – Maisosai (Burial Rites) Burial rites are performed during the eighteenth step. The priest will pray and offerings are made on behalf of the deceased. Step 19 – Kotsusage (Removal Of The Bones) Perhaps the most intimate step, kotsusage involves the literal picking up of bones. A family member plucks the bones of a loved one with chopsticks and places them inside a vase. The bones come out of the crematorium ash. In a symbolic gesture, Daken picked up a claw fragment from his father and placed it inside a vase. Step 20 – Kika Sai (Coming Home) For the final step, ashes that haven’t been buried are brought home and placed inside the family shrine. The bereaved offers thanks to the people who’ve attended the funeral. Wolverine’s funeral highlights the peace that burial rituals bring to people. Shinto funerals are complex, reverent ceremonies that show another side of death.


--- [Shinsosai (Shinto Funeral) - Japanese Wiki Corpus] ---
Shinsosai (Shinto Funeral) (神葬祭) Shinsosai refers to funeral rites performed by Shinto, Japan's original religion. History of Shinsosai Japan's ancient funeral style was described in Japanese mythology, particularly in the episode of the funeral for Amenowakahiko in "Kojiki" (The Records of Ancient Matters), in which details of ancient funerals are elaborated on. Since the introduction of Buddhism to Japan, Buddhist funerals spread rapidly as Japan's funeral rites. After the Edo period, to prevent the spread of Christian faith, Buddhist funerals became obligatory through the introduction of the "Terauke seido" (the system of organizing whole temples in Japan with registration of follower families=every person should belong to a Buddhist temple). By the middle and late Edo period, however, due to the boom of the study in Japanese classical literature and the appeal by scholars of Japanese classical literature for a resurgence of ancient Japanese spirits and culture, research on Shinsosai was also carried out, and campaigns to promote funerals based on Japan's ancient faith (Shinsosai Movement) were pursued. As a result, the (Edo) bakufu (Japanese feudal government headed by a shogun) gave approval for Shinsosai to a limited extent. After the Meiji period, the government encouraged Shinsosai as part of "Jingi policy" (policy advocated by "Jingisho,"or Ministry of Divinities). For example, as a cemetery designated exclusively to Shinsosai, the Aoyama cemetery was set up. On July 18, 1873, cremation was prohibited on the grounds that it was a Buddhist practice (cremation was allowed again on May 23, 1875). Some communities converted to Shinsosai as a whole, following the Ordinance Distinguishing Shinto and Buddhism and "Haibutsu-kishaku" (a movement to abolish Buddhism). Because freedom of religion was guaranteed, although still limited, by the Meiji Constitution, people were not forced to perform Shinsosai. However, while funeral rites were designated as a religious act, Shinto priests (with the exception of priests of shrines below the rank of prefectural shrines, who were allowed to practice Shinsosai for a while), who were regarded as government officials (It is agreed that Shrine Shinto was not a religion), were prohibited from performing Shinsosai because it was a religious act. As a result, the promulgation of Shinsosai grew stagnant except at Sect Shinto (new religion close to Shinto), which was allowed to engage in religious activities. After WWII, Shinto recovered its status as a religious faith and has been allowed performing funeral rites. Currently, Buddhist funerals are still popular, but Shinsosai has shown an upward trend on the grounds that the meanings of rites are easy to understand, and that compared with funerals of other religious faiths, Shinsosai puts a lighter strain on finances. Shinto's view of life and death In Shinto, it is considered that 'all humans are children of gods; through gods' arrangement, they are put in the mother's womb and enter the world, and after humans finish playing a role on the earth, they return to the world of gods and protect their descendants.' The objective of Shinsosai, therefore, is to transform the deceased to a tutelary spirit of his/her household. Also, because Shinto associates death with "kegare" (impurity), funeral rites are rarely performed at a shrine, a sacred place where gods rest. Instead, funeral rites are performed at the deceased's house or a funeral hall. It's important, however, to understand that according to Shinto's definition, the term 'kegare' (impurity) does not mean 'dirty or uncleanliness.' The word 'kegare' refers to a depressed state of mind, in which vigorous life force diminishes because of the pain of bereavement (this state can be expressed as 'kegare (a homonym),' literary, the exhausted mind). Characteristics of Shinsosai A "shigo" (a posthumous name) is given. In many schools of Buddhism, a posthumous name, 'kaimyo' or 'homyo' (Jodo Shinshu, or the True Pure Land Sect of Buddhism), is given to the deceased by monks whereas in Shinto 'okurina,' an equivalent of Buddhism's 'kaimyo,' is given. In most cases, the name of the deceased is inscribed (in ink) on the top part of "reiji" (spirit vessel), Shinto equivalent of Buddhist mortuary tablet, followed by a honorific title, which, like kaimyo, represents the personality and achievements of the deceased and the season of his or her death, although this title is omitted in many cases these days. The last part, which represents the age and sex of the deceased, is concluded with ink-written "reigo" (spiritual title) such as 'Ushi' for adult men and 'Toji' for adult women. Depending on ages and achievements, the deceased is sometimes given--if the deceased is male--reigo other than 'Ushi' such as 'wakahiko,' 'warako,' 'iratsuko,' 'hiko,' 'ookina,' 'o, 'taio,' 'kimi,' 'mikoto,' and 'son,' and--if the deceased is female--reigo other than 'Toji' (if a woman) such as 'warame,' 'iratsume,' 'otoji,' 'ona,' 'oona,' 'hime,' and 'hime (different Chinese character).' Examples of shigo are "XXX (the name of the deceased) 美志真心高根 Ushi" and "XXX Sanae Warame" (for a girl who died young). Incense is not used. In Buddhist funerals, "shoko" (incense offering) is practiced during funeral rites, and incense is placed upright in front of a Buddhist altar whereas in Shinsosai, shoko and the use of incense are rarely practiced. The practice in Shinsosai that corresponds to shoko is 'tamagushihoten.' The word 'tamagushi' refers to a branch of sacred trees, such as Sakaki, with "shide" (a zigzag-shaped paper streamer) being attached to the branch. It is important to offer shide because it expresses the faith of worshippers, and in areas where Sakaki is not available in large quantities, the practice called 'kake-tamagushi' is practiced, whereby a set of shide are put in branches of a large Sakaki. Sometimes, 'kenmai' or 'kenpai,' in which rice (the former) or sake (the latter) is poured into a container, is practiced instead. Graves Shinto-style graves are called 'Okutsuki' (spelled as '奥都城, or alternatively '奥城'). In general, the top part of a headstone is pointed so that it resembles "eboshi" (formal headwear for court nobles)--there are exceptions--, and the phrase "XXX-ke Okutsuki" (a grave for the XXXs) is inscribed in the front side of the headstone. When visiting a grave, you are required to offer not incense but Sakaki, rice, salt, water, sake, and so on. Of course, it is acceptable to offer foods that were loved by the deceased or flowers. Mitamaya (where ancestral spirits were enshrined) 祖霊舎 (pronounced as 'mitamaya' and also spelled as '御霊舎' or '御霊屋') is Shinto equivalent of a Buddhist altar. The majority of them are made of Hinoki (Japanese cypress) wood and, in general, it is simpler than a Buddhist altar. Usually, mitamaya is placed under "kamidana" (a household Shinto altar). Manners for regular worship and offerings are same as when worshipping kamidana, but the worship of kamidana should precede the worship of mitamaya. Shinsosai procedures Makura-naoshi no gi (pillow-adjustment rite) This is the first rite of Shinsosai. The death of a loved one is reported to kamidana and mitamaya. Then, white Japanese paper is attached to the front side of the kamidana (this practice is called 'kamidana-fuji' (The household shrine is closed and covered with a white paper, to keep out the impure spirits of the dead). Kamidana-fuji will be discarded at the memorial service held on the 50th day after loved one's death.) The body of the loved one is clothed in white "kosode" (a kimono with short sleeves worn as underclothing by the upper classes) and laid down so that his/her pillow faces north, and a sword for protection is placed next to the pillow. An altar is set up in front, and rice, sake, salt, water, items loved by the deceased, and so on are offered. Nokan no gi (coffin rite) This is a rite for placing the body in a coffin. The lid is put on the coffin, and after covering the coffin with white fabric, all the attendants pray. In some cases, a rite of "matsugo-no-mizu" (water of the last moment) is performed, whereby the mouth of the deceased is wetted with leaves of Sakaki soaked with water. On this occasion, the deceased is clothed in a white garment called "kamui" (garment of gods), Shinto's equivalent of "kyokatabira" (a shroud used by Buddhists), which resembles "kariginu"(informal clothes worn by Court nobles), and the 'form of gods' is created by getting the body hold "shaku" (a mace) and wear eboshi for men or hold a fan for women. Incidentally, rigor mortis sometimes has already set in, or even if it has not, there are cases these days in which the body has already become stiff because of dry ice, and so on. In this case, it is common that the body is just covered with a garment, and eboshi is placed near the pillow. If the deceased is bathed after death (called 'yukan') as a newborn baby take "ubuyu" (a baby's first bath), there is no problems because the body becomes flexible. Tsuyasai (a ritual wake) and Senreisai (rite for transferring the deceased spirit) "Tsuyasai" (a ritual wake) corresponds to Buddhist funeral's "Tsuya" (a wake, all-night vigil over a body). "Senreisai" is a rite for transferring the deceased spirit to reiji so that the spirit would rest at reiji. A Shinto priest chants a eulogy while the family of the deceased offers tamagushi and prays. In Senreisai, 'mitama utsushi no gi' (a rite for transferring spirit) is performed, whereby a Shinto priest transfers the spirit of the deceased from the body to reiji while the room is darkened so that it represents a night. In this rite, the priest mumbles "keihitsu," or sounds of heralding (sometimes with a drum), and this sound is prototype of the onomatopoeia (sound effect) 'hyu-doro-doro-doro,' which is used in Japanese ghost films. Sojosai (grave-side rites) "Sojosai" is a series of the most important and ceremonious rites of Shinsosai to pay final respects (bid final farewell) to loved ones. In Sojosai, s set of rites such as the delivering of memorial addresses, the announcement of condolence telegrams, the chanting of a eulogy by a Shinto priest, and the offering of tamagushi are performed. Sojosai corresponds to a Buddhist funeral ceremony and a memorial service. Kasosai (crematory rite) "Kasosai" is a rite performed at a crematorium before cremating the body. A Shinto priest chants a eulogy while the family of the deceased offers tamagushi and prays. Maisosai (interment rite) "Maisosai" is a rite for burying cremains in a cemetary. The gravesite is surrounded by "Shimenawa"(sacred rice-straw ropes) stretched among bamboos set up at four corners of the gravesite, and cremains are buried while a priest chants a eulogy, and the family of the deceased prays. In Shinsosai, cremains are brought directly from a crematorium to the grave and buried. Recently, however, it has become more popular for the family of the deceased to bring cremains to their home and bury them at the memorial service held 50 days after a loved one's death, the time when mourning ends. Kikasai (the rite of the family's return home) and Naorai (feast) When the family of the deceased goes home after cremation and burial, they are given "oharai" (purification) by a Shinto priest, and the family throws salt to the gates (door) of their house. And the family reports to the spirit of the deceased that the funeral rites were finished without problems. Then,"naorai" (feast) is convened. Naorai refers to a banquet presented by the family of the deceased to thank the Shinto priest, stewards, and so on for their services in funeral rites. With the end of naorai, all the funeral rites (Shinsosai) are completed, and subsequent memorial services will be performed as "Mitamamatsuri." Mitamamatsuri "Mitamamatsuri" (memorial services) are held on the 10th, 20th, 30th, 40th, and 50th days after death, followed by the first anniversary. Mitamamatsuri held on the 10th and 50th day after death correspond to Buddhist memorial service held on the 7th and 49th days after death, respectively. Mitamamatsuri held on the 20th, 30th, and 40th day after death are sometimes omitted, although this varies depending on regions and Shinto priests in charge of funeral rites. Incidentally, the first anniversary is followed by third, fifth, and 10th anniversaries, and afterwards, Mitamamatsuri is held every five years. The third anniversary Mitamamatsuri corresponds to Buddhist's third anniversary memorial service, but note that in Buddhism, the year of death is counted as the year one, thus the third anniversary being held in two years after death, whereas the third anniversary Mitamamatsuri is held in three years after death (same for the fifth and 10th anniversary Mitamamatsuri). Dos and Don'ts in Shinsosai Buddhist funerals are performed by Buddhist monks whereas Shinsosai is performed by Shinto priests. Of course, because Shinsosai is Shinto ceremonies, you are not supposed to bring "juzu" (Buddhist prayer beads). The cover address of an envelope that contains condolence money for Shinsosai should be 'otamagushiryo,' 'osakakiryo,' 'goshinzen,' or 'goreizen.' In the case of Mitamamatsuri, the cover address should also be 'otamagushiryo,' and so on. The payment for services given by a Shinto priest should be titled as 'osaishiryo,' 'onrei,' 'goshinsenryo,' or 'osakakiryo.' Incidentally, a lotus flower motif should not be printed on envelopes. The worship manners in Shinsosai are the same as when worshipping kamidana or shrines--you bow a little once, bow once, clap hands twice, and bow once ('Ichiyu-ippai-nihakushu-ippai' style) or you bow twice, clap hands twice, and bow once --, but when clapping hands (Shinto) in funeral rites, you are required to do so without making a sound until the body is brought into a crematorium. This clapping style is called 'shinobite.' After gigoreisai (儀後霊祭), you can clap your hands in a normal manner. Rules, however, may differ depending on religious doctrines (different Sect Shintos) and local practices, such as the presence or absence of shinobite and the number of clapping, so you are required to follow specific rules.


--- [Shinto death 8: Funeral rite - Green Shinto] ---
Funeral ceremony The funeral proper is but one in a series of rites for the deceased. Usually held two days after the death, it takes about two hours. Since a Shinto funeral cannot be held on shrine grounds (due to the impurity of death), it is conducted in a private house, a commercial funeral hall, a community center, or in a shrine-owned building adjacent to but not actually part of the shrine precincts. The coffin is the basis of the altar. Arranged around the coffin are: a photo of the deceased; a banner with the name of the deceased; a protective sword or a mirror; a pair of black lacquered clogs placed on a table near the head of the deceased. Tables of food offerings (favorite foods of the deceased, salt, water, rice, vegetables, fruit, sweets) are also set up. This coffin-altar is set up against the back of the room. Shimenawa (sacred rope) or curtains may be hung around the area, white and yellow banners stand near the coffin, while lights and sakaki branches are placed in front. The ritual area has usually been raised up higher than the floor on which the mourners sit. If it is not higher, it is marked off in some way from the other part of the room. Shinto funerals naturally vary according to the local shrine customs, the status or personality of the deceased, and the influence of folk tradition. An outline of a typical funeral is as follows: 1 . The mourners purify themselves by washing their hands and mouths. 2. The mourners enter the funeral site and take their seats. If there are musicians (who are usually Shinto priests themselves), they enter the room after the mourners. 3. The chief priest enters the room. The participants bow once in unison toward the priest. 4. Announcement of the start of the funeral: “We will now hold the funeral of So-and-So.” 5. Purification rite. The priests purify the room, offerings and participants. The participants make a deep bow while the priest performs the purification. If they are sitting on chairs, they should stand up and bow their heads. 6. The chief priest bows once, and others follow. 7. The priests present the food offerings and banners; gagaku music may be played, live or taped. In a 1995 funeral for a Shinto priest in Shiga prefecture, the offerings were more varied than the ritual manuals would indicate: sake, large flat rice cakes, fish, seaweed, radish, cabbage, carrots, bananas, melons, and apples. 8. The priests offer gohei (wood sticks with zigzag white paper attached; also called heihaku). 9. The chief priest presents an elegy praising the life of the deceased and prays that the deceased may rest in peace and become a guardian deity, like his own ancestors, to watch over his descendants. The mourners listen to the priest’s words with bowed heads. 10. A eulogy is offered by an assistant priest. He gives a brief biography and describes the virtues of the deceased. 1 1 . Expressions of condolence by the mourners. 12. Reading of condolence telegrams and other messages. 13. Offering of tamagushi. First the chief priest presents a tamagushi to the altar, then the other priests do so. Next, the chief mourner, family members and other guests offer tamagushi. 13. The priests remove first the gohei, then the food offerings. 14. The chief priest bows once. Then the mourners all bow once. 15. The priests leave the room. 16. Announcement of the end of the funeral. Throughout the funeral, when the priests or others are called upon to clap, they should clap without making any noise. This is called shinobide (literally, patient hands). Ordinary clapping is a regular part of Shinto worship. The soundless clapping at funerals thus represents an inversion of normal practices. Some priests state that silent clapping should be practiced for one year after the funeral during the memorial rites. Others state that the clapping should gradually get louder and louder over the course of a year. The 1995 funeral in Shiga for a Shinto priest included an additional eulogy by the chief mourner, the son of the deceased, himself also now a Shinto priest after a twenty-year business career. Toward the end of the ceremony, he stepped out of the building to address the many people standing outside who had listened to the ceremony over loudspeakers. The priest thanked them for coming on such a cold day and spoke of his father with respect and affection. He used ordinary Japanese, not the high stilted voice and archaic diction he had used in front of the altar when delivering a eulogy directly to the deceased. One guest commented with approval that he sounded “like a real pro” (that is, a professional Shinto priest) inside, but outside he sounded “like a son.” Next, gifts were distributed to the mourners. The gifts, contained in ordinary white supermarket plastic bags, were distributed unceremoniously from the back of a truck. As the guests waited for the funeral procession to begin, some of them looked inside the bags and took out small sweets and crackers.
