=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[GilbertMorganSmith- Wikipedia]
GilbertMorganSmith(6 January 1885, Beloit, Wisconsin – 11 July 1959) was a botanist and phycologist, who worked primarily on the algae.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilbert_Morgan_Smith

[GilbertMorganSmithMedal- Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia]
TheGilbertMorganSmithMedalis awarded by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in recognition of excellence in published research on marine or freshwater algae. It has been awarded every threeyearssince 1979.
URL: https://Alchetron.com/Gilbert-Morgan-Smith-Medal

[2024GilbertMorganSmithMedal- YouTube]
Robert S. Steneck, University of MaineSteneck’s insightful studies on marine algae extend from the poles to the tropics, documenting their cascading roles in...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6Ne7XV86jI

[UBC biologist wins NASGilbertMorganSmithMedal| UBC Science]
UBC biologist Dr. Patrick Keeling willreceivethe2021GilbertMorganSmithMedal. Themedal, awarded every threeyearsby the National Academy of Sciences, recognizes excellence in research on marine or freshwater algae.
URL: https://science.ubc.ca/news/ubc-biologist-wins-nas-gilbert-morgan-smith-medal

[2018SmithMedalto Mark Hay | College of Sciences]
He continues to educate the world about the plight of endangered ecosystems by organizing international symposia and web-based global discussions. Presented every threeyears, theSmithMedalconsists of a gold-plated bronzemedaland a $50,000 prize.
URL: https://cos.gatech.edu/news/2018-smith-medal-mark-hay


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [GilbertMorganSmith- Wikipedia] ---
Gilbert Morgan Smith (6 January 1885, Beloit, Wisconsin – 11 July 1959) was a botanist and phycologist, who worked primarily on the algae. He was best known for his books, particularly the Freshwater Algae of the United States, the Marine Algae of the Monterey Peninsula and the two volumes of Cryptogamic Botany.


--- [GilbertMorganSmithMedal- Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia] ---
The Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal is awarded by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences "in recognition of excellence in published research on marine or freshwater algae." It has been awarded every three years since 1979. List of Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal winners Source: NAS Takao Kondo (2015) For demonstrating the occurrence of circadian clocks in prokaryotes, leading through genetic dissection to the discovery of the central bacterial clock genes, kaiABC, and to a new way of thinking about algal ecology. John B. Waterbury (2012) For the discovery and characterization of planktonic marine cyanobacteria, and viruses that infect them, setting in motion a paradigm shift in our understanding of ocean productivity, ecology, and biogeochemical cycles. Arthur R. Grossman (2009) For pioneering creative and comprehensive research on algae and cyanobacteria, elucidating molecular mechanisms by which they adapt to changes in light color and to nutrient stress. Sabeeha Merchant (2006) For her pioneering discoveries in the assembly of metalloenzymes and the regulated biogenesis of major complexes of the photosynthetic apparatus in green algae. Sarah P. Gibbs (2003) For her revolutionary concepts and evidence that constitute the foundation for the current theory of chloroplast evolution and the phylogenetic relationships of algae and plants. Shirley W. Jeffrey (2000) For her discovery and characterization of major algal pigments, their quantitative application in oceanography, and for providing phytoplankton cultures for international research. Isabella A. Abbott (1997) For her comprehensive investigations of the biogeography and systematics of marine algae in the eastern and central Pacific, with emphasis on Rhodophyta, the red algae. Elisabeth Gantt (1994) For her pioneering work in elucidating the supramolecular structure of the light-harvesting complexes and energy transfer in the photosynthetic apparatus of red and blue-green algae. Jean-David Rochaix (1991) For his elegant, inventive studies in Chlamydomonas using genetics along with cell and molecular biology to elucidate molecular mechanisms of chloroplast biogenesis, photosynthesis, and nuclear-chloroplast interactions. Ruth Sager (1988) For her key role in the developing our understanding of genetic systems in organelles though her studies of chloroplast inheritance in the green alga Chlamydomonas Richard C. Starr (1985) For his important work, which elucidated the sexuality of desmids and green algae. This was the first time the details of meiosis had been set forth for these groups. Luigi Provasoli (1982) For his excellence in phycology, especially for his work on the culture and nutrition of algae, and the influence of bacteria and organic substances on the morphology of larger algae. William R. Taylor (1979) For his outstanding contributions to the knowledge of the marine algae of Florida, the Caribbean Sea, the Northwestern Atlantic, and the tropical Pacific Oceans.


--- [2024GilbertMorganSmithMedal- YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [UBC biologist wins NASGilbertMorganSmithMedal| UBC Science] ---
UBC biologist wins NAS Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal January 21, 2021 January 21, 2021 UBC biologist Dr. Patrick Keeling will receive the 2021 Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal. The medal, awarded every three years by the National Academy of Sciences, recognizes excellence in research on marine or freshwater algae. Keeling is a leading expert in the study of single-cell organisms known as protists and in algal diversity. His research has given insights into the role of endosymbiosis in algal evolution. By bringing together genomics, cell biology, and biodiversity, his work highlights the importance of evolutionary microbiology. Nearly half of his 300 publications advance the science of freshwater and marine algae. Keeling has also promoted and mentored the discipline, serving as Director of two major research networks in microbial diversity and evolution. The Smith Medal was established in March 1968 at the bequest of Helen P. Smith in memory of her husband, Gilbert Morgan Smith. Smith was a renowned botanist, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and the first President of the Phycological Society of America. We honour xwməθkwəy̓ əm (Musqueam) on whose ancestral, unceded territory UBC Vancouver is situated. UBC Science is committed to building meaningful relationships with Indigenous peoples so we can advance Reconciliation and ensure traditional ways of knowing enrich our teaching and research. Learn more: Musqueam First Nation


--- [2018SmithMedalto Mark Hay | College of Sciences] ---
Mark E. Hay, Regents Professor and Harry and Linda Teasley Chair in the School of Biological Sciences at Georgia Tech, is the recipient of the 2018 Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal of the National Academy of Sciences. The award recognizes excellence in published research on marine and freshwater algae. The 2018 Smith Medal recognizes Hay’s research into algal science, which has influenced a generation of scientists and revealed numerous insights into the declining health of ocean ecosystems. His research has enormous implications for coral reef recovery, along with the ecosystems and human societies that depend upon these reefs. Hay developed algal chemical ecology as the major model for marine chemical ecology, a field that he cofounded. He elucidated how chemical cues and signals from algae structure marine and aquatic populations, communities, and ecosystems. An experimental ecologist, Hay led scientific expeditions to remote regions to study the processes and mechanisms that control the organization, function, and sustainability of natural ecosystems. His studies of seaweed – which comprise red, brown, and green marine algae – have revolutionized the practice of marine conservation and management. “By conducting phycological studies within the broader intellectual framework of ecology and evolution, Mark extended the impact of his algal studies,” says James H. Tumlinson, the Ralph O. Mumma Professor of Entomology and Director of the Center for Chemical Ecology at Pennsylvania State University. “His research has informed the conservation of coral reefs and helped predict how coastal ecosystems will be altered by global change.” Hay’s 40-year academic career features many discoveries about the natural history of seaweeds. Initially, he focused on the effects of physical factors and biotic interactions on algal ecology, Tumlinson says. Then Hay turned to seaweed-herbivore interactions, seaweed chemical defenses, and the roles they played in deterring herbivores, overcoming competitors, and organizing seaweed communities. Insights from his research enabled Hay to predict that particular combinations of herbivores would be needed to stop seaweed damage to corals and the algal domination of reefs. “By manipulating herbivore diversity alone, Hay’s lab was able to prevent coral mortality and increase coral growth, thus demonstrating the applied potential of his research,” Tumlinson says. “More recent work demonstrates the critical role of algal chemical cues in fish and coral recruitment on Pacific reefs and the impact of these chemical cues on reef resilience.” “His research has informed the conservation of coral reefs and helped predict how coastal ecosystems will be altered by global change.” The Smith Medal is the latest of significant honors bestowed upon Hay. In 2016, Hay reaped three awards: He received the International Society of Chemical Ecology (ICSE) Silver Medal, the society’s highest honor. He was named Fellow of the Ecological Society of America. And Georgia Tech named Hay the recipient of the 2016 Outstanding Faculty Research Author Award, for producing the most impactful publications from Georgia Tech in the previous five years. “We bask in the glow of Mark’s accomplishment,” says College of Sciences Dean and Sutherland Chair Paul M. Goldbart. “Through his research and education efforts, Mark serves as a role model inspiring countless students and colleagues. In his communication efforts, Mark sets a superb example that so many more of us need to emulate.” Indeed, Hay’s outstanding scholarship is matched by his zeal in communicating his research and its ecological implications in ways that are understandable to the public. He has written articles for the New York Time’s Scientists At Work blog and given numerous interviews to broadcast media, including NPR, BBC, CBS, ABC, Voice of America, and Voice of Russia. “Because the ecosystem I study is disappearing,” Hay says, “I’ve perceived the need to focus on senior decision makers that can make a difference in the very near term.” Lately, he has been speaking about environmental challenges at corporations like The Coca-Cola Company and at community organizations, such as Rotary Clubs. He continues to educate the world about the plight of endangered ecosystems by organizing international symposia and web-based global discussions. Presented every three years, the Smith Medal consists of a gold-plated bronze medal and a $50,000 prize. The bequest of Helen P. Smith in memory of her husband, Gilbert Morgan Smith, established the award in March 1968. Gilbert Smith was a renowned botanist, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and the first president of the Phycological Society of America. For More Information Contact A. Maureen Rouhi, Ph.D. Director of Communications College of Sciences
