=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bridge Meaning in Kashmiri | Definition, Usage & Examples]
Bridge meaning in Kashmiri with definition, pronunciation, usage examples, etymology, synonyms, antonyms and multilingual translations of the word bridge.
URL: https://www.khandbahale.com/language/kashmiri-dictionary-translation-meaning-of-bridge

[List of bridges in Srinagar - Wikipedia]
In the Kashmiri language, these bridges are known as kadals. [2] Localities around them have been eponymously named. [3] The old seven bridges are of similar construction and made of Cedrus deodara. Apart from heavy rocks used to add weight to the foundation, the entire bridge was made of wood. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_bridges_in_Srinagar

[Bridges - Kashmir As It Is]
Zero Bridge is the oldest bridge in the Srinagar. This bridge was constructed by deaf contractor and hence was called “Zorr Bridge” (Zorr in Kashmiri means deaf).
URL: https://kashmirasitis.com/bridges/

[Why is it called Nur Jahan bridge? : r/Kashmiri]
The construction of this bridge took place around the time i was born so i quite literally saw this bridge grow with me over the years, but why would they ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kashmiri/comments/1oldmpc/why_is_it_called_nur_jahan_bridge/

[Bridge in Kashmiri: WhatIsCalled.com]
What is Bridge called in Kashmiri with how to pronounce and transliteration in English?
URL: https://www.whatiscalled.com/building-names/bridge_in_kashmiri/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bridge Meaning in Kashmiri | Definition, Usage & Examples] ---
No content


--- [List of bridges in Srinagar - Wikipedia] ---
The city of Srinagar in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, India, originally had seven wooden bridges across the Jhelum River. The seven bridges — Amira, Habba, Fateh, Zaina, Aali, Nawa and Safa — were constructed between the 15th and 18th century. This number remained unchanged for at least five centuries. In the Kashmiri language, these bridges are known as kadals. Localities around them have been eponymously named.
The old seven bridges are of similar construction and made of Cedrus deodara. Apart from heavy rocks used to add weight to the foundation, the entire bridge was made of wood. A number of passages allow for the flow of water making them considerably strong against water level and flow changes. They have been reconstructed a number of times. In 1841, bridges 3 to 7 were washed away. In 1893, bridges 2 to 7 were washed away.


--- [Bridges - Kashmir As It Is] ---
Zero Bridge Zero Bridge is the oldest bridge in the Srinagar. This bridge was constructed by deaf contractor and hence was called “Zorr Bridge” (Zorr in Kashmiri means deaf). Leater the name modified into Zero Bridge. It is the iconic bridge that was constructed by wooden planks in 1950’s and thus is also regarded as the point of the local heritage. Amira kadal Amira kadal bridge is also called First bridge. It was constructed in 1774 by Afghan Governor Amir Khan Sher Jawan. Since then this bridge has witnessed the history from Afghans to flocking Pandits to Dogra rule. Later in 1982 this bridge was made from concrete and stones by Chief Minister Sheikh Abdullah. The flocks of fisherwomen are seen selling fish on this bridge. This bridge is also said to be the face of Srinagar – every tourist should visit this to have a feel of a local life and livelihood. Haba Kadal Also called the second bridge, Habba Kadal or Hab-Kadal, was built by one of the rulers of Kashmir called Habib Shah in 1551. This bridge was effected by drastic flood in 1893 and then was re-constructed. In 2001, CM farooq Abdullah inaugurated the newly constructed concrete bridge which is few meters upstream the old bridge. Fateh Kadal Fateh Kadal is also called the third bridge. This bridge is the olders among all the bridges and has now been dilapidated for the actual use. A new concrete bridge has been built instead. Zein Kadal Zein kadal or Zain Kadal is the fourth bridge built by Kashmiri ruler Zain-ul-haq. This bridge is an example of the ancient Kashmir architecture.This bridge has been of a great importance for the traders. A new bridge of concrete has been built a few meters upstream the old one. Ail Kadal Aile Kadal is the fifth bridge and was constructed by Sultan Ali Shah in 1415. He created this bridge to have a paranormic view of the splashing water and enjoy the gentle breeze. However now this part of the river where the bridge stands has been polluted. Washer man can be seen washing clothes at the Aile Kadal ghats and it has also become a garbage dumping area for the residents. The old Aile Kadal bridge was burnt by the millitants, however there is a new one now. Nawa Kadal Nawa Kadal or the sixth bridge was actually built in 1953 by CM Sheikh Abdullah. However in 1981, the agitators and protestors burnt the bridge and then the new one (which stands today) was built by CM Farooq Abdullah. Safa Kadal Safa Kadal is the oldest bridge in the league. This bridge represents the old Kashmiri architecture and depicts the saga of the skilled workers who crafted this bridge with the heavy logs of wood on gushing Jhelum.


--- [Why is it called Nur Jahan bridge? : r/Kashmiri] ---
[deleted] Why is it called Nur Jahan bridge? The construction of this bridge took place around the time i was born so i quite literally saw this bridge grow with me over the years, but why would they name it Nur Jahan bridge😭⁉️ The construction of this bridge took place around the time i was born so i quite literally saw this bridge grow with me over the years, but why would they name it Nur Jahan bridge😭⁉️


--- [Bridge in Kashmiri: WhatIsCalled.com] ---
language Toggle navigation All Language Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Assamese Bengali Bhojpuri Bosnian Bulgarian Burmese Cambodian Cantonese Catalan Cebuano Chinese Croatian Czech Danish Dutch Estonian Filipino Finnish French Georgian German Greek Gujarati Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Irish Italian Japanese Kannada Kashmiri Konkani Korean Kurdish Latvian Macedonian Malay Malayalam Maltese Mandarin Manipuri Marathi Marwari Mongolian Nepali Norwegian Oriya Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese Punjabi Romanian Russian Sanskrit Scottish Serbian Sindhi Sinhalese Slovak Slovenian Somali Spanish Sundanese Swahili Swedish Taiwanese Tamil Telugu Thai Tibetan Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Uzbek Vietnamese Welsh Zulu Select Language Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Assamese Bengali Bhojpuri Bosnian Bulgarian Burmese Cambodian Cantonese Catalan Cebuano Chinese Croatian Czech Danish Dutch Estonian Filipino Finnish French Georgian German Greek Gujarati Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Irish Italian Japanese Kannada Kashmiri Konkani Korean Kurdish Latvian Macedonian Malay Malayalam Maltese Mandarin Manipuri Marathi Marwari Mongolian Nepali Norwegian Oriya Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese Punjabi Romanian Russian Sanskrit Scottish Serbian Sindhi Sinhalese Slovak Slovenian Somali Spanish Sundanese Swahili Swedish Taiwanese Tamil Telugu Thai Tibetan Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Uzbek Vietnamese Welsh Zulu Login Forgot your password? Sign in Need an account? Click here to Register. Sign In with Learn Kashmiri Kashmiri Help - Ask Kashmiri Keyboard Kashmiri Alphabets a-z Language Converters Dictionary Learn Kashmiri Kashmiri Help - Ask Kashmiri Keyboard Kashmiri Alphabets a-z Language Converters Dictionary Learn Kashmiri Building Names in Kashmiri Bridge in Kashmiri × Flag Content/Answer Name: Email: Reporting Content Answer Comments: What is Bridge called in Kashmiri with how to pronounce and transliteration in English? Category : Building Names English : Bridge English Pronounciation : Bridge : In All Languages Found useful share Do you know Bridge in Kashmiri Add Your Answer : Answer * : Text Audio You are not logged in. Please Login / Register to post answer Disable Keyboard Enable Keyboard Found whatiscalled.com useful? Spread the word. English to Kashmiri Cafeteria Factory Temple Hotel Bridge Museum Mall Castle Fortress Related Building Names In English To Kashmiri View all Building Names in English to Kashmiri Apple in Kashmiri ژوٗنٛٹھ Apricot in Kashmiri Chhiear Avocado in Kashmiri Cranberry in Kashmiri Tereal Pineapple in Kashmiri punchitipul Quince in Kashmiri Bum choonth Asafoetida in Kashmiri Yangu Celery in Kashmiri Cinnamon in Kashmiri dalcȳn Curry Leaves in Kashmiri tej pata Nutmeg in Kashmiri Zaaphal Beetroot in Kashmiri chogander munji Lettuce in Kashmiri Hakh Ajwain in Kashmiri Javeed Parsley in Kashmiri daaniwal Sesame Seeds in Kashmiri tael Kale in Kashmiri haakh Barley in Kashmiri wushke Oats in Kashmiri Washukh Chia Seeds in Kashmiri babri boul
