=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Steven Furtick - Wikipedia]
In 2012, in response to a need of mentorship for 1,000 students in area schools, Furtick launched an outreach program at Elevation Church called the M1 Initiative.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Furtick

[Over 1,600 Elevation Church Volunteers Answer Call to Mentor Students]
Sep 25, 2012 · Furtick made the initiative announcement two weeks ago with plans to connect 1,000 mentors to serve and empower 1,000 children for one year in Charlotte area schools. More than 1,600 responded, according to Jamie Waldron, who is the church's director of outreach programs. "I am absolutely in love with our church.
URL: https://www.christianpost.com/news/over-1600-elevation-church-volunteers-answer-call-to-mentor-students.html

[Concerns raised as anti-gay Elevation Church makes inroads at local schools]
Dec 21, 2012 · School officials, meanwhile, said their volunteer engagement policies protect students from unwanted religious promotion. The Southern Baptist-affiliated Elevation Church, which attracts over 10,000 weekly worshipers at several locations across the Charlotte area, will use its “M1 Initiative” to bring 1,000 mentors into area schools.
URL: https://qnotescarolinas.com/concerns-raised-as-anti-gay-elevation-church-makes-inroads-at-local-schools/

[12 Facts About Steven Furtick - FactSnippet]
6. Steven Furtick was named to Oprah's SuperSoul100 list of visionaries and influential leaders in 2016. 7. In 2012, in response to a need of mentorship for 1,000 students in area schools, Steven Furtick launched an outreach program at Elevation Church called the M1 Initiative. 8.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-steven-furtick.html

[Grokipedia: Elevation Church]
Elevation Church was founded by pastor Steven Furtick in Charlotte, North Carolina, launching its first worship service on February 5, 2006, which drew 121 ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Elevation_Church


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Steven Furtick - Wikipedia] ---
Larry Stevens Furtick Jr. (born February 19, 1980), known professionally as Steven Furtick, is an American pastor, author, singer, and composer of Elevation Worship. He is the founder and general overseer of Elevation Church, based in Charlotte, North Carolina.


--- [Over 1,600 Elevation Church Volunteers Answer Call to Mentor Students] ---
Over 1,600 Elevation Church Volunteers Answer Call to Mentor Students More than 1,600 members of Elevation Church in Charlotte, N.C., responded to the plea from their pastor, Steven Furtick, to become mentors for the youth in their communities. Troubling statistics that include showing a high rate of Charlotte-area students who do not graduate from high school prompted the church's initiative. "I know the importance of mentoring. My mother connected me with a mentor when I was a child to encourage me after the tragic loss of my father. She knew I would need someone to encourage me when so many others said I would never go anywhere, or amount to anything," said Charlotte's Mayor Pro Tem Patrick Cannon, who shared his support for the "M1 Initiative" in a recent video shown to the more than 12,000 in attendance at seven Elevation Church locations. Furtick made the initiative announcement two weeks ago with plans to connect 1,000 mentors to serve and empower 1,000 children for one year in Charlotte area schools. More than 1,600 responded, according to Jamie Waldron, who is the church's director of outreach programs. "I am absolutely in love with our church. To see that the people of our church step up and move toward an issue rather than say, 'You know what, that's too bad, those people could use some help' is amazing," Waldron told The Christian Post. She explained that one of the most troubling education statistics for the Charlotte area was that 25 percent of the students do not graduate from high school. Furtick and his church aim to lower the percentage. The church is now training the volunteers who pledged to serve for one year in the areas of academics and life issues. Elevation is partnering with 14 local organizations to equip, train, and connect mentors to students. A Child's Place, Right Moves for Youth, Communities in Schools Mecklenburg and Gaston Counties, Children's Attention Home (Rock Hill), and York County Schools are among the partner organizations. "We have always said we want to be a blessing to our city and support our leaders with a volunteer force they can count on," said Furtick. He had read about the critical need for mentors in the Charlotte area and said he believed his church could meet that need. Waldron said that witnessing how people that were once in need of a mentor themselves are now mentoring is what has impressed her most. "The stories that have come out of this have been amazing. Hearing stories about people that had some hard times in their youth and were helped by someone coming alongside them are now using their experience to help others," she said. During Furtick's recent release of his book, Greater, church volunteers filled more than 2,200 book bags filled with school supplies, one bag for every book sold. Students throughout the U.S. are receiving the bags. Hundreds more are being sent to the gulf region in the wake of Hurricane Isaac. Last April, Elevation succeeded in serving more than 102,000 hours and giving more than $1,038,000 to nonprofits in Charlotte in what was called the Orange Initiative. "I know our city is better off because of Elevation Church. This initiative sets the bar for the rest of the community and I am grateful for your vision and commitment to our city," said Mayor Anthony Foxx in discussing the year-long volunteer effort.


--- [Concerns raised as anti-gay Elevation Church makes inroads at local schools] ---
in this story Safety concerns for LGBT youth Elevation partners respond LGBT issues not addressed Is homosexuality a sin? extra coverage CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Efforts by a local anti-gay megachurch to commit 1,000 volunteers for school mentoring has raised eyebrows among some concerned with the well-being and safety of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) young people. School officials, meanwhile, said their volunteer engagement policies protect students from unwanted religious promotion. The Southern Baptist-affiliated Elevation Church, which attracts over 10,000 weekly worshipers at several locations across the Charlotte area, will use its “M1 Initiative” to bring 1,000 mentors into area schools. The church announced the initiative in September and The Charlotte Observer recently reported on the effort. Originally created as a church plant in 2006 by the North Carolina Baptist State Convention, Elevation has been named one of fastest-growing churches in the nation. Its founding pastor is the youthful Steven Furtick, who has described anti-gay Dallas, Texas, preacher T.D. Jakes as his most “favorite preacher in the world.” The church made waves in 2009 when it hosted a guest appearance by outed and disgraced pastor Ted Haggard and his wife Gayle. The event, at which Furtick called homosexuality a sin publicly for the first time, spurned some gay members who had been attracted to the church’s more modern, seemingly-inclusive style. Safety concerns for LGBT youth Steve Knight, a Gastonia parent and straight ally who has worked for conservative evangelical organizations in the past, said the mentoring initiative is concerning. Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter: [mc4wp_form id=”54158″] “If they are put into contact with LGBT students, coming from a position of authority…then those interactions between students and Elevation volunteers could lead to conversations about sexuality and provide an opportunity for them to share their conservative, anti-gay theology with these kids,” said Knight. “That would concern me, as a parent of three kids who don’t want to be evangelized at school and certainly don’t want to be told that they or their friends who may be LGBT are in some way wrong or deficient.” School officials should be wary of projects like Elevation’s, Knight said. His past experience in evangelical movements has taught him many of these efforts often have an “ultimate motivation” to “reach the ‘lost'” through evangelism or conversion. The church itself says it wants to use the mentoring initiative to “embrace the truth of God’s power” and “empower one child at a time.” “I think parents and school officials should be cautious when considering an ‘offer’ such as this one from any religious or faith-based group,” he said. “What is their real agenda?” Knight said Elevation’s outreach into the schools in combination with its more modern appearance and style could attract unknowing LGBT students into spiritually-hostile situations. He described Elevation as “hipper, cooler packaging on old, tired, conservative, anti-gay theology.” Fears that LGBT students might be drawn to Elevation by church members’ mentoring volunteerism is real. In a video announcing the M1 Initiative, Charlotte Mayor Pro Tem Patrick Cannon introduces one Elevation member who did bring his students to the church. “Imagine the impact you could make if you mentored just one child,” Cannon says in the video. “Ryan Frankeny has been mentoring his boys for two years. He started bringing them to church during ‘Soul Detox.’ … There are thousands of students just like these boys who need mentors.” Once an LGBT student is involved at Elevation, the church’s doctrines could come back to haunt them. “I think these evangelical mega-churches do attract LGBT and pro-LGBT people,” said Knight, “who are ultimately disappointed when they discover the church’s conservative stance on these issues.” Rodney Tucker, executive director of Time Out Youth, a local LGBT youth service organization, declined to comment specifically on Elevation’s mentoring program. He did agree that the diversity of all students, including LGBT young people, should be respected by school volunteers. Elevation partner, CMS responds Elevation’s M1 Initiative will work with a variety of organizations, including Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) and Communities in Schools of Charlotte-Mecklenburg (CIS), a local affiliate of a national organization that describes itself as “the nation’s leading dropout prevention organization.” CMS Director of Communications Tahira Stalberte told qnotes via email that the district has a variety of partnerships designed to support students including mentoring and tutoring programs and others providing resource for families. Stalberte said efforts are made to ensure partnerships match the needs of students and the district. “As it relates to our faith-based partners, it is unacceptable for volunteers to use their relationship and interaction with students to promote their religious beliefs,” Stalberte added. “Individuals who violate this practice, will no longer have one-on-one access to students through our partnership program.” Additionally, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools has LGBT-inclusive anti-bullying and anti-harassment policies. LGBT students are also protected from bullying under a statewide law passed in 2009. Gina Salvati, Communities In Schools’ vice president of development and community affairs, told qnotes her organization’s volunteer policies are consistent with those of CMS. The group is also committed to diversity, she said. “We do not allow folks to…impart their specific or particular beliefs because we have to be respectful of our students and their families,” Salvati said. Salvati also read a portion of her group’s volunteer policy, similar to other groups’, like the YMCA of Greater Charlotte’s, non-discrimination statements: “CIS recognizes that individual families and communities are diverse. CIS values and respects this diversity and chooses to be inclusive through its acceptance of all individuals regardless of age, race, gender, religion or cultural identity. CIS, while not adhering to any doctrine, is committed to diversity. This includes asserting that all individuals, without exception, are intrinsically valuable.” CIS’ volunteer orientations include exercises exploring cultural diversity. Volunteers discuss examples of student scenarios, factors influencing them and their responses in small group discussions. Sexual orientation, Salvati said, is included in one scenario. “We serve kids of all shapes and sizes, all backgrounds, ethnicities and all sexual orientations,” she said. “All kids deserve to have a quality education and get what they need to be successful in school. We don’t only say that in world, but we practice that.” Elevation staffer: We don’t address LGBT issues Elevation has invested heavily in their support for local schools and mentoring projects. According to The Charlotte Observer, Elevation Church recently donated $7,000 to CIS of Gaston County. The church has also supported CIS of Charlotte-Mecklenburg, giving at the $62,000 to CIS’ Safe Journey program, according to the church’s 2011 annual report. Tonia Bendickson, Elevation Church’s director of communications, told qnotes via email that the church’s mentoring program is intended to support all students, regardless of their background. The church, Bendickson said, has screened all of their volunteers. “We looked specifically for people who would be warm, and non-judgmental,” she said. “Instead of assuming the worst-case scenario, my hope is that you will soon be hearing from LGBT students who say they have been blessed by a relationship with an Elevation Church mentor.” Bendickson said the church’s training guide addresses sensitivity, though she admitted they do not specifically address LGBT issues. “These students come from different backgrounds, societies, cultures, and lifestyles,” the manual reads, according to Bendisckson. “Take time to learn about what is different and honor it. A lack of understanding can result in judgement, from there all doors can be closed to developing a trusting relationship. Remember that you were once the age of the student that you are mentoring. What questions did you have? What interests, anxieties, and what was important to you? This will help nurture a ground of good conversation and growth in the relationship you have with the student.” “Though we didn’t directly address LGBT students in our training manual, we do want to be a support to ALL our students no matter what background they come from or what challenges they are facing,” Bendickson said. “Our goal is to guide and support, and not to judge.” The training manual also reminds volunteers to “reflect the heart of the organizations.” “I believe that if you listen to Pastor Steven’s sermons online, you will hear his heart to love people right where they are,” Bendickson said. “You will never hear him preach a message of condemnation.” Bendickson also said Elevation wants to be a “life-giving church that is a welcome, safe place for ALL people to come and hear the gospel preached in a powerful, relevant way.” Is homosexuality a sin? Bendickson did not reply to several direct questions on whether Elevation considers homosexuality to be a sin. As an affiliate of the Southern Baptist Convention, the church is prohibited from acting to “affirm, approve, or endorse homosexual behavior.” Similar language from the North Carolina Baptist State Convention prohibits churches from acting to “affirm, approve, endorse, promote, support or bless homosexual behavior.” (See our extra coverage below for more on the Southern Baptist’s and North Carolina Baptist’s positions on homosexuality.) “I can’t imagine Jesus answering your question simply, yes or no — and I can’t do that for you either,” she said. “I love my Jesus and my church too much to boil down a question that is so divisive and painful for so many into black and white. We love Jesus. We love people. All people. “I was far from God when I found Elevation in 2006,” Bendickson added. “I loved Jesus, but there was sin and brokenness in my life and there still is.” She said Elevation seeks to “pierce the darknesss with the love of Christ,” saying, “And you will feel welcome here… you will also be challenged, like I am — by the truth of God’s word.” Jon Repp, an openly gay man who lives in Charlotte, has attended Elevation for some time. Unlike some other gay attendees, Repp has stuck it out with the church. “I did know and was told that because I was gay and openly gay, I would not be able to be an employee of Elevation and work for them,” said Repp, who also noted one pastor also told him the church does believe homosexuality is a sin. Repp said the church is the one place where he has felt comfortable worshipping, despite the church’s theological positions on homosexuality. “Elevation, for as much as they might ultimately believe this is a sin…the point for me at the end of the day is that I always felt loved at Elevation,” Repp said. “I never felt discriminated by it directly. Ultimately, I had to ask myself was this really important?” Repp added, “At some level, it does bother me that they disagree [and] that I couldn’t be an employee because I’m gay and that the church might believe I am wrong, but then again I’m sure there are many things I believe they are wrong about…I don’t see it as an issue. To me the greater purpose is love. As long as you learn to love yourself and respect yourself, someone else’s opinion shouldn’t bother me.” Though Repp is comfortable with the church, he said he does recognize some young people might not have the maturity to handle anti-gay views. “A lot of that depends on their household, their parents, their family,” he said. “I understand the concern, but if I had to choose, I would much rather have someone from Elevation than from one of the gay-affirming churches in Charlotte.” EXTRA COVERAGE: Elevation subsidizing anti-gay hate? Elevation Church’s single-largest contribution in 2011 was a $100,000 gift to the Boone, N.C.-based Samaritan’s Purse, an international Christian charity run by the Rev. Franklin Graham, son of North Carolina evangelist Billy Graham. Franklin Graham has a number of outspoken, anti-LGBT views and he has used his organization to advocate against LGBT equality. Samaritan’s Purse contributed $150,200 of the total $272,593.70 cost of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association’s series of newspaper and TV advertisements supporting an anti-LGBT state constitutional amendment passed by voters on May 8, 2012. The day after the North Carolina amendment vote, President Barack Obama announced his support for full equality in marriage for same-sex couples. Graham responded by saying the president had “shaken his fist” at God. Graham has also said equality for LGBT people “will be to our peril and to the destruction of this nation.” Asserting that “[t]here is no room for us to consider gay marriage or same-sex marriage,” Graham has also said that equality for LGBT families “takes the family away and there is no way you can have a family with two females or two males, if you just think biologically how God made us our plumbing is completely different.” Graham also described his effort to stem LGBT equality as a “religious war” on a Samaritan’s Purse webpage supporting this year’s controversy over Chick-fil-A’s millions-of-dollars-worth of anti-gay funding. And, in a column originally written for The Washington Post and published on Samaritan’s Purse’s website, Graham said gay “sin” had caused HIV. In response to U.S. Sen. Jesse Helms’ insistence that HIV/AIDS was a “homosexual disease,” Graham related that he “…pointed him to Scripture where Jesus was always full of compassion, even if a person’s sin had caused their circumstances.” Southern, N.C. Baptists on homosexuality The Southern Baptist Convention and the North Carolina Baptist State Convention have both issued strong position statements against LGBT equality. Though the word “Baptist” does not appear in its name, Elevation Church is affiliated with both groups and was started as a church plant by the state convention in 2006. To a large extent, Elevation has depicted itself as more inclusive, but given its association with both religious denominations, decidedly pro-LGBT theological positions from Elevation’s pastor or other leaders are not a likely reality. The Southern Baptist Convention says homosexuality is “is not a ‘valid alternative lifestyle'” in its official position statement on the topic. They add, “The Bible condemns it as sin.” In 1993, the Southern Baptist Convention changed its constitution to forbid churches from membership if they “act to affirm, approve, or endorse homosexual behavior.” A more strict policy was adopted by the North Carolina convention in 2006, when it voted to adopt a similar policy that also allows state convention officials to investigate individual churches which are suspected of having “knowingly act[ed] to affirm, approve, endorse, promote, support or bless homosexual behavior.” Southern Baptist and North Carolina Baptist leaders have also routinely reiterated their strong stands against LGBT equality. In 1988, the Southern Baptist Convention passed a resolution calling homosexuality an “abomination” and “a chosen lifestyle” linked to “moral decline” and that it is ”a manifestation of a depraved nature” and ”a perversion of divine standards.” In June 2012, Southern Baptists passed another resolution saying gay rights cannot be considered “civil rights.” North Carolina Baptists unanimously passed a resolution last year supporting the state’s anti-LGBT constitutional amendment. At the same time, First Baptist Church of Charlotte Pastor Mark Harris was elected state convention president. Harris has a history of anti-gay sentiments. “I just don’t buy that it’s a natural inclination,” Harris said of LGBT sexual orientations. He added, “We love the person caught in the sin of homosexuality. It’s the sin we hate.” In an interview with qnotes last year, Harris reiterated his belief that homosexuality is a choice. “I believe, if you read the book of Romans, the first chapter, you begin to understand homosexuality being a choice,” he explained. “It is a decision a person makes to give up natural relations for unnatural relations.”


--- [12 Facts About Steven Furtick - FactSnippet] ---
Steven Furtick is the founder and general overseer of Elevation Church, based in Charlotte, North Carolina. 12 Facts About Steven Furtick Steven Furtick studied at North Greenville University in communication and earned a Bachelor of Arts, then he studied at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary and earned a Master of Divinity. In 2004, Steven Furtick served as worship leader at Christ Covenant Church in Shelby, North Carolina, a Baptist Church. Steven Furtick speaks at events all over the world including the 2011 Global Leadership Summit hosted by Bill Hybels, the C3 Conference 2012 hosted by Ed Young Jr. Steven Furtick participated in The Elephant Room 1 and The Elephant Room 2 hosted by James MacDonald. Steven Furtick was named to Oprah's SuperSoul100 list of visionaries and influential leaders in 2016. In 2012, in response to a need of mentorship for 1,000 students in area schools, Steven Furtick launched an outreach program at Elevation Church called the M1 Initiative. Steven Furtick has committed to donating 12 percent of Elevation Church's giving to support outreach efforts nationally and globally. Steven Furtick has participated in various philanthropic campaigns, donating clothes and furniture to families in need. In 2013, Steven Furtick has declined to answer questions regarding his salary, his tax-free housing allowance, and how much he makes from books and speaking fees, and how the church is governed. Elevation has confirmed that Steven Furtick's salary is set by a Board of Overseers composed of other megachurch pastors, who vote on his salary based on a compensation study conducted by an outside firm, and that Steven Furtick does not vote on his own salary. On October 2,2020, Trinity Broadcasting Network began airing programming from Steven Furtick, replacing the Kenneth Copeland ministries program "Believer's Voice of Victory".


--- [Grokipedia: Elevation Church] ---
Elevation Church is an evangelical non-denominationalmegachurch headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, founded on February 5, 2006, by pastor Steven Furtick, who began with an initial service attended by 121 people.[1] The church has expanded to multiple campuses, reporting weekly attendance exceeding 26,000 as of recent years, and operates ministries focused on small group connections, outreach, and contemporary worship music produced by its affiliated group, Elevation Worship.[2] While achieving rapid growth and cultural influence through energetic services and media production, Elevation Church has drawn significant criticism from theological observers for teachings that veer toward the prosperity gospel, manipulative baptism tactics involving staged volunteer responses, and a leadership style prioritizing personal empowerment over scriptural orthodoxy.[2][3][4] These controversies highlight tensions between its seeker-friendly appeal and adherence to traditional evangelical doctrine.[2] Founding and History Establishment in 2006 Elevation Church was founded by pastor Steven Furtick in Charlotte, North Carolina, launching its first worship service on February 5, 2006, which drew 121 attendees to the atrium of Providence High School.[1][5] The service marked the start of a non-denominational evangelical congregation without formal ties to established denominations at inception, though Furtick's prior training at Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary informed its evangelical orientation.[6]Furtick, who relocated to Charlotte with his wife Holly and a small group of supporters, envisioned a church dedicated to reaching unchurched individuals by raising them "to life in Christ" through relatable preaching and modern worship experiences.[7][8] Early efforts prioritized evangelism via Furtick's energetic sermons blending biblical exposition with contemporary cultural references, attracting those disconnected from traditional religious settings.[9][10]This foundational approach spurred quick expansion, with weekly attendance exceeding 1,000 by 2007, fueled by word-of-mouth outreach and media-savvy presentation rather than institutional partnerships.[5] The church's initial operations relied on portable setups in rented school facilities, emphasizing accessibility and community engagement over fixed infrastructure.[11] Expansion to Multi-Site Model Elevation Church began implementing a multi-site model in the early 2010s to manage surging attendance and propagate its message efficiently beyond a single location. Starting with 121 attendees at its inaugural service on February 5, 2006, the church aimed for 10,000 weekly participants by 2010, a target it exceeded as average attendance surpassed 10,000 by 2012 across expanding venues in the Charlotte area.[12][13]Central to this strategy was the video preaching format, broadcasting live sermons from the primary Ballantyne campus—led by the founding pastor—to satellite sites, thereby enabling growth without deploying full pastoral teams to each outpost. This approach, which prioritized centralized teaching for doctrinal consistency and cost-effective scaling, supported the addition of campuses like those in 2011 and a permanent University City site in 2015.[14][15] By 2016, nine locations accommodated roughly 14,000 weekly attendees, rising to over 17,000 by mid-decade as the network concentrated on regional Charlotte-area extensions.[16][10]The model extended digitally via online streaming, fostering international participation alongside physical sites. In 2007, the church formed Elevation Worship as its in-house music ministry, which evolved into a prolific producer of albums that bolstered attendance through cultural appeal and financial resources for further site development.[17] Recent Developments and Denominational Changes In June 2023, Elevation Church voluntarily withdrew its affiliation with the Southern Baptist Convention, effective immediately, as announced in a letter to SBC leadership following the denomination's annual meeting.[18] The decision emphasized continued cooperation with individual SBC churches despite the exit, underscoring the church's emphasis on operational independence.[19]By 2024, Elevation Church expanded to 19 campuses across 17 U.S. locations and two in Canada, including recent additions like a permanent site in Columbia, South Carolina, while planning further constructions in Raleigh and other areas.[20] This multi-site model supports ongoing in-person attendance, supplemented by hybrid services featuring weekly live streaming and on-demand access to worship and sermons.[21]Financial reports for 2023 indicated $108.4 million in total tithes and offerings, comprising $97.28 million in regular tithes and $11.12 million from the year-end offering, reflecting the scale of its megachurch operations.[22] These funds supported campus maintenance, staff, and outreach initiatives, with the church maintaining non-denominational status post-SBC withdrawal.[23] Leadership and Governance Steven Furtick's Role and Background Steven Furtick was born on February 19, 1980, in Moncks Corner, South Carolina, where he grew up and sensed a divine call to ministry at age 16, prompting a vision to establish a church in a major city.[24] He pursued education at North Greenville University, earning a Bachelor of Arts in communications, followed by a Master of Divinity from Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.[24][12]Before launching Elevation Church, Furtick gained experience in youth ministry, influenced by his own conversion to Christianity at age 16 and subsequent involvement in evangelistic efforts during his college years.[25] In February 2006, at age 26, he founded the church in Charlotte, North Carolina, initially gathering with a small group of about eight attendees in living rooms and school auditoriums.[26]Furtick serves as the founder and senior pastor of Elevation Church, exercising central authority through vision-casting that the organization describes as originating from God and essential to its unity, with members committed to defending this directive over broader input.[27] His preaching employs a dynamic, conversational style marked by high energy, personal anecdotes, and emphasis on motivational application of biblical texts, contributing to the church's appeal among younger audiences.[28] In 2010, he published Sun Stand Still, a book advocating "audacious faith" through bold prayers modeled on Joshua's plea for the sun to stand still, drawing from personal and scriptural examples to encourage pursuit of seemingly impossible outcomes.[29][30]Furtick has been married to Holly Furtick since 2002; the couple has three children—Elijah, Graham, and Abbey—and resides in Charlotte.[31] Board of Overseers and Accountability Structures Elevation Church established its Board of Overseers, consisting of external evangelical pastors, to provide advisory oversight on major decisions such as pastoral compensation and strategic direction, rather than day-to-day operational control.[16] The board has included figures like Jack Graham of Prestonwood Baptist Church, Kevin Gerald of Champions Centre, Stovall Weems of Celebration Church, and Perry Noble of NewSpring Church, selected for their leadership in large congregations.[32] This structure determines Furtick's salary and housing allowance based on compensation studies comparing similar megachurch leaders, aiming to align with industry benchmarks.[16] Church leadership has cited the board as a mechanism for external accountability, particularly as the organization expanded beyond its founding in 2006 to a multi-campus model with thousands in weekly attendance.[33]The governance evolved toward formalized oversight amid rapid growth, transitioning from founder-led informality to incorporating this external advisory body, though it lacks congregational voting or local elder input typical in many evangelical churches.[34] Elevation Church holds accreditation from the Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability (ECFA), which mandates standards for board governance, financial transparency, and stewardship, with the organization undergoing annual audits to verify compliance.[35] Proponents argue this setup mitigates risks of unchecked leadership in a high-profile, celebrity-influenced ministry by drawing on peers' experience, yet the board's composition of fellow megachurch pastors raises questions about peer-group insularity rather than independent scrutiny.[36]Critics, including Christian watchdog groups, contend the board's advisory role and absence of public transparency undermine effective accountability, as decision processes remain opaque and independent from local membership oversight.[36] For instance, financial reporting lacks detailed breakdowns of executive perks or asset use, fueling perceptions of limited checks against potential excesses in a model prioritizing visionary leadership over distributed authority.[37] Observers note that while the structure claims to prevent doctrinal or ethical lapses, its reliance on non-local, non-binding input may not sufficiently counter the dynamics of a centralized, pastor-centric organization, as evidenced by ongoing debates over fiscal practices despite ECFA status.[38][39] Organizational Hierarchy and Volunteer Involvement Elevation Church maintains a centralized leadershipstructure where founder and lead pastor Steven Furtick establishes the overarching vision, which is executed through campus pastors responsible for local implementation across its multi-site network. Campus pastors oversee ministry directors, such as those for eKidz and guest experience, who in turn manage specialized teams including production, worship, and data operations. This top-down flow prioritizes alignment with Furtick's directives, with executive staff handling administrative functions like finance and communications to support operational scalability.[40][7]The church's operations depend extensively on unpaid volunteers organized into eTeams, which handle critical functions such as greeting guests, managing audio-visual production, leading worship, and facilitating children's programs like eKidz. These teams enable the church to conduct services, baptisms, and events at multiple physical campuses and online platforms without proportional increases in paid staff, positioning volunteer service as a core expression of faith participation and personal spiritual development.[41][41]Volunteer integration begins with e101 orientation sessions, which introduce team roles and functions, followed by placement based on skills and interests. Leadership training, detailed in resources like eGroup manuals, emphasizes mentoring co-leaders to foster multiplication, with group sizes targeted at 8-12 participants and reporting mechanisms to track engagement metrics including attendance and salvations. This approach underscores quantitative growth indicators—such as weekly eKidz attendance of 2,487 and 619 reported salvations in 2024—alongside qualitative community-building through the "4G's" framework of gifts, giving, groups, and growth.[41][42][43] Theological Beliefs and Practices Core Doctrinal Statements Elevation Church holds that the Bible is the inspired Word of God, authored by humans under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, constituting truth without error and applicable to contemporary life.[44] This scriptural authority underpins all doctrinal positions, with the church affirming its sufficiency for faith and practice without reliance on supplementary creeds or traditions.[44]Central to its theology is the doctrine of the Trinity, positing one eternal God existing in three co-equal persons: the Father, described as all-powerful, all-knowing, holy, loving, and faithful; the Son, Jesus Christ, who is fully God and fully human, lived sinlessly, died as atonement for sin, and rose from the dead; and the Holy Spirit, who indwells believers, convicts of sin, guides into truth, provides comfort, and bestows spiritual gifts for service.[44] Humanity, created in God's image, is inherently separated from Him by sin, rendering self-effort insufficient for reconciliation.[44]Salvation is presented as an unmerited gift from God, received exclusively through faith in Jesus Christ's substitutionary death and bodily resurrection, which defeats sin and death and offers eternal life to all who repent and confess Him as Lord.[44][45] Post-salvation eternity involves conscious existence either in heaven with God for the redeemed or in hell for the unrepentant, separated by unresolved sin.[44] The church functions as a unified body of believers committed to proclaiming the gospel and adhering to Christ's commands, operating autonomously without denominational oversight to prioritize direct scriptural application and personal transformation in faith.[44][7] Worship Style and Preaching Emphasis Elevation Church services feature contemporary worship music performed by its dedicated ministry, Elevation Worship, integrated with advanced production elements such as dynamic lighting, large-scale video screens, and synchronized multimedia to create a high-energy, immersive atmosphere designed to draw in attendees and facilitate emotional connection.[46][21] These elements, common in multisite megachurch models, prioritize accessibility and spectacle to attract unchurched individuals while sustaining engagement among regulars.[38]Typical Sunday services, held multiple times across campuses and streamed online, structure around an opening worship set lasting 20-30 minutes, followed by a 30-40 minute sermon delivered via video from the Charlotte headquarters or live at select locations, and concluding with response segments inviting altar calls, prayers, or commitment cards for salvation decisions or ministry involvement.[47][48] This format emphasizes flow and momentum to build toward personal application rather than extended liturgical rites.Steven Furtick's preaching adopts a storytelling method, blending scriptural narratives—often from Old Testament figures—with modern analogies to underscore personal potential and divine empowerment, prominently featuring a "greater things" motif derived from John 14:12, where Jesus promises believers will perform works surpassing his own through the Holy Spirit's agency.[49][50] Sermons like those in his "Greater" series motivate listeners toward audacious faith and self-improvement, attributing breakthroughs to surrendered ambition aligned with God's vision.[51]While this emphasis on motivational theology correlates with Elevation's rapid growth and high retention—evidenced by attendance exceeding 20,000 weekly across 20+ campuses—it has elicited concerns from Reformed and cessationist critics that the focus on individual greatness risks subordinating Christ's atoning centrality to humanistic achievement narratives, potentially fostering a therapeutic rather than transformative gospel orientation.[3][52] Such critiques, rooted in scriptural primacy over experiential hype, highlight tensions between seeker-sensitive strategies and doctrinal depth in contemporary evangelicalism.[53] Baptism and Conversion Practices Elevation Church conducts baptisms exclusively for individuals who have professed personal faith in Jesus Christ, adhering to the practice of believer's baptism by full immersion as an outward symbol of inward spiritual transformation and commitment to follow Christ.[54][55] This rite is positioned not as the means of salvation but as a public testimony of forgiveness of sins and entry into new life in Christ, drawing from New Testament examples such as those in Acts where baptisms followed immediate faith responses.[54] Unlike traditions involving infant baptism, Elevation reserves baptism for those capable of conscious decision, offering child dedications separately as parental commitments to Christian upbringing without sacramental implications.[56]The church promotes baptisms during live worship services across its multi-campus model, utilizing portable immersion pools installed on-site to facilitate prompt participation by attendees responding to altar calls or salvation decisions.[54] This approach emphasizes immediacy, encouraging new converts to declare their faith without mandatory preparatory classes or extended counseling periods, framing the act as an authentic, momentum-driven expression of conversion tied directly to the service's evangelistic climax.[57] Church materials describe it as a celebratory milestone in the believer's journey, with volunteers assisting to ensure smooth execution, often completing immersions in 30 to 45 seconds to maintain service flow while prioritizing the individual's testimony.[54]Empirical data from church reports indicate high volumes of such baptisms, reflecting a focus on quantifiable conversion outcomes. For instance, Elevation documented 1,044 baptisms over two weeks during a targeted 2010s campaign inspired by Acts 2:41, and annual figures have included 2,410 in 2011 and 1,725 in a reported year prior to 2023.[58][59][18] More recently, the 2025 annual report highlighted over 4,000 baptisms celebrated in the preceding period, alongside event-specific peaks like 589 across campuses in a single 2021 weekend, underscoring patterns of elevated participation linked to service-driven decisions.[43][60] These numbers, tracked meticulously by the church, align with its evangelistic metrics but have varied year-to-year, from hundreds to thousands annually since 2006.[57][59] Ministries and Outreach Efforts LOVE Week and Community Service Initiatives Elevation Church's LOVE Week, initiated in 2010, mobilizes thousands of volunteers annually for local service projects aimed at demonstrating Christian love through practical aid, such as home repairs, meal preparation, and distribution of hygiene kits in collaboration with nonprofits like Habitat for Humanity and Crisis Assistance Ministry.[61][62] The event, typically held in late July or early August, emphasizes saturation of the Charlotte metropolitan area with acts of service, including painting homes and partnering on food insecurity initiatives, framed by church leadership as evangelism via tangible community support rather than solely verbal proclamation.[63][64]In its 2019 iteration, the 10th annual LOVE Week logged over 110,000 volunteer hours across seven days (July 27 to August 3), with participants contributing to home builds and meal kits that directly aided underserved families.[62] Partnerships with organizations like Crisis Assistance Ministry have involved over 500 volunteers in single years, supporting distribution of clothing and household goods valued at more than $6.3 million annually to communities where 41% of beneficiaries are children facing economic hardship.[65][66] These efforts yield measurable local impacts, such as enhanced access to basic needs, though church reports do not independently verify long-term beneficiary outcomes beyond immediate service metrics.[67]Complementing LOVE Week, Dream Week serves as a January-focused extension, often aligned with Martin Luther King Jr. Day (e.g., January 19-25), where volunteers partner with nonprofits to fulfill specific community "dreams" like facility upgrades for education and dignity-focused programs, including potential playground constructions or workspace renovations for local charities.[68][69] This initiative prioritizes targeted support for organizations addressing inequality, mobilizing eTeams for hands-on projects that extend the church's service model into winter months, though detailed volunteer hour tallies or beneficiary counts remain less quantified in public records compared to LOVE Week.[70] Overall, these programs position volunteerism as a core expression of faith, with cumulative outreach exceeding 1 million hours across two decades, underscoring a pattern of high-volume local engagement.[71] Global and Digital Outreach Elevation Church extends its ministry internationally primarily through digital platforms and strategic partnerships rather than establishing physical campuses abroad. Its online streaming services, accessible via website, mobile app, and platforms like YouTube, broadcast live worship and sermons to a global audience, with over 450,000 viewers tuning in live on Sundays and sermons garnering more than 750,000 weekly views as of early 2025.[20] The church's YouTube channels, including those for main services and Elevation Worship, collectively exceed 3 million subscribers, facilitating worldwide dissemination of content focused on evangelism and personal faith growth.[72]The Elevation app, available on iOS and Android since at least 2010, enables users to access on-demand sermons, join live experiences, and engage with discussion groups, supporting remote participation from international locations.[73][74] This digital infrastructure, emphasized in church communications since its founding in 2006, claims to foster initial conversions and faith development among non-local audiences without requiring in-person attendance.[7] However, while reach metrics highlight broad exposure, independent assessments of sustained discipleship outcomes, such as follow-up conversions or long-term community integration, remain limited to self-reported testimonies rather than empirical tracking.[67]For global engagement beyond digital means, Elevation partners with over 300 organizations addressing needs in education, emergency response, family empowerment, and hunger relief across multiple countries, providing resources, volunteers, and support for missions.[7] These collaborations, detailed in annual outreach reports, focus on aid and evangelism in regions without Elevation's physical presence, with church leaders attributing "life transformations" to such efforts in videos and publications from 2024 onward.[75] Unlike models with international branches, this approach relies on allied entities for on-the-ground implementation, prioritizing scalable content distribution—such as sermons integrated with music from Elevation Worship—for indirect worldwide influence.[76] The absence of owned overseas facilities underscores a strategy favoring technological leverage over infrastructural expansion, though critics note potential gaps in verifiable, localized doctrinal depth compared to high-volume viewership.[20] Financial Allocation to Outreach Elevation Church designates 12% of undesignated tithes and offerings for allocation to outreach efforts, with the remaining funds directed toward operational expenses, staff salaries, and facility maintenance.[77][67] This policy, consistently applied as of the 2023 audited financial statements, supports both local community initiatives and global missions, reflecting the church's stated commitment to resource multiplication through targeted giving.[35]In 2023, the church reported total revenue from tithes and offerings exceeding $108 million, comprising $97.28 million in regular contributions and $11.12 million from the year-end offering.[78][79] Under the 12% policy, this equates to approximately $13 million allocated to outreach partners for that year, funding efforts reported as serving over 300 partners across local, national, and international scopes.[77][43]Financial transparency is maintained through annual independent audits by external accounting firms, such as those conducted for the December 31, 2023, consolidated statements, which verify the designation and flow of outreach funds while noting no material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting.[77] These reports, publicly available on the church's website, emphasize empirical stewardship by detailing how undesignated giving sustains both internal operations—totaling assets of $319 million as of year-end 2023—and external impact, without reliance on designated gifts for core outreach commitments.[77][20] Controversies and Criticisms Theological and Doctrinal Critiques Conservative evangelical critics have charged Steven Furtick's teachings at Elevation Church with promoting a man-centered gospel that elevates personal potential and self-empowerment over God's sovereignty and human depravity.[80][4] This approach, they contend, interprets Scripture through a lens of self-application, such as framing David's confrontation with Goliath as overcoming personal fears rather than reliance on divine power, thereby shifting focus from Christ's redemptive work to individual achievement.[80][4] For instance, Furtick has stated, "It's one thing to know who God is to you, but who are you to you?"—a rhetorical emphasis critics view as prioritizing self-perception over biblical transformation through repentance and faith.[80]Furtick's endorsements of positive confession and declarations have drawn accusations of Word of Faith influences, including notions that verbal affirmations can alter reality or that human faith limits divine action.[3][2] Statements like "If you want to change the direction of your life, change the declaration of your lips" align with this paradigm, suggesting believers possess inherent divine attributes akin to "little gods" capable of replicating God's creative acts.[2][3] Critics, including those from discerning ministries, highlight Furtick's associations with Word of Faith proponents such as T.D. Jakes, Joyce Meyer—whom he called "the greatest Bible teacher alive today"—and Benny Hinn as evidence of doctrinal convergence, rather than mere platform-sharing.[3][2] This extends to claims that Nazareth's "unbelief trapped God's power," inverting biblical accounts where divine sovereignty prevails regardless of human response.[3]Objections also target a perceived prosperity gospel leaning, where success, health, and material gain are portrayed as normative outcomes of bold faith, contradicting scriptural calls to self-denial and contentment amid suffering.[4][2] Furtick's encouragement to "believe big" for personal breakthroughs is seen as blurring the God-human distinction, with phrases like "I am God Almighty" implying believers' intrinsic divinity over creaturely dependence.[4] Such emphases contribute to critiques of diminishing core gospel elements: Furtick's sermons rarely address sin, repentance, or hell, favoring motivational content that downplays human sinfulness in favor of innate potential.[3][4]Preaching at Elevation prioritizes experiential emotionalism and pop-psychology over systematic expository Bible teaching, with critics noting a de-emphasis on deep scriptural study—"you don’t need all that fancy, special knowledge"—in favor of accessible, self-affirming messages.[80] Doctrinal irregularities include assertions like "God broke the law for love," which contravenes Christ's fulfillment of the law as described in Matthew 5:17.[2][80] In works like Unqualified, Furtick promotes unqualified leadership based on God's affirmation of personal traits, sidelining biblical pastoral qualifications rooted in character and doctrinal fidelity.[80] These patterns, per conservative evaluators, foster a theology of self-revelation over sanctification, where following Jesus "reveals who you’ve been all along" rather than conforming believers to Christ's image.[3][80] Leadership Practices and Allegations of Staging In 2014, an investigative report by NBC Charlotte revealed that Elevation Church's mass baptism events, presented as spontaneous responses to altar calls, involved significant pre-planning and coaching of participants. Church volunteers were reportedly selected in advance, instructed on when to stand and approach the stage, and trained to deliver rehearsed testimonies to encourage others in the congregation.[57] This practice aimed to amplify the perceived impact of services, with the church tracking baptism numbers as a key metric of success, though critics argued it undermined the authenticity of conversions.[81]Critiques from 2015 onward highlighted these tactics as emblematic of broader leadership practices prioritizing numerical growth and emotional momentum over organic spiritual experiences. Observers noted that internal communications and volunteer guidelines emphasized alignment with senior pastor Steven Furtick's vision, with dissent discouraged through a hierarchical structure that funneled decision-making to a small executive team.[38] Such approaches fostered what some theological analysts described as cult-like devotion, where congregants were encouraged to view Furtick as an irreplaceable visionary, potentially limiting independent biblical scrutiny or internal accountability mechanisms.[2]By 2025, patterns observed in Elevation's operations mirrored wider scrutiny of megachurch models, including allegations of volunteer pressure to participate in staged elements for morale-boosting effects. While the church defended these as motivational tools to inspire genuine faith commitments, detractors contended they reflected a performative culture that could coerce participation under the guise of communal enthusiasm, echoing concerns raised in earlier exposés without substantial operational reforms.[82][83] Financial Transparency and Lifestyle Concerns Elevation Church has reported revenues exceeding $108 million in tithes and offerings for 2023, with total assets reaching $366 million by the end of 2024, as detailed in its audited consolidated financial statements.[84] These figures reflect substantial growth driven by multi-campus operations and digital outreach, though the church, as a religious organization, is exempt from mandatory IRS Form 990 filings that would provide granular public data on executive pay and program spending breakdowns.[85]Steven Furtick's compensation is set annually by a board of overseers composed of pastors from other megachurches, a structure intended to ensure accountability but criticized for lacking independence due to the members' affiliations with similar high-revenue ministries.[86][87] The exact salary remains undisclosed, prompting calls for greater transparency amid the church's scale, where incentives for rapid expansion—such as investing in production facilities and media—could prioritize growth metrics over detailed donor reporting.[88]Lifestyle concerns intensified in 2013 when local reporting revealed Furtick building a 16,000-square-foot home on 19 acres in Waxhaw, North Carolina, with a tax-assessed value of $1.6 million, though church officials noted the purchase price was lower.[89] Furtick described the property as "a gift from God" during a sermon, attributing it to personal success rather than direct church funds, yet critics highlighted the optics of such wealth accumulation against biblical admonitions like those in 1 Timothy 6:17-19 urging the rich to avoid arrogance and prioritize generosity.[90] While the church maintains external audits by firms like CapinCrouse for overall statements, the absence of itemized disclosures on asset allocation or leadership perks has fueled skepticism about potential prosperity gospel leanings, where expansion-driven revenues might incentivize personal affluence over verifiable stewardship.[91][36] Cultural Impact and Reception Elevation Worship and Music Influence Elevation Worship, established in 2007 as the worship ministry of Elevation Church in Charlotte, North Carolina, has released over a dozen albums, including live recordings that capture the church's weekend services.[92] The ministry's music has achieved substantial commercial metrics, with total streams exceeding 3 billion across platforms as of early 2024.[93] Notable tracks like "Give Me Faith," from the 2010 album of the same name, have amassed more than 68 million Spotify streams, contributing to the group's multiple GMA Dove Awards and a Grammy for their 2021 collaborative album Old Church Basement.[94][95]The worship output has directly supported church expansion by integrating into live events such as Elevation Nights, which drew 160,000 attendees across 16 U.S. cities in 2024, often featuring full-band performances that mirror album productions.[43] Tours have grossed millions, with fall 2023 dates alone generating $4.77 million from over 90,000 tickets sold, amplifying the church's visibility and fostering a branded experience that blends congregational singing with concert-style production.[96] This approach has propelled global dissemination via streaming services, enabling songs to permeate worship sets in churches worldwide independent of physical attendance at Elevation venues.[97]Lyrically, Elevation Worship's catalog recurrently highlights motifs of triumphant faith and divine nearness, exemplified in "See A Victory" (2019), which declares overcoming through God's intervention.[98] Such emphases resonate artistically, driving emotional participation and broad appeal in contemporary evangelical settings. However, theological analysts have critiqued this orientation for favoring experiential highs and personal empowerment narratives over robust scriptural exposition, arguing it risks substituting sentiment for substantive doctrine.[99][52] These concerns, voiced by observers prioritizing confessional precision, underscore a tension between the music's motivational draw and demands for deeper confessional alignment in worship expression.[100] Media Presence and Public Perception Elevation Church maintains a substantial digital footprint, with over 3.3 million followers across its social media platforms as of the 2025 annual report, including approximately 2.3 million YouTube subscribers, 1.9 million on Facebook, and 1.9 million on Instagram.[43] The church's podcast, Elevation with Steven Furtick, garners high listener engagement, holding a 4.8-star rating from over 15,000 reviews on Apple Podcasts and featuring weekly sermons that extend the church's messaging beyond its physical campuses.[101] These channels, alongside Steven Furtick's published books on personal faith and leadership, amplify the church's reach to audiences unattached to its live services, facilitating global dissemination of its content.[102]Public perception of Elevation Church's media strategy divides along lines of innovation versus superficiality. Supporters view it as an effective model for contemporary evangelism, emphasizing seeker-sensitive approaches that prioritize accessibility to draw in unchurched individuals, as exemplified by promotional materials designed to avoid potentially alienating theological terminology.[103] Critics, however, contend that this fosters a celebrity-driven "fan club" dynamic centered on Furtick's persona rather than deep discipleship, with resources directed more toward attraction than spiritual formation for attendees.[53]A notable flashpoint occurred in March 2024, when Elevation Church's Easter invitations omitted references to the "resurrection," "Calvary," or "blood of Jesus," prompting backlash from observers who interpreted it as diluting core Christian orthodoxy to appeal broadly.[104][105] Church representatives defended the phrasing as intentional for invitation purposes while affirming doctrinal emphasis in services, yet the incident underscored perceptions of prioritizing cultural relevance over explicit biblical language.[106] This event, covered in evangelical outlets, highlighted ongoing debates about whether such media tactics enhance gospel proclamation or risk compromising theological substance.[104] Broader Evangelical Influence and Critiques Elevation Church's model has contributed to broader evangelical shifts toward multi-site campuses and high-production-value services emphasizing emotional engagement and contemporary music, influencing churches seeking rapid growth through metrics like attendance and salvations.[33][6] The church reported 4,308 baptisms in 2024, building on prior years' figures of 4,003 in 2023 and 3,188 in 2022, alongside Elevation Worship achieving over 2.3 billion streams and a Billboard Music Award win for "Same God" in 2023.[107][108][109] These elements have exported a template for evangelism-focused gatherings, with music from Elevation Worship adopted in thousands of congregations, amplifying reach through digital platforms and fostering a worship style blending rock concert aesthetics with gospel messaging.[110][111]Critics contend this approach prioritizes entertainment and quantifiable outcomes over doctrinal depth, potentially cultivating passive consumers of religious experiences rather than committed disciples shaped by rigorous biblical teaching.[4][3] Observers from reformed evangelical circles argue that the emphasis on high-energy productions and self-referential sermons risks diluting core faith tenets, as seen in accusations of man-centered theology that elevates personal potential above scriptural authority.[39][38] While salvations metrics demonstrate numerical success, skeptics highlight patterns of staged responses to inflate figures, suggesting a metrics-driven culture that may undermine genuine transformation in favor of visible enthusiasm.[112][53]Within debates on celebrity pastors, Elevation exemplifies concerns over centralized leadership lacking congregational oversight, with calls for structural reforms to enforce elder accountability and transparency in multi-campus models.[113][114] Theologians and ministry watchdogs advocate shifting from visionary-driven authority to models emphasizing mutual eldership, positing that unchecked pastoral prominence correlates with theological shallowness and financial opacity in megachurches.[115][116] This tension underscores a legacy where explosive growth coexists with warnings that entertainment-centric strategies may erode long-term spiritual maturity, prioritizing broad appeal over depth-oriented formation.[117][118]
