=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Roy Lincoln (Character) - Comic Vine]
This page is for the original Human Bomb, Roy Lincoln. For the current Human Bomb, see the Human Bomb page Origin The Human Bomb Roy Lincoln was the son of a master chemist. In the late 1930s, his ...
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/roy-lincoln/4005-47129/

[THE HUMAN BOMB - Don Markstein's Toonopedia]
The Freedom Fighters title lasted a mere 15 issues, but it did establish The Human Bomb and his cohorts as permanent fixtures in the DC Universe. Later, he, like every other DC-owned superhero who operated during World War II, was incorporated into The All-Star Squadron.
URL: https://toonopedia.com/h-bomb.htm

[Human Bomb - Cosmic Teams]
Andrew Franklin, Human Bomb II From Uncle Sam & the F. F. v.2 #1 (2007). Art by Daniel Acuña. Soon after Roy Lincoln's death, his successor was borne among the toxic rubble of the city of Blüdhaven. This city had been destroyed by the Society, the same group responsible for Roy's death. Many died but some like Andy Franklin were transformed.
URL: https://cosmicteams.com/quality/profiles/HumanBomb.html

[Human Bomb - DC CONTINUITY PROJECT]
The Human Bomb's Comic History Like quite a few of the original Quality Comics heroes, the Human Bomb's first appearance was in Police Comics #1 in 1941. He was a chemist working with his famous father on an experimental explosive compound whose lab was raided by nazi saboteurs, who swallowed the compound to keep them from acquiring it.
URL: http://www.dccontinuityproject.com/human-bomb.html

[Human Bomb - grokipedia.com]
The Human Bomb is a fictional superhero character from American comic books, originally published by Quality Comics and later integrated into the DC Comics universe upon acquisition of Quality's assets. Created by Paul Gustavson (signed as Paul Carroll), the character debuted in Police Comics #1 in August 1941, with Roy Lincoln as the inaugural incarnation—a chemist who ingested the ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Human_Bomb


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Roy Lincoln (Character) - Comic Vine] ---
- This page is for the original Human Bomb, Roy Lincoln. - For the current Human Bomb, see the Human Bomb page Origin Roy Lincoln was the son of a master chemist. In the late 1930s, his father, Professor Lincoln, perfected a super-effective explosive (“fifty times mightier than nitroglycerine”) that he named 27-QRX. When Axis agents tried to retrieve the formula, they killed Professor Lincoln. In order to protect the chemical from falling into the wrong hands, Roy Lincoln swallowed the only sample. Swallowing the sample caused the skin on Lincoln’s hands to become extremely explosive. He destroyed the lab and killed the Axis Agents He created a “Fibro-wax” lined protective suit that allowed him to easily remove his gloves. He fashioned gloves from the material for his everyday life, and a suit of it while fighting evil. Lincoln avenged his father’s murder by killing the rest of the Axis agents involved, and continued to fight crime in the guise of the Human Bomb. Creation The original Human Bomb was created for Quality Comics by Finnish comic book writer and artist Paul Gustavson, who wrote and drew the Human Bomb’s premiere story in Police Comics #1 (under the pen name “Paul Carroll”). Gustavson also created the golden age Angel for Marvel Comics during the same time period. Published in August 1941, his first appearance in the story “The Human Bomb” highlights his origin his vengeance for his father’s murder. During his run in Police Comics, the Human Bomb would gain a fiancée named Jean Adams, a super-powered sidekick in Hustace Throckmorton, and a group of followers named the Bombardiers. By Police Comics #14, Gustavson dropped the “Paul Carroll” pseudonym and published under his own name. While never getting full cover status, the Human Bomb would appear in the first 58 issues of Police Comics, until replaced by Honeybun. Character Evolution Silver Age and the End of Quality Comics In 1956, Quality Comics, the original publishers of the Human Bomb, closed shop. In 1957, DC Comics purchased the right to publish the Quality stable of characters, which included characters like the Blackhawks, Human Bomb, Plastic Man, and a host of others. Unlike Plastic Man or the Blackhawks, Human Bomb sat on the shelf until 1973, when writer Len Wein brought him and five other Quality Comics characters back in the pages of Justice League of America. Taking a page from greats like Julius Schwartz and Gardner Fox, Wein created a world called Earth-X, where the exploits of the Quality Comics characters existed. However, this world differed from Earth-1 and Earth-2 in the fact that the Nazi’s won World War II. Black Condor and the other Quality Comics characters ( Black Condor, Doll Man, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and Uncle Sam) made up a new team called the Freedom Fighters, and needed help from the Justice League of Earth-1 and the Justice Society of Earth-2. The Freedom Fighters guest appearances in the Justice League of America #107 and #108 garnered enough fan response to get them their own series. The Freedom Fighters ongoing series debuted in April of 1976 as part of the DC Explosion, a marketing initiative that led to the creation of a large number of ongoing series for DC, including Return of the New Gods and Starfire. Freedom Fighters lasted 15 issues before being cancelled. Human Bomb and the other Freedom Fighters once again resided in obscurity, outside the occasional guest appearance in DC Comics Presents and Secret Society of Super-Villains. Bronze Age and a New Origin As DC Comics entered the Bronze Age, writer Roy Thomas took ownership of DC’s stable of golden age heroes. Thomas sought to revitalize the golden age heroes, and retroactively created a new wartime super-team called the All-Star Squadron. Thomas wanted all of the golden age heroes to be part of this group. With All-Star Squadron issue #31, Thomas brought the Quality characters into Earth-2 continuity. Thomas retconned that Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters were actually from Earth-2 with the other heroes of the Justice Society of America, and that they migrated from Earth-2 to Earth-X to aid that Earth’s fight against the Nazis. In the wake of the multiverse-changing Crisis on Infinite Earths, there was no more Earth-2 or Earth-X. Thomas needed to revamp some of the histories he had just fleshed out. Now, instead of multiple Earths, the exploits of the Human Bomb, the Freedom Fighters and the All-Star Squadron happened on the same Earth, all during World War II. The Modern Age Throughout the Modern Age, the Human Bomb would continue to guest star in various series, including JSA. He would also appear as a supporting character in the series Damage, written by Tom Joyner, where he appeared as a friend to Damage’s mentor Iron Munro. In this series, however, Roy Lincoln did not wear the garb of the Human Bomb, which would contradict other stories in the DC universe at that time. The first Human Bomb was killed in Infinite Crisis #1. Key Story Arcs The Human Bomb’s Early Adventures After Roy Lincoln avenged the death of his father, he continued to fight crime as the Human Bomb. As Roy Lincoln, he would continue his father’s work developing new chemical compounds. But when crime or the thread o the Axis powers raised their head, Lincoln would don the Fibro-wax costume of the Human Bomb. He defeated a Nazi U-Boat base off the coast of the U.S., which gained him the attention of President Roosevelt. He gained an officer position in the Navy, and revealed to the Navy command his true identity. When Lincoln’s friend Hustace Throckmorton was hurt, the only one nearby with a compatible blood type match was Lincoln. Lincoln’s blood transfusion not only saved Throckmorton, but also passed along the 27-QRX. Throckmorton gained the ability to explode like Lincoln, however only through his feet. Lincoln made Throckmorton Fibra-wax shoes, and revealed his identity to Throckmorton. Throckmorton became the Human Bomb’s sidekick. The Human Bomb gained even more sidekicks when, after visiting the local draft board, he made friends with Montague T. “Coily” McGurk, Swordo the Sword Swallower, and Red Rogers. The Human Bomb gave them all 27-QRX pills, and they too gained the ability to explode. They nicknamed themselves the Bombardiers, and aided the Human Bomb on a couple of adventures. World War II, the Freedom Fighters, and the All-Star Squadron When President Roosevelt sent out the call for the heroes of Earth-2 to form the All-Star Squadron, the Human Bomb heeded the call. The Human Bomb joined the 47 other World War II heroes at the All-Star’s base of operations: the Perisphere. Their first meeting was interrupted, though, by Uncle Sam. Uncle Sam told the All-Stars of a world (later called Earth-X) where the Nazis were winning World War II. Uncle Sam had formed a group called the Freedom Fighters (consisting of Hourman, Invisible Hood, Magno, Miss America, Neon the Unknown, and Red Torpedo) and brought them from Earth-2 to Earth-X to stop the Nazis in that parallel Earth. Unfortunately, they failed, and all but Uncle Sam and Hourman died. Uncle Sam returned to Earth-2 and recruited a new team of Freedom Fighters: Black Condor, Doll Man, Human Bomb, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and the Red Bee. The Spectre transported them to Earth-X, where they planned on stopping that world’s Baron Blitzkrieg from orchestrating an attack on U.S. soil. The Freedom Fighters succeeded in stopping most of the German and Japanese troops, but unfortunately Baron Blitzkrieg had an ace up his sleeve: Hourman as a hostage. The crossings between Earth-2 and Earth-X started to cause a disruption between the two Earths; one that the Spectre held off long enough for Uncle Sam’s team to finish their mission and return to Earth-2. Meanwhile, Uncle Sam’s Freedom Fighters were captured trying to free Hourman. When Baron Blitzkrieg killed Red Bee, Red Bee’s death pushed the Freedom Fighters into breaking free and defeating the Baron’s plans. With the walls between Earth-2 and Earth-X becoming thinner, Baron Blitzkrieg fled to Earth-2. Most of the heroes followed, with Uncle Sam, the Ray, and Black Condor staying behind to help Earth-X, where the Nazis still had the upper hand. As time went on, the Nazis continued to dominate Earth-X Realizing that Earth-X needed as much help as it could get, Uncle Sam, Black Condor, and the Ray returned to Earth-2. Making use of the weakening of the bonds between worlds created by the Crisis, the three heroes recruited as many heroes as they could to help on Earth-X on a more permanent basis. Plastic Man and Phantom Lady were the first to agree, and they, alongside the other Quality heroes, left for Earth-X permanently. Even with the help of the various heroes of Earth-2, the Nazis of Earth-X eventually conquered America. Many Earth-X heroes gave their lives to try to stop them, including the Blackhawks of that Earth. In order to help control the population of the world, the Third Reich developed mind-influencing transmitters and stationed them at the Eiffel Tower, Mount Rushmore, and Mount Fijuyama. The remaining Freedom Fighters (Black Condor, Doll Man, Human Bomb, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and Uncle Sam) went underground. The Freedom Fighters and the Heroes of Earth-1 While on patrol, the Freedom Fighters discovered an unusual sight: seven costumed super-heroes fighting the Nazi army. These heroes were members of the Justice League of Earth-1 ( Batman, Elongated Man, Green Arrow, and Red Tornado) and the Justice Society of Earth-2 ( Dr. Fate, Superman, and Sandman). The Freedom Fighters rescued them and took them back to their underground bunker. Once regrouped, the heroes of Earth-1 and Earth-2 decided to end Nazi rule on Earth-X forever. They split up into three teams, each one targeting one of the mind-influencing transmitters. The heroes were successful, thanks to the Red Tornado bringing the attack to the Nazi’s orbiting base. Tornado destroyed the android Adolf Hitler running this Nazi regime, and enabled the Freedom Fighters to gain the upper hand. The heroes of Earth-1 and Earth-2 left for home, confidant that the Freedom Fighters could end Nazi rule. With the help of the heroes of other Earths, Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters made Earth-X an Earth of peace. However, with no super-villains, the heroes eventually became bored. With the help of an Earth-X scientist, the Freedom Fighters made the trip from Earth-X to Earth-1 in search of a new home. They came over to our New York City, where they immediately found themselves facing the villainous Silver Ghost and his gang. The Silver Ghost would turn out to be a recurring enemy of the team, just as New York City D.A. David Pearson would turn out to be an ally. Pearson arranged for the Freedom Fighters to be based out of a building in the East Armory. While in New York City, the team faced King Samson, Skragg the Super-Sniper, the demon Homilus, Cat-Man, the Renegades, and the alien Warmakers. During this time, Doll Man developed a dampening device that allowed the Human Bomb to be able to suppress his abilities. The Freedom Fighters realized that the same order of events that had triggered the Nazi party victory on Earth-X was happening on Earth-1: the destruction of the U.S. Constitution and Declaration of Independence. The Freedom Fighters and Superman stopped the Earth-1 neo-Nazi party responsible, and shortly after, the Freedom Fighters returned to Earth-X. The Crisis on Infinite Earths As Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters were rebuilding their Earth, they encountered a white anti-matter wave annihilating everything in its path. This wave was the precursor for the Crisis on Infinite Earths. The Freedom Fighters investigated, only to find themselves controlled by the Psycho-Pirate and thrown at the rest of the multiverse’s heroes trying to stop the Crisis. The Harbinger helped free the mind-controlled Freedom Fighters, and saved Earth-X from being eaten away by anti-matter. Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters joined the other heroes in trying to stop the Crisis. During the Crisis, Brainiac organized all of the multiverse’s villains into a single force of chaos. Human Bomb joined the heroes in trying to stop the villains. However, a rousing speech from Uncle Sam united both heroes and villains against the main villain behind the Crisis: the Anti-Monitor. Human Bomb joined the heroes to fight at the dawn of time. While the heroes were successful, events set in motion could not be stopped, and Earth-X merged with the order surviving earths to form a new single Earth, complete with a new past, present, and future. In the wake of the Crisis, the DC multiverse was condensed into a universe. Because of that, Human Bomb’s history changed. With a single Earth, there was no longer an Earth-X. This meant that the Freedom Fighters were simply an offshoot team of the All-Star Squadron that fought during the unified Earth’s World War II. Also in this new history, Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters helped the newly-formed Justice League fend off the second Apellaxian invasion. Roy Lincoln, Retired At one point, an aged Roy Lincoln retired from being the Human Bomb and moved to Tampa Bay, Florida. He hosted another retired World War II hero, Iron Munro, on his houseboat, when Munro thought his lover Sandra Knight (aka the first Phantom Lady) was dead. When Baron Blitzkrieg resurfaced, Munro began to hunt him down to avenge Sandra’s death, using Lincoln’s boat as his base of operations. After defeating Baron Blitzkrieg, Lincoln and government agent Sarge Steel revealed that Sandra had not died. Munro wanted to find her, but Lincoln and the then-current Phantom Lady, Dee Tyler, convinced him that she did not want to see him. The Last Days of the Human Bomb The Human Bomb came out of retirement when Eclipso, Mordru, and Obsidian allied themselves to conquer Earth. Human Bomb joined the resistance effort, and afterwards Uncle Sam recruited Human Bomb for his newest version of the Freedom Fighters. With the Freedom Fighters, Human Bomb fought alongside Uncle Sam, and second generation heroes Phantom Lady, Ray, and Black Condor. When Brother Eye turned against humanity, Human Bomb and the Freedom Fighters joined the heroes’ last stand in the Sahara Desert. During the Infinite Crisis, the Secret Society of Super-Villains organized for a full-out assault on Metropolis. Uncle Sam organized the Freedom Fighters (himself, Black Condor, Damage, Human Bomb, Phantom Lady, and the Ray) and investigated the last known meeting place of the Society. Unfortunately, Uncle Sam led the Freedom Fighters into an ambush. The Society was waiting for the Freedom Fighters, and, after killing Dr. Polaris, the Human Bomb was beaten to death by Bizarro, who was immune to his explosions. Human Bomb died, alongside fellow Freedom Fighters Black Condor and Phantom Lady, and their bodies were hung at the top of the Washington Monument by the Society as a warning. The Human Bomb was buried in Valhalla Cemetery in Metropolis, alongside his Freedom Fighters teammates. Unfortunately, his corpse was not at rest for long. Roy Lincoln was amongst the first wave of heroes brought back from the dead to become Black Lanterns during Blackest Night. Black Lantern Human Bomb and the rest of the deceased legacy JSA heroes attacked the JSA Headquarters. The headquarters was defended by the JSA, Atom, Flash, and Mera. It is presumed that Human Bomb’s body was returned to the grave at the end of Blackest Night. Powers and Abilities By touching an object with his bare hands, the Human Bomb could make that object explode. The only material able to prevent this explosion is “fibra-wax,” a material developed by Lincoln. By slamming his hands together, Lincoln could also generate explosive bursts and channel them at enemies. In addition, the Human Bomb was invulnerable to must attacks. Projectile weaponry would explode upon impact, with Lincoln immune to those explosions. Any weapon that was immune to his explosions, however, would allow damage through. As a one-time member of the Navy, Lincoln was trained to be an excellent hand-to-hand combatant. Lincoln’s fibra-wax suit also added much more weight to his punches, allowing them to land with more force than an average punch. Roy Lincoln had also aged at a slower rate than a normal human. While he did, in fact, age, he remained vital for quite a long time since the second World War. Some theorize that it was the 27-QRX chemical that caused this, while others believed it was his regular proximity to Uncle Sam that allowed him to remain young. The latter may hold more weight, since it wasn’t until after his retirement that Lincoln began to age more normally. Characteristics Height: 6’ 0” (in prime), 5’ 8” (in retirement) Weight: 182 lbs. (in prime), 195 lbs. (in retirement) Eyes: Blue Hair: Black (in prime), Gray (in retirement) Weapons and Equipment The first Human Bomb had a containment suits that was made out of a material called “fibra-wax,” which was developed by Roy Lincoln. The suit allowed not only for his destructive powers not to be unleashed, but also served as a way to maintain his secret identity. After coming from Earth-1 from Earth-X, Doll Man developed a dampening device capable of allowing the first Human Bomb to remove his gloves with no ill effect. He primarily used this device in his secret identity, and still used his fibra-wax suit when on a mission. Alternate Versions Golden Age The first Human Bomb was just one of the hundreds of golden age heroes featured in James Robinson’s four-issue Elseworlds series Golden Age. Human Bomb is seen very little in the series; he is one of the heroes seen to have fought during World War II, and he is one of the myriad of heroes that fights Dynaman in the series’ ending. JLA: Destiny In this elseworlds story, a Human Bomb named Addal Dirri was the lieutenant of terrorist leader Khouriga Edjem. The U.S. captured Dirri after his bombing of the Wayne Tower. It is unknown if this Human Bomb had superhuman abilities, or was just a demolitions expert. Kingdom Come In the future of Kingdom Come, the original Human Bomb, Roy Lincoln, was recruited to join Superman’s Justice League. The Human Bomb, now greatly aged, stood beside the Justice League during the final fight at the Gulag. It is presumed he did not survive the battle. Superman/Batman In an alternate reality created by the time manipulation of Lightning Lord, Saturn Queen, and Cosmic King, the Human Bomb was recruited by Green Lantern Uncle Sam to fight against Superman & Batman’s regime. This alternate version of the Freedom Fighters, which included Doll Man, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and Wonder Woman, died in an assault against Superman & Batman’s watchtower. Other Media Batman: The Brave and the Bold The first Human Bomb appeared with his Freedom Fighter teammates Black Condor, Doll Man, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and Uncle Sam, in an episode of Batman: Brave and the Bold. The episode (episode 21 of season 2, “Cry Freedom Fighters!”) featured Batman, the Freedom Fighters, and fellow Quality Comics superhero Plastic Man fighting against the Weaponers of Qward. Human Bomb had no speaking role.


--- [THE HUMAN BOMB - Don Markstein's Toonopedia] ---
THE HUMAN BOMBMedium: Comic booksPublished by: Quality Comics First Appeared: 1941 Creator: Paul Gustavson Please contribute to its necessary financial support. Amazon.com or PayPal Following the extreme success of Superman, American comic books were quickly overrun with superheroes. Most had either generic super powers (super strength, ability to fly, etc., like Captain Triumph) or none at all (like The Star Spangled Kid), but some of their powers were fairly imaginative. Kid Eternity could bring the dead back to assist him, Aquaman could talk to fish, The Human Torch could burst into flame at will … Some of their powers were fairly useless — for example, The Thin Man could make himself flat enough to slip under doors, and Hydroman could turn himself … | | … into a puddle of water and back again. Some were downright dangerous, such as The Comet's ability to kill a person just by looking at him. The Human Bomb's power fell into that category. If he touched anything bare-handed, it exploded. The Bomb was created by cartoonist Paul Gustavson (The Angel, The Jester). He debuted in Police Comics #1 (August, 1941), where Plastic Man, Firebrand and Phantom Lady were also introduced. The publisher was Quality Comics, which also published Blackhawk. His real name was Roy Lincoln, and he was a chemist working with his father, an explosives expert, on a powerful new formula called 27-QRX. Nazi spies broke in, trying to steal the powerful explosive for the Germans. The father was killed in the fracas, but Roy succeeded in keeping them from getting the chemical — by swallowing it. He expected it to kill him, but instead it made his hands glow; and when he hit one of the assailants, the man exploded. Fortunately, he found he could block his new power by wearing asbestos gloves. (After the danger of asbestos was established, the gloves were retconned into a substance called "fibro-wax".) Following the trends of the time, Roy made himself an evil-bashing costume. In his case, it consisted of a standard hazardous materials suit, with the gloves easily removable so he could blow things up. The fact that he wore the gloves in everyday life should have been a clue to his secret identity, but nobody ever picked up on it. He got a comedy-relief sidekick in the 15th issue (January, 1943), when a guy named Hustace Throckmorton needed an emergency transfusion, and Roy was the only one available with the right blood type. Hustace got a super power to match Roy's, but his was in his feet instead of his hands. Hustace was joined six issues later by three youngsters, Montague McGurk (who shaved his head and was therefore nicknamed "Curly"), Swordo (who apparently had no other name) and Red Rogers (the token female). Collectively, they called themselves The Bombardiers. The Human Bomb continued to fight Nazis, Japs and ordinary criminals until #58 (September, 1946), after which he was replaced by a teenage humor star named Honeybun. He wasn't seen again for more than a quarter of a century, by which time DC Comics had acquired Quality's long-defunct characters. In Justice League of America #107 (October, 1973), the JLA and their pals, The Justice Society of America, explored a parallel world in which the Nazis won World War II, and a small group of superheroes, including the Bomb, had gotten together as resistance fighters. The others (Uncle Sam, The Ray, Doll Man, The Black Condor and Phantom Lady) were also Quality Comics characters. It took a couple of issues, but in the end, The Freedom Fighters, as they called themselves, with the help of their new-found allies, finally ousted the invaders. The Freedom Fighters got their own comic with a cover date of April, 1976. Rather than deal with the aftermath of the World War II scenario, they opened the series by emigrating to the JLA's world. Crossing the dimensional barrier had the effect of "enhancing' his super power, if that's the right word — from then on, his whole body, not just his hands, was explosive, so he had to wear his protective suit all the time. The Freedom Fighters title lasted a mere 15 issues, but it did establish The Human Bomb and his cohorts as permanent fixtures in the DC Universe. Later, he, like every other DC-owned superhero who operated during World War II, was incorporated into The All-Star Squadron. The Bomb is now retired and living in Florida, but still available for guest shots, mini-series and whatever other use is made of DC's hundreds of series-less superheroes. — DDM BACK to Don Markstein's Toonopedia™ Home Page | |


--- [Human Bomb - Cosmic Teams] ---
Human Bomb Created by Paul Gustavson NAME + ALIASES: (Lt.) Roy Lincoln KNOWN RELATIVES: Prof. Lincoln (father, deceased) GROUP AFFILIATIONS: Freedom Fighters FIRST APPEARANCE: Police Comics #1 (August 1941) DEATH: Infinite Crisis #1 (December 2005) Human Bomb II NAME + ALIASES: Andy Franklin KNOWN RELATIVES: None GROUP AFFILIATIONS: S.H.A.D.E., Freedom Fighters FIRST APPEARANCE: Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #2 (Late July 2006) “The Human Bomb” was a popular feature created by Paul Gustavson, who created a number of successful super-heroes for Quality. Roy Lincoln was the son of a gifted scientist who invented a super-explosive called 27-QRX—five times more powerful than nitroglycerin. When spies arrived to steal the formula, they killed Roy’s father. To keep it from falling into their hands, Roy took drastic measures and swallowed the capsule. His body began to glow and he was imbued with deadly explosive power, centered in his hands. Roy’s first fight ended with a punch that brought down the entire building. To protect the world from his touch, Roy built a full-body suit laced with the same sort of “fibro-wax” used to contain the original explosive. As the Human Bomb, Roy waited for the thugs to return and learned the whereabouts of their boss, an Axis diplomat. When the rat fired on Roy, the bullets exploded on contact, leaving the hero unharmed. With no one as witness, Roy delivered another blow to kill the spy. (Police #1) … [ Read the full profile in the Quality Companion ] Hustace Throckmorton: The "Human Booby-Trap" In a desperate situation one day at a hospital, Roy was called upon to donate blood for one Hustace Throckmorton. Afterwards Lincoln kept tabs on the man—and for good reason. The transfusion gave Hustace similar powers, but instead of explosive hands, he found that his feet produced charges! Roy was forced to reveal his secret to Throckmorton and loaned him a pair of his own asbestos gloves to use as slippers. Hustace’s girlfriend, Honeybun, was a hulk of a woman who taught fighting tactics to military men. (Note: This story made mention of the Black Condor.) (#15) Throckmorton continued to cause trouble, especially when a shoe flew off and his powers began causing chaos. (#16) When newsmen Olaf Olson and Lars Larson got a picture of the Human Bomb taking off his costume, Hustace threw them off the trail by donning the suit and pretending that he was the Human Bomb (and destroying property in the process). (#17) [ … Q C. ] Notes The Super DC Calendar 1976 gave Human Bomb's birthday as January 18 . DC The Human Bomb next appeared in 1973’s Justice League of America #107-108. Roy was reintroduced to readers along with other former Quality heroes as the Freedom Fighters. This story and the successive Freedom Fighters series are no longer in DC continuity. [ … Q C. ] Andrew Franklin, Human Bomb II Soon after Roy Lincoln’s death, his successor was borne among the toxic rubble of the city of Blüdhaven. This city had been destroyed by the Society, the same group responsible for Roy’s death. Many died but some like Andy Franklin were transformed. Franklin was working as a researcher in the city when it was bombed, and his girlfriend was one of the first to die. When Franklin’s metagene was activated, he destroyed even more of his facility. (Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters #5) [ … Q C. ] Notes “The Human Bomb” was replaced by “Honeybun” in Police #59. This was also created by Paul Gustavson, but it was a male character—not Hustace’s girlfriend. The Human Bomb also appeared in the mini-series Enginehead. In issue #6, he blew himself up, but that series is generally considered to be out-of-continuity. It also used irreconcilable versions of other heroes. The Human Bomb was the inspiration for the character of the same name in John Arcudi’s 2002 Elseworlds series, JLA: Destiny. Powers The Human Bomb possessed enough explosive power in his hands to level an entire building. To prevent accidents in his civilian life, he had to wear gloves. These and his costume were made with a special “fibro-wax” that was also used to encase explosives. Bullets and knives would explode on contact with his body, giving the effect of invulnerability (described as “invulnerable armor”). The suit was also airtight and waterproof; he once remained underwater in it. By putting his hands on the ground, he could propel himself into the air. Roy also invented an explosive chemical that he used as a projectile. Andy Franklin’s powers could be near-nuclear in strength, and he is capable of destroying entire city blocks. Without the aid of a special drug that siphons away his powers, his whole body is volatile when he’s not inside his uniform. Appearances + References » FEATURED APPEARANCES: Human Bomb I: - All-Star Squadron #31-35, 50 - Canceled Comic Cavalcade #1-2 - Damage #0, 8, 10, 11 - DC Comics Presents #62 - JSA #49-51 - Justice League of America #107-108 - Young All-Stars #27 Human Bomb II: - Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #2–6 - DCU: Brave New World #1 » SERIES: Human Bomb I: - Freedom Fighters v.1 #1-15 - Police Comics #1-58 (August 1941–September 1946) Human Bomb II: - Freedom Fighters v.2 #1-9 - Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.1 #1-8 - Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.1 #1-8 » SEE ALSO:


--- [Human Bomb - DC CONTINUITY PROJECT] ---
No content


--- [Human Bomb - grokipedia.com] ---
The Human Bomb is a fictional superhero character from American comic books, originally published by Quality Comics and later integrated into the DC Comics universe upon acquisition of Quality's assets. Created by Paul Gustavson (signed as Paul Carroll), the character debuted in Police Comics #1 in August 1941, with Roy Lincoln as the inaugural incarnation—a chemist who ingested the experimental explosive compound 27-QRX to prevent its theft by Nazi agents after they murdered his father, thereby gaining the power to trigger detonations through physical contact.[1][2] To mitigate the risk of inadvertent explosions, Lincoln dons insulating fibro-wax gloves and a specialized suit that causes projectiles like bullets to detonate upon impact, rendering him highly effective against armored foes and enabling self-propulsion via controlled blasts.[2][3] As a key member of the World War II-era Freedom Fighters team, alongside figures like Uncle Sam and the Black Condor, the Human Bomb combated Axis subversion and Nazi incursions, particularly in storylines depicting an alternate-history Nazi invasion of America; he also affiliated with the All-Star Squadron.[3][2] Subsequent versions, such as Andy Franklin whose metagene-activated powers emerged amid post-apocalyptic conditions in Blüdhaven, expanded the legacy in modern DC continuity, though the original Lincoln iteration remains the most defining, noted for its visually striking explosive motif and unyielding combat utility despite the inherent danger of its abilities.[3] Creation and Publication History Origin and Creators The Human Bomb, a superhero character originating from the Golden Age of Comics, was created by cartoonist Paul Gustavson, who served as both writer and artist for the debut feature.[4] The character first appeared in Police Comics #1, published by Quality Comics in August 1941, as one of several anthology features in the issue that also introduced Plastic Man and Firebrand.[4][5] Gustavson, a Finnish-American artist born in 1911 who immigrated to the United States at age five, drew upon his experience creating other Quality heroes like The Angel and The Jester to establish the Human Bomb's explosive motif and wartime-era heroism.[6][7]Quality Comics, founded by Everett M. "Busy" Arnold in 1939, specialized in superhero and adventure anthologies during World War II, and the Human Bomb's creation aligned with the publisher's emphasis on patriotic, action-oriented characters to capitalize on the era's demand for escapist heroism amid global conflict.[3] Gustavson's initial story, untitled but retroactively known as "The Origin of the Human Bomb," set the template for the character's explosive abilities controlled via specialized gloves, reflecting the technical ingenuity common in early superhero tropes.[5] While Gustavson handled the bulk of early creative work, subsequent issues saw contributions from other Quality artists and writers, though his foundational role remained central to the character's identity until Quality's dissolution in 1956.[3] Quality Comics Era (1941-1946) The Human Bomb feature debuted in Police Comics #1 (August 1941), published by Quality Comics, with the origin story "The Origin of the Human Bomb" written and illustrated by Paul Gustavson.[4][7] The 6-page tale introduced Roy Lincoln, a chemist who gains the ability to detonate objects or body parts via touch after exposure to experimental chemicals during an attack by foreign agents, and established his containment suit to prevent uncontrolled explosions.[7] Subsequent issues positioned the character as a wartime hero combating spies, saboteurs, and Axis powers, aligning with Quality's patriotic themes amid World War II.[5]The serial appeared in every issue of Police Comics from #1 through #58 (September 1946), totaling 58 consecutive installments without gaps or crossovers into other Quality titles.[8][7] Installments typically spanned 6 to 10 pages, blending high-stakes action with science-based gadgetry and the character's explosive abilities against threats like Nazi infiltrators and criminal gangs.[9] Lincoln's bumbling sidekick, valet Hustace Thynne—often costumed as the comic-relief figure "Hapless Harold"—joined in early stories, providing humorous contrast to the hero's destructive precision and appearing through the run's conclusion.[4][10]Gustavson scripted and penciled the majority of the feature, maintaining a clear, cartoony style that emphasized dynamic explosions and chase sequences while delivering straightforward narratives focused on national defense.[8][7] The series ended abruptly in #58 with a standard crook-busting tale, reflecting post-war shifts in comics demand and Quality's declining output, after which the character lapsed into dormancy until DC's acquisition of Quality assets.[8][7] No collected editions of the full run existed until fan-compiled reprints in the 2010s, underscoring the feature's niche status among Quality's lineup.[11] Post-Quality Acquisitions and Revivals (1950s-1970s) In 1956, DC Comics acquired the rights to Quality Comics' superhero properties following the publisher's closure, including the Human Bomb among characters such as Uncle Sam and the Ray.[12] This acquisition preserved the intellectual property but did not immediately lead to new publications, as DC focused on its established lineup amid the post-war decline in superhero demand and the Comics Code Authority's influence. The Human Bomb remained dormant, with no solo or team appearances in DC titles throughout the late 1950s and 1960s, reflecting a broader industry shift toward horror, romance, and science fiction genres.[13]The character's revival occurred in 1973, when writer Len Wein and artist Dick Dillin introduced the Human Bomb as a member of the Freedom Fighters—a team comprising acquired Quality heroes including Black Condor, Doll Man, Phantom Lady, the Ray, and Uncle Sam—in Justice League of America #107–108 (October–November 1973).[3] In this crossover storyline, the Freedom Fighters hailed from Earth-X, an alternate reality where the Axis powers had triumphed in World War II, allowing DC to recontextualize the Golden Age heroes without contradicting mainline continuity. The Human Bomb's explosive abilities were showcased in battles against Nazi-inspired villains, marking his first DC-era outing after nearly three decades of inactivity.[4]Building on the crossover's success, DC launched the Freedom Fighters series in April 1976, written primarily by Gerry Conway with art by Ric Estrada and others, running for 15 issues until mid-1978.[14] The Human Bomb, portrayed as chemist Roy Lincoln, featured prominently in team adventures on Earth-X, combating the Nazi regime under Silver Eagle and internal threats like the Silver Ghost. Key issues highlighted his powers, such as detonating foes in Freedom Fighters #5 (January 1977), where he inadvertently aided in neutralizing King Samson.[15] The series emphasized ensemble dynamics over individual spotlights, contributing to the Human Bomb's integration into DC's multiverse framework, though sales challenges led to its cancellation amid the era's competitive market.[4] Modern DC Continuities and Miniseries (1980s-2020s) In the post-Crisis on Infinite Earths era, Roy Lincoln's Human Bomb integrated into DC's Earth-1 continuity as a Freedom Fighter from the parallel Earth-X, with limited standalone appearances in the 1980s, including a team-up in DC Comics Presents #62 (October 1983), where he confronted explosive threats alongside other heroes.[3] Roy's role emphasized his explosive abilities in group dynamics, but the character saw no dedicated series during this decade, reflecting DC's sporadic use of Quality Comics acquisitions amid broader multiverse streamlining.The 2000s marked revivals tied to major events. Following Roy Lincoln's death by the Secret Society of Super-Villains in Infinite Crisis #1 (December 2005), scientist Andy Franklin emerged as a successor in the six-issue miniseries Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1-6 (June-November 2006), written by Justin Gray and Jimmy Palmiotti. Exposed to residual radiation from the nuclear destruction of Blüdhaven by Chemo, Franklin gained volatile explosive powers, requiring containment suits to prevent uncontrolled detonations, and debuted his Human Bomb identity in issue #1 (early June 2006).[16] He subsequently joined a reformed Freedom Fighters in Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #1-8 (September 2006-May 2007), battling domestic threats while managing his unstable physiology.[17]In the New 52 initiative, a four-issue Human Bomb miniseries (February-May 2013), also by Gray and Palmiotti with art by Jerry Ordway, introduced ex-Marine Michael Taylor as a new iteration. Taylor uncovers a terrorist plot deploying surgically modified human bombs and injects himself with an experimental serum, transforming into a walking explosive capable of selective detonations but risking self-destruction.[18] The series, comprising issues #1-4, focused on Taylor's origin and confrontation with the conspiracy, diverging from Freedom Fighters ties to explore gritty, real-world terrorism analogs without reliance on legacy elements. Subsequent Rebirth-era continuities reinstated Roy Lincoln as the primary Human Bomb in team contexts, such as Freedom Fighters (2017-2018), underscoring his foundational role amid multiversal retcons.[19] Fictional Character Biography Roy Lincoln Roy Lincoln, the original incarnation of the Human Bomb, was depicted as a chemist collaborating with his father, ProfessorBenjamin Lincoln, an explosives expert, in developing a revolutionary compound known as 27-QRX, reported to be five times more potent than nitroglycerin.[3][2] When Nazi spies invaded their laboratory to seize the formula, Roy swallowed a vial of the substance to prevent its capture, causing it to infuse his cellular structure and granting him the ability to generate explosive force through physical contact.[4][5] To control this power and avoid unintended detonations, he adopted a specialized containment suit and insulated gloves, operating thereafter as the Human Bomb.[2][3]Lincoln's early exploits, beginning with his debut in Police Comics #1 in June 1941, centered on combating Axis agents and wartime threats during World War II, often employing his touch-induced explosions to dismantle enemy machinery, fortifications, and personnel.[4][13] His stories emphasized direct confrontations with Nazi operatives, reflecting the era's propaganda-driven narratives in Quality Comics publications, where he featured prominently alongside characters like Plastic Man.[5] In these tales, Lincoln maintained a civilian identity as a demolitions specialist while using his abilities for national defense, with his immunity to blast backlash allowing aggressive tactics against armored vehicles and structures.[2]Upon Quality Comics' acquisition by DC in the 1950s, Lincoln's character was retroactively placed on Earth-X, an alternate reality where the Allies lost World War II to a Nazi victory, enabling continued adventures against an enduring Axis regime.[2] He joined the Freedom Fighters, a team of Quality heroes including Uncle Sam and the Ray, in defending Earth-X from fascist incursions, as detailed in DC's 1973 Justice League of America crossover and the 1976 Freedom Fighters series.[3][2] During this period, his powers reportedly intensified, permitting explosions from any body contact point beyond mere hands.[20] In Freedom Fighters #11 (1977), Lincoln sacrificed himself in battle against the Silver Ghost, a Nazi-aligned villain, marking his canonical death in that continuity and paving the way for successors.[2] Post-Crisis on Infinite Earths (1985-1986), surviving Earth-X elements were integrated into mainline DC history, with Lincoln's legacy referenced in team revivals but his personal arc concluding as a WWII-era casualty.[19] Andy Franklin Dr. Andrew "Andy" Franklin, a scientist affiliated with the government organization S.H.A.D.E., became the second incarnation of the Human Bomb following exposure to the catastrophic destruction of Blüdhaven.[21] In Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1 (June 2006), Franklin is depicted as a timid researcher working in the city when it was obliterated by a nuclear detonation triggered by the villain Chemo during the events of Infinite Crisis.[16] The explosion infused him with volatile energy, granting explosive capabilities akin to the original Human Bomb, Roy Lincoln, including the ability to generate blasts of near-nuclear intensity sufficient to level city blocks.[17] However, these powers required stabilization via a specialized serum to prevent uncontrolled detonation, mirroring limitations inherited from prior wielders of the mantle.[3]Franklin's post-transformation activities centered on heroic endeavors within team contexts, particularly as a recruit to the Freedom Fighters.[21] In the Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters miniseries (2006–2007), he joined the reconstituted team under Uncle Sam's leadership, contributing his destructive prowess to battles against threats like the cloned President Alexis and shadowy government conspiracies.[22] His role emphasized a shift from personal timidity to reluctant heroism, often requiring intervention from teammates to overcome initial hesitancy in deploying his powers.[23] Franklin maintained ties to S.H.A.D.E., leveraging their resources for power management, though his tenure highlighted the inherent risks of his abilities, including potential for catastrophic collateral damage without precise control.[3]Subsequent appearances, such as in Freedom Fighters vol. 2 (2010) and crossovers, portrayed Franklin as a steadfast but volatile asset in multiversal conflicts, including defenses against Nazi incursions from Earth-X.[21] His narrative arc underscored themes of unintended empowerment from disaster, with no canonical death or replacement detailed up to the New 52 reboot, after which the Human Bomb mantle shifted to other successors like Michael Taylor.[17] Franklin's iteration remains notable for integrating modern DC continuity elements, such as post-Infinite Crisis fallout, while preserving the explosive core of the character's Quality Comics origins.[24] Michael Taylor and Other Successors Michael Taylor serves as the third successor to the Human Bomb mantle in DC Comics' New 52 continuity, debuting as an ex-Marine Corps veteran who had served with distinction in Afghanistan.[25] In the 2012 Human Bombminiseries by writer Justin Gray and artist Jimmy Palmiotti, Taylor investigates the death of his brother, who was linked to a clandestine government project experimenting with human subjects transformed into living explosives.[26] This probe uncovers a broader conspiracy by terrorists to deploy such "human bombs" against targets across the United States, prompting Taylor to ingest a volatile chemical formula that grants him explosive abilities akin to his predecessors, albeit with the precarious risk of uncontrolled detonation.[18][22]As the Human Bomb, Taylor operates from New York City and allies with organizations like S.H.A.P.E. (Super Human Advanced Defense Executive) while confronting threats that exploit human augmentation for destructive ends.[18] His tenure includes membership in the Freedom Fighters, where he contributes his volatile powers to team efforts against multiversal invaders and domestic extremists.[27] Unlike earlier incarnations tied to wartime origins, Taylor's narrative emphasizes post-9/11 counterterrorism themes, with his Marine background informing a disciplined yet haunted approach to wielding powers that could annihilate him or bystanders at any provocation.[25]No further successors to Taylor have been established in subsequent DC publications as of 2025, with his version remaining the most recent iteration amid the character's sporadic revivals.[28] The miniseries concludes with Taylor stabilizing his condition enough to continue vigilantism, though ongoing instability underscores the mantle's inherent peril compared to the more controlled explosions of Roy Lincoln or Andy Franklin.[22] Powers and Abilities Primary Capabilities The Human Bomb, primarily embodied by Roy Lincoln, possesses the core ability to generate catastrophic explosions through direct physical contact with objects using his bare hands, derived from ingesting an experimental explosive serum known as Formula 27-Q. This power manifests as a concussive blast capable of shattering virtually any material, from metals to concrete structures, with force equivalent to demolishing an entire building in a single touch.[2][3] The intensity of the detonation scales with the force of contact; a mere touch suffices for smaller effects, while a forceful strike amplifies the yield exponentially.[20]Intrinsic to this capability is the character's immunity to the backlash of self-generated explosions, enabling him to trigger blasts at point-blank range without sustaining injury from shrapnel, heat, or shockwaves produced by his own actions.[20] This physiological adaptation stems from the serum's alteration of his body chemistry, transforming kinetic energy buildup into directed explosive release channeled primarily through his palms.[2] To mitigate uncontrolled detonations in daily life—such as accidental contact with everyday items—Lincoln dons insulated gloves and a specialized containment suit that suppresses his powers until intentionally removed, underscoring the raw, uncontrolled nature of his explosive potential.[3]In combat applications, this touch-based detonation serves as both offensive and tactical utility, allowing precise targeting of enemy vehicles, fortifications, or weaponry while preserving surrounding allies through selective glove removal. Historical depictions from his Quality Comics era emphasize its efficacy against wartime threats like armored tanks or saboteur equipment, where the power's immediacy provided a decisive edge in close-quarters engagements.[20] Later DC integrations retain this foundational mechanic, though with occasional expansions like internalized energy projection for ranged bursts, the original serum-induced contact explosion remains the defining trait across continuities.[2] Limitations and Drawbacks The Human Bomb's explosive abilities require direct physical contact with bare hands, necessitating the use of specialized gloves or a containment suit in daily life to avoid accidental detonations upon touching ordinary objects.[3][9] This limitation introduces a tactical delay in combat, as Roy Lincoln must remove his gloves to activate his powers, potentially exposing him to attacks during that interval.[19]Beyond the glove dependency, the character's human physiology remains vulnerable to non-explosive threats, such as blunt force trauma, energy blasts, or environmental hazards not neutralized by his immunity to his own generated blasts and small projectiles.[20] Early depictions emphasized inconsistent control over the explosive force, risking excessive collateral damage or unintended escalation, though later continuities suggest improved modulation, reducing but not eliminating the need for protective gear.[29]Certain insulating substances, like rubber-based compounds, have been shown to neutralize the explosive effect by preventing the chemical transfer required for detonation, rendering the power inert against coated targets or when applied to Lincoln himself.[30] This vulnerability underscores the powers' reliance on direct, unimpeded molecular interaction, limiting efficacy against shielded or distant adversaries. Alternative Versions Multiverse Variants In the DC Multiverse, variants of the Human Bomb appear primarily in parallel Earths where World War II outcomes diverged dramatically, often as part of the Freedom Fighters resisting fascist regimes. On Earth-X, established in the 1970s as a world where Nazi Germany achieved victory in the war due to the absence of superheroes until the Freedom Fighters' emergence, the Human Bomb serves as a core resistor alongside Uncle Sam, the Ray, Doll Man, Black Condor, and Phantom Lady.[31] This iteration retains explosive energy projection capabilities akin to the Earth-Two original, deploying them against Nazi forces in prolonged guerrilla warfare, though specific identity details align closely with Roy Lincoln's archetype without confirmed deviations in canonical depictions.Earth-10, reimagined in Grant Morrison's The Multiversity (2014–2015), presents a dystopian Nazi-dominated reality under the Justifiers and New Reichsmen, featuring a Human Bomb integrated into an updated Freedom Fighters lineup including the Ray, Black Condor, Doll Man, Doll Woman, and Phantom Lady.[32] In The Multiversity: Mastermen #1 (January 2015), this version participates in a desperate assault on Nazi strongholds, culminating in a sacrificial detonation that destroys the Reichsmen's orbiting satellite base and tower, enabling Uncle Sam's broader multiversal intervention against the threat.[33] Designated as the third Human Bomb successor in some accounts, this incarnation emphasizes tactical self-immolation as a weapon, highlighting the mantle's inherent peril in high-stakes resistance narratives.[34]These variants underscore the character's adaptability across multiversal histories, consistently portraying the Human Bomb's powers as both asset and curse in anti-authoritarian contexts, with Earth-X focusing on sustained insurgency and Earth-10 on climactic, world-altering sacrifice. No other major multiversal iterations, such as gender-swapped or heroic Nazi analogues, receive detailed canonical exploration in primary sources beyond brief team affiliations.[32] Reboots and Retcons In the 1970s, writer Roy Thomas retconned the Human Bomb and other Quality Comics characters into DC continuity by placing them on Earth-X, a parallel world where Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan achieved victory in World War II, allowing the Freedom Fighters team—including Roy Lincoln as Human Bomb—to operate against Axis forces before crossing over to Earth-One.[35] This adjustment reconciled the characters' original wartime origins with DC's established multiverse structure, as detailed in the 1976 Justice League of America/Freedom Fighters crossover.[36]The 1985–1986 Crisis on Infinite Earths event fundamentally altered this framework by collapsing DC's multiverse into a single primary Earth, retroactively merging or nullifying Earth-X's distinct history for many characters, including Human Bomb, whose Nazi-fighting exploits were partially integrated into the main timeline while eliminating the parallel-world separation.[37] A subsequent minor continuity revision updated the composition of Lincoln's protective gloves from asbestos—a material used in early depictions—to "fibro-wax," reflecting post-1980s awareness of asbestos health risks without altering core functionality.[20]Lincoln's status faced further retcons through deaths and resurrections: he appeared as an elderly, powerless figure in the 1990s Damage series before being killed by Bizarro in Infinite Crisis #1 (October 2005), only to be temporarily revived as a Black Lantern zombie during the 2009 Blackest Night crossover, where reanimated heroes exhibited aggressive, power-amplified behaviors tied to the event's black power ring mechanics.[38] Permanent restoration came in the 2020 Dark Nights: Death Metal storyline, where Lincoln was among heroes exhumed and revived from a mass grave to combat multiversal threats, reestablishing him as an active Freedom Fighter in post-event continuity.[39]The 2011 New 52 relaunch prompted a partial reboot via the four-issue Human Bomb miniseries (January–April 2013), written by Jimmy Palmiotti and Justin Gray with art by Jerry Ordway, which reimagined the character amid updates to the broader Freedom Fighters roster, shifting focus to a protagonist—identified in tie-ins as Michael Taylor—confronting experimental alterations to his explosive physiology by shadowy organizations, diverging from Roy Lincoln's classical origin while nodding to legacy elements.[40] This miniseries aligned with New 52 efforts to modernize obscure Quality heroes, as seen in contemporaneous revivals like The Ray and Phantom Lady, though it emphasized standalone thriller elements over team dynamics.[25] Post-2016 Rebirth initiatives largely reverted to Roy Lincoln as the primary Human Bomb, preserving his 1941 origin while incorporating select prior retcons into Prime Earth continuity.[2] Reception and Cultural Impact Comic Book Legacy The Human Bomb, originally published by Quality Comics, debuted in Police Comics #1 in August 1941 and featured regularly through issue #58 in 1946, often alongside sidekick "Hustace" Throckmorton introduced in issue #15 (1943).[7] Following Quality's acquisition by DC Comics, the character was revived in Justice League of America #107–108 (November–December 1973), reintroducing Roy Lincoln as a member of the Freedom Fighters team alongside other Quality heroes like Uncle Sam and the Ray.[3] This marked the start of his integration into DC's multiverse, particularly Earth-X narratives depicting patriots fighting Nazi incursions.[7]The character's comic book presence expanded through the Freedom Fighters series (#1–15, 1976–1978), where he contributed to team efforts against threats like the Silver Ghost, and subsequent crossovers in All-Star Squadron #31–35 and #50 (1984–1985).[3] Roy Lincoln's arc culminated in his death during the Infinite Crisis event in Infinite Crisis #1 (December 2005), solidifying his role in DC's historical continuity but limiting further solo development.[7] Successor iterations, such as Andy Franklin in Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #2 (2006) and Michael Taylor in the 2012 Human Bomb four-issue miniseries by Justin Gray and Jimmy Palmiotti, attempted modernization by linking explosive powers to metahuman activation or military trauma, though these emphasized team affiliations over individual prominence.[41][3]Despite visual distinctiveness—marked by his explosive aura and insulated suit—the Human Bomb maintains a modest legacy, primarily as a Freedom Fighters staple rather than a standalone icon, with underutilization in major DC events contributing to relative obscurity.[7] Recent efforts include the 2023 introduction of sidekick Cherry Bomb in DC's The New Golden Age event, tying into Stargirl narratives and hinting at potential mantle revivals, though without elevating the core character's profile significantly.[42] His influence extends indirectly to Elseworlds tales like JLA: Destiny (2002) by John Arcudi, which drew thematic inspiration from Golden Age explosive heroes.[3] Overall, appearances total around 116 issues across teams, underscoring ensemble utility over enduring solo impact.[3] Criticisms and Obscurity Factors The Human Bomb's obscurity stems primarily from his origins at Quality Comics, a publisher that produced numerous Golden Age heroes but ceased operations in the mid-1950s after facing declining sales amid the post-war comic industry downturn and the 1954 Comics Code implementation.[43] Following Quality's dissolution, rights to characters like Roy Lincoln transferred to DC Comics, where the Human Bomb was retroactively placed on Earth-X and integrated into team books such as the Freedom Fighters miniseries in 1976, limiting him to ensemble roles rather than prominent solo narratives.[38] This sporadic usage—confined mostly to backup features in Police Comics (1941–1946) and occasional crossovers—has overshadowed him compared to more enduring Quality acquisitions like Plastic Man, who received sustained solo titles and media adaptations.[44]Critics have faulted the character's core concept for its narrow scope, labeling him a "one-trick pony" reliant on a single explosive-touch ability that lacks versatility in prolonged storytelling.[6] His Golden Age costume, often depicted as a drab business suit with gloves and a containment suit, has been dismissed as visually unappealing and emblematic of formulaic wartime hero designs.[6] Modern revival attempts, such as the 2012 New 52 miniseries, drew complaints of underdeveloped protagonists portrayed as overly idealized working-class figures, resulting in a dull narrative tone and supporting cast; IGN rated the debut issue 5.2/10, highlighting these execution flaws despite an intriguing setup.[45] The series' abrupt cancellation after four issues underscored broader disinterest in reboots, with fan discussions noting dissatisfaction with post-Crisis portrayals that diminished the original's quirky humor.[46]Further contributing to marginalization, the Human Bomb's Nazi-fighting premise, while resonant in 1941's Police Comics #1, aged poorly in peacetime revivals, reducing appeal amid shifting cultural priorities away from obscure public-domain-era heroes toward flagship DC icons.[25] Unlike contemporaries with malleable powersets enabling diverse arcs, his inherent risk of accidental detonation imposed narrative constraints, as evidenced by containment suit requirements that complicated civilian life depictions and limited dramatic tension.[2] These elements, combined with DC's preference for high-profile relaunches of A-list characters, have confined him to niche collector interest rather than mainstream recognition.[47]
