=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[100 Facts about the V&A · V&A]
May 22, 2016 · 5. The first Director, Sir Henry Cole, described the Museum in 1857 as "a refuge for destitute collections". More than a century later, the then Director, Sir Roy Strong, called it "an extremely capacious handbag". 6. Part of the Museum was built initially for the use of the National Gallery, which had run out of space at Trafalgar Square.
URL: https://www.vam.ac.uk/articles/100-facts-about-the-va

[A palace of treasures - the Victoria & Albert Museum]
Museum Director Sir Henry Cole, regarded it as 'a refuge for destitute collections'. More than a century later, the then Director Sir Roy Strong called it 'an extremely capacious handbag'. Cole intended that the museum attract the widest possible audience. He hoped that 'the evening opening of public museums may furnish a powerful antidote to the gin palace'.
URL: https://www.bitesizedbritain.co.uk/va111/

[Announcing Explore the Collections • V&A Blog]
Jan 29, 2021 · In the 1980s former director Sir Roy Strong famously called the V&A ‘an extremely capacious handbag’. When you consider our collections span 5000 years of human creativity, and include several million objects, archives and library...
URL: https://www.vam.ac.uk/blog/digital/announcing-explore-the-collections

[Great photographs are like visual poetry by Martin Barnes | Photoworks]
Oct 7, 2013 · The first Director, Sir Henry Cole, described the Museum in 1857 as ‘a refuge for destitute collections’. More than a century later Sir Roy Strong called it ‘an extremely capacious handbag’. Everything is here, from the domestic to the palatial, from Victorian pincushions to Leonardo da Vinci’s notebooks.
URL: https://photoworks.org.uk/great-photographs-like-visual-poetry/

[What to See at the Victoria and Albert Museums in 2025]
May 20, 2025 — “An extremely capacious handbag,” Sir Roy Strong, the V&A's director from 1973 to 1987, once called it. Today it's a family of museums ...
URL: https://www.townandcountrymag.com/leisure/arts-and-culture/a64515541/victoria-albert-museum-exhibitions-openings-2025/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [100 Facts about the V&A · V&A] ---
Early history 1. When it was established in 1852 the Museum was called the Museum of Manufactures and was located at Marlborough House, a royal residence in Pall Mall, London. A year later, it became the Museum of Ornamental Art and in 1857 moved to its current site as the South Kensington Museum. It was renamed the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1899 when Queen Victoria laid the foundation stone of new buildings along Exhibition Road and Cromwell Road. 2. Queen Victoria really wanted to call the V&A the 'Albert Museum'. 3. The Museum was built in the area of Brompton, in the western outskirts of London, but the Museum authorities re-christened the area South Kensington, to make it sound more fashionable. 4. The Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 owns the site of the V&A, the nearby Science and Natural History Museums, Imperial College, the Royal Colleges of Art and Music and Royal Albert Hall. The area, dubbed 'Albertopolis', was bought partly out of the profits of the Great Exhibition. 5. The first Director, Sir Henry Cole, described the Museum in 1857 as "a refuge for destitute collections". More than a century later, the then Director, Sir Roy Strong, called it "an extremely capacious handbag". 6. Part of the Museum was built initially for the use of the National Gallery, which had run out of space at Trafalgar Square. The National Gallery insisted on having a separate entrance for its visitors. 7. The V&A's South and South-East Asian collections began life as the East India Company's India Museum, founded in 1801. The India Museum was transferred to the control of the South Kensington Museum in 1879. 8. The South Kensington Museum was the first museum in the world to provide a public restaurant. 9. The restaurant had different first and second class menus, and a third class service for 'mechanics and all workmen employed at the Museum Buildings and even for the humble working class visitors'. 10. The South Kensington Museum was the first in the world to use gas lighting in the galleries, to allow evening opening. 11. The first Director, Henry Cole, intended that the South Kensington Museum should attract the widest possible audience, and hoped that "the evening opening of public museums may furnish a powerful antidote to the gin palace". 12. During the 19th century the Museum had free admission three days a week and charged 6d for entry on the other three days. The purpose of the charging days was to keep the Museum quiet for students. 13. The Science Museum was originally part of the South Kensington Museum, then the V&A; it did not become a separate institution until 1909. 14. In 1873, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Robert Lowe, plotted unsuccessfully to have the South Kensington Museum taken over by the British Museum. 15. The Museum's first (temporary) buildings were made of iron, and clad in corrugated iron; they were so ugly that they were nicknamed the 'Brompton Boilers' by the Builder magazine. 16. The 'Brompton Boilers' were largely dismantled in 1867 and re-erected with new brick walls and a slate roof at Bethnal Green, where they now house Young V&A. 17. The V&A's buildings occupy 12 acres of land in South Kensington and are over a third of a mile in circumference. Some of the mosaic floors in the Museum were made by 'lady convicts' in Woking Prison. Museum staff jokingly gave the mosaic a Latin name, 'opus criminale'. 18. The Henry Cole Wing of the V&A was originally designed as a School of Naval Architecture and subsequently became a School of Science. 19. The statue on top of the central tower of the V&A represents Fame. Her nose is missing. 20. In 1872 a pneumatic railway was planned to carry visitors from the South Kensington underground station to the Museum and the Royal Albert Hall. It was never built. 22. A new underground station was opened very close to the Museum in 1904 called Brompton Road. It was judged to be uneconomical and was closed in 1934. 23. When deliveries were made to the Museum by horse and cart there was not enough room for drivers to manoeuvre; there was a large turn-table on which both horse and cart could be turned round. 24. The small vacant triangle of land opposite the main entrance was bought by the Museum in 1863 to ensure that the view from Thurloe Square could never be obscured by new buildings. 25. The inscription over the main entrance of the Museum reads 'The excellence of every art must consist in the complete accomplishment of its purpose', and is a quotation from the artist Sir Joshua Reynolds. 26. 35 portraits of European artists and designers were made in mosaic to decorate the South Court of the Museum in the 1860s. They were known as the Kensington Valhalla. The Collections 27. Many of the V&A's collections have national status. National collections at the V&A include the art of photography, British watercolours and drawings, ceramics, fashion, furniture and woodwork, glass, jewellery, metalwork including silver, portrait miniatures, post-classical sculpture and textiles. 28. Tipu's Tiger has long been one of the V&A's most popular exhibits. The wooden model of a tiger attacking a European was made for Tipu Sultan, ruler of Mysore in India, in the 1790s. A mechanical organ inside the figure imitates the growling of the tiger and the man's moans. 29. The Luck of Edenhall is a 13th-century Syrian glass beaker which belonged to the Musgrave family of Edenhall in Cumbria. A story connected with it relates 'If this cup should break or fall, farewell the luck of Edenhall'. 30. The iron screen from Hereford Cathedral contains 14,000 pieces. Its conservation and reconstruction employed 38 people and took one year to complete. 31. The strangest sculpture in the collection is an ox's head, made in Italy in the late 17th century of marble and wood. The cavity in the head contains an osteoma or morbid growth, at one time wrongly thought to be the fossilized brain of an ox. 32. The famous Gloucester Candlestick is the only example of early 12th-century English metalwork to survive today. This masterpiece of early English art was cast in three sections and is made of a copper alloy with a high silver content. 33. An unusual portrait (and John Ruskin's most hated work of art) is the sculpture of 'Bashaw, the faithful friend of Man' by Matthew Cotes Wyatt. Bashaw, Lord Dudley's Newfoundland dog, had about 50 sittings for the portrait, which was not finished until after Lord Dudley's death in 1833. The Executors would not pay the £5,000 price and so it remained in Wyatt's studio until his death. 34. The tallest object in the collections is a plaster cast of Trajan's Column, reproduced from the marble original in Rome. It is 35.6 metres high and, being too tall to fit in the galleries, is displayed as two separate towers. 35. Some of the smallest objects on display are glass weights for testing coins dating from the 8th to 10th centuries. They have Arabic inscriptions, were found in Egypt, and some of them are less than 1 cm in diameter. 36. One of the smallest sculpted objects is a cameo portrait of Elizabeth I, dated about 1575-80, which is 5.5 cm high. It is one of around 30 cameos of Elizabeth I that survive. She is depicted holding a sieve, perhaps symbolising chastity, or her powers of discernment. 37. The V&A owns a copy of the first commercially produced Christmas card, which was invented in 1843 by the Museum's first Director, Henry Cole. 38. The V&A was the first museum in the world to collect photographs as art, beginning in 1856. 39. The tallest bed in the Museum is The State Bed from Melville House measuring 4.62 metres high. 40. The oldest desk in the collection – really a writing box – belonged to Henry VIII and was made in 1525. 41. The V&A has the earliest photograph of London, a view down Whitehall from Trafalgar Square (before Nelson's Column was built), a daguerreotype taken by a M. de St Croix in 1839. 42. There are approximately 16,000 objects from China in the collection, dating from the 4th millennium BC to the present day. They include a rare group of gilded wooden Buddhist figures from around 1200 AD and a spectacular Qing dynasty carved lacquer imperial throne. 43. The widest fashion object is the skirt (petticoat) on a court mantua which is almost 8 feet wide (2.38 m). 44. The earliest European garment is a young man's shirt, dated 1540. 45. The Ardabil carpet at the V&A is the world's oldest dated carpet (made in Iran in 1539) and one of the largest, most beautiful and historically important in the world. 48. Queen Victoria was said to be shocked by the nudity of a full-size plaster-cast of Michelangelo's 'David'. A suitably proportioned fig leaf was made, and hung on the figure using a pair of hooks when dignitaries visited. Today, the fig leaf is no longer used. 46. One of the earliest sculptures in the collection is an Egyptian ivory casket leg in the form of a lion's paw dating from the 4th century. 47. One of the most celebrated sculpture is the 'Three Graces' by Antonio Canova, made for the 6th Duke of Bedford for the Temple of Graces at Woburn Abbey in 1814 – 17. It was purchased by the V&A jointly with the National Galleries of Scotland for £7.6m in 1994. 49. The miniature portrait of Mary Queen of Scots by Nicholas Hilliard was painted while Mary was a prisoner of Elizabeth I. Elizabeth probably commissioned this portrait of the cousin whom she had never met. 50. A Victorian wardrobe made for Penrhyn Castle and designed by Thomas Hopper was once owned by Mick Jagger. It is on display in the Britain Galleries. 51. Among many things at the V&A associated with Charles Dickens are his pen case and manuscript for Oliver Twist. 52. Several sculptures by Rodin were loaned to the V&A as a result of the outbreak of the First World War, as Rodin was "so moved by the joint action of French and British troops in France". 53. The V&A owns a bed that belonged to the actor David Garrick and his wife, which was supplied (and possibly designed) by Thomas Chippendale. Its chintz hangings were confiscated by the authorities from Chippendale's studio because Mrs Garrick had not paid the required import duties. 54. The beautiful hanging panels from Oxburgh Hall were embroidered by Mary Queen of Scots during her imprisonment between 1569 and 1585. 55. The earliest surviving wedding suit dates from 1673. It belonged to James II (before he was crowned) and displayed in the Britain Galleries. 56. Contrary to popular belief, hardly any of the V&A's collections belonged to Queen Victoria or Prince Albert. The most notable exception is a famous series of paintings, the Raphael cartoons, which were loaned by Queen Victoria and are still on loan from the present King. 57. The Great Bed of Ware is Britain's most famous bed. Made in the 1590s, it is over 11 feet long and ten feet wide, and is mentioned in Shakespeare's play Twelfth Night. 58. The Great Bed of Ware was possibly made as a marketing ploy to attract visitors to The Crown Inn in Ware. It is supposed to be haunted and in 1736, is recorded as having slept '26 butchers and their wives'. 59. The V&A owns some of Elton John's spectacles, Adam Ant's stage costume, and Mick Jagger's jump suit. Visitors and exhibitions 60. The first 'blockbuster' exhibition at the Museum was held in 1862. It was called the Special Exhibition of Works of Art of the Medieval, Renaissance and More Recent Periods. 61. In 1913 militant suffragettes threatened to vandalise collections in public museums and galleries. The V&A considered banning women visitors, but instead decided to protect the collections by increasing visitor numbers. Entrance charges were dropped to help achieve this. 62. In 2015, the V&A staged its most popular show ever, selling 480,000 tickets for Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty. 63. The V&A first staged open-air classical music concerts in the garden in 1950. There was seating for 700 and promenade space for several hundred more. 64. As part of its outreach programme to young people, the V&A became the first museum in Britain to present a rock concert in July 1973. The V&A presented a combined concert/lecture by British progressive folk-rock band Gryphon. 65. The CD produced to accompany the Art Deco exhibition sold so many copies it could have been placed in the top 40 UK chart. The V&A at large 66. The Bethnal Green branch of the Museum was established in 1868. The 'animal products' collection was moved there from South Kensington, together with a food collection, and collections of shoes and boots, waste products, butterflies and moths. 67. The Bethnal Green Museum was renamed the Museum of Childhood in 1974 – and is now Young V&A. 68. In 1938 the V&A mounted an exhibition in Leicester Square underground station. 69. From the beginning the Museum made sure that its collections were widely seen outside London. The first circulating exhibition was transported in its own specially constructed railway truck. 70. The V&A administered two historic houses, Ham House and Osterley Park House, on behalf of the National Trust from the late 1940s until 1991. The Wellington Museum at Apsley House (Number 1, London) was run as a branch of the V&A from 1947 until 2004 when management was transferred to English Heritage. 71. London's Design Museum started life in 1981 as the Boilerhouse exhibition space at the V&A. Terence Conran was the driving force behind the project, and Stephen Bayley was its curator. Staff 72. An annual pantomime has been staged by V&A staff every Christmas since 1981, giving a satirical view of the year's events at the V&A. 73. Sir Henry Cole's dog Jim, and another 'faithful dog' Tycho, are buried in the V&A's garden. 74. The V&A did not employ warders or gallery assistants in the 19th century. At first, troops from the Royal Engineers acted as warders, then from 1858 until 1920 police officers fulfilled that role. 75. A small detachment of Royal Engineers (or 'sappers') was based at the Museum for over 40 years. They specialised in fire-fighting but also acted as clerks, photographers, warders and general maintenance staff. 76. There was a water tank in the Museum's grounds, both for fire-fighting, and to enable the sappers to exercise in a rowing boat. 77. The first female keeper was Margaret Longhurst, who was appointed Keeper of Architecture & Sculpture in 1938. 78. The V&A's first full-time guide lecturer, Miss Marion Thring, was appointed in 1935. 79. In the late 19th century the Museum consulted expert outsiders to help assess new acquisitions. They were called 'Art Referees', and included artists and designers such as William Morris, Owen Jones, Frederic Leighton and Lawrence Alma-Tadema. 80. The most renowned curator of the South Kensington Museum in the 19th century was J.C. Robinson. He was dismissed from his job twice, but went on to become Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures and was knighted in 1887. 81. The V&A had the first public relations department of any national museum. Formed in 1947, it was at first called Museum Extension Services, and was headed by Charles Gibbs-Smith. The V&A at war 82. The V&A stayed open throughout the First World War, although half of the buildings were taken over by the Board of Education, which had been forced to give up its Whitehall offices to the Admiralty. 83. The V&A's first guidebook in French was published during the First World War, for the benefit of Belgian refugees. 84. During the Second World War part of the V&A served as an RAF canteen, and some of the galleries were used as a school for children evacuated from Gibraltar. 85. During the Second World War most of the V&A's collections were evacuated to the Aldwych Underground tunnel, to Montacute House in Somerset and to Westwood Quarry near Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire. 86. The Raphael cartoons were too large to evacuate during the War and were bricked up into a protective shelter. 86. The V&A was hit repeatedly by bombs during the Second World War. Some bomb damage to the front of the building on Exhibition Road was never repaired but was left as 'a memorial to the enduring values of this great museum in a time of conflict'. Trouble at the Museum 87. Three letters sent by the V&A were lost on the Titanic. 88. The worst scandal in the V&A's history occurred in the 1950s when a member of staff was found to have stolen several hundred objects, including a number of swords, which he smuggled out of the Museum down his trouser legs. 89. The most memorable, if notorious, publicity campaign by the V&A was devised by Saatchi & Saatchi in 1988. It featured the slogan 'An ace caff with quite a nice museum attached'. 90. When the V&A first displayed examples of Art Nouveau furniture in 1901 there was such controversy in the art establishment that the furniture was banished to Bethnal Green. It was displayed with a notice warning design students not to imitate this radical new style. 91. In the early 1980s, after a flood in a basement store, damaged books were taken and put in freezers at Harrod's department store until they could be restored. 92. A rare incident of a V&A object self-destructing occurred in 1998. A tin of Biba-branded baked beans, part of an archive of Biba packaging and graphic design, was found to be corroded, but before conservation could take place the tin exploded. Some V&A legends 93. According to a survey commissioned for Museums and Galleries Month in 2006, the V&A was the most romantic museum in the UK. 94. There are seven miles of galleries in the V&A. 95. The wartime Special Operations Executive used the Royal College of Art building at the back of the V&A to fit out spies who were to be dropped into France. 96. A warder by the name of Clinch is said to have committed suicide in a basement room, which has been known ever since as 'Clinch's Hole'. It is believed by some to be haunted. Popular culture 97. The first Director of the Museum, Sir Henry Cole was the model for the 'third gentleman' in Charles Dickens' novel Hard Times. 98. H.G. Wells' novel Love and Mr Lewisham is partly set in the Museum's galleries and the adjoining School of Science (now the V&A's Henry Cole Wing). 99. A.S. Byatt’s 2009 Man Booker Prize shortlisted novel The Children's Book is partly set in the Museum. 100. Many feature films include scenes shot at the V&A including The Ipcress File (1965), To Sir with Love (1967), The Portrait of a Lady (1996), Tinker Tailor, Soldier Spy (2011), Hugo (2011) and Trance (2013).


--- [A palace of treasures - the Victoria & Albert Museum] ---
A palace of treasures - the Victoria & Albert Museum The Victoria & Albert museum, situated in South Kensington, London, has pioneered the curation and presentation of arts, crafts and creative objects since its establishment in 1857. It is the world's largest museum of applied and decorative art and design, as well as sculpture, fashion and objects from popular culture. It houses a permanent collection of over 2.27 million items. The museum has its origins in the Great Exhibition of 1851, with which Henry Cole, the museum's first director, was involved in planning. Initially the collection was known as the Museum of Manufactures, and occupied other buildings. The Exhibition Road site was previously occupied by Brompton Park House; which was extended in 1857 to become the core of today's Museum collection, but the biggest step forward was made in 1899, when the foundation stone was laid by Queen Victoria of today's state-of-the-art galleries. Museum Director Sir Henry Cole, regarded it as 'a refuge for destitute collections'. More than a century later, the then Director Sir Roy Strong called it 'an extremely capacious handbag'. Cole intended that the museum attract the widest possible audience. He hoped that 'the evening opening of public museums may furnish a powerful antidote to the gin palace'. The V&A was also the first museum in the world to provide a public restaurant. Visitors can still enjoy dining with a suitable exhibit around them in the form of the grandeur of gilded domes, ornate tiles, and ceramic wall reliefs. In fact, it comprises three separate refreshment rooms, named after their principal designers: James Gamble, Edward Poynter, and William Morris — whose original creations remain today. The V&A buildings occupy 12.5 acres of land in South Kensington. Its collection spans 5,000 year of art from ancient times to the present day. The holdings of ceramics, glass, textiles, costumes, silver, ironwork, jewellery, furniture, medieval objects, sculpture, prints and printmaking, drawings and photographs are among the largest and most comprehensive in the world. Special exhibitions are regularly held, including 'blockbuster' celebrations of individual designers, subjects and periods. Further reading Links to external websites are not maintained by Bite Sized Britain. They are provided to give users access to additional information. Bite Sized Britain is not responsible for the content of these external websites.


--- [Announcing Explore the Collections • V&A Blog] ---
Former director Sir Roy Strong famously called the V&A ‘an extremely capacious handbag’. When you consider our collections span 5000 years of human creativity, and include several million objects, archives and library items, you begin to understand what he meant. Several decades on, we are now wrestling the contents of that handbag into a new digital form, helping to share them online. Though our collections have lived online for several decades now – in Search the Collections, Search the Archives and From the Collections (on the main website) – these different sites are separate. As I’ve written about before, we see an amazing opportunity to replace these silos by bringing together V&A objects with stories about those objects in a new experience: Explore the Collections. This is set to launch in early February. Why are we doing this? We’ve noticed that many, if not most, museum and gallery collections are held separately to their main website. Why? Because it’s quite a difficult task to unite object, library and archive data with editorial content. It’s difficult from a user experience perspective. It’s difficult from a data perspective. And it’s difficult in terms of content strategy. But that hasn’t deterred us. We relished the challenge, as we genuinely believe there is a huge value for our users in bringing together stories and object records (from our collections database) into one place. Our vision is that Explore the Collections will inspire people to develop their own creativity – with the opportunity to understand and research over one million eclectic objects. We believe that in bringing editorial content together with object data we will be a step further towards a genuinely seamless experience that offers up all we know about our objects in one place. It helps us address what we call the William Morris challenge – where currently all the knowledge and information we hold about the renowned Victorian designer is held in nine different systems, all using different data standards. We are taking a big step towards uniting all we know and hold about particular objects, themes and genres. Starting small Though the V&A’s holdings number more than 2.3 million objects, archives and library items, we’re focusing first on just the objects. We follow Agile methodology, which means we’ll be launching a smaller version (with just museum objects) so that we’re able to get it into the hands of our users sooner. The bulk of our digital content is about objects, so it made sense to start here, to test some of our thinking, and to see what value begins to emerge – for our users as well as for the organisation. We’re now looking at how to incorporate our archives and library items into Explore the Collections. So, having released an internal alpha version – which involved the redesign of object pages and a lightweight search functionality – we are now ready to launch a public beta early next month. The beta has involved replacing the whole of Search the Collections (object pages, search functionality and landing page) and incorporating editorial content on to the new object pages. Eventually, that will grow into the fully fledged Explore the Collections later this year, which will see us bringing together the V&A’s objects, editorial content and a suite of new pages that will show the many themes, techniques, genres, places and people that link our collections together. To that end, we’ve developed a new feature called ‘You May Also Like’, which helps people serendipitously discover other objects by presenting a smorgasbord of linked objects. We also have a better display of links to faceted terms from our controlled vocabulary, to help offer more onward journeys from the new object pages. Our user research revealed that people wanted more and bigger pictures. So, we’ve improved the object imagery by making it more prominent on the page. And we’ve also used this opportunity to include information about how you can use and license images, should you want to. In other words, we’ve worked hard to improve discoverability, making it easier for people to find the objects they’re looking for, but also offering them new ways to explore other related themes and content. Our design lead, Jack Craig, will be writing about this in more detail soon. What’s different? It was clear that, while we were not going to make changes for change’s sake, there were several improvements that would really help enhance the experience for our users. Search was a fundamental aspect of Search the Collections (the clue’s in the name!), and it continues to be for Explore the Collections. We’ve developed new search features that help people sift through our objects in smarter, more efficient ways. We’ve also explored how best to join up all our collections data with editorial content – so you can get the bigger picture when exploring an object or theme. We also know that lots of users exited the old object pages (on collections.vam.ac.uk), without realising that there was other, related, content on the main website (vam.ac.uk). So, we’ve found ways to extend those journeys and make them more useful by connecting object pages with other objects and content. Tell us what you think We’d like to get your feedback. So do take a look in a couple of weeks’ time at the new Explore the Collections and tell us what you think. We’ll be running a survey in the first few weeks after launch (which you can find by clicking the beta button) and we hope that your feedback can help us make our collections even more accessible than before.


--- [Great photographs are like visual poetry by Martin Barnes | Photoworks] ---
Each morning that I walk into work at the Victoria and Albert Museum, I am made strongly aware of the frame of reference surrounding the photographs that it is my job to care for and to make accessible on a physical and intellectual level. The building is designed to appear like a secular cathedral, or a palace of art, and is filled to the brim with sculpture, ceramics, textiles, jewellery, furniture, paintings, books, and many other beautiful things treasured as some of the best examples of fine and decorative art in the world. Ranging from around the 10th century to the present, the collections are gloriously diverse, and the galleries are full of serendipitous encounters. The first Director, Sir Henry Cole, described the Museum in 1857 as ‘a refuge for destitute collections’. More than a century later Sir Roy Strong called it ‘an extremely capacious handbag’. Everything is here, from the domestic to the palatial, from Victorian pincushions to Leonardo da Vinci’s notebooks. Like photography itself, it is a very broad church. Since I am asked to respond primarily as a museum curator to the question, ‘what makes a good photograph and against what criteria can these judgements be made?’ my response firstly has to be prefaced by the overarching context of the museum, and particularly the V&A, as an institution. The museum has a freely available Collections Development Policy (photographs can be found in section 4). Selecting acquisitions for the museum is a collaborative and consultative rather than a solitary act, a dialogue between the history of a collection and with photographers, collectors and curators both past and present. The V&A was the first museum in the world to collect photographs, beginning in 1852, and was the first to exhibit them, in 1858. The collection has its own existing and continually augmenting shape, hollowed out over time like the banks of a river. How we choose, assess and justify what we wish to acquire today links with what we already have, and how this complements other UK and international museum collections. However, this professional context naturally sits alongside a personal set of preferences and intuitive responses. The collective and individual decisions about what makes a good photograph are constantly in play. The V&A’s collections were formed at a time when museums aspired to be ‘encyclopaedic’, confidently attempting to collect representative selections of the designed world under one roof. Where original artifacts could not be had, plaster casts or photographs acted as surrogates. Providing exemplars from the past and present, it was intended to offset fears that the rapid mechanization seen in the mid-nineteenth century would reduce the quality of art and design. It was set up to act as a place of creative inspiration for artists and designers, and to inform public taste. In the 21st century, the encyclopaedic museum is seen as impossible, flawed by imperialistic single-point-of-view value judgments. We have been taught that all judgments are relative and biased, and are inflected according to our own institutional, cultural, gendered, social and economic backgrounds. (In recent years I have noticed a shift in terminology: I am no longer asked to be a ‘judge’ for certain competitions, but rather to be a ‘selector’. In this way, though I cannot ultimately ‘judge’ anyone’s work, I can ‘select’ it according to the criteria that is shaped by my institutional and personal framework). Yet even as the encyclopaedic and judgmental are exposed and understood in the contexts of the museum, many of the administrative structures and the trajectory of collections shaped by history remain, as do a residue of trust and authority. And people are still creatively inspired by its contents. Today, we collect at the museum to draw the material evidence of our visual culture into a zone of permanent, public ownership and make it available and meaningful to all. To do justice to contemporary practice and to serve our audience we try to present an artistically and intellectually rigorous account of our visual culture, looking at how objects are exemplary of a particular idea, subject or technology. This might take novel as well as traditional forms and should air diverse voices. We do make intrinsic value judgements (while constantly questioning and testing them) about quality (excellence), taste and ethics, measuring these things with regard to durability, cost, accessibility and representativeness. Everything we acquire is considered in terms of how we might use it to support a range of educational and learning activities, from exhibitions, publications, loans, research, school visits, lectures, web presence etc. The inscription over the main entrance is a quotation from the artist Sir Joshua Reynolds: ‘The excellence of every art must consist in the complete accomplishment of its purpose’. Even if somewhat nebulous (or maybe just inclusive?), the motto implies that objects housed in the museum must be fit for their stated purpose. This could apply to items made for functional purposes, or to objects of aesthetic contemplation, and sometimes to objects that marry the two. It is a sentiment that the Arts and Crafts Movement, and the Bauhaus would endorse. Put simply: does the thing achieve what it sets out to achieve within its own criteria? Do its materials and methods match its message? Moreover, does it elegantly solve a visual or practical question? In the case of a photograph, the considerations would include the appropriate balance of technical execution, formal qualities and conceptual ideas. For example: has the photographer chosen to work in black and white consciously because it suits the message he or she wants to convey in the photograph? Is the formal and technical execution of the work being commented on as part of a deliberate reassessment of those values on a conceptual level? Is the idea best expressed as a series of images in a book, on a screen or as a single print framed on a wall? Is there evidence of a rigour of thought, research, debate, editing, theoretical discussion and visual literacy that underpins the work? Assimilating all of these contexts and criteria – like learning musical scales and the rules of harmony in order to forget them and improvise – is as essential to appreciating photographs as it is to making them. For me personally, the ultimate test of an artwork rests on its ability to arrest me first, capturing my attention without anything other than its appearance. Good photographs neatly express the obscure and complex meeting point of illusion, reality and theatre. When made with skill and sensitivity they inhabit the wonderful hinterland where perception and imagination meaningfully collide. Great photographs are like visual poetry. By learning to recognise their multifaceted codes for transmitting information alongside emotion, my perceptive capacities are sharpened and my knowledge enriched. They capture a situation or emotion that transcends the everyday. Like a meditation, they move me beyond my small self. There is a hint of alchemy in photography too. Its historic processes and chemistry – silver salts and dark rooms – suggested magical transformations: capturing, extracting, refining and transmuting the ordinary into the precious. This analogue DNA has mapped over into the digital with consequences and ideas yet to be fully explored. The most intriguing photographs for me do not over-explain. Instead, they leave something that needles me. Though they brim with information and are derived from the real world, they always flirt ambiguously with reality. They provoke desire for knowledge, and seem to promise it, but ultimately fall profoundly silent and still. This enigmatic gap between promise and desire lends creative tension. It has been written about many times, but it still rings true: with their ability to freeze moments, photographs command pathos. In them, I am looking for a little of that sweet feeling of melancholy which is bound up with the passing of time. They remind me that it is simply good and precious to be alive. – Published 7 October 2013 Commissioned by Photoworks


--- [What to See at the Victoria and Albert Museums in 2025] ---
Above, from left: Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, the site of the new V&A East Storehouse; an item from Imane Ayissi’s Asseulenn collection; a rendering of the soon-to-open David Bowie Centre; preparing a costume at the David Bowie Centre. The Victoria and Albert, England’s museum dedicated to art and design, has always been a catchall. It opened in 1852 after London’s Great Exhibition as a place to permanently display some of that fair’s collected works. Over the years its mission and galleries, not to mention collections, have grown at a remarkable rate. “An extremely capacious handbag,” Sir Roy Strong, the V&A’s director from 1973 to 1987, once called it. Today it’s a family of museums stretching across London and to the near reaches of the empire. But along with holding staggering numbers of priceless and unique objects, the V&A has also consistently improved the way museumgoers experience art. It was the first to install interior lighting (gas, then electric) so the public could visit after work, the first to open a museum café, the first to stagger free admission times so students could access the collection during quiet moments. This month it continues its tradition of innovation by opening the V&A East Storehouse, which will hold half a million works “spanning every creative discipline, from Biba and Balenciaga to the Ballets Russes and the Sex Pistols to samurai swords.” Along with curated displays, it will offer a first-of-its-kind service, Order an Object, which allows visitors to book an appointment to see any of the Storehouse’s possessions. Later this year it will unveil the David Bowie Centre, with 90,000 pieces (Ziggy Stardust outfits, first drafts of “Fame”) from the late musician’s effects. Now comes the hard part. A visit to the East Storehouse is clearly a must, but what about the V&A’s numerous other spaces? Below is a list of upcoming and ongoing exhibitions at some of the institution’s most enticing locations. This story appears in the May 2025 issue of Town & Country. SUBSCRIBE NOW Norman Vanamee is the articles director of Town & Country.
