=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lost Boundaries | Isaac Julien]
Lost Boundaries is comprised of footage shot by Julien on location, in England in the summer of 1985, during the making of the Sankofa Film and Video Collective's first experimental feature film The Passion of Remembrance (1986), which he co-directed with Maureen Blackwood, another member of the collective. This work...
URL: https://www.isaacjulien.com/projects/33/

[Isaac Julien: What Freedom Is To Me - The Brooklyn Rail]
Entering Isaac Julien's forty-year career survey What Freedom Is To Me you run an edifying gauntlet, a hallway offering a peremptory review of the artist's vintage and seminal films: Territories (1984), This is Not An AIDS Advertisement (1987), Who Killed Colin Roach? (1983), and Lost Boundaries (2003). These works, created with the Sankofa Film and Video Collective, present the roots and ...
URL: https://brooklynrail.org/2023/06/artseen/Isaac-Julien-What-Freedom-Is-To-Me/

[The de Young museum presents Isaac Julien: I Dream a World]
Feb 3, 2025 — Lost Boundaries was made using Isaac Julien's personal super-8mm film archive, which spans the years 1981-1987. During this period, he made ...
URL: https://www.famsf.org/press-room/isaac-julien

[Isaac Julien - Wikipedia]
In this same year, Sir Isaac Julien's films were on view at the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery, Washington DC, and the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York. [18][19] The first, a solo presentation and multichannel installation Isaac Julien: Lessons of the Hour—Frederick Douglass, and the latter, the cinematic installation Once ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isaac_Julien

[‎Lost Boundaries (2003) directed by Isaac Julien - Letterboxd]
Lost Boundaries is comprised of footage shot by Julien on location, in England in the summer of 1985, during the making of the Sankofa film and video collective's first experimental feature film The Passion of Remembrance (1986), which he co-directed with Maureen Blackwood, another member of the collective. In recapturing those moment Lost Boundaries both deconstructs and foregrounds the means ...
URL: https://letterboxd.com/film/lost-boundaries-2003/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lost Boundaries | Isaac Julien] ---
Lost Boundaries is comprised of footage shot by Julien on location, in England in the summer of 1985, during the making of the Sankofa Film and Video Collective's first experimental feature film The Passion of Remembrance (1986), which he co-directed with Maureen Blackwood, another member of the collective. This work was specially produced for the exhibition Fate of Alien Modes at Secession, as a way of enigmatically portraying a forgotten and lost part of an experimental film-making practice that was specifically developed during the early eighties in what was known as the Independent Film Workshop Movement. In recapturing those moments, Lost Boundaries both deconstructs and foregrounds the means of 16mm film production while weaving together a fragile community of Black artists and actors who came to prominence at a time when debates in film theory - such as those of the Screen film journal and of "third cinema" discourses where cinema was intertwined within (Brechtian) filmmaking practices - were at the forefront of forging a new politics of artistic representation. A Black avant-garde. The silent images of Lost Boundaries return us to the unanswered questions of The Passion of Remembrance's press release (the causes of gender/race identity wars which have been reconfigured in our global times as the politics of gender and racial intolerance). The images show us the in-between moments of filming and filmmaking - as in a home-newsreel of the film crew, the film equipment and its various apparatus, its actors and directors are filmed in anonymous landscape (a sand quarry), waiting about and repeating various modes of non-performance and action - all revealing a certain intimacy. The two main actors in The Passion of Remembrance, Annie Domingo and Joseph Charles, ritualistically perform their lines, step in and out of fog-machine produced mist, and between camera-takes wander as if lost until returning to their "real-life" character roles. The filming of this "film-time", which often goes unrecorded (very few Black film collectives filmed their own activity), has revealed other moments that belong in a British film archive, but an archive that has never been constituted within the dominant regimes of the British national heritage. Nonetheless, this re-translation of material into a gallery space constitutes a counter-history which coul equally belong to a history of a (repressed) conceptual-visual/film arts movement in Europe. In Lost Boundaries, as the actors, directors and film crew are shown preparing to start filming, we witness the meeting of these artists for the first and the last time; for whenever one is filming, it is the non-time that exists between film-takes that is the alien experience of filming. For film-time is always a distilled time, a time of suspension that is abandoned when the capturing of that other-time, film-time, is caught on rolls of celluloid in what we call cinema proper. The complexities of sharing certain destinies are intricately linked in Lost Boundaries, not only because these super-8 images capture this non-film time, but they can be seen to show the death of time itself. In this sense, the visualisation of this necrophilic act is itself a mourning of a Black archive that never was - and is now lost. But Julien's making of the piece resurrebts the spectre of a history of artistic practice that traverses the film/theory nexus of the seventies and eighties, and, although now long gone, it is perhaps waiting in time for a future generation to discover. How strange this film-memory has become, returned to us in our so-called new century through the space-time-travel of the exhibition space. - Isaac Julien, 'Silent Images Out of Film-Time', Fate of Alien Modes, Secession catalogue


--- [Isaac Julien: What Freedom Is To Me - The Brooklyn Rail] ---
Word count: 1035 Paragraphs: 6 On View Tate BritainIsaac Julien: What Freedom Is To Me April 26–August 20, 2023 London Entering Isaac Julien’s forty-year career survey What Freedom Is To Me you run an edifying gauntlet, a hallway offering a peremptory review of the artist’s vintage and seminal films: Territories (1984), This is Not An AIDS Advertisement (1987), Who Killed Colin Roach? (1983), and Lost Boundaries (2003). These works, created with the Sankofa Film and Video Collective, present the roots and fundamental toolkit of Julien’s approach to filmmaking and social justice. Julien has always zeroed in on vibrant (and usually activist) personalities and then embroidered their lives with both found and dramatically recreated footage, as well as lyrical interludes of fantasy. In the wider perspective of the exhibition, the early works are sidelined in favor of a selection of his more finished and cinematographic work ranging from 1989 to the present. What Freedom Is To Me is a heavily choreographed experience presenting the viewer, one must assume, with the body of work and style of production that the artist and curators want to have make the greatest impact. Architect David Adjaye designed the exhibition layout with the artist. From our initial primer in vintage Julien we are guided to his most recent work, Once Again…(Statues Never Die) (2022), and beyond that, the viewer finds themselves at the center of a six-pointed star-shaped layout, composed of film screens. Six paths radiate from a central atrium, and down each of these alleys we find a different story, or stories: that of Frederick Douglass in Lessons of the Hour (2019); Langston Hughes in Looking for Langston (1989); the Italian-Brazilian architect Lina Bo Bardi in Lina Bo Bardi—A Marvellous Entanglement (2019); the tragedy of the Morecambe Bay cocklepickers in Ten Thousand Waves (2010); a ghost story set in Sir John Soane’s Museum in Vagabondia (2000), and so on. The exhibition is dense; most of the videos clock in at around 20–40 minutes long, so to truly wrap one’s head around Julien, one must spend most of a day in the exhibition, or return more than once. It is a tribute to the British art-viewing public and the artist that most viewers I witnessed planted themselves on the benches or folding chairs provided, or sat on the floor, and watched the videos all the way through, or at least for long stretches of time. But it was this sense of giving over oneself and one’s most valuable asset—one’s time—that was embodied in the exhibition design. Once in the belly of the show, the possible choices took on an Alice-in-Wonderland surrealism. One could simply perambulate from path to path (with different carpet colors) watching the movies in this space, devoid of any sense of time. In between the passageways are Julien’s large prints, stills, and vignettes from the films, as well as display cases of ephemera—props, costumes, and the like—from Julien’s various productions. The intention of the artist, curators, and designer seems to be that the viewer become completely immersed within Julien’s filmic expression. This megaplex presentation of Isaac Julien’s oeuvre wonderfully highlights correlations between the filmmaker’s mature works, allowing viewers the rare chance to make connections among the full-length films at their disposal. For example, the full-grown glowing and smiling queer cherubs in Looking for Langston are avatars of the immortality of subversive gay culture in the face of the constant tragedy of the AIDS epidemic, whose scourge was at its height when Julien made the film in 1989. The cherubs return thirty-three years later in Once Again…(Statues Never Die), this time becoming symbols for the love between the cultural theorist, Alain Locke, and the philosopher and critic, Albert C. Barnes. Felliniesque bursts by actors into spontaneous performance appear in many of Julien’s works. In Lina Bo Bardi—A Marvellous Entanglement, the movements of a diaphanous twirling dancer in red mimic the curves of a spiral staircase the architect designed for the Museu de Arte Moderna da Bahia in Salvador, Brazil, as if the dancer had channeled the spirit of architecture. In Ten Thousand Waves, the similarly ethereal sea goddess Mazu floats over cities and through clouds, eventually alighting on a contemporary skyscraper. Both female entities are mystical beings interrupting or augmenting the biographical and historical narratives that the filmmaker weaves in his elaborate and operatic cinematographic assemblages. Julien’s experimentation with multiple screens as a means of slowing down or expanding time can also be closely examined from screening space to screening space. While the ten screens of Lessons of the Hour seek to imitate the disorienting variety of paintings of different size and genre one sees in a salon-style hang in a pre-Modernist gallery, Once Again…(Statues Never Die) uses five large screens, mylar wall mirroring, and the sculptures of Richmond Barthé and Matthew Angelo Harrison to generate a dystopian museum space. It’s a spatial arrangement that mirrors the conversations on screen between Locke and Albert C. Barnes (creator of the Barnes Foundation), the struggle for parity between African Art and Western Art, and the need to decolonize collections and repatriate stolen works. It is a lyrical experience to lose oneself in Julien’s vision, and to exist outside of time. Sadly, the downside to Julien’s atemporality is the realization that things have not changed much, and progress is an illusion. Who Killed Colin Roach?, a film Julien created in 1983 to heighten awareness of the murder of a young Black man at the hands of London police officers is, at this moment in time forty years later, mirrored by the murder of Jordan Neely on the New York City subway last month. In Lessons of the Hour Julien conjures up the person of Frederick Douglass, played by actor Ray Fearon, lecturing a room of modern day viewers and poignantly reminding us of the potency and necessity of his words 160 years later. In the ten channel film, Douglass philosophizes on the power of the photographic image to enlighten the viewer, a precept that Julien seeks to convey in all of these works. William Corwin is a sculptor and writer based in New York. Besides the Rail, he writes regularly for Art & Antiques and Art Papers. He is an avid opera fan.


--- [The de Young museum presents Isaac Julien: I Dream a World] ---
The de Young museum presents Isaac Julien: I Dream a World – the first US retrospective of internationally renowned artist Isaac Julien Feb 3, 2025 Features film installations and videos made over the course of 25 years by pioneering artist and filmmaker Isaac Julien, presenting a compelling fusion of fact and fiction, social critique, and aesthetic immersion. Major multi-channel video installation – Lessons of the Hour (2019) – acquired by the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco. de Young museum / April 12 – July 13, 2025 SAN FRANCISCO, February 3 – The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco (the “Fine Arts Museums”) are pleased to announce Isaac Julien: I Dream a World. Over the past 25 years, artist Isaac Julien has developed a singular, choreographic style of moving image exhibition in the form of immersive multichannel film and video installations. Distinguished by their compelling fusion of fact and fiction, social critique, and aesthetic immersion, Julien’s works offer poetic reflections on political and cultural events that have shaped the lives of individuals and societies around the world—especially for those on the margins of power. Featuring 10 major video installations made across Europe, Africa, the Caribbean, Asia, and the Americas between 1999 and 2022 plus early films, I Dream a World is the first comprehensive survey of Julien’s work in a US museum setting and the largest exhibition focusing on Julien’s film and video installation works to date. “Isaac Julien is one of the most influential voices in visual culture, Black cultural studies, and queer independent cinema working today, and we are honored to present his first US retrospective at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco,” said Thomas P. Campbell, Director and CEO of the Fine Arts Museums. “In groundbreaking works such as Lessons of the Hour (2019), which we were privileged to acquire in 2023, Julien engages with the urgent social issues of our time and invites viewers to rethink the dominant historical narratives of the global north.” Whether centering historical moments such as the first American-led expedition to reach the North Pole in 1908-09, or the often fateful but ongoing migration of North African refugees across the Mediterranean Sea, Julien’s subjects are never locked in one time or place. The same is true for his portraits of individuals like abolitionist Frederick Douglass and architect Lina Bo Bardi, or his subversive address of cultural institutions like Hollywood and the Museum as arbiters and archives of social ideals, constructs, and hierarchies of the West. “Favoring nonlinear narrative techniques such as reiteration, reflection, and transposition in his orchestration of images and sounds across multiple screens, Julien folds the past onto the present and the present onto the past. In each work, Julien weaves different temporalities, ideas, and imaginations into substantiations of a multi-dimensional selfhood that is not merely in, but of this world. In doing so he allows history and memory to emerge as intimate and desirous visions of a way of being,” remarked Claudia Schmuckli, organizing curator and Holly Johnson and Parker Harris Chief Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art at the Fine Arts Museums. The first major exhibition at the Fine Arts Museums dedicated entirely to an artist working with the moving image in the form of multiscreen video installations, I Dream a World will start with Julien’s groundbreaking films Looking for Langston (1989), which gave definition to the genre of New Queer Cinema, Lost Boundaries (1981-87) and This Is Not An Aids Advertisement (1987). Unfolding through the de Young’s Herbst Special Exhibition galleries, the installations will be grouped according to their thematic resonance and connected through a central nave featuring archival materials. The installations on view include Baltimore (2003), A Marvellous Entanglement (2019), Western Union: Small Boats (2007), Lessons of the Hour (2019) - a recent FAMSF acquisition, The Long Road to Mazatlán (1999), Paradise Omeros (2002), True North (2004), Fantôme Afrique (2005), concluding with Julien’s most recent work Once Again . . . (Statues Never Die) (2022). Ten Thousand Waves (2010) will be on view in Wilsey Court, one of the de Young’s free public spaces. Isaac Julien: I Dream a World is organized by the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco and curated by Claudia Schmuckli, Holly Johnson and Parker Harris Chief Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art. Opening April 12, 2025 at the de Young museum, the exhibition will run through July 13, 2025. About the Featured Works Once Again . . . (Statues Never Die) (2022) (31’34”) Once Again . . . (Statues Never Die) (2022) explores the reciprocal impact of the work of Alain Locke, a philosopher, educator, and cultural critic of the Harlem Renaissance, and Albert E. Barnes, the pioneering art collector who promoted a democratic, inclusive educational enterprise. Once Again... (Statues Never Die) explores Locke’s engagement with the Barnes collection, honoring both Locke’s contribution to the arts while inviting critical conversations about the African material culture that influenced the Black cultural movement. Imagining his installation as a form of “poetic restitution,” Julien alludes to contemporary restitution debates - examining the display and significance of African material culture in Western art museums. A Marvellous Entanglement (2019) (39’06”) A Marvellous Entanglement (2019) is a meditation on the work and legacy of the visionary modernist architect and designer Lina Bo Bardi (1914-1992). A central figure of Latin American modernist architecture, Bo Bardi devoted her working life to promoting the social and cultural potential of art, architecture and design. Focusing on Bo Bardi’s public projects instead of private edifices, Isaac Julien’s immersive installation emphasizes her social, political and cultural views, alongside her philosophical reflections. Lessons of the Hour (2019) (28’46”) The 10-screen film installation Lessons of the Hour (2019) presents an immersive and poetic portrait of the orator, philosopher, intellectual and self-liberated freedom fighter Frederick Douglass (1818-1895), who was born into slavery in Maryland, USA, and who campaigned against slavery for freedom and social justice. The most photographed American of his era, Douglass had a keen understanding of how technology could influence human relations. Douglass’ own reflections on visual culture, in which he anticipated Walter Benjamin’s idea of the reproducibility of images and the loss of their aura, gained him international recognition as an artist and cultural theorist. His lectures on photography gave him a keen understanding of technologies that shape human relationships. Filmed at sites in London, Edinburgh and at Douglass’ home in Washington D.C., Julien’s film combines tableaux vivants which imagine scenes from Douglass’s public and private life, with footage from the present day. In the film, the character of Douglass interacts with other cultural icons of his time and features prominently his wife Anna Murray Douglass who was responsible for helping Douglass achieve not only his freedom, but also supported him throughout his life. Ten Thousand Waves (2010) (49’41”) Ten Thousand Waves (2010) commemorates the Morecambe Bay tragedy of 2004, in which more than 20 Chinese cockle pickers drowned on a flooded sandbank off the coast in northwest England. Julien interweaves contemporary Chinese culture with its ancient myths—including the fable of the goddess Mazu, which comes from the Fujian Province, from where the Morecambe Bay workers originated. Filmed on location in Guangxi province and Shanghai, the work extends Julien’s meditation on global histories of human migration, here set against a background of Chinese history, legend, and landscape. The installation is staged on the streets of both modern and old Shanghai, and includes music and sounds that fuse Eastern and Western traditions, as well as collaborators ranging from calligrapher Gong Fagen, the film and video artist Yang Fudong, cinematographer Zhao Xiaoshi, and poet Wang Ping, from whom Julien commissioned “Small Boats,” a poem that is recited in Ten Thousand Waves. Western Union: small boats (2007) (18’22”) Western Union: small boats (2007) reflects on the harrowing fates of individuals who attempt the 100-mile journey from North Africa across the Mediterranean Sea to the southern coast of Sicily. Transferred from large vessels into overcrowded fishing boats, some may find rescue, but just as often they tragically sink to their deaths. The film juxtaposes images of the Mediterranean passage—Black bodies crowded in rafts, laid out in reflective blankets on Italian shores, drowning in tempestuous waters—with the tranquil spaces of European tourism and luxury. Employing references to Italian cinema, and the work of Luchino Visconti, the installation utilizes dance and the movement of bodies, echoing these journeys but also rearticulating them while tracing the effects of trauma not just on people but also on the built environment and the life it engenders. Fantôme Afrique (2005) (16’ 55”) Named after the 1934 book L’Afrique Fantôme by Michel Leiris, which details the author’s participation in a French state-sponsored anthropological expedition, Fantôme Afrique (2005) reflects on the entwined legacies of colonial occupation and postcolonial self-determination. Shot in Burkina Faso, the film weaves together imagery of Ouagadougou, the country’s capital and center for cinema in Africa, with that of rural landscapes, architecture, and archival footage from expeditions and African history. The “trickster” and “witness” characters figure in this poignant meditation on the encounters between local and global cultures, where the ghosts of history linger amid the realities of the day. True North (2004) (14’20”) True North (2004) is inspired by the story of Matthew Henson, a Black explorer who accompanied Robert Peary on a 1909 expedition led by two Indigenous guides to find the “true north.” He and their guides were written out of history by Peary, who claimed the honor of being the first to discover the North Pole for himself alone. Julien reexamines the history of polar exploration in terms of race and gender. The installation offers a visual counter-reading of space and time and its relation to counter histories. It contests binaries that are present in many notations of the expedition and the reason, order, and stability are replaced by irrational meanderings, symbolic gestures within the unceasing monumentality of the ice, anticipating the climate change debates. Baltimore (2003) (11’ 53”) Filmed in Baltimore at the Great Blacks in Wax Museum, the Peabody Library, and the Walters Museum, Baltimore (2003) stars the famed blaxploitation film director and actor Melvin Van Peebles and an archetypal, Foxy Brown–type character. Employing the look and feel of blaxploitation cinema as the characters navigate these radically different institutions and their claims to memory, the work explores the many ways that history is constructed, documented, silenced, or foretold. Incorporating high-tech special effects and time-bending elements, Julien seeks to create a “third dimension,” a space that anticipates Afrofuturism and its conflation of the past, present, and future of Black cultures in the United States. Julien appropriates the styles, gestures, language and iconography of the blaxploitation genre to create a work that defies easy categorization and, like some of Julien’s other works in this exhibition (Once Again . . . (Statues Never Die) from 2022 or A Marvellous Entanglement from 2019), it uses a museum as a key location and theme. Paradise Omeros (2002) (20’36”) Paradise Omeros (2002) is inspired by a poem Omeros by Nobel Prize-winning Saint Lucian poet and playwright Derek Walcott. This riveting 3-screen installation delves into the fantasies and feelings of “Creoleness”—the mixed language, the hybrid mental states, and the shifting sense of place that arise when one is formed within multiple cultures. It is set in London in the 1960s and on the Caribbean island of Saint Lucia. The film’s protagonist, Achille, appears in both locations, first working as a waiter at a brilliantly colorful tropical resort and later wandering through bleak and gray London housing projects as the dreamlike scenes of the ocean and a lively West Indian party in his parents’ apartment speak to the fragile beauty of his world. Using the recurrent imagery of the sea, the film sweeps the viewer into a poetic meditation on the ebb and flow of self and stranger, love and hate, war and peace, xenophobe and xenophile. The Long Road to Mazatlán (1999) (18’27”) The Long Road to Mazatlán (1999) is a meditation on the aesthetics and politics of the classic Hollywood western and the figure of the cowboy as constitutive to American ideals of masculinity, individuality and freedom. Filmed in and around San Antonio, Texas, in collaboration with Venezuela-born choreographer Javier de Frutos, the film captures the erotically charged interchanges between a young Latino man and a working cowboy. Combining performance and dance, The Long Road to Mazatlán explores the social construction of masculinity within mythic landscapes of the American West. The film gained Julien a nomination for the Turner Prize, bestowed since 1984 by Tate for an outstanding exhibition or presentation by a British artist. Looking for Langston (1989) (46’29”) Filmed in black and white, Looking for Langston (1989) is a lyrical exploration of the private world of poet, social activist, novelist, playwright, and columnist Langston Hughes and his fellow Black artists and writers of the Harlem Renaissance in the 1920s. The film is widely considered a landmark in the exploration of artistic expression, the nature of desire, and the reciprocity of the gaze and it would become the hallmark of what American scholar and film critic B. Ruby Rich termed New Queer Cinema. Julien shot Looking for Langston in the 1980s in London but set it in the jazz world of 1920s Harlem where his use of low-key lighting and sculptural smoke entangled historical periodization, and created a self-conscious timelessness. While Julien was directing the film, he paid close attention to the photographs of James Van der Zee, George Platt Lynes and Robert Mapplethorpe, and the viewer can notice a relation between images imbued with references to the history of 1930s black-and-white African American photography and 1980s British Queer cultures. Early works Lost Boundaries was made using Isaac Julien’s personal super-8mm film archive, which spans the years 1981-1987. During this period, he made several films in diarist form. This work was produced as a way of portraying a lost part of an experimental film-making practice that developed during the early 1980s in what was known as the Independent Film Workshop Movement. Lost Boundaries comprises footage shot on location, in England in the summer of 1985. It was made during the making of the Sankofa film and video collective’s first experimental feature film The Passion of Remembrance (1986), which he co-directed with Maureen Blackwood, another member of the collective. Lost Boundaries deconstructs, and foregrounds, the means of 16mm film production. Julien has described the film as ‘weaving together a fragile community of Black artists and actors who came to prominence at a time when debates in film theory were at the forefront of establishing a new politics of artistic representation, a Black avant-garde.' This Is Not An Aids Advertisement (1987) With its pink haze, seductive soundtrack and stylistic approach, This Is Not An Aids Advertisement celebrates sexual desire and queer relationships. Featuring Julien himself, it is a radical rejection of the fear that emerged during the HIV epidemic, focusing on love, desire and romance. This Is Not An Aids Advertisement was conceived as a work of activism made for television broadcast at the height of the AIDS crisis. Julien asks: ‘How is sexual desire surviving under the modern regime of AIDS-fearing morality?’ The video is an important work of LGBTQIA+ history that continues to resonate powerfully; encouraging us to reflect on what has changed. About Isaac Julien Born in London in 1960, Isaac Julien, KBE is a critically acclaimed British artist and filmmaker. In his immersive film installation work, reality gives way to dreams and their kaleidoscopic breaking down of barriers between film, dance, photography, music, theatre, painting and sculpture. Julien’s works interrelate history with fantasy, film with photography and poetry with sculpture, to create singular cultural and historical figures that feature in his installations. His work invites viewers into immersive states of being, both political and critical through its transcendental, poetic approach. The true shape and power of Julien’s art comes into focus using alternative imaginations with multi-layered visuals and non-hierarchical narrative techniques. With his intricate interweaving of historical, textual, cinematic, musical, and artistic moments and traditions into novel constellations and affective affinities, he creates captivating images and seductive sounds that produce both novel ideas and the space for them to breathe. Temporal fusion and its visual strategies are central to Julien’s works, where the creative reimagination of historical and contemporary blend into what Julien, quoting bell hooks, often refers to as “diasporic dream spaces.” As we experience Isaac Julien’s extraordinary installations, we enter into a diasporic dream space to create new counter-imaginary possibilities. Recent international solo exhibitions include Isaac Julien: What Freedom Is to Me, Bonnefanten Museum, Maastricht, Netherlands (2024); K21, Dusseldorf, Germany (2023); Tate Britain, London (2023); Lina Bo Bardi, A Marvellous Entanglement, Philadelphia Museum of Art (2023), Bechtler Museum of Modern Art, Charlotte, North Carolina (2022), and MAXXI, Rome (2020–2021); Lessons of the Hour, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Virginia (2022–2023), and McEvoy Foundation for the Arts, San Francisco (2020–2021); Once Again . . . (Statues Never Die), Barnes Foundation, Philadelphia (2022); Western Union: Small Boats, Neuberger Museum, Purchase, New York (2020); Looking for Langston, Tate Britain, London (2019); and Playtime, Los Angeles County Museum of Art (2019). In 2018, Julien joined the faculty at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where he is a distinguished professor of the arts and leads the Moving Image Lab together with arts professor Mark Nash. Catalogue Isaac Julien: I Dream A World will be accompanied by a fully illustrated catalogue featuring newly commissioned essays and archival materials, many previously unpublished, that relate to the works in the exhibition and give insight into the artist’s working process and recognition of the archive as an important repository of history and memory. Edited by Claudia Schmuckli, the publication will feature an introduction by Schmuckli and essays by Hilton Als, Lisa E.Bloom, Christopher Leigh Connery, Peter Ericksson, Jennifer A. González, Dan Hicks, Michael Kelly, Josė Esteban Muñoz, Mark Nash, B. Ruby Rich, and Armond White. Exhibition Organization This exhibition is organized by the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco. Support for this exhibition has been generously provided by Bank of America. Presenting Sponsor Ford Foundation Lead Sponsor Art Mentor Foundation Lucerne Major Support Stanlee Gatti Rebecca and Cal Henderson The Herbst Foundation, Inc. Significant Support Jeffrey N. Dauber and Marc A. Levin Sakurako and William Fisher Brook Hartzell and Tad Freese Tara and Bryan Meehan Joanna Miller The Helen & Will Webster Foundation Andrew W. Mellon Foundation University of California, Santa Cruz Generous Support Jessica Silverman Pro Av Saarikko Oy Victoria Miro Gwynned Vitello Lisa and Jim Zanze William H. Donner Foundation Additional support is provided in memory of Mary Beth Hagey, and by Lizelle and Martin Green, Lore Harp McGovern and Katie and Matt Paige. About the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, comprising the de Young in Golden Gate Park and the Legion of Honor in Lincoln Park, is the largest public arts institution in San Francisco. The de Young museum originated from the 1894 California Midwinter International Exposition in Golden Gate Park. The present copper-clad landmark building, designed by Herzog & de Meuron, opened in 2005. Reflecting an active conversation among cultures, perspectives, and time periods, the collections on view include American painting, sculpture, and decorative arts from the 17th to the 21st centuries; arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas; costume and textile arts; and international modern and contemporary art. The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco are located on land unceded by the Ramaytush Ohlone, who are the original inhabitants of what is now the San Francisco Peninsula. The greater Bay Area is also the ancestral territory of other Ohlone peoples, as well as the Miwok, Yokuts, and Patwin. We acknowledge, recognize, and honor the Indigenous ancestors, elders, and descendants whose nations and communities have lived in the Bay Area over many generations and continue to do so today. We respect the enduring relationships that exist between Indigenous peoples and their homelands. We are committed to partnering with Indigenous communities to raise awareness of their legacy and engage with the history of the region, the impacts of genocide, and the dynamics of settler colonialism that persist today. Media Contacts Morgan Braitberg, Publicist, press@famsf.org Helena Nordstrom, Director of Communications, hnordstrom@famsf.org


--- [Isaac Julien - Wikipedia] ---
Sir Isaac Julien  (born 21 February 1960) is a British installation artist, filmmaker, and Distinguished Professor of the Arts at the University of California, Santa Cruz.


--- [‎Lost Boundaries (2003) directed by Isaac Julien - Letterboxd] ---
No content
