=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History]
History It all began in Athens back in 1972 when the Hellenic International School (H.I.S.) was founded in response to the need for an international English language school that could provide a first-class education through British and American programmes of study. The first year it had approximately 50 students.
URL: https://isa.edu.gr/page/history

[International School of Athens - International Schools in Greece ...]
The name was changed to International School of Athens in May 2005 to better reflect the nature of the school. The school is accredited by Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, and in 2001 was re-accredited for another 10-year period.
URL: https://internationalschoolguide.com/greece/athens/international_school_athens.htm

[A Brief History of the TASIS Family of Schools]
The school was a big success and operated under the TASIS name until 2004, at which point it became the International School of Athens (ISA). TASIS Cyprus 1983-1986
URL: https://www.tasis.ch/cf_news/view.cfm?newsid=1489

[International School of Athens - Wikipedia]
The International School of Athens (ISA) is an independent and an International Baccalaureate (IB) School. ISA, formerly TASIS, a privately held school located in Kifissia, a suburb of Athens, Greece.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_School_of_Athens

[International School of Athens - ibsiga.wordpress.com]
Apr 1, 2011 · A boarding school aimed mainly at expatriate families in the Middle East was established by the TASIS organization (The American School in Switzerland) in 1979, subsequently merging with HIS to form TASIS Hellenic International School. The addition of as many as 160 students from abroad gave TASIS Hellenic an even stronger international profile.
URL: https://ibsiga.wordpress.com/schools/international-school-of-athens/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History] ---
It all began in Athens back in 1972 when the Hellenic International School (H.I.S.) was founded in response to the need for an international English language school that could provide a first-class education through British and American programmes of study. The first year it had approximately 50 students. In 1979, shortly after taking over the English track of the Ursulines’ primary school, H.I.S. became TASIS Hellenic International School under Mary Crist Fleming, the founder of TASIS (The American School in Switzerland) and TASIS England. While ownership changed and enrolment grew, the school remained steadfast in its commitment to provide a world-class education with global perspective. In 1984, it was also awarded school-wide accreditation from the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. In 1998, the school changed ownership. Six years later the name was changed to International School of Athens (I.S.A.) in order to reflectthe increasing international nature of the school and its curriculum. The school’s ongoing commitment to excellence in education, enhanced by international perspective, earned for the school the status of IB World School, with the adoption of the IB Diploma Programme. In 2024, ISA changed ownership and joined Dukes Education, a privately owned group of outstanding mainstream independent colleges, schools, and nurseries, as well as a provider of summer schools and university consultancy services founded in 2015. Today, ISA continues to provide an international education with global perspective, based on the principle of non-discrimination. “Our open and unbiased admissions policy is due to our belief in children; every child, in the ideal environment, can – and does – attain excellence in education.The personal growth that takes place here is what makes our school special, and what excellence in education is all about, because despite their diverse abilities, backgrounds and beliefs, our students graduate as principled, well-rounded individuals who practice critical thinking, compassion and tolerance throughout their lives; they graduate as world citizens. And this is an accomplishment of which we are very proud.”


--- [International School of Athens - International Schools in Greece ...] ---
| ||||||||||| International School of AthensInternational School of Athens was founded in 1979 as TASIS Hellenic International School to serve the needs of the international community of Athens. The name was changed to International School of Athens in May 2005 to better reflect the nature of the school. The school is accredited by Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, and in 2001 was re-accredited for another 10-year period. The student body contains students from over 35 nationalities, indicating the international nature of the school. CURRICULUM International School of Athens is an IB World School, and is one of the few schools authorized by the IBO to offer all three programs: PYP, MYP and Diploma Program. In addition, the school has a college preparatory program in grades 11 and 12, which offers high standards for those interested in an alternative to the Diploma Program. Qualified students who attend at least two years of the MYP may earn a certificate at the end of the 10th grade. As an authorized school, ISA carefully adheres to the standards and criteria set by the IBO. Students learn English, mathematics, social studies, science, languages (Greek, French and Spanish), the arts, technology and physical education. STAFF The teaching staff at ISA is dedicated and talented. All teachers are experienced and certified in their home countries. The Greek Ministry of Education validates appointment of all teachers on a yearly basis. Teachers represent many nationalities, e. g., American, British, Canadian, Australian and Greek. FACILITIES The school is located in Kifissia, one of the most attractive northern suburbs of Athens. The attractive school building has been adapted for educational purposes from a neo-classical, four-story former hotel. In addition to classrooms, the premises include a double computer lab, science labs, two libraries, art studios, and a theatre for dramatic and musical performances. The Counseling and Careers Center houses a variety of counselling functions, including a vigorous University Placement office. For sports and physical education, the school has basketball/volleyball courts and a playground for the younger children. Students also have the use of a nearby closed gymnasium and soccer field. SCHOOL YEAR AND SCHOOL DAY The school year is from September through June. The school day runs from 8: 45 to 3: 30 for the Primary School, and from 8: 30 to 3: 50 for the Middle and High Schools. Students have two short and one long break during the school day. Clubs are incorporated into the curriculum, and students have the opportunity to pursue their interests in a variety of clubs. EDUCATIONAL PHILOSOPHY International School of Athens is an academic community comprised of students, faculty, and parents united in a philosophy which is dedicated to fostering in all of its students a love of learning, self-discipline and self-knowledge. The community upholds the belief that what a school chooses to teach is reflected in its regard for its human relationships, to its appreciation of cultural diversity and the manner to which it interacts with all of its members. The community is proud of its 'sense of family' and the friendships and camaraderie that it inspires. The curriculum is broad-based and flexible. A low faculty student ratio caters to the individual needs of each student and contributes to a learning environment that stimulates personal, intellectual, artistic, social, and physical development. The close interaction of all members of the ISA community effectively encourages the students to achieve high personal standards of academic success, maximises each student's potential and contributes to the total educational experience. School Profile: Founded 1979 225 students, aged 3 - 18 International curriculum, pyp, myp, diploma, college preparatory 35 staff fees: 5300-8400/yrAddress: Xenias and Artemidos Streets P. O. Box 51051 GR-145 10 Kifissia Athens, Greece Tel: 30 210 6233-888 Fax: 30 210 6233-160 info@isa.edu. gr |


--- [A Brief History of the TASIS Family of Schools] ---
No content


--- [International School of Athens - Wikipedia] ---
The International School of Athens (ISA) is an independent and an International Baccalaureate (IB) School. ISA, formerly TASIS, a privately held school located in Kifissia, a suburb of Athens, Greece.


--- [International School of Athens - ibsiga.wordpress.com] ---
In 1972, with the conviction that Athens needed a truly International school The Hellenic International School in Athens (HIS) was founded, absorbing the English-speaking Ursuline Primary School. HIS offered American and British programmes to international students from all over Athens and developed a high reputation for academics. A boarding school aimed mainly at expatriate families in the Middle East was established by the TASIS organization (The American School in Switzerland) in 1979, subsequently merging with HIS to form TASIS Hellenic International School. The addition of as many as 160 students from abroad gave TASIS Hellenic an even stronger international profile. The boarding programme later was established in Varibobi at the charming “Auberge”, and then at a traditional villa in Kifissia. When the boarding school closed in 2005, the villa was adapted for the use of young students, and Melina’s Kindergarten was born. The great success of this programme led to the establishment of Melina’s Junior Kindergarten for children aged two and three. In 1998, following many years of offering first GCE O-levels and then IGCSE, as well as GCE A-levels, the school switched from the British programme to the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme. It was felt that this change better served the needs of our students, helping them prepare for the 21st century world. When our sister school, the International School of Larissa, was founded in 2003, the name of our school was changed to the International School of Athens to better reflect the nature of the school and to create a unified identity for the two schools.
