=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The race against time for smarter development | 2021 Science Report]
The UNESCO Science Report's subtitle, 'the race against time for smarter development', is an allusion to these dual development priorities. Read more Tell us what you think of the report via this reader satisfaction survey.
URL: https://www.unesco.org/reports/science/2021/en

[(PDF) UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter ...]
Jun 27, 2021 — This seventh edition of the report monitors the development path that countries have been following over the past five years from the perspective of science ...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/352414618_UNESCO_Science_Report_the_Race_Against_Time_for_Smarter_Development_2021

[The UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development]
The UNESCO Science Report arrives at a crucial juncture as we approach the halfway mark for delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. According to the report, there has been an international alignment of development priorities over the past five years, with countries of all income levels prioritizing their transition towards ...
URL: https://www.interacademies.org/event/unesco-science-report-race-against-time-smarter-development

[UNESCO Science Report: the race against time for smarter development ...]
The UNESCO Science Report's subtitle, 'the race against time for smarter development', captures this urgency. Since 2015, most countries have aligned their national policies with The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and are engaged in a gradual transition to 'green' economies.
URL: https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000377250.locale=en

[UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development]
This seventh edition of the UNESCO Science Report monitors the development path that countries have been following over the past five years from the perspective of science governance. Countries will need to invest more in research and innovation, if
URL: https://www.academia.edu/50849727/UNESCO_Science_Report_the_Race_Against_Time_for_Smarter_Development


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The race against time for smarter development | 2021 Science Report] ---
The race against time for smarter development Published in June 2021, the seventh edition in the series explores how countries used science over the previous five years to realize a digitally and ecologically smart future. This report is a masterpiece. Development priorities have aligned over the past five years Countries of all income levels are prioritizing their transition to digital and green economies. On the one hand, countries have committed to reaching their ambitious Sustainable Development Goals by the 2030 deadline. In parallel, most countries are convinced that their future economic competitiveness will depend upon how quickly they manage to transition to digital societies. The UNESCO Science Report’s subtitle, ‘the race against time for smarter development’, is an allusion to these dual development priorities. Read more Tell us what you think of the report via this reader satisfaction survey. Women still a minority in fields driving the digital revolution Women remain a minority in digital information technology, computing, physics, mathematics and engineering. These are the fields that are driving the digital revolution and so, many of the jobs of tomorrow. This trend is even more problematic as there is a skills shortage in many of these fields, such as in artificial intelligence. To right this gender imbalance, strenuous efforts need to be made at government, academic and corporate levels not only to attract girls and women to these fields but, above all, to retain them. Read more Click on the map for the latest trends in your country or region (chapters 4–26) Today’s challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss, decline of ocean health and pandemics are all global. This is why we must mobilize scientists and researchers from all over the world. The race against time for smarter development We are in a race against time for smarter development. Are we using science to build the future we want? This is the question asked by the latest UNESCO Science Report, released on 11 June 2021. Contact Contact the UNESCO Science Report Team


--- [(PDF) UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter ...] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20210914065619/http://www.researchgate.net/publication/352414618_UNESCO_Science_Report_the_Race_Against_Time_for_Smarter_Development_2021 BookPDF Available UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development (2021) The full text is freely available from UNESCO: https://www.unesco.org/reports/science/2021/en/download-the-report and directly via UNESDOC: https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000377433 | It is striking how development priorities have aligned over the past five years. Countries of all income levels are prioritizing their transition to digital and ‘green’ economies, in parallel. This dual transition reflects a double imperative. On the one hand, the clock is ticking for countries to reach their Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. On the other, countries are convinced that their future economic competitiveness will depend upon how quickly they transition to digital societies. The UNESCO Science Report’s subtitle, ‘the race against time for smarter development’, is an allusion to these twin priorities. This seventh edition of the report monitors the development path that countries have been following over the past five years from the perspective of science governance. It documents the rapid societal transformation under way, which offers new opportunities for social and economic experimentation but also risks exacerbating social inequalities, unless safeguards are put in place. The report concludes that countries will need to invest more in research and innovation, if they are to succeed in their dual digital and green transition. More than 30 countries have already raised their research spending since 2014, in line with their commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals. Despite this progress, eight out of ten countries still devote less than 1% of GDP to research, perpetuating their dependence on foreign technologies. Since the private sector will need to drive much of this dual green and digital transition, governments have been striving to make it easier for the private sector to innovate through novel policy instruments such as digital innovation hubs where companies can ‘test before they invest’ in digital technologies. Some governments are also seeking to improve the status of researchers through pay rises and other means. The global researcher population has surged since 2014. The Covid-19 pandemic has energized knowledge production systems. This dynamic builds on the trend towards greater international scientific collaboration, which bodes well for tackling this and other global challenges such as climate change and biodiversity loss. However, sustainability science is not yet mainstream in academic publishing, according to a new UNESCO study, even though countries are investing more than before in green technologies. Phasing out energy subsidies is high on the agenda of policymakers in several Middle Eastern and North African countries. The impact of such reform can vary widely depending on the country and policy. This paper contributes to the existing literature by examining the phasing out of energy subsidies in Egypt under alternative economic scenarios. In particular, we consider Egypt's short- and long-term economic adjustment under different assumptions on labor market flexibility, spending options of subsidy savings, and alternative social protection measures. Results from economy-wide model simulations suggest that energy subsidy cuts may hamper economic growth in the short term, but depending on the policy measure, will improve growth perspectives and household welfare in the longer term. Yet, findings also point to likely adverse impacts of the reform on household consumption in the short and longer run. To counteract such negative impacts, targeted social protection measures should be continued and scaled up in parallel with the phasing out of energy subsidies. The software industry is strongly influenced by knowledge and innovation. The ability to develop new solutions and services is considered essential to firm survival and growth. The innovation process, being long and costly, relies heavily on interorganizational relations and the interaction between different types of actors (e.g., intermediary support organizations, universities, R&D centers) that can advance knowledge transfer and innovation. Consequently, innovation is seen as an open and interactive process. Many researches related to economic geography have demonstrated that the different types of proximity can be an important tool to facilitate interactions and knowledge exchange. The Information and communication technology (ICT) sector is recognized as a key driving force for Lebanon’s economy. It is a fast growing sector with an estimated market size of USD 436.2 million in 2016. Furthermore, Lebanon is emerging as a leading exporter of software development and services in the region. The methodology of this paper is mainly based on a literature review and interviews based on semi-structured interviews, which were conducted face to face, or by phone. The first objective of this paper is to analyze the characteristics and dynamics of innovation within the Lebanese software industry. The second objective is to provide a framework to analyze how the different types of proximity affect the innovation and the interactions inter-actors within this industry. The paper demonstrates that innovation in the Lebanese software sector is often driven by the demand and the client’s needs and request. In addition, we noticed that in Lebanon, the local R&D structures or the universities do not support this sector. Furthermore, the support offered by the Lebanese government is still weak and this is manly related to the complexity of the political and social system in Lebanon. Les technologies de l'information et de la communication (TIC) jouent un rôle majeur dans l'économie, elles sont créatrices de richesse, de renouveau, de mutation, de bouleversement et de développement économique. Si elles sont déterminantes dans l’ancrage territorial des entreprises, il ne semble pas cependant qu'elles soient le seul élément. En effet, une entreprise choisit un territoire selon de multiples facteurs que nous déterminerons dans cette recherche. De ce fait, l’équation du développement économique local et les TIC devient un enjeu de création de nouvelles richesses indispensables au dynamisme d'une collectivité, mais aussi d'insertion dans l'économie globale. Cependant, il est primordial de saisir la nature et le contenu de la mobilisation des acteurs locaux (pouvoirs publics, entreprises, associations, citoyens,…), quel est le degré de leur adhésion pour la démocratisation des TIC ? Dans quelle mesure ont-ils intégré l’enjeu compétitif et l’intérêt de l’ouverture sur le monde extérieur par le biais des TIC ? L’objectif de notre recherche est de déterminer les relations transversales existantes entre les pouvoirs publics et les TIC. Est-ce que cette évolution s'exprime à travers les projets menés par les collectivités locales qui développent des politiques économiques à destination des entreprises (existantes ou en création) ? Ou bien, les TIC sont-ils considérés dans ce cas là, comme catalyseurs et vecteurs d’attraction pour les entreprises (existantes ou en création) ? Science, Technology, Innovation, and Economic Growth in Arab Countries explores fresh approaches to STI policy formulation and implementation in the region, with applications to developing countries elsewhere. Developing useful contexts for studying Arab policies about science, technology, and innovation requires trustworthy data and judgment. Omar Bizri brings together both in this book. Data from sources such as the World Bank, UNESCO, the International Telecommunication Union, Nature, Science and recent surveys and policy formulation initiatives anchor this study among national initiatives that focus on essential needs, including safe water and food production, renewable energy utilization, and job and enterprise creation. For those eager to understand the challenges of STI capacity building, this book explores the many connections between technological change and economic growth. Qatar campus leaders confident of surviving diplomatic crisis. Times Higher Education Sep 2018 E Bothwell Bothwell, E. (2018) Qatar campus leaders confident of surviving diplomatic crisis. Times Higher Education, 21 September. UK Lebanon Tech Hub receives long term backing from Banque du Liban and British Government following 'exceptional' early stage results Jan 2017 BW (2017) UK Lebanon Tech Hub receives long term backing from Banque du Liban and British Government following 'exceptional' early stage results. Business Wire: San Francisco, California, USA. Lebanon's Circular 331: the birth of an industry. Wamda May 2017 M J Daoud Daoud, M. J. (2017) Lebanon's Circular 331: the birth of an industry. Wamda, 23 May. DEWA (2020) Mohammed bin Rashid inaugurates DEWA's R&D Centre at Solar Park Jan 2018 DEWA (2020) Mohammed bin Rashid inaugurates DEWA's R&D Centre at Solar Park. Dubai Electricity & Water Authority: Dubai. -(2018) World Green Economy Summit 2018 to accelerate discussion on green capital. Press release, 11 September. Dubai Electricity & Water Authority : Dubai. Lucid is considering an electric-car plant in Saudi Arabia Jan 2021 S Edelstein Edelstein, S. (2021) Lucid is considering an electric-car plant in Saudi Arabia. Green Car Reports, 8 January. Gulf education hub 'irreparably damaged' by Qatar crisis. Times Higher Education Jun 2017 J Elmes Elmes, J. (2017) Gulf education hub 'irreparably damaged' by Qatar crisis. Times Higher Education, 8 June.


--- [The UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development] ---
The UNESCO Science Report arrives at a crucial juncture as we approach the halfway mark for delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. According to the report, there has been an international alignment of development priorities over the past five years, with countries of all income levels prioritizing their transition towards digital and ‘green’ economies in parallel. The launch ceremony on 11 June will feature a video and expert discussion of the report’s key findings. Following an introductory message by the UNESCO Director-General, Audrey Azoulay, and interventions by the Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences, Shamila Nair-Bedouelle, and the Editor in Chief of the report, Susan Schneegans, six of the report’s authors will provide an overview of trends in their region. These regional overviews will be followed by a question-and-answer session. The launch event will take place online from 16:00 to 18:00 (CET). - Download the provisional programme for the launch event in English | French - Register to join the Zoom event - Chapter preview: To be smart, the digital revolution will need to be inclusive: excerpt from the UNESCO Science report Should you have any further queries, please do not hesitate to write to sciencereport@unesco.org(link sends e-mail).


--- [UNESCO Science Report: the race against time for smarter development ...] ---
4 captures 24 Jun 2021 - 18 Jun 2025 May JUN Jul 18 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250618174127/https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000377250.locale=en


--- [UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development] ---
No content
