=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES - Dictionary of Canadian Biography]
SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES, secretary and athlete; b. 22 Aug. 1906 in Hamilton, Ont., daughter of Margaret Edith Crowe and Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead; d. there unmarried 27 March 1927. Velma Springstead has come to typify the young women who took up sports in the heady post-suffragist years of the early 1920s in industrial cities such as Hamilton, and who established the basis for women ...
URL: https://www.biographi.ca/en/bio.php?id_nbr=7971

[Velma Springstead - Infinite Women]
Velma Springstead has come to typify the young women who took up sports in the heady post-suffragist years of the early 1920s in industrial cities such as Hamilton, and who established the basis for women's participation ever since. Energetic and cheerful, she worked as secretary to the sales manager of the Tuckett Tobacco Company Limited (founded by George Elias Tuckett*), taught Sunday ...
URL: https://www.infinite-women.com/women/velma-springstead/

[Velma Springstead - Wikipedia]
Velma Springstead (22 August 1906 - 27 March 1927) was a Canadian track and field athlete. Springstead won the gold medal in high jump during the 1925 Canadian Track and Field Championships and became a member of the first women's track and field team of Canada to compete internationally.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Velma_Springstead

[Springsted, Velma Agnes - UEL Canada]
It was to be awarded on the basis of "performance, sportsmanship and behaviour," and exemplified the contribution she had made to Canadian women's sport. Secretary and athlete; b. 22 Aug. 1906 in Hamilton, Ont., daughter of Margaret Edith Crowe and Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead; d. there unmarried 27 March 1927..
URL: https://uelcanada.ca/springsted-velma-agnes/

[SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES - Dictionnaire biographique du Canada]
SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES, secrétaire et athlète, née le 22 août 1906 à Hamilton, Ontario, fille de Margaret Edith Crowe et de Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead&nbsp;; décédée célibataire dans cette ville le 27 mars 1927.
URL: https://www.biographi.ca/fr/showbio.aspbioid=42104


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES - Dictionary of Canadian Biography] ---
Source: Link SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES, secretary and athlete; b. 22 Aug. 1906 in Hamilton, Ont., daughter of Margaret Edith Crowe and Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead; d. there unmarried 27 March 1927. Velma Springstead has come to typify the young women who took up sports in the heady post-suffragist years of the early 1920s in industrial cities such as Hamilton, and who established the basis for women’s participation ever since. Energetic and cheerful, she worked as secretary to the sales manager of the Tuckett Tobacco Company Limited (founded by George Elias Tuckett*), taught Sunday school at Calvin Presbyterian Church, and studied the piano. But her greatest love was sports. Starting as a teenager, she played softball and basketball for the Hamilton Ladies Club, and regularly won track and field honours in sprinting, hurdling, and high jumping. In 1925 she helped legitimize vigorous competition for Canadian women as a member of the first team ever to compete in international track and field. That year the all-male Amateur Athletic Union of Canada was invited to send a women’s team to London, England, to compete against the national teams of Great Britain and Czechoslovakia. Not wanting to organize it, but unwilling to risk public censure by turning the invitation down, the AAU asked Alexandrine Gibb*, a Toronto brokerage secretary and volunteer sports leader, to select and manage the team. In the hastily convened trials at Varsity Stadium in Toronto on 11 July, Springstead outleaped the Canadian high jump record holder, Innes Bramley, to make the team. Wearing a billowing tunic, she cleared four feet seven inches with the scissors kick. The trip abroad gave participants the athletic stimulus, broadened horizons, and adventure that often come with international competition, and helped elevate women’s sport from obscurity to celebrity. During their journey overseas, via Quebec and Liverpool, the team of ten athletes, Gibb, and a chaperon were fêted by the Canadian government, the Canadian Pacific Railway, and the British organizers and besieged by reporters and photographers. The British handily won the meet at Stamford Bridge in London on 1 August, and the Czechoslovakians finished second, but the Canadians were “by no means disgraced.” Springstead finished third in the high jump and fourth in the hurdles, and infused the entire team with enthusiasm and determination. She was a continual presence around the track, encouraging her teammates and winning over rivals and spectators with her exuberance. Her fellow competitors voted her the Lord Decies Trophy as the all-round athlete of the meet. The Stamford Bridge experience convinced Gibb and others that Canadian women deserved a permanent place in international sporting competition, but that they would need their own organization to ensure it. As soon as they could, in 1926, they formed the Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation of Canada, and began to spread “girls’ sports run by girls” across Canada. In 1928, under Gibbs’s leadership, the WAAF took the first Canadian women’s Olympic team to Amsterdam in association with the AAU. Though an early favourite for a berth on that team, Springstead never had a chance to compete. In March 1927 she was hospitalized with severe chest pains and died three days later of pneumonia. But her ambition and zest for life continued to inspire the leaders of Canadian women’s sports. Following her death the WAAF made health a priority, insisting that participants pass a medical every season and pressing doctors to donate their service to impoverished athletes. The policy became a hallmark of the organization. In 1932 Gibb and the WAAF created the Velma Springstead Trophy to honour the best Canadian female athlete each year. It was to be awarded on the basis of “performance, sportsmanship and behaviour,” and exemplified the contribution she had made to Canadian women’s sport. Canadian athletics, 1832–1992, comp. Bill McNulty and Ted Radcliffe ([Richmond, B.C.], 1992). DHB, vol.3. [Alexandrine Gibb?], “Report of the women’s athletic team, which competed in international games held at Stamford Bridge, London, Eng., August 1st, 1925,” in Canadian Olympic Committee, Report, 1925 Games held in Chamonix and Paris, France . . . , comp. J. H. Crocker (n.p., [1925?]). Bruce Kidd, The struggle for Canadian sport (Toronto, 1996). N. R. Raine, “Girls invade track and diamond,” Maclean’s (Toronto), 38 (1925), no.16: 12–13, 62–63. Bruce Kidd, “SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES,” in Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 15, University of Toronto/Université Laval, 2003–, accessed March 3, 2026, https://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15E.html. | Permalink: | https://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15E.html | | Author of Article: | Bruce Kidd | | Title of Article: | SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES | | Publication Name: | Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 15 | | Publisher: | University of Toronto/Université Laval | | Year of publication: | 2005 | | Year of revision: | 2005 | | Access Date: | March 3, 2026 |


--- [Velma Springstead - Infinite Women] ---
Born: 22 August 1906, Canada Died: 27 March 1927 Country most active: Canada Also known as: NA This biography is shared from The Dictionary of Canadian Biography, in line with the Creative Commons licensing. See below for full attribution. SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES, secretary and athlete; b. 22 Aug. 1906 in Hamilton, Ont., daughter of Margaret Edith Crowe and Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead; d. there unmarried 27 March 1927. Velma Springstead has come to typify the young women who took up sports in the heady post-suffragist years of the early 1920s in industrial cities such as Hamilton, and who established the basis for women’s participation ever since. Energetic and cheerful, she worked as secretary to the sales manager of the Tuckett Tobacco Company Limited (founded by George Elias Tuckett*), taught Sunday school at Calvin Presbyterian Church, and studied the piano. But her greatest love was sports. Starting as a teenager, she played softball and basketball for the Hamilton Ladies Club, and regularly won track and field honours in sprinting, hurdling, and high jumping. In 1925 she helped legitimize vigorous competition for Canadian women as a member of the first team ever to compete in international track and field. That year the all-male Amateur Athletic Union of Canada was invited to send a women’s team to London, England, to compete against the national teams of Great Britain and Czechoslovakia. Not wanting to organize it, but unwilling to risk public censure by turning the invitation down, the AAU asked Alexandrine Gibb*, a Toronto brokerage secretary and volunteer sports leader, to select and manage the team. In the hastily convened trials at Varsity Stadium in Toronto on 11 July, Springstead outleaped the Canadian high jump record holder, Innes Bramley, to make the team. Wearing a billowing tunic, she cleared four feet seven inches with the scissors kick. The trip abroad gave participants the athletic stimulus, broadened horizons, and adventure that often come with international competition, and helped elevate women’s sport from obscurity to celebrity. During their journey overseas, via Quebec and Liverpool, the team of ten athletes, Gibb, and a chaperon were fêted by the Canadian government, the Canadian Pacific Railway, and the British organizers and besieged by reporters and photographers. The British handily won the meet at Stamford Bridge in London on 1 August, and the Czechoslovakians finished second, but the Canadians were “by no means disgraced.” Springstead finished third in the high jump and fourth in the hurdles, and infused the entire team with enthusiasm and determination. She was a continual presence around the track, encouraging her teammates and winning over rivals and spectators with her exuberance. Her fellow competitors voted her the Lord Decies Trophy as the all-round athlete of the meet. The Stamford Bridge experience convinced Gibb and others that Canadian women deserved a permanent place in international sporting competition, but that they would need their own organization to ensure it. As soon as they could, in 1926, they formed the Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation of Canada, and began to spread “girls’ sports run by girls” across Canada. In 1928, under Gibbs’s leadership, the WAAF took the first Canadian women’s Olympic team to Amsterdam in association with the AAU. Though an early favourite for a berth on that team, Springstead never had a chance to compete. In March 1927 she was hospitalized with severe chest pains and died three days later of pneumonia. But her ambition and zest for life continued to inspire the leaders of Canadian women’s sports. Following her death the WAAF made health a priority, insisting that participants pass a medical every season and pressing doctors to donate their service to impoverished athletes. The policy became a hallmark of the organization. In 1932 Gibb and the WAAF created the Velma Springstead Trophy to honour the best Canadian female athlete each year. It was to be awarded on the basis of “performance, sportsmanship and behaviour,” and exemplified the contribution she had made to Canadian women’s sport. Work cited Bruce Kidd, “SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES,” in Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 15, University of Toronto/Université Laval, 2003–, accessed August 14, 2025, https://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15E.html.


--- [Velma Springstead - Wikipedia] ---
Velma Springstead (22 August 1906 – 27 March 1927) was a Canadian track and field athlete. Springstead won the gold medal in high jump during the 1925 Canadian Track and Field Championships and became a member of the first women's track and field team of Canada to compete internationally. After her death, Springstead was posthumously honoured with the creation of the Velma Springstead Trophy and was inducted into the Hamilton Sports Hall of Fame in 2011.


--- [Springsted, Velma Agnes - UEL Canada] ---
- DICTIONARY OF CANADIAN BIOGRAPHY ARTICLE: Bruce Kidd, “SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES,” in Dictionary of Canadian Biography, vol. 15, University of Toronto/Université Laval, 2003–. http://www.biographi.ca/en/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15E.html - DCB profile notes: - Secretary and athlete; b. 22 Aug. 1906 in Hamilton, Ont., daughter of Margaret Edith Crowe and Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead; d. there unmarried 27 March 1927.. - Velma Springstead has come to typify the young women who took up sports in the heady post-suffragist years of the early 1920s in industrial cities such as Hamilton, and who established the basis for women’s participation ever since. Energetic and cheerful, she worked as secretary to the sales manager of the Tuckett Tobacco Company Limited (founded by George Elias Tuckett), taught Sunday school at Calvin Presbyterian Church, and studied the piano. But her greatest love was sports. Starting as a teenager, she played softball and basketball for the Hamilton Ladies Club, and regularly won track and field honours in sprinting, hurdling, and high jumping. In 1925 she helped legitimize vigorous competition for Canadian women as a member of the first team ever to compete in international track and field. - That year the all-male Amateur Athletic Union of Canada was invited to send a women’s team to London, England, to compete against the national teams of Great Britain and Czechoslovakia. Not wanting to organize it, but unwilling to risk public censure by turning the invitation down, the AAU asked Alexandrine Gibb, a Toronto brokerage secretary and volunteer sports leader, to select and manage the team. In the hastily convened trials at Varsity Stadium in Toronto on 11 July, Springstead outleaped the Canadian high jump record holder, Innes Bramley, to make the team. Wearing a billowing tunic, she cleared four feet seven inches with the scissors kick. - The British handily won the meet at Stamford Bridge in London on 1 August, and the Czechoslovakians finished second, but the Canadians were “by no means disgraced.” Springstead finished third in the high jump and fourth in the hurdles, and infused the entire team with enthusiasm and determination. She was a continual presence around the track, encouraging her teammates and winning over rivals and spectators with her exuberance. Her fellow competitors voted her the Lord Decies Trophy as the all-round athlete of the meet. - The Stamford Bridge experience convinced Gibb and others that Canadian women deserved a permanent place in international sporting competition, but that they would need their own organization to ensure it. As soon as they could, in 1926, they formed the Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation of Canada, and began to spread “girls’ sports run by girls” across Canada. In 1928, under Gibbs’s leadership, the WAAF took the first Canadian women’s Olympic team to Amsterdam in association with the AAU. - Though an early favourite for a berth on that team, Springstead never had a chance to compete. In March 1927 she was hospitalized with severe chest pains and died three days later of pneumonia. But her ambition and zest for life continued to inspire the leaders of Canadian women’s sports. Following her death the WAAF made health a priority, insisting that participants pass a medical every season and pressing doctors to donate their service to impoverished athletes. The policy became a hallmark of the organization. In 1932 Gibb and the WAAF created the Velma Springstead Trophy to honour the best Canadian female athlete each year. It was to be awarded on the basis of “performance, sportsmanship and behaviour,” and exemplified the contribution she had made to Canadian women’s sport. - Second Great Granddaughter of United Empire Loyalist listed in Loyalist Directory: https://uelac.ca/loyalist-directory/detail/?wpda_search_column_id=8802 - Find a Grave: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/16752510/velma-a-springstead


--- [SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES - Dictionnaire biographique du Canada] ---
Provenance : Lien SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES, secrétaire et athlète, née le 22 août 1906 à Hamilton, Ontario, fille de Margaret Edith Crowe et de Bernice Lavelle (Val) Springstead ; décédée célibataire dans cette ville le 27 mars 1927. Velma Agnes Springstead incarne ces jeunes femmes qui, au début des années 1920, sous l’impulsion des victoires remportées par le mouvement en faveur du suffrage féminin, entrèrent sur la scène sportive dans des villes industrielles comme Hamilton et jetèrent ainsi les bases d’une participation féminine qui continue depuis lors. D’un naturel gai et dynamique, Mlle Springstead travaillait comme secrétaire du directeur des ventes à la Tuckett Tobacco Company Limited (entreprise fondée par George Elias Tuckett*), enseignait à l’école du dimanche de l’église presbytérienne Calvin et apprenait le piano. Cependant, sa passion était le sport. Dès l’adolescence, elle avait joué au softball et au basket-ball dans le Hamilton Ladies Club et, régulièrement, elle se distinguait dans des épreuves de sprint, de course de haies et de saut en hauteur. En 1925, elle contribua à légitimer la participation des Canadiennes à des compétitions de haut niveau en faisant partie de la toute première équipe inscrite à des épreuves internationales d’athlétisme. Cette année-là, l’Amateur Athletic Union of Canada, association exclusivement masculine, fut invitée à envoyer à Londres une équipe féminine qui affronterait les équipes nationales de Grande-Bretagne et de Tchécoslovaquie. L’association ne souhaitait nullement former une telle équipe mais ne voulait pas risquer la réprobation publique en déclinant l’invitation. Elle demanda donc à Alexandrine Gibb*, secrétaire d’une maison torontoise de courtage et organisatrice bénévole de sport, de sélectionner et de diriger les athlètes. Des épreuves convoquées en toute hâte se tinrent au Varsity Stadium de Toronto le 11 juillet. Mlle Springstead réussit à être choisie en battant la détentrice du record canadien de saut en hauteur, Innes Bramley. Vêtue d’une tunique flottante, elle atteignit quatre pieds sept pouces avec un saut en ciseau. Le voyage à l’étranger stimula les participantes, élargit leurs horizons et les plongea dans l’atmosphère d’aventure qui entoure souvent les compétitions internationales. De plus, il contribua à sortir le sport féminin de l’ombre. Pendant la traversée, via Québec et Liverpool, les dix athlètes, accompagnées d’Alexandrine Gibb et d’un chaperon, furent assaillies par des reporters et des photographes. Le gouvernement du Canada, la Compagnie du chemin de fer canadien du Pacifique et les organisateurs britanniques leur firent fête. Les Britanniques remportèrent aisément la compétition, tenue à Stamford Bridge à Londres le 1er août, et les Tchécoslovaques se classèrent au deuxième rang, mais les Canadiennes ne firent « pas du tout mauvaise figure ». Velma Agnes Springstead termina troisième au saut en hauteur et quatrième à la course de haies. Elle insuffla enthousiasme et détermination à toute l’équipe. Toujours présente aux abords de la piste, elle encouragea ses coéquipières et conquit des équipes rivales et des spectateurs par son exubérance. À l’issue d’un vote des concurrentes, elle remporta le trophée Lord Decies, décerné à l’athlète la plus complète de la rencontre. L’expérience de Stamford Bridge convainquit Alexandrine Gibb et d’autres que les Canadiennes méritaient de participer pour de bon aux compétitions internationales mais que, pour y arriver, elles devaient former leur propre organisation. Dès que possible, soit en 1926, elles fondèrent la Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation of Canada et se mirent à promouvoir dans tout le pays « des sports pour les filles organisés par des filles ». En 1928, sous la direction d’Alexandrine Gibb, la fédération conduisit la première équipe olympique de Canadiennes à Amsterdam en collaboration avec l’Amateur Athletic Union. Velma Agnes Springstead aurait dû faire partie de cette équipe, mais en fait, elle n’eut jamais la chance de participer aux Jeux olympiques. Hospitalisée en mars 1927 pour de graves douleurs à la poitrine, elle avait succombé à une pneumonie trois jours plus tard. Son ambition et son goût de la vie continuèrent néanmoins d’inspirer les organisatrices de sport féminin au Canada. Après son décès, la Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation inscrivit la santé au nombre de ses priorités : elle pressait les participantes de subir un examen médical chaque saison et exhortait les médecins à fournir gracieusement leurs services aux athlètes démunies. L’organisation resta fidèle à cette ligne de conduite. En 1932, pour rappeler la contribution de Velma Agnes Springstead au sport féminin, Alexandrine Gibb et la Women’s Amateur Athletic Federation donnèrent son nom à un trophée décerné chaque année à la meilleure athlète canadienne en fonction de trois critères : « performance, esprit sportif et conduite ». Canadian athletics, 1832–1992, Bill McNulty et Ted Radcliffe, compil. ([Richmond, C.-B.], 1992).— DHB, 3.— [Alexandrine Gibb ?], « Report of the women’s athletic team, which competed in international games held at Stamford Bridge, London, Eng., August 1st, 1925 », dans Canadian Olympic Committee, Report, 1925 Games held in Chamonix and Paris, France [...], J. H. Crocker, compil. (s.l., [1925 ?]).— Bruce Kidd, The struggle for Canadian sport (Toronto, 1996).— N. R. Raine, « Girls invade track and diamond », Maclean’s (Toronto), 38 (1925), nº 16 : 12s., 62s Bruce Kidd, « SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES », dans Dictionnaire biographique du Canada, vol. 15, Université Laval/University of Toronto, 2003– , consulté le 3 mars 2026, https://www.biographi.ca/fr/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15F.html. | Permalien: | https://www.biographi.ca/fr/bio/springstead_velma_agnes_15F.html | | Auteur de l'article: | Bruce Kidd | | Titre de l'article: | SPRINGSTEAD, VELMA AGNES | | Titre de la publication: | Dictionnaire biographique du Canada, vol. 15 | | Éditeur: | Université Laval/University of Toronto | | Année de la publication: | 2005 | | Année de la révision: | 2005 | | Date de consultation: | 3 mars 2026 |
