=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sheikh Abdul Rashid - Wikipedia]
Sheikh Abdul Rashid (born 19 August 1967), better known as Engineer Rashid, is an Indian politician, and currently member of Lok Sabha representing Baramulla constituency in Jammu and Kashmir, India.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheikh_Abdul_Rashid

[Who Is Engineer Rashid? Baramulla MP Attacked In Tihar Jail By ...]
Sheikh Abdul Rashid, popularly known as Engineer Rashid, was born in Langate. He is a Kashmiri separatist at least. In 1978, Rashid joined the People's Conference led by Abdul Ghani Lone.
URL: https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/India/who-is-engineer-rashid-baramulla-mp-attacked-in-tihar-jail-by-transgender-inmates/ar-AA1LZ5ll

[Sheikh Abdul Rashid - Wikiwand]
Sheikh Abdul Rashid (born 19 August 1967), better known as Engineer Rashid, is an Indian politician, and currently member of Lok Sabha representing Baramulla constituency in Jammu and Kashmir, India. In September 2024, he was released on interim bail to campaign during the assembly elections. [1]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Sheikh_Abdul_Rashid

[Engineer Rashid Age, Wife, Children, Family, Biography]
Some Lesser Known Facts About Engineer Rashid Engineer Rashid became involved in secessionist politics as a teenager. After completing his education, he worked as a construction engineer in the Jammu and Kashmir Projects Construction Corporation.
URL: https://starsunfolded.com/engineer-rashid/

[Kashmir Elections 2024: Engineer Rashid's Surprising Win Signals ...]
Jun 22, 2024 — Abdul Rashid Sheikh's electoral win in Baramulla, while in jail, against National Conference's Omar Abdullah, indicates a shift in voter sentiment.
URL: https://frontline.thehindu.com/politics/engineer-rashid-arrested-by-nia-on-money-laundering-charges-wins-from-jail-baramulla-kashmir/article68312092.ece


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sheikh Abdul Rashid - Wikipedia] ---
Sheikh Abdul Rashid (born 19 August 1967), better known as Engineer Rashid, is an Indian politician, and currently member of Lok Sabha representing Baramulla constituency in Jammu and Kashmir, India. In September 2024, he was released on interim bail to campaign during the assembly elections.
Earlier he was a member of the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly, from the Langate constituency in Handwara. He is the founder and patron of the Jammu and Kashmir Awami Ittehad Party. He is famous for his speeches and is known as the Pain of Al-Baen (Plough) which is the symbol of National Conference.


--- [Who Is Engineer Rashid? Baramulla MP Attacked In Tihar Jail By ...] ---
No content


--- [Sheikh Abdul Rashid - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Engineer Rashid Age, Wife, Children, Family, Biography] ---
Engineer Rashid Age, Wife, Children, Family, Biography Quick Info→ Wife: Fahmeeda Begum Hometown: Langate, Jammu And Kashmir Age: 57 Years | Bio/Wiki | | |---|---| | Full Name | Abdul Rashid Sheikh | | Profession | Politician | | Physical Stats & More | | | Height (approx.) | 5' 7" (170 cm) | | Eye Colour | Brown | | Hair Colour | Salt and Pepper (Semi-bald) | | Politics | | | Political Party | • Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference •Awami Ittehad Party | | Political Journey | • Joined Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference (1978) • Contested as an Independent candidate and won the Legislative Assembly Election from Langate, Jammu and Kashmir (2008) • Founded Awami Ittehad Party (2013) • Contested as an Independent candidate and won the Legislative Assembly Election from Langate constituency (2014) • Contested as an Independent candidate and lost the Lok Sabha Election from Baramulla, Jammu and Kashmir (2019) • Contested as an Independent candidate and won the Lok Sabha Election from Baramulla (2024) | | Personal Life | | | Date of Birth | 19 August 1967 (Saturday) | | Age (as of 2024) | 57 Years | | Birthplace | Mawar, Langate, Jammu and Kashmir | | Zodiac sign | Leo | | Signature | | | Nationality | Indian | | Hometown | Langate, Jammu and Kashmir | | College/University | • University of Kashmir, Jammu & Kashmir • Kashmir Government Polytechnic College, Gogji Bagh, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir | | Educational Qualification | • BSC Medical from the University of Kashmir (1988) • Diploma (Civil Engineering) from the Kashmir Government Polytechnic College (1991) | | Religion | Islam | | Food Habit | Non-vegetarian | | Controversies | • Mercy petition for Afzal Guru In 2011, he tried to pass a resolution in the state assembly, seeking mercy petition for Afzal Guru, who was a co-conspirator of the Indian Parliament attack in 2001. • Demand for revocations of 1862 Beef Ban Law In 2014, he demanded a revocation for the Beef Ban Law which was passed in 1862 and bans slaughter, sale and possession of beef in Kashmir. • Demand for apology from Kashmiri Pandits In April 2015, he demanded Kashmiri Pandits to provide an unconditional apology for leaving Kashmir and said, "Kashmiri Pandits must seek unconditional apology from the majority community for migration and leaving them behind at the mercy of guns, grenades, bullets, crack-downs, PSAs, AFSPA, custodial killings, rapes, murders, forced labor, custodial disappearances, humiliation and rule of lawlessness" • Attacked for hosting a beef party On 8 October 2015, he was attacked by a few BJP MLAs inside the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly for hosting a beef party. On 19 October 2015, he was attacked with black ink and mobil oil by members of the Hindu Sena in New Delhi. [1]The Hindu • Detained for marching towards the Chief Minister Mufti Sayeed's residence In November 2015, he was detained while marching towards the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mufti Sayeed's residence in an attempt to boycott the killing of an engineering student, Gowhar Ahmad Dar, who was killed by a tear smoke shell allegedly fired by police to disperse a stone-pelting mob. • Demand for plebiscite In 2016, he stated that Kashmir is not an integral part of India or Pakistan. He demanded for a plebiscite (vote) to let the people of Kahmir decide where they want to go, and said, "You need to give the Kashmiris the right to decided whether they want to be part of this side of Kashmir or that side of Kashmir or if they want something else" • Support for Pakistan's cricket team In 2017, after India lost to Pakistan in the Champions Trophy final, a television journalist asked him whom did he support. He replied that he supported Pakistan's cricket team. • Arrested under UAPA In 2017, he was summoned by NIA in a case related to terror funding. In August 2019, soon after the removal of Article 370, Engineer Rashid was charged with UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) by the National Investigation Agency and arrested (NIA). On 16 March 2022, he was further accused for inciting disaffection against the government of India and armed forces and accepting funds from Pakistan. | | Social Media | • Instagram | | Relationships & More | | | Marital Status | Married | | Family | | | Wife/Spouse | Fehmeeda Begum (House helper) | | Children | Son(s)-2 • Abrar Rashid • Asrar Rashid Daughter-1 • Shabnam Rashid | | Parents | Father- Khazir Mohammad Sheikh Mother- Rahmi Begum | | Siblings | Brother- Khursheed Ahmad Sheikh (Teacher) | | Money Factor | | | Salary (approx.) (as of 2024) | Rs. 2 lacs + other allowances (as an MP) | | Assets/Properties (as of 2024) | Movable Assets • Deposits in Banks, Financial Institutions, and Non-Banking Financial Companies: Rs. 1,424 Immovable Assets • Non-Agricultural Land: Rs. 65,00,000 • Residential Buildings: Rs. 90,00,000 | | Net Worth | Rs. 1,40,58,866 (1.40 crores) (as of 2024) | Some Lesser Known Facts About Engineer Rashid - Engineer Rashid became involved in secessionist politics as a teenager. - After completing his education, he worked as a construction engineer in the Jammu and Kashmir Projects Construction Corporation. - He came under the limelight after he campaigned in the Langate constituency of Jammu and Kashmir against the army’s alleged forced labour in early 2000. - In an interview, he stated that he was detained and tortured by a group working with the State police in 2006. He further claimed that he had to pay Rs. 1.5 lakh as ransom to secure his release. - Rashid shared a good friendship with Sajad Gani Lone, son of the founder of the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference, and both wanted to contest the Assembly elections of 2008. - But, in 2008, Sajad boycotted the election, forcing Engineer Rashid to contest the polls as an Independent candidate. - While talking to the press, he spoke about why he organised the controversial beef party in the government guest house in 2015 and said, I never eat non-vegetarian food in my constituency. But it hurts me when people like Sakshi Maharaj or Haryana Chief Minister (M.L.) Khattar dictate me what to eat and what not to eat.” - In 2015, he claimed that he felt threatened by the separatists of Kashmir and the rightwing extremists, and said, The separatists are baying for my blood and the rightwing extremists are watching how Engineer will be lynched in public.” - In 2019, he ran the Lok Sabha election campaign majorly through Facebook, receiving over 1 lakh votes. Even though he lost the election, he stated that the use of social media has given him the confidence to run for elections against his richer opponents. - Although he has not been convicted, he has been in prison since 2019 under serious charges of UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act). - In 2024, he contested the Lok Sabha election, while in jail, and defeated the former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah by more than two lakh votes. - His election campaign was led by his sons, Abrar and Asrar Rashid. References/Sources:


--- [Kashmir Elections 2024: Engineer Rashid's Surprising Win Signals ...] ---
From the humble origins of remote Langate, Handwara, Abdul Rashid Sheikh, also known as Engineer Rashid, would have seemed an unlikely candidate to emerge as a formidable political figure in north Kashmir. Yet, his journey from an engineering student to a notable political disruptor is nothing short of remarkable. Despite being held in Delhi’s Tihar jail, Rashid has achieved a surprising electoral victory in the Baramulla Lok Sabha seat, outmanoeuvring heavyweights such as former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah and Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference leader Sajad Gani Lone. This victory was not just a personal triumph but a significant political statement, given both his opponents’ substantial political networks and backing. His win has stirred considerable debate, with some analysts suggesting his success might signal a resurgence of separatist and Islamist sentiments. These fears echo Kashmir’s unfortunate history, particularly the 1987 Assembly election, where similar narratives contributed to the election results being overturned, which led to a severe distrust in democracy, thus igniting prolonged conflict and bloodshed. The 2024 election was the first significant electoral exercise in Kashmir since that controversial election. Therefore, the turnout was remarkably high, reflecting perhaps a renewed faith in democratic processes or a defiant hope for change. Also Read | Kashmir’s revolt at the ballot box For Rashid, a former college mate of mine at Government Degree College, Sopore, his ascent from an unassuming student to a political maverick encapsulates a tale of unwavering resilience and determination. His political leanings were evident, especially his admiration for Abdul Ghani Lone and his left-leaning ideas, which often led to lively discussions with his peers. When I went to New Delhi to study journalism, which also coincided with the outbreak of militancy and anarchy in Kashmir, we lost touch. I had no idea that he had obtained an engineering diploma after graduation. I barely had a picture of him in my mind. In the 1990s, the Urdu weekly Chattan, under its editor Tahir Mohiuddin, had become quite popular for its investigative and insightful reporting. The paper used to reserve space for a writer, Engineer Rashid, for an analytical column. A.G. Noorani, a well-known writer on Kashmir and India-Pakistan affairs, frequently relied on and quoted Engineer Rashid’s analyses in his articles published in Frontline. But it was only after almost a decade that I learnt that Sheikh Rashid and Engineer Rashid were the same person. After completing his engineering degree, he had joined Jammu and Kashmir Projects Construction Corporation (JKPCC) as a civil engineer. From an engineer to an accidental hero Rashid’s transformation from an engineer to an accidental hero began with an act of integrity that nearly cost him his life. While temporarily supervising a bridge construction work for JKPCC, he was confronted by armed men demanding bags of cement. He told them to visit him on the last day of the month so that he could pay them from his salary in cash instead of bags of cement. They kidnapped him, and after a few days he was found almost half-dead at the edge of a drain. The bones in his arms and legs were broken. In the meantime, work on the bridge had been stopped due to the absence of the site manager. The complaint reached the Managing Director of JKPCC in Srinagar, who then learnt that a temporary site supervisor had suffered broken bones to save cement bags for the government. His conscience immediately took him to the hospital where he met Rashid and offered him a permanent job at JKPCC. The controversial land transfer of Amarnath in 2008 was a turning point for Rashid. He decided to run for office in Langate, which many of his friends opposed. Rashid justified it as a way of gaining protection and a platform for his causes. Despite a short campaign period, Rashid’s persistence paid off when he won the election by 211 votes over Mohammad Sultan Panditpuri of the Peoples Democratic Party. According to Rashid, his only concern until then was to protect himself from police raids and summons from army camps. In 2005, he was arrested by the Special Operations Group on charges of supporting militant groups and subsequently detained for three months. Highlights - Engineer Abdul Rashid Sheikh, currently held in Tihar jail, won the Baramulla Lok Sabha seat in Kashmir’s 2024 election, defeating prominent politicians. - Rashid’s journey from a civil engineer to a grassroots political figure was marked by activism, two terms as an MLA, and a focus on anti-corruption and human rights issues. - His victory, achieved through a low-budget campaign run by his son, has sparked debates about Kashmir’s political future and the state of democracy in the region. He was subjected to extreme torture in the interrogation centres. The court dismissed all charges against him. He was later detained by gunmen said to be pro-government and released after five months on payment of a ransom. He said that his father had to sell cows, goats, and property to raise money for his life. Opposition to ‘convoy duty’ As an MLA, Rashid’s involvement went beyond traditional politics. He vehemently opposed the forced labour known as “convoy duty”, used by the army in remote areas at the time. Villagers were forced to guard and ensure the safe passage of military convoys. He explained how four to eight people from each village in Langate would assemble as early as 3 am with lanterns and sticks at a designated spot in their village. Villagers had to take turns being part of the group. About 200 people from different villages would line up and wait for the Army lorries. When the military convoy arrived, they had to move ahead of it, exposing themselves to explosive devices, if any, placed on the road or nearby. They then gathered at the camp around 9 am where work for the day was distributed among them. After becoming an MLA, he organised peaceful sit-ins outside Army camps and the Secretariat in Srinagar. His campaign led to the end of this practice, which brought considerable relief to his constituents and strengthened his reputation as a champion of human rights. Rashid’s commitment to his constituents went beyond human rights. He vigorously fought corruption and urged people to report all demands for bribes directly to him. His unique approach to governance included regular visits to remote villages, leading protests, and ensuring the completion of development projects. His hands-on style earned him a second term in the Assembly in 2014. It was due to his introduction of peaceful protests that Langate remained an island of peace in 2010 and 2016 when the whole of Kashmir was engulfed in violence. Both the security forces and the government credited peace in the region to Rashid’s engagement with the public. Few may know that when the Aam Aadmi Party was formed in New Delhi in 2012, many of its leaders drew lessons from Rashid. Many of the AAP’s leaders visited the villages of Langate several times to study and understand Rashid’s political model. In the just-concluded election, Rashid’s popularity skyrocketed when his son, Abrar Rashid, ran a short but effective campaign calling for his father’s release, capitalising on Rashid’s track record as a dedicated public servant. Also Read | ‘Engineer Rashid’s win a combination of sympathy and perseverance’: Firdous Baba Remarkably, the campaign’s modest budget of just Rs.27,000 stood in stark contrast to the exorbitant spending of the other candidates, highlighting the grassroots support for Rashid. This is reminiscent of George Fernandes contesting the 1967 Lok Sabha election, when he defeated the Congress stalwart S.K. Patil with only Rs.10,000 in his pocket. Engineer Rashid’s arrest by the National Investigation Agency on money laundering charges has been a controversial issue since no trial has taken place in the last five years. His application for bail to take oath of office is pending in court. His victory has nevertheless revitalised his career and made him an important figure in Kashmir’s political arena. His success is reminiscent of the way the writer Shaikh Shamim Ahmed won the 1971 Lok Sabha election in Srinagar against Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, a former Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. However, while Shamim’s performance in Parliament earned him much acclaim, he was never able to emerge as a leader in the public eye. Historically, Kashmiris have long yearned for a leader capable of steering the region through its turbulent political landscape. Rashid’s emergence evokes a sense of cautious optimism. His task now is to promote a transparent administration and create a balanced political environment that bridges ideological divides. His victory signifies not just a personal triumph but a potential turning point in Kashmir’s quest for true democracy. As the region looks forward to the upcoming Assembly election, it is important that democracy now goes beyond voting. For that, the state must ensure democratic rights and many degrees of freedom in the daily lives of the people. The demand for the release of prisoners like Engineer Rashid is a crucial test of the authenticity of the democratic process and the state’s commitment to it. Only time will tell if the region can achieve truly democratic governance that addresses its long-standing problems. Iftikhar Gilani is an Indian journalist based in Ankara.
