=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Timeline - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft]
The Burning Legion invades the magical tower of Karazhan, seeking to turn it into a second gateway to Azeroth as they did with the Tomb of Sargeras. Khadgar and the class orders thwart the Legion's efforts, culminating the defeat of the demon leader, Viz'aduum the Watcher, with the help of Medivh.
URL: https://wowpedia.fandom.com/wiki/Timeline

[Dark Portal - Warcraft Wiki - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft]
The Dark Portal was created through a joint effort between the human mage Medivh, possessed by the Dark Titan Sargeras, and the warlocks of the orcish Shadow Council led by Gul'dan as a means to allow the Old Horde, under the demonic influence of the Burning Legion, to invade the world of Azeroth.
URL: https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Dark_Portal

[Timeline - Warcraft Wiki - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft]
Sometime between 12,200-12,000 years before the opening of the Dark Portal, the burly race known as the yaungol roamed central Kalimdor, living in peace with ...
URL: https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Timeline

[Sargeras - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft]
Many years later, the Burning Legion launched their third invasion of Azeroth. Adventurers that approached the Tomb of Sargeras during the battle at the Broken Shore were instantly killed by the "Gaze of Sargeras", a spell followed by the message: You feel a staggering presence on the other side of the portal touch you for a moment....
URL: https://wowpedia.fandom.com/wiki/Sargeras

[Burning Legion - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft]
The Burning Legion (simply the Legion, occasionally referred to as the Legion Forces, the Burning Shadow, or the Great Burning Shadow, and the infinite army) is a vast, innumerable army of demons and corrupted races who seek to destroy all life. Sargeras created it with the purpose of destroying all...
URL: https://wowpedia.fandom.com/wiki/Burning_Legion


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Timeline - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft] ---
- For other timelines, see Timeline (disambiguation). This article compiles all the official timelines and sources published by Blizzard into a non-exhaustive timeline of recorded important events in the Warcraft universe. This should not be considered as an official timeline but should be as accurate as, and more complete than, any timeline that Blizzard has provided. Numbering in this timeline is based on the opening of the Dark Portal, as this is the method used by the official sources. All dates are considered to be spans of time from one to the next since many events are only given vague ordering and estimated dates. Warcraft products are displayed in italics. Mythos[] - Origins of the universe - the universe is created from the clash of the Light and the Void - The rise of demons - demons arise in the Twisting Nether - The Jailer is banished to the Maw by the other Eternal Ones, and the Arbiter is created.[1] - Sire Denathrius pretends to exile the nathrezim from Revendreth.[2] - Sargeras and the Betrayal - Sargeras betrays the Pantheon and creates the Burning Legion Primordial history[] - Unknown date - The coming of the Old Gods - the Old Gods arrive on Azeroth - Wrath of the titan-forged - the titans find Azeroth and create the titan-forged to combat the Old Gods - The Ordering of Azeroth - life is seeded on Azeroth by the keepers - Charge of the Dragonflights - the keepers create the Dragon Aspects - -150,000[3] - Earliest known date. The creation of the contents of Mosh'Ogg Bounty, determined through the use of a carbon-dating potion,[4] and believed to be of Old God origin.[5] - -25,000 (approx.) - -20,000 - The Primal Incarnates lead the Primalists rebellion against the Dragon Aspects. The war ends with the Primal Incarnates being sealed away on the Dragon Isles. - The dracthyr are placed into stasis in the Forbidden Reach.[7] - -16,000 - The trolls establish their civilization on primordial Kalimdor, later forming the Empire of Zul to combat the aqir in the Aqir and Troll War.[8] - The loa Sethraliss defeats the C'Thrax Mythrax at the cost of her own life. Her sethrak followers Sulthis, Vorrik, and Korthek seal Mythrax away beneath Atul'Aman.[9] - The war ends with the defeat of the empire of Azj'Aqir, with the surviving aqir fleeing to form the colonies of Ahn'Qiraj, Azjol-Nerub and Manti'vess.[8] - The Amani establish the city of Zul'Aman atop the site where they have slain the C'Thrax Kith'ix.[8] - -15,000 - The Curse of Flesh affects the Dragonflayer vrykul, causing their offspring (whose descendants would later become known as humans) to be born stunted and weak.[10] - The Curse of Flesh affects the mogu, who break apart into warrior clans and begin fighting amongst themselves in the Age of a Hundred Kings. Meanwhile, several new races — the hozen, jinyu and pandaren — settle in the Vale of Eternal Blossoms. The mogu Lei Shen seizes power from Ra and founds the mogu empire, enslaving the other races in the region.[11] - A tribe of dark trolls gradually migrate towards the heart of ancient Kalimdor and settle along the shores of the Well of Eternity. Over generations, the arcane energies emanating from the Well transform them into a new race of highly intelligent beings, who call themselves "kaldorei" ("Children of the Stars") or night elves.[12] - The kaldorei begin to actively study and practice arcane magic. They bend magic to their will and use it to build beautiful cities, craft artifacts and reshape the land. Some kaldorei resist the lure to use the Well of Eternity's power and warn others of the dangers of abusing it. Their warnings go unheeded. - A group of upper-class kaldorei begin to refer to themselves as the Highborne and revel in the use of magic. - -13,000 - Rise of the Horde (Past) begins» - Sargeras corrupts most of the eredar on Argus, convincing them to join his Burning Legion.[13] - -12,200 - Lei Shen attempts to invade Uldum and seize the Forge of Origination for his empire, but is killed when Uldum's tol'vir guardians activate the Forge's destructive power. In the process, Uldum's lush jungles are scorched into a harsh desert. Lei Shen is followed by a succession of various mogu emperors.[14] - -12,000 - The Highborne city of Eldre'Thalas is founded in Feralas by the Shen'dralar.[15][16] - Kang incites a slave revolution against the mogu, successfully overthrowing them and leading to the founding of the Pandaren Empire.[17] - -11,900 - The Zandalari Troll Wars.[18] - The Zandalari trolls, allies of the now-overthrown mogu, attempt to conquer a plot of land in Pandaria promised to them by Lei Shen. The invasion is repelled thanks to Jiang and the newly-founded Order of the Cloud Serpent. - -10,000 - The War of the Ancients.[19] - War of the Ancients Trilogy (past) - Sargeras senses the Highborne's use of the Well of Eternity and decides to invade Azeroth. Corrupting Queen Azshara and her followers, a portal is opened through which the Burning Legion enters the world and lays waste to the night-elven civilization. - Emperor Shaohao, the last emperor of the Pandaren Empire, is told of the impending invasion by a jinyu waterspeaker. After purging himself of his emotional burdens, he becomes one with the land and isolates Pandaria behind a veil of thick mists, which protects it from the war and ensuing disasters but also keeps it hidden from the rest of the world for millennia. - The Sundering of the World - Several night elves led by Malfurion Stormrage are able to destroy the Well of Eternity, preventing Sargeras from entering the world, and stopping the Legion's invasion. However, this also creates a massive cataclysm known as the Sundering, where eighty percent of Kalimdor's landmass is plunged between the waves, leaving only a handful of isolated continents. - The Dragon Isles are sealed away from the world. A New World[] - -10,000 - [Mount Hyjal and Illidan's Gift] - The Lunar Festival is created.[20] - -9,400 - The burgeoning night elf society expands into the dense forests of Ashenvale. Tyrande Whisperwind positions the Sisterhood of Elune as the leaders of the night elf government and military. The Sentinels are created to protect their emergent society. Malfurion Stormrage begins to train other druids.[21] - -9,300 - The War of the Satyr.[22] - -7,300 - [Exile of the High Elves] begins»[23] - The night elves raised a veil of mist around Kalimdor to shroud it from outsiders.[24][25] - The Sentinels and the Long Vigil - The Founding of Quel'Thalas begins»[26] - -6,800 - -6,000 - The elves of Shandaral in Northrend unleash a disastrous spell during their fight against the blue dragonflight, cursing Moonsong Forest and turning it into Crystalsong Forest.[27] - -4,500 - Without permission from the Cenarion Circle, Fandral Staghelm plants branches from Nordrassil in Duskwood, Hinterlands, Feralas, Crystalsong Forest, Ashenvale, and the last one in Grizzly Hills in order to stop saronite from spreading.[28] - War between taunka and forest nymphs.[28] - The Grizzly Hills sapling quickly grows into Andrassil but is corrupted by Yogg-Saron. The druids are forced to fell the mighty tree, which is then renamed Vordrassil.[28] - -4,000 (approx.) - Tyrande Whisperwind saves the frostsaber queen, Shy-Rotam, from the frostmaul giants. The frostsabers become allies of the night elves.[29] - -3,000 - The Curse of Flesh affects the mechagnomes of Uldaman, turning them into gnomes. They leave Uldaman for Dun Morogh, and forget their heritage.[30] - On Draenor, the arakkoa travel from Gorgrond to Arak. They create the Apexis civilization in their goddess Rukhmar's memory and begin to explore the world.[31] - The Barrow Deeps of Mount Hyjal are sealed shut.[32] - -2,800 - [Arathor and the Troll Wars][33] - Humans in the northern lands of the Eastern Kingdoms unite and form the kingdom of Arathor. They lend their help to the high elves of Quel'Thalas, and together they defeat the Amani trolls. In return for their help, the elves start teaching arcane magic to humans.[34] - -2,700 - The kingdom of Arathor expands, founding settlements in Alterac, Tirisfal Glades, Gilneas, Kul Tiras, and Dalaran.[35] - -2,680 - The Guardians of Tirisfal[36] - The reckless use of magic by humans draws the attention of demons from the Burning Legion, and they start manifesting in Azeroth. Mages from Dalaran form the Council of Tirisfal to secretly fight and contain the demons, without alerting the general population.[37] - -2,610 - The Council of Tirisfal finds a way to empower a champion permanently with their powers, in order to fight threats that the Council can't handle by themselves. Thus the office of the Guardian of Tirisfal is created, with Alodi becoming the first Guardian. Each new Guardian takes the mantle for a hundred years, before passing their powers to an apprentice.[38] - -2,500 - Ironforge - the Awakening of the Dwarves[39] - The dwarves awaken in Uldaman, migrating west and founding Khaz Modan. They establish the city of Ironforge and assist the nearby gnomes in founding Gnomeregan.[40][41] - A great hozen warlord is active in the area around what is now the Circle of Bone in the Jade Forest.[42] - -2,000 - On Draenor, Gnarlgar rallies the Primals against the Apexis and creates a new Sporemound known as Taala. The Apexis annihilate the Primal army with the Breath of Rukhmar, permanently destroying the Evergrowth and preventing it from ever returning again, leading to a golden age of mortal civilization on Draenor.[43] - -1,500 - The Gurubashi Civil War is fought between the Atal'ai Hakkari, followers of the loa Hakkar, and the rest of the Gurubashi. With help from the Zandalari, the Atal'ai fanatics are defeated and banished from Stranglethorn Vale.[44] - -1,200 - The Seven Kingdoms[45] - The human kingdoms of Lordaeron, Alterac, Gilneas, Dalaran, and Stromgarde are formed on continental Lordaeron, north of Khaz Modan. The kingdom of Stormwind (also known as Azeroth) is formed on continental Azeroth. The kingdom of Kul Tiras is formed off of the coast of Khaz Modan. - After living hidden in Eldre'Thalas since the Sundering, Tortheldrin and his followers killed most of their Shen'dralar elven kin in order to hoard the demon Immol'thar's power for themselves. Most of the city is abandoned, and other creatures start moving in. While many Shen'dralar escaped into remote regions of Kalimdor or went into hiding, those still within the dying city continued to feed and grew ever dependent on their fel addiction.[46] - The Apexis civilization is destroyed in a civil war. The Breath of Rukhmar explodes, shattering Arak's single spire into numerous smaller ones.[47] - -1,100 - The tauren inadvertently awaken the slumbering Princess Theradras, who drains the fertile lands of Mashan'she of energy, turning the region into a barren plain later called Desolace. Zaetar arrives to investigate but falls in love with Theradras, and from their union the centaur are born. After killing their father, the centaur proliferate across Desolace and begin hunting down the tauren, igniting a long and bloody war between the two races. Maraudon, the site of Zaetar's tomb, becomes treated as holy ground by the centaur.[48] - -1,000 - The ogres are taught arcane magic by the arakkoa and rebel against their ogron masters under the leadership of Gog Gronnslayer. The city of Goria is established, beginning the reign of the Gorian Empire.[49] - Malfurion Stormrage meets with Tyrande Whisperwind for the last time until the Third War.[50] - -975 - -823 - Cycle of Hatred (Past) begins» - Aegwynn and the Dragon Hunt[53] - Aegwynn, Guardian of Tirisfal, battles and defeats an avatar of Sargeras in the Dragonblight. She buries the remains of the avatar in the Tomb of Sargeras in the sunken ruins of Suramar. Sargeras' spirit, however, hides itself inside Aegwynn.[54] - -800 - Liu Lang defies Pandaria's belief that the rest of the world had been destroyed in the Sundering, and travels through the mists on the turtle Shen-zin Su. He returns every five years to bring more people along with him. Shen-zin Su grows large enough to become the Wandering Isle, with pandaren creating permanent settlements on his back.[55] - The orcs emerge from the subterranean caverns of Gorgrond and begin to spread across Draenor, forming various clans.[56] - Orcs from the Shadowmoon clan are taught the ways of shamanism by the elements and construct a temple at a site they name the Throne of the Elements. The biannual Kosh'harg festival is established.[56] - -700 (approx.) - The Waygate between Sholazar Basin and Un'Goro Crater is activated for the last time until the war against the Lich King.[57] - -600 - Aegwynn decides to stay as the Guardian of Tirisfal indefinitely, partly due to her concerns about the Council of Tirisfal meddling with the politics of different nations, and partly due to Sargeras' influence. She builds Karazhan as her secret abode, but after the Tirisgarde find her, she moves to the Guardian Sanctum in sunken Suramar.[58] - Pridelord Karash of the Bloodmane saberon declares war upon the high arakkoa but is defeated by the Talon King Terokk. Terokk establishes the city of Skyreach but is later betrayed by the Anhari priesthood, who wish to retain sole control over arakkoan society. Terokk and his daughter Lithic are thrown into the Sethekk Hollow to become Outcasts. Lithic dies in the fall, but Terokk and his followers are guided by Anzu to create the talonpriests and establish the city of Skettis. Terokk eventually becomes insane and is sealed in a realm of shadow by his followers.[59] - -500 (approx.) - The high elven Farstriders are officially formed.[60] - Queen Azshara imprisons the kraken Leviroth in the waters of the Riplash Ruins[61] and blesses the trident of Riplash's emperor Raj Naz'jan so it can slay the monster if it ever escapes.[62] - -403 - Imperator Molok of the Gorian Empire sends an ogre army to claim the Throne of the Elements and the power of the elements by force. The dissonance between the ogres' reckless arcane magic and the lingering power of Grond's remains creates an explosion that blows apart the orcish temple, leaving behind only a few standing stones and throwing the elements into disarray across Draenor.[63] - -402 - At the Kosh'harg festival, the orcish clans band together to combat the ogres at the urging of Nelgarm.[64] - -400 - The orcs lay siege to the ogre capital Goria. Molok and his sorcerers create the red pox, which begins to spread among the orcs, but Nelgarm and his fellow shaman convince the elements to completely destroy Goria.[65] - The last gnome king,[66] King Mechagon, leads his followers in search of a mystical land of technology.[67] - -300 (approx.) - Last reported case of a genesaur birth on Draenor prior to the creation of the Blooming Genesaur.[68] - A Shadowmoon clan chieftain bans the worship of the Void.[69] - -231 (approx.) - A group of tauren founded the order of the Earthen Ring to lead their people with wisdom and maintain the harmony between the elemental spirits.[70] - -230 - The War of the Three Hammers.[71] - After the death of High King Modimus Anvilmar, the Bronzebeards, the Wildhammers and the Dark Irons start a war over control of Ironforge. The Bronzebeards eventually win; the Wildhammers relocate to Grim Batol, while the Dark Irons become enslaved by Ragnaros under the newly-created Blackrock Mountain.[72] - -200 - -195 - The draenei establish Shattrath City in the location where Goria once stood.[76] - Auchindoun and the Auchenai are established after it is discovered that the remains of the naaru D'ore are attracting the souls of deceased draenei.[76] - -180 - The Temple of Karabor is founded. The Shadowmoon orcs begin to worship the darkened naaru K'ara as a deity, calling it the "Dark Star", but quickly outlaw the practice after discovering that wielding the Dark Star's power causes insanity.[77] - The naaru K'ure begins attracting the souls of deceased orcs to the wreckage of the Genedar. Orcish shaman begin making pilgrimages to the site to commune with their ancestors, naming the crystal mountain "Oshu'gun". - A group of orcish exiles dwelling below Nagrand begin tapping into the Void energies bleeding from K'ure. This allows them to use shadow magic but also turns their skin a sickly white, causing the exiles to begin calling themselves "the Pale".[78] - -100 - The goblins of Kezan, granted heightened intelligence by the kaja'mite ore, break free of their slavery under the Zandalari and establish various cartels.[79] - Imperator Hok'lon leads the Gorian Empire in an attempt to retake the ruins of Goria from the draenei. The attack is easily repelled by the draenei and Hok'lon is killed. The ogres flee after Velen appears on Shattrath's ramparts, wreathed in light, and tells them that they will be allowed to leave unharmed.[80] - -99 - The orc clans debate over how to respond to the draenei. The Bladewind clan begin raiding draenei caravans, but the attacks gradually cease when the draenei send Vindicators to guard the caravans.[81] - -91 - Korialstrasz kills the Manta with an arrow covered in three drops of a black liquid from a vial.[82] - -75 - A small group of high elves leave Quel'Thalas and travel to Winterspring in search of the mysteries of Kel'Theril, but end up discovering shards of the shattered Crystal of Zin-Malor. The expedition leader, Archmage Maenius, is corrupted by the shards and drives the elves to madness.[83] - King Barathen Wrynn of Stormwind defeats Garfang and his gnoll armies in the Gnoll War.[84] Doom of Draenor[] - For events taking place in the alternate Draenor timeline in Warlords of Draenor during this period, see the Warlords of Draenor section. - -45 - Aegwynn and Nielas Aran conceive Medivh. Aegwynn hides the power of the Guardian of Tirisfal inside him, to be activated when he reaches maturity. Sargeras' spirit, which was hiding inside Aegwynn, possesses the infant.[85] - Kil'jaeden and the Shadow Pact[86] - Rise of the Horde begins» - Medivh is born.[87] - -31 - On the eve of his fourteenth birthday, Medivh's dormant powers awake and lash out, killing his father Nielas. Medivh lies dormant for many years after this, tended to by clerics at Northshire Abbey.[85] - -26 - Grommash Hellscream is born.[88] - -21 - Medivh awakens from his coma. The Gurubashi trolls begin launching raids on human settlements in retaliation for the humans pushing farther and farther south into Gurubashi territory. King Barathen dispatches soldiers to intercept raiding parties but forbids them from striking into Gurubashi lands.[89] - -19 - After a gruesome attack on three Westfall towns by the Gurubashi, Medivh and his two friends Anduin Lothar and Prince Llane Wrynn sneak into Stranglethorn to assassinate the Gurubashi leader, Jok'non. They succeed, but only after Medivh unleashes his full might as a Guardian.[89] - -18 - The Gurubashi War.[89] - The Gurubashi rally under Jok'non's son, Zan'non, and march to war against Stormwind, launching an attack on Stormwind City itself. Barathen dies during the battle and Llane is forced to convince Medivh to unleash his full Guardian powers to repel the attack. Llane, Medivh and Anduin are hailed as heroes by the kingdom.[89] - Medivh is confronted by his mother Aegwynn at Karazhan. She urges him to isolate himself from the world and leaves him with a caretaker, Moroes. The Council of Tirisfal discover Medivh and begin sending apprentices to study under him, but none last for longer than a day. Moroes notices Medivh's ever-darkening mood and convinces him to begin launching banquets and feasts to lift his spirits.[89] - -13 - Two young orcs, Orgrim Doomhammer and Durotan, are saved from an ogre by a group of draenei. The draenei invite them to the nearby settlement of Telmor, where Velen requests an audience with them before the two orcs are escorted back to the borders of Gorgrond.[90] - -12 - Talgath discovers the draenei civilization on Draenor. Kil'jaeden commands him to observe the inhabitants of the world for the time being.[91] - -11 - Talgath observes the customs of the various major orc clans.[91] - Lords of War (past) - The Battle of Bladespire.[91] - -10 - The orc Gul'dan is exiled from his clan and seeks out the Throne of the Elements, where the elements reject him. Kil'jaeden reaches out to him and grants him the power of fel magic in exchange for agreeing to help the Burning Legion manipulate the orcs against the draenei. Gul'dan accepts, becoming the first orcish warlock.[92] - Gul'dan inundates the Throne of the Elements with fel magic, throwing the elements into disarray across the world, and also uses his magic to create the worst outbreak of the red pox in orcish history. Many orcs contract the plague at the Kosh'harg festival. Under the leadership of the Frostwolf chieftain Garad, the plague bearers establish a village in Nagrand to quarantine the afflicted. The village is named Garadar in Garad's honor after he succumbs to the pox.[92] - Medivh continues to study demonic lore and Azerothian history and becomes convinced that the world is inherently flawed, too divided by petty rivalries to ever unite into a single force in case of a demonic invasion. He concludes that he needs an army to change things and begins venturing out into the cosmos, eventually discovering Draenor and the orcs.[89] - -8 - Gul'dan returns to his home village and burns it and everyone within it to ash to prevent anyone from learning about his past. He then ventures to the Shadowmoon clan and convinces them to let him join them, claiming that his home village was destroyed by ogres. Gul'dan wins the friendship of the Shadowmoon chieftain, the shaman Ner'zhul, allowing Kil'jaeden to begin manipulating Ner'zhul's thoughts.[93] - Gul'dan manipulates the Bladewind clan into launching raids on draenei caravans, killing and kidnapping dozens of draenei. Vindicator Maraad and the draenei retaliate and storm the Bladewind village, but when Maraad sees the corpse of his sister Leran he goes into a rampage across the village. Gul'dan kills the few surviving Bladewinds as they attempt to flee. He then returns to the Shadowmoon and tells of how the draenei launched an unprovoked massacre against the Bladewinds. Meanwhile, Kil'jaeden appears to Ner'zhul in his dreams, disguised as the spirit of his deceased mate Rulkan, and tells him that the draenei are planning to destroy the orcs. Ner'zhul calls for a clan meeting at Oshu'gun, where the orc chieftains agree to band together to defeat the draenei, marking the creation of the Horde.[93] - -7 - The orcs begin launching sporadic attacks against draenei hunting parties. The draenei, assuming that the orcs have simply been agitated by the elemental turmoil, begin organizing and constructing new defenses.[93] - Ner'zhul's apprehension about the war with the draenei grows. Kil'jaeden appears to him in the form of Rulkan and tells him of powerful beings who could aid the orcs, and the night after Kil'jaeden appears again as a radiant elemental entity and urges him to push the Horde to victory and exterminate the draenei. Ner'zhul secretly embarks on a journey to Oshu'gun to seek the guidance of the ancestors, but Kil'jaeden is aware of his plans and tells Gul'dan to gather allies to control the Shadowmoon, since Ner'zhul can no longer be relied upon. Gul'dan recruits Teron'gor and several other shaman and begin teaching them fel magic.[93] - At Oshu'gun, the real Rulkan and the other ancestors tell Ner'zhul that he was being manipulated by Kil'jaeden and condemn the shaman for having been used by the demon lord. Ner'zhul falls into despair and is captured by Gul'dan's followers, who treat him as little more than a slave.[93] - -6 - Displeased by the disarray and infighting in the Horde, Kil'jaeden commands Gul'dan to find a single, true leader for the orcs — a warchief. Gul'dan convinces Blackhand to take up the position after training some of the Blackrock clan's shaman how to wield fel magic and magically age young orcs, including Blackhand's young sons, Dal'rend and Maim. - Gul'dan forms the Shadow Council to watch over the orcs and includes Blackhand in the organization, but Gul'dan's trusted Shadowmoon warlocks secretly form the inner circle of the organization. The warlock recruits new members for the council, including Cho'gall and Garona, and creates a group called the necrolytes.[94] - Zagrel, Chieftain of the Whiteclaw clan, is assassinated by Garona on behalf of Gul'dan for speaking out against the Horde.[94] - -5 - At a clan meeting at Oshu'gun, Gul'dan persuades many shaman into becoming warlocks and convinces the clan chieftains to unanimously vote for Blackhand as their warchief.[94] - Blackhand orders the construction of the Citadel, later known as Hellfire Citadel, and organizes the various clans into specific roles within the Horde. He also forms a new clan known as the Black Tooth Grin and names Eitrigg, Orgrim Doomhammer and Varok Saurfang as his lieutenants in the Blackrock clan.[94] - Blackhand sends warlocks to magically age the adolescents of other clans. The orcs' skin begins to turn a sickly green.[94] - Cho'gall recruits the pale orcs into the Horde and forms the Twilight's Hammer clan.[94] - -4 - The draenei's morale begins to founder as the orcs launch coordinated assaults on minor settlements and outposts across the dying world. Velen and the exarchs, knowing that their only chance of survival is to hold off the onslaught and hope that the Burning Legion does not launch a full-scale invasion, order their forces to withdraw to Shattrath and Karabor. The elemental spirits pool their power into the mighty Firelord, Cyrukh, to stop the desecration of the land.[94] - The orcs gather for an assault on Karabor. Cyrukh appears in a nearby volcano to confront them, but Gul'dan and his warlocks gather on the volcano's slopes to shatter the being's physical form and infuse its power into the orcs, shattering the last connection between the orcs and the elements. The volcano becomes known as the Hand of Gul'dan.[94] - The draenei hold the orcish assault at bay for a time but are defeated when the Horde uses the power of the Dark Star to kill or drive insane many of the defenders and permanently darken Karabor, turning it into the Black Temple. Velen and the survivors manage to flee via the harbor.[94] - -3 - The orcs gather at a mountain near the Citadel and drink the blood of Mannoroth at Gul'dan's urging. Durotan forbids the Frostwolves from drinking after having received an anonymous message from Ner'zhul, while Orgrim refuses out of suspicion for the growing corruption of the orcs and Draenor. Those who do drink the blood are driven into a ferocious bloodlust and march against Shattrath as Gul'dan infuses the mountain with fel energy, transforming it into the Throne of Kil'jaeden.[94] - The victims of the red pox quarantined in Garadar remain isolated from the fel corruption, leading them to become known as the Mag'har, "Uncorrupted".[94] - Velen leads many Shattrath civilians to a refuge in Telredor. The orcs launch an assault on Shattrath, unleashing the red mist against the draenei. Before long, the city falls to the Horde.[94] - Many of the survivors retreat to Auchindoun. Teron'gor and other Shadow Council agents are dispatched to the mausoleum, but when they are repelled by the draenei and Auchindoun's spirits they attempt to summon a powerful demon to aid them. Instead, they accidentally summon Murmur, whose arrival blasts Auchindoun apart and levels the surrounding forests. The warlocks bind Murmur within Auchindoun to prevent it from wreaking havoc on the Horde.[94] - -2 - More draenei survivors arrive at Telredor. The ones afflicted by the red mist mutate into Broken, and the populace of Telredor exile them into the wilds out of fear that the condition might spread. Some Broken continue to degrade into Lost Ones.[94] - Blackhand turns his attention on Draenor's other inhabitants. Kilrogg Deadeye and the Bleeding Hollow clan launch a campaign against Farahlon, while Grommash Hellscream and Cho'gall topple Highmaul. Elsewhere, the Frostwolf, Whiteclaw and Thunderlord clans are charged with hunting down the ogres, ogron, gronn and magnaron, though only the Thunderlords obey.[94] - Kargath Bladefist leads a force to conquer the arakkoa capital, Skyreach. The orcs ally with the Outcast arakkoa, who agree to infiltrate Skyreach and sabotage the high arakkoa's superweapon. Kargath and his forces then slaughter high and cursed arakkoa alike, casting some of the former into Sethekk Hollow. These cursed high arakkoa rally under Grizzik, who leads his people to take refuge in Auchindoun.[94] - Kil'jaeden ceases to communicate with Gul'dan on Sargeras' orders. The orcs begin to flounder on Draenor as the world slowly dies. The threat of starvation causes the orcs to hunt many of Draenor's native creatures to extinction and begin fighting amongst themselves.[94] - -1 - Medivh appears to Gul'dan and the Shadow Council and tells them of Azeroth, as well as showing a vision of the Tomb of Sargeras to Gul'dan. The construction of the Dark Portal begins.[89] - Rise of the Horde - Rise of the Horde ends« Great Wars[] First War[] - The Horde enter the Dark Portal and small skirmishes break out with the humans. Rumors spread of monsters in the swamp; most are dismissed as tales. - The Frostwolves are banished from the Horde and begin sneaking north to find a new home. - Blackhand orders the Horde push north and west, far into Stormwind's territories. Many villages and towns are destroyed. - The Bleeding Hollow clan pushes into Stranglethorn Vale but are met with strong resistance from the Gurubashi tribe, and eventually retreat. - The Dark Portal and the Fall of Stormwind begins» - The Dark Portal and the Fall of Stormwind ends« - Warcraft: Orcs & Humans begins»[97] - The Last Guardian (Past) ends« - The Last Guardian - 1[98] (Year 593 by the King's Calendar) - To combat the Horde, the Northshire Clerics begin entering the battlefield, the humans' first view of a priest on the frontlines. - The Old Gods begin contacting Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer clan. Cho'gall agrees to follow the Horde, but only for his own motives. - The Frostwolves arrive in Alterac Valley, having almost entirely avoided Azeroth's other races thanks to the elements. - Thrall is born. - Shocked at their child's green skin, Durotan sends messages through the elements to meet with Orgrim near Loch Modan. The two meet to discuss this revelation and go their separate ways. Orgrim sends his most trusted friends with Durotan and his wife, Draka, for protection, but they turn out to be loyal to Gul'dan. They murder Durotan and Draka and leave Thrall for dead, but the infant is soon found by Aedelas Blackmoore. - 3[99] (Year 596 by the King's Calendar) - Redridge falls to the Horde. - The Shadow Council moves their operations to Blackrock Mountain. - The Horde begins their first siege of Stormwind. It's met as a stalemate and the Horde retreat. - Garona is allowed entrance to Stormwind by the word of Khadgar, who warns King Llane about Medivh's fall to the Legion. - Khadgar and Garona go to confront Medivh and a battle ensues. Sargeras' spirit, still inside Medivh, magically ages Khadgar well past his prime. Gul'dan sees the battle through Garona's eyes and frantically connects with Medivh, mulling through the Guardian's memories for more details on the Tomb of Sargeras' location. Khadgar slays Medivh and Gul'dan is put into a coma. The death of Medivh, whose body was still infused with fel, caused a catastrophic explosion, scorching the land around Karazhan into Deadwind Pass and turning Brightwood into Duskwood. - Seeing the Shadow Council's weakness after Gul'dan's coma, Orgrim challenges Blackhand to a mak'gora. The duel ends in Orgrim crushing Blackhand's skull with his family heirloom, the Doomhammer. - Garona and Khadgar return to Stormwind to inform Llane of the Guardian's death. In the battle, however, Gul'dan had implanted thoughts of killing allies into Garona's mind. These messages flared bright in her head once more, and she assassinates Llane. - Stormwind comes under siege from the Horde and the front gates fall. The city falls to fire, and Lothar is forced to gather what refugees he can and flee north. - Warcraft: Orcs & Humans ends« - Cycle of Hatred (Past) ends« - Tides of Darkness begins - Arthas: Rise of the Lich King begins» Second War[] - 4[100] (Year 597 by the King's Calendar) - The Demon Soul is found by orcish warlocks. Alexstrasza senses this and comes to investigate. - Stormwind's refugees with Lothar arrive in Lordaeron. - The human nations gather in response to Lothar's urging and they form the Council of Seven Nations. - The Horde gathers resources and plan their next conquest in pursuit of the refugees. - Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness - World of Warcraft: Ashbringer (Past) - 5[101] (Year 598 by the King's Calendar) - Gul'dan creates the first death knights. - The Horde pushes north, conquering Khaz Modan and trapping the dwarves and gnomes within Ironforge and Gnomeregan. - The Council of Seven Nations unanimously votes to form The Alliance of Lordaeron. - The Order of the Silver Hand is founded and begin training the first paladins. - Orgrim builds the orcish fleet in present-day Menethil Harbor, planning to sail around the Thandol Span and into Hillsbrad. - The Dragonmaw clan bind Alexstrasza in Grim Batol with the Demon Soul, forcing the red dragonflight to the Horde's will. - Lothar calls upon an ancient pact, earning the assistance of the Quel'dorei in the war effort. - The Horde sail north but are outmatched by the Kul Tiras fleet. Red dragons chase off the Alliance and the Horde make landfall. - 6[102] (Year 599 by the King's Calendar) - The Battle of Hillsbrad Foothills ensues, leaving much of the landscape in ruin. - The Horde frees Zul'jin from human captivity, who in turn pledges his tribe, the Amani, to the Horde's cause. - Garona escapes capture from her handler, Eitrigg. - Horde forces move through the Hinterlands, suffering attacks from the Wildhammer clan of dwarves. - The Horde moves to Quel'Thalas and Gul'dan assists in dismantling the elven runestones, which he later utilizes to create two-headed ogres. - With the assistance of the Horde, the Amani finally begin retaking parts of Eversong. The high elves are pushed back to the walls of Silvermoon, but fail to breach them. Orgrim realizes his resources should be pooled elsewhere and moves his forces southwest towards Alterac, leaving the Amani. Zul'jin would never forgive the Horde for this. - Realizing the might of the Horde, Aiden Perenolde strikes a deal with the orcs. They will be allowed passage through Alterac if they spare his city. Orgrim readily accepts and moves on to Capital City. - The Horde begins their siege of Capital City but is met with a strong opposition. Gul'dan, having finally learned the location of the Tomb, abandons the Horde with the Twilight's Hammer and Stormreaver clans, causing the Horde's loss in the Second War. - Gul'dan raises the Broken Shore and makes his way through the Tomb. Defying Kil'jaeden's plan of turning the Tomb into a portal for the Legion, however, the warlock attempts to take all its power for himself. He and his followers are torn apart by monstrous demons while the rest of his clan is defeated by the Dragonmaw. - Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer clan flee west to Kalimdor. - The Horde flees south but is quickly followed by the Alliance, the Kul Tiras fleet and the Wildhammer clan. - Khaz Modan is liberated and the dwarves and gnomes readily join the Alliance. - Siege of Blackrock Spire - the Alliance lays siege to Blackrock Mountain. - Orgrim slays Lothar in combat but is swiftly defeated by Turalyon and captured. - Khadgar destroys the Dark Portal. - The Second War ends with victory for the Aliance of Lordaeron. Aftermath of the Second War[] - 7[103] (Year 600 by the King's Calendar) - Dal'rend and Maim Blackhand bolster Horde remnants at Blackrock, forming their "True Horde". - Most orcs fled into the wilderness, travelling in small packs or alone. - The Alliance begins the Orcish Internment. - Aedelas Blackmoore is named lord of Durnholde and secretly raises Thrall as his slave. - Nethergarde Keep is established to keep watch over the rift that still exists in the Blasted Lands. - Ner'zhul reforms what little Horde is left on Draenor. - In search of new worlds to conquer, Ner'zhul tasks Teron Gorefiend and the remaining death knights with acquiring artifacts of power; the [Scepter of Sargeras], the Eye of Dalaran and the Book of Medivh. - Ner'zhul re-opens the Dark Portal with the Skull of Gul'dan. - Deathwing pledges his flight to the Horde if they'll take a large number of his eggs with them back to Draenor. Ner'zhul agrees. - Teron Gorefiend and the death knights retrieve all three artifacts and return them to Ner'zhul. - The Warsong are tasked with preventing the Alliance from entering the portal, but are beaten back by Turalyon's forces, the Sons of Lothar. - The Sons of Lothar invade Draenor, beating back the Horde to Hellfire Citadel. Ner'zhul flees south with the three artifacts to Karabor, now called the Black Temple. - While searching for nesting areas, Deathwing and his flight come under assault from the gronn. The most ruthless, Gruul, becomes known as the Dragonkiller after nearly killing Deathwing himself. - Ner'zhul uses the power from all three artifacts to call open innumerable dimensional portals. The influx of power tears apart Draenor into what it is today: Outland. - Many orcs fled Draenor to Azeroth and most were captured. Khadgar, still on Draenor, closes the Dark Portal from his side, trapping the Sons of Lothar on a dying world. - Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal[97] - Beyond the Dark Portal - The Last Guardian (Future) - The Invasion of Draenor - A Thousand Years of War begins - The Birth of the Lich King - Icecrown and the Frozen Throne - Gallywix: Trade Secrets of a Trade Prince - 10 (Year 602 by the King's Calendar) - The Battle of Grim Batol - Day of the Dragon[97] - Lethargy of the Orcs - Unbroken[106] - Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer arrive in Kalimdor and establish a base in a cave system beneath Tanaris, seeking to join C'Thun in Ahn'Qiraj. Garona begins assassinating members of the cult, eventually forcing Cho'gall and his followers to flee the area.[107] - War of the Spider[108] - 16-17[109] (Year 608 - 609 by the King's Calendar) - Kel'Thuzad and the Forming of the Scourge - Lord of the Clans[97] (liberating started) - The New Horde - Of Blood and Honor - Lord of the Clans (ending) - The Alliance Splinters - The Kingdoms of Quel'Thalas, Stromgarde and Gilneas leave the Alliance of Lordaeron. - King Genn Greymane orders the construction of the Greymane Wall.[110] - Kel'Thuzad and the Cult of the Damned begin infecting Andorhal's granaries with the plague.[111] - 18[112] (Year 610 by the King's Calendar) - Aegwynn uses her power to summon Medivh's spirit on Azeroth. Free of the taint of Sargeras, the Last Guardian decides that he will be the catalyst to unity and decides to warn the other races of the upcoming return of the Burning Legion. - Gelbin Mekkatorque is elected High Tinker of Gnomeregan.[113] Third War[] - 20 (Year 612 by the King's Calendar) - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos[97] - The Judgment - Scourging of Lordaeron - World of Warcraft: Ashbringer - Gnomeregan is invaded by the troggs, Gelbin Mekkatorque decides that the gnomes have to fight alone to let their allies focus on the Scourge in Lordaeron.[114] - The gates of the Greymane Wall are closed to stop the undead. Arugal releases the worgen on Genn Greymane's orders to repel the Scourge.[115] - The Worgen Curse begins to spread in Gilneas.[116] - Scourge invasion of Quel'Thalas - Siege of Dalaran - 21[117] (Year 613 by the King's Calendar) - The Battle of Mount Hyjal - The Northgate Rebellion begins in Gilneas Rise of the Lich King[] - 22[118] (Year 614 by the King's Calendar) - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne - First Brewfest, organized as a beer-tasting contest between Chen Stormstout, Grimbooze Thunderbrew and Coren Direbrew.[119] - The Betrayer Ascendant begins» - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne ends« - In Feralas, Cho'gall lures Garona into the open and magically enslaves her, turning her into his servant. The remaining Twilight's Hammer continue into Silithus to join C'Thun.[120] - Old Hatreds - The Colonization of Kalimdor - Summertide Assaults - Siege of the Sanguine - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne (Bonus) - The World Tree Teldrassil is planted off the shore of Darkshore. - The Forsaken join the Horde.[121] - Marvon Rivetseeker excavates the Broken Pillar in Tanaris.[122] - 24 (Year 616 by the King's Calendar) - Cycle of Hatred[97] - The Great Lakeshire Drought and the Great Ironforge Flood, caused by a portal being opened within the lake to Ironforge without a liquid filter.[124] World of Warcraft[] - 25[97] (Year 617 by the King's Calendar) - Gnomeregan is lost after Sicco Thermaplugg convinces Gelbin Mekkatorque to release lethal radiation in the city, irradiating not only the invading troggs but most of the gnomes as well. Mekkatorque and the gnomes are granted refuge in Ironforge by the dwarves, establishing Tinker Town.[125] World of Warcraft[] - King Varian Wrynn is kidnapped. Bolvar Fordragon becomes Regent-Lord of Stormwind. "Varian" later (around the time of the end of The Burning Crusade) returns to the throne. - Deadmines (Classic) - Ragefire Chasm (Classic) - Wailing Caverns - Shadowfang Keep (Classic) - Stormwind Stockade (Classic) - Blackfathom Deeps - Gnomeregan - Scarlet Monastery - Razorfen Kraul and Razorfen Downs - Uldaman - Zul'Farrak - Scholomance (Classic) - Temple of Atal'Hakkar - Blackrock Mountain - Stratholme (Classic) Mysteries of Maraudon[] Ruins of the Dire Maul[] - Dire Maul - Warpwood Quarter - Capital Gardens - Gordok Commons - In Year 25, the majority of elves, including the Prince Tortheldrin, were killed by the Horde when they raided Dire Maul. The surviving ones fled the ruined city and wandered in the woods for years, trying to wean themselves off demonic power and feel whole again.[126] Battlegrounds[] Assault on Blackwing Lair[] Rise of the Blood God[] Dragons of Nightmare[] - Corrupted green dragons appear around the world from the Emerald Nightmare. - Exploration of Silithus begins. The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj[] Shadow of the Necropolis[] - Naxxramas - War of the Ancients Trilogy (present)[127] Drums of War[] - Open violence between the Alliance and Horde begins in Silithus and the Eastern Plaguelands. - By year 25, Prince Kael'thas and his followers on Outland have captured Tempest Keep. He sent the naaru M'uru back to Quel'Thalas. The Blood Knights under Lady Liadrin are formed by Rommath. Quel'Thalas enters negotiations with the Horde. Kael'thas is informed via Rommath.[123] - By the time draenei left Outland, blood elves are already a part of the Horde.[128] The Burning Crusade[] - 26[129] (Year 618 by the King's Calendar) - Velen leads a raid to liberate the Exodar and escape Outland. Blood elf saboteurs cause it to crash on Azeroth. - Rise of the Horde ends - World of Warcraft: The Comic begins» Before the Storm[] - Invasion of Outland[97][130] - The Dark Portal Opens under the command of Lord Kazzak. His forces are defeated by the Argent Dawn and Alliance and Horde forces. The latter create settlements in Outland. - The Dragons of Outland - Nexus Point - A Legion counterattack fails. The Portal is briefly closed, but later reopened as Alliance and Horde take the battle to Outland. The Burning Crusade[] The Black Temple[] - Black Temple - As the attack began, Illidan sent most of his demon hunters to Mardum, the Shattered Abyss, in order to retrieve the [Sargerite Keystone].[131] Upon their return, the demon hunters find that the Black Temple has fallen and are themselves captured and imprisoned by the Wardens.[132] The Gods of Zul'Aman[] Fury of the Sunwell[] - A resurrected Kael'thas and his felblood minions take M'uru to the Sunwell Plateau. Lady Liadrin and her Blood Knights join the Shattered Sun Offensive, along with the Aldor and Scryer factions. - The Twilight's Hammer recruit Archbishop Benedictus to the cult.[133] - Cho'gall travels to Northrend to weaken Yogg-Saron's bindings in Ulduar.[134] - Onyxia's Lair (Classic): Onyxia is slain by Varian Wrynn.[135] - Retaking of Andorhal Wrath of the Lich King[] Echoes of Doom[] - The Lich King Arthas reawakens and begins his campaign of conquest anew. - The Scarlet Crusade moves to Northrend in the wake of devastation, forming the Scarlet Onslaught. The Argent Crusade and Knights of the Ebon Blade are formed at the Battle for Light's Hope Chapel.[136] - Battle for the Ebon Hold - Zombie Infestation - The Scourge begin regular attacks across Azeroth. Wrath of the Lich King[] - 27[137] (Year 619 by the King's Calendar) - The war against the Lich King begins. - Naxxramas - Nexus War: The Wyrmrest Accord, the Kirin Tor, and its allies begin full-scale assaults on the Blue dragonflight and Malygos at Coldarra. - The Nexus - The Violet Hold - Mage - The Oculus - Eye of Eternity - Battle of Angrathar the Wrathgate[138] - Broken Front - Utgarde Keep - Azjol-Nerub and Ahn'kahet: The Old Kingdom - Drak'Tharon Keep - Gundrak - Halls of Stone and Halls of Lightning - The bronze dragonflight sends heroes seven years into the past to prevent the infinite dragonflight from interfering with the Culling of Stratholme. - Utgarde Pinnacle - Alliance and Horde battle for dominance at Wintergrasp. - Archavon the Stone Watcher is slain at the Vault of Archavon within Wintergrasp Fortress. Secrets of Ulduar[] - Ulduar - Yogg-Saron is defeated. Re-origination of Azeroth at the hands of Algalon the Observer is averted. - The second of the Vault of Archavon's four watchers falls, Emalon the Storm Watcher. Call of the Crusade[] - The Argent Tournament Grounds have been completed. Highlords Tirion Fordring and Darion Mograine have the forces of Alliance, Horde, Argent Crusade, and Knights of the Ebon Blade compete to decide which champions will participate in the final assault on Icecrown Citadel. - Trial of the Champion - The Argent Crusade's champions are sent to aid the Sunreavers and Silver Covenant against the Kvaldir at Hrothgar's Landing. - Trial of the Crusader/Trial of the Grand Crusader - Conflict between Alliance and Horde at the Isle of Conquest. - The third watcher of the Vault of Archavon falls, Koralon the Flame Watcher. Fall of the Lich King[] - The Ashen Verdict makes its final assault on Icecrown Citadel. - Forge of Souls - Pit of Saron - Halls of Reflection - Icecrown Citadel: The forces of the Ashen Verdict destroy the Lich King's mightiest servants. The Lich King Arthas is killed. Bolvar Fordragon is crowned the new Lich King. - The final watcher of the Vault of Archavon, Toravon the Ice Watcher, is destroyed. - Ruby Sanctum - Gelbin Mekkatorque and his gnomes retake Gnomeregan's surface. - The Darkspear trolls and their allies retake Echo Isles from Zalazane. - Pearl of Pandaria - Stormrage - War Against the Nightmare - Shaman - Dark Riders Cataclysm[] - 28[139] (Year 620 by the King's Calendar) The Shattering[] - Deathwing returns to Azeroth, scarring it with a great cataclysm. - Bloodsworn - The Council of Three Hammers: Fire and Iron - Tyrande & Malfurion: Seeds of Faith - Invasion of Gilneas - Sylvanas Windrunner: Edge of Night - Curse of the Worgen ends« - Gilneas is left in ruins - Genn Greymane: Lord of His Pack ends« - The invasion of Gilneas ceases at the Greymane Wall. Though the Forsaken lose their holdings in Gilneas, a truce halts the Gilneas Liberation Front from entering Silverpine Forest. - Lady Sylvanas Windrunner is assassinated by Lord Godfrey but resurrected after Godfrey and his allies are forced to retreat. - Shadowfang Keep - Battle for Gilneas - Kezan is destroyed; the Bilgewater Cartel joins the Horde. - Bilgewater Harbor is built in Azshara. - Trade Prince Jastor Gallywix writes his autobiography, Trade Secrets of a Trade Prince. - The Blood Gate in Zuldazar is destroyed, prompting King Rastakhan to ban the usage of blood magic.[140][141] - Baine Bloodhoof: As Our Fathers Before Us - Wolfheart - Velen: Prophet's Lesson - Varian Wrynn: Blood of Our Fathers - The Defias Brotherhood is reborn under Vanessa VanCleef after roughly five years of inactivity.[142][143] - Deadmines - Stormwind Stockade - Twilight's Hammer agents ally with Ragnaros the Firelord at Mount Hyjal and attempt to burn down Nordrassil. - Vashj'ir appears. - Uldum - The Skywall is attacked. - Vortex Pinnacle. - Throne of the Four Winds: Al'akir is slain permanently. - Conflict breaks out at Tol Barad. - The demons of Baradin Hold are defeated. - Wildhammer Clan rejoins Alliance; Dragonmaw Clan rejoins the Horde. - Grim Batol - Bastion of Twilight: Cho'gall and Sinestra are defeated. - Thrall: Twilight of the Aspects - Blackrock Caverns - Blackwing Descent: The resurrected Nefarian and Onyxia are slain. Rise of the Zandalari[] - The Gurubashi and Amani trolls unite under the Zandalari. - Zul'Gurub: Jin'do the Godbreaker is killed. - Zul'Aman: Daakara is killed. Rage of the Firelands[] - Ragnaros and his minions try to set Nordrassil to flame. Fighting breaks out within the Firelands itself. - The area of Mount Hyjal that was scorched in the Second Battle of Mount Hyjal has been extinguished of flame and the forest has begun to regrow. Agents from the Firelands bypass or destroy the wards and reinvade the area. - Firelands: Sulfuron Keep is sieged. - Fandral Staghelm is killed as leader of the Druids of the Flame. - Ragnaros the Firelord is permanently defeated in the Firelands. - World of Warcraft: Traveler The Hour of Twilight[] - 29[144] (Year 621 by the King's Calendar) - The final assault on Deathwing and the Twilight's Hammer begins. - Charge of the Aspects - End Time - Well of Eternity: Agents of the Alliance and Horde are sent back 10,028 years to retrieve the Dragon Soul from the War of the Ancients. - Hour of Twilight: The siege of Wyrmrest Temple. Archbishop Benedictus is revealed to be the "Twilight Father" and is killed. - Dragon Soul: Deathwing is destroyed by Thrall and the Dragon Aspects at the Maelstrom using the Dragon Soul. A second cataclysm is averted. The Aspects are reduced to mortal state and the "Age of Mortals" begins. Mists of Pandaria[] Mists of Pandaria[] - Quest for Pandaria - Tides of War - Attack on Theramore Isle - Alliance-Horde war evolves into a full-scale conflict - 30[145] (Year 622 by the King's Calendar) - The Skyseeker crashes into the Wandering Isle. - Pandaren of Shen-zin Su split into two major groups, Tushui and Huojin and join the Alliance and Horde, respectively. - Pandaria is accidentally discovered by the Alliance and Horde fleets. - Anduin Wrynn is captured by the Horde but later escapes. - Battle of the Serpent's Heart. - The sha threat caused by the massive surge of negative energy becomes a grave danger for Pandaria and its denizens. - Zandalari under the leadership of Zul, and other allied troll tribes rejoin with their ancient mogu allies and resurrect Lei Shen. Landfall[] - The Alliance and Horde navies make landfall in the Krasarang Wilds of Pandaria. - A Little Patience - Dagger in the Dark: An assassination attempt by the Garrosh's men forces Vol'jin into hiding. - Lion's Landing - Domination Point - Assault on Zan'vess - Garrosh's agents raid Darnassus to sabotage Lor'themar's negotiations with the Alliance.[146] - Purge of Dalaran: The Horde is removed from Dalaran. - The [Divine Bell] is shattered. The Thunder King[] - The Zandalari ally once more with a revived Lei Shen and his mogu subjects. - The Kirin Tor Offensive and Sunreaver Onslaught land on the Isle of Thunder. - Throne of Thunder Escalation[] - Vol'jin returns to Durotar. The Darkspear Rebellion begins. - The Alliance forms a truce with the rebels to take out Garrosh Hellscream. - Battlefield: Barrens - The rebels liberate Razor Hill. - Deepwind Gorge: Alliance and Horde battle in the Valley of the Four Winds. - Battle on the High Seas - Blood in the Snow - Dark Heart of Pandaria Siege of Orgrimmar[] - Heart of Y'Shaarj is unearthed. - Garrosh Hellscream uses the Pools of Power to revive the Heart, destroying half of the Vale of Eternal Blossoms in the process. - Sha of Pride is unleashed. - Siege of Orgrimmar begins. - Timeless Isle appears. - 31[147] (Year 623 by the King's Calendar) Warlords of Draenor[] - -4, alternate timeline - War Crimes (Past) - Hellscream - Kairozdormu tells Garrosh that he intends for him to create the first of many new Hordes. - Not wanting to be a pawn, Garrosh betrays and kills Kairoz with a shard of the [Vision of Time]. - Garrosh uses the shard to convince Grommash Hellscream not to drink Mannoroth's blood, and to instead create the Iron Horde. - Gul'dan and the Stranger Warlords of Draenor[] - Grom rejects the demon blood, kills Mannoroth, and captures Gul'dan. - The Dark Portal on Draenor in Timeline B is connected to the one on Azeroth in the present of Timeline A; The portal's glow turns from green to red, and both timelines' events run simultaneously from this point. - The Iron Horde's initial invasion of Azeroth. - Lords of War - The Ironmarch pours out of the Dark Portal and makes it all the way to Blackrock Spire, destroying Nethergarde Keep along the way. - In retaliation, Khadgar assembles the champions of the Alliance and the Horde, leading them through the portal to stop the Iron Horde on Draenor once and for all. - In Tanaan Jungle, Draenor's Dark Portal is destroyed by the Azerothian strike force, severing its connection. - The Horde expedition arrives at Frostfire Ridge. They establish a garrison named Frostwall and help the Frostwolf Clan conquer Bladespire Citadel. - The Alliance expedition ventures into Shadowmoon Valley and establish contact with the local draenei, including Timeline B's Velen. They establish a garrison named Lunarfall. - Khadgar's offensive deals a crushing blow to the Iron Horde. - The Frostwolves and the Horde slay Warlord Fenris of the Thunderlord clan at Grom'gar and halt the Iron Horde's invasion during the Battle of Thunder Pass. - The Draenei and the Alliance force Ner'zhul into hiding after the Dark Star is purified by Velen's sacrifice, and successfully repel the Iron Horde invading Karabor. Later on, Ner'zhul meets his end in his clan's burial grounds. - Shattrath City is liberated from Iron Horde control and Blackhand is forced to escape, though not before killing Maraad and Orgrim Doomhammer during the confrontation. At some point, however, the liberated city is occupied by the Shadow Council. - In Nagrand, Warlord Dharl of the Burning Blade clan is slain at Hallvalor, followed by Garrosh Hellscream, who ultimately meets his end at Thrall's hands during the Siege of Grommashar. Later on, the Alliance, Horde and Cho'gall's pale orcs attack Highmaul, Kargath Bladefist is slain by adventurers while Imperator Mar'gok dies at Cho'gall's hands and the Gorian Empire is left crippled. - Warlord Azuka, Dharl's successor, is slain in Bladefury's Command by the commanders. - Inside Blackrock Foundry, adventurers defeat Blackhand once and for all. - Grommash's failure breeds dissent within the ranks, affording the warlock Gul'dan the opportunity to usurp the Iron Horde and summon the demonic Burning Legion to Draenor, joined by Warlord Kilrogg of the Bleeding Hollow clan. Fury of Hellfire[] - Gul'dan persuades the Iron Horde's remaining leaders to serve the Burning Legion, imprisons Grommash, and also recruits the aid of Shadow-Sage Iskar and the Sethekk arakkoa. - Gul'dan takes control of Hellfire Citadel, intending to use it as a staging area for the Legion to invade Draenor. He then proceeds to summon the demon lord Archimonde. - The heroes of Azeroth assault the citadel’s gates, invading from both land and sea. - Aided by Khadgar, Yrel, Durotan, and a freed Grommash, Azeroth's champions battle their way through the horrors unleashed within Hellfire Citadel. - After a harrowing struggle that nearly destroys Draenor, the heroes are able to cast down Archimonde. - As he falls, Archimonde hurls Gul'dan through a portal to fulfill his pact with the Legion. - King Magni Bronzebeard awakens in Old Ironforge. - Gul'dan re-opens the sealed portal inside the Tomb of Sargeras, beginning the Burning Legion's Third invasion of Azeroth. - Khadgar warns the faction leaders of the Legion's return,[154] then heads to Karazhan for answers.[155] - Gul'dan gains access to the Nightwell by allying with the nightborne, led by Elisande.[156] - Jarl Skovald and the Tideskorn accept the fel-gift and become Felskorn. - Gul'dan also penetrates the Vault of the Wardens thanks to Cordana Felsong, stealing the crystal within which Illidan's corpse was contained. He travels to Black Rook Hold and severs Illidan's body from his soul, causing the night elf dead buried within the fortress to return as maddened ghosts. - During the attack on the Vault, Maiev released the captive Illidari. The demon hunters escaped from the besieged Vault and headed to Stormwind City and Orgrimmar under Khadgar's guidance.[157] Legion[] - Dark Mirror[158] - The Alliance and the Horde fight the Battle for the Broken Shore. - High King Varian Wrynn and Warchief Vol'jin are killed, Tirion Fordring presumably dead but survives. - Sylvanas Windrunner becomes Warchief of the Horde. Anduin Wrynn becomes King of Stormwind as well as High King of the Alliance. - The Burning Legion makes assassination attempts in Orgrimmar and Stormwind as the faction leaders gathered to mourn the Warchief and the High King, but the Illidari undid their plans and are as such accepted as allies among the two factions. - The Legion openly launches full-scale invasions on Kalimdor and the Eastern Kingdoms. - Dalaran is moved above Karazhan. - Khadgar, Magni, Brann Bronzebeard and an adventurer go to Ulduar. Magni tells them to seek the Pillars of Creation. - Dalaran is moved to the Broken Isles to coordinate the search for the Pillars. - Dargrul the Underking betrays the Highmountain tauren by murdering Highchieftain Ulan Highmountain and stealing the [Hammer of Khaz'goroth].[159] - The first signs of the Emerald Nightmare appear in the Emerald Dreamway.[160] - Khadgar and the class orders help Senegos fight off the Withered of Azurewing. - A logbook is found indicating Sylvanas Windrunner's arrival to the Broken Isles.[161] - The class orders help Prince Farondis regain his status and undo the naga's advances led by Tidemistress Athissa. - Queen Azshara makes an appearance in Azsuna before Prince Farondis, and announces the coming of her Wrath. - The Wrath of Azshara is defeated and the first Pillar of Creation, the [Tidestone of Golganneth], is retrieved. - The Nightmare spreads throughout Val'sharah and takes notably Cenarius, Thaon Moonclaw and Elothir. - Xavius publicly returns. Ysera is corrupted and then put down. - The second Pillar, the [Tear of Elune], is secured. - The ghosts of Black Rook Hold are dealt with. - Dargrul destroys Riverbend, home of the Rivermane tribe. - The Skyhorn and the Stonedark are rallied under the Highmountain Tribe. The Bloodtotem however accept the fel-gift and become Felsworn. - The coalition launches an assault on the home of the drogbar. Dargrul destroys another village. - The class orders guided by Spiritwalker Ebonhorn enter Neltharion's Lair and kill Dargrul, securing the third Pillar, the [Hammer of Khaz'goroth]. - The Alliance led by Genn Greymane assaults Sylvanas and the Horde. The Skyfire is destroyed. - The class orders pass the different trials of the people of Stormheim and obtain the blessing of Yotnar, of the Thorignir, and of the ancient vrykul kings. - The combined assault of the Legion and the Felskorn at the Gates of Valor is repelled. - They finally pass Odyn's test in the Halls of Valor, kill God-King Skovald and secure the penultimate Pillar, the [Aegis of Aggramar]. - At the same time, they obtain the blessing of Ashildir and are granted audience with Eyir. Sylvanas' attempt to enslave her is thwarted by Genn Greymane. - Xavius is defeated within the Emerald Nightmare, purging the Emerald Dream from its influence. Return to Karazhan[] - The Burning Legion invades the magical tower of Karazhan, seeking to turn it into a second gateway to Azeroth as they did with the Tomb of Sargeras. - Khadgar and the class orders thwart the Legion's efforts, culminating the defeat of the demon leader, Viz'aduum the Watcher, with the help of Medivh. - Helya is killed in her realm of Helheim during the Trial of Valor, finally freeing Prime Designate Odyn and his Valarjar army from the Halls of Valor. Patch 7.1.5[] - Alternate Gul'dan is defeated at the Nighthold and Suramar City is retaken. The Tomb of Sargeras[] - The Armies of Legionfall are formed. - The Burning Legion summons in many Legion Ships and launches great assaults on the Broken Isles. - The Legionfall attack the Broken Shore and secure Deliverance Point, Aalgen Point and Vengeance Point. - Mephistroth, the mastermind behind the Legion's invasion, is defeated within the Cathedral of Eternal Night and the Aegis of Aggramar is installed, as the first Pillar to be used to seal the Tomb. - Anduin Wrynn retrieves Shalamayne at the Broken Shore. - Anduin: Son of the Wolf (present): Anduin is attacked by a dreadlord in Stormwind Keep. Patch 7.2.5[] - The Deaths of Chromie (present) - Kil'jaeden is defeated and the Tomb of Sargeras is sealed once more using the Pillars of Creation. - The citizens of Dalaran panic, the Kirin Tor tries to keep the population under control while doomsayers and disguised demons cause more unrest. Shadows of Argus[] - The draenei launch a full assault on the Burning Legion's homeworld of Argus using their newly constructed ship, the Vindicaar. Meeting with the Army of the Light above Krokuun, the latter's ship, the Xenedar, is shot down. - Velen reunites with the krokul of Krokuun. Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner are found after 22 years of absence. - Krokuun is liberated, until the Army of the Light's advance is crushed by Aggramar at Nath'raxas Hold. - The Army goes to Eredath where they retrieve the [Sigil of Awakening] and the Crest of Knowledge. - Alleria Windrunner deals with the Void threat locked away in the Seat of the Triumvirate, the dark naaru L'ura. - The Army wages guerilla war with the Legion in the Antoran Wastes. - The heroes of Azeroth invade Antorus, the Burning Throne, the seat of the Burning Legion's power, where they free the spirits of the imprisoned titan Pantheon and ultimately defeat the world-soul of Argus. The Pantheon imprison Sargeras at the Seat of the Pantheon, with Illidan Stormrage staying behind, but not before Sargeras impales Silithus with his sword. - Jaina: Reunion - Magni: The Speaker Patch 7.3.5[] - Windrunner: Three Sisters - Before the Storm[164][165] - The Alliance and the Horde recruit allied races. Battle for Azeroth[] - 33-34[145] (Year 625 - 626 by the King's Calendar) - The Fourth War begins with the Burning of Teldrassil.[166] - Battle for Lordaeron - War in Kul Tiras & War in Zandalar - Battle for Stromgarde - The Alliance and the Horde respectively ally with the Kul Tirans and the Zandalari. - Uldir Tides of Vengeance[] - Faction Assaults - Battle for Darkshore - Battle of Dazar'alor: Rastakhan is killed by the Alliance. Talanji becomes Queen of Zandalar. Patch 8.1.5[] Rise of Azshara[] - Both factions crash on Nazjatar. - Queen Azshara is defeated in the Eternal Palace, but manages to release N'Zoth. Patch 8.2.5[] - The Alliance and Horde War Campaigns end outside Orgrimmar with the death of Varok Saurfang and the abdication of Sylvanas Windrunner. Alliance and Horde call for an armistice. Visions of N'Zoth[] - The Black Empire rises in Uldum and Pandaria. - The power of Azeroth is unleashed on Ny'alotha, the Waking City, destroying N'Zoth. - The position of Warchief is replaced by a Horde Council. Shadowlands[] - 35-36[145] (Year 627 - 628 by the King's Calendar) - A Moment in Verse - Shadows Rising - Terror by Torchlight - Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms - Exploring Azeroth: Kalimdor - Death Rising - We Ride Forth - Sylvanas defeats the Lich King Bolvar Fordragon and destroys the Helm of Domination, opening a rift through the Veil separating Azeroth from the Shadowlands.[167] Mawsworn kyrian kidnap Anduin Wrynn, Jaina Proudmoore, Thrall, and Baine Bloodhoof and bring them to the Maw.[168] Without the Lich King's control, the Scourge begin to rampage across Azeroth. - Turalyon, with the support of the House of Nobles, becomes the regent of Stormwind. - Tyrande Whisperwind kills Nathanos Blightcaller at the Marris Stead.[169] - Adventurers and the Knights of the Ebon Blade enter the Maw to rescue the kidnapped leaders.[170] The adventurers escape the Jailer by activating a First One waystone to Oribos,[171] becoming Maw Walkers. - The Maw Walkers follow their only lead—the Mawsworn kyrian—to Bastion,[172][173] where in the process of trying to get an audience with the Archon,[174] they discover a conspiracy by the rebel Forsworn. The House of Constructs and House of Rituals invade Bastion.[175] - The Maw Walkers travel to Maldraxxus to discover the cause of the invasion[176][177] and ally with Baroness Draka and other necrolords still loyal to the missing Primus. They assemble the Blade of the Primus and open the Seat of the Primus, where they discover a message left by its former occupant stating that the Eternal Ones have to work together to prevent the Jailer from escaping the Maw and reaching "the sepulcher".[178] - The Maw Walkers travel to Ardenweald to deliver the warning to the Winter Queen.[179] They battle an invasion from the Drust and bond with the wildseed of the dead Ysera[180] before gaining an audience with the Winter Queen, who resurrects Ysera[181] and informs the Maw Walkers that Ardenweald is in dire need of anima. She sends them to Revendreth to ask Sire Denathrius for help.[182][183] - In Revendreth, the Maw Walkers discover that Denathrius is responsible for the anima drought.[184] They ally with the Sinfall rebellion and rescue its leader—Denathrius' son Prince Renathal—from the Maw[185] and save some of his allies from Torghast, Tower of the Damned.[186] The rebels confront Denathrius, but he defeats them and releases his anima stores into the Maw, causing it to grow dramatically.[187] - The Maw Walkers join one of the four covenants to help them regain their strength and combat the various threats they face.[188][189] - The Maw Walkers return to Torghast,[190] gradually rescue Baine,[191] Jaina,[192] and Thrall,[193] and ally with the imprisoned Runecarver.[194] Anduin remains imprisoned by Sylvanas and the Jailer.[195] - Sanguine Depths: Maw Walkers rescue the naaru Z'rali from Denathrius' minions. - Castle Nathria: Denathrius is defeated and imprisoned in his sword Remornia through use of the Light with Z'rali's help.[196] - Sylvanas gives Anduin the ultimatum of joining her and the Jailer willingly or being forced to serve.[197] Chains of Domination[] - The Jailer pulls the realm of Korthia into the Maw. He dominates Anduin and uses him to obtain the sigils of the Archon[198] and the Winter Queen.[199] - The united covenants and the Ebon Blade invade Korthia as the Death's Advance.[200] - The Runecarver is freed and revealed to be the Primus, but the Jailer obtains his sigil.[201] The Primus declares that the Maw Walkers have to defeat the Jailer in his stronghold. The covenants create replacement sigils that they will need in order to pursue the Jailer if the assault fails.[202] - Sanctum of Domination: The Jailer expands the Maw to envelop Oribos and claims the Arbiter's sigil, the last one he needs. Sylvanas turns against him and the Jailer restores a missing fragment of her soul before discarding her and escaping with Anduin through a portal to the Sepulcher.[207] - The Primus sets out to find a replacement for the Arbiter's sigil so he can create a key to follow the Jailer to the Sepulcher.[1] Eternity's End[] - Maw Walkers and covenant forces open a gateway to Zereth Mortis to conduct the final campaign against Zovaal, gaining allies with the Enlightened of Haven. - Sylvanas assists the heroes in an effort to save Anduin, and Maw Walkers accompanied by several heroes of Azeroth attack the Sepulcher of the First Ones. With their help, Anduin breaks free from the Jailer's domination. - The Crown of Wills is created from the shattered shards of the Helm of Domination, and used to protect the Maw Walkers against the Jailer's domination magic. - Preparations are made to build a new Arbiter with Saezurah. When the initial effort is thwarted by the nathrezim, Pelagos offers his own soul to become the new Arbiter. - The Maw Walkers assault the Sepulcher one last time and defeat Zovaal, bringing the end of the war against the Jailer. - End of the anima drought all across the Shadowlands. The souls of the dead are no longer sent in the Maw. - Sylvanas returns to Oribos to be judged by the new Arbiter. She submits herself to the judgment of Tyrande Whisperwind, who declares her penance to be scouring the Maw to send every soul there to the Arbiter for judgment. Sylvanas accepts and enters the Maw. - Haunted by his time as the Jailer's puppet, Anduin Wrynn bids farewell to Genn Greymane and joins Sylvanas in the Maw. Patch 9.2.5[] - The Winter Queen gifts The Sisters' Tear to Tyrande Whisperwind. - The Scourge forces in the Ghostlands are rallied by Vorath and attack Tranquillien. The Blood Knights lead defense and counterattack against Vorath in Deatholme with a ranseur empowered by the magics of the Shadowlands. - The Forsaken return to Brill and start rebuilding it. Prominent Forsaken team up in an effort to clear the blight out of the Ruins of Lordaeron. Calia Menethil steps forward to lead the charge, traveling to the House of Plagues in Maldraxxus in order to gain a valuable means against the blight. With Calia's plan successful, the blight in Lordaeron is dispersed. The Forsaken reclaim the city and establish a new Desolate Council. Dragonflight[] - 40[145] (Year 632 by the King's Calendar) - Exploring Azeroth: Northrend - The Vow Eternal - Lor'themar Theron and Thalyssra are wed, and the dragons hear the call of the Dragon Isles, beckoning them home. - A tempest is unleashed across Azeroth. - The dracthyr awaken from stasis in the Forbidden Reach. Subsequently, Raszageth the Storm Eater is freed from her imprisonment within the Froststone Vault. Two of the dracthyr weyrns, the Obsidian Warders and the Dark Talons, join the Alliance and Horde respectively. The Ebon Scales, meanwhile, turn against the Aspects and rename themselves the Sundered Flame. - Alliance and Horde expeditions travel to the Dragon Isles where the adventurers aided the dragonflights and the Dragon Aspects in restoring the oathstones. - Adventurers managed to kill Raszageth in the Vault of the Incarnates, but the remaining Primal Incarnates - Fyrakk, Iridikron, and Vyranoth - were freed from their prison. Embers of Neltharion[] Fractures in Time[] Fury Incarnate[] Guardians of the Dream[] The War Within[] 41+ (Year 633 - (TBD) by the King's Calendar) - Mysterious visions sweep across Azeroth's population, leading to worry and chaos, the Locus-Walker reveals that similar visions plagued his people just before K'aresh was destroyed by Dimensius the All-Devouring - Kadgar and the Kirin Tor pledge the city of Dalaran once again to defending Azeroth, teleporting it to the legendary island of Khaz Algar, leading to the destruction of the city at the hands of Neurbians summoned by Xal'atath. Future[] - The Deaths of Chromie (possible future) - Anduin: Son of the Wolf (possible future) Notes[] - A few quests mentioned that Cataclysm took place 6 years after World of Warcraft.[208][209] However, multiple other sources - including Blizzard - established that the gap between World of Warcraft and Cataclysm was only 3 years. References[] - ^ a b [60] Covenants Renewed - ^ [60] Convoy of the Covenants - ^ [10-30] Perfectly Pure - ^ [10-30] Too Big For His Britches - ^ Garley's Journal - ^ The Burning Crusade Townhall: Draenei - ^ Scalecommander Azurathel#Quotes: Dervishian says: Did... did you ask Nozdormu how long we slept? Scalecommander Emberthal says: Nearly twenty thousand years. - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 70 - ^ The Lost Codex 2018-11-03. Blizzcon 2018 Interview: Alex Afrasiabi & Patrick Dawson - Story and Systems | The Lost Codex. YouTube. Retrieved on 2018-11-03. - ^ [10-30] Anguish of Nifflevar - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 78 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 93 - ^ [10-45] Bringer of the Light - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 80 - ^ Game Guide: World Dungeons - Dire Maul - ^ Killing Ground, pg. 7 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 87 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 91 - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-1/6#readmode - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/blog/8441649 (dead link) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 114 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 115 - ^ a b http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-1/10#readmode - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia/Cenarius - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Kalimdor, pg. 53 - ^ a b http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/1 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 121 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 122 - ^ [60G] Rampaging Giants - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 125 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 24 - 25 - ^ Brothers in Blood - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/2#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 129 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 133 - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/3#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 134 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 135 - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/4#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 137 - ^ Races of World of Warcraft: Gnome - ^ [10-35] If These Stones Could Speak - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 25 - 29 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 138 - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/5#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 139 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 29 - 32 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 144 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 37 - 38 - ^ The Druids Arise - ^ [The War of the Shifting Sands] "It has been nearly a thousand years since the 'War of the Shifting Sands.'" - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 145 - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/6#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 148 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 151 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 39 - ^ [20-30] The Etymidian - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 152 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 44 - 46 - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia: Farstriders - ^ [10-30] The Trident of Naz'jan - ^ [10-30] The Emissary - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 46 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 47 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 49 - ^ World of Warcraft manual, 174. "The gnomes have not had a proper king or queen for over four hundred years." - ^ [50] The Legend of Mechagon - ^ [10-40] Gestating Genesaur - ^ [10-40] Chasing Shadows - ^ Shaman, prologue - ^ http://us.battle.net/wow/en/game/lore/story-so-far/chapter-2/7#readmode - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 153 - 156 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 50 - ^ BlizzCon 2013 – World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor, The Adventure Continues Panel Transcript - ^ Rise of the Horde: "K’ure was dying, trapped in the very vessel that it had provided when it had crashed into this world two hundred years past." (at the time of young Durotan's first meeting with Velen). - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 53 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 54 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 55 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 158 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 56 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 57 - ^ Day of the Dragon, pg. 201 - 202 - ^ [15-30] Legacy of the High Elves - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 159 - 160 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 161 - 162 - ^ "Around the time of Medivh's birth on Azeroth..." - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1 - ^ Dead link: Tweet; Archived: Archive lore tweets from loreology - ^ a b c d e f g World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 105 - 111 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 58 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 63 - 66 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 68 - 69 - ^ a b c d e World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 70 - 76 - ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 77 - 100 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 115 - 125 - ^ Warcraft: Orcs & Humans manual#Chronicles of the War in Azeroth - ^ a b c d e f g h i Timeline (from official site, 2007) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 125 - 129 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 129 - 138 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 138 - 148 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 148 - 158 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 158 - 174 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 175 - 178 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 182 - 198 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 12 - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (2014-11-06): "I double checked - Nobundo learned shamanism in year 10." - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 26 - 27 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 29 places the War of the Spider after Year 10 but before 15 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3 places these events in the range Years 15 - 18 (pg. 29, 37) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 36 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 37 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 37 - 39 - ^ World of Warcraft: Game Manual#Gnomes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 56 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 60 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 61 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 80 - ^ Ultimate Visual Guide - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (2013-02-20). Retrieved on 2019-06-20. “Most likely a bit before Chen joined Rexxar to take on Daelin Proudmoore.” - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 104 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 113 - ^ Harrison Jones#Quotes - ^ a b Blood of the Highborne - ^ Thinking with Portals - A Memorandum on Proper Portal Usage, in 24 A.D. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 114 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 120 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 131 - 132 - ^ Rise of the Horde - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 151 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 151 - ^ As seen in the Demon Hunter opening cinematic. - ^ [8-45] Return to the Black Temple - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 162 - 163 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 163 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 164 - 167 - ^ [The Path of Redemption]: The Alliance and the Horde were going to come en masse in response to a great plague that the Lich King was about to unleash upon them. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 174 - ^ According to World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, the fall of Naxxramas took place before the Nexus War and Malygos' death, which in turn took place before the Battle of the Wrath Gate. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 195 - ^ [10-60] Forbidden Practices - ^ [10-60] Offensively Defensive - ^ [5-30] Evidence Collection - ^ [5-30] A Vision of the Past - ^ The Deathwing Raid: Interview with Scott Mercer - ^ a b c d Steve Danuser on the WoW forums - ^ The Characters of Warcraft/Lor'themar Theron - ^ World of Warcraft: Ultimate Visual Guide, Updated and Expanded - ^ Loreology on Twitter (dead link) - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (dead link) - ^ BlizzCon 2013 - Iron Horde. "With just two years to build an army..." "This is a two year old army at most..." - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (dead link) - ^ Magni: Fault Lines: "Been four years since you turned to stone." Cataclysm happened in year 28. - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (dead link) - ^ Legion: Feature Overview - ^ Harbingers: Khadgar - ^ Nightborne: Twilight of Suramar - ^ [8-45] Illidari, We Are Leaving - ^ Official Preview - "Taking place just prior to the first demon invasions of Legion" - ^ Highmountain: A Mountain Divided - "I witnessed the Alliance and the Horde's counterattack against the Legion. It failed." - Mayla Highmountain - ^ Druid Campaign - ^ [Captain's Log of the Queen's Reprisal] - ^ Before the Storm, Embrace happened 5 years ago (ch. 14); Anduin is already 18 (ch. 11) - ^ <s Alex Afrasiabi on Twitter - "@Kynmarcher I believe we'd be going into 33 with BFA" (Dead link) - ^ a b c Christie Golden on Twitter (2018-04-05). Retrieved on 2018-04-06. “Great question! YES. "Elegy" is a novella which, in tandem with "A Good War," tells both H and A sides of the burning of the World Tree. "Before the Storm" takes place BEFORE that event. They are two thoroughly different stories.” - ^ a b c Christie Golden on Twitter (2018-04-05). Retrieved on 2018-04-06. “Someone raised a great question. "Before the Storm" focuses on Anduin and Sylvanas & takes place BEFORE the World Tree burning. Elegy" is a novella that, along with @RoBrooks13 "A Good War," depicts both sides of that event -and- has a few non-spoilery references to BtS.” - ^ War of the Thorns: Chapter 1 - ^ The King & The Queen - ^ [50] Cause for Distraction - ^ [50] The Banshee's Champion - ^ [50] Through the Shattered Sky - ^ [50] Stand as One - ^ [50] Understanding the Shadowlands - ^ [50] Seek the Ascended - ^ [51-60] Walk the Path, Aspirant - ^ [51-60] Imminent Danger - ^ [51-60] Follow the Path - ^ [51-60] The Arbiter's Will - ^ [53-60] The Door to the Unknown - ^ [55-60] Journey to Ardenweald - ^ [55-60] One Special Spirit - ^ [55-60] Awaken the Dreamer - ^ [55-60] The Court of Winter - ^ [55-60] The Queen's Request - ^ [58-60] A Reflection of Truth - ^ [58-60] A Royal Key - ^ [58-60] Torghast, Tower of the Damned - ^ [60] The Master of Lies - ^ [60] The Looming Dark - ^ [60] Choosing Your Purpose - ^ [60] Into Torghast - ^ [60] The Search for Baine - ^ [60] Torment Chamber: Jaina - ^ [60] Torment Chamber: Thrall - ^ [60] Deep Within - ^ [60] The Captive King - ^ [60R] Redemption for the Redeemer - ^ [60] The Highlord's Vision - ^ [60] The First Move - ^ [60] The Heart of Ardenweald - ^ [60] Charge of the Covenants - ^ [60] Untangling the Sigil - ^ [60] The Primus Returns - ^ [60] They Could Be Anyone - ^ [60] Dreadlords! - ^ [60] The Nathrezim - ^ [60] The Power of Elune - ^ Sanctum of Domination ending cinematic - ^ [5-30] Evidence Collection - Captain Alpert: "I haven't seen a red bandana in five years. Could this shadowy figure be attempting to reform the Defias Brotherhood?" - ^ [30-35] If You're Not Against Us... - Matoclaw: "A decade ago, a great battle took place here on the summit of Mount Hyjal. Archimonde the Defiler commanded a swarm of demons to march upon the World Tree and claim its power for his own."


--- [Dark Portal - Warcraft Wiki - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft] ---
Dark Portal - This article is about the Dark Portal which connected Azeroth to Draenor, Outland and now alternate Draenor. For other uses, see Dark Portal (disambiguation). The Dark Portal, also known as the Great Portal,[1] is a gateway[2] between the worlds of Azeroth and Draenor (now Outland). The Azeroth side portal is located in what is now known as the Blasted Lands in southern Eastern Kingdoms, while its counterpart is in Hellfire Peninsula on Outland, on the Stair of Destiny. Before the destruction of Draenor, it was located in the eastern section of Tanaan Jungle. Originally created in a joint effort between Gul'dan and Medivh, the Dark Portal served as the Old Horde's method of reaching Azeroth and beginning the First War, as a way to weaken it for the Burning Legion's eventual invasion. It since served as a link between worlds during the Alliance of Lordaeron's Invasion of Draenor, the united invasion of Outland, and the war in the alternate universe Draenor. The portal appears to be functionally indestructible, as the Alliance under Khadgar were only able to destroy the structure, not the portal itself. Since making its debut in Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness, the Dark Portal remains one of the Warcraft universe's most recognizable and iconic structures. History The first opening The Dark Portal was created through a joint effort between the human mage Medivh, possessed by the Dark Titan Sargeras, and the warlocks of the orcish Shadow Council led by Gul'dan as a means to allow the Old Horde, under the demonic influence of the Burning Legion, to invade the world of Azeroth. Following Medivh's instructions, Gul'dan and Warchief Blackhand had the Horde construct the Draenor side of the gateway on a convergence of ley lines on the eastern edge of Hellfire Peninsula.[3] Once the structure was complete, the orcish stonemasons who built it were betrayed and murdered by warlocks in order to prime its final seal.[4] Gul'dan and Medivh then worked together to tear a rift in the fabric of reality. On Draenor, nearly all of the Horde's draenei prisoners that still lived were brought to the base of the portal. The moment the ritual began, Gul'dan instantly drained all of their life essences, creating the massive spike of power needed to bridge the distance between the two worlds. Meanwhile, Medivh called on his powers as a Guardian of Tirisfal to rip open the Azerothian side of the rift in the Black Morass.[5] Due to the amount of magical power involved, almost every creature attuned to magic on Azeroth felt ripples from the portal's opening, though most couldn't detect where the disturbance came from.[6] Another consequence of the opening was that teleportation spells became perturbed by emanations from the region where the portal laid.[7] Blackhand immediately sent scouts from the Bleeding Hollow and Black Tooth Grin clans, along with warlock overseers, to establish a camp and build a stone frame around the Azerothian side of the rift in order to stabilize it.[5] The armies of the orcs subsequently began pouring through it into the unsuspecting Kingdom of Stormwind, beginning the First War. During the Second War, it served as a passage to untold numbers of orc and ogre warriors, reinforcing the Horde's already overflowing ranks. The lands around the Portal that were once dead swamps were being transformed into barren soil the color of blood, which was now teeming with strange, demonic beasts.[8] These Blasted Lands were the domain of the Black Tooth Grin clan, who were entrusted with the keeping of the Portal.[9] At the end of the Second War, following their defeat at the Siege of Blackrock Spire, some Horde forces escaped through the portal back to Draenor before it was secured by the forces of the Alliance of Lordaeron. To prevent the orcs from returning, the archmage Khadgar and his fellow magi cast a great spell that destroyed the gateway on Azeroth. The resultant blast of arcane energy also caused the Draenor side of the portal to explode.[10] Khadgar then convinced the Alliance High Command to construct Nethergarde Keep to keep watch over its ruins. Unbeknownst to the archmage and the people of Azeroth, however, the link between the worlds remained as an unseen tear in the fabric of reality.[11] The second opening On the Draenor side of the Portal, the elder shaman Ner'zhul, Chieftain of the Shadowmoon clan, planned to open multiple portals that would lead the Horde to new, unspoiled worlds to conquer.[12] Powering these portals, however, would require several mystical artifacts from Azeroth: the Book of Medivh, Jeweled Scepter of Sargeras, and Eye of Dalaran. To procure them, the elder shaman reopened the Dark Portal using the Skull of Gul'dan and sent his forces through, to strike quickly and retreat to Draenor once the enchanted objects were obtained. During that time, the Portal was protected by the entire Warsong clan and their leader, Grommash Hellscream. Malgrim Stormhand, second of the Thunderlord clan, also stayed behind with a dozen warriors. Some more Bonechewers and ogres also participated in the gateway's defense.[13] King Terenas of Lordaeron, convinced that the orcs were actually preparing a new invasion of Azeroth, assembled his most trusted lieutenants, including Khadgar and the paladin Turalyon, to form an expedition through the Portal to put an end to the orcish threat once and for all. But even after the Sons of Lothar managed to push to Draenor, battles still raged for the control of the Azerothian side of the Portal for months, with the two sides repeatedly winning and losing control of it.[14] Despite the Alliance counterattack, Ner'zhul finally opened his portals to other worlds, but he did not foresee the terrible price he would pay. The portals' tremendous energies tore Draenor apart. The orc chieftains Grommash Hellscream and Kilrogg Deadeye—who saw that Ner'zhul's portals would destroy their world, and his insanity would destroy their people—led their clans through the Dark Portal back to the relative safety of Azeroth. The Alliance expeditionary forces, meanwhile, remained on Draenor, agreeing to make the ultimate sacrifice by destroying the Dark Portal from their side in order to prevent that world's destruction from destroying Azeroth as well. There were indications they may have taken one of Ner'zhul's portals to another world, but they in fact managed to survive Draenor's destruction, taking refuge near the portal in hopes it may yet be opened again. The third opening After Illidan Stormrage and his allies took control of Outland, the blood elf Zerevor placed warding spells over the Portal.[15] The Dark Portal remained dormant for approximately twenty years until the Legion forces led by Lord Kazzak on Azeroth and Highlord Kruul on Outland performed a large-scale ritual under Kil'jaeden's guidance on both sides of the gateway.[16] Demons burst into Azeroth soon thereafter. With aid from Nethergarde Keep and the Argent Dawn,[17] armies of the Alliance and the Horde pushed the demons back through the Portal. The defenders of Azeroth, not satisfied with securing only one side of the Portal, pressed through to Outland, where they went on to reestablish contact with the lost Alliance expeditionary forces and tame the savage world, defeating many of its demonically corrupted inhabitants before they could threaten Azeroth. Despite continued attempts by the Burning Legion to reassert control over the Stair of Destiny—the Outland side of the Dark Portal—the gateway was kept open to allow for the free flow of supplies and reinforcements into Outland. Some time after the combined forces of the Alliance and Horde had taken control of the Outland side of the Portal, an army of fel orcs and nether dragons led by the death knight Ragnok Bloodreaver attempted to seize the Stair of Destiny. The defenders successfully fought back the assault, but a stray blast from one of the nether dragons resulted in the temporary closing of the gateway. The blue dragon Tyrygosa was, however, able to open a rift to Azeroth, which was stabilized by magicians of the Alliance and Horde after she and a group of nether dragons left through it.[18] These same magicians were presumably able to then use this rift to restore the Portal to proper working order. Several Broken tried to get to the Portal and escape Outland.[19] While the Alliance and Horde directed their forces to the Black Temple, Kael'thas Sunstrider and his Legion comrades made his return to Quel'Thalas through the Dark Portal,[20] while his armies took a portal in the Throne of Kil'jaeden to the Sunwell.[21] During the war against the Lich King, a naga sea witch Zhahara Darksquall created a storm in the crater of the Dark Portal to distract its guardians. Fel orc Rahjak then stepped to Azeroth through the portal and killed some of the guardians.[22] Since the Cataclysm, a fragile Alliance between Nethergarde Keep and Dreadmaul Hold was forged, even if neither side trusted one another in order to continue guarding the portal. Other than that, both sides would keep fighting against the demons coming through the Dark Portal and those surrounding it. The Dark Portal valley seemed abandoned when the Cloudkicker arrived with Makasa Flintwill and her companions. Upon landing, they found their allies from Kalimdor in the tents, Woodpaw clan gnolls with Jaggal and Sivet, Feral Scar yetis and their same-named leader, One-Eye and her three cubs, Wuul Breezerider, Elmarine, and Shagtusk. Upon reuniting with everyone and recapitulating the plan, the army entered Outland to attack the Hidden citadel.[23] The portal preempted This perception changed dramatically when powerful magic was used to redirect Azeroth's Dark Portal—not to another place, but to another time. The escaped Horde Warchief Garrosh Hellscream, having traveled across space and time to an alternate version of Draenor's past with the aid of the bronze dragon Kairozdormu, changed the parallel universe's course of events to prevent the demonic blood pact that ultimately led to the original opening of the Portal. Manipulating his people to suit his own ends, Garrosh instead orchestrated the creation of the Iron Horde, an uncorrupted—and seemingly unstoppable—orcish war machine under the command of Grommash. In Garrosh's Draenor, it was this Horde that constructed the Stair of Destiny, enslaving the members of the Shadow Council to power it. Finally, using the [Vision of Time], the very artifact with which he and Kairozdormu had arrived in the alternate timeline, Garrosh linked the Stair of Destiny from the past of his parallel universe to the present of ours, turning the Portal a bloody shade of red and initiating the Iron Horde Incursion. Adventurers once again stormed the Dark Portal, but not before Nethergarde Keep and its Horde counterpart, Okril'lon Hold, fell to the invading forces. Scrambling to regain lost ground but nevertheless better prepared than their predecessors, these heroes, led by none other than Dark Portal veteran Khadgar, Alliance hero Maraad, and the former Warchief Thrall fought the Ironmarch Vanguard back through the gateway and into the alternate Draenor. After confronting the orc leadership—the "Warlords of Draenor"—Khadgar and his companions used the Iron Horde's own advanced weaponry to destroy the Stair of Destiny once again, ending the immediate threat it presented to Azeroth. Unlike the last time, however, an older, wiser Khadgar had not trapped himself in Draenor: The Alliance and Horde quickly established fortified bases on the island of Ashran, where they conjured portals to Azeroth to allow for free passage to and from their homeworld. Meanwhile, skilled mages in Stormwind and Orgrimmar reestablished contact with Outland's Hellfire Peninsula using portals of their own, circumnavigating the newly severed connection between Azeroth and modern Outland. Azeroth's Dark Portal was redirected to convey troops and supplies to the fortresses of Warspear and Stormshield on Ashran. Given this security, it remained largely unattended, a silent monument to its own violent legacy. The path out of the Portal crater was widened extensively by the invaders, and the ramp of the portal, already grooved from the march of the orcs and their equipment from previous wars, bore the full brunt of much larger and heavier war machines in great numbers. The lower portion of the ramp was extensively damaged, appearing battered and frail as if ready to break apart. At an unknown point after the end of the war in Draenor, the connection between the alternate Draenor and Azeroth closed.[24] World of Warcraft When World of Warcraft launched, the Dark Portal was a noticeable (but unusable) feature in the Blasted Lands, located southeast of Stormwind in the Eastern Kingdoms. The Portal is located in the southeastern corner of the Blasted Lands and (until patch 2.0.1) was surrounded by elite demons and servants of the named demons, and the glow around the Portal's gateway was blue, indicating its inactivity. When a player walked through the gate they merely passed through to the back of the gate as if nothing was there - the portal was merely for show in game. At the time, the portal was considered to be decorative only, a piece of Warcraft lore to look at. The Portal on the Azeroth side appears to be rather simple - the only decoration on it being the two "guardians" on either side of the gateway and the coiled snake-head above it. With the announcement of The Burning Crusade, it was revealed that the Dark Portal would be reopened and be the primary means of traveling to Outland. In preparation for the expansion, Blizzard released patch 2.0.1, "Before the Storm", which prepared the original areas of the world for the impending expansion. In addition to the changes to the map, the addition of new NPCs and the new means of transportation to the new races' capitals, the demons and demon-slaves were removed from around the Dark Portal and the crater it rests in and replaced with what appears to be a base camp of both the Horde and the Alliance, either helping those going in, or keeping something from coming out. The glow around the gateway turned green, indicating that the Portal is open. The usually quiet portal temporarily became a hub of server activity when a quest ( [60] Into the Breach) associated with the World Event "The Dark Portal Opens" took place there. Going through the Portal, like accessing the blood elf and draenei starting areas, once required the The Burning Crusade expansion pack to be installed; since patch 4.2, this content is included with all paid accounts. Prior to this, when a player tried to enter the Dark Portal without having that expansion pack installed, the player would simply pass through to the rear side and get a notification reading "Burning Crusade Expansion Pack Required". A player used to need to have a character of level 58 or higher, but this is no longer a requirement. If the Expansion Pack was installed, but the character is under level 58, the player used to get "Must be Level 58", but now players are able to access the region at any level. The 'Travel hubs' section below includes directions for reaching the Dark Portal before level 58. See the Stair of Destiny for information about the other side of the portal. Reopening - Main article: Dark Portal Opens The final patch before the release of The Burning Crusade (2.0.3) included a world event surrounding the reopening of the Dark Portal. Invading Felguards and invading Voidwalkers began to pour through the dark portal, and the camps in front of the portal were manned by Argent Dawn defenders. The leader of these forces offered the quest Into the Breach. This quest simply involved killing six of the invading Felguards (due to number of people fighting for these kills.) Completing the quest earned you the [Tabard of the Protector], a special version of the [Tabard of the Argent Dawn]. When used, the Tabard produced a visual effect similar to [Holy Nova], and the wearer would flex. Lord Kazzak also vanished from his former place in the Blasted Lands to take up his new residence in Outland. His vacated office was taken up by Highlord Kruul. Not content to sit in a hole in the Tainted Scar, Highlord Kruul would periodically lay siege to major cities and other areas, summoning demon minions and killing everybody in sight until driven off. Travel hubs To reach the Dark Portal, Alliance players can fly or ride to Nethergarde Keep, while Horde players can travel to Dreadmaul Hold. From either base, players may then ride down the main road down to the Portal crater. With patch 3.2.0, there are portals to the Dark Portal from near the portal trainers in major cities (e.g.: the Mage Tower in Stormwind, the mage trainer area in Silvermoon, the Pools of Vision in Thunder Bluff). These portals require level 58 to use and will deposit the player into a crack in the crater in front of the portal. Alliance and Horde portals all drop players in the same location; though players will be Honorless Targets for thirty seconds following their arrival in the Blasted Lands, players on PvP servers will not be completely safe from combat until they reach the Stair of Destiny on the Outland side of the portal. Closest flight path in Azeroth NPCs Physical appearance Every time the rift between Azeroth and Draenor has been widened, it has been seen to have a large, stone-carved facade that lends it a well-defined rectangular shape. This frame serves to stabilize the rift, allowing it to stay open for extended periods.[5] On both ends of the connection, destruction of the Portal's frame has proven to render it impassable until it can be reopened by a being of suitable magical ability. The first portal When Medivh first opened the original Dark Portal, it consisted only of a magical rift. The stone frame was built by the first orcs who came through it from Draenor.[5] By the Second War, it was described as a fifty-foot tall portal encircled by a ring of towering obsidian stones.[8] The first portal's frame was set atop a small flight of steps and featured large, curved horns as well as carvings of curved runes and rather angry-looking skulls. It was destroyed at the conclusion of the Second War by archmage Khadgar of the Alliance of Lordaeron. The Last Guardian flashback cutscene in Warcraft III, the Opening of the Dark Portal dungeon in The Burning Crusade, and card artwork in the Trading Card Game depict the portal as having already had a stone framework around it when first opened by Medivh. However, as of the release of Chronicle Volume 2 and its account of the portal's creation, these depictions are canonically inaccurate. - As seen on the cover of The Last Guardian. - Warcraft RPG art of the Horde entering Azeroth during the First War. - The Dark Portal in the Black Morass as seen in Chronicle Volume 2. - As seen in the The Burning Crusade. - Alternate model, as seen during a flashback in Warcraft III. The undead faction's special "Demon Gate" building was used for the Dark Portal in this sequence. - As seen in Warcraft II. The second portal The Portal was later reconstructed when the orc chieftain Ner'zhul, in search of powerful enchanted artifacts with which to open yet more portals, reopened the rift from Draenor and sent his forces back to Azeroth. As had been done with the first portal, the Horde built a physical frame around the rift, creating a new Dark Portal that could remain open permanently without needing a constant influx of power.[25] This second version, flanked by carvings of large, hooded figures wielding swords and crowned with a stone serpent baring its fangs as if petrified mid-strike, is the one known to most modern adventurers; it stands to this day within the Blasted Lands of the Eastern Kingdoms. Though the second Portal's frame has changed little in the years since it appeared, the rift it contains has changed color multiple times. Both before and after the Destruction of Draenor during which Khadgar severed the connection between Azeroth and Draenor, the rift appeared blue. Many years later, its hue shifted to a green color when the Burning Legion restored this connection, suggesting fel influence. Finally, it took on a shade of crimson red when its connection to modern Outland was preempted by powerful magic that instead linked it to a past, alternate version of Draenor. - The Dark Portal by Brian Huang. - As seen in World of Warcraft (before patch 2.0.1). - Burning Crusade Classic key art. - As seen in Warlords of Draenor (after patch 6.0.2). Compared to the Stair of Destiny - Main article: Stair of Destiny It is interesting to note that as imposing as the Dark Portal is, it is significantly smaller and less ornate than its counterpart, the Stair of Destiny. It's unknown what the potential ramifications of this size discrepancy are, though it might be this way for gameplay reasons as the Azeroth portal was implemented in Vanilla and looks like how it did in Warcraft II, while the Outland one was implemented in The Burning Crusade. Both versions of the Stair of Destiny featured larger, more detailed versions of the hooded guardians that adorn Azeroth's Dark Portal, and replaced the upper image of a striking serpent with full, intricate carvings of a dragon's head and two claws. They were further embellished with all manner of runes and stonework on the front, side, and even rear faces, in contrast with the relative plainness of the Azeroth Portal. While Outland's version of the Stair is by no means pristine, with large chunks of stone and other features likely knocked off the structure during the cataclysmic events of Draenor's destruction, the alternate Draenor's newly constructed version of the Stair lies in ruins following the counterattack to the Iron Horde Incursion. Of all the various incarnations of the Dark Portal, whether in Azeroth, Draenor, or Outland, the only one to ever be seen under construction is the alternate Draenor's Stair of Destiny. - The Horde preparing for the first invasion of Azeroth as seen in Lore in Short. - In The Comic. - The Sons of Lothar invade Draenor as seen in Chronicle Volume 2. - Hellfire Peninsula in Chronicle Volume 3. The Stair of Destiny can be glimpsed far in the distance. - Destroyed in the background as seen in Lore in Short. - The Dark Portal as a warlock card in Hearthstone. - Through the Dark Portal TCG set art. Note that the portal appears red rather than blue or green in this image. Known discrepancies There are a few instances in which the appearances of the first and second Dark Portals were unintentionally switched: - In Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness, the second Dark Portal's models (both in-game and cinematic) were represented as visually identical to the first's. When the second Portal's design was later changed to its current version, these models became anachronisms. - In Warcraft: The Last Guardian, the cover art used is intended to depict the orc invasion of Azeroth via the first Dark Portal during the First War. Ironically, the cover actually features one of the first illustrations of the redesigned second Dark Portal instead. The same discrepancy is present in Lore in Short. - In Warcraft II: Remastered, the first and second Dark Portal's in-game models are visually combined. The structure is the same as the first, but instead of runes and skulls there are carved images of hooded figures holding swords. Other relevant portals - Kael'thas Sunstrider and Lady Vashj escaped with many blood elves from Dalaran through the Portal to Outland when Garithos betrayed them.[26] - The Sunhawks created a Sun Gate portal between Tempest Keep in Outland and Azuremyst Isle to help their efforts to retake Exodar. - When Rhonin commented on Jaina being such a powerful mage all alone out in Theramore, she mockingly promised not to open any Dark Portals.[27] - A Shimmering Portal (also called a Dark Portal) was found in Dustwallow Marsh to the Outland Arena. - In Warcraft: The Roleplaying Game, a few whisper that the Dark Portal that first brought the demons to Azeroth (during the War of the Ancients) yet remains and rests under the sea waiting for someone to reopen it.[28] This is a reference to a scrapped instance portal in development (explained below in the "notes and trivia - Development" section). Notes and trivia - Teron'gor was one of the Shadow Council warlocks who helped with the creation of the original Dark Portal, an experience which he used to reopen it after the Second War.[29] - During the Second War, starting from Blackrock Mountain, it took Turalyon's Alliance armies a week to reach the borders of the Swamp of Sorrows, then another week to reach the Black Morass, and then another few days to finally reach the Dark Portal.[30] However, it is noteworthy that they were fighting the now-retreating Horde, which likely slowed their progress. - Salandria and Dornaa wish to see the Dark Portal during Children's Week.[31] - The official website for Warcraft II: Battle.net Edition was called The Dark Portal.[32] - The gnome Tyrion "predicted" the Dark Portal's reopening.[33] - A world event that involved opening the Dark Portal was planned for the original World of Warcraft. The event would require a "group of very powerful Warlocks" to open the portal, giving players "access to never-before-seen locations."[34] This may have been how players would reach Outland, which was originally planned to ship with World of Warcraft. - The third opening of the Dark Portal was originally stated to be accomplished by Kazzak and his minions through an unidentified relic.[35][36] Development - The Warcraft: Orcs & Humans manual originally implied that the Dark Portal was making the land more sick[37] and swamp-like[38] instead of making it burnt and dead. - In Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal, an order of death knights loyal to the Laughing Skull clan were said to have secured the knowledge needed to rebuild the Dark Portal,[39] with the Portal later being reopened by their necromantic magic.[40] That story was eventually retconned to having the Portal reopened by the fel energies of the Skull of Gul'dan instead. - The portal was first depicted in Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness. When designing the portal in the game, according to Samwise Didier, it was "more or less smooth sailing." Depictions of the portal outside the games added more detail and character to the portal, such as the cover art of The Last Guardian.[41] - In the early development of World of Warcraft, an early model of the Dark Portal could be found in various locations, such as next to Teldrassil and somewhere underwater near Azshara (mentioned above in the "other relevant portals" section), before finally being added to its home in Blasted Lands.[42] It was actually because the Dark Portal model was used as a placeholder for instance portals. - A new version of the portal was designed for the Outland side for World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade. The Azeroth side of the portal frame had been designed to look like "something different," resulting in two humanoid statues at the portal's sides with swords, braziers under and above the statues, and a serpent infinity symbol. As the lore of Warcraft was developed, the portal was further refined. Peter Lee worked with the development team to make it feel more orcish in the expansion.[41] - The concept of the charred area around the Dark Portal in the Blasted Lands was pitched by Johnathan Staats and was inspired by an experience Staats had as a child visiting Sudbury in Canada. There, he saw rocks discolored black by acid rain damage, which he at the time mistook as being char from meteor impacts.[43] - The snake symbol on the Dark Portal is inspired by the real-life ouroboros symbol, depicting a snake or dragon eating its own tail as a representation of the cycle of life and death. Speculation This article or section includes speculation, observations or opinions possibly supported by lore or by Blizzard officials. It should not be taken as representing official lore. | Since lorewise the Dark Portal is no longer connected to the alternate Draenor during the Fourth War, and Varok Saurfang was last seen on Azeroth walking towards the Blasted Lands before appearing in Outland's Nagrand, it is likely that the Dark Portal links Outland and Azeroth once again. Gallery - Dark Portal wallpaper showing Karazhan on the other side. - The Dark Portal in the Trading Card Game. - Gul'dan and the Dark Portal in the TCG. - Kurdran Wildhammer in front of the Dark Portal in the TCG. - Dark Portal on the right of the Betrayal of the Guardian TCG key art. - Dark Portal on art for Warsong Rexxar from Hearthstone. - Fan art Patch changes - Patch 6.0.3 (2014-10-28): Portal to Draenor open. - Patch 6.0.2 (2014-10-14): Azeroth forces camps removed, Iron Horde invaders added, Dark Portal now glows red. - Patch 2.0.3 (2007-01-09): Portal to Outland open. - Patch 2.0.1 (2006-12-05): No longer an elite area, Azeroth forces camps added, Dark Portal now glows green. See also - Dimensional gateway - Dark Portal Opens - Travel guides for both Horde and Alliance to Outland. - [Dark Portal] - [Miniature Dark Portal] References - ^ The Great Portal (WC2 Human) - ^ The Story So Far (Warcraft III) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 115 - ^ Rise of the Horde, chapter 22 - ^ a b c d World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 116 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 117 - ^ Day of the Dragon, chapter 7 - ^ a b Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness manual, Places of Mystery, The Portal - ^ Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness manual, Clans of the Horde, The Black Tooth Grin Clan - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 174 - 175 - ^ Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal manual, The Aftermath of the Second War - ^ Slayer of the Shadowmoon (WC2 Orc) - ^ Beyond the Dark Portal, chapter 12 - ^ Beyond the Dark Portal, chapter 16 - ^ World of Warcraft: Illidan, chapter 22 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 151 - ^ The Dark Portal Opens: War Unleashed Upon Azeroth - ^ Nexus Point - ^ [10-30] Deadly Predators - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 157 - ^ Magistrix Seyla#Quotes - ^ Pearl of Pandaria - ^ Traveler: The Shining Blade, chapter 33 - ^ [40-80] Vision of Time - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 185 - ^ "Curse of the Blood Elves: The Crossing", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ Jaina Proudmoore: Tides of War, pg. 81 (ebook) - ^ Warcraft: The Roleplaying Game, pg. 187 - ^ Beyond the Dark Portal, chapter 1 - ^ Tides of Darkness, chapter 22 - ^ [10-80] A Trip to the Dark Portal - ^ Warcraft II Strategy. - ^ [31] Infiltrating the Castle - ^ Blizzard Insider Issue 20 - Mail Bag. Archived from the original on 2004-11-07. - ^ Game Guide/BC Raid Areas#Doom Lord Kazzak - ^ World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade Game Manual#Shadows Return - ^ Warcraft: Orcs & Humans manual, Chronicles of the War in Azeroth, 583 - ^ Warcraft: Orcs & Humans manual, The Destiny of the Orcish Hordes - ^ Slayer of the Shadowmoon (WC2 Orc) - ^ The Rift Awakened (WC2 Orc) - ^ a b Forging Worlds: Stories Behind the Art of Blizzard Entertainment, pg. 125 - ^ World of Warcraft Diary - ^ MMO-Champion 2018-09-24. John Staats Interview - The World of Warcraft Diary (29:35. YouTube. Retrieved on 2018-09-24. External links |


--- [Timeline - Warcraft Wiki - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft] ---
Timeline Jump to navigation Jump to search - For other timelines, see Timeline (disambiguation). This article compiles all the official timelines and sources published by Blizzard into a non-exhaustive timeline of recorded important events in the Warcraft universe. This should not be considered as an official timeline but should be as accurate as, and more complete than, any timeline that Blizzard has provided. Numbering in this timeline is based on the opening of the Dark Portal, as this is the method used by the official sources. All dates are considered to be spans of time from one to the next since many events are only given vague ordering and estimated dates. Warcraft products are displayed in italics. Mythos - Origins of the Great Dark Beyond - The universe is created from the clash of the Light and the Void.[1] - The First Ones create the six governing forces of reality, as well as their pantheons, and their realms.[2] - The First Ones create the Eternal Ones as the Pantheon of Death within Zereth Mortis.[3] - The titans awaken - The first titans are born from worldsouls and form the Pantheon of Order.[4] - The birth of the Old Gods - The Void lords create the Old Gods and send them across the universe to corrupt the nascent worldsouls.[5] - The rise of demons - The first demons arise in the Twisting Nether.[5] - Zovaal's betrayal - The Eternal Ones banish Zovaal to the Maw, and the Arbiter is created.[6] - Exile of the nathrezim - Sire Denathrius pretends to exile the nathrezim from Revendreth.[7] - Sargeras and the worldsoul - Sargeras slays a nascent worldsoul before leaving the Pantheon and creating the Burning Legion.[8] - History of Warcraft: [Sargeras and the Betrayal] - Lore in Short: The Burning Legion (animated short) begins» Primordial history - Unknown dates - Coming of the Old Gods - The Old Gods arrive on Azeroth and enslave the Elemental Lords.[9] - Wrath of the titan-forged - The titans find Azeroth and create the titan-forged to combat the Old Gods.[10] - The Ordering of Azeroth - Life is seeded on Azeroth by the titans and their Keepers.[11] - The ordering of Draenor - Aggramar discovers Draenor overgrown by the Evergrowth. A war between the Sporemounds and the titan-forged Grond leads to the destruction of them both.[12] - Age of Colossals - Breakers and Primals, descended from Grond and the Sporemounds, spread across Draenor as they war with each other.[13] - The gods of Arak - Three godlike creatures, Anzu, Rukhmar and Sethe, rise in Arak along with the arakkoa race. Sethe attempts to kill Rukhmar, but is defeated. With his dying breathe, he attempts to curse Arak, but Anzu takes the curse upon himself to save Arak.[14] - -150,000[15] - Earliest known date. The creation of the contents of Mosh'Ogg Bounty, determined through the use of a carbon-dating potion,[16] and believed to be of Old God origin.[17] - -100,000 (approx.)[18] - The K'areshi hear the Radiant Song sent by K'aresh's worldsoul as a warning.[19] - The Devouring War - Dimensius the All-Devouring discovers and invades the planet K'aresh.[20] - The Ravel destroys K'aresh in an attempt to kill Dimensius, however, the void lord is only scattered.[21] - The K'areshi disperse as the ethereals and brokers across the Great Dark Beyond and Shadowlands.[22] - The Ravel destroys K'aresh in an attempt to kill Dimensius, however, the void lord is only scattered.[21] - -25,000 (approx.) - -20,285 (approx.)[Notes 1] - Charge of the Dragonflights - Galakrond is defeated by proto-dragons, and the Keepers empower them into the first Dragon Aspects.[24][25] - Dawn of the Aspects (novel) (past)» - Legacies (animated short) (chapter 1 past)» - History of Warcraft: [Charge of the Dragonflights] - -20,275 (approx.) - The Aspects agree to take abandoned primal dragon eggs from the Dragonwilds and transform them into ordered dragons. Wyrmrest Temple begins construction, and Raszageth becomes empowered as the third Primal Incarnate.[26] - War of the Scaleborn (novel) begins» - -20,255 (approx.) - The Obsidian Citadel and the first great towers of Vakthros finish contruction.[26] - -20,055 (approx.) - Sargeras and the Betrayal - Sargeras and the Burning Legion defeat the Pantheon at Nihilam.[27] - Loken's betrayal - Yogg-Saron corrupts the Keeper, Loken, leading to the downfall of the other Keepers.[28] - Winterskorn War - A war between the Winterskorn vrykul and the titan-forged who were exiled from Ulduar by Loken.[29][26] - The Curse of Flesh starts to affect the Winterskorn vrykul, causing their metal skin to grow brittle, in their induced slumber over thousands of years they will eventually turn to flesh. - Tyr and Archaedas flee south to protect The Discs of Norgannon, leading to Tyr's death.[26][30] - The trolls begin creating early, primitive settlements in northern Kalimdor with larger cities in the south. Their range extends from the far south all the way to the Waking Shores in the Dragon Isles.[30] - -20,050 (approx.) - -20,000[Notes 1] - War of the Scaleborn begins» - The Primal Incarnates lead the Primalists rebellion against the Dragon Aspects, beginning with the Battle of Stormsunder where Raszageth assaults the Reach.[32] - Neltharion gives into the whispers of the Old Gods, using their power to imprison Raszageth within the Froststone Vault, and end her invasion. - The dracthyr are placed into stasis in the Forbidden Reach.[33] - Legacies (animated short) (chapter 3 past)«» - Vyranoth becomes the fourth Primal Incarnate after learning about the imprisonment of Raszageth, and that the Aspects stole primal dragon eggs.[34] - -19,975 (approx.) - Battle of Flamesfall - Using Alexstrasza as bait, Neltharion and Malygos lure Fyrakk into an ambush near the Obsidian Citadel. Malygos forces Fyrakk through a portal where Nozdormu and Ysera imprison him within the Vault of the Incarnates.[35] - -19,925 (approx.) - Battle of Emberfall - The Incarnates redirect their assaults toward Raszageth and Fyrakk's prisons. A brutal battle over the Froststone Vault is waged by the primalist Oxoria from the east and Mithruz from the west, but Neltharion is able to lead a charge against both to defend the prison in one of the bloodiest battles of the war.[36] - -19,875 (approx.) - Vyranoth challenges Alexstrasza to a duel, while Iridikron invades Valdrakken. Alexstrasza is able to defeat Vyranoth and imprison her within the Vault of the Incarnates, returning to Valdrakken in time to rout the remainder of Iridikron's invasion force.[37] - -19,775 (approx.)[Notes 1] - War of the Scaleborn ends« - The Aspects invade the primalist stronghold of Harrowsdeep, and Neltharion captures Irridikron by calling upon the Void.[38] - War of the Scaleborn (novel) ends« - -16,000[39] - Aqir and Troll War - The trolls establish themselves on the slopes of Zuldazar on primordial Kalimdor, later forming the Empire of Zul to combat the aqir.[39] - The loa Sethraliss defeats the C'Thrax Mythrax at the cost of her own life. Her sethrak followers Sulthis, Vorrik, and Korthek seal Mythrax away beneath Atul'Aman.[40] - The war ends with the defeat of the empire of Azj'Aqir, with the surviving aqir fleeing to form the colonies of Ahn'Qiraj, Azjol-Nerub and Manti'vess.[39] - The Amani establish the city of Zul'Aman atop the site where they have slain the C'Thrax Kith'ix.[39] - [The Twin Empires] - -15,000[41] - The Curse of Flesh affects the mogu, who break apart into warrior clans and begin fighting amongst themselves in the Age of a Hundred Kings. Meanwhile, several new races — the hozen, jinyu and pandaren — settle in the Vale of Eternal Blossoms. The mogu Lei Shen seizes power from Ra and founds the mogu empire, enslaving the other races in the region.[41] - Death From Above (short story) (approx.) - The Curse of Flesh affects the Dragonflayer vrykul, causing their offspring (whose descendants would later become known as humans) to be born stunted and weak.[42] Ymiron decides to place his people into a deep slumber trying to stave off the curse.[43] - Rise of the night elves - A tribe of dark trolls gradually migrate towards the heart of ancient Kalimdor and settle along the shores of the Well of Eternity. Over generations, the arcane energies emanating from the Well transform them into a new race of highly intelligent beings, who call themselves "kaldorei" ("Children of the Stars") or night elves.[44] - The kaldorei begin to actively study and practice arcane magic. They bend magic to their will and use it to build beautiful cities, craft artifacts and reshape the land. Some kaldorei resist the lure to use the Well of Eternity's power and warn others of the dangers of abusing it. Their warnings go unheeded. - A group of upper-class kaldorei begin to refer to themselves as the Highborne and revel in the use of magic. - -13,000 - Corruption of the eredar - Sargeras corrupts most of the eredar on Argus, convincing them to join his Burning Legion.[45] - Rise of the Horde (novel) (past)» - Lore in Short: The Burning Legion (animated short) ends« - With the help of the naaru, Velen escapes on the Genedar with other eredar that reject Sargeras' offer. The naaru name them the draenei, or "Exiled Ones". - -12,200 - The Scouring of Uldum - Lei Shen attempts to invade Uldum and seize the Forge of Origination for his empire, but is killed when Uldum's tol'vir guardians activate the Forge's destructive power. In the process, Uldum's lush jungles are scorched into a harsh desert. Lei Shen is followed by a succession of various mogu emperors.[46] - -12,000[47] - The Highborne city of Eldre'Thalas is founded in Feralas by the Shen'dralar.[48][49] - Pandaren Revolution - Kang incites a slave revolution against the mogu, successfully overthrowing them and leading to the founding of the Pandaren Empire.[47] - The Path of a Hundred Steps of the Veiled Stair is built, marking a path to travel to Kun-Lai Summit.[50] - Sometime between 12,200-12,000 years before the opening of the Dark Portal, the burly race known as the yaungol roamed central Kalimdor, living in peace with nature under the tutelage of the demigod Cenarius. They would later evolve and become tauren.[51] - -11,900[52] - Zandalari Troll Wars - The Zandalari trolls, allies of the now-overthrown mogu, attempt to conquer a plot of land in Pandaria promised to them by Lei Shen. The invasion is repelled thanks to Jiang and the newly-founded Order of the Cloud Serpent.[52] - -10,000[53] - History of Warcraft: [The Kaldorei and the Well of Eternity][54] - War of the Ancients[53] - War of the Ancients Trilogy (novel) (past)» - War of the Ancients - Sargeras senses the Highborne's use of the Well of Eternity and decides to invade Azeroth. Corrupting Queen Azshara and her followers, a portal is opened through which the Burning Legion enters the world and lays waste to the night-elven civilization. - History of Warcraft: [The War of the Ancients] - Emperor's Burdens - Emperor Shaohao, the last emperor of the Pandaren Empire, is told of the impending invasion by a jinyu waterspeaker. After purging himself of his emotional burdens, he becomes one with the land and isolates Pandaria behind a veil of thick mists, which protects it from the war and ensuing disasters but also keeps it hidden from the rest of the world for millennia. - The Burdens of Shaohao (animated shorts) - The Sundering - Several night elves led by Malfurion Stormrage are able to destroy the Well of Eternity, preventing Sargeras from entering the world, and stopping the Legion's invasion. However, this also creates a massive cataclysm known as the Sundering, where eighty percent of Kalimdor's landmass is plunged between the waves, leaving only a handful of isolated continents. - The Dragon Isles are sealed away from the world.[55] - History of Warcraft: The Sundering of the World - Warbringers: Azshara (animated short) - Legacies (animated short) (chapter 2 past begins)«» - [Empires' Fall] A New World - -10,000[56] - Mount Hyjal and Illidan's gift - The world tree Nordrassil is planted, and Illidan pours a vial of the Well of Eternity into the waters beneath it, leading to his imprisonment.[56] - The Lunar Festival is created, celebrating the Ancients who fell in the War of the Ancients.[57] - -9,400[58] - The burgeoning night elf society expands into the dense forests of Ashenvale. Tyrande Whisperwind positions the Sisterhood of Elune as the leaders of the night elf government and military. The Sentinels are created to protect their emergent society. Malfurion Stormrage begins to train other druids.[58] - -9,300[59] - War of the Satyr - An army of satyr and demons assault the night elves in Ashenvale, hoping to wipe them out.[59] - The Druids of the Pack create the first worgen, leading to the worgen curse and pack form being forbidden by the Cenarion Circle. Malfurion Stormrage banishes the feral worgen to the Emerald Dream.[60] - Curse of the Worgen (comic) (past)» - -7,300[61] - Exile of the High Elves - The Highborne are exiled from Kalimdor for the use of arcane magic, and sail east to the Eastern Kingdoms. Their skin begins to lose its violet hue.[62][61] - The long vigil - The night elf druids enter the Emerald Dream while Tyrande Whisperwind leads the night elves in a long period of peace, watching over the world.[63][64] - History of Warcraft: [The Sentinels and the Long Vigil] - The night elves raise a veil of mist around Kalimdor to shroud it from outsiders.[65][66] - -6,800[67] - The founding of Quel'Thalas - The Highborne settle along the northernmost edge of the Eastern Kingdoms, founding the Kingdom of Quel'Thalas. The Quel'Thalas Highborne begin to be called high elves.[68][67] - -6,000[69] - The Highborne elves of Shandaral in Northrend unleash a disastrous spell during their fight against the blue dragonflight, cursing Moonsong Forest and turning it into Crystalsong Forest.[69] - -4,500[70] - Without permission from the Cenarion Circle, Fandral Staghelm plants branches from Nordrassil in Duskwood, Hinterlands, Feralas, Crystalsong Forest, Ashenvale, and the last one in Grizzly Hills in order to stop saronite from spreading.[70] - The Grizzly Hills sapling quickly grows into Andrassil but is corrupted by Yogg-Saron. The druids are forced to fell the mighty tree, which is then renamed Vordrassil.[70] - The taunka and forest nymphs go to war, their violence influenced by the corrupted Andrassil.[70] - -4,000 (approx.) - Tyrande Whisperwind saves the frostsaber queen, Shy-Rotam, from the frostmaul giants. The frostsabers become allies of the night elves.[71] - The Curse of Flesh affects the mechagnomes of Uldaman, turning them into gnomes. They leave Uldaman for Dun Morogh, and forget their heritage.[72] - On Draenor, the arakkoa travel from Gorgrond to Arak. They create the Apexis civilization in their goddess Rukhmar's memory and begin to explore the world.[73] - The Barrow Deeps of Mount Hyjal are sealed shut.[74] - -2,800[75] - Humans in the northern lands of the Eastern Kingdoms unite and form the kingdom of Arathor.[75] - Troll Wars - The humans of Arathor lend their help to the high elves of Quel'Thalas, and together they defeat the Amani trolls. In return for their help, the elves start teaching arcane magic to humans.[76] - Blood of the Highborne (novella) (chapter 1)»[77][78] - History of Warcraft: [Arathor and the Troll Wars] - -2,700[79] - The kingdom of Arathor expands, founding settlements in Alterac, Tirisfal Glades, Gilneas, Kul Tiras, and Dalaran.[79] - -2,680[80] - The reckless use of magic by humans draws the attention of demons from the Burning Legion, and they start manifesting in Azeroth. Mages from Dalaran form the Council of Tirisfal to secretly fight and contain the demons, without alerting the general population.[80] - -2,610[81] - The Council of Tirisfal finds a way to empower a champion permanently with their powers, in order to fight threats that the Council can't handle by themselves. Thus the position of the Guardian of Tirisfal is created, with Alodi becoming the first Guardian. Each new Guardian takes the mantle for a hundred years, before passing their powers to an apprentice.[81] - -2,500[82] - The awakening of the dwarves - The dwarves awaken in Uldaman, migrating west and founding Khaz Modan. They establish the city of Ironforge and assist the nearby gnomes in founding Gnomeregan.[82][83] - A great hozen warlord is active in the area around what is now the Circle of Bone in the Jade Forest.[84] - -2,000[85] - On Draenor, Gnarlgar rallies the Primals against the Apexis and creates a new Sporemound known as Taala. The Apexis annihilate the Primal army with the Breath of Rukhmar, permanently destroying the Evergrowth and preventing it from ever returning again, leading to a golden age of mortal civilization on Draenor.[85] - -1,500[86] - Gurubashi Civil War - War breaks out between the Atal'ai Hakkari, followers of the loa Hakkar, and the rest of the Gurubashi. With help from the Zandalari, the Atal'ai fanatics are defeated and banished from Stranglethorn Vale.[86] - After living hidden in Eldre'Thalas since the Sundering, Tortheldrin and his followers killed most of their Shen'dralar elven kin in order to hoard the demon Immol'thar's power for themselves. Most of the city is abandoned, and other creatures start moving in. While many Shen'dralar escaped into remote regions of Kalimdor or went into hiding, those still within the dying city continued to feed and grew ever dependent on their fel addiction.[87] - Fracturing of Arathor - The human kingdoms of Lordaeron, Alterac, Gilneas, Dalaran, and Stromgarde are formed on continental Lordaeron, north of Khaz Modan. The kingdom of Stormwind (also known as Azeroth) is formed on continental Azeroth. The kingdom of Kul Tiras is formed off of the coast of Khaz Modan.[89] - The Apexis civilization is destroyed in a civil war. The Breath of Rukhmar explodes, shattering Arak's single spire into numerous smaller ones.[88] - -1,100[90] - The tauren inadvertently awaken the slumbering Princess Theradras, who drains the fertile lands of Mashan'she of energy, turning the region into a barren plain later called Desolace. Zaetar arrives to investigate but falls in love with Theradras, and from their union the Kalimdor centaur are born. After killing their father, the centaur proliferate across Desolace and begin hunting down the tauren, igniting a long and bloody war between the two races. Maraudon, the site of Zaetar's tomb, becomes treated as holy ground by the centaur.[90] - -1,000[91] - The founding of the Gorian Empire - The ogres are taught arcane magic by the arakkoa and rebel against their ogron masters under the leadership of Gorgog the Gronnslayer. The city of Goria is established, beginning the reign of the Gorian Empire.[91] - Malfurion Stormrage meets with Tyrande Whisperwind for the last time until the Third War.[92] - -975[93] - War of the Shifting Sands - C'Thun and the qiraji awaken and attack Kalimdor. Fandral Staghelm leads night elves and dragons against the qiraji, pushing them back to the desert of Silithus. They are successful in sealing them within Ahn'Qiraj, but Fandral's son Valstann is slain in battle.[94][93] - -823[95] - Aegwynn, Guardian of Tirisfal, battles and defeats an avatar of Sargeras in the Dragonblight. She buries the remains of the avatar in the Tomb of Sargeras in the sunken ruins of Suramar. Sargeras' spirit, however, hides itself inside Aegwynn.[95][Notes 2] - Cycle of Hatred (novel) (past) begins» - History of Warcraft: [Aegwynn and the Dragon Hunt] - The Anglers are founded and construct Anglers Wharf, Liu Lang then attempts to find a boat here in order to explore beyond Pandaria.[98] - Liu Lang defies Pandaria's belief that the rest of the world had been destroyed in the Sundering, and travels through the mists on the turtle Shen-zin Su. He returns every five years to bring more people along with him. Shen-zin Su grows large enough to become the Wandering Isle, with pandaren creating permanent settlements on his back.[96] - The orcs emerge from the subterranean caverns of Gorgrond and begin to spread across Draenor, forming various clans.[97] - Orcs from the Shadowmoon clan are taught the ways of shamanism by the elements and construct a temple at a site they name the Throne of the Elements. The biannual Kosh'harg festival is established.[97] - -700 (approx.) - The Waygate between Sholazar Basin and Un'Goro Crater is activated for the last time until the war against the Lich King.[99] - Aegwynn decides to stay as the Guardian of Tirisfal indefinitely, partly due to her concerns about the Council of Tirisfal meddling with the politics of different nations, and partly due to Sargeras' influence. She builds Karazhan as her secret abode, but after the Tirisgarde find her, she moves to the Guardian Sanctum in sunken Suramar.[100] - Rise and fall of the Talon King - Pridelord Karash of the Bloodmane saberon declares war upon the high arakkoa but is defeated by the Talon King Terokk. Terokk establishes the city of Skyreach but is later betrayed by the Anhari priesthood, who wish to retain sole control over arakkoan society. Terokk and his daughter Lithic are thrown into the Sethekk Hollow to become Outcasts. Lithic dies in the fall, but Terokk and his followers are guided by Anzu to create the talonpriests and establish the city of Skettis. Terokk eventually becomes insane and is sealed in a realm of shadow by his followers.[101] - -500 (approx.) - The high elven Farstriders are officially formed.[102] - Queen Azshara imprisons the kraken Leviroth in the waters of the Riplash Ruins[103] and blesses the trident of Riplash's emperor Raj Naz'jan so it can slay the monster if it ever escapes.[104] - Sintharia attempts to bring down the Kirin Tor with a curse that left the wizards unable to use their magic, but her scheme is foiled in part by Korialstrasz. Sintharia, believed to be dead, forsakes her mate and children and takes on the guise of Lady Sinestra.[105] - -403[106] - Imperator Molok of the Gorian Empire sends an ogre army to claim the Throne of the Elements and the power of the elements by force. The dissonance between the ogres' reckless arcane magic and the lingering power of Grond's remains creates an explosion that blows apart the orcish temple, leaving behind only a few standing stones and throwing the elements into disarray across Draenor.[106] - -402[107] - At the Kosh'harg festival, the orcish clans band together to combat the ogres at the urging of Nelgarm.[107] - -400[108] - The orcs lay siege to the ogre capital Goria. Molok and his sorcerers create the red pox, which begins to spread among the orcs, but Nelgarm and his fellow shaman convince the elements to completely destroy Goria.[108] - The last gnome king,[109] King Mechagon, leads his followers in search of a mystical land of technology.[110] (approx.) - -300 (approx.) - Last reported case of a genesaur birth on Draenor prior to the creation of the Blooming Genesaur.[111] - A Shadowmoon clan chieftain bans the worship of the Void.[112] - -231 (approx.) - A group of tauren founded the order of the Earthen Ring to lead their people with wisdom and maintain the harmony between the elemental spirits.[113] - -230[114] - War of the Three Hammers - After the death of High King Modimus Anvilmar, the Bronzebeards, the Wildhammers and the Dark Irons start a war over control of Ironforge. The Bronzebeards eventually win; the Wildhammers relocate to Grim Batol, while the Dark Irons become enslaved by Ragnaros under the newly-created Blackrock Mountain.[114] - -200[115] - -195[118] - The draenei establish Shattrath City in the location where Goria once stood.[118] - Auchindoun and the Auchenai are established after it is discovered that the remains of the naaru D'ore are attracting the souls of deceased draenei.[118] - -180[119] - The Temple of Karabor is founded. The Shadowmoon orcs begin to worship the darkened naaru K'ara as a deity, calling it the "Dark Star", but quickly outlaw the practice after discovering that wielding the Dark Star's power causes insanity.[119] - The naaru K'ure begins attracting the souls of deceased orcs to the wreckage of the Genedar. Orcish shaman begin making pilgrimages to the site to commune with their ancestors, naming the crystal mountain "Oshu'gun".[120] - A group of orcish exiles dwelling below Nagrand begin tapping into the Void energies bleeding from K'ure. This allows them to use shadow magic but also turns their skin a sickly white, causing the exiles to begin calling themselves "the Pale".[120] - The goblins of Kezan, granted heightened intelligence by the kaja'mite ore, break free of their slavery under the Zandalari and establish various cartels.[121] - Imperator Hok'lon leads the Gorian Empire in an attempt to retake the ruins of Goria from the draenei. The attack is easily repelled by the draenei and Hok'lon is killed. The ogres flee after Velen appears on Shattrath's ramparts, wreathed in light, and tells them that they will be allowed to leave unharmed.[122] - -99[123] - The orc clans debate over how to respond to the draenei. The Bladewind clan begin raiding draenei caravans, but the attacks gradually cease when the draenei send Vindicators to guard the caravans.[123] - -91 (approx.) - Korialstrasz kills the Manta with an arrow covered in three drops of a black liquid from a vial.[124] - -75[125] - A small group of high elves leave Quel'Thalas and travel to Winterspring in search of the mysteries of Kel'Theril, but end up discovering shards of the shattered Crystal of Zin-Malor. The expedition leader, Archmage Maenius, is corrupted by the shards and drives the elves to madness.[126] - Gnoll War - King Barathen Wrynn of Stormwind defeats Garfang and his gnoll armies.[125] Doom of Draenor - For events taking place in the alternate Draenor timeline in Warlords of Draenor during this period, see the Warlords of Draenor section. - -45[127] - Aegwynn and Nielas Aran conceive and give birth to Medivh. Aegwynn hides the power of the Guardian of Tirisfal inside him, to be activated when he reaches maturity. Sargeras' spirit, which was hiding inside Aegwynn, possesses the infant.[127] - -31 - On the eve of his fourteenth birthday, Medivh's dormant powers awake and lash out, killing his father Nielas. Medivh lies dormant for many years after this, tended to by clerics at Northshire Abbey.[127] - -30 - Terenas Menethil II ascends to throne, becoming King of Lordaeron.[129] - -26 - Grommash Hellscream is born.[130] - -22 - Warcraft: Legends Volume 4: A Warrior Made--Part 1 (manga) (past)»[131] - -21[132] - Medivh awakens from his coma. The Gurubashi trolls begin launching raids on human settlements in retaliation for the humans pushing farther and farther south into Gurubashi territory. King Barathen dispatches soldiers to intercept raiding parties but forbids them from striking into Gurubashi lands.[132] - -19[133] - After a gruesome attack on three Westfall towns by the Gurubashi, Medivh and his two friends Anduin Lothar and Prince Llane Wrynn sneak into Stranglethorn to assassinate the Gurubashi leader, Jok'non. They succeed, but only after Medivh unleashes his full might as a Guardian.[133] - -18[134] - Gurubashi War - The Gurubashi rally under Jok'non's son, Zan'non, and march to war against Stormwind, launching an attack on Stormwind City itself. Barathen dies during the battle and Llane is forced to convince Medivh to unleash his full Guardian powers to repel the attack. Llane, Medivh, and Anduin are hailed as heroes by the kingdom.[134] - Medivh is confronted by his mother Aegwynn at Karazhan. She urges him to isolate himself from the world and leaves him with a caretaker, Moroes. The Council of Tirisfal discover Medivh and begin sending apprentices to study under him, but none lasted for longer than a day. Moroes notices Medivh's ever-darkening mood and convinces him to begin launching banquets and feasts to lift his spirits.[135] - -13[136] - Two young orcs, Orgrim Doomhammer and Durotan, are saved from an ogre by a group of draenei. The draenei invite them to the nearby settlement of Telmor, where Velen requests an audience with them before the two orcs are escorted back to the borders of Gorgrond.[136] - -12[137] - Talgath discovers the draenei civilization on Draenor. Kil'jaeden commands him to observe the inhabitants of the world for the time being.[137] - -11[138] - Talgath observes the customs of the various major orc clans.[138] - Lords of War (animated shorts) (past)» - Battle of Bladespire - The Frostwolf and Whiteclaw orc clans help the mok'nathal to overthrow their Bladespire ogre masters.[138] - Draka and Durotan become mates during the Kosh'harg festival.[131] - Harbinger of the legion - The orc Gul'dan is exiled from his clan and seeks out the Throne of the Elements, where the elements reject him. Kil'jaeden reaches out to him and grants him the power of fel magic in exchange for agreeing to help the Burning Legion manipulate the orcs against the draenei. Gul'dan accepts, becoming the first orcish warlock.[141] - Harbingers - Gul'dan (animated short) - Gul'dan inundates the Throne of the Elements with fel magic, throwing the elements into disarray across the world, and also uses his magic to create the worst outbreak of the red pox in orcish history. Many orcs contract the plague at the Kosh'harg festival. Under the leadership of the Frostwolf chieftain Garad, the plague bearers establish a village in Nagrand to quarantine the afflicted. The village is named Garadar in Garad's honor after he succumbs to the pox.[141] - Medivh continues to study demonic lore and Azerothian history and becomes convinced that the world is inherently flawed, too divided by petty rivalries to ever unite into a single force in case of a demonic invasion. He concludes that he needs an army to change things and begins venturing out into the cosmos, eventually discovering Draenor and the orcs.[140] - -8[142] - Gul'dan and Kil'jaeden manipulate the Ner'zhul and the orcs, wiping out the Bladewind clan and blaming it on the draenei. The orc clans gather to discuss the threat and create the Horde[143] - -7[144] - The genocide of the draenei begins - The orcs launch sporadic attacks against draenei hunting parties, and the draenei begin organizing and constructing new defenses.[145] - Gul'dan recruits Teron'gor and several other shaman and begin teaching them fel magic as Ner'zhul, questioning the war, journeys to Oshu'gun, discovering Kil'jaeden's manipulation. Gul'dan and his followers capture the broken Ner'zhul. - -6[146] - Gul'dan plans to unite the Horde to fight under one leader, a Warchief, and convinces Blackhand to take up this mantle.[147] - Gul'dan begins training shaman how to become warlocks and necrolytes. He then forms the Shadow Council from his most trusted warlocks, including Cho'gall and Garona, in secret to control Blackhand and the Horde.[147] - Zagrel, Chieftain of the Whiteclaw clan, is assassinated by Garona on behalf of Gul'dan for speaking out against the Horde.[147] - -5[148] - At Oshu'gun, the clan chieftains to unanimously vote for Blackhand as their warchief.[149] - Blackhand orders the construction of the Citadel in Tanaan Jungle as the Horde's capital, and organizes the various clans into specific roles within the Horde - Blackhand forms the Black Tooth Grin clan, as Cho'gall recruits the pale orcs to form the Twilight's Hammer clan. - Warlocks begin to magically age adolescent orcs, and the orcs' skin begins to turn a sickly green. - -4[150] - The draenei withdraw to Shattrath and Karabor to defend from the orcish onslaught. Meanwhile, the elemental spirits pool their power into the mighty Firelord, Cyrukh and confronts the orcish army on the slopes of a volcano. Gul'dan and his warlocks and drain Cyrukh's power, infusing it into the orcs.[151] - The orcs besiege Karabor, and use the power of the Dark Star to kill or drive insane many of the defenders and permanently darken Karabor, turning it into the Black Temple. Velen and the survivors manage to flee via the harbor.[151] - -3[152] - The orcs gather at a mountain near the Citadel and drink the blood of Mannoroth at Gul'dan's urging, empowering them but enslaving them to Mannoroth. The Frostwolves and Orgrim refuse to drink.[153] - The victims of the red pox quarantined in Garadar remain isolated from the fel corruption, and they become known as the Mag'har, "Uncorrupted". - The orcs lay siege to and destroy Shattrath, unleashing the red mist against the draenei. Velen leads many Shattrath civilians to a refuge in Telredor, while others retreat to Auchindoun. The Shadow Council assault the mausoleum and attempt to summon a powerful demon, accidentally summoning Murmur, whose arrival blasts Auchindoun apart and levels the surrounding forests. The warlocks bind Murmur within Auchindoun.[153] - -2[154] - More draenei survivors arrive at Telredor. The ones afflicted by the red mist mutate into Broken, and the populace of Telredor exile them into the wilds out of fear that the condition might spread. Some Broken continue to degrade into Lost Ones.[155] - Blackhand turns his attention on Draenor's other inhabitants.[155] - The Bleeding Hollow clan launch a campaign against the primals in Farahlon. - The Warsong and Twilight's Hammer clans topple Highmaul. - The Frostwolf, Whiteclaw, and Thunderlord clans are charged with hunting down the ogres, ogron, gronn and magnaron, though only the Thunderlords obey. - The Shattered Hand clan, with the help of the Arakkoa Outcasts, conquer the arakkoa capital of Skyreach. The Shattered Hand then slaughter high and cursed arakkoa alike, casting some of the former into Sethekk Hollow. These cursed high arakkoa rally under Grizzik, who leads his people to take refuge in Auchindoun. - Kil'jaeden ceases to communicate with Gul'dan on Sargeras' orders. The orcs begin to flounder on Draenor as the world slowly dies. The threat of starvation causes the orcs to hunt many of Draenor's native creatures to extinction and begin fighting amongst themselves.[155] - -1[156] - Warcraft: Legends Volume 2: Family Values (manga)[157] - Medivh appears to Gul'dan and the Shadow Council and tells them of Azeroth, as well as showing a vision of the Tomb of Sargeras to Gul'dan. The construction of the Dark Portal begins.[156] - Rise of the Horde (novel) ends«» Great Wars First War - 0 (Year 592 by the King's calendar)[158] - The Horde enter the Dark Portal and small skirmishes break out with the humans. Rumors spread of monsters in the swamp; most are dismissed as tales.[159] - Warcraft: Orcs & Humans begins»[160][161] - The Last Guardian (novel) begins» - History of Warcraft: [The Dark Portal and the Fall of Stormwind] begins - Lore in Short: The Dark Portal (animated short) begins» - Khadgar is taken in as the apprentice of the Guardian, Medivh, and befriends the half-orc Garona Halforcen who frequently visited the Guardian.[161] - The Frostwolves are banished from the Horde and begin sneaking north to find a new home.[162] - Blackhand orders the Horde push north and west, far into Stormwind's territories. Many villages and towns are destroyed.[163] - The Bleeding Hollow clan pushes into Stranglethorn Vale but are met with strong resistance from the Gurubashi tribe, and eventually retreat.[164] - To combat the Horde, the Northshire Clerics begin entering the battlefield, the humans' first view of a priest on the frontlines.[164] - The Old Gods begin contacting Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer clan. Cho'gall agrees to follow the Horde, but only for his own motives.[165] - The Frostwolves arrive in Alterac Valley, having almost entirely avoided Azeroth's other races thanks to the elements.[166] - Thrall is born, bearing green skin. - Shocked at his child's green skin, Durotan and Draka meet with Orgrim near Loch Modan and discuss this revelation. They go their separate ways and Orgrim sends guards with his friends for protection. The guards, loyal to Gul'dan, murder Durotan and Draka and leave Thrall for dead, but the infant is soon found by Aedelas Blackmoore. - Redridge falls to the Horde.[167] - The Shadow Council moves their operations to Blackrock Mountain.[168] - The Horde begins their first siege of Stormwind City. Anduin Lothar leads an assault on the Horde's flank, forcing the Horde to retreat.[169] - Garona is allowed entrance to Stormwind by the word of Khadgar, who warns King Llane about Medivh's fall to the Legion.[170] - Khadgar and Garona confront Medivh and a battle ensues. Sargeras' spirit, still inside Medivh, magically ages Khadgar well past his prime. Gul'dan sees the battle through Garona's eyes and connects with Medivh to try and learn the Tomb of Sargeras' location. Khadgar slays Medivh and Gul'dan is put into a coma. The death of Medivh causes a catastrophic explosion, scorching the land around Karazhan into Deadwind Pass and turning Brightwood into Duskwood. - Seeing the Shadow Council's weakness after Gul'dan's coma, Orgrim Doomhammer challenges Blackhand to a mak'gora. The duel ends with Orgrim crushing Blackhand's skull with Doomhammer, making Orgrim the new Warchief.[171] - The Horde besieges Stormwind for a second time.[172] - Garona and Khadgar return to Stormwind to inform King Llane of the Guardian's death. In the battle, Gul'dan's old commandments flared brightly in her head once more, and she unwillingly assassinates Llane. - The city falls to fire, and Lothar is forced to gather what refugees he can and flee north, burning the remaining ships so the Horde can't follow. - Warcraft: Orcs & Humans ends«[172] - The Last Guardian (novel) ends«» - History of Warcraft: [The Dark Portal and the Fall of Stormwind] ends - Cycle of Hatred (novel) (past) ends«» Second War - Orgrim interrogates Garona on the Shadow Council, and marches on Blackrock Spire, executing all the members he could find.[173] - Deathwing coaxes the Dragonmaw clan warlocks to find the Demon Soul. Alexstrasza senses this and comes to investigate.[175] - Lothar, leading Stormwind's refugees, arrives in Lordaeron, summoning the Seven Kingdoms. In response to Lothar's urging, they form the Council of Seven Nations.[176] - Tides of Darkness (novel) begins» - Arthas: Rise of the Lich King (novel) begins» - The Horde gathers resources and plans their next conquest in pursuit of the refugees. Gul'dan awakens from his coma and immediately submits to Orgrim, offering his services to the new Warchief.[177] - Gul'dan creates the first death knights, infused with the souls of his slain Shadow Council.[178] - The Horde pushes north, conquering Khaz Modan and trapping the dwarves and gnomes within Ironforge and Gnomeregan.[179] - Orgrim builds the orcish fleet in present-day Menethil Harbor, planning to sail around the Thandol Span and into Hillsbrad.[180] - The Council of Seven Nations unanimously votes to form The Alliance of Lordaeron.[181] - The Order of the Silver Hand is founded and begins training the first paladins. - The Dragonmaw clan bind Alexstrasza in Grim Batol with the Demon Soul, forcing the red dragonflight to the Horde's will.[182] - Lothar calls upon an ancient pact, earning the assistance of the Quel'dorei in the war effort.[183] - The Horde sail north but are outmatched by the Kul Tiras fleet. Red dragons chase off the Alliance and the Horde make landfall.[184] - Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness begins»[186] - The Battle of Hillsbrad Foothills ensues, leaving much of the landscape in ruin.[186] - Horde forces move through the Hinterlands, suffering attacks from the Wildhammer clan of dwarves.[187] - Garona escapes capture from her handler, Eitrigg. - The Horde moves to Quel'Thalas and Gul'dan assists in dismantling the elven runestones, which he later utilizes to create two-headed ogres.[188] - With the assistance of the Horde, the Amani finally begin retaking parts of Eversong. The high elves are pushed back to the walls of Silvermoon, but fail to breach them. Orgrim realizes his resources should be pooled elsewhere and moves his forces southwest towards Alterac, leaving the Amani. Zul'jin would never forgive the Horde for this. - Realizing the might of the Horde, Aiden Perenolde strikes a deal with the orcs. They will be allowed passage through Alterac if they spare his city. Orgrim readily accepts and moves on to Capital City.[189] - The Horde begins their siege of Capital City but is met with a strong opposition. Gul'dan, having finally learned the location of the Tomb, abandons the Horde with the Twilight's Hammer and Stormreaver clans, causing the Horde's loss in the Second War.[190] - Gul'dan raises the Broken Shore and makes his way through the Tomb. Defying Kil'jaeden's plan of turning the Tomb into a portal for the Legion, however, the warlock attempts to take all its power for himself. He and his followers are torn apart by monstrous demons while the rest of his clan is defeated by the Dragonmaw. - Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer clan flee west to Kalimdor. - The Horde flees south but is quickly followed by the Alliance, the Kul Tiras fleet, and the Wildhammer clan.[191] - Khaz Modan is liberated and the dwarves and gnomes readily join the Alliance. - Siege of Blackrock Spire - the Alliance lays siege to Blackrock Mountain.[192] - Ashbringer (comic) (past)» - Orgrim slays Lothar in combat but is swiftly defeated by Turalyon and captured. - The Second War ends with victory for the Alliance of Lordaeron. - History of Warcraft: [Aftermath of the Second War] - Khadgar destroys the Dark Portal, but a rift connecting the two worlds remains.[193] Aftermath of the Second War - Warcraft: Legends Volume II: Warrior: Divided (manga) (past)[195] - The Horde Fractures[196] - History of Warcraft: [The Invasion of Draenor] begins» - Dal'rend and Maim Blackhand bolster Horde remnants at Blackrock, forming their "True Horde". - Most orcs flee into the wilderness, traveling in small packs or alone. - The Alliance begins the Orcish Internment for their prisoners of war. - Nethergarde Keep is established to keep watch over the rift that still exists in the Blasted Lands.[196] - Tides of Darkness (novel) ends« - Gallywix: Trade Secrets of a Trade Prince (short story) (past)»[198] - Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal begins»[160][197] - Beyond the Dark Portal (novel) begins - The Last Guardian (novel) (future)« - History of Warcraft: [Beyond the Dark Portal] begins - Ner'zhul reforms what little Horde is left on Draenor.[197] - In search of new worlds to conquer, Ner'zhul tasks Teron Gorefiend and the remaining death knights with acquiring artifacts of power; the Scepter of Sargeras, the Eye of Dalaran and the Book of Medivh. - Ner'zhul re-opens the Dark Portal with the Skull of Gul'dan.[199] - Teron Gorefiend and the death knights retrieve all three artifacts and return them to Ner'zhul.[200] - Deathwing pledges his flight to the Horde if they'll take a large number of his eggs with them back to Draenor. Gorefiend agrees. - The Warsong are tasked with preventing the Alliance from entering the portal, but are beaten back by Turalyon's forces, the Sons of Lothar.[201] - The Sons of Lothar invade Draenor, beating back the Horde to Hellfire Citadel. Ner'zhul flees south with the three artifacts to Karabor, now called the Black Temple.[202] - While searching for nesting areas, Deathwing and his flight come under assault from the gronn. The most ruthless, Gruul, becomes known as the Dragonkiller after nearly killing Deathwing himself.[203] - Ner'zhul uses the power from all three artifacts to call open innumerable dimensional gateways. The influx of power tears apart Draenor into what it is today: Outland.[204] - Many orcs flee Draenor to Azeroth and most are captured. Khadgar, still on Draenor, closes the Dark Portal from his side, trapping the Sons of Lothar on a dying world. [205] - Lore in Short: The Dark Portal (animated short) ends« - With the world falling apart around them, the Sons of Lothar jump into the volatile rifts to evade the cataclysmic energies destroying the world.[206] - Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal ends« - Beyond the Dark Portal (novel) ends - History of Warcraft: [Beyond the Dark Portal] ends - History of Warcraft: [The Invasion of Draenor] ends« - While Khadgar and the majority of the Sons of Lothar reappeared on Outland, Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner had been trapped in the Twisting Nether, where they were rescued by Xe'ra and the Army of the Light - A Thousand Years of War (audio drama) begins» - Ner'zhul, upon jumping through the rifts, is captured by Kil'jaeden and tormented and twisted into the Lich King[207] - The fragmented Horde on Azeroth goes into hiding or exile. Grommash Hellscream hid in the forests of Lordaeron, raiding local villages for food and supplies. Orgrim broke out of his internment, and went deep into exile only ever meeting with the Frostwolves.[208] The Rising Darkness - 10[209] - Unbroken (short story)[210] - Battle of Grim Batol - The red dragon in elven guise, Korialstrasz, with the aid of the human mage Rhonin, the high elf ranger Vereesa Windrunner, and the dwarf gryphon rider Falstad Wildhammer, attacked the orcish stronghold in Grim Batol, freeing Alexstrasza from captivity, and destroying the Demon Soul.[209] - Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer arrive in Kalimdor and establish a base in a cave system beneath Tanaris, seeking to join C'Thun in Ahn'Qiraj. Garona begins assassinating members of the cult, eventually forcing Cho'gall and his followers to flee the area.[211] - War of the Spider begins» - The Lich King wages war on the Nerubian Empire of Azjol-Nerub.[212][213] - History of Warcraft: [Lethargy of the Orcs][214] - Chieftain Gordok leads the Gordunni across the sea and settles in the ruins of Eldre'thalas, now called Dire Maul, turning into a gladiatorial arena.[215] - 15-18[Notes 3] - Kel'Thuzad, a skilled necromancer, heeds the voice of the Lich King and travels to Icecrown Citadel. He then creates the Cult of the Damned in service to the Lich King.[212] - Thrall breaks out of his internment, leading orcs to break their bonds and form a new Horde.[216] - Lord of the Clans (novel) - History of Warcraft: [The New Horde] - Of Blood and Honor (novella) - The Alliance splinters after the costly failure of their internment camps.[217] - History of Warcraft: The Alliance Splinters - The Kingdoms of Quel'Thalas, Stromgarde and Gilneas leave the Alliance of Lordaeron. - King Genn Greymane orders the construction of the Greymane Wall. - Kel'Thuzad and the Cult of the Damned begin infecting Andorhal's granaries with the plague.[218] - 18[219] - Aegwynn uses her power to summon Medivh's spirit on Azeroth. Free of the taint of Sargeras, the Last Guardian decides that he will be the catalyst to unity and decides to warn the other races of the upcoming return of the Burning Legion.[218] - Gelbin Mekkatorque is elected High Tinker of Gnomeregan.[220] Third War - 20 - War of the Spider ends«[212][213] - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Exodus of the Horde (chapters 1 and 2)[160][221] - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Thrall's Vision (cinematic) - Thrall receives visions from a mysterious figure who warns him of coming darkness and pleads him to travel to Kalimdor. Thrall then rallies the Horde and steals a fleet of human ships, sailing west. - Scourging of Lordaeron - The Plague of Undeath spreads across Lordaeron as the Scourge conquers the land. Prince Arthas Menethil is sent to investigate, chasing the source down to Stratholme, and beyond to Northrend, where he is twisted into becoming a death knight.[222] - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Scourge of Lordaeron - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: The Warning (cinematic) - History of Warcraft: [The Scourge of Lordaeron] - Lore in Short: Arthas Menethil (animated short) begins» - Culling of Stratholme - Arthas attacks Stratholme, killing innocent people in hopes of sparing them from turning into undead, eventually confronting the dreadlord Mal'Ganis who spread the plague. Mal'Ganis taunts Arthas into following him to Northrend before vanishing. - Arthas chases down Mal'Ganis, setting sail to Northrend with his troops. Here he discovers the runeblade Frostmourne, which claims his soul and turns him into a death knight. He then returns home, slaying his father, and bringing the rest of Lordaeron to ruin. - Death Knight (manga) begins» - Warcraft Legends: Volume V: A Cleansing Fire (manga) begins»[223] - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Arthas' Betrayal (cinematic) - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Scourge of Lordaeron - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Exodus of the Horde (chapters 3-5)[224] - Vol'jin: The Judgment (short story) - Gnomeregan is invaded by the troggs, Gelbin Mekkatorque decides that the gnomes have to fight alone to let their allies focus on the Scourge in Lordaeron.[225] - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Path of the Damned[226] - Battle of Darrowshire - The Scourge invade and overrun the paladin-protected town of Darrowshire. - King Arthas, at the beckoning of the Lich King, recovers the remains of Kel'Thuzad and marches north towards Quel'Thalas to raise the necromancer. - The gates of the Greymane Wall are closed to stop the undead. Arugal releases the worgen on Genn Greymane's orders to repel the Scourge.[227] - The Worgen Curse begins to spread in Gilneas. - Scourge invasion of Quel'Thalas - The Scourge, lead by Arthas, invade Quel'Thalas and lay ruin to Silvermoon. Using the energies of the Sunwell, Kel'Thuzad is resurrected into a lich, corrupting the Sunwell. - History of Warcraft: [Sunwell - The Fall of Quel'Thalas] - Warbringers: Sylvanas (animated short) (past)» - Blood of the Highborne (novella) (chapter 2)«» - Siege of Dalaran - Arthas and Kel'Thuzad lay siege to Dalaran to recover the Book of Medivh. Using this tome, they are able to summon Archimonde to Azeroth. - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: The Destruction of Dalaran (cinematic) - Kael'thas Sunstrider returns to Silvermoon, and renames the high elves to blood elves in honor of their fallen kin.[228] - Blood of the Highborne (novella) (chapter 3)«» - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: The Invasion of Kalimdor[229] - The Horde, led by Thrall, makes landfall on Kalimdor and begins to gather their people and search for a new home. They encounter the native tauren and their leader Cairne Bloodhoof, who join them on their journey. - After a brief skirmish with Jaina Proudmoore, Grommash Hellscream is sent to build an outpost in Ashenvale. Here he encounters the night elves and a fight quickly breaks out. In desperation, Grom and his clan drink the Blood of Mannoroth to defeat the night elves, slaying the demigod Cenarius. - Thrall and Jaina meet at the top of Stonetalon, and are convinced to join an alliance by Medivh. They quickly move to find and cure Grom from the blood-curse. When the bloodlust is lifted, Thrall and Grom confront and slay Mannoroth in what would become Demon Fall Canyon, but Grom soon succumbs to mortal injuries. - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: The Death of Hellscream (cinematic) - Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos: Eternity's End[230] - Illidan (novel) begins» - History of Warcraft: [Archimonde's Return and the Flight to Kalimdor] - Archimonde makes his way to Kalimdor, and starts his invasion. Tyrande Whisperwind, in preparation for the invasion, awaken the sleeping druids, including Malfurion Stormrage, and releases the demon hunter Illidan Stormrage to help combat the demons. - 21[231] - Battle of Mount Hyjal - The night elves, along with the orcs lead by Thrall and the humans lead by Jaina, mount a defense at the top of Mount Hyjal against Archimonde. Using an army of wisps, the defenders managed to slay Archimonde.[231] Rise of the Lich King - 22 - Marvon Rivetseeker excavates the Broken Pillar in Tanaris.[232] - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: Terror of the Tides[233][234] - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: The Awakening (cinematic) - At the behest of Kil'jaeden, Illidan performs a ritual in an attempt to destroy the Frozen Throne, but the ritual disturbs the earth, threatening to tear Azeroth apart. Maiev Shadowsong, along with Malfurion and Tyrande, and even aid from Kael'thas Sunstrider and the blood elves, confront Illidan and stop his ritual. Illidan then flees to Outland hoping to evade Kil'jaeden's wrath. - History of Warcraft: [The Betrayer Ascendant] - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: Curse of the Blood Elves[235] - Kael'thas and the blood elves are captured and imprisoned beneath Dalaran by Garithos. Lady Vashj, under the guidance of Illidan, frees Kael'thas and recruits him, offering a solution to his people's magic addiction. Kael'thas follows Vashj into Outland, teaming up with Illidan and Akama to take the Black Temple as a stronghold. Here they are contacted once again by Kil'jaeden, giving Illidan and his cohorts another chance to destroy the Lich King. - History of Warcraft: [Rise of the Blood Elves] - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: Legacy of the Damned[236] - Plaguelands civil war - The banshee Sylvanas Windrunner stages a revolt against Arthas and the scourge, freeing themselves from the Lich King's domination and creating the Forsaken. - History of Warcraft: [Civil War in the Plaguelands] - The Order of the Silver Hand fractures into the Scarlet Crusade and the Argent Dawn. - Ashbringer (comic) begins«» - Ascension of the Lich King - The Lich King, threatened by Illidan's magical attacks, is being weakened and summons Arthas to Icecrown Citadel to defend him. Arthas and Illidan duel, with Arthas being victorious. Arthas ascends Icecrown Citadel and merges with the Lich King Ner'zhul, becoming the next incarnation of the Lich King. - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: A Long Time Coming (cinematic) - Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: The Ascension (cinematic) - History of Warcraft: [The Lich King Triumphant] - Lore in Short: Arthas Menethil (animated short) ends« - Plaguelands civil war - The banshee Sylvanas Windrunner stages a revolt against Arthas and the scourge, freeing themselves from the Lich King's domination and creating the Forsaken. - 23 - The red dragon Korialstrasz takes the remnant of the Sunwell's energies, creating an avatar in the form of Anveena Teague. Dar'Khan Drathir attempts to use her power to make himself a god, but is destroyed in the process. Anveena then remains at the Sunwell, under the protection of Lor'themar Theron[160][237] - The Sunwell Trilogy (manga) - Warcraft: Legends: Trag saga (manga) begins»[238] - In Feralas, Cho'gall lures Garona into the open and magically enslaves her, turning her into his servant. The remaining Twilight's Hammer continue into Silithus to join C'Thun.[239] - The World Tree Teldrassil is planted off the shore of Darkshore.[240] - First Brewfest, organized as a beer-tasting contest between Chen Stormstout, Grimbooze Thunderbrew and Coren Direbrew.[241] - Invasion of Durotar - The orcs make a permanent settlement in Durotar, naming their new capital Orgrimmar after Ogrim Doomhammer. The Kul'Tiran navy, led by Admiral Daelin Proudmoore landed on the shores of Durotar and attacked the Horde settlements here. Rexxar, Rokhan, and Chen Stormstout team together to help defeat Admiral Proudmoore. Jaina and Thrall come to a peace agreement, allowing the two factions to live in peace.[242] - The Forsaken join the Horde.[243] - 24 - The Great Lakeshire Drought and the Great Ironforge Flood result from a portal opening within the lake to Ironforge without a liquid filter.[244] - Cycle of Hatred (novel) (present)«[160] - Warcraft Legends: Volume V: A Cleansing Fire (manga) ends«[245] World of Warcraft - 25[246] - Gnomeregan is lost after Sicco Thermaplugg convinces Gelbin Mekkatorque to release lethal radiation in the city, irradiating not only the invading troggs but most of the gnomes as well. Mekkatorque and the gnomes are granted refuge in Ironforge by the dwarves, establishing Tinker Town.[246] - King Varian Wrynn is kidnapped. Bolvar Fordragon becomes Regent-Lord of Stormwind.[247] - World of Warcraft: Book One (comic) begins» - The Lich King reawakens after Arthas' will overpower Ner'zhul's will, and he begins watching the mortal races and their efforts against the Old Gods and the Burning Legion, creating a plan for invasion based around their responses.[248] - Arthas: Rise of the Lich King (novel) ends« Patch 1.1.0 World of Warcraft - World of Warcraft campaign[160] - The Old Gods spread their influence to cause chaos across Azeroth, but all across the world, adventurers rise up to face these threats.[247] - Seasons of War (cinematic) - Ragefire Chasm (dungeon) - The Searing Blade cultists, a group of warlocks and demons from the Shadow Council, attempt to topple Orgrimmar from the inside. Thrall sends adventurers to infiltrate the cult[249], and later to slay their leaders.[250] - Deadmines (dungeon) - Gryan Stoutmantle sends a group of Alliance soldiers into the deadmines to take out the Defias Brotherhood, lead by Edwin VanCleef. They killed VanCleef and took his head as proof of the deed.[251][252] - Shadowfang Keep (dungeon) - Banshee Queen Sylvanas Windrunner dispatches adventurers to kill Archmage Arugal, who is responsible for the outbreak of the worgen curse in Silverpine Forest.[253] - Stormwind Stockade (dungeon) - A prisoner revolt, led by Bazil Thredd takes control of the Stockade. Warden Thelwater manages to escape the holding area and enlists brave thrill-seekers to venture into the prison and squash the uprising.[254] - Blackfathom Deeps (dungeon) - The Twilight's Hammer takes up residence in the ruins and begins to sacrifice people to Aku'mai, a minion of the Old Gods. The Earthen Ring send heroes down into the depths to wipe out the cultists and their god.[255] - Gnomeregan (dungeon) - High Tinker Gelbin Mekkatorque enlists brave souls to help his people reclaim their beloved city, and put down Mekkatorque's once-trusted advisor, Mekgineer Thermaplugg.[256] - Razorfen Kraul (dungeon) - Charlga Razorflank stages attacks on rival tribes as well as Horde villages. Some speculate that Charlga has even been negotiating with agents of the Scourge, and adventurers are sent in to wipe out her army of Quillboars.[256][257] - Scarlet Monastery - Adventurers are sent into the Monastery to clear it of the Scarlet Crusade and kill High Inquisitor Whitemane.[256][258] - Scarlet Monastery Graveyard (dungeon) - Scarlet Monastery Library (dungeon) - Scarlet Monastery Armory (dungeon) - Scarlet Monastery Cathedral (dungeon) - Razorfen Downs (dungeon) - A lich, Amnennar the Coldbringer, takes control of the Quillboar capital and begins twisting them to the Lich King's will. Heroes are sent in to take out the lich and stop the Lich King's plans.[256][259] - Uldaman (dungeon) - The League of Explorers excavates the ancient titan facility, recovering several artifacts, and disabling the Keeper, Archaedas.[260][261] - Zul'Farrak (dungeon) - Adventurers are sent into the Farraki capital to recover a group of lost mercenaries and stop a dangerous demigod from rising.[256] - Scholomance (dungeon) - As the headquarters for the Scourge in the Western Plaguelands, adventurers are sent to take out its Scourge overseer, Ras Frostwhisper.[256][262] - Stratholme (dungeon) - Heroes infiltrate Stratholme to squash the Scarlet Crusade leadership[263], and the Scourge leader of the city, Baron Rivendare.[264] - Dagran Thaurissan, Emperor of the Dark Iron clan, is ordered to war against the other dwarves by Firelord Ragnaros. He kidnaps Princess Moira Bronzebeard of Ironforge and they soon fall in love and marry.[265] - Blackrock Depths (dungeon) - Magni Bronzebeard sends an elite team of Alliance heroes into the depths to kill Emperor Thaurissan and save his daughter. - Molten Core (raid) - Moira Thaurissan spreads rumors of Ragnaros' plans, hoping to entice the heroes into defeating him. The Hydraxian Waterlords respond by recruiting heroes from the Alliance and Horde to delve into the Molten Core and defeat Ragnaros.[266] Patch 1.2.0 Mysteries of Maraudon - The Horde investigates the increased aggression of the centaur, finding Warug of the Magram clan who informs them of the corruption seeping from the burial grounds of Maraudon.[215] Patch 1.3.0 Ruins of the Dire Maul - King Gordok of the Gordunni sends his people out to slaughter everyone they could find indiscriminately. The Horde move to stop him, but discovers the corruption is much deeper than just King Gordok.[215] - Dire Maul: Gordok Commons (dungeon) - The Horde confronts the Gordunni and kill King Gordok. - Dire Maul: Warpwood Quarter (dungeon) - The Emerald Nightmare spreads out from this region of the ruins, the heroes of the Horde stop the corruption from spreading and infecting the rest of Feralas. - Dire Maul: Capital Gardens (dungeon) - The Horde adventurers discover the Shen'dralar, a secretive sect of Highborne, were feeding off the power of an imprisoned demon, Immol'thar. The Horde banish the demon and kill the elves' leader, Prince Tortheldrin. Patch 1.4.0 The Call to War - Short John Mithril begins hosting nonlethal free-for-all arena matches for treasure and glory in the Gurubashi Arena, several times a day.[267][268] - Elemental Invasions - Elemental incursions begin happening throughout Silithus, Un'Goro Crater, Azshara, and Winterspring.[267][269] Patch 1.5.0 Battlegrounds - Warsong Gulch and Alterac Valley (battlegrounds) - Skirmishes between the Alliance and Horde in Warsong Gulch and Alterac Valley become frequent.[270] Patch 1.6.0 Assault on Blackwing Lair - The Darkmoon Faire gains traction and comes to Mulgore and Elwynn Forest.[271] - Moira Thaurissan spread rumors of Dal'rend Blackhand alliance with the black dragon Nefarian, hoping to entice the heroes into defeating them.[272] - Lower Blackrock Spire (dungeon) - The Horde champions move through Blackrock Spire, wiping out the Dark Horde's various legions. - Upper Blackrock Spire (dungeon) - The Horde continues through the Upper Spire, taking out the Dark Horde's leadership, including Rend himself. - Blackwing Lair (raid) - Nefarian turns his wrath towards the Horde champions who wiped out his forces, but the Horde faces his wrath head on and slays him. They take the Head of Nefarian back to Orgrimmar with them. Patch 1.7.0 Rise of the Blood God - Arathi Basin (battleground) - A skirmish between the League of Arathor and the Forsaken Defilers breaks out in Arathi Basin[273] - The Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza begins in Booty Bay, bringing in fishers from all across Azeroth for a fishing tournament.[273] - Atal'ai survivors from the Sunken Temple, make their way to Zul'Gurub and enchant the Gurubashi priests, and work to summon Hakkar the Soulflayer.[274] - Zul'Gurub (raid) - The Zandalar Tribe recruits the Darkspear tribe and their Horde to stop the Atal'ai leader, Jin'do, but were too late to stop Hakkar from entering the world. The Horde champions allowed themselves to be poisoned so when Hakkar drank of their blood, he succumbed to his own dark magic. Patch 1.8.0 Dragons of Nightmare - The Emerald Nightmare spreads from Teldrassil and Fandral Staghelm, struggling to hide it, allows the Cenarion Circle to begin investigating the Nightmare's influence across Kalimdor.[275] - Wailing Caverns (dungeon) - The circle sends Horde adventurers into the Wailing Caverns to explore the corruption within, and save the sleeping druid, Naralex, within. - Temple of Atal'Hakkar (dungeon) - The green dragon Itharius calls for the help of the Cenarion Circle to help cleanse the nightmare within effecting several green dragons sleeping within. The circle sends Alliance heroes into the Sunken Temple who put down the corrupted dragons, and even stop an unexpected cult of Atal'ai trolls from summoning Hakkar the Soulflayer. - Corrupted green dragons appear around the world from the Emerald Nightmare, and champions of the Horde and Alliance are forced to put them down to stop their rampages. - The Cenarion Circle begins exploring Silithus as the corruption spreads, discovering the Twilight's Hammer in the region.[276] Patch 1.9.0 The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj - Cho'gall and the Twilight's Hammer perform a great ritual, that breaks the Old God C'Thun's bonds, freeing it from its prison below Ahn'Qiraj. Cho'gall leaves to recruit more into the Twilight and free the other Old Gods from captivity, while C'Thun awakens and rallies the qiraji and silithid armies for war.[274] - Ahn'Qiraj War - The armies of C'Thun spread from their hives, and the Cenarion Circle calls for help. The Might of Kalimdor is formed assaults Ahn'Qiraj: The Fallen Kingdom to put an end to C'Thun.[277] - The Alliance and Horde begin staging their forward base and gather resources to fund the war effort. - The War Effort (short story) - The heroes reforge [The Scepter of the Shifting Sands] and open the Scarab Wall, marching into the Old God's Kingdom. - Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj (raid) - The Horde, led by Varok Saurfang, assaulted the growing army on the surface of Ahn'Qiraj. - Temple of Ahn'Qiraj (raid) - The Alliance storm into the temple, facing off against Old God's mightiest minions, and defeated C'Thun itself. - The Alliance and Horde begin staging their forward base and gather resources to fund the war effort. Patch 1.11.0 Shadow of the Necropolis - The Argent Dawn launch an attack on the necropolis of Naxxramas, with Darion Mograine being one of the few survivors after reclaiming the Ashbringer from his father. The Scourge launched a counter-attack on Light's Hope Chapel, which led to Darion making the ultimate sacrifice to save the Argent Dawn, but in turn handing himself and the Ashbringer into the hands of Kel'Thuzad.[278] - Ashbringer (comic) ends« - The first Scourge Invasion - The Lich King releases several necropoli across Azeroth, the invasion being directed from Naxxramas.[279] - Naxxramas (raid) - Bolvar Fordragon recruits the Alliance heroes to take out Naxxramas and its vile arch-lich overlord. - Nozdormu senses a force corrupting the timeways around the events of the War of the Ancients. He dispatches three heroes, Korialstrasz, Rhonin, and Broxigar, to ensure the events of the war play out correctly.[279] - War of the Ancients Trilogy (novel) (present)« Patch 1.12.0 Drums of War - Open violence between the Alliance and Horde begins in Silithus and the Eastern Plaguelands.[280] The Burning Crusade - Kil'jaeden sends Highlord Kruul to build the Burning Legion's forces on Outland to combat Illidan Stormrage's growing army.[281] - The naaru A'dal, M'uru, and O'ros take the dimensional fortress Tempest Keep to Outland to aid Velen and Khadgar in their fight against the Legion's amassing forces. A'dal transported itself to Shattrath City and called various forces, including the surviving Draenei and the Sons of Lothar, to Shattrath to unite against the Legion.[282] - An army of blood elves, led by Voren'thal marches on Shattrath at the order of Illidan, but upon receiving a vision from the naaru, Voren'thal and his army surrender and join the Naaru's gathering forces, naming themselves the Scryers. - The blood elves, led by Kael'thas Sunstrider, besiege and take control of Tempest Keep, learning to use its machinery to help feed their magic addiction.[283] - The naaru O'ros seals off one of the wings, the Exodar from the blood elves, locking itself inside. - The naaru M'uru is captured by Kael'thas and is sent back to Quel'Thalas, where its energies are bent to the will of Lady Liadrin. - The Blood Knights under Lady Liadrin are formed by Rommath. Quel'Thalas enters negotiations with the Horde.[283][284] - Blood of the Highborne (novella) (chapter 4)« - Regent Lord Lor'themar Theron decides to inform Kael'thas of Anveena Teague, but his messengers are stopped by Kil'jaeden. - The ethereals arrive on Outland, drawn by Kael'thas' manipulation of the energies in Netherstorm.[285] - The destruction of Nathreza - Akama allies himself with Maiev Shadowsong against Illidan, and Illidan lures them into a trap, killing Maiev's forces, using their souls to power a portal to Nathreza.[285] - Illidan and his Demon Hunters invade Nathreza and steal the Seal of Argus. - Illidan destabilizes the portal, causing it to collapse just as the dimensional portals that destroyed Outland did. This destroys Nathreza along with all the demons on it. - Velen leads a raid to liberate the Exodar and escape Outland. Blood elf saboteurs cause it to crash on Azeroth.[286][287] - Rise of the Horde (novel) (present)« - The blood elves, at the invitation of Sylvanas Windrunner, join the Horde.[288] Patch 2.0.3 The Burning Crusade - 26[289] - Invasion of Outland - The Dark Portal Opens under the command of Lord Kazzak and Highlord Kruul. Their forces are pushed back through the Dark Portal and defeated by the Argent Dawn and Alliance and Horde forces.[160][289] - The Dark Portal (cinematic) - Shadow Wing: The Dragons of Outland (manga) begins»[290] - The Burning Crusade campaign - The Alliance and Horde push through Outland, taking out Illidan's armies, the Illidari and the Fel Horde, as well as the Burning Legion forces.[291][289] - Hellfire Citadel - The Horde launch an assault against Illidan's forces in Hellfire Peninsula.[292] - Hellfire Ramparts (dungeon) - The Horde's heroes secure the Citadel's ramparts, preparing to move inside. - The Shattered Halls (dungeon) - Kargath Bladefist is confronted at the seat of his power, and is killed by the Horde's agents. - The Blood Furnace (dungeon) - The champions move into the Citadel, seeking to wipe out Kargath Bladefist's army of Fel Orcs, only to discover the source of their corruption: the demon Magtheridon. - Magtheridon's Lair (raid) - Magtheridon himself is confronted and slain, ending the Fel Orc corruption. - Thrall travels to Nagrand and Garadar where he meets his grandmother Geyah, and Garrosh Hellscream, son of Grommash Hellscream.[292] - Auchindoun - The former draenei burial ground has been overrun by several factions, and heroes are sent in to clear them out, and end whatever threats they may pose.[291][293][294] - Mana-Tombs (dungeon) - A faction of Ethereals led by Nexus-Prince Shaffar have set up a base here, pillaging whatever the tombs have to offer. The Consortium sends in adventurers to raid his base and slay the Nexus-Prince.[295][296] - Auchenai Crypts (dungeon) - Exarch Maladaar, who led the Auchenai here years ago, was driven mad by the death of his people and plans to resurrect a dark force within the crypts. Heroes are sent in to stop him from completing his dark rituals.[297][298] - Sethekk Halls (dungeon) - Talon King Ikiss was driven mad by an Old God and interpreted the explosion caused by Murmur's summoning to be a sign of his god, and settled in Auchindoun. The arakkoa send adventurers to these halls to take out the maddened self-proclaimed Talon King.[299][300] - Shadow Labyrinth (dungeon) - Murmur still resides in Auchindoun and adventurers are sent in to defeat this threat before it causes more destruction.[301] - Gruul's Lair (raid) - Gruul the Dragonkiller is seen as a god to the ogres of Blade's Edge Mountains, and under his command they attack the Horde and Alliance forces. Adventurers invade his lair and put an end to his attacks.[291][302][303] - Karazhan (raid) - Adventurers dive into the abandoned tower of Karazhan to investigate Burning Legion activity, and plunder its treasures.[291][304] - Coilfang Reservoir - The Alliance forces march on the naga's watery fortress, aiming to end their wanton destruction of Zangarmarsh's ecosystem. [305] - The Slave Pens (dungeon) - The heroes free the enslaved Broken as they carve their way through the reservoir. - The Underbog (dungeon) - The Alliance champions aid the forces of Sporeggar in their fight against the spore giants, taking out their presence within this deep cavern. - The Steamvault (dungeon) - The naga's foul machinery that is draining Zangarmarsh is disabled. - Serpentshrine Cavern (raid) - Lady Vashj is finally confronted in the depths of her stronghold, and taken out by the heroes of the Alliance. - Eye of the Storm (battleground) - The alliance and Horde begin skirmishing in Netherstorm, the center of their battles being a floating island far above the main landmass.[291] - Tempest Keep (raid) - After hearing the news of Kael'thas joining the forces of the Legion, the blood elves lead the Horde to war against the traitor prince.[306] - The Mechanar (dungeon) - The Horde invade the loyalist blood elves' factory and storehouse for raw magic. - The Botanica (dungeon) - Commander Sarannis, one of Kael'thas' lieutenants, is conducting experiments on wildlife in this wing, as the horde pushes through it, ending him and his experiments. - The Arcatraz (dungeon) - The heroes march into the Arcatraz prison and stop the blood elves from freeing the dangerous creatures within. - The Eye (raid) - The Horde army faces off against Kael'thas himself, seemingly ending his reign of corruption. - Hellfire Citadel - The Horde launch an assault against Illidan's forces in Hellfire Peninsula.[292] - The Caverns of Time open - Nozdormu awakens and sinister forces begin to threaten the timeways.[291][307][308] - Escape from Durnholde Keep (dungeon) - The infinite dragonflight attempt to prevent Thrall's escape from internment by kidnapping Taretha Foxton, preventing her from creating the distraction Thrall needed. Adventurers volunteer to go back and help create a distraction for Thrall themselves.[309] - Black Morass (dungeon) - The infinite dragonflight attempt to attack Medivh as he opens the Dark Portal, preventing him from starting the First War. Adventurers are sent by the Keepers of Time to defend Medivh, allowing the orcs to enter Azeroth.[310] - Battle for Mount Hyjal (raid) - The infinite dragonflight attempt to alter the events of the Battle of Mount Hyjal and adventurers are sent in to ensure the events play out as they originally did.[311] Patch 2.1.0 The Black Temple - Black Temple (raid) - The combined Alliance, Horde, and Shattrath forces form an army and march on Illidan's stronghold. With help from Maiev Shadowsong and Akama, the champions defeat Illidan.[306] - Demon hunter starting experience begins» - As the attack began, Illidan sent most of his demon hunters to Mardum, the Shattered Abyss, in order to retrieve the [Sargerite Keystone].[312] Upon their return, the demon hunters find that the Black Temple has fallen and are themselves captured and imprisoned by the Wardens.[313] - Illidan (novel) ends« - The Headless Horseman begins terrorizing villages across Azeroth. Brave heroes fight off his attacks and chase him down into the Scarlet Monastery Graveyard where they put an end to his madness.[314] Patch 2.3.0 The Gods of Zul'Aman - Zul'Aman (raid) - Zul'jin begins amassing his forces around the city of Zul'Aman, readying to invade Quel'Thalas. The Horde forces quickly respond with an elite team of champions who invade Zul'Aman, killing Zul'jin and his priests before they could begin their invasion.[315] Patch 2.4.0 Fury of the Sunwell - Battle for Quel'Danas - A resurrected Kael'thas and his felblood minions take M'uru to the Sunwell Plateau. Lady Liadrin and her Blood Knights join the Shattered Sun Offensive, along with the Aldor and Scryer factions.[316] - Battle for Sun's Reach - The Shattered Sun Offensive invades the Isle of Quel'Danas to retake it from Kael'thas' forces. - Magisters' Terrace (dungeon) - The Horde hunts down Kael'thas in the Magisters' Terrace, slaying him once and for all. - Sunwell Plateau (raid) - The Alliance march on the Sunwell, and with the aid of Anveena Teague are able to stop Kil'jaeden's summoning, banishing him back to the Twisting Nether. - Velen uses the remains of M'uru's heart to cleanse and reignite the Sunwell, making it into a found of both holy light and arcane magic. The Blood Knights forsake the use of the light by force, and begin to ask for its aid through the Sunwell. - Tyrygosa discovers the nether dragons in Outland and brings them to the Nexus in hopes of revitalizing them. Instead, the Nether Dragons, empowered by the energies, attempt to usurp the power from the blue dragonflight. Malygos appears and absorbs the magical energies that make up the Nether Dragons' being. This new energy reawakens the Aspect and restores his sanity.[317] - Shadow Wing: The Dragons of Outland (manga) ends« - Shadow Wing: Nexus Point (manga) - The Twilight's Hammer recruit Archbishop Benedictus to the cult and Cho'gall travels to Northrend to weaken Yogg-Saron's bindings in Ulduar.[318] - Onyxia's Lair (raid) - Varian Wrynn returns to Stormwind and reveals Lady Prestor as Onyxia with the help of Reginald Windsor, chasing her down into her lair, kidnapping Anduin Wrynn in the process. Varian and his allies enter the lair and slay her.[319] - World of Warcraft: Book One (comic) ends« - World of Warcraft: Book Two (comic) - King Varian, and Warchief Thrall met for peace summit at Theramore. Garona Halforcen, under the thrall of Cho'gall, attempted to assassinate King Wrynn at a peace summit. Though her assassination attempt failed, Varian saw her as a Horde spy, and the negotiations broke down. Jaina Proudmoore and Aegwynn took Garona prisoner at Theramore and interrogated her, finding that she was enchanted. Jaina, Agewynn, and Garona then worked together to fight Cho'gall's influence.[320] - World of Warcraft: Book Three (comic) begins» - Retaking of Andorhal - A small army, led by Maddox, attempts to retake the ruins of Andorhal, but they all fall to the Scourge.[321] - Warcraft Legends: Volume I: The Journey (manga) Wrath of the Lich King - The blue Dragon Aspect Malygos begins redirecting the ley lines of Azeroth to his lair, the Nexus, to prevent mortals from wielding arcane magic. Natural disasters increase in frequency as a result. Several Kirin Tor mages are sent to investigate and Malygos reveals his plan to them, offering the chance to join him. Malygos kills those who refuse to aid him, preventing them from reporting back. The first mage hunters are created.[322] Patch 3.0.2 Echoes of Doom - The second Scourge Invasion - The Lich King begins his campaign of conquest anew, sending the Scourge across Azeroth.[248] - O Thanagor (cinematic) - Zombie Infestation - Plagued grain appears at capital cities across Azeroth, causing an outbreak of ghouls and undead. - The Scarlet Crusade moves to Northrend in the wake of devastation, forming the Scarlet Onslaught. The Argent Crusade and Knights of the Ebon Blade are formed at the Battle for Light's Hope Chapel.[323] - The Lich King sends his death knights against the Scarlet Crusade of New Avalon, destroying the settlement.[324] - Battle for Light's Hope Chapel - They continue their march, targeting the Argent Dawn at Light's Hope Chapel, but are pushed back by a group of paladins led by Lord Maxwell Tyrosus and Tirion Fordring. On the verge of the death knight's defeat, the Lich King himself appears to take out the paladin leadership, forsaking the lives of his death knights in the process. The death knights, led by Darion Mograine, rebel against the Lich King, handing the Ashbringer to Tirion, who is able to push the Lich King back to Northrend.[324] - The Knights of the Ebon Blade, the Argent Dawn, and the Order of the Silver Hand come together to form the Argent Crusade. - Battle for the Ebon Hold - The Knights of the Ebon Blade march back to their base of operations, the Ebon Hold and capture it from the Scourge. - Lor'themar Theron: In the Shadow of the Sun (short story) Patch 3.0.3 Wrath of the Lich King - 27[325] - Wrath of the Lich King campaign (The war against the Lich King) - The Alliance and Horde forces land in Northrend, setting up fortifications in the Howling Fjord and Borean Tundra[325] - Death Knight (manga) ends« - Warcraft: Legends: Trag saga (manga) ends«[326] - Utgarde Keep (dungeon) - The Alliance[327] infiltrate Utgarde Keep, to destroy the Scourge leadership within Howling Fjord.[328] - Utgarde Pinnacle (dungeon) - The Alliance move upward in the Keep, confronting and slaying King Ymiron.[329] - Azjol-Nerub (dungeon) - The Horde[327][330] clear out the Scourge nerubians here, including their fallen King Anub'arak.[331] - Ahn'kahet: The Old Kingdom (dungeon) - The Horde continues downward into Ahn'kahet, aiding the living nerubians in reclaiming their home.[332] - Drak'Tharon Keep (dungeon) - The Drakkari prophet Tharon'ja has transformed into a massive skeletal serpent and commands the Scourge's forces in Zul'Drak from this fortress. Adventurers are sent in to stop the scourge's leadership here.[333][334] - Gundrak (dungeon) - The last remnants of the Drakkari leadership plan to sacrifice their loa in the halls of their capital. Adventurers are sent in to stop them.[335] - Culling of Stratholme (dungeon) - The bronze dragonflight sends heroes seven years into the past to prevent the infinite dragonflight from interfering with the Culling of Stratholme.[336] - Wintergrasp (PvP event) - Alliance and Horde battle for dominance at Wintergrasp, hoping to gain access to the secrets held within Wintergrasp Fortress' vault.[337] - The first watcher of the Vault of Archavon falls, Archavon the Stone Watcher.[338] - Strand of the Ancients (battleground) - The Alliance and Horde skirmish over a mysterious titan artifact.[338] - Naxxramas (raid) - The Alliance and Horde make a strike at Kel'thuzad's flying fortress, tearing the citadel apart from the inside.[339] - Nexus War - The Wyrmrest Accord, the Kirin Tor, and its allies begin full-scale assaults on the Blue dragonflight and Malygos at Coldarra.[340] - Mage (manga) - As the Nexus War rages, Kalecgos, Korialstrasz, and other heroes venture into Grim Batol to investigate a strange disturbance, and stop Sintharia's plans for twisting the Nether Dragons into Twilight Dragons. - Night of the Dragon (novel) - Violet Hold (dungeon) - The blue dragon Cyanigosa is sent to release the prisoners of the Kirin Tor, but was stopped and killed by the heroes of the Alliance and Horde.[341] - The Nexus (dungeon) - The Alliance and Horde, along with the other dragonflights assault the mad aspect Malygos' citadel.[342] - Oculus (dungeon) - At the peak of the Nexus, the Alliance and Horde stop Malygos' redirection of the lay lines. - Eye of Eternity (raid) - Brave heroes enter Malygos' domain and confront the aspect, hoping to convince him to stop his crusade. The aspect refuses, and Alexstrasza is forced to put him down with aid from the adventurers.[343] - The Obsidian Sanctum (raid) - As a nesting ground for Sintharia's Twilight Dragon experiments, Alexstrasza orders its destruction after the end of the Nexus War.[344] - Battle of Angrathar the Wrathgate - Bolvar Fordragon and Dranosh Saurfang lead their forces in a coordinated assault against Angrathar the Wrathgate. As the Lich King himself steps onto the battlefield, the forsaken appear, launching canisters of blight to kill both living and dead, hoping to kill the Lich King. The Lich King retreats into his citadel to escape the blight.[345] - Glory (short story) - Battle for the Undercity - Sylvanas Windrunner is summoned before Thrall to account for the actions of the Wrathgate, only to reveal that she escaped the Undercity which had been taken over by Varimathras and Grand Apothecary Putress. The Horde quickly assemble a force to retake the Undercity, and find the Alliance have also marched to take revenge on the traitorous undead. They retake the city, and Jaina Proudmoore teleports the Alliance away before further conflict between the two factions can break out.[346] - Li Li Stormstout, after having explored the limits of her home on the Wandering Isle sets out for adventure and exploration, following the trail of her uncle Chen Stormstout. She, and her begrudging protector Strongbo, encountered a naga witch and a fel orc blademaster. Chen appeared last minute to help save Li Li, but not quick enough to save Strongbo from taking a mortal wound.[347][348] - Li Li's Travel Journal (short story) (parts 1-4)» - Pearl of Pandaria (comic) Patch 3.1.0 Secrets of Ulduar - The Argent Tournament Grounds begin construction, preparing for a tournament to find the greatest heroes of the Horde and Alliance.[349] - The second of the Vault of Archavon's four watchers falls, Emalon the Storm Watcher.[349] - The Horde and Alliance leaders gather in the Violet Citadel upon word of Brann Bronzebeard's discovery of Ulduar's corruption. [350][351] - Garrosh Hellscream: Heart of War (short story) - Ulduar - The Alliance and Horde launch an assault against the Titan facility to uncover more of the conspiracy of Ulduar's corruption.[352] - Halls of Stone (dungeon) - The Alliance invade the Halls of Stone, discovering the Forge of Wills within. - Halls of Lightning (dungeon) - The Horde invade the Halls of Lightning, ending Keeper Loken. - The Alliance and Horde, pooling their knowledge realize that the death of Loken triggered a message to the constellar Algalon the Observer, that will lead to the re-origination of Azeroth, destroying all life. - Ulduar (raid) - The Alliance and Horde make a joint assault against the city of Ulduar, in an attempt to both end the Old God Yogg-Saron's corruption, and to prevent Algalon from re-originating Azeroth. - World of Warcraft: Book Four (comic) ends« - Cho'gall is defeated by Med'an, aided by the New Council of Tirisfal. - Archbishop Benedictus sends the priest Revil Kost to find an artifact stolen by the Dark Riders of Karazhan.[353] - World of Warcraft: Book Four (comic) ends« Patch 3.2.0 Call of the Crusade - Isle of Conquest (battleground) - Conflict between Alliance and Horde breaks out at the Isle of Conquest.[354] - The third watcher of the Vault of Archavon falls, Koralon the Flame Watcher.[354] - The Argent Tournament Grounds are completed. Highlords Tirion Fordring and Darion Mograine have the forces of Alliance, Horde, Argent Crusade, and Knights of the Ebon Blade compete to decide which champions will participate in the final assault on Icecrown Citadel.[355] - Trial of the Champion (dungeon) - The Alliance and Horde duel for the honor of assaulting Icecrown Citadel. The games are interrupted by the forces of the Lich King, testing the champions further.[342] - The Argent Crusade's champions are sent to aid the Sunreavers and Silver Covenant against the Kvaldir at Hrothgar's Landing.[354] - Trial of the Crusader/Trial of the Grand Crusader (raid) - The final tournament is held to test the strongest champions of the Horde and Alliance, preparing them for the final march on Arthas' citadel. At the end of the tournament, the floor collapses into The Icy Depths below the Crusaders' Coliseum, where they fight and kill the risen Anub'arak.[356] Patch 3.3.0 Fall of the Lich King - The Kalu'ak begin the Kalu'ak Fishing Derby, inviting fishers to come compete against each other's fishing skills for treasure.[357] - The Ashen Verdict makes its final assault on Icecrown Citadel and the Frozen Halls.[358] - Forge of Souls (dungeon) - Champions make their way into the side of the citadel, looking for a weakness in Arthas that they can exploit.[359] - Pit of Saron (dungeon) - The heroes make their way through the slave pits, freeing captured slaves and making their way into the citadel.[360] - Halls of Reflection (dungeon) - The adventurers make their way into Frostmourne's chambers, where they make contact with the spirit of Uther the Lightbringer held within the blade.[361] - Icecrown Citadel (instance) (raid) - The forces of the Ashen Verdict destroy the Lich King's mightiest servants. The Lich King Arthas is killed. Bolvar Fordragon is crowned the new Lich King. - Afterlives: Bastion (animated short) - The final watcher of the Vault of Archavon, Toravon the Ice Watcher, is destroyed.[362] - Ruby Sanctum (raid) - Enraged at the destruction of the Obsidian Sanctum, the black dragonflight launches an attack on the Ruby Sanctum, and the heroes of Azeroth are called to help purge the invaders.[363] - War Against the Nightmare - Malfurion Stormrage, slumbering within the Emerald Dream became captured by Xavius. Fandral Staghelm, working to advance the Emerald Nightmare worked to hide the corruption's spread, but Tyrande Whisperwind caught onto the traitor's actions and went into the nightmare to save Malfurion. Together they defeated Xavius and Fandral, locking Fandral away. The Aspects Alexstrasza and Ysera bless Teldrassil to protect it from the Nightmare's corruption.[364] - Warcraft Legends: Volume V: Nightmares (manga) - Stormrage (novel) - Operation: Gnomeregan - Gelbin Mekkatorque and his gnomes retake Gnomeregan's surface.[365] - Gelbin Mekkatorque: Cut Short (short story) - Zalazane's Fall - The Darkspear trolls and their allies retake Echo Isles from Zalazane.[366] - Revil Kost teams up with Karlain, Brink Spannercrank, and Althea Ebonlocke as they search for the Dark Riders, and investigate the mysterious Wolf Cult. They recover several artifacts, including the Scythe of Elune.[367] Cataclysm - Elemental Unrest - Deathwing aborbs great elemental powers within Deepholm, destabilizing the elemental realms. The elements lash out across Azeroth, causing mass destruction and chaos.[369] - Shaman (manga)« - The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm (novel) - Thrall makes Garrosh Hellscream warchief of the Horde, and leaves to commune with the Elements. - Magni Bronzebeard attempts a ritual to discover what the cause of the unrest is, but is turned into a diamond statue. Moira Thaurissan, daughter of Magni, marches on Ironforge with her Dark Iron clan and proclaims herself queen by birthright. A civil war breaks out Moira prevents anyone from entering or leaving the city, including the visiting Prince Anduin Wrynn. Seeing this as an act of war, King Varian Wrynn marches on the city. Anduin convinces his father to show mercy, and Varian forces the dwarves to work together, forming the Council of Three Hammers to rule Ironforge. - Alliance-Horde war begins» - Garrosh begins invading Alliance territory, and Cairne Bloodhoof challenges Garrosh to mak'gora. Magatha Grimtotem secretly poisons Garrosh's axe, which kills Cairne.[369] Patch 4.0.3a The Shattering - The Cataclysm - Deathwing returns to Azeroth, scarring it with a great cataclysm.[370] - Xaxas (cinematic) - Deathwing swiftly descends on Stormwind City, burning parts of it to the ground, and severely damaging other parts. Before the Alliance forces were able to rally and respond, Deathwing was gone. - The Blood Gate in Zuldazar is destroyed, prompting King Rastakhan to ban the usage of blood magic.[371][372] - Various leaders of Azeroth face inner turmoil in the aftermath of the Cataclysm. - Tyrande & Malfurion: Seeds of Faith (short story)[373] - The Council of Three Hammers: Fire and Iron (short story)[374] - Velen: Prophet's Lesson (short story)[375][376] - Varian Wrynn: Blood of Our Fathers (short story)[377] - Baine Bloodhoof: As Our Fathers Before Us (short story) (approx.) - Cataclysm campaign - Deathwing's wake of destruction, and Garrosh's war campaign leads to conflict across the world.[378] - Battles between the Horde and Alliance rage as Deathwing unleashes the Old Gods' minions to begin a reign of chaos and terror. - Bloodsworn (comic)[379] - Invasion of Gilneas - Sylvanas Windrunner, under the command of Warchief Garrosh, launches a brutal invasion of Gilneas.[380] - Genn Greymane: Lord of His Pack (short story) (past) ends» - The worgen curse begins to spread across Gilneas, and the Night Elves notice, sending their people to help the Gilneans deal with the curse. Using the Ritual of Balance, they are able to help the Gilnean Worgen to gain control of themselves in their cursed form. - Curse of the Worgen (comic) (present)« - Sylvanas assaults Gilneas City and is pushed back after killing Prince Liam Greymane. Sylvanas then unleashes the blight upon Gilneas, making it uninhabitable. - The Gilneans, with help from the Night Elves, flee the ruins of Gilneas.[381] - Pyrewood Village and Ambermill fall amidst the fighting.[382][383] - Lord Godfrey assassinates Lady Sylvanas Windrunner upon her declaring victory over Gilneas. Her Val'kyr resurrect her after Godfrey and his allies retreat to Shadowfang Keep.[384] - Sylvanas Windrunner: Edge of Night (short story) - Shadowfang Keep (dungeon) - Heroes of the Horde are sent into Shadowfang Keep to avenge Sylvanas, and kill Lord Godfrey.[385] - Gilneas is left in ruins. - Battle for Gilneas (battleground) - The Horde and Alliance continue to fight over the ruins. - Kezan is destroyed by the Cataclysm and the Bilgewater Cartel, fleeing the ruins, joins the Horde.[386] - Bilgewater Harbor is created from a "city-in-a-box" in Azshara.[387] - Gallywix: Trade Secrets of a Trade Prince (short story) (present)« - The Gilneans take refuge amongst the Alliance who welcome them into their ranks.[381] - Genn Greymane: Lord of His Pack (short story) (present)« - King Varian Wrynn, after going on a hunting excursion with King Genn Greymane, goes through the Ritual of Balance to help him have inner peace with himself. King Varian then gladly welcomes Greymane and his people into the Alliance. - Wolfheart (novel) - Deadmines (dungeon) - The Defias Brotherhood is reborn under Vanessa VanCleef after years of inactivity,[388][389] and heroes of the Alliance are sent in to take them out.[390] - Stormwind Stockade (dungeon) - Quakes from the Cataclysm lead to elementals, led by Lord Overheat to break through from below the surface, killing half of the inmates. Meanwhile, another revolt led by Randolph Moloch and recently imprisoned Hogger breaks out. Adventurers are sent in to regain control of the Stockade.[391][392] - Temple of Atal'Hakkar (dungeon) - The Atal'ai priests return to the Sunken Temple, attempting to summon Hakkar once again. Lord Itharius of the Green Dragonflight recruits heroes to help stop the troll cultists.[393] - Battle for Andorhal - The Horde, Alliance, and Scourge clash over the ruins of Andorhal to claim the ruins. The Horde claims victory for the Forsaken, but their general Koltira Deathweaver is punished for weakness shown in his truce with the Alliance.[394][395] - Stratholme (dungeon) - Balnazzar and the son of Baron Rivendare, Aurius Rivendare, each take control of sections of the city, overrunning it with their respective undead servants. The Argent Crusade recruits heroes to help retake the city.[396][397] - Tol Barad (PvP event) - Conflict between the Alliance and Horde breaks out for control of the prison island.[398] - Argaloth, a prisoner in Baradin Hold breaks out amidst the chaos, but is defeated. - N'Zoth rallies its elemental servants to wreak havoc in Uldum, Vashj'ir, and Deepholm, hoping Azeroth's forces would be too spread thin to deal with all of his assaults.[378] - Uldum quests - Al'akir breaks down the shielding around Uldum and the Forge of Origination, hoping to harness its powers. - Lost City of the Tol'vir (dungeon) - The Neferset tribe ally with Deathwing and Al'akir, and heroes are sent in to stop their threat.[399][400] - Halls of Origination (dungeon) - Al'akir attempts to retrieve the reorigination device within the Halls of Origination, and Brann Bronzebeard with the help of brave heroes, stop the Windlord's minions and prevent the reorigination of Azeroth.[399][401] - Vortex Pinnacle (dungeon) - After a violent attack on Orsis by Al'akir's armies, adventurers are sent in to help rescue a Tol'vir captive and take vengeance for the fallen city.[402][403] - Throne of the Four Winds (raid) - Adventurers enter Skywall and permanently slay Al'akir, ending his assault on Uldum.[378] - Vashj'ir quests - Queen Azshara and Ozumat assaults Neptulon's forces in Vashj'ir for his defiance of N'Zoth. Alliance and Horde forces rally under the Earthen Ring to stop their assault and save Neptulon.[378] - Throne of the Tides (dungeon) - Adventurers delve into Neptulon's lair to stop Azshara's servant, Lady Naz'jar.[404] Ozumat returns and captures Neptulon, fleeing to parts unknown.[405] - Deepholm quests - The Earthen Ring track the Twilight's Hammer to Deepholm and recruit heroes to help destroy their presence there.[378] - The Stonecore (dungeon) - The champions invade the Twilight stronghold in the Stonecore.[406] - Uldum quests - Al'akir breaks down the shielding around Uldum and the Forge of Origination, hoping to harness its powers. - Mount Hyjal quests - Twilight's Hammer agents ally with Ragnaros the Firelord at Mount Hyjal and attempt to burn down Nordrassil.[407] - The Wild Gods return to Azeroth from the Emerald Dream and defend Hyjal from Ragnaros' elemental armies. - Twilight Highlands quests - The Alliance and Horde forces invade the Twilight's Hammer strongholds in the Twilight Highlands.[408] - The Wildhammer Clan rejoins the Alliance and the Dragonmaw Clan rejoins the Horde. - Twin Peaks (battleground) - The Alliance and Horde, with their new allies, skirmish in the Highlands.[398] - Grim Batol (dungeon) - Heroes recruited by the red dragonflight delve into Grim Batol to put an end to the Old Gods' minions within.[409] - Bastion of Twilight (raid) - Champions raid the Bastion, putting an end to the Twilight Hammer's leader, Cho'gall, as well as Sinestra and her twilight brood.[408][410] - The forces of Azeroth launch an attack on Blackrock Mountain to stop the creation of the Twilight Dragons and Nefarian's other experiments.[408][410] - Blackrock Caverns (dungeon) - After discovering elementals being exported from Mount Hyjal, adventurers are sent into the cavern to discover and stop the Twilight's Hammer's plans.[411] - Blackwing Descent (raid) - The resurrected Nefarian and Onyxia are slain, stopping Nefarian's experiments.[412] - Battles between the Horde and Alliance rage as Deathwing unleashes the Old Gods' minions to begin a reign of chaos and terror. - Traveler (novel) (approx.)[413] - Traveler: The Spiral Path (novel) (approx.) - Traveler: The Shining Blade (novel) (approx.) Patch 4.1.0 Rise of the Zandalari - The Gurubashi and Amani trolls unite under the Zandalari prophet Zul. The Darkspear tribe refuses to join, and recruits heroes from the Horde and Alliance to help combat this rising threat.[414] - While Alexstrasza, Ysera, and the remaining leaders of the blue dragonflight gather at Wyrmrest Temple, Deathwing attacks them to create a diversion. Meanwhile, the Twilight cultists make their way into the dragonflight's sanctums and begin corrupting their eggs. Korialstrasz stops them, destroying himself and the eggs in the process. Ysera sees a vision of the future and sends Thrall to aid her and find Nozdormu, bringing him back from a temporal prison. Thrall then travels to the Nexus, where he aids the blue dragonflight in selecting their next leader as Kalecgos.[417] - The Embrace occurs, and Kalecgos becomes a Dragon Aspect. - Thrall: Twilight of the Aspects (novel) Patch 4.2.0 Rage of the Firelands - Elemental Bonds - Thrall is assaulted by the Twilight's Hammer, and struggles with his inner turmoil made manifest in the elements. Heroes arrive to assist him in gaining control of himself and the elements again.[418][419] - Firelands Invasion - Ragnaros and his minions try to set Nordrassil to flame. Fighting breaks out within the Firelands itself.[420] - The area of Mount Hyjal that was scorched in the second battle of Mount Hyjal is extinguished of flame and the forest begins to regrow. Agents from the Firelands bypass or destroy the wards and reinvade the area. - Firelands (raid) - Sulfuron Keep is besieged. The leader of the Druids of the Flame, Fandral Staghelm, is killed before Ragnaros the Firelord is finally confronted and permanently slain.[412] - Wrathion, with the help of a rogue champion, kills all the other black dragons he knows of.[421] - Occu'thar, a prisoner in Baradin Hold breaks out amidst the chaos, but is defeated.[418] Patch 4.3.0 The Hour of Twilight - 29[422] - The Darkmoon Faire opens up Darkmoon Island with new attractions, carnival games, and mysteries.[423] - Charge of the Aspects (short story)[424] - Nozdormu sends heroes through the timeways to regain control of them from the infinite dragonflight and obtain the Dragon Soul.[424] - End Time (dungeon) - Nozdormu recruits adventurers to help him stop his future self Murozond, in order to break the infinite dragonflight's control of the timeways. - Well of Eternity (dungeon) - Agents of the Alliance and Horde are sent back over 10,000 years to retrieve the Dragon Soul from the War of the Ancients. - The final assault on Deathwing and the Twilight's Hammer begins.[425] - Hour of Twilight (dungeon) - The defenders of Azeroth siege Wyrmrest Temple, retaking it from the Twilight's Hammer. Archbishop Benedictus is revealed to be the "Twilight Father" and is killed. - Dragon Soul (raid) - Deathwing is destroyed by Thrall and the Dragon Aspects at the Maelstrom using the Dragon Soul. A second cataclysm is averted. The Aspects are reduced to a mortal state and the "Age of Mortals" begins.[426] - Alizabal, a prisoner in Baradin Hold breaks out amidst the chaos, but is defeated.[423] Mists of Pandaria Patch 5.0.4 Mists of Pandaria - Ragefire Chasm (dungeon) - Dark shaman take up residence in Ragefire Chasm, and adventurers are sent in to kill them.[429] - Scarlet Monastery - The Scarlet Crusade reclaims their monastery and Lilian Voss, disguised as the Hooded Crusader recruits adventurers in helping wipe out the crusaders.[430][431] - Scarlet Halls (dungeon) - Scarlet Monastery (dungeon) - Scholomance (dungeon) - Darkmaster Gandling continues his operations in the school of necromancy, and adventurers delve into the school to save Lilian Voss, and eliminate the Darkmaster.[432][433] - Silvershard Mines (battleground) - The Horde and Alliance struggle for control of a diamond mine deep in the jungles of Stranglethorn Vale.[434] - As the Horde prepares to invade Theramore, escalating their conflict with the Alliance, Chen and Li Li Stormstout set out to discover Pandaria. When they reach the shores, they discover that the mists have parted.[435] - Quest for Pandaria (novella) - Attack on Theramore Isle - The Horde launches an invasion of Theramore, detonating a mana bomb that levels the entire city. Archmage Rhonin sacrifices himself to push Jaina Proudmoore through a portal, saving her an instant before the bomb goes off.[436] - Theramore's Fall (Alliance) (scenario) - Theramore's Fall (Horde) (scenario) - Tides of War (novel) - Alliance-Horde war evolves into a full-scale conflict.«»[233] - Wandering Isle storyline - The Skyseeker crashes into the Wandering Isle.[437] and the Pandaren of Shen-zin Su split into two major groups, Tushui and Huojin and join the Alliance and Horde, respectively.[438] - Pandaria is accidentally discovered by the Alliance and Horde fleets as they skirmish in the South Seas.[439][440] - Why Do We Fight? (cinematic) - Bottoms Up (cinematic)[441] - Mists of Pandaria campaign - The Alliance and Horde forces quickly rally their fleets to conquer this new land.[440][442] - Li Li's Travel Journal (novella) (parts 5-11)« - Jade Forest storyline - The Horde and Alliance's forward strike forces land in the Jade Forest and through their conflict unleash the sha, threatening Pandaria.[443][444] They move through the forest gaining allies, their conflict culminating in the battle of the Serpent's Heart.[445] - Temple of the Jade Serpent (dungeon) - After the Sha of Doubt arises from the breaking of the Serpent's Heart, heroes chase it down into the Temple to put an end to it.[446] - A Brewing Storm (scenario) - Heroes assist Brewmaster Blanche craft a special brew and defend her from a saurok attack.[447] - Greenstone Village (scenario) - After adventurers cleared the region of sprites, earth spirits strike back against Greenstone Village, and adventurers are called upon again to defend against the threat.[447] - Valley of the Four Winds storyline and Krasarang Wilds storyline - Champions make their way into the Valley of the Four Winds where they make friends among the local Pandaren farmers and help Chen craft a new brew.[448] Meanwhile, other heroes venture into the Krasarang Wilds, exploring the dense wilds and stopping the Sha at the Temple of the Red Crane.[449] As the adventurers travel through the land, the mantid begin invading beyond the Serpent's Spine, attacking the Pandaren in the region.[450][451] - Stormstout Brewery (dungeon) - Adventurers journey into the Brewery to help Chen regain control from the chaos of the incompetent Uncle Gao[446] - Unga Ingoo (scenario) - Brewmaster Bo recruits heroes to help fight off a band of hozen pirates, armed from a shipwrecked Bloodsail ship.[447] - Kun-Lai Summit storyline - After fighting off the mantid, the heroes travel north to Kun-Lai Summit to discover the local Pandaren facing an invasion of Yaungol from the west.[452] Heroes defend against the invasion, then make their way north to gain the support of the Shado-Pan[453] and stop the Zandalari trolls who have come and are plundering mogu ruins in hopes to bring back the Thunder King, Lei Shen.[454] - Shado-Pan Monastery (dungeon) - The sha of Violence, Hatred and Anger break out within the monastery and begin wreaking havoc. While the Sha of Anger is taken out outside of the monastery, heroes venture in to free the Shado-Pan of the sha of Violence and Hatred.[446][455] - Brewmoon Festival (scenario) - Adventurers stop by Binan Village during Brewfest and help defend the town against a horde of Yaungol.[447] - Arena of Annihilation (scenario) - Gurgthock and Wodin the Troll-Servant come to the Temple of the White Tiger to host a new arena tournament, testing the steel of adventurers.[447] - Mogu'shan Vaults (raid) - Lorewalker Cho recruits adventurers to help delve into the mogu archives for ancient lore of the mogu empire.[456] - Townlong Steppes storyline - Adventurers, after having fought back the Yaungol invasion in Kun-Lai, push them back into Townlong Steppes.[457] Here they uncover another sha, the Sha of Hatred, causing trouble. With the assistance of the Shado-Pan, the heroes are able to defeat the Sha and its growing army of mantid.[458] - Siege of Niuzao Temple (dungeon) - The mantid launch a massive assault on Niuzao Temple, and adventurers are recruited to destroy the mantid's assault force.[446][459] - Dread Wastes storyline - Heroes begin moving into the Dread Wastes to push back the mantid's invasions. Here heroes find refuge and allies with the Klaxxi, and begin awakening their leaders to combat the rogue mantid monarch, Grand Empress Shek'zeer.[460][461] - Gate of the Setting Sun (dungeon) - The mantid make an assault against the Serpent's Spine, and heroes are called upon to help defend the gate.[462] - Heart of Fear (raid) - After the Sha of Fear broke out from Niuzao Temple[463], it begins to urge the mantid Grand Empress Shek'zeer to war against the Pandaren 10 years earlier than usual.[464] Heroes chase down the mantid empress and end her reign, though the Sha of Fear flees further inland.[465] - Vale of Eternal Blossoms storyline - The August Celestials open up the Gate of the August Celestials, allowing adventurers into the Vale of Eternal Blossoms to deal with the rising mogu threat.[466][467] - Mogu'shan Palace (dungeon) - The Gurthan, Harthak, and Kargesh clans set up residence in the ancient palace during their attempt to retake Pandaria. Adventurers enter the Palace to stop them and their newly minted King Xin.[468][469] - Temple of Kotmogu (battleground) - The Alliance and Horde skirmish over ancient treasures found in a mogu temple.[434] - Crypt of Forgotten Kings (dungeon) - A set of mogu ruins become corrupted by the sha, and adventurers delve into them to cleanse them of the corruption.[447] - Terrace of Endless Spring (raid) - Adventurers finally track down and confront the Sha of Fear to the Terrace of Endless Spring, ending its threat.[470] Patch 5.1.0 Landfall - Operation: Shieldwall and Dominance Offensive - The Alliance and Horde navies make landfall in the Krasarang Wilds of Pandaria, setting up the strongholds of Lion's Landing and Domination Point.[471][472] - Lion's Landing (scenario) - Just after the Alliance constructs Lion's Landing, the Horde sends in a strike force, and the Alliance champions rush to defend their new foothold.[447] - Domination Point (scenario) - Just after the Horde constructs Domination Point, the Alliance sends in a strike force, and the Horde champions rush to defend their new foothold.[447] - A Little Patience (scenario) - Tyrande Whisperwind and her forces are ambushed by a Horde strike force near the Temple of the Red Crane, and the champions of Lion's Landing are sent to defend her and free the temple from the Horde's occupation.[473] - Dagger in the Dark (scenario) - Garrosh sends in Vol'jin, a team of Kor'kron, and the champions of Domination Point to deal with the Saurok. During the mission, an assassination attempt by the Garrosh's men forces Vol'jin into hiding.[474][475] - Vol'jin: Shadows of the Horde (novel) - Assault on Zan'vess (scenario) - Champions assault Grand Empress Shek'zeer's final remaining forces in Zan'vess, retrieving their weapons stash to fuel their war.[447] - Garrosh's agents raid Darnassus to steal the [Divine Bell] and sabotage Lor'themar's negotiations with the Alliance, using Dalaran to quickly and quietly move his troops.[476][477] - Purge of Dalaran - After the theft of the Divine Bell, Archmage Jaina Proudmoore blamed Aethas Sunreaver for allowing the Horde to use Dalaran for their war against the Alliance. As punishment, she purged the Sunreavers and the Horde from Dalaran completely.[478] - Garrosh shatters the [Divine Bell] while attacking Prince Anduin Wrynn. The shattered pieces crush Anduin to near death.[479] - Kalecgos discovers the Spark of Tyr in Galakrond's Rest, triggering a vision of Galakrond's fall and the rise of the Aspects. (approx.)[480][481] - Dawn of the Aspects (novel) (present)« - Destination: Pandaria short stories (approx.)[Notes 5] - The Trial of the Red Blossoms (short story) (approx.) - Bleeding Sun (short story) (approx.) - The Blank Scroll (short story) (approx.) - The Jade Hunters (short story) (approx.) Patch 5.2.0 The Thunder King - Pursuing the Black Harvest (scenario) - Warlocks, seeking the knowledge of harnessing Fel Fire, journey to the Black Temple and assist Akama in slaying Kanrethad Ebonlocke, taking The Codex of Xerrath from him.[482] - The Zandalari resurrect Lei Shen and ally once more with him and his mogu subjects.[483] - Isle of Thunder storyline - The Kirin Tor Offensive and Sunreaver Onslaught land on the Isle of Thunder and begin to each besiege Lei Shen's Palace with the Shado-Pan.[484] - Throne of Thunder (raid) - Adventurers invade the Thunder King's fortress, putting an end to the risen tyrant, and freeing Highkeeper Ra.[485] Patch 5.3.0 Escalation - Blood in the Snow (scenario) - The Zandalari recruit the Frostmane tribe to assault Ironforge, and heroes of the Alliance are rallied by King Varian Wrynn and Moira Thaurissan to defend the dwarves' home. - Deepwind Gorge (battleground) - Alliance and Horde battle in the Valley of the Four Winds for precious resources.[486] - Battle on the High Seas (scenario) - The Horde and Alliance skirmish over the waters of the south seas as they make their way to Pandaria.[447] - Dark Heart of Pandaria (scenario) - The goblins under Warchief Garrosh excavate the Vale of Eternal Blossoms, searching for a mysterious artifact. Garrosh calls upon heroes of the Horde to assist in defending his goblin workers.[447] - The Darkspear Rebellion - The Darkspear Rebellion begins as Vol'jin returns to Durotar.»[486] - Battlefield: Barrens - The Barrens erupt in a bloody conflict between Garrosh's Kor'kron and Voljin's Revolutionaries.[486] - The Alliance forms a truce with the rebels to take out Garrosh Hellscream.[487] - The rebels liberate Sen'jin Village and Razor Hill.[488][489] - Secrets of Ragefire (scenario) - Disappearances in Durotar lead the Gob Squad to recruit horde revolutionaries to investigate suspicious Kor'kron activity in Ragefire Chasm.[447] - The Strength of Steel (short story)[490] Patch 5.4.0 Siege of Orgrimmar - The Heart of Y'Shaarj is unearthed and Garrosh Hellscream uses the Pools of Power to revive the Heart, destroying half of the Vale of Eternal Blossoms in the process.[491] - The Sha of Pride is unleashed from Garrosh's actions and the Klaxxi Paragons join Garrosh's forces who hold the heart of their fallen god.[492] - The Siege of Orgrimmar - The Darkspear Revolution, with support from the Alliance, besieges Orgrimmar in hopes of replacing the tyrant warchief Garrosh..[493] - Siege of Orgrimmar (raid) - Heroes of the Horde and Alliance push through Garrosh's defenses and confront the Warchief deep underneath Orgrimmar.[456] - Garrosh is dethroned and captured, then moved to Pandaria for trial.[494] - Vol'jin replaces Garrosh as Warchief of the Horde. - Alliance-Horde war ends« - Darkspear Rebellion ends« - The Timeless Isle, lost for millennia to the currents of time, emerges from the mists off the eastern coast of Jade Forest.[493] - Over Water (short story)[495] - The Untamed Valley (short story)[496] - Garrosh Hellscream escapes from custody in Pandaria with the help of Wrathion, Kairoz, and Zaela. Kairoz takes him to an alternate Draenor, 35 years earlier, in hopes to build an infinite army.[498][499] - War Crimes (novel) (origin)» Warlords of Draenor - -24, alternate timeline - -11, alternate timeline - -4, alternate timeline - Kairozdormu brings Garrosh to an alternate Draenor, hoping for him to create the first of an infinite amount new Hordes. Not wanting to be a pawn, Garrosh betrays and kills Kairoz with a shard of the Vision of Time.[498][499] - War Crimes (novel) (past)« - Garrosh uses a shard of the Vision of Time to convince Grommash Hellscream not to drink Mannoroth's blood, and to instead create the Iron Horde. - Gul'dan and the Stranger (comic)[501] - Grom rejects the demon blood, kills Mannoroth, and captures Gul'dan. Construction of the Dark Portal begins.[502][Notes 6] - Times Change (cinematic) - Blood and Thunder (comic) (present)«[503] - Code of Rule (short story) (approx.) Patch 6.0.2 The Iron Tide - Blackfathom Deeps (dungeon) - Twilight Lord Bathiel assumed control of Blackfathom Deeps after feeding his sire, Lord Kelris to the Aku'mai the Devourer. Adventurers of the Horde are rallied to end both the Twilight Lord, and the Old God's pet within.[505][392] - Razorfen Kraul (dungeon) - Charlga Razorflank, making deals with the remnants of the Scourge, lead the Quillboar down a dark path. The spirit of the Wild God Agamaggan recruits adventurers to bring down Charlga to return the quilboar to their noble roots.[506] - Razorfen Downs (dungeon) - Death Speaker Blackthorn raises his master Amnennar the Coldbringer back into unlife, bringing the Downs back under the control of the Scourge. The red dragonflight recruits heroes to once again take out this threat.[507] - The Dark Portal on Alternate Draenor is finished and connected to the one on Azeroth; The portal's glow turns from green to red, and both timelines' events run simultaneously from this point.[508] - The Iron Horde's initial invasion of Azeroth begins as the Iron Horde floods through the Dark Portal. They make it all the way to Blackrock Spire, destroying Nethergarde Keep along the way. - Lords of War (animated shorts) (present)« - Upper Blackrock Spire (dungeon) - The Horde and Alliance strike back against the Iron Horde incursion by immediately moving to retake Blackrock Spire from the Iron Horde and Warlord Zaela.[509] - The Iron Horde's initial invasion of Azeroth begins as the Iron Horde floods through the Dark Portal. They make it all the way to Blackrock Spire, destroying Nethergarde Keep along the way. Patch 6.0.3a Warlords of Draenor - Warlords of Draenor campaign - In retaliation, Khadgar assembles the champions of the Alliance and the Horde, leading them through the portal to stop the Iron Horde on Draenor once and for all.[510] - Warlords of Draenor intro experience - In Tanaan Jungle, Draenor's Dark Portal is destroyed by the Azerothian strike force, severing its connection.[511] The Horde and Alliance forces split off, the Alliance heading towards Shadowmoon Valley and the Horde towards Frostfire Ridge.[512] - Frostfire Ridge storyline and Shadowmoon Valley storyline - The Horde expedition arrives at Frostfire Ridge where they establish a garrison named Frostwall[513], help the Frostwolf Clan conquer Bladespire Citadel[514], slay Warlord Fenris[515], and halt the Iron Horde at the Battle of Thunder Pass[516]. Meanwhile, the Alliance expedition ventures into Shadowmoon Valley and makes contact with the local draenei[517], establish a garrison named Lunarfall[518], force Ner'zhul into hiding after the Dark Star is purified[519], and successfully repel the Iron Horde during the Defense of Karabor[520]. - Bloodmaul Slag Mines (dungeon) - Heroes of the Horde invade a Bloodmaul mine to free orcish slaves and prevent Imperator Mar'gok from obtaining a relic of immense power.[521][522] - Shadowmoon Burial Grounds (dungeon) - Heroes of the Alliance chase Ner'zhul down and confront him within the burial grounds.[523] - Gorgrond storyline - Adventurers move into Gorgrond and set up a forward base before launching an attack on the blackrock forces.[524] - Iron Docks (dungeon) - Heroes launch an assault on the Iron Horde shipyards to prevent them from launching an attack, destroying their weapons of war.[521][525] - Grimrail Depot (dungeon) - The Iron Horde prepares for an assault of Shattrath City, and adventurers are sent to wipe out the reinforcements coming via the Grimrail Depot.[526] - The Everbloom (dungeon) - The Kirin Tor's forward base against Blackrock Foundry is assaulted by the botani, threatening the large portal to Stormwind City. Heroes are quickly recruited to end this threat.[527] - Talador storyline - Shattrath City is liberated from Iron Horde control and Blackhand is forced to escape, though not before killing Maraad and Orgrim Doomhammer during the confrontation.[528] At some point, however, the liberated city is occupied by the Shadow Council.[529] - Auchindoun (dungeon) - Gul'dan, seeking favor from his demonic masters, sends the Shadow Council to gather the draenei spirits resting in the mausoleum.[521] - Spires of Arak storyline - Heroes adventure into the Spires of Arak, where they assist the Arakkoa Outcasts in their war against the Adherents of Rukhmar, working to topple the adherent superweapon.[530][531] - Nagrand storyline - In Nagrand, Warlord Dharl of the Burning Blade clan is slain at Hallvalor[532], followed by Garrosh Hellscream, who ultimately meets his end at Thrall's hands during the Siege of Grommashar[533]. - Ashran (PvP event) - The Horde and Alliance skirmish over an island east of Tanaan Jungle, fighting over the ancient treasures of an ancient ogre empire.[534][535] - Garrison Campaign - The Horde and Alliance forces work to dismantle the Iron Horde and Legion forces across Draenor.[536] - Highmaul (raid) - The Alliance, Horde and Cho'gall's pale orcs attack Highmaul, Kargath Bladefist is slain by adventurers while Imperator Mar'gok dies at Cho'gall's hands and the Gorian Empire is left crippled.[537][538] - Blackrock Foundry (raid) - Champions besiege Blackrock Foundry to confront Warlord Blackhand, stopping the Iron Horde's manufacturing of weapons and vehicles.[537] Patch 6.1.0 Garrisons Update - Grommash's failure breeds dissent within the ranks, affording the warlock Gul'dan the opportunity to usurp the Iron Horde and summon the demonic Burning Legion to Draenor, joined by Warlord Kilrogg of the Bleeding Hollow clan.[539] - Gul'dan persuades the Iron Horde's remaining leaders to serve the Burning Legion, imprisons Grommash, and also recruits the aid of Shadow-Sage Iskar and the Sethekk arakkoa.[537][540] - Garrison Campaign continues as the Horde and Alliance forces take out the Burning Blade.[541] Patch 6.2.0 Fury of Hellfire - Gul'dan takes control of Hellfire Citadel, intending to use it as a staging area for the Legion to invade Draenor. He then proceeds to summon the demon lord Archimonde.[542] - Tanaan Jungle storyline - The Horde and Alliance forces construct a fleet, and land at the shores of Tanaan Jungle.[543] They set up fortifications in the jungle, taking out Gul'dan's forces, and prepare to lay siege to Hellfire Citadel.[544] - Hellfire Citadel (raid) - Aided by Khadgar, Yrel, Durotan, and a freed Grommash, Azeroth's champions battle their way through the horrors unleashed within Hellfire Citadel and after a harrowing struggle that nearly destroys Draenor, the heroes are able to cast down Archimonde.[545] - As he falls, Archimonde hurls Gul'dan through a portal to fulfill his pact with the Legion.[546] - Hellfire Citadel (raid) - Aided by Khadgar, Yrel, Durotan, and a freed Grommash, Azeroth's champions battle their way through the horrors unleashed within Hellfire Citadel and after a harrowing struggle that nearly destroys Draenor, the heroes are able to cast down Archimonde.[545] - Heroes return to Azeroth, closing the way to the alternate Draenor behind them.[547]» Legion - King Magni Bronzebeard awakens in Old Ironforge.[550] - Magni: Fault Lines (comic) - Gul'dan re-opens the sealed portal inside the Tomb of Sargeras, beginning the Burning Legion's third invasion of Azeroth.[551] - The Tomb of Sargeras (audio drama) - Khadgar warns the faction leaders of the Legion's return,[552] then heads to Karazhan for answers.[553] - Harbingers - Khadgar (animated short) Patch 7.0.3 Legion - Battle for the Broken Shore (Legion intro experience) - The Alliance and Horde attack the Legion's foothold at the Broken Shore, hoping to end the invasion before it begins.[554] - Azeroth's Last Hope (cinematic) - High King Varian Wrynn is killed while Warchief Vol'jin and Tirion Fordring are gravely injured. - Vol'jin dies and Sylvanas Windrunner becomes Warchief of the Horde.[555] Anduin Wrynn becomes King of Stormwind as well as High King of the Alliance.[556] - Gul'dan and his legion penetrate the Vault of the Wardens thanks to Cordana Felsong, stealing the crystal within which Illidan's corpse was contained.[557] He travels to Black Rook Hold and severs Illidan's body from his soul, causing the night elf dead buried within the fortress to return as maddened ghosts.[558] - World of Warcraft Cinematic Teaser (cinematic) - Demon hunter starting experience ends« - During the attack on the Vault, Maiev released the captive Illidari.[559] The demon hunters escaped from the besieged Vault and headed to Stormwind City and Orgrimmar under Khadgar's guidance.[560][561] - Legion Invasions - The Legion openly launches full-scale invasions on Kalimdor and the Eastern Kingdoms.[562] - Dark Mirror (short story)[563][564] - The Burning Legion makes assassination attempts in Orgrimmar and Stormwind as the faction leaders gather to mourn the Warchief and the High King, but the Illidari undid their plans and are as such accepted as allies among the two factions.[565] - Gul'dan gains access to the Nightwell by allying with the nightborne, led by Elisande.[566] - Nightborne: Twilight of Suramar (comic) - Dargrul the Underking betrays the Highmountain tauren by murdering Highchieftain Ulan Highmountain and stealing the Hammer of Khaz'goroth.[567] - Highmountain: A Mountain Divided (comic) - Dalaran is moved above Karazhan while Khadgar, Magni, Brann Bronzebeard and the adventurers go to Ulduar. Magni tells them to seek the Pillars of Creation.[568] - Legion campaign - Dalaran is moved to the Broken Isles to coordinate the search for the Pillars.[569] - Azsuna storyline - The class orders help Prince Farondis regain his status and undo the naga's advances led by Tidemistress Athissa.[570][571] - Eye of Azshara (dungeon) - Queen Azshara appears before Prince Farondis, and announces the coming of her Wrath. The order hall champions are then sent to defeat the Wrath of Azshara and retrieve the first Pillar of Creation, the [Tidestone of Golganneth].[572][573] - Vault of the Wardens (dungeon) - The order halls send heroes into the vault to recover artifacts and end the traitorous Warden, Cordana Felsong.[574] - Val'sharah storyline - Xavius returns and spreads the the Nightmare throughout Val'sharah, takes Cenarius, Thaon Moonclaw and Elothir among others. Xavius corrupts the Tears of Elune, using it to corrupt Ysera who is then mercifully put down by adventurers. The second Pillar, the Tear of Elune, is recovered from Ysera and purified from corruption.[575][576] - Darkheart Thicket (dungeon) - Heroes chase Xavius into the thicket to confront the nightmare lord's shade and rescue Malfurion Stormrage.[577] - Black Rook Hold (dungeon) - Heroes delved into the ancient keep to purify the spirits disturbed by Gul'dan's foul magic and demonic allies.[574] - Highmountain storyline - War wages between Dargrul and the Highmountain Tribe. The Skyhorn[578] and Stonedark[579] tribes are rallied under the Highmountain, while the Rivermane tribe is decimated by Dargrul[580] and the Bloodtotem accept the fel-gift and become Felsworn.[581] The coalition launches an assault on the home of the drogbar as Dargrul retreats to Neltharion's Lair.[582] - Neltharion's Lair (dungeon) - Champions, guided by Spiritwalker Ebonhorn, enter Neltharion's Lair and kill Dargrul, securing the third Pillar, the [Hammer of Khaz'goroth].[583] - Stormheim storyline - The Alliance led by Genn Greymane assault Sylvanas and the Horde. The Skyfire is destroyed in the skirmish.[584] Horde and Alliance Champions obtain the blessing of Ashildir and are granted audience with Eyir. Sylvanas' attempt to enslave her is thwarted by Genn Greymane.[585] Meanwhile, Champions of the order halls pass the different trials of the people of Stormheim and obtain the blessing of Yotnar, of the Thorignir, and of the ancient vrykul kings.[586] The Legion and the Felskorn make a combind assault at the Gates of Valor, but are repelled by the champions.[587] - Halls of Valor (dungeon) - The champions finally pass Odyn's test in the Halls of Valor, kill God-King Skovald and secure the penultimate Pillar, the [Aegis of Aggramar].[588] - Maw of Souls (dungeon) - Adventurers delve into Helheim to confront Helya from claiming more souls bound for the dark afterlife.[574] - Suramar storyline - Champions are sent into Suramar where they assist the Nightfallen, led by Thalyssra, in their rebellion against Grand Magistrix Elisande and the Nightborne nobility.[589]. - Arcway (dungeon) - Heroes are sent into the Arcway to slay Advisor Vandros, one of Elisande's advisors.[590] - Court of Stars (dungeon) - Adventurers sneak into a ball in disguise and enact Thalyssra's vengeance against Advisor Melandrus, depriving Elisande of another advisor.[591] - Assault on Violet Hold (dungeon) - The Legion assaults the Violet Hold hoping to release some of the Lich King's most dangerous servants. Champions rush to defend the prison and stop the Legion's assault.[574][592] - Order Hall campaigns - Organizations across Azeroth assemble their resources and work to fight against the Legion's invasion.[593] - Death Knight Campaign - Allying with the Lich King Bolvar Fordragon, the Knights of the Ebon Blade raise new horsemen to fight against the Legion.[594] - Demon Hunter Campaign - The Demon Hunters work to reunite the various forces that served Illidan Stormrage during the Invasion of Outland, and recover the [Sargerite Keystone] that went missing when they were captured by the Wardens. The Illidari assault Niskara, hunting down the demon leaders Caria Felsoul and Varedis Felsoul.[595][596] - Druid Campaign - The druids of the Cenarion Circle work against the spreading Emerald Nightmare, working to confront and slay Xavius the Nightmare Lord.[597][598] - Hunter Campaign - The Unseen Path begin recruiting new Hunters and Rangers to their ranks, and work to aid the forces of Azeroth against the Legion's invasion, and take out the demonic lieutenant, Hakkar the Houndmaster.[599][600] - Mage Campaign - The Tirisgarde is reformed, and the dreadlord Kathra'natir works to subvert the mages' plans hoping to bring down the Kirin Tor, but the mages of the stop the dreadlord's plans.[601][602] - Monk Campaign - After the Legion's invasion of the Peak of Serenity, the Order of the Broken Temple is formed as the monks take refuge at the Temple of Five Dawns on the Wandering Isle. Here they begin work to craft the legendary Storm Brew to empower their forces against the legion.[603][604] - Paladin Campaign - Working against the Legion, the Knights of the Silver Hand recover a message from Turalyon and work to prepare an alliance between them, the Conclave and the Army of the Light, working together to confront the dreadlord Balnazzar during his assault on Netherlight Temple.[605][606][607] - Priest Campaign - The Conclave reclaims Netherlight Temple and begins recruiting priestly champions of both the light and void to their cause. They then ally with the Knights of the Silver Hand and the Army of the Light to defeat the dreadlord Balnazzar during his assault on Netherlight Temple.[608][606][607] - Rogue Campaign - The rogues of the Uncrowned work to subvert the Legion's influence, and investigate strange happenings around the SI:7, leading to them uncovering that Mathias Shaw had been replaced by the dreadlord Detheroc.[609][610] - Shaman Campaign - The shaman of the Earthen Ring assemble at the Heart of Azeroth on the edge of the Maelstrom. They work to reunite the four elemental lords, while fighting off the return of the Twilight's Hammer.[611][612] - Warlock Campaign - Warlocks of the Council of the Black Harvest assemble to strike at the Legion, taking out Jagganoth and claim Dreadscar Rift as their own. They then work to subvert Mephistroth's schemes by destroying or enthralling his demonic lieutenants, including the Eredar Twins.[613][614] - Warrior Campaign - The Keeper Odyn recruits warrior champions into the Halls of Valor as Valarjar, where they recovered [The Gjallarhorn] to call upon the keepers of Ulduar to aid against their war against the Legion. The Valarjar traveled to Ulduar, fending off a Legion assault, before invading Niskara to rescue Keeper Hodir.[615][616][617] - The Emerald Nightmare (raid) - Xavius is defeated within the Emerald Nightmare, purging the Emerald Dream from its influence.[618] - Azsuna storyline - The class orders help Prince Farondis regain his status and undo the naga's advances led by Tidemistress Athissa.[570][571] Patch 7.1.0 Return to Karazhan - Trial of Valor (raid) - Helya is killed in her realm of Helheim during the Trial of Valor, finally freeing Prime Designate Odyn and his Valarjar army from the Halls of Valor.[619][618] - Return to Karazhan (dungeon) - The Burning Legion invades the magical tower of Karazhan, seeking to turn it into a second gateway to Azeroth as they did with the Tomb of Sargeras. Khadgar and the class orders thwart the Legion's efforts, culminating in the defeat of the demon leader, Viz'aduum the Watcher, with the help of Medivh.[620] Patch 7.1.5 - The Nighthold (raid) - Alternate Gul'dan is defeated at the Nighthold and Suramar City is retaken by the Nightfallen.[618] Patch 7.2.0 The Tomb of Sargeras - Assault on Broken Shore (Broken Shore storyline) - The Armies of Legionfall are formed. attacking the Broken Shore and securing Deliverance Point, Aalgen Point and Vengeance Point.[621] - Legion Assaults - In response to the Armies of Legionfall, the Burning Legion summons in many Legion Ships and launches assaults on the Broken Isles.[622] - Anduin Wrynn retrieves Shalamayne at the Broken Shore.[623] - Cathedral of Eternal Night (dungeon) - Mephistroth, the mastermind behind the Legion's invasion, is defeated within the Cathedral of Eternal Night and the Aegis of Aggramar is installed, as the first Pillar to be used to seal the Tomb.[574] - Anduin: Son of the Wolf (comic) (present)» (approx.)[624] - Wailing Critters (scenario) - A shadowy figure has been influencing the deviate critters of the Wailing Caverns and heroes are sent to investigate.[625] Patch 7.2.5 - The Deaths of Chromie (present))» - Heroes assist Chromie in averting her own assassination.[626] - Tomb of Sargeras (raid) - Kil'jaeden is defeated and the Tomb of Sargeras is sealed once more using the Pillars of Creation.[627] - The citizens of Dalaran panic, the Kirin Tor tries to keep the population under control while doomsayers and disguised demons cause more unrest.[629] - Deadmines (scenario) - Suspicious activity has been seen around the Deadmines, and heroes are called in to investigate, finding another shadowy figure stealing from "Captain" Cookie's cauldron.[630] Patch 7.3.0 Shadows of Argus - Argus Campaign (Argus storyline) - The draenei launch a full assault on the Burning Legion's homeworld of Argus using their newly constructed ship, the Vindicaar. Meeting with the Army of the Light above Krokuun, the latter's ship, the Xenedar, is shot down.[631] - Krokuun storyline - Velen reunites with the krokul of Krokuun. Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner are found after 22 years of absence.[632] Krokuun is liberated, until the Army of the Light's advance is crushed by Aggramar at Nath'raxas Hold.[633] - A Thousand Years of War (audio drama) ends« - Antoran Wastes storyline - The Army sets up a foothold in the Antoran Wastes and wages guerilla war with the Legion.[634] - Eredath storyline - The Army goes to Eredath where they retrieve the [Sigil of Awakening] and the Crest of Knowledge.[635][636] - Seat of the Triumvirate (dungeon) - Alleria Windrunner deals with the Void threat locked away in the Seat of the Triumvirate, the dark naaru L'ura.[636] - Invasion Points - While the Burning Legion focuses their defenses on Argus, adventurers take the fight to the Legion on other worlds.[637] - Antorus, the Burning Throne (raid) - The heroes of Azeroth invade Antorus, the Burning Throne, the seat of the Burning Legion's power, where they free the spirits of the imprisoned titan Pantheon and ultimately defeat the worldsoul of Argus.[618] - The Pantheon imprison Sargeras at the Seat of the Pantheon, with Illidan Stormrage staying behind, but not before Sargeras impales Silithus with his sword.[638] - The Crystal of Beledar shifted into the void for the first time.[639] - The soul of Argus is sent into the Shadowlands, breaking the Arbiter and dooming countless souls to the Maw.[640][641] - Krokuun storyline - Velen reunites with the krokul of Krokuun. Turalyon and Alleria Windrunner are found after 22 years of absence.[632] Krokuun is liberated, until the Army of the Light's advance is crushed by Aggramar at Nath'raxas Hold.[633] Patch 7.3.5 - Magni: The Speaker (comic)[642] - Legion epilogue - The lifeblood of Azeroth, Azerite, begins to spill forth from the Silithus: The Wound. Both the Horde and Alliance quickly send forces to investigate and gather this resource. Champions are summoned by Magni to help drain the sword of its dark energies by absorbing them into their artifact weapons.[643][644][645] - The Alliance and the Horde, preparing for possible conflict, begin to recruit new allies.[646] - Highmountain tauren Horde recruitment - Mayla Highmountain and Spiritwalker Ebonhorn are invited to Thunder Bluff for a feast, but during the feast Ebonhorn is assaulted by the whispers of Uul'gyneth. Traveling back to Highmountain, adventurers assist Ebonhorn in renewing the wards he used to resist the corruption of the Old Gods.[647][648] - Nightborne Horde recruitment - Lor'themar Theron invites Lady Thalyssra to Silvermoon, and Alleria comes to make a pilgrimage to the Sunwell. As they approach, Alleria's void energies seep into the Sunwell, opening a gateway for Nether-Prince Durzaan to try and invade. After the void's forces are defeated, Alleria is banished from Quel'Thalas.[649] - Void elf Alliance recruitment - Alleria Windrunner leads heroes of the Alliance into the Ghostlands in search of Magister Umbric and his followers, who were exiled from Silvermoon for their studies of the Void. Finding Umbric within Telogrus Rift, he and the Alliance join forces to banish Nether-Prince Durzaan, but not before the ethereal's ritual transformed Umbric and his followers into void elves.[650][651] - Lightforged draenei Alliance recruitment - Champions of the Alliance venture to the Vindicaar to recruit the Army of the Light into the ranks of the Alliance. While there, they assist an initiate in his final trials in joining the army.[652] - Seething Shore (battleground) - Large pockets of Azerite appear throughout Azeroth, and the Horde and Alliance begin to skirmish over this valuable resource.[653] Battle for Azeroth - Jaina: Reunion (comic) - Magni: The Speaker (comic) - Windrunner: Three Sisters (comic) - Warbringers Jaina (animated short) - Warbringers Sylvanas (animated short) (present)« - Before the Storm[657][658] Patch 8.0.1 Battle for Azeroth - The Fourth War begins with the Burning of Teldrassil.[659] - Battle for Lordaeron - War in Kul Tiras & War in Zandalar - Battle for Stromgarde - The Alliance and the Horde respectively ally with the Kul Tirans and the Zandalari. - Uldir Patch 8.1.0 Tides of Vengeance - 34[660] - Battle for Darkshore - Battle of Dazar'alor: Rastakhan is killed by the Alliance. Talanji becomes Queen of Zandalar. Patch 8.1.5 Patch 8.2.0 Rise of Azshara - Both factions crash on Nazjatar. - Queen Azshara is defeated in the Eternal Palace, but manages to release N'Zoth. Patch 8.2.5 - The Alliance and Horde War Campaigns end outside Orgrimmar with the death of Varok Saurfang and the abdication of Sylvanas Windrunner. Alliance and Horde call for an armistice. Patch 8.3.0 Visions of N'Zoth - The Black Empire rises in Uldum and Pandaria. - The power of Azeroth is unleashed on Ny'alotha, the Waking City, destroying N'Zoth. - The position of Warchief is replaced by a Horde Council. Shadowlands - A Moment in Verse - Shadows Rising - Terror by Torchlight - Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms - Exploring Azeroth: Kalimdor - Death Rising - We Ride Forth - Sylvanas defeats the Lich King Bolvar Fordragon and destroys the Helm of Domination, opening a rift through the Veil separating Azeroth from the Shadowlands.[662] Mawsworn kyrian kidnap Anduin Wrynn, Jaina Proudmoore, Thrall, and Baine Bloodhoof and bring them to the Maw.[663] Without the Lich King's control, the Scourge begin to rampage across Azeroth. - Turalyon, with the support of the House of Nobles, becomes the regent of Stormwind. - Tyrande Whisperwind kills Nathanos Blightcaller at the Marris Stead.[664] - Adventurers and the Knights of the Ebon Blade enter the Maw to rescue the kidnapped leaders.[665] The adventurers escape the Jailer by activating a First One waystone to Oribos,[666] becoming Maw Walkers. - The Maw Walkers follow their only lead—the Mawsworn kyrian—to Bastion,[667][668] where in the process of trying to get an audience with the Archon,[669] they discover a conspiracy by the rebel Forsworn. The House of Constructs and House of Rituals invade Bastion.[670] - The Maw Walkers travel to Maldraxxus to discover the cause of the invasion[671][672] and ally with Baroness Draka and other necrolords still loyal to the missing Primus. They assemble the Blade of the Primus and open the Seat of the Primus, where they discover a message left by its former occupant stating that the Eternal Ones have to work together to prevent the Jailer from escaping the Maw and reaching "the sepulcher".[673] - The Maw Walkers travel to Ardenweald to deliver the warning to the Winter Queen.[674] They battle an invasion from the Drust and bond with the wildseed of the dead Ysera[675] before gaining an audience with the Winter Queen, who resurrects Ysera[676] and informs the Maw Walkers that Ardenweald is in dire need of anima. She sends them to Revendreth to ask Sire Denathrius for help.[677][678] - In Revendreth, the Maw Walkers discover that Denathrius is responsible for the anima drought.[679] They ally with the Sinfall rebellion and rescue its leader—Denathrius' son Prince Renathal—from the Maw[680] and save some of his allies from Torghast, Tower of the Damned.[681] The rebels confront Denathrius, but he defeats them and releases his anima stores into the Maw, causing it to grow dramatically.[682] - The Maw Walkers join one of the four covenants to help them regain their strength and combat the various threats they face.[683][684] - The Maw Walkers return to Torghast,[685] gradually rescue Baine,[686] Jaina,[687] and Thrall,[688] and ally with the imprisoned Runecarver.[689] Anduin remains imprisoned by Sylvanas and the Jailer.[690] - Sanguine Depths: Maw Walkers rescue the naaru Z'rali from Denathrius' minions. - Castle Nathria: Denathrius is defeated and imprisoned in his sword Remornia through use of the Light with Z'rali's help.[691] - Sylvanas gives Anduin the ultimatum of joining her and the Jailer willingly or being forced to serve.[692] Patch 9.1.0 Chains of Domination - The Jailer pulls the realm of Korthia into the Maw. He dominates Anduin and uses him to obtain the sigils of the Archon[693] and the Winter Queen.[694] - The united covenants and the Ebon Blade invade Korthia as the Death's Advance.[695] - The Runecarver is freed and revealed to be the Primus, but the Jailer obtains his sigil.[696] The Primus declares that the Maw Walkers have to defeat the Jailer in his stronghold. The covenants create replacement sigils that they will need in order to pursue the Jailer if the assault fails.[697] - Sanctum of Domination: The Jailer expands the Maw to envelop Oribos and claims the Arbiter's sigil, the last one he needs. Sylvanas turns against him and the Jailer restores a missing fragment of her soul before discarding her and escaping with Anduin through a portal to the Sepulcher.[702] - The Primus sets out to find a replacement for the Arbiter's sigil so he can create a key to follow the Jailer to the Sepulcher.[6] Patch 9.2.0 Eternity's End - Maw Walkers and covenant forces open a gateway to Zereth Mortis to conduct the final campaign against Zovaal, gaining allies with the Enlightened of Haven. - Sylvanas assists the heroes in an effort to save Anduin, and Maw Walkers accompanied by several heroes of Azeroth attack the Sepulcher of the First Ones. With their help, Anduin breaks free from the Jailer's domination. - The Crown of Wills is created from the shattered shards of the Helm of Domination, and used to protect the Maw Walkers against the Jailer's domination magic. - Preparations are made to build a new Arbiter with Saezurah. When the initial effort is thwarted by the nathrezim, Pelagos offers his own soul to become the new Arbiter. - The Maw Walkers assault the Sepulcher one last time and defeat Zovaal, bringing the end of the war against the Jailer. - End of the anima drought all across the Shadowlands. The souls of the dead are no longer sent in the Maw. - Sylvanas returns to Oribos to be judged by the new Arbiter. She submits herself to the judgment of Tyrande Whisperwind, who declares her penance to be scouring the Maw to send every soul there to the Arbiter for judgment. Sylvanas accepts and enters the Maw. - Haunted by his time as the Jailer's puppet, Anduin Wrynn bids farewell to Genn Greymane and joins Sylvanas in the Maw. Patch 9.2.5 - The Winter Queen gifts The Sisters' Tear to Tyrande Whisperwind. - The Scourge forces in the Ghostlands are rallied by Vorath and attack Tranquillien. The Blood Knights lead the defense and counterattack against Vorath in Deatholme with a ranseur empowered by the magics of the Shadowlands. - The Forsaken return to Brill and start rebuilding it. Prominent Forsaken team up in an effort to clear the blight out of the Ruins of Lordaeron. Calia Menethil steps forward to lead the charge, traveling to the House of Plagues in Maldraxxus in order to gain a valuable means against the blight. With Calia's plan successful, the blight in Lordaeron is dispersed. The Forsaken reclaim the city and establish a new Desolate Council. Dragonflight - 40[427] - Exploring Azeroth: Northrend - Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria[703] - The Vow Eternal - Lor'themar Theron and Thalyssra are wed, and the dragons hear the call of the Dragon Isles, beckoning them home. Patch 10.0.2: Dragonflight - A tempest is unleashed across Azeroth, and is contained with the defeat of the Primalists' forces. - The dracthyr awaken from stasis in the Forbidden Reach. Subsequently, Raszageth the Storm Eater is freed from her imprisonment within the Froststone Vault. Two of the dracthyr weyrns, the Obsidian Warders and the Dark Talons, join the Alliance and Horde respectively. The Ebon Scales, meanwhile, turn against the Aspects and rename themselves the Sundered Flame. - Alliance and Horde expeditions travel to the Dragon Isles where the adventurers aided the dragonflights and the Dragon Aspects in restoring the oathstones and fighting against the Primalists. Adventurers also aided the Maruuk Centaur against Clan Nokhud and Iskaara Tuskarr against the Brackenhide gnolls. - Tyrande Whisperwind led an effort to bring Ysera back from the Shadowlands to the Dragon Isles, trading places with Malfurion Stormrage. - Adventurers manage to kill Raszageth in the Vault of the Incarnates, but the remaining Primal Incarnates - Fyrakk, Iridikron, and Vyranoth - are freed from their prison. Patch 10.0.7: Return to the Forbidden Reach - The freed Primal Incarnates head out to the Forbidden Reach and recover a locket, which revealed the location of Aberrus in Zaralek Cavern, hoping to claim shadowflame. - After hardships, the Windtotem tribe of tauren settle in the Ohn'ahran Plains. - The orc nation of Durotar celebrates their first Azerothian Kosh'harg. Stormwind faces a new unrest from the remnants of the Defias Brotherhood and corrupt nobles, but the enemies are defeated by Stormwind champions. - Sonova Snowden in the Azure Span starts working with the Winterpelt furbolgs. - The black dragon Adamanthia is found by Ebyssian and Scalecommander Emberthal. Patch 10.1.0: Embers of Neltharion - Mortals enter Zaralek Cavern and team up with the Loamm Niffen. Spearheaded by the black dragonflight and Dragonscale Expedition, they fight against the Sundered Flame and Neltharion's old loyalists and their experiments. The Primalists gain a new ally - Zaqali tribe of djaradin. - Wrathion and Sabellian lead their forces and allies inside Aberrus, defeating enemies. Scalecommander Sarkareth is killed and much of Aberrus is reclaimed by the black dragonflight.[704] - Wrathion and Sabellian end their quarrels and choose Ebyssian as their new Aspect.[705] Merithra, encouraged by her mother Ysera, becomes the green Aspect.[706] - Nozdormu aids dracthyr evokers to obtain Nasz'uro, the Unbound Legacy.[707] Patch 10.1.5: Fractures in Time - Time streams become chaotic as Time Rifts open in Thaldraszus. Soridormi and her Timewalkers work with adventurers on defeating the anomalies and closing the rifts. - Fyrakk is empowered with shadowlame and runs rampant on the Dragon Isles, while Iridikron allies with the infinite dragonflight. He travels to the ancient past of Galakrond's defeat, takes his essence via the locket, and enters a void portal to join up with the Harbinger of the Void. Chrono-Lord Deios is defeated, and Nozdormu is no longer destined to be transformed into Murozond.[708] - Lord Banehollow, disguised as Madam Shadow in Darkmoon Island, tries to lure a new generation of warlocks, but his ploy is revealed and is defeated in the Blasted Lands.[709] - Emberthal and Ebyssian free Adamanthia. Patch 10.1.7: Fury Incarnate - The Emerald Dream starts to seep its magic into the Dragon Isles. - The Ruins of Lordaeron are under attack by the renewed Scarlet Crusade.[710] The Forsaken leadership and champions lead a counterattack across Silverpine Forest and invade Fenris Isle in order to defeat Scarlet Commander Forsythe.[711] A group of kaldorei ventures into Felwood to halt a demonic resurgence in Jaedenar, defeating Lord Hel'nurath and his lackeys.[712] - Fyrakk and Vyranoth are left behind on the Dragon Isles following Iridikron's leave. As Fyrakk tortures Gerithus and recruits the Druids of the Flame, Vyranoth leaves and joins Alexstrasza and the Valdrakken Accord.[713] - The surviving Sundered Flame bend the knee to Scalecommander Emberthal who, with the aid of Winglord Dezran, reforms the Ebon Scales.[714] - Chieftain Hatuun summons Velen to Argus to meet Arzal'kal, a man'ari eredar who seeks redemption for the crimes he committed as part of the Burning Legion. Aided by adventurers, Arzal'kal slays Speaker Nalridun, leader of a fanatic cult loyal to Sargeras, and reclaims the Brilliant Star, a shard of the ata'mal crystal. Arzal'kal resumes his former name of Arzaal, opening the way for other man'ari to rejoin their people.[715] Patch 10.2.0: Guardians of the Dream - Fyrakk enters the Emerald Dream, intent on claiming and burn Amirdrassil.[716] The forces of the Primalists, Zaqali, and Druids of the Flame are defeated across the Dream. Adventurers fight against their leadership inside Amirdrassil and kill Tindral Sageswift, Smolderon, Igira, and ultimately Fyrakk himself.[717] - On the behest of Wrathion and Vyranoth, nether dragons come from Outland to settle in Thaldraszus,[718] and storm dragons are freed from Odyn's command.[719] - With the enemies defeated and Amirdrassil saved, the Dragon Aspects are blessed and empowered by Azeroth, and the World Tree blooms into the Dragon Isles, west of the Ohn'ahran Plains. Tyrande and other notable kaldorei settlers then proceed to create a new moonwell and found Bel'ameth beneath the branches of Amirdrassil.[720] The Isles' inhabitants and the heroes of the Alliance and Horde then gather here to commemorate the historic event. At the same time, several heroes start hearing a voice.[721] - The Dragon Aspect Kalecgos steppes down from the Council of Six. Patch 10.2.5: Seeds of Renewal - With Bel'ameth established and serving as a new home for the kaldorei, Ysera returned to the Shadowlands, and Tyrande and Malfurion stepped down from the leadership of their people and appointed their daughter Shandris Feathermoon to lead the kaldorei.[722] - An archaeological group called the Azerothian Archives came to the Dragon Isles to discover more from its history.[723] - Gilneans retake their home from the Scarlet Crusade with the aid of Alliance and Horde soldiers.[724] With Gilneas back under the control of the worgen kingdom, Genn Greymane abdicated and named Tess Greymane as queen.[725] Patch 10.2.7: Dark Heart - The draenei of the Exodar celebrate the Tishamaat with all their brethren, Broken, Lost Ones, and man'ari eredar, from across Outland and Argus.[726] After defeating Sironas, Prophet Velen announces plans to build a new draenei city on Azeroth.[727] - The Darkspear tribe reunites with their old loa - Kevo ya Siti, Lukou, and Jani - and defeat Witch Doctor Tzadah, a follower of Mueh'zala.[728] - As the heroes of Azeroth begin hearing voices, Archmage Khadgar in Dalaran dispatches Alleria Windrunner to find the Dark Heart.[729] Alleria briefly returns to Telogrus Rift to help defend it from the Shadowguard void ethereals, revealing the identity of Xal'atath.[730] - Alleria then journeys to Silvermoon City to speak with her son Arator, before embarking on the hunt for Xal'atath.[731] - Anduin Wrynn, staying in Stormsong Valley in Kul Tiras with the Feldons, answers the call of the mysterious voice.[732] The War Within - 42[733] Patch 11.0.2: The War Within - Radiant Echoes are encountered across several areas of Azeroth. - As people of Azeroth receive visions and hear voices from the Radiant Song, Magni Bronzebeard try to commune with the Worldsoul but collapses.[734] After he reveals his vision about Khaz Algar, the Council of Six teleport Dalaran to the Isle of Dorn, however, Xal'atath reveals herself and summons the nerubians of Azj-Kahet to attack the city. The Harbinger then defeats Khadgar and obliterates Dalaran with the Dark Heart.[735] - Heartlands - The survivors of the catastrophe are aided by the earthen of Dornogal. Heroes and adventurers of the Alliance and the Horde start a campaign against Xal'atath and her allies in Khaz Algar. They aid the earthen across the Isle of Dorn and the Ringing Deeps. They encounter and aid the Arathi of Hallowfall and help them fight the Order of Night. Descending deeper, they aid the nerubian rebels of the Severed Threads and fight the loyalists of Queen Ansurek across Azj-Kahet and the City of Threads.[736] - Alleria manages to damage the Dark Heart at the Priory of the Sacred Flame, releasing the trapped Khadgar.[737] - Adventurers assault Nerub-ar Palace, defeating Queen Ansurek.[738] - Several Awakened earthen of Khaz Algar join the Alliance and Horde.[739][740] - More dracthyr wake in the creches of the Forbidden Reach and are welcomed by Scalecommander Emberthal.[741] Patch 11.0.7: Siren Isle - A joint expedition of Gazlowe's Greasemonkeys, Arathi from Hallowfall, and Awakened earthen from Dornogal explore Siren Isle, fight its enemies, and research the Siren Crystal.[742] - The Kirin Tor mages bid farewell to Dalaran and to the lost friends on the Isle of Dorn and discover the new plan for the future of the remaining Kirin Tor.[743] - Seasons (comic) - 43[744] Patch 11.1.0: Undermine(d) - Jastor Gallywix seizes control of the goblin capital of Undermine on Kezan, using Darkfuse Enforcement forces armed with Black Blood weapons, while also working to repair the damaged Dark Heart for Xal'atath.[745] - A rock wall in the Ringing Deeps is collapsed, revealing a mine of Black Blood controlled by the Darkfuse. Monte Gazlowe, aided by Orweyna and Renzik "The Shiv", follows the trail to Undermine.[746][747] - After Renzik is killed by Nikki the Fixer, Gazlowe rallies the cartels of Undermine in revolt against Gallywix, who retreats to his casino/fortress, the Gallagio. Xal'atath abandons Gallywix when she discovers he has given up the Dark Heart to the void ethereals, and he is subsequently killed by Gazlowe's revolutionaries.[748] Patch 11.1.5 - The Sureki, nerubian loyalists of the slain Queen Ansurek, begin attacking Hallowfall. The Arathi declare Flame's Radiance in response.[749] Patch 11.1.7: Legacy of Arathor - A group known as the "Red Dawn" rises in the Arathi Highlands under the leadership of Marran Trollbane, the imprisoned former Regent of Stromgarde. The Red Dawn seeks to uphold the ideals of the old empire of Arathor, and banish all non-humans from their ancestral homeland. Bandit attacks cause tensions to rise between Stromgarde and Hammerfall, the new home of the Mag'har Clans.[750] - The unrest forces Marran's uncle, King Danath Trollbane, and Overlord Geya'rah, leader of the Mag'har, to return from Khaz Algar. Aided by loyalists in Stromgarde, Marran escapes and stages a coup against her uncle, but is defeated in single combat by Faerin Lothar. Danath strips Marran of her name and title, and banishes her and her followers from his realm.[751] Patch 11.2.0: Ghosts of K'aresh - Azir brings the Dark Heart to the ruins of K'aresh, and installs it within Manaforge Omega to begin resurrecting the void lord Dimensius. In response, the K'aresh Trust, led by Ve'nari, relocates Tazavesh, the Veiled Market from the Shadowlands to K'aresh.[752] - Tasked by Ve'nari to defend Tazavesh from the Shadowguard and stop Dimensius' return, Locus-Walker temporarily allies with Xal'atath, and calls Alleria Windrunner and other allies from Azeroth to join him on K'aresh.[753][754] - The Wastelanders, former oracles of K'aresh led by Soul-Scribe, initially come to the aid of the Trust at the behest of Xal'atath;[755] however, they betray their allies when Nexus-King Salhadaar, resurrected by the Void after his death in Outland, calls on them to uphold their oaths to him.[756] - Locus-Walker and Xal'atath lead their allies in an attack against Manaforge Omega and manage to contain Dimensius within the Dark Heart. Xal'atath then kills Locus-Walker, reclaims the Dark Heart, and escapes.[757] Patch 11.2.5: Legion Remix - The infinite dragonflight continues their research into alternate timelines, this time focusing on the third invasion of the Burning Legion. Patch 11.2.7: The Warning - The Radiant Song gives Vereesa Windrunner a vision of a doomed Quel'Thalas, and Arator begins his journey. A new cult appears on the Isle of Dorn. - The pandaren of the Wandering Isle celebrate the Spirit Festival. Midnight Patch 12.0.0: Midnight Pre-Expansion - Leona Darkstrider continues her efforts to be trained in the ways of the Illidari, and Allari the Souleater trains the ren'dorei as demon hunters. - With the resurgence of the Twilight's Blade in the Twilight Highlands, Grand Magister Rommath and Magister Umbric lead their forces into the area to defeat the new enemies. Patch 12.0.1: Midnight Launch - Xal'atath and her Devouring Host assault the Isle of Quel'Danas with the intention of taking the Sunwell. Lor'themar and Lady Liadrin lead their soldiers in the defense of the Sunwell, and the Blood Knight Matriarch summons the Vanguard of the Light to help fight against the Void forces. While the vanguard and elven forces are eventually overwhelmed, the power of the Sunwell manages to push back the Void and holds the Voidstorm above Quel'Danas at bay for now. - The Vanguard of the Light stays in Silvermoon City, and adventurers venture into Eversong Woods to help out the elves... Future - The Deaths of Chromie (possible future)« - Anduin: Son of the Wolf (comic) (possible future)« Notes - ^ a b c The events here are based on the timeline put forth in World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn. While the novel never specifies a specific year, each event is marked by a statement along the lines of "X years past". Using these references and the starting point of -20,000 which is derived from a dialogue between Emberthal, Azurathel and Cindrethresh, stating they slept for "nearly 20,000 years", we can subtract the other time-leaps specified in the book (Book begins 10 years after Galakrond's fall in chapter 3 + 20 years [=30] for Obsidian Citadel and Vakthros in the Part 2 Introduction + 200 years [=230] until Part 2, also stated in the introduction + 5 years [=235] in chapter 9 + 50 [=285] years in the part 3 introduction) to lead to various timestamps starting at -20,285 (-20000-285). This continues (25 years in chapter 18 + 50 years in the part 5 introduction + 50 years in chapter 20 + 100 years in chapter 27.) until the end of the novel. See the references between -20,285 and -19,775 for exact quotes. - ^ There is some uncertainty. In Cycle of Hatred, Aegwynn became Guardian in -823. In Chronicle, it is unclear whether -823 is the year when Aegwynn became Guardian or when she defeated Sargeras' avatar. - ^ The events of 15-20 ADP regarding Thrall's forming of the new Horde and the liberation of the internment camps face some discrepancies in the dating. Chronicle does not specify any dates for these events, but puts them between Kel'Thuzad's fall (15 ADP) and Aegwynn's resurrection of Medivh (18 ADP). The Ultimate Visual Guide, as well as 04 and 07 timelines on the website, puts these events at 18-19 ADP. As Chronicle is the newest source of information and is as clear as mud, they are simply listed as 15-18 ADP, but take those dates with a grain of salt. - ^ A few quests mentioned that Cataclysm took place 6 years after World of Warcraft.(i.e. [5-30] Evidence Collection and [30-35] If You're Not Against Us...) However, multiple other sources - including Blizzard and Chronicle - established that the gap between World of Warcraft and Cataclysm was only 3 years. - ^ The Destination: Pandaria stories here, released between patch 5.1.0 and patch 6.0.2, all take place after the Horde and Alliance land on Pandaria. Bleeding Sun must take place before his appearance in patch 5.2.0, but after the Gate of the August Celestials open. The other three stories (The Trial of the Red Blossoms, The Blank Scroll, and The Jade Hunters) are more vague in their timeframe. - ^ The corruption of the orcs seemed to take place 1 year prior in alternate Draenor, than it did on the main timeline, as the cinematic references it as year 4 BDP for the AU, while Chronicle states it happened in 3 BDP for the MU. References - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 18 - ^ World of Warcraft: Grimoire of the Shadowlands and Beyond, pg. 150 - 151 - ^ [60] Oracle, Heal Thyself - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 19 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 21 - ^ a b [60] Covenants Renewed - ^ [60] Convoy of the Covenants - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 23 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 29 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 30 - 37 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 37 - 42 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 12 - 16 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 16 - 21 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 21 - 24 - ^ [10-30] Perfectly Pure - ^ [10-30] Too Big For His Britches - ^ Garley's Journal - ^ Outcast Hizfran says: Your face, though, came to me in a vision-dream during the last days of the Devouring. [...] 'How long ago was that?' [...] Hmmm, a hundred thousand years, perhaps more? - ^ [70] Radiant Warnings - ^ The Doom of K'aresh - ^ [80] Unwrapped and Unraveled - ^ [10-80] Veni Vidi Ve'nari - ^ The Burning Crusade Townhall: Draenei - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 42 - 47 - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 3: "Though [Galakrond] had been dead for more than 10 years" - ^ a b c d World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, part two introduction. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 48 - 54 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 54 - 59 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 60 - 65 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 5 - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 9: "For five years" - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, part three introduction: "Over the last fifty years" - ^ Scalecommander Azurathel#Quotes: Dervishian says: Did... did you ask Nozdormu how long we slept? Scalecommander Emberthal says: Nearly twenty thousand years. - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 14 - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 18: "For nigh unto twenty-five years"; "more than three centuries ago" referencing the taking of wild eggs. - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, part five introduction: "Roughly fifty years ago" - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 20: "The flights hated Talinstrasz for what he had done, and one-hundred years had done nothing to soften their hearts." - ^ World of Warcraft: War of the Scaleborn, chapter 27: "for the last five hundred years." - ^ a b c d World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 70 - ^ The Lost Codex 2018-11-03. Blizzcon 2018 Interview: Alex Afrasiabi & Patrick Dawson - Story and Systems | The Lost Codex. YouTube. Retrieved on 2018-11-03. - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 78 - ^ [10-30] Anguish of Nifflevar - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 65 - 66 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 93 - ^ [10-45] Bringer of the Light - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 80 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 87 - ^ Game Guide: World Dungeons - Dire Maul - ^ Killing Ground, pg. 7 - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg 126 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 89 - 90 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 91 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 98 - 106 - ^ [The Kaldorei and the Well of Eternity]: "Ten thousand years before the orcs and humans clashed in their First War" - ^ Dragonflight cinematic - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 112 - ^ "Moons + Explosives = Lunar Festival!" World of Warcraft Blog Article (Archive link) - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 114 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 115 - ^ Curse of the Worgen - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 117 - ^ [Exile of the High Elves] - ^ [The Sentinels and the Long Vigil] - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 119 - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia/Cenarius - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Kalimdor, pg. 53 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 120 - ^ [The Founding of Quel'Thalas] - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 121 - ^ a b c d World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 122 - ^ [60G] Rampaging Giants - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 125 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 24 - ^ Brothers in Blood - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 126 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 129 - 131 - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (Archive link) (2018-10-29). Retrieved 2021-02-22: "Chapter one was Troll Wars, if memory serves." - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (Archive link) (2018-10-30). Retrieved 2021-02-22: "At the time of the writing, it was meant for Zul’jin to be that old as far as I remember." - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 133 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 134 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 135 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 137 - ^ Game Guide/Gnome - ^ [10-35] If These Stones Could Speak - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 25 - 29 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 138 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 139 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 29 - 32 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 141 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 144 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 37 - ^ The Druids Arise - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 145 - ^ [The War of the Shifting Sands] "It has been nearly a thousand years since the 'War of the Shifting Sands.'" - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 148 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 151 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 39 - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 12 - ^ [20-30] The Etymidian - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 152 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 44 - 46 - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia: Farstriders - ^ [10-30] The Trident of Naz'jan - ^ [10-30] The Emissary - ^ Night of the Dragon, pg. 144 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 46 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 47 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 49 - ^ World of Warcraft manual, 174. "The gnomes have not had a proper king or queen for over four hundred years." - ^ [10-60] The Legend of Mechagon - ^ [10-40] Gestating Genesaur - ^ [10-40] Chasing Shadows - ^ Shaman, prologue - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 153 - 156 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 50 - ^ BlizzCon 2013 – World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor, The Adventure Continues Panel Transcript (Archive link) - ^ Rise of the Horde: "K’ure was dying, trapped in the very vessel that it had provided when it had crashed into this world two hundred years past." (at the time of young Durotan's first meeting with Velen). - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 53 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 54 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 55 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 158 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 56 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 57 - ^ Day of the Dragon, pg. 201 - 202 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 159 - ^ [15-30] Legacy of the High Elves - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 161 - ^ [Kil'jaeden and the Shadow Pact] "Around the time of Medivh's birth on Azeroth..." - ^ Arthas: Rise of the Lich King - ^ Dead link: Tweet; Archived: Archive lore tweets from loreology - ^ a b Rise of the Horde, chapter 5: Orcs come of age at 12. Draka and Durotan met and mated just after their coming of ages. - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 105 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 107 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 109 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 111 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 58 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 63 - ^ a b c d World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 64 - 67 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 68 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 113 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 68 - 69 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 70 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 70 - 74 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 75 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 75 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 77 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 77 - 81 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 81 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 81 - 84 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 84 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 84 - 88 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 88 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 88 - 96 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 96 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 96 - 100 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 114 - ^ Family Values, pg. 2 - ^ Warcraft: Orcs & Humans manual#Chronicles of the War in Azeroth - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 116 - 119 - ^ a b c d e f g h Timeline (from official site, 2007) - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 119 - 121 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 123 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 124 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 125 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 127 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 128 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 129 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 131 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 132 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 133 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 135 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 136 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 138 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 146 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 139 - 141 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 142 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 146 - 148 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 148 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 150 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 151 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 152 - 154 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 155 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 156 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 157 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 158 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 158 - 160 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 161 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 162 - 164 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 165 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 167 - 169 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 171 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 172 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 174 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 175 - ^ Warrior: Divided: "It was during the second war that I met Voldana . . . at last the war came to an end" - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 175 - 178 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 182 - ^ "That was more than twenty years ago", book was released shortly after, and references the Goblins joining the Horde (28 ADP). - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 185 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 185 - 189 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 189 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 191 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 193 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 195 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 197 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 11 - 13 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 17 - 19 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 19 - 21 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 23 - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (Archive link) (2014-11-06): "I double checked - Nobundo learned shamanism in year 10." - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 26 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 29 - ^ a b Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos Game Manual#War of the Spider "For ten long years". - ^ [Lethargy of the Orcs]: "Months passed", continuing on from [The Battle of Grim Batol] - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 119 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 32 - 35 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 34 - 36 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 37 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 37 - 39 - ^ World of Warcraft: Game Manual#Gnomes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 44 - 46 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 46 - 52 - ^ A Cleansing Fire: "Year 20. . .In the days since Prince Arthas took the fleet to Northrend" - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 53 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 56 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 57 - 66 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 60 - ^ Blood of the Highborne, Ch 3: "The following day. . ." - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 66 - 74 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 75 - 78 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 80 - ^ Harrison Jones#Quotes:: Harrison Jones says: Ahem! Well... ah, next week: "Tanaris." Starting with the excavation of Broken Pillar by Marvon Rivetseeker in Year 22 - ^ a b c d e Timeline (Ultimate Visual Guide) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 84 - 92 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 84 - 92 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 98 - 103 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 103 - ^ Fallen continues directly after the events of Shadows of Ice - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 104 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 108 - ^ Micky Neilson on Twitter (Archive link) (2013-02-20). Retrieved on 2019-06-20. “Most likely a bit before Chen joined Rexxar to take on Daelin Proudmoore.” - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 111 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 113 - ^ Thinking with Portals - A Memorandum on Proper Portal Usage, "in 24 A.D." - ^ A Cleansing Fire: "For four arduous years the paladins kept fighting" - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 114 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 115 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 171 - ^ [12] Hidden Enemies - ^ [16D] Hidden Enemies - ^ [22D] The Defias Brotherhood - ^ [5-30] A Vision of the Past - ^ [27D] Arugal Must Die - ^ Lescovar Incident quest chain - ^ Game Guide Dungeons: Blackfathom Deeps (Archive link) - ^ a b c d e f Game Guide/World Dungeons - ^ [34D] A Vengeful Fate - ^ [42D] Into The Scarlet Monastery - ^ [37D] Bring the End - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 52 - ^ [43D] Reclaimed Treasures - ^ [60D] The Lich, Ras Frostwhisper - ^ [60D] The Archivist - ^ [60D] Above and Beyond - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 116 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 118 - ^ a b Patch 1.4.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 37 - ^ Community Site: In-Game Events (Archive link) - ^ Patch 1.5.0 Patch Notes - ^ Patch 1.6.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 121 - ^ a b Patch 1.7.0 Patch Notes - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 123 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 122 - ^ Patch 1.8.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 125 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 127 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 131 - ^ Patch 1.12.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 138 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 140 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 144 - ^ Blood of the Highborne, Ch 4: "Despite the five years that had transpired since the attack on the Sunwell" - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 146 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 149 - ^ Rise of the Horde, epilogue - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 150 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 151 - ^ The Dragons of Outland, pg 1 - ^ a b c d e f Patch 2.0.3 Patch Notes - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 153 - ^ The Burning Crusade Flash site - ^ [The Master's Key] has the Auchindoun dungeons before Karazhan (raid) - ^ [66D] Undercutting the Competition - ^ [30H Daily] WANTED: Shaffar's Wondrous Pendant - ^ Adventure Guide Burning Crusade dungeons - ^ [15-30] The Fallen Exarch - ^ Isfar#Dialogue - ^ Ask CDev: Q: "Who is the arakkoa "master" that Isfar talks about? It is not Terokk…" A: "There are more Old Gods than just the ones trapped on Azeroth. . ." - ^ [70D] Into the Heart of the Labyrinth - ^ Game Guide: BC Raid Areas: Gruul the Dragonkiller - ^ [30R] The Cudgel of Kar'desh has Gruul's Lair before Serpentshrine Cavern - ^ [30R] The Cudgel of Kar'desh has Karazhan (raid) before Serpentshrine Cavern - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 154 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 156 - ^ Game Guide: BC Raid Areas: Hyjal Summit - ^ [30R] The Vials of Eternity has Eye (Tempest Keep) before Battle for Mount Hyjal (instance) - ^ [15-30D] Taretha's Diversion - ^ [25-30D] The Opening of the Dark Portal - ^ [15-30] The Caverns of Time - ^ [8-45] The Invasion Begins - ^ [8-45] Return to the Black Temple - ^ Patch 2.2.2 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 158 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 159 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 160 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 162 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 164 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 166 - ^ The Journey: "only six years have actually passed since it fell" - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 170 - ^ [The Path of Redemption]: The Alliance and the Horde were going to come en masse in response to a great plague that the Lich King was about to unleash upon them. - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 172 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 174 - ^ Fate (Legends) ends with Trag protecting Taunka'le Village from the Anub'ar, which lines up with the Borean Tundra questline. - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 185 - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 20 - ^ [20-30D] Vengeance Be Mine! - ^ Heart of War - ^ [15-30D] Death to the Traitor King - ^ [15-30D] Reclaiming Ahn'Kahet - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 48 - ^ [80H] Proof of Demise: The Prophet Tharon'ja - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 58 - ^ [25-30D] A Royal Escort - ^ Oli Welsh (Archive link) 2008-05-28. World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King: Hands On (Archive link). Euro Gamer. Retrieved on 2009-05-25. - ^ a b Patch 3.0.3 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 175 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 177 - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 62 - ^ a b Adventure Guide Wrath of the Lich King dungeons - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 99 - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 81 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 178 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 180 - ^ Pearl of Pandaria, Ch 2: "Join the fight against the Lich King!" - ^ Pearl of Pandaria, Ch 4: The emerald nightmare is growing. - ^ a b Patch 3.1.0 Patch Notes - ^ Secrets of Ulduar Cinematic - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 181 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 181 - 184 - ^ Beginnings & Ends - ^ a b c Patch 3.2.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 184 - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Northrend, pg. 75 - ^ Patch 3.3.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 186 - 190 - ^ [25-30D] Echoes of Tortured Souls - ^ [25-30D] Deliverance from the Pit - ^ [25-30D] Frostmourne - ^ Patch 3.3.2 Patch Notes - ^ Patch 3.3.5 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 190 - ^ Operation: Gnomeregan World Event - ^ Zalazane's Fall World Event - ^ Curse of the Worgen #5: "The scythe of Elune . . . it was liberated from Duskwood mere days ago" (Curse of the Worgen takes place during the invasion of Gilneas, while Dark Riders takes place before the Cataclysm reshaped the land.) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 195 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 195 - 199 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 199 - ^ [10-60] Forbidden Practices - ^ [10-60] Offensively Defensive - ^ Seeds of Faith "Dead several days. She had probably been one of the first victims of the Cataclysm, swept away by the flood" - ^ [30-35] Wild, Wild, Wildhammer Wedding - Sky'ree died before the Twilight Highlands questline, but weeks after the unrest lead to Magni Bronzebeard being encased in diamond. - ^ Prophet's Lesson: "and now... in the aftermath of the Cataclysm."; Velen sees a future vision, depicting Deathwing's victory at Hyjal. - ^ Ultimate Visual Guide, pg. 98: Vindicator Maraad's return is immediately after the War against the Lich King - ^ Blood of Our Fathers: "a blur of weeks spent responding to the many emergencies in the aftermath of the dragon Deathwing's sudden attack on the city and the world" - ^ a b c d e World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 205 - ^ DC Comics World of Warcraft: Bloodsworn Pre-Orders (Archive link) "As the Cataclysm rips through Azeroth" - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 200 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 204 - ^ [5-30] Pyrewood's Fall - ^ [5-30] Transdimensional Warfare: Chapter II - ^ Ultimate Visual Guide, pg. 105 - ^ [8-30D] Sweet, Merciless Revenge - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 203 - ^ Cataclysm Expansion Features/Azshara Q&A - ^ [5-30] Evidence Collection - ^ [5-30] A Vision of the Past - ^ [7-30D] The Defias Kingpin - ^ [10-30] By Fire Be Saved! - ^ a b Adventure Guide Classic dungeons - ^ [20-30D] The Heart of the Temple - ^ [15-30] The Battle for Andorhal - ^ [15-30] The Reckoning - ^ [15-30D] The Dreadlord Balnazzar - ^ [20-30D] Lord Aurius Rivendare - ^ a b Patch 4.0.3a Patch Notes - ^ a b Adventure Guide Cataclysm dungeons - ^ [30-35D] The Source of Their Power - ^ [30-35D] Doing it the Hard Way - ^ [30-35D] The Vortex Pinnacle - ^ [30-35D] Vengeance for Orsis - ^ [30-35D] Sins of the Sea Witch - ^ Throne of the Tides - ^ [30-35G] Followers and Leaders - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 207 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 208 - ^ [30-35D] Closing a Dark Chapter - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 211 - ^ [30-35D] This Can Only Mean One Thing... - ^ a b Adventure Guide Cataclysm raids - ^ See Traveler#Timeline. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 209 - ^ [35H] Break the Godbreaker - ^ [35D] Warlord of the Amani - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 210 - 214 - ^ a b Patch 4.2.0 Patch Notes - ^ Elemental Bonds questline - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 214 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 215 - ^ The Deathwing Raid: Interview with Scott Mercer (Archive link) - ^ a b Patch 4.3.0 Patch Notes - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 218 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 219 - ^ Madness_of_Deathwing#Closing_Cinematic: Alexstrasza says: You are Azeroth's true Guardians... And the future of this world is in your hands... For the dawning of the age of mortals has begun. - ^ a b c Steve Danuser on the WoW forums - I'm in favor of the timeskip (Archive Link) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 12 - ^ [7-30D] The Dark Shaman - ^ [10-30D] Rank and File - ^ [10-30D] Blades of the Anointed - ^ Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 79 - ^ [15-30D] An End to the Suffering - ^ a b Game Guide/Battlegrounds (2010) - ^ Quest for Pandaria, Part 4: "Aldrek and Karrig had revealed the Horde's intent to invade Theramore" - ^ Underdev#Patch 5.0 Mists of Pandaria Pre-Patch Released the Week of Sept 17, 1 week before the expansion launched. - ^ [1-20] The Suffering of Shen-zin Su - ^ [1-20] A New Fate - ^ Why Do We Fight? - ^ a b [10-35] The King's Command - ^ Bottoms Up Official YouTube description: "Moments after their encounter with Chen Stormstout" - ^ [10-35] The Art of War - ^ [10-35] The Right Tool For The Job - ^ [10-35] The Final Blow! - ^ [10-35] Last Piece of the Puzzle - ^ a b c d Adventure Guide Mists of Pandaria dungeons - ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Game Guide/MoP Scenarios - ^ [15-35] Chen's Resolution - ^ [15-35] In the House of the Red Crane - ^ [15-35] Stemming the Swarm - ^ [15-35] The Mantid - ^ [20-35] Call Out Their Leader - ^ [20-35] The Shado-Pan - ^ [20-35] Stealing Their Thunder King - ^ [20-35D] Into the Monastery - ^ a b Adventure Guide Mists of Pandaria raids - ^ [25-35] A Foot in the Door - ^ [25-35] The Sha of Hatred - ^ [25-35D] Take Down the Wing Leader - ^ [30-35] The Klaxxi - ^ [30-35] The Klaxxi Council - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 111 - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 96 - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 102 - ^ Terrace of Endless Spring - ^ [20-35] A Witness to History - ^ [90] The Ruins of Guo-Lai - ^ [20-35D] A New Lesson for the Master - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 143 - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 129 - ^ [15-35] Lion's Landing - ^ [15-35] Domination Point - ^ [15-35] A Little Patience - ^ [15-35] Dagger in the Dark - ^ [15-35] Find Thrall! - ^ [15-35] Insertion - ^ The Characters of Warcraft/Lor'themar Theron - ^ [15-35] Jaina's Resolution - ^ [15-35] Breath of Darkest Shadow - ^ See Dawn of the Aspects#Timeline - ^ Dawn of the Aspects Part 1: released 2013 Feb 19, just before Patch 5.2.0 - ^ [35] Infiltrating the Black Temple - ^ The Thunder King trailer - ^ Patch 5.2.0 Patch Notes - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 94 - ^ a b c Patch 5.3.0 Patch Notes - ^ [90] Vol'jin of the Darkspear - ^ [90] Battle of Sen'jin Village - ^ [90] Battle of Razor Hill - ^ The Strength of Steel, pg 3: "Vol'jin and the Darkspears had risen up in open rebellion against the warchief" - ^ Patch 5.4: Siege of Orgrimmar Trailer - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 141 - ^ a b Patch 5.4.0 Patch Notes - ^ Patch 5.4 - Garrosh Defeat: Horde Cinematic - ^ Over Water, pg 1: "There was a new warchief now, and there'd be a new war once he got settled in." - ^ The Untamed Valley, pg 1: "I think he is unhappy with Hellscream's fall." - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 50 - ^ a b War Crimes - ^ a b [100] Tarnished Bronze - ^ Blood and Thunder (comic), "Twenty Years before the Iron Horde" - ^ Gul'dan and the Stranger, pg 10: "Three days hence, we assemble on the mountain." - ^ Times Change: "35 years ago" - ^ Blood and Thunder (comic), "Twenty Years later" - ^ BlizzCon 2013 Art of World of Warcraft - Iron Horde (archive link). "With just two years to build an army..." "This is a two year old army at most..." - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Kalimdor, pg. 73 - ^ [10-30D] Agamaggan's Charge - ^ [15-30D] The Ritual - ^ Patch 6.0.2 Patch Notes - ^ [35-40D] Upper Blackrock Spire - ^ [10-40] Warlords of Draenor: The Dark Portal - ^ [10-40] A Taste of Iron - ^ [10-40] The Home Stretch - ^ [10-40] Establish Your Garrison - ^ [10-40] Moving In - ^ [10-40] The Iron Wolf - ^ [10-40] The Battle of Thunder Pass - ^ [10-40] Step Three: Prophet! - ^ [10-40] Establish Your Garrison - ^ [10-40] Darkness Falls - ^ [10-40] The Defense of Karabor - ^ a b c d Adventure Guide Warlords of Draenor dungeons - ^ [10-40D Daily] Bloodmaul Slag Mines - ^ [10-40D Daily] Shadowmoon Burial Grounds - ^ Strike While the Iron is Hot - ^ [15-40D] Iron Docks - ^ [35-40D] Grimrail Depot - ^ [35-40D] The Everbloom - ^ [20-40] The Battle for Shattrath - ^ [40] Reclaiming the City - ^ [30-40] Adherents of the Sun God - ^ a b [30-40D] Victory is Within Reach - ^ [35-40] Challenge of the Masters - ^ [35-40] And Justice for Thrall - ^ Kor'lok#Quotes: Kor'lok yells: Submit, peasants, to the might of the great Ogre Empire! - ^ [Artifact Fragment] - ^ Garrison Campaign - ^ a b c Adventure Guide Warlords of Draenor raids - ^ Imperator Mar'gok (tactics)#Quotes: Cho'gall draws the power of the Stones, channeling them through Mar'gok, killing him in the process. - ^ Patch 6.1 – The Legendary Quest Continues - ^ [40] Dark Ascension - ^ [40] Primal Fury - ^ Patch 6.2 – Fury of Hellfire Trailer - ^ [40] The Invasion of Tanaan - ^ [40] The Assault Base - ^ Hellfire Citadel - ^ Hellfire Citadel - Archimonde Defeat Cinematic - ^ [40-80] Vision of Time - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 88 - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter 1 2 (dead links) - ^ a b Magni: Fault Lines: "Been four years since you turned to stone." Cataclysm happened in year 28. - ^ The Tomb of Sargeras - ^ Legion: Feature Overview - ^ Harbingers: Khadgar - ^ [10-45] The Battle for Broken Shore - ^ [10-45] Fate of the Horde - ^ [10-45] The Fallen Lion - ^ [8-45] Stop Gul'dan! - ^ Amalgam of Souls#Adventure Guide - ^ [8-45] Breaking Out - ^ [8-45] Illidari, We Are Leaving - ^ [10-45] Emissary - ^ Legion Demon Invasions Preview (archive link) - ^ Dark Mirror Official Preview (archive link) - "Taking place just prior to the first demon invasions of Legion" - ^ Dark Mirror, pg 1.: "with the Legion's incursions into Horde lands" - ^ [10-45] Demons Among Us - ^ Nightborne: Twilight of Suramar - ^ Highmountain: A Mountain Divided - "I witnessed the Alliance and the Horde's counterattack against the Legion. It failed." - Mayla Highmountain, "The burning Legion is coming" - ^ [10-45] Calling of the Council - ^ [10-45] In the Blink of an Eye - ^ [10-45] Our Very Bones - ^ [10-45] Nar'thalas Still Suffers - ^ [10-45D] Eye of Azshara: Wrath of Azshara - ^ [10-45] Eye of Azshara: The Tidestone of Golganneth - ^ a b c d e Adventure Guide Legion dungeons - ^ [10-45] The Nightmare Lord - ^ [10-45] The Fate of Val'sharah - ^ [10-45D] Darkheart Thicket: Enter the Nightmare - ^ [10-45] The Skyhorn Tribe - ^ [10-45] Step into the Dark - ^ [10-45] The Underking Comes - ^ [10-45] The Bloodtotem Tribe - ^ [10-45] The Underking - ^ [10-45D] Neltharion's Lair: Death to the Underking - ^ [10-45] Greymane's Gambit - ^ [10-45] A New Life for Undeath - ^ [10-45] The Ancient Trials - ^ [10-45] Stormheim's Salvation - ^ [10-45D] Halls of Valor: Securing the Aegis - ^ [45] The Nightborne Pact - ^ [45D] The Arcway: Opening the Arcway - ^ [45D] Court of Stars: Beware the Fury of a Patient Elf - ^ [45D] Assault on Violet Hold: Into the Violet Hold - ^ WoW Blog/Legion Preview: Class Halls - ^ [10-45] Return of the Four Horsemen - ^ [10-45] Immortal Soul - ^ [45] The Invasion of Niskara - ^ [45] Enter Nightmare - ^ [45R] The Emerald Nightmare: The Emerald Nightmare - ^ [10-45] Oath of Service - ^ [45] In Defense of Dalaran - ^ [10-45] The Tirisgarde Reborn - ^ [45] Into the Oculus - ^ [10-45] Before the Storm - ^ [45] Storm Brew - ^ [10-45] A Falling Star - ^ a b United As One - ^ a b A Light in the Darkness - ^ [45] Rising Shadows - ^ [10-45] A Body of Evidence - ^ [45] The Imposter - ^ [45] The Return of Twilight - ^ [45] Allegiance of Flame - ^ [10-45] The Heart of the Dreadscar - ^ [45] Summoning the Sisters - ^ [10-45] Odyn and the Valarjar - ^ [45] Ulduar's Oath - ^ [45] The Fate of Hodir - ^ a b c d Adventure Guide Legion raids - ^ WoW Blog/Raid Preview: Trial of Valor - ^ WoW Blog/A Return to Karazhan - ^ [45] Assault on Broken Shore - ^ Patch 7.2.0 Patch Notes - ^ A Found Memento: Raising a King - ^ Anduin: Son of the Wolf: Anduin has recovered Shalamayne. "News from the broken isles" (pg 4) may imply before Argus. - ^ [45] Wailing Critters - ^ Patch 7.2.5 Patch Notes - ^ WoW Blog/Raid Preview: Tomb of Sargeras - ^ Tomb of Sargeras In-game Cinematic Finale - ^ Validated Doomsayer - ^ [45] The Deadmines Strike Back - ^ [45] Into the Night - ^ [45] The Prophet's Gambit - ^ [45] Lord of the Spire - ^ [45] Securing a Foothold - ^ [45] The Sigil of Awakening - ^ a b [45D] Seat of the Triumvirate: The Crest of Knowledge - ^ [45] Where They Least Expect It - ^ Antorus Ending Cinematic - ^ [75-78] Nightwatch - ^ [60] Acquaintances Forgotten - ^ [10-60] Audience with the Arbiter - ^ Magni: The Speaker, pg 3: "The wound burning... burning" the sword has yet to be drained. - ^ [110] Witness to the Wound - ^ [45] The Blood of Azeroth - ^ [110] The Power in Our Hands - ^ [45] The Call for Allies - ^ [40-80] A Feast for Our Kin - ^ [40-80] The Final Ward - ^ [40-80] Remember the Sunwell - ^ [40-80] The Ghostlands - ^ [40-80] Telogrus Rift - ^ [40-80] Forge of Aeons - ^ Battleground Preview: Seething Shore Now Live! (archive link) - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 124 - ^ Before the Storm, Embrace happened 5 years ago (ch. 14); Anduin is already 18 (ch. 11) - ^ Alex Afrasiabi on Twitter- "@Kynmarcher I believe we'd be going into 33 with BFA" (Dead link) - ^ a b c Christie Golden on Twitter (2018-04-05). Retrieved on 2018-04-06. “Great question! YES. "Elegy" is a novella which, in tandem with "A Good War," tells both H and A sides of the burning of the World Tree. "Before the Storm" takes place BEFORE that event. They are two thoroughly different stories.” - ^ a b c Christie Golden on Twitter (2018-04-05). Retrieved on 2018-04-06. “Someone raised a great question. "Before the Storm" focuses on Anduin and Sylvanas & takes place BEFORE the World Tree burning. Elegy" is a novella that, along with @RoBrooks13 "A Good War," depicts both sides of that event -and- has a few non-spoilery references to BtS.” - ^ War of the Thorns: Chapter 1 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 155 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 4, pg. 174 - ^ The King & The Queen - ^ [50] Cause for Distraction - ^ [50] The Banshee's Champion - ^ [10-60] Through the Shattered Sky - ^ [10-60] Stand as One - ^ [10-60] Understanding the Shadowlands - ^ [10-60] Seek the Ascended - ^ [10-53] Walk the Path, Aspirant - ^ [10-53] Imminent Danger - ^ [10-53] Follow the Path - ^ [10-53] The Arbiter's Will - ^ [10-55] The Door to the Unknown - ^ [10-58] Journey to Ardenweald - ^ [10-58] One Special Spirit - ^ [10-58] Awaken the Dreamer - ^ [10-58] The Court of Winter - ^ [10-58] The Queen's Request - ^ [10-60] A Reflection of Truth - ^ [10-60] A Royal Key - ^ [10-60] Torghast, Tower of the Damned - ^ [60] The Master of Lies - ^ [60] The Looming Dark - ^ [60] Choosing Your Purpose - ^ [60] Into Torghast - ^ [60] The Search for Baine - ^ [60] Torment Chamber: Jaina - ^ [60] Torment Chamber: Thrall - ^ [60] Deep Within - ^ [60] The Captive King - ^ [60R] Redemption for the Redeemer - ^ [60] The Highlord's Vision - ^ [60] The First Move - ^ [60] The Heart of Ardenweald - ^ [60] Charge of the Covenants - ^ [60] Untangling the Sigil - ^ [60] The Primus Returns - ^ [60] They Could Be Anyone - ^ [60] Dreadlords! - ^ [60] The Nathrezim - ^ [60] The Power of Elune - ^ Sanctum of Domination ending cinematic - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: Pandaria, pg. 6 - ^ Aberrus, the Shadowed Crucible - ^ [70] A Legacy, Reforged - ^ [70] Like Mother, Like Daughter - ^ [70] Nasz'uro, the Unbound Legacy - ^ Dawn of the Infinite - ^ [30-80] When Revenge Burns Green - ^ [50-80] Our Enemies Abound - ^ [50-80] This is the Hour of the Forsaken - ^ [50-80] Wardens' Wrath - ^ [70] Raise the Alarm - ^ [70] Urgent Exfiltration - ^ [30-80] Proof and Promise - ^ A Crown of Flame | Guardians of the Dream In-Game Cinematic - ^ [70R] Amirdrassil, the Dream's Hope: Fyrakk - ^ [10-80] Home in Time for Tea - ^ [10-80] Dragon Keeping - ^ Wowhead 2023-11-15. New Moon Ritual In Game Cutscene - Patch 10.2.0. YouTube. Retrieved on 2023-11-29. - ^ [10-80] Something Worth Celebrating - ^ [70] The Returning - ^ [70] To the Archives! - ^ [70] To Gilneas - ^ [70] Beginning a New Dawn - ^ [50-80] Reviving Tradition - ^ [50-80] Our Path Forward - ^ [50-80] Avatar of Mueh'zala - ^ [70] The Harbinger - ^ [70] Radiant Warnings - ^ A Whisper of Warning - ^ The Calling - ^ Exploring Azeroth: Islands and Isles, pg. 6 - The book is set two years after the wedding of Lor'themar Theron and Thalyssra in The Vow Eternal (year 40) and prior to the destruction of Dalaran by Xal'atath. - ^ [68-70] The War Within - ^ [68-70] Departure - ^ The War Within campaign - ^ [80] A Light in the Dark - ^ Nerub-ar Palace#Narrative - ^ [10] Who am I? - ^ [10] Stranger in a Strange Land - ^ [10] Forward, To Adventure! - ^ [80] The Expedition Awaits - ^ [80] Farewell, City of Magic - ^ The Winter Veil celebration in Seasons marks the beginning of a new year - ^ Gallywix's Notes - ^ [80] Paranoia Prevention - ^ [80] Down Undermine - ^ [80] My Top Gal - ^ [70-80] A Radiant Call - ^ [80] Trouble in the Highlands - ^ [80] Rise of the Red Dawn - ^ [80] A Shadowy Invitation - ^ [80] Return to the Veiled Market - ^ [80] The Shadowguard Shattered - ^ [80] The Tabiqa - ^ [80] Nexus Regicide - ^ [80R] Manaforge Omega: Dimensius Looms


--- [Sargeras - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft] ---
| Sargeras | | |---|---| | Title | The Dark Titan, The Lord of the Burning Legion (see more below) | | Gender | Male | | Race(s) | Titan[1][2] | | Affiliation(s) | Burning Legion | | Former affiliation(s) | Pantheon of Order | | Occupation | Supreme commander and creator of the Burning Legion | | Former occupation(s) | Champion of the Pantheon | | Location | Seat of the Pantheon | | Status | Imprisoned | | Student(s) | Kil'jaeden, Archimonde, Aggramar | | Companion(s) | The Pantheon,[3] Goremaw the Devourer (personal hound) | “The Burning Legion is but a shadow of his terrible darkness. Trust in me when I say that we have hope even if every demon who serves him comes through, but no hope if we destroy all only to have him step into the world.” Sargeras (pronounced "SAHR-gair-ahs")[5] is a titan and the creator and leader of the Burning Legion. He was once the champion of the Pantheon, chosen to defend the worlds the titans had ordered. However, while he once served as a guardian and protector, he later set out to destroy all world-souls and life in the universe, and undo what the titans had strived for ages to achieve.[6] His actions and their effects essentially made him one of the main antagonists — or as Chris Metzen called him, "the big, mega bad guy" —[7] of the Warcraft franchise, and he served as the main antagonist of Legion. Biography[] Champion of the Pantheon[] Like all titans, Sargeras was born from a world-soul maturing within a planet in the Great Dark Beyond. He was the mightiest warrior of the titan Pantheon and originally possessed the title "The Defender" and was the "noblest of all".[6] Like the rest of his kind, he was altruistic and just, unable to conceive of pure evil.[8] When the chaotic demons, spawn of the Twisting Nether, began to threaten the Pantheon's work of bringing order to worlds in the Great Dark, Sargeras was sent to battle them. Sargeras continued defeating the disorganized and incompetent demons with ease, but he also soon discovered that some demons had begun wielding the dark energies of the Void. The Defender also suspected the existence of malevolent beings far more powerful than mere demons who sought to influence the physical universe hidden behind the veil of the Void. The presence of these beings troubled Sargeras, but he nonetheless continued his work.[9] To his dismay, Sargeras soon discovered that the demons he had defeated simply returned to the Twisting Nether to be reborn in new bodies and continue to torment the worlds of the Great Dark. The Pantheon grew concerned about this development and the increase of demonic activity, and so sent the inexperienced titan Aggramar to aid Sargeras in battle. Aggramar proved a quick study and soon earned Sargeras' admiration, and became the warrior's trusted lieutenant. The two fought shoulder to shoulder against the endless demons of the Nether. This allowed Sargeras to more closely study the nature of the Nether, and by learning how to manipulate the chaotic realm's magical energies, he created a prison world known as Mardum to contain the demons he had defeated (though in Mardum, the demons were not idle; a nathrezim named Ulthalesh, in particular, ruled the pocket dimension with an iron fist, plotting his vengeance[10]). Demonic invasions became increasingly rare, and together, the two titans soon brought peace to the cosmos.[9] At some point, Sargeras had started using the enslaved demonic doomguard as hounds to police the use of arcane magics. Sacrificial magic was considered the greatest violation of life and the doomguard had been attuned to instantly punish those who delved into such sorcery.[11] Betrayal[] Sargeras and Aggramar eventually agreed to go their own separate ways in order to protect several parts of the universe at the same time, allowing them to more effectively combat the demons. It was during this time that Sargeras learned about the Void Lords and discovered their plans. Coming across a world that had been completely infected by monstrous aberrations known as Old Gods, the titan ruthlessly interrogated a conclave of nathrezim demons who dwelled on the black world. From them, Sargeras learned that the void lords had sent the Old Gods out into the cosmos to infect any worlds that housed titan world-souls, and if they succeeded, the world-soul would be twisted into an unspeakably dark creature that not even the Pantheon could stand against: a Dark Titan. Enraged at this discovery, Sargeras cleaved the planet in two, instantly killing the nascent titan it housed. He then immediately returned to the rest of the Pantheon to tell of his discovery, but they chastised him for his rash action, insisting that they might have been able to purge the world-soul of its corruption without killing it. Sargeras tried to convince the other titans that what he had done was right, and that the universe needed to be purged of life - which, in his mind, could have been already corrupted by the void lords - in order to prevent the risk of a world-soul becoming corrupted and opening the way for the void lords (in his mind, even a lifeless universe was better than one dominated by the Void, for he argued that if life had once taken root in the Great Dark on its own, perhaps it would do so again). Eventually realizing that the others would never see things the way he did, Sargeras stormed off, and never returned.[9] Birth of the Legion[] While the titans continued their work, Sargeras meditated on the fate of the cosmos in isolation. Fear, doubt, and despair overwhelmed him, and he eventually came to the conclusion that the only way to spare the fundamentally flawed universe from the void lords was to purge it all of life. Thus began the Burning Crusade. The fallen titan knew that he would need an army to accomplish this, and so he traveled to his prison world Mardum, which had become bloated and twisted with fel energies over the eons. Sargeras instantly shattered the prison world, unleashing its countless demonic inhabitants onto the cosmos and creating an explosion of fel energies so powerful that it warped his form into a horrific being of blistering hatred. In the process of destroying the prison world, the fallen titan had also ripped open a wound in the boundaries between the Nether and the Great Dark, creating a great burning maw of emerald fire that would remain an eternal reminder of the titan's betrayal for all time.[12] Sargeras then imbued the ravenous demon hordes before him with his power, granting them increased size or intelligence, before offering them a simple choice: join his cause or be destroyed.[12] While most of the demons accepted, a minority refused, instead rallying around the Dreadlord Ulthalesh. In answer to the challenge, Sargeras forged a great felsteel scythe from the fires of Mardum's destruction, using it to harvest the souls of the rebellious demons and trapping them in a new prison. Ulthalesh, strongest in will, was the last to be devoured. Sargeras named the scythe, later known as Ulthalesh, the Deadwind Harvester, after the nathrezim who had opposed him, and would over the ages bestow the weapon to nathrezim, doomlords and even demigods, only to see their spirits be devoured by the scythe as they fell.[10] With the rebellious demons annihilated, Sargeras had his Burning Legion formed. The army fell upon its first world, extinguishing several mortal civilizations and sentient species. Sargeras himself annihilated the constellar who had been assigned to watch over the planet. Aggramar, Sargeras' former student, was the first to learn of the constellar's death and arrived to confront his former master. He demanded an explanation from Sargeras, but when he realized that his words would not sway him, Aggramar challenged the fallen titan to single combat. The battle between the two raged until, in an explosion of fel and arcane power, both of the combatants' blades shattered. Heavily wounded, Aggramar retreated and informed the Pantheon of Sargeras' betrayal.[12] Nihilam[] The Pantheon and the Legion, both girded for war, confronted one another near a planet called Nihilam. Aman'Thul, the Highfather of the Pantheon, pleaded with Sargeras to abandon his mad cause, telling him of a distant world-soul called Azeroth who would one day be powerful enough to challenge the void lords. Sargeras listened closely but was unmoved. Despite their earlier battle, Aggramar then made one last attempt to reason with Sargeras. He approached his former tutor, unarmed, trying to persuade him by recounting tales of the glorious battles the two had fought. But Sargeras was set in his ways. With a howl of fury and sorrow, the former champion raised his blade and struck Aggramar down, cleaving him in two. Outraged by this murder, the Pantheon launched an all-out assault on Sargeras, but, unable to stand against the fallen titan's Fel might, soon perished as well. The fallen titan proclaimed his army victorious and set out to continue the Burning Crusade and discover the location of Azeroth for, to him, Azeroth was not the savior of the universe but the opposite, if corrupted. Unbeknownst to Sargeras, however, the titan Norgannon had managed to weave a final spell which managed to temporarily save the Pantheon's souls from the destruction of their bodies, sending their spirits hurtling out through the cosmos.[12] The Burning Crusade[] Though Sargeras had succeeded in destroying the Pantheon, much of the Legion had been needlessly killed in the battle on Nihilam. Most demons, though bloodthirsty, lacked strategic thinking, and the fallen titan could not direct his entire army at once. On the planet Argus, Sargeras found the cunning and tactically minded agents he sought — the eredar, a race of highly intelligent beings with a natural affinity for magic in all its myriad forms. In the form of a radiant and elegant being, Sargeras appeared to the eredar's three greatest leaders, Kil'jaeden, Archimonde, and Velen, and made his offer: untold power, prestige, and the opportunity to transform primitive worlds into peaceful sanctuaries in exchange for their allegiance. Though Velen had doubts, Kil'jaeden and Archimonde readily agreed. Guided by a vision from the naaru and the ata'mal crystal Velen and his followers fled, becoming the draenei. The remainder of the eredar people were transformed into hideous demons, Sargeras' fel whisperings surging through the minds of Argus' every inhabitant and drowning out their ability to reason.[12] Sargeras tasked Kil'jaeden the Deceiver to seek out the darkest races in the universe and recruit them into the Legion's ranks. Meanwhile, Archimonde the Defiler would lead Sargeras' vast armies into battle against any who might resist the titan's will. Now that his armies were amassed and ready to follow his every command, he launched his raging forces into the vastness of the Great Dark. To this date, it is still unclear how many worlds his Burning Legion has consumed and burned on their unholy Burning Crusade across the universe.[13] At some point after the formation of the Legion, Sargeras entrusted an aranasi named Brood Queen Tyranna with an artifact called the Sargerite Keystone and assigned her as ruler of the now-shattered realm of Mardum. Moreover, Sargeras offered the mighty aldrachi people a place in his Burning Legion. But the aldrachi proved incorruptible: they slew innumerable demons before their race was wiped out. Sargeras, using an Avatar, personally killed their greatest champion and seized his weapons - the Aldrachi Warblades which eventually ended up with Kil'jaeden and his loyal demon hunter.[14] Sargeras also had a personal hound named Goremaw the Devourer. At some point, the Legion conquered a new world, corrupting its leaders and killing their heroes. However, a child, burning with righteous fury for his dying world, crept into the Legion's stronghold and killed several eredar guards--and Goremaw--while they rested. When Sargeras saw his slain hound, he was consumed with rage. That world, and all who lived upon it, was scattered as ashes in the Great Dark. The dreadlord, Mephistroth, believed that Goremaw could still serve the Legion. He extracted the felhound's fangs and took them to a great demon forge on the eredar homeworld of Argus and eventually created two of the deadliest weapons the universe had ever known, the Fangs of the Devourer. These daggers could twist the air and bend light, allowing their wielders to conceal themselves effortlessly. He presented the daggers to Sargeras, who was greatly pleased. It took time for Sargeras to find someone worthy of wielding the Fangs of the Devourer. Loyalty was a concern. Skilled assassins are deceptive by nature, all too capable of betrayal. Sargeras would not abide the thought of Goremaw's legacy falling into the hands of the Legion's enemies. Finally, Sargeras found someone suitable to carry these daggers into battle. An eredar tracker named Akaari had distinguished herself in several Legion invasions, silently murdering those who suspected that the demons' promises were laced with doom. She was summoned to Argus and told of the great honor being offered to her. Sargeras promised Akaari that she would become a fearsome instrument of death, one of the deadliest creatures alive in any known realm, but at a cost of her will. If she wanted to be this living weapon, betrayal would become impossible. It was a grim bargain, but Akaari accepted it. Sargeras had his eyes on a small, militaristic world. Its inhabitants would have fought hard against a Legion invasion. Though they would have fallen eventually to direct force, Sargeras believed they might be vulnerable to fear and paranoia. This world was Akaari's first mission with her newly granted powers. She infiltrated its strongholds alone and was successful. Thus, Akaari became Sargeras' asset, loyal and unquestioning. But even though her will was gone, her guile remained. She requested that Sargeras allow her to roam the Twisting Nether for a time. He agreed, curious to see how she would further the goals of the Burning Legion. She returned to Sargeras with new skills and a new philosophy: fear was a double-edged sword, useful, but not always the right choice. An unseen assassin inspired terror, yes, but an unknown assassin inspired complacency. An enemy could not prepare to face a danger that seemingly did not exist.[15] The first invasion of Azeroth[] On Azeroth, 10,000 years before the opening of the Dark Portal, the elven Queen Azshara and her people, the Highborne, were wielding magic as their plaything. Sensing the great magical power of the Well of Eternity, Sargeras finally discovered the location of Azeroth. In order to invade the planet, he called Azshara. The Highborne queen was impressed and overwhelmed by Sargeras' great power. He used a subtle form of mental manipulation while speaking to her and her counselor, Xavius. They saw Sargeras as a god and worshiped him. Azshara agreed to grant him entrance to her world if only for a taste of a portion of his knowledge and energy. (Furthermore, she thought he would marry her.) Thus, the first invasion of Azeroth began. Archimonde and the great pit lord Mannoroth stormed through Kalimdor, ripping the world to shreds and sucking every ounce of energy from it that they could. Sargeras waited in the Twisting Nether for Azshara to strengthen the portal enough to allow him entrance, and during that time, he accomplished many things.[16] Among them, he transformed Xavius into the first satyr and gifted Illidan Stormrage with his dark magic, burning out the eyes of the night elf and covering both of his shoulders with arcane tattoos.[16][17] Then, he gave the scythe Ulthalesh to Sataiel and commanded her to reap the souls of Azeroth's rebellious denizens, starting with the area that would later be known as Deadwind Pass.[10] But, at the crucial moment for his entering on Azeroth, the night elves, aided by Cenarius' woodfolk and Alexstrasza's dragons, mustered their forces and rebelled against the Highborne in a climactic battle that destroyed the Well of Eternity and crushed much of the continent to rubble. The defenders of Azeroth paid a great cost to throw the demons back into the Twisting Nether, but in the end, Sargeras' mission had failed for the very first time. Because the portal rift into the Twisting Nether vanished in such a great display of magical power, the forces holding the worlds together ruptured, causing the Well of Eternity to implode. A massive part of Kalimdor sank beneath the ocean, and where the Well of Eternity had been before there was only a gigantic oceanic vortex, later named the Maelstrom. In the novel War of the Ancients, Krasus, Rhonin, and Brox are thrown back in time and are able to help the demi-god Cenarius and the dragon Aspects fight the Burning Legion. Once again, in this new timeline, Sargeras' first invasion of Azeroth failed. During the end of the war, Broxigar leaped through the portal and using the Axe of Cenarius crafted by Malfurion Stormrage killed many demons before catching the attention of Sargeras himself. In a last desperate attempt to buy time for his allies, Broxigar personally attacked the huge titan with the Axe of Cenarius, wounding him in his leg - an extraordinary feat for anyone as he was said to be invincible. Sargeras then killed Broxigar, however, the scratch was pivotal. When Sargeras approached the gateway, Krasus poured the combined power of his companions at the tiny wound and momentarily distracted Sargeras from the portal. Malfurion used this opening to assail the portal and destabilize it. Refusing to believe his defeat, Sargeras stepped within the collapsing portal in a futile attempt to rebuild it. It imploded, casting him in to the Nether.[18] After the Well of Eternity[] After his defeat at the Well of Eternity, Sargeras immediately planned his next method of infiltrating Azeroth. He knew he couldn't rely on a static portal; to serve a titan, such a gateway required an astronomical amount of power, and the most promising source had been destroyed in his last attempt. Moreover, the Highborne's laborious preparation and spellwork had given away his intentions, which had allowed the night elf resistance to thwart him. If he wanted to overcome Azeroth's defenders, Sargeras needed to enter the world with minimal warning. Thus he commanded the eredar to forge a tool that would wrench open rifts between worlds for only a short time, just long enough to let a portion of his soul through. Although that meant he couldn't enter Azeroth in his most devastating form, such an instrument would clear a path for his avatar to lead the Legion's invasion or carry out subtler schemes. Such an instrument would also weaken the integrity of the physical universe and threaten to collapse it, but Sargeras considered those to be only side benefits. First, scores of magi conducted dark rituals to channel countless portals into a single staff. They then projected the empowered artifact into every corner of the Great Dark Beyond, weaving it into the fabric of reality, creating a thread that could be pulled to unravel the seams of the physical universe at will. To fuel this monstrous undertaking, a hundred warlocks sacrificed a hundred demons, selecting them from among the Legion troops that had been part of the failed invasion of Azeroth. Thus was forged the Jeweled Scepter of Sargeras. Soon after the War of the Ancients, Sargeras also had a vision: the Well of Eternity imploded once again, but this time, it dragged him down to the very core of Azeroth. He was there for only an instant, but in that moment, he saw Azeroth's slumbering world-soul--and in that moment, the world-soul opened one eye and gazed at the Dark Titan. He was enraptured. Since then, the eye of Azeroth's world-soul has not been far from his thoughts. He commanded the eredar who forged the scepter to crown it with that lone, wondrous orb. Next to it, the eredar placed two nathrezim wings, a testament to Sargeras' conception of the world-soul: corrupted, demonic, and most importantly, his.[10] Sargeras and Sataiel[] In the millennia after the collapse of the Well of Eternity, Sataiel, who was still on Azeroth, grew into an over-ambitious, strong-willed, and supremely confident. She had come to Azeroth to prove herself to Sargeras, but when she saw the heights of power she could reach with Ulthalesh, she wondered whether she'd set her sights too low. She had massacred thousands, turned the Deadwind Pass into a tomb, and ripped open a magical nexus of unspeakable force. Her destiny was bright, and she needed no one's patronage to achieve it. The dreadlord Ulthalesh whispered to Sataiel from the scythe, infecting her mind. She decided to keep the magical nexus for herself, and she cast potent wards to hide it from the outside world. Then she cut off all contact with the Legion, biding her time until she and Ulthalesh had the strength to challenge the Dark Titan. When Sargeras discovered her deception, he was furious. The fount of power was his by right, and Sataiel was keeping it from him. Not only that, but his spies on Azeroth informed him that she was harboring delusions of grandeur, conspiring with the spirit of Ulthalesh to slay Sargeras. Such arrogance could not go unpunished. The upstart eredar had to be eliminated. Sargeras found his champion in Scavell, the Guardian of Tirisfal. He sent the Guardian visions of a dangerous entity lurking in Deadwind Pass, a demon awaiting the return of the Burning Legion. Scavell boldly took up the charge, hunting down Sataiel and, after an epic battle, slaying her with her own weapon. Her soul was cast screaming into the scythe.[10] Aegwynn and Medivh[] Some nine thousand years after the War of the Ancients, another Guardian of Tirisfal, Magna Aegwynn, kept a constant vigil over Azeroth, destroying demons wherever she found them. Sargeras saw that Aegwynn was a serious threat, but he also saw how she could be manipulated. The Dark Titan sent demonic agents on a great dragonhunt. The demons killed several dragons, but Aegwynn inevitably appeared to aid the great beasts. It was then that Sargeras used the Scepter of Sargeras to send his own avatar to battle the Guardian. Though Aegwynn emerged victorious with the help of the dragons, defeat had been Sargeras' plan all along; his spirit entered her body, lying in wait for centuries.[19] After Aegwynn defeated Sargeras' avatar, she interred his corpse in the ruins of Suramar, along with the artifacts that he bore. Deep beneath the sea, shielded by enchanted Highborne seals, the Scepter of Sargeras remained for centuries, its power undiminished. Sargeras attempted to regain control of the staff through Aegwynn, but the task proved more difficult than he had estimated. He could sway the Guardian in many ways, but he could not compel her to exhume his scepter from its watery grave. Something held her back, a primal instinct louder than Sargeras' whispering. She knew the artifact was dangerous, that its use risked the destruction of all things. Even possessed by the Dark Titan, she would not yield.[10] Years later, the Order of Tirisfal informed Aegwynn that her time as a Guardian was up and asked her to proceed to Dalaran to choose her successor. Aegwynn disobeyed the Order's command, deciding that only one of her own lineage would suffice. Sargeras, within Aegwynn, was slowly twisting her thoughts. She became more distant from the Council; rarely being seen by them. Sargeras amplified fears she already had about the Council. The Council had been using its powers to manipulate the politics of the Eastern Kingdoms. They believed they had the power to prevent war suffering, for the greater good. Aegwynn believed that their constant manipulations would end in disaster. She decided to not relinquish her role as Guardian, for fear that the Council could elect a new weaker Guardian they could control and manipulate. Aegwynn would eventually fall in love with Nielas Aran of the Tirisgarde, who agreed with her opinions on the council, and the two fathered Medivh to pass the Guardian powers on to. Unbeknownst to either of them, Sargeras began to corrupt Medivh from within Aegwynn.[20] Through this new vessel, Sargeras planned to recover his beloved Jeweled Scepter.[10] When Medivh reached fourteen, his powers as a Guardian manifested themselves throwing him into a coma that lasted for ten years. Medivh awoke a decade later under a facade of control, and assured the clerics and the court that he was fine.[21] In time Sargeras would influence Medivh by guiding his thoughts and emotions towards an insidious end. Eventually, Medivh would become determined to stop the Burning Legion at all costs and under Sargeras' influence would discover Draenor and its Horde. Seeing that the Horde had been abandoned by the Legion Medivh felt that it would be perfect irony to use the orcs against their (seemingly) former demonic masters. Thus bargaining with the warlock Gul'dan from his chambers in the tower of Karazhan, Medivh promised to furnish Gul'dan with the location of the Tomb of Sargeras if Gul'dan would bring the Horde to Azeroth. And so, aided on the other side by Gul'dan's Shadow Council, Medivh went to the Black Morass in the remote, southern parts of the continent and opened the Dark Portal between Azeroth and Draenor, allowing the orcs permanent access to the planet and signaling the beginning of the Age of Chaos. When the Dark Portal was opened by him, almost every creature attuned to magic on Azeroth felt ripples as the gateway flared to life. Aegwynn could not fathom what had happened, but she sensed the presence of fel magic and knew Medivh must have somehow allied himself with the Legion. Aegwynn traveled to Karazhan with the blue dragon Arcanagos to confront her son about it. The tower was crowded with nobles who were expecting a gala, and so Aegwynn entered alone at first, hoping to convince Medivh to give up his power peacefully. It was then that Medivh revealed that, as he fell in battle before her, Sargeras had spirited his essence into Aegwynn's own body like a cancer, lying in wait for her to conceive an heir as he knew she would. Sargeras later stitched himself into the fabric of Medivh's unborn body so that when he awoke and realized the power of Tirisfal he would also manifest his unholy, demonic heritage. Aegwynn was stunned as the truth set in, but she did not lose herself to despair. Instead, Aegwynn became angry and knew she would defeat Sargeras there and then, even if it meant striking against her beloved son. The battle between the two shook the tower to its foundations and sent the would-be revelers fleeing. When Aegwynn was temporarily incapacitated, Arcanagos joined in. However, despite being a blue dragon, Arcanagos was severely outmatched. Sargeras struck him down, burning him from the inside out until all that was left was bone. Her friend's death sent Aegwynn further into her rage. Sargeras may have had the full weight of a Guardian's power, but she had centuries of experience. As their duel continued, Medivh slowly gained the upper hand.[22] His original personality then surfaced back and, unable to kill his mother, Medivh instead banished her from his sight. It was shortly after this time that the mages of Dalaran sent Medivh an apprentice. This young apprentice was known as Khadgar, who in time would discover that it was Medivh who has brought the orcs upon the lands of Azeroth. During this time, Khadgar and Garona had an audience with King Llane and Sir Anduin Lothar, where Lothar was convinced of Medivh's corruption. Lothar, one of Medivh's best friends, led a troop of human forces, which included Khadgar and Garona, to deal with the crazed Guardian. During the battle with Medivh, Khadgar—magically aged by Medivh's spellwork—held Lothar's blade to the Guardian's chest, and finally ran it through Medivh's heart. The demon within him awakened at that point, right up until Lothar delivered the mercy stroke, decapitating the Guardian and banishing Sargeras into the Nether. At the same time, Gul'dan was trying to probe Medivh's mind for the location of the Tomb of Sargeras. The warlock was still deep within the Guardian's thoughts when Lothar and Khadgar killed him, ending Medivh's treachery and forcing Gul'dan into a coma.[23] Sargeras desired vengeance against the mortals of Azeroth and expected the orcs to travel through the portal and destroy them. Although the orcs did enter the portal, and eventually caused a great amount of damage to the Eastern Kingdoms, Sargeras ultimately failed in his plans because of Medivh's early death. Eventually, Sargeras wanted to shed the body of Medivh and once again enter his avatar, but he didn't have enough time to do so.[24] Although he tried to control Garona and cursed Khadgar, the apprentice stabbed the Guardian into the chest, forcing the spirit of Sargeras out of his body, and banishing him into the depths of the Twisting Nether.[25] Gul'dan's encounter with Sargeras[] The orcish warlock Gul'dan believed the Tomb of Sargeras to hold amazing power since he had been told as much by both Medivh and the eredar demon Kil'jaeden. Gul'dan attempted to claim the tomb for himself, but when he gained access to the grave, Sargeras' avatar was not there. Instead, Gul'dan found a plethora of demons that had been driven mad by their long imprisonment. The demons proceeded to attack Gul'dan but he survived the first ambush. Then Gul'dan saw Sargeras (or at least an illusion of him) laughing at him and understood that he had been a pawn, a fool. Now that he knew he would not get the Eye of Sargeras and would instead die in the tomb, he wrote his story in runes with his own blood. Shortly afterward, the demons sent by Sargeras[26] came for him and killed him, eventually using his skull as a focal point of demonic power.[27][28] Wrath of the Lich King[] Sargeras appeared as a distant voice during the Battle for the Undercity, telling Varimathras that he was a failure.[29] Legion[] Many years later, the Burning Legion launched their third invasion of Azeroth. Adventurers that approached the Tomb of Sargeras during the battle at the Broken Shore were instantly killed by the "Gaze of Sargeras", a spell followed by the message: You feel a staggering presence on the other side of the portal touch you for a moment....[30] The forces of Azeroth's only hope to defeat the Legion is to find the Pillars of Creation, mighty artifacts created by the titans of the Pantheon themselves, to close the portal inside the Tomb of Sargeras. Aware that the people of Azeroth are seeking the Pillars of Creation, Sargeras personally sent Thar'zul to lead an army of demons to Karazhan to stop them from learning more about the Pillars' locations.[31] Though he does not appear in person, Sargeras' voice is heard in a flashback to the War of the Ancients when he burned out the eyes of Illidan Stormrage and revealed to him in a vision the true might of his infinite army.[32] The Legion's full, terrifying might is fixed on summoning Sargeras to Azeroth, and they have already located the key to his return, Illidan Stormrage's body.[33] Gul'dan seeks to use Illidan's body as a vessel for Sargeras' entry into Azeroth, and so Xe'ra and the Illidari seek out Illidan's soul to return it to his body before Sargeras can possess him.[34] Class orders and a coalition of all elf factions led by Tyrande Whisperwind, Vereesa Windrunner and Lady Liadrin gathered together to back the Nightfallen Rebellion up and take the Nightwell, the Eye of Aman'thul and Illidan's body back from Gul'dan, before he manages to put a portion of Sargeras' soul into the latter. At the Nighthold, Khadgar attempts to return Illidan's soul to his dormant body. But unbeknownst to Khadgar, Sargeras has already filled Illidan's empty shell, and doing so awakens him.[35] The adventurers then battle The Demon Within. Illidan is eventually freed of Sargeras' control, allowing him to kill Gul'dan.[36] Legionfall[] As Kil'jaeden observed Khadgar, Velen, and other order champions gathered together from his Legion ship above Argus, he spoke to Sargeras about how everything the Legion had done under Sargeras' design had only given them failure to show for it. Sargeras asked Kil'jaeden if he had lost sight of his destiny and wondered if he had overestimated Kil'jaeden's resolve. An irritated Kil'jaeden claimed that he paid for his destiny with his world and that the time had come to see it done.[37] Within the Hall of Communion deep beneath Sholazar Basin, Azeroth warned her Speaker, Magni Bronzebeard, that Sargeras' coming was imminent.[38] Shadows of Argus[] When Magni traveled to Argus with the forces of Azeroth, he received via Argus' world-soul a vision of Aggramar, revived and brainwashed by Sargeras. Sargeras told Aggramar that the circle neared completion and the mortals must not stop the rebirth of the Pantheon, then ordered Aggramar to stop their incursion.[39] Later, Sargeras spoke to Aggramar as the latter watched the Coven of Shivarra torture the souls of Aman'Thul, Norgannon, Khaz'goroth, and Golganneth. Though they refused to be broken, Aggramar assured Sargeras that they would be soon. Sargeras told Aggramar that the essence of Eonar was still needed to ensure victory, and Aggramar promised that she would not escape.[40] Through the Antorus raid, one can see Azeroth being more and more covered in a fiery storm, which turns out to be the Dark Titan, seeking to claim his prize. Sargeras ordered Argus the Unmaker to rise in the Seat of the Pantheon. After the defeat of Argus the Unmaker, Sargeras was ultimately imprisoned by his kin at the Seat of the Pantheon, bringing an end to the Burning Crusade. But before he could be taken by the remaining titans, Sargeras plunged his sword into the depths of Azeroth. The wound thus formed in Silithus caused Azeroth to bleed out. Her blood would crystallize as a mineral called [Azerite], pooling up across the planet. - Aggramar speaking to Sargeras in the core of Argus. - Sargeras as a cloud above Azeroth. - Sargeras and Illidan at the Seat of the Pantheon. Appearance[] Sargeras is a huge, planet-sized being—so large that his sword, when mostly-embedded in Silithus, is perhaps the tallest object on Azeroth. Upon shattering Mardum, he unleashed an enormous torrent of fel energy that warped his very being. His eyes burst in gouts of emerald fire while fel volcanoes ignited across his body, splitting his skin apart and revealing a furnace of endless, blistering hate.[12] The Dark Titan is fully clad in a burning suit of molten, black armor, and his skin cracked with veins of magma. Wildly dancing flames surround his head and form a thick mass of hair and a sweeping beard. A pair of horns extends from his forehead and a pair of demonic wings lie on his back.[6] Before his imprisonment by the Pantheon, Sargeras could be seen surrounding Azeroth as a swirling, fiery mass of clouds. Powers[] The exact powers at Sargeras' command are unclear, though certainly formidable given his status as a titan and lord of the Legion. His power before his corruption was such that he was the champion of the Pantheon, and he demonstrated the ability to destroy entire worlds with barely an effort. After his fall and corruption, he was able to single-handedly destroy the entire Pantheon with his fel magic, the one thing titans are uniquely susceptible to.[41] He has been shown to display the following powers: - Sargeras created a planet, Mardum, and bound the souls of all the demons he fought to it. - Telepathy (able to commune with his servants, such as Mannoroth and Archimonde, from the Nether) - Illusion (can show visions and speak in a compelling angelic voice)[42] - Invulnerability against mortal weapons, and limited immunity to immortal weapons (Broxigar's Axe of Cenarius was able to scratch him, but not to any great effect, while the powers of the Demon Soul had no effect). - Ability to enter mortal bodies (remained within Aegwynn's womb for nearly a millennium) and take control of them (Medivh). - The strength of 100 dragons is merely a fraction of Sargeras' strength;[43] his strength nearly matches the power of a portal closing, and was able to cut a planet in two with a single blow of his sword.[9] - In comparison to Sargeras, Mannoroth and Archimonde were as fleas.[43] This could be a reference to either power or height. - He wields a horrific broken sword which, according to a non-canon source, is called Gorribal. - Sargeras can re-form his minions again and again.[44] - Various magical abilities (lashed out with energy at Illidan through a portal, marked him with arcane tattoos and gave him demon sight, unleashed a monumental fel storm that obliterated the titan Pantheon). Titles and epithets[] - Dark Titan[45] - Fallen Titan[17] (removed from the second book) - God of Fel and Flame[17][46] - The Daemon Lord - The Destroyer[47][48] - The Destroyer of Worlds - The Evil One[49] - The Fallen[citation needed] - The Great Enemy[50][15] of all life[51] - The Great One[52][46] - The Mad Titan[53][54] - The Ravager of Worlds[55] - The Defender (pre-corruption) - Master, Lord - Dark One[56][57][58] - The great dark god of the Nameless Void[59] Character development[] Sargeras was originally a footnote in very early Warcraft RTS lore, a fallen Daemonlord whose dark legacy was used by Medivh to manipulate Gul'dan. With Warcraft III, he became one of the primary lore villains. It was originally stated in the Warcraft III manual that Sargeras fell into despair due to the endless evil of the demonic eredar and nathrezim, and that he abandoned the Pantheon due to coming to believe that the titan's vision of an ordered universe was impossible and pointless — that chaos and depravity were the only absolutes. The origin of the eredar was heavily retconned with the introduction of the draenei in The Burning Crusade, and the WoW Magazine instead showed Sargeras fighting nathrezim, mo'arg, and infernals prior to his corruption, but his reason for betraying his fellow titans remained relatively the same. World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1 changed Sargeras' backstory once more by providing an entirely different reason for his betrayal: namely, the void lords and the risk of the Old Gods infecting a nascent world-soul. Related artifacts[] Sargeras had various weapons: - Jeweled Scepter of Sargeras — Created through an incredible effort by hundreds of Sargeras' servants, this scepter can rip open dimensional gateways between worlds.[60] It was taken from the Tomb of Sargeras by order of Ner'zhul, and was used to make the portals that destroyed Draenor. It was in Ner'zhul's possession when he entered the rift to escape his dying world.[61] Somehow recovered by the Kirin Tor and held in a vault in Dalaran,[60] the scepter eventually makes its way into the hands of Gul'dan from the time-altered Draenor, who intends to use it on Azeroth in much the same way Ner'zhul did on the original Draenor. It is stolen by a warlock from the Council of the Black Harvest, who wields it in the war against the Burning Legion. - Eye of Sargeras — It is unknown if it was his real eye or a magical artifact his avatar wielded when it was killed by Aegwynn. Illidan used it to focus magics into a single destructive force which almost leveled Northrend, but it was destroyed in Dalaran when his spellwork was interrupted by the night elves. - Atiesh, Greatstaff of the Guardian — This weapon was used by Medivh. Sargeras made a powerful demon, Atiesh, inhabit it when he possessed Medivh. The demon still inhabited the staff, even when it was shattered. He had to be killed to purify the staff. - The unnamed spear of Sargeras, wielded when Aegwynn battled his avatar. The spear is inscribed with runes that continuously bleed.[62] His Fallen Avatar can summon giant spearheads. - The sword that Sargeras wields in canonical artwork and which was shattered during his initial duel with Aggramar resembles Gorribal, but has not been given an official name. Quotes[] War of the Ancients[] - "I have decided to redeem you. I have decided that there is a place for you. I have looked into the darkness within you and found that which once pleased me. I make it the core of what you are to become and in doing so make you a far superior servant than you were. You must be reshaped, but so that others will mark in you the glory I give and the punishment I mete out, I return that by which they will know you best. - "You are strong, but not strong enough." - "The black beast has shielded himself well, even from me." The Last Guardian[] - "The time of Tirisfal is about to end. This world will soon bow before the onslaught of the Legion." - "Surrender now. I have use of your power." - "You killed a body, witch. You only killed my physical form! Killed it and hid it away in a tomb beneath the sea. But I was willing to sacrifice it to gain a greater prize. Yes, Mother dear. I hid in your womb, and passed into the slumbering cells of your unformed child. A cancer, a blight, a birth defect that you would never surmise. Killing you was impossible, seducing you unlikely. So I made myself your heir. - "You see, I am nothing but one more component in the great machine, one that has been running since the Well of Eternity was first shattered. The one thing that the original bits of Medivh and myself agree on is that this cycle needs to be shattered. Of course, I assure you, we are of one mind." World of Warcraft[] - Main article: In My Father's House#Notes - Main article: The Tomb of Sargeras trailer#Transcript - Main article: Visions of Torment#Notes - Main article: What Might Have Been#Notes - Main article: Visions of Fear#Notes - Main article: Argus the Unmaker#Quotes In the RPG[] History[] Sargeras was once a vanir titan,[63] called upon to defeat and imprison the hordes of demons native to the Twisting Nether, so that their evil would not contaminate the titans' vision of order. Sargeras went about his task devoutly for several millennia.[64] Shaken by the boundless evil and hate of demons, Sargeras began to despair of his task and gradually slipped into a brooding depression. He was unable to comprehend the nature of such pure evil and came to blame the titans for what he considered to be their flawed pursuit of a false order. Sargeras concluded that chaos and depravity were the only true forces in the universe and angrily exiled himself from their ranks forever.[64] Sargeras roamed the Twisting Nether for thousands of years, freeing many demon races that he had previously hunted down and imprisoned. He bound the newly released demons to his will and used them to construct an army of massive proportions — one that eventually became known as the Burning Legion.[64] Convinced that the titans' ordering of the universe was unnatural and ultimately responsible for the corrupted nature of the demons, Sargeras decided to undo the work of the titans throughout the universe. The only way that he could correct their mistakes was to destroy all of the worlds that the titans had shaped and brought order to so long ago.[64] Sargeras and the Legion eventually became aware of the young world of Azeroth due to the night elves' reckless use of arcane magic, and Sargeras began to hunger for the limitless energies of the Well of Eternity.[64] Sargeras' first invasion of Azeroth failed, and his armies were defeated by the demi-god Cenarius and the dragon Aspects left by the titans.[65] The second time Sargeras assaulted Azeroth, he was confronted by Aegwynn, the Guardian of Tirisfal. As Aegwynn surveyed the scene, she found the rift from which the Legion's agents had come through in the Storm Peaks. Using this portal, Sargeras entered Azeroth in the form of an avatar. It is said that this avatar was infused with a portion of Sargeras' soul which he controlled.[65][66] The Guardian of Tirisfal did not hesitate in attacking, but Sargeras held back, letting the mage destroy his physical body. However, as it died, Sargeras' spirit reached inside Aegwynn's body and hid, lying dormant for many years. Unaware of the tainted presence inside her body, Aegwynn buried Sargeras' physical body in a tomb and cast it deep into the ocean.[65] Eventually, Sargeras' spirit awoke and possessed the mind of Aegwynn's unborn son, Medivh. When Medivh grew old enough to inherit the mantle of Guardian of Tirisfal from Aegwynn, Sargeras' spirit manipulated him to use his powers to contact Gul'dan and open a portal between Draenor and Azeroth. Sargeras desired vengeance against the human kingdoms, and expected the orcs to travel through the portal and destroy the humans. Although the orcs did enter the portal and eventually caused a great amount of damage to the human kingdoms, Sargeras ultimately failed in his plans because a band of Medivh's friends recognized signs of possession in the sorcerer and rushed to kill him. As Medivh died, the portion of Sargeras' spirit that had possessed him was released and swiftly dispersed. Many believe that Sargeras' spirit yet endures somewhere, hungering for revenge against the only world ever to withstand the Burning Legion’s might...[65] Brann Bronzebeard is fairly confident that the real Sargeras never actually set foot on Azeroth, implying the real Sargeras is still around in the Twisting Nether.[66] Lending this theory further credibility is in War of the Ancients, the power of the Well of Eternity was needed to create a portal strong enough for Sargeras to attempt to enter Azeroth, the creation of which took a long time to be completed. The portal used to bring the Sargeras that Aegwynn fought was powered by a handful of demons and was created in only a few minutes. Skills and abilities[] As a former Champion of the Pantheon, Sargeras is nearly impervious to physical damage. He is highly resistant to magical attacks. His natural attacks are more powerful than other titans. Demonic influences have given Sargeras' body flames and made him totally immune to fire damage and fel damage. Sargeras' flesh burns with demonic energy, scorching everything in his path. Sargeras' body flames slowly increase the ambient temperature by up to fifty degrees in every direction for one thousand miles. The effect on natural climates can be devastating.[65] Body Flames (Sargeras' flesh burns with demonic energy, scorching everything in his path. Sargeras' body flames slowly increase the ambient temperature by up to 50 degrees in every direction for 1,000 miles. The effect on natural climates can be devastating.)[65][67] His molten armor can nearly burn your eyes.[67] Related artifacts[] Gorshalach — Sargeras wielded this sword when he was still the Champion of the Pantheon. It sundered itself into two pieces upon Sargeras' fall into madness. Sargeras reforged one of the two fragments into his current weapon, Gorribal, while the other fragment was claimed by Aggramar and reforged into Taeshalach. Notes and trivia[] - Vandel saw Sargeras in a vision destroying countless possible worlds in the infinity of the universes.[68] - It is rumored that he blessed Prince Xavalis himself.[69] - The demon Atiesh bears the title "Hand of Sargeras". - It is said that when felblood covers one's body, the individual may hear Sargeras' whispers.[70] - Before Chronicle, the titans were described as metallic-skinned giants and Sargeras as a noble giant of molten bronze.[71] - Despite The Demon Within being a fusion of Illidan's body and Sargeras' soul,[35] it still refers to Sargeras in the third-person. - According to Lothraxion, Sargeras believed that he had already defeated the Light.[72] - Turalyon states that Sargeras does not take kindly to failure.[73] - Sargeras has usually been depicted with orange-red, fiery flames. In Chronicle Volume 1 however, one artwork depicts him with a green color scheme, and the book described his eyes as burning with emerald fire and his body as littered with fel. In Legion, he once again has his orange-red flames. - Sargeras is voiced by Rick Wasserman. - According to Chris Metzen, Sargeras and his Burning Legion were based on the demon Surtur and his fiery legions from Muspelheim, a villain from Marvel Comics' Thor, specifically Walter Simonson's run on The Mighty Thor.[74] Surtur and his counterpart Surtr from Norse mythology are both depicted as giants of flame wielding an enormous sword, who lead massive armies of demons with the ultimate goal of setting the world or the universe aflame. - Sargeras' name is similar to Sargonnas or Sargas, a deity from the Dragonlance setting. Perhaps coincidentally, they both also have horns, with Sargonnas being a god of minotaurs. - Since Sargeras was nowhere to be seen following the death of Medivh, Kil'jaeden had assumed the role of acting leader of the Burning Legion.[75] This is supported by the blasphemous opening lines of Kil'jaeden's boss fight in Sunwell Plateau. However, World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2 and the various artifact backstories in Legion have him actively running the Legion in the interim between Medivh's death and the Argus Campaign. Even so, his role in [74] The Battle For The Undercity was still semi-hidden. - Sargeras appears as a legendary warlock minion in the TITANS expansion. His flavor text reads: "Formerly the Defender of the Pantheon, he became disillusioned by his mission and formed the Burning Legion to destroy all life within the universe." Gallery[] - Sargeras fighting demons in Warcraft Saga. - Sargeras and the Burning Legion in Warcraft Saga. - Sargeras lurking in the stained glass behind Medivh on the cover of Chronicle Volume 1. - Chronicle cosmology chart showing Sargeras twice. - Patch 7.3.0 art by Glenn Rane. - Sargeras preparing to strike Azeroth in Magni: The Speaker. - The sword strike in Magni: The Speaker. - Sargeras at the top of the Betrayal of the Guardian TCG key art. - Sargeras in the center of art of the titans shown at gamescom 2015. Fan art[] - "The Dark Titan" by Joel Lagerwall. Videos[] Patch changes[] - Patch 7.0.3 (2016-07-19): Added. See also[] References[] - ^ World of Warcraft: Ultimate Visual Guide, Updated and Expanded, pg. 35 - ^ Before the Storm, prologue - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 19 - ^ The Demon Soul, chapter 3 - ^ Loreology on Twitter (30 May 2014) - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: The Magazine Issue 5 - ^ Chris Metzen at MoP Launch Event (2:14:20) - ^ Warcraft III - manual, pg. 133 - ^ a b c d Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 22 - 25 - ^ a b c d e f g Tome of Blighted Implements - ^ [35] Seeking the Soulstones - ^ a b c d e f World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 48 - 52 - ^ Warcraft III - manual, pg. 135 - ^ Legion: Demon Hunter Artifact Reveal - ^ a b Blood Ledger#Fangs of the Devourer - ^ a b War of the Ancients Trilogy - ^ a b c Ultimate Visual Guide - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 105 - ^ [Aegwynn and the Dragon Hunt] - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 152 - 162 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 162 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 117 - ^ Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness manual, The History of Orcish Ascension, The First War of Orcish Ascension - ^ The Last Guardian, pg. 292 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. ?? - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 169 - ^ Tides of Darkness, pg. 299 - 305 - ^ Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne - manual, Night Elves 3 - ^ The sound file for the distant voice of the master being labeled "Sound\\Creature\\Sargeras\\WG_Sargeras_HOR01.wav". The voice is also the same as Sargeras' voice in Legion. - ^ Wowhead - Gaze of Sargeras comments - ^ [10-45] Hiding in the Stacks - ^ [45] In My Father's House - ^ Official Legion site - ^ [45] The Hunt for Illidan Stormrage - ^ a b Gul'dan Adventure Guide - Stage Three: The Demon Within (Mythic phase) - ^ Legion cinematics: Nighthold ending cinematic - ^ The Tomb of Sargeras trailer - ^ [45] Whispers of a Frightened World - ^ [45] Visions of Torment - ^ [45] Visions of Fear - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 48 - 50 - ^ Dave Kosak on Twitter - "Even corrupt, he can speak in a compelling angelic voice (as in prologue to Rise of the Horde)" - ^ a b The Sundering, pg. 324 - ^ Jeremy Feasel on Twitter: "Xavius has shown us that Sargeras can re-form minions again and again. He is a Titan, and thus, the legion is endless." - ^ The Broken Isles (Warcraft III) , Drak'Thul tale - ^ a b [10-45G5] Rin'thissa - ^ Burning Throne Felcaster#Quotes - ^ Archmage Angela Dosantos#Quotes - ^ Khadgar's story - ^ Official Cataclysm website - Lore - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos Game Manual - ^ The Demon Soul, pg. 92 (ebook) - ^ [50R] Ny'alotha, the Waking City: The Corruptor's End - Magni Bronzebeard says: Since bein' wounded by the Mad Titan, Azeroth has been cryin' out in pain. In her hour o' need, she lent you her power. - ^ World of Warcraft: Exploring Azeroth: The Eastern Kingdoms, pg. 33 - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos Game Manual#The War of the Ancients - ^ Medivh#Caverns of Time: Medivh yells: What is this? Champions, coming to my aid? I sense the hand of the Dark One in this. Truly this sacred event bears his blessing. - ^ Helm of the Burning Protector - ^ Shrine of the Great Warrior - ^ The War of the Ancients - ^ a b Legion: Warlock Artifact Reveal - ^ Beyond the Dark Portal, pg. 338 - ^ The Last Guardian, pg. 121 - ^ Shadows & Light, pg. 121 - ^ a b c d e Shadows & Light, pg. 122 - ^ a b c d e f Shadows & Light, pg. 123 - ^ a b Alliance Player's Guide, pg. 133 - ^ a b Shadows & Light, pg. 124 - ^ World of Warcraft: Illidan, chapter 9 - ^ [15-30] The Demon Prince - ^ Felblood on Wowhead - ^ Sargeras and the Betrayal - ^ A Thousand Years of War - ^ [45REWQ] Talestra the Vile - ^ The Comic Volume 1, pg. 3 - 4 — Chasing Thunder: A foreword by Chris Metzen - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia/Burning Legion External links[] | Preceded by: None | Position: Champion of the Pantheon | Succeeded by: Aggramar | | Preceded by: None | Position: Lord of the Legion | Succeeded by: Kil'jaeden and Archimonde (conjointly) | | |


--- [Burning Legion - Wowpedia - Your wiki guide to the World of Warcraft] ---
- For the former warlock honor talent, see [Burning Legion]. “In every world, in every future, the Burning Legion strode, invincible, unstoppable, dooming the universe to eternal darkness in its wake. Behind it all, he saw the looming demonic figures of its leaders: Archimonde—who was believed dead by so many—Kil'jaeden, and above all others, Sargeras the fallen titan, once sworn to guard the universe, now bent on destroying it.” - — The demon hunter Vandel, glimpsing the nature of the Burning Legion in a vision[6] The Burning Legion (simply the Legion,[7] occasionally referred to as the Legion Forces,[8] the Burning Shadow,[9] or the Great Burning Shadow,[10][11] and the infinite army[12]) is a vast, innumerable army of demons and corrupted races who seek to destroy all life. Sargeras created it with the purpose of destroying all world-souls in the universe in order to prevent the void lords from corrupting them, which would lead to the birth of a dark titan, a being of unspeakable evil that would utterly annihilate and consume the universe.[13] The Legion is responsible for the annihilation of countless species and some entire planets across the Great Dark Beyond,[14] and it transcends all universes[15] destroying their possible worlds[16] in the grand Crusade. It has thrice invaded Azeroth and was only beaten back at a terrible cost. Much of Azeroth's history — including the First, Second, and Third War — was due to the Legion's influence. It can be said that the Legion is Azeroth's nemesis, since it caused the Great Sundering of Kalimdor, corrupted the orcs and sent them to invade Azeroth, created the Lich King, and was the source of most of Azeroth's scars. Finally, it should be noted that Azeroth is the only known planet that the Legion has ever failed to conquer. History[] Genesis[] When the godlike titans of the Pantheon carried out their mission to bring order to the worlds of the Great Dark Beyond, they soon encountered a deadly threat: the chaotic demons of the Twisting Nether. To combat this foe, the Pantheon sent their greatest champion, the noble Sargeras. Though he won victory after victory over the unorganized and incompetent demons, the constant sight of entire civilizations being reduced to ash and their inhabitants warping into horrid aberrations began to fill Sargeras with a great sense of hopelessness, but he nonetheless continued his work.[17] When it was discovered that the demons Sargeras had defeated simply returned later to torment the physical universe once more in new bodies, the Pantheon sent the titan Aggramar to aid Sargeras. Together, the two were able to more effectively combat the demonic threat, simultaneously allowing Sargeras to more closely study the nature of the Twisting Nether. By learning how to manipulate Nether energies, the titan champion crafted a prison world known as Mardum to contain the demons he had defeated and prevented them from reforming after death. Soon, Sargeras and Aggramar brought peace to the cosmos and decided to split up to more effectively fight their foe. It was during this time that Sargeras came across a world smothered in Void energies and infested by horrors known as the Old Gods. By ruthlessly interrogating a conclave of demonic nathrezim who had come to dwell among the aberrations, Sargeras learned the full plans of the malevolent void lords. By hurling the Old Gods out through the universe, the void lords hoped to corrupt slumbering titan world-souls and transform them into unspeakably dark creatures that would be able to consume all matter and energy in the universe, bringing all of creation under the void lords' will. This horrified Sargeras so much that he instantly killed the nathrezim before cleaving the infested planet in two with his blade.[17] When he returned to the Pantheon to tell of his discoveries, Sargeras was harshly chastised by his fellow titans. They argued that they would have been able to save the world-soul had Sargeras not acted so rashly. In response, the champion tried to argue that existence itself was flawed and that it had to be purged completely to prevent any chance of the void lords' plans coming to fruition (in his mind, even a lifeless universe was better than one dominated by the Void, for he argued that if life had once taken root in the Great Dark on its own, perhaps it would do so again), but once he realized that the Pantheon would never see things the way he did, Sargeras stormed off into isolation.[17] While the titans carried on their work, Sargeras meditated in a distant corner of the Great Dark. Fear and doubt led him to the final conclusion that to save the universe, it had to first be purged in fire. Sargeras knew that to accomplish this, he would need an army, and so he returned to the only place where he knew he'd find one: Mardum. The fallen titan tore the prison world asunder, unleashing countless demons and an explosion of fel energy so great that his very form became warped and twisted. The former defender empowered the demons he had unleashed, granting them increased stature or intelligence, and then gave them a simple choice: follow his commands, or be permanently destroyed. It was not a difficult choice.[18] When the newly-formed Burning Legion set upon its first planet, Sargeras himself killed the constellar charged with watching over it. Aggramar was the first to learn of the watcher's demise and confronted Sargeras in a duel that ended with both of the titans' blades being broken. Heavily wounded, Aggramar returned to the Pantheon to inform them of Sargeras' betrayal and transformation. Girded for war, the Pantheon met the Legion near a world called Nihilam. Though both Aman'Thul and Aggramar tried to plead with Sargeras, the former by telling him of a promising world-soul called Azeroth and the latter by recounting tales of their glorious battles, the fallen titan was set in his ways. With a single stroke of his shattered blade, Sargeras nearly cleaved Aggramar in half and then launched an apocalyptic battle against the Pantheon, a fight which ended when the corrupted champion unleashed an enormous fel storm that consumed the Pantheon's bodies (though, unbeknownst to the Legion, the titan Norgannon managed to save the titans' souls from destruction with a final spell). Sargeras declared his Legion victorious and set out to find Azeroth before the void lords did.[18] The battle at Nihilam had shown Sargeras that though his demon servants were ruthless and bloodthirsty, they lacked discipline and strategic thinking. Thus, he decided to recruit the highly intelligent eredar of Argus to his cause. The eredar were ruled by a wise and powerful triumvirate, consisting of Archimonde, Kil'jaeden and Velen. Though Sargeras managed to convince the former two to serve him, transforming most of Argus' inhabitants into demonic beings, Velen and his followers, known forever after as draenei or "exiled ones", escaped under the guidance of the divine naaru. Nevertheless, the Legion's ranks continued to swell with new races, such as the doomguard and shivarra, and in the coming ages countless worlds were erased from existence by the Legion.[18] At some point, the Burning Legion attacked Maldraxxus, a realm of the Shadowlands. Though they were repelled, it came at a terrible cost for the armies of the necrolords.[19] The first invasion[] - Main article: War of the Ancients Many thousands of years ago (10,000 years before the First War)[20] the Burning Legion became attracted to the world of Azeroth due to the continued experiments on the Well of Eternity by the Highborne elves. The fallen titan hoped to use the sorcerers and their great magic to expedite the Legion's journey to Azeroth. Without a suitable gateway, he knew that traveling to the world would take ages. Thus, much as he did on Argus, Sargeras reached out to the Highborne and capitalized on their hubris. Lord Xavius was the first of the Highborne to hear Sargeras's call. The power-hungry Xavius quickly brought Sargeras to Queen Azshara's attention. The fallen titan promised to grant the night elf queen and her servitors unfathomable power, thereby allowing them to remake Kalimdor into a paradise. Sargeras requested only that Azshara and her followers summon his agents into the world of Azeroth so that they could give the Highborne this power.[21] Enthralled by Sargeras's might, Azshara and her Highborne used the Well of Eternity's energies to bring the Legion minions into Azeroth. Waves of demonic warriors flooded out from the queen's palace, murdering every night elf in their path save for their Highborne allies. Led by likes of Mannoroth the Destructor, Hakkar the Houndmaster, and Archimonde the Defiler, the Legion stormed across the Kaldorei Empire in a tide of death and destruction. Blazing infernals tore through the skies, shattering night elf cities, while thousands of bloodthirsty doomguard and ravenous felhounds reduced Kalimdor's tranquil woods to smothering green embers. War, the likes of which no mortal empire had ever witnessed, had come to Azeroth. A night elf resistance force was formed by a noble named Kur'talos Ravencrest to stand against the Legion's furious onslaught. Among these brave defenders were Malfurion Stormrage, his sorcerous twin, Illidan, and the beautiful priestess whom both brothers loved dearly, Tyrande Whisperwind. Though the resistance initially suffered many defeats against the Legion, the night elves did make gains. Malfurion himself delivered one of the most decisive blows against the Legion and its Highborne allies. From the depths of the Emerald Dream, he unleashed his druidic magics upon Xavius, striking him down. Despite this setback and the bravery with which the resistance fought, more and more demons spilled into Azeroth through the Highborne's portals. The Legion also bolstered its numbers with a new breed of demons, born from denizens of Azeroth itself. The first of these abominations was Xavius. Sargeras had warped the defeated Highborne's body into a twisted demonic visage of jagged horns and cloven hooves. This new form became known as a satyr, and it would mark Xavius as an eternal servant of the Legion. At Sargeras's bidding, he set out to curse of the many his fellow Highborne, transforming them into new satyrs as well.[22] As the Legion's numbers swelled and the War of the Ancients progressed, Malfurion realized that the night elves could not prevail alone. He convinced Tyrande and Illidan to accompany him to the tranquil Moonglade near Mount Hyjal, where they beseeched Cenarius for aid. The great demigod agreed to rally the mighty Wild Gods against the Legion, but they were unpredictable beings, unaccustomed to fight as one. Thus spurring them into action would take time, a luxury that night elves did not have. While Cenarius gathered the Wild Gods, Malfurion called on the mighty Dragon Aspects to defend Azeroth. Led by Alexstrasza the Life-Binder, the dragons convened at their ancient meeting ground of Wyrmrest Temple to discuss how to hold back the Legion's invasion. It was during one of these gatherings that Neltharion the Earth-Warder proposed a solution. He convinced his fellow Aspects to sacrifice a portion of their power and infuse it into the Dragon Soul, a singular artifact of his design. The weapon, he claimed, would focus their powers and scour the Legion from the face of Azeroth. Amid a furious battle between the Legion and the night elf resistance, the five dragonflights made their final assault against the demons. Working in unison with his comrades Neltharion unleashed the full might of the empowered Dragon Soul and utterly decimated the Legion. Unbeknownst to the other Aspects however Neltharion had fallen prey to the whispers of the Old Gods and thus the dragons and night elves were unprepared when Neltharion turned the weapon against them soon after. The betrayal shattered the united of the dragonflights, nearly killing all of the blue dragonflight and robbing Azeroth of one its greatest defenders when it needed it most.[23] Neltharion himself would be transformed by the powers of the now christened Demon Soul and take the name Deathwing. Deathwing's betrayal struck a terrible blow to the night elves' morale and, worse, Illidan had mysteriously gone missing. Unbeknownst to the resistance, Illidan had decided to strike out on his own, incensed by remaining in his brother's shadow and that Malfurion had claimed the heart of Tyrande Whisperwind, who both brothers desired. When Illidan confessed his love, Tyrande rejected him, convincing him that she intended to take Malfurion as her mate. In the wake of this bitter rejection, dark thoughts plagued Illidan. Unbeknownst to the sorcerer, the satyr Xavius was subtly twisting his mind and fanning the flames of his despair. With mounting discontent, Illidan left the resistance and joined the Legion and against all odds, secured an audience with Sargeras himself. Blessed by Sargeras with exceptional powers, Illidan would venture and steal the Dragon Soul from Deathwing, delivering it to the Highborne, who planned to use it to open a massive gateway for the Legion within the heart of the Well of Eternity.[24] Around this time, the Highborne of Suramar, who had watched as their city was used by the cunning nathrezim as an experiment in the creation of an undead army, responded to an attempt by the Legion to create a second portal in the depths of the Temple of Elune. Using the Pillars of Creation, the court of the Grand Magistrix Elisande sealed the tomb, and proceeded to create a massive barrier surrounding the still intact sections of the city, sealing themselves off from the conflict.[25] The Legion delivered many crushing defeats to the night elf resistance, but the resistance refused to give up as it rallied around Jarod Shadowsong and secured new allies such as earthen, tauren, furbolgs, Highborne dissidents led by Dath'Remar Sunstrider, and at long last the Wild Gods and their forces which emerged to combat the Legion. With their allies in arms, the resistance launched a desperate assault against Zin-Azshari itself. The resistance stormed the broken capital and clashed with the Legion's seemingly numberless ranks. The cost was horrific. Thousands upon thousands of demons fell, but so, too, did many of Azeroth's mighty defenders. The Legion's bloodletting warriors even overwhelmed a number of the Wild Gods. One by one, these primordial creatures succumbed to the poisoned black blades and fel powers wielded by the demons. With each death, the forest atop Hyjal shivered, and the winds howled in sorrow. As the titanic battle raged around Azshara's capital city, Malfurion and Tyrande journeyed to the Well of Eternity's shores with a small, elite force. They hoped to reclaim the Dragon Soul and prevent the Legion from using its power. Malfurion and his allies were joined by Illidan, who claimed his allegiance to the Legion had been a ruse to learn of their ways. Although suspicious, Malfurion accepted Illidan's aid, for he had discovered that the Well of Eternity had become a colossal portal - a direct gateway for Sargeras himself to enter Azeroth,[26] as Azshara waited in anticipation for his arrival. As the impossibly huge shadow of the dark titan drew ever closer to the Well's raging surface, the delusional queen had gathered the most powerful of her Highborne followers, linking their magics together in one focused spell to be able to create a gateway large enough for Sargeras to enter. Realizing that no standing army, no matter how vast, could withstand the terrible might of Sargeras, Malfurion knew the only hope for victory would be to destroy the Well of Eternity itself. Stealing the Dragon Soul, Malfurion drew upon its power to disrupt the Highborne's carefully crafted spellwork and shattered the connection between the Legion and Azeroth. With their connection broken, Sargeras and most of the Legion's ranks were ripped back into the Twisting Nether by the energies of the collapsing Well of Eternity. The resultant catastrophic explosion shattered the earth and blotted out the skies. This Great Sundering would change the geography of Azeroth forever, and Legion remnants stuck on the planet would eventually rally around Xalan the Feared and strike against the fledgling new night elf government, but would ultimately be defeated in the War of the Satyr. [] In the following millennia, in the growing human societies of Azeroth, there were legends among the populace of the First Days, where demons roamed free and great heroes arose to drive them out. Knowing the real truth, the Kirin Tor of Dalaran forbade demonology - any attempt to summon demons were to be found and stopped at once, often by force. As such demons had a limited public impact on the people of the Seven Kingdoms, mostly existing through rumors and folk legends. Most situations involving demon worship ended up taken care of by local authorities, with individuals such as venal farmhands and greedy merchants committing sacrifices and other foul acts in the name of some old demon whose name they couldn't even properly pronounce after hearing their whispers in their sleep.[27] Real ceremonies involving demon summoning and fel spells did happen, but they were secretly neutralized by the efforts of the Kirin Tor and the Council of Tirisfal. Sargeras' return[] - Main articles: Aegwynn and the Dragon Hunt, The Song of Aegwynn Within the icy lands of Northrend, Legion agents emerged and began hunting errant blue dragons, feeding on their potent arcane energies. The Guardian Aegwynn discovered and sought the aid of the dragons to combat the threat. Led by Alexstrasza the Life-Binder, several of the dragonflights agreed to fight at the Guardian's side. Together, they staged on ambush near the gigantic skeletal remains of Galakrond. The demons fell into Aegwynn's trap. As a blizzard tore over the terrain, the Guardian and her winged allies overwhelmed the Legion's minions. Yet neither Aegwynn nor the dragons expected what came next. The skies of Northrend churned and darkened. A monstrous demonic form emerged upon the battlefield: Sargeras, ruler of the Burning Legion. This was only an avatar of the demon lord, a tiny portion of Sargeras's vast cosmic power. Yet he nonetheless radiated great strength and fury. He unleashed his terrible might on Aegwynn, intending to destroy the Guardian who had thwarted his agents for so long. Aegwynn did not hesitate to fight back. She summoned her powers and brought them to bear against Sargeras. The battle that followed was the most difficult Aegwynn had ever fought. In the shadow of Galakrond's gargantuan remains, Sargeras and the Guardian called down the fury of the heavens. Their attacks tore the darkened skies asunder and scarred the icy crusts of Northrend. A storm of magic engulfed the region and held even the mighty dragons at bay. With a final relentless flurry of spellwork, Aegwynn defeated her foe. Though drained from the effort, she was victorious. Or so it seemed, for when Aegwynn struck Sargeras down, he had transferred his spirit into her weakened body. There, a silver of Sargeras's undying malevolence would remain, lurking within the depths of her soul. Unaware of the dark presence hidden deep within her, Aegwynn gathered the Avatar and sealed it away in the hopes that his remains would lie undisturbed until the end of time.[28] The second invasion[] - Main article: second invasion For years, since their defeat at the hands of Malfurion Stormrage, the Legion had watched and waited for the moment to be right for a second attempt to conquer Azeroth. Kil'jaeden was given orders to plan the second invasion of Azeroth and was unwilling to take any chances on the Legion's success. He decided that a new force would be necessary in order to weaken the defenses of Azeroth before the Legion's main invasion force arrived. The doom of Draenor[] For millennia, Kil'jaeden's scouts searched the Nether for the draenei, finding and destroying the worlds they had settled on, but they always managed to escape. Then, one day, Kil'jaeden's favored servant, Talgath, stumbled upon a world that showed signs of the draenei's magic. Though they initially assumed it was just another one of the planets the draenei briefly stopped upon,[29] further investigations quickly discovered that the draenei had actually settled there, even going so far as to give it an eredun name: Draenor, meaning "Exiles' Refuge". There also resided a race of shamanistic beings called orcs. Intrigued by their potential, Kil'jaeden realized that they were exactly what he was looking for and thus sought an agent of the orcish race to follow his will. Though Kil'jaeden found many suitable candidates, none held as much potential as Gul'dan.[30] Gul'dan was born crippled, weak and deformed, which made him a target for constant mockery and abuse ever since his childhood. He knew that he was meant for more than his clan would ever allow of him, and he hated them for it. He used the hate and bitterness he felt as a way to keep going. One day, the other clan members grew so tired of the runt's refusal to accept his place in the clan that they beat him repeatedly in an attempt to rid themselves of him once and for all. As the chieftain was about to beat him again, the elderly shaman of the clan stopped him, saying that he had tried and failed to help Gul'dan find his place in the clan. Laying a hand on Gul'dan's shoulder, the elder said, not unkindly, that there was nothing more he could do for him, but that he had always believed there was greatness within him. He then advised the runt to seek out the Throne of the Elements, for perhaps there he would find his destiny. At first Gul'dan eventually followed the advice, only to be rejected by the furies who sensed the darkness and fury within his heart. It was at his lowest that Kil'jaeden spoke to Gul'dan, promising power and godhood in exchange for Gul'dan helping the Burning Legion turn the orcs as a weapon to destroy the draenei. Gul'dan quickly agreed, for he only held disdain for his people. Kil'jaeden instructed his new servant in the ways of fel magic. The demon lord knew that these energies would physically change the orc or even draw the draenei's attention, so he took steps to hide Gul'dan new abilities. Kil'jaeden taught the orc how to mask his powers, and he ordered him to use fel magic only when absolutely necessary. Gul'dan took to the volatile power faster than expected, reveling in the destructive might at his fingertips.[30] Knowing that Gul'dan couldn't serve as the figure they needed to forged the orc clans into an army, Kil'jaeden ordered Gul'dan to ally with someone who could inspire or lead the orc race. After destroying his former clan (in order to ensure that no one knew his past) Gul'dan would join the Shadowmoon clan, which was under the rule of Ner'zhul. In time, Gul'dan would earn Ner'zhul's trust and became the elder's shamanic apprentice. Under the guise of the orcs' sacred ancestors, Kil'jaeden tricked the shamans of each clan—including their most respected leader, the elder shaman Ner'zhul—into thinking that the draenei were plotting against the orcs.[31] Soon, the clans began to launch successful skirmishes and raids against the draenei, believing it to be their ancestors' will that they be exterminated. However, plans faltered when Ner'zhul traveled to Oshu'gun, was shown the truth about his new patron, and attempted to undo his actions. Kil'jaeden, however, was already aware of Ner'zhul's actions and stripped the elderly shaman of his power, and Gul'dan taught his warlock magics to other orcs, creating the Shadow Council to secretly rule over them. Eventually, as the elemental spirits refused to grant their powers to the shaman, these demonic powers would overtake the orcs. After proving the orcs' ability to fight the draenei, Mannoroth's blood was given to the orcs to drink, and they degraded into a horrible bloodlust. As both a test of his new minions and as a revenge to his wayward brethren, Kil'jaeden ordered Gul'dan to finish the slaughter of the draenei in one climactic battle at Shattrath City. The attack was a brutal massacre, with much of Shattrath being destroyed. To all appearances, Kil'jaeden's pawns had finally triumphed over the draenei. Kil'jaeden was relatively pleased with the Horde's destruction of the draenei, as was Sargeras who viewed the Horde as the perfect army to weaken Azeroth and thus ordered Kil'jaeden to cut all communication with them. Sargeras wanted the orcs to be so desperate that they would anything to survive, even if that meant journeying to another world.[32] First and Second wars ADP[] The orcs attempted to invade Azeroth twice through the Dark Portal.[33][34] However, the natives of the planet formed together into an alliance led by the humans, fought back with unexpected determination, and casualties were high on both sides. At the end of the Second War, the Alliance of Lordaeron had defeated the orcs and their homeworld of Draenor was destroyed by Ner'zhul's attempt to escape into another dimension. The remaining orcs were rounded up and placed in various internment camps by the Alliance. After the defeat of the orcs, Kil'jaeden determined to create a new force, one that would succeed where the orcs had failed. To this end, he captured Ner'zhul and remade him as the Lich King. Trapping his essence in the Frozen Throne, a large block of ice, Kil'jaeden hurled the Lich King to Azeroth, where he crashed on the frozen continent of Northrend. The Lich King's new mission was to prepare Azeroth for subjugation through the release of a Plague of Undeath. Thus, the Scourge was born. Third War[] Where the orcs had failed the Scourge succeeded impressively. Within months the Eastern Kingdoms were in disarray. Each soldier or townsfolk who fell to the Scourge was reborn as an undead minion of the Lich King. Finally, the time for the Legion's return was nigh. Servants of the Scourge were able to summon Archimonde himself to lead the assault... with him came the demons of the Legion. The second invasion had truly begun. The forces of the Legion swept across the Eastern Kingdoms and soon reached the shores of Kalimdor, home of their old enemy, the night elves. The Legion chose as its main goal the consumption of the World Tree on Mount Hyjal, which granted immortality to the night elves, and to seize the Well of Eternity to form a powerful gateway for the Legion.[35] At the final hour, an alliance of humans, orcs, and night elves fought desperately to hold back Archimonde and the legion while Malfurion Stormrage performed a desperate druidic ritual upon the World Tree itself. Finally, Malfurion gave the signal that he was ready and the Legion was allowed to reach their goal...the World Tree stood exposed to Archimonde. As the demon embraced the tree and began to feed upon its magics, Malfurion's spell took hold. The World Tree released all of its energy into Archimonde at once, destroying both the World Tree and the demon. The ensuing explosion destroyed the tree and laid waste to Hyjal Summit. The Legion had been defeated once again but at the cost of the night elves' immortality. With Archimonde finally defeated, Kil'jaeden assumed complete control of the Legion. Aftermath of the Third War[] An army of humans, dwarves and blood elves arose, the Alliance resistance under the leadership of Lord Garithos and Kael'thas Sunstrider.[36] The Alliance resistance fought back against the Scourge and the Burning Legion. They managed to retake Dalaran[37] and fought against the undead in Silverpine Forest[38][39] and Alterac Mountains.[36] Kalimdor[] The Majority Satyr groups are still loyal to the Burning Legion and have stayed on Kalimdor waiting for the return of their dark masters. The remains of the Legion itself can be found in the region of Felwood where demons of all varieties can be found, including a few corrupted species such as furbolgs. The Legion also has many still loyal orcish warlocks of the Burning Blade clan hiding in Durotar and even Orgrimmar itself. Lordaeron[] Although the Alliance resistance suffered a great loss with the blood elves, they continued fighting against the Scourge. However, they were not a serious threat to the Burning Legion. Rather, the dreadlords Balnazzar, Detheroc, and Varimathras who were in charge of the Scourge were impatient for orders from Archimonde and ensured that the Scourge was ready for action, ignorant of the death of their leader. Soon after, Arthas returned to Lordaeron's Capital City. He told the undead leaders that the city was now his and that he wouldn't require the dreadlords' services to watch over it. When Balnazzar retorted that the Scourge belonged to the Legion, Arthas replied that their masters had been defeated and that the Burning Legion was "undone." He then tried to slaughter the dreadlords but they managed to escape and warn Arthas of their inevitable retribution.[37] Later, the dreadlords found out that the Lich King was weakening, and together with Sylvanas Windrunner planned to overthrow Arthas.[40] Luckily for the Scourge, Arthas escaped the Capital City and Sylvanas's assassination attempt was thwarted by Kel'thuzad.[41] Soon after Varimathras invited Sylvanas to join the dreadlord's new order, Sylvanas however had no intention of losing her freedom again denied the offer and knew it was only a moment of time before she would be attacked. Using her sister banshees Sylvanas possessed Blackthorn, Mug'thol, Snarlmane, and possibly the Murloc Puddle Lord to bloster her forces and not only did she destroy the attacking undead, she even "turned" Varimathras to her side.[42] Soon after the future forsaken killed Detheroc and acquired an ally in the freed Garithos.[43] The banshee and her forces laid siege to Balnazzar's base, which he had fortified within the city ruins. Balnazzar then found himself attacked from both sides by Sylvanas and Garithos. Though he was armed with demons and had made many threats, Balnazzar's forces were defeated.[39] Sylvanas, Varimathras, and Garithos approached Balnazzar. Sylvanas ordered Varimathras to kill his brother as a testament of his loyalty to her. Varimathras was reluctant. Killing another nathrezim was forbidden but Sylvanas was adamant. Balnazzar was sure that Varimathras would never take that final step. He was wrong. Varimathras then killed Garithos on Sylvanas' orders.[39] With all their enemies dead, Sylvanas made a proclamation to Varimathras. They would rule the Plaguelands as the Forsaken, and would stake out their own destiny, where none would get in their way.[39] Although Balnazzar succumbed to Sylvanas's forces, he had not been destroyed. He used the last of his power to flee into the Plaguelands.[44] Later, Balnazzar killed and possessed Saidan Dathrohan's body and began using the Scarlet Crusade.[45] Outland[] - Main article: Magtheridon's Forces Magtheridon still ruled Outland after the Legion's defeat, but, with the help of the escaped blood elves, Illidan Stormrage stormed his citadel and claimed Outland for his own.[46] Although the pit lord was chained and his forces are now part of Illidan's forces, there are still numerous Legion strongholds over the planet and the Cabal, cultists of the Shadow Council, are trying to provide an advantage to their demon masters. The draenei are resisting the Legion, even a group led by Akama had to join Illidan to defeat Magtheridon. Stormwind[] The Burning Legion in the Blasted Lands were under the command of Lord Kazzak. Thanks to the efforts of Razelikh the Defiler the Burning Legion bolstered its ranks with Grol the Destroyer and his Dreadmaul ogres, Lady Sevine, and Archmage Allistarj. This sect of the Legion also includes Ilifar, the only known death knight who sided with the Legion. Attempted invasion[] Through the Dark Portal[] After Illidan's failure to destroy the Frozen Throne, Kil'jaeden sent forces to Outland to destroy him. However, Illidan's forces proved to be equally as powerful and the Legion has so far been unable to gain revenge. Kil'jaeden thus decided to trick the people of Azeroth into getting rid of Illidan in his stead. Led by Highlord Kruul, the Legion opened the Dark Portal again and sent troops into Azeroth. The Argent Dawn managed to hold the area surrounding the portal until reinforcements from the Alliance and Horde arrived.[47] After that, the Azerothian resistance pressed on and managed to drive the demons back into Outland where they fought at The Stair of Destiny.[3] Kil'jaeden's plan worked, and the Alliance and Horde would eventually kill Illidan for him. The Alliance and Horde got to the middle of Hellfire Peninsula, where the Horde established Thrallmar[48] and the initial Expeditionary Force of the Alliance reinforced Honor Hold.[49] However, a Pit Commander and more Legion forces blocked the reinforcements of both factions, and they stood together to fight in The Stair of Destiny[48][49] for a long time.[3] Lieutenant General Orion sent an Horde adventurer for reinforcements of Thrallmar; after the notice General Krakork sent out what forces he could.[50] The Legion stationed dreadlords in Felspark Ravine, but the Alliance[51] and Horde defeated them, their imps and infernals.[52] The Alliance and Horde finally managed to destroy the portals, defeating the Legion's forces by ground[53] and by air.[54][55][56] Although the Burning Legion continued to produce fel reavers in Forge Camp: Mageddon, the Alliance and Horde detected this and sent adventurers[57] that defeated this force and destroyed the fel reavers.[58][59] After the defeat of the fel reavers they aimed at Thrallmar with fel cannons, but both Alliance and Horde destroyed the cannons.[60][61] The final Legion's base, commanded by Warbringer Arix'Amal, still housed warp-portals from which they were drawing reinforcements, but the Alliance located the base[62] and both Alliance and Horde sent adventurers which destroyed the portals and defeated the Legion in Hellfire Peninsula.[62][63] Activities in Outland[] Doom Lord Kazzak was the commander of the Burning Legion in Outland; he resided in the Throne of Kil'jaeden.[51][52] Although the Burning Legion in Hellfire Peninsula was defeated, there was a presence through all other zones of Outland with the exception of Zangarmarsh. In Terokkar Forest the Shadow Council was still active; there were many cultists, who were part of a branch called the Cabal. In Blade's Edge Mountains the Legion had accomplished several things: - They sent imps, fire elementals and basilisks to defile Skald, causing the destruction of the living places for many ancients[64] and the death of most of them.[65] - In the Bladed Gulch, they used Fel Corrupters to corrupt the creatures of the land. Those creatures became Felsworn and the Cenarion Expedition fought against them.[66] - At Forge Camp: Anger,[67] the Fel Corrupters used Felsworn Gas Masks[68] to communicate with their masters.[69] The leader of these Fel Corrupters was called Doomcryer.[70] The Cenarion Expedition sent adventurers that deceived the masters and caused the killing of many mo'args[70] and even the leader Doomcryer.[71] - The Legion also controlled Death's Door, one of the portals that connected to the Twisting Nether that was closed by Illidan,[72] and two warp-gates.[73] Evergrove Druids and some adventurers managed to destroy the warp-gates[74] and defeat Baelmon the Hound-Master, who had kept the portal functioning.[75] In Netherstorm the main activities were of the blood elves allied with the Legion, the Sunfury, with mainly the forces outside of Tempest Keep and other groups inside of it. The demons in the zone were led by the eredar Socrethar[76] and did several things: - A group of demons took control of the Arklon Ruins to make an excavation, and they were led by the shivarra Ekkorash the Inquisitor.[76] Ekkorash possessed [Archmage Vargoth's Staff],[76] but removed the staff's crystalline headpiece not realizing that it worked in concert with the rest of the staff.[77] The dreadlord Pentatharon came into the possession of the [Arklon Crystal Artifact], however it wasn't anything special and the Burning Legion continued searching for something in particular.[77] - Ravandwyr sent adventurers to retrieve the staff and Ekkorash was killed in the process,[76] while Nether-Stalker Khay'ji sent adventurers to defeat Pentatharon.[77] - Culuthas, a dreadlord, took Spirit's Song and betrayed the Legion. He killed the demons of Farahlon and summoned Hounds and Eyes of Culuthas to aid him. A projection of Socrethar threatened Culuthas to give him the crystal or die, but the Consortium killed the dreadlord and obtained the crystal.[78][79] - A group of mo'args and gan'args began activities in the Scrap Field, so the goblins of Area 52 feared that it was a problem for them. For that reason, they sent adventurers to deal with them.[80] - Demons at the north of Netherstorm were aiding the Sunfury blood elves at Manaforge Ara and had some bases. The Aldor and Scryers fought the Legion's presence in Manaforge Ara; the alliance between the blood elves and the Burning Legion was discovered by the Aldor[81] and Scryers.[82] - The demons of Manaforge Ara were killed by the Aldor.[81] - Kaylaan, a draenei Aldor, joined the Legion when he heard of the alliance between the Sunfury and the Burning Legion.[83][84] - At Forge Base: Oblivion the Legion was led by Forgemaster Morug and had in their possession the [First Half of Socrethar's Stone]. However, Morug was killed by adventurers in order to fight Socrethar.[85] - At Forge Base: Gehenna the Legion was led by Silroth and had in their possession the [Second Half of Socrethar's Stone]. However, Silroth was killed by adventurers in order to fight Socrethar.[85] - High Priestess Ishanah led the Aldor to fight against Socrethar, but Kaylaan the Lost was in their way. While fighting Kaylaan, Socrethar killed Ishanah; but Kaylaan, seeing his mentor dying, proceeded to resurrect her. Socrethar then killed Kaylann.[83] - Finally, the Aldor and Scryers attacked Socrethar; thanks to [Voren'thal's Presence] the eredar was weakened and was killed in the battle.[86] Fury of The Sunwell[] Kil'jaeden was not finished yet, however, for he had found a new pawn to manipulate in Prince Kael'thas Sunstrider. After his defeat at Tempest Keep, and still blinded by his lust for power, Kael became an all too willing participant in the Burning Legion's next attempt to invade and conquer Azeroth. Kil'jaeden restored Kael'thas' health and power through demonic means and empowered many of his followers will fel energy. Kael'thas sent his new Felblood elves to Silvermoon City, where they captured M'uru from Kael's own people and took him to the Sunwell. Kael'thas also discovered that the energies of the Sunwell still existed, in the form of the human girl Anveena, and she was imprisoned and taken to the Sunwell, with Kael hoping to use her energies to reignite the Sunwell, to both bring his new master Kil'jaeden into Azeroth, and to supply himself with a new font of limitless power. However, with the intervention of the blue dragonflight and mortal adventurers of Azeroth, Kael'thas was killed once and for all in the Magister's Terrace, and Kil'jaeden's plans to enter Azeroth were foiled. Anveena sacrificed herself to weaken Kil'jaeden so that the mortal heroes battling him could finally defeat him and send him back through the Sunwell. After the battle at the Sunwell, Velen used what was left of M'uru's "body" to reignite the Sunwell, saving the blood elves from their addiction to demonic power and allowing them to continue to use the powers of the Light. The royal coup[] In the wake of the Battle of Angrathar the Wrathgate, it was revealed that Varimathras plotted his way into controlling a substantial part of the Forsaken faction, using them and his chief underling, Grand Apothecary Putress, to launch a surprise assault upon the combatants at the Wrathgate. This ambush resulted in the deaths of hundreds of Alliance and Horde soldiers, including famed Alliance hero Bolvar Fordragon. At the same time, Burning Legion forces under the command of Varimathras successfully took control of the Undercity and nearly killed The Dark Lady herself. He was eventually faced and defeated by Thrall, Sylvanas, and adventurers during Battle for the Undercity,[87] after which he was not seen again. During the battle, Varimathras made reference to "years of planning" (attempting to undermine Sylvanas) and the voice of an unseen "Master" was heard berating Varimathras for his failure to prevent the Horde party from reaching the throne room, after which point Varimathras entered the fray himself — where he was defeated. While the Burning Legion was tactically successful in rekindling Alliance-Horde tensions, it ultimately failed in its strategic goal of re-summoning yet another Legion invasion. It remains unknown who the unseen "Master" was, but is presumably Sargeras. Cataclysm[] By the time of the Cataclysm, the Burning Legion's command structure was mostly wiped out, with only a few survivors and their masters' whereabouts unknown. The Burning Legion may have still been a devastating threat to the universe, however, though it had a weaker hold on Azeroth. With the devastation caused by the Cataclysm, the Twilight's Hammer Cult were able to successfully take Darkwhisper Gorge from the Burning Legion. Despite this defeat the Legion was able to keep their holdouts in Felwood, Desolace and the Blasted Lands. Despite Balnazzar's defeat and the collapse of the Scarlet Crusade in Stratholme, the legion was able to keep a hold on the city through Balnazzar's new Risen army, which consisted of Scarlet Crusaders who were in a state of undeath. The Scarlets at Tyr's Hand had also fallen to this fate, securing the town for the Legion. However, the denizens of Azeroth did not allow the Legion to keep these areas in peace. In Desolace, the Cenarion Circle aided Khan Leh'Prah of the Kolkar clan in his quest to unite the centaur (Kolkar, Magram and Gelkis) and successfully launched an assault on Shok'Thokar. In Felwood, the Emerald Circle and Cenarion Circle launched their own assaults on the Legion holdouts in the area. In the Blasted Lands, both the Horde and the Alliance secured the Dark Portal and sent adventurers into the Tainted Forest to end the Legion's hold on the region. Meanwhile, the Argent Crusade sent adventurers into both Tyr's Hand and Stratholme and claimed them for the Crusade. While the legion tried to hold on to its bastions of power on Azeroth, they were able to launch an assault to reclaim Darkwhisper Gorge from the Twilight's Hammer that allowed them to reacquire the Gates of Sothann. Traveler[] For over 20 years, the nathrezim Highlord Xaraax plotted to destroy Azeroth with the Darkstorm, a dark force that could unmake the world, destroying every living soul. An unknown naaru shielded the world, the Darkstorm unable to come. The naaru was protected by the Order of the Seven Suns led by Greydon Thorne, with his brother, Silverlaine. Xaraax eventually managed to convince Silverlaine to join him. When Silverlaine returned to the order, he destroyed the naaru, the impact also destroying the Diamond Blade, its shards blasting across Azeroth. Due to the fact that the shards were infused with the naaru's essence, the Darkstorm couldn't come to Azeroth. Turning once more to Silverlaine, now known as Malus, Xaraax commanded him to find all the shards and bring the weapon so he could finally kill the naaru. Malus led his Hidden to search for Greydon, who was on the same mission. Eventually, the mission passed on his son Aramar and then on Makasa Flintwill who managed to find all the parts and reforge the battle. Intending to rescue the Thornes from Xaraax's citadel, Makasa gathered an army of murlocs, gnolls, yetis, and other individuals to assault the citadel which contained a host of demons and arakkoa. Fighting their way through the enemy lines, Xaraax took hold of the Diamond Blade when Makasa and her allies made it to the top of the demonic stronghold. When the nathrezim began corrupting it, Malus, who had been deemed unuseful, took the Highlord's former fel sword and impaled him on it and tossed him to the Darkstorm. The fel corrupted Malus, and the threat of the Darkstorm remained, forcing Makasa's friends and former Hidden to continue fighting against the citadel's demons and Malus. Ultimately, the Light and nature magic, and the great number of Thorne's friends bested Malus, and Makasa ended his life. With his death, the Darkstorm evaporated, and the majority of demons was defeated by the Azerothian force while other fled from the citadel.[88] Mists of Pandaria[] Wrathion suggested that the Horde and Alliance would have to unite to fight a greater foe that will come from beyond Azeroth. The image that he displayed while saying this shows Azeroth under bombardment by balls of green and yellow fire. This threat was confirmed to be the Burning Legion during the Chi-Ji portion of [90] Celestial Blessings. Warlords of Draenor[] - The sky will rain fire...the oceans will be filled with blood.... DRAENOR WILL BURN! As Kairozdormu opened a gateway to an alternate dimension at the time of corruption of the orcs on its version of Draenor, intending on rallying them before they were swayed, Kil'jaeden took notice of it and went directly to Gul'dan in order to corrupt the orcs into the Legion's service, not bothering with using Ner'zhul as a public figure like in the main timeline. However, due to Garrosh's interference with the timeline, Grommash and the orcs didn't accept Gul'dan's offer. Insulted by Grommash, Mannoroth attacked him, but the orcs were prepared for him, and they fired their cannons at Mannoroth. Before he could regain his poise, Grommash lunged at him and buried Gorehowl deep into his skull, effectively killing Mannoroth. Gul'dan, and the Shadow Council, were captured by Grommash's Iron Horde and used to power the Dark Portal to take them to Prime Azeroth. Under Khadgar's leadership, the Alliance and the Horde successfully repelled the invasion, destroyed the Dark Portal, and freed Gul'dan and his lackeys.[89] With Kil'jaeden's failure to corrupt the orcs, Archimonde took full control of the Legion's operations on the alternate Draenor. As a result, the demons were less behind-the-scenes and more direct in corrupting the residents. Exarch Othaar was one of those that had been lured by the demons to help in Draenor's destruction. Believing that Velen was leading their people to their doom, and promised by the Legion with great power, he swore fealty to them and transformed into the man'ari eredar, Socrethar, adopting a leadership role within the Sargerei. He later led the Legion's attack on Shattrath and succeeded in taking over the draenei capital. Later on, with the help of the Alliance and Horde, Socrethar was killed and Shattrath was liberated. Gul'dan, on the other hand, had been looking for ways to empower himself and the Legion. He sent Teron'gor to Auchindoun gather all the draenei's souls to be used to empower the demons, and sent Cho'gall to Oshu'gun to subjugate the naaru, K'ure. Both of them betrayed Gul'dan and used the respective energies they were sent to gather to empower themselves. Thanks to adventurers employed by Khadgar, both were stopped and killed before they could wreak havoc. Gul'dan later traveled to the Spires of Arak to find a frustrated and brooding Iskar. Gul'dan offered him a cure for the Curse of Sethe, and power beyond reckoning. Frustrated over his failure to fully restore Terokk, the Curse of Sethe, and his ever-growing thirst for vengeance, Iskar gladly accepted Gul'dan's offer and became the first of the fel arakkoa. He later persuaded more cursed arakkoa to accept Gul'dan's offer and they swore fealty to the Legion. The Sethekk cult also joined Iskar's arakkoa. Later on, the Iron Horde went into disarray due to their losses to the Alliance and Horde, causing many of the clans to leave Grommash. Gul'dan appeared to Grommash and taunted him for his constant defeats against the Alliance and Horde, and again offered him the Blood of Mannoroth. Grommash refused and attacked Gul'dan, but was easily repelled with Gul'dan's magic. Kilrogg, on the other hand, gladly accepted his offer and became a fel orc. The rest of the Iron Horde followed suit, and Gul'dan effectively took control of them, turning Tanaan Jungle into the Legion's base of operations. Not deterred by this, the Horde and Alliance respectively established the bases of Vol'mar and Lion's Watch and quickly took to battle against the Legion and their allies. Adventurers would ultimately storm Hellfire Citadel itself in a final effort to stop them, wiping out the enemy leadership including Mannoroth and Archimonde. With Archimonde's death Draenor was declared free,[90] though Gul'dan escaped by being sent through the Dark Portal by the Defiler in his last moments. The third invasion[] - Main article: Third invasion of the Burning Legion The third invasion[91] began when the Tomb of Sargeras was reopened by Gul'dan, and the demons of the Burning Legion poured into Azeroth from the Felstorm, a horrific nexus of magic. Their full, terrifying might was fixed on summoning Sargeras to Azeroth—and they had already located the key to his return.[92] This was the largest demonic invasion of Azeroth in the world's history. The Legion Invasions attacked areas such as Dun Morogh, Azshara, Northern Barrens, Tanaris, Westfall, and the Hillsbrad Foothills. Azeroth's defenders rallied to repel the various assaults. The Broken Shore was the source of this invasion, where the armies of Azeroth defeated the initial thrust of the invasion.[93] The Battle for the Broken Shore, however, culminated in the Legion overrunning Azeroth's defenders and forcing them to withdraw. Many of the greatest heroes in Azeroth, such as Tirion Fordring, Vol'jin, and Varian Wrynn, fell in battle before the Legion or were mortally wounded. Some escaped, others went missing or were captured,[94] but many more died upon the Broken Shore. In addition to directly attacking the planet, the Legion used more subtle means to try and subvert the defenders through their nathrezim agents. The newly-crowned Anduin Wrynn captured an assassin, in disguise as a Stormwindian soldier, that then tried to convince the king that he was weak and that his kingdom needed to align with them. Another appeared to the desperate Khadgar inside Karazhan in the guise of his old master, Medivh. In search of knowledge Medivh may have kept that could help, Khadgar was tempted by the demon to accept the power that "Medivh" had supposedly stored away in a tome to empower another Guardian of Tirisfal, something the former apprentice admittedly desired that could make the Legion fear him. Khadgar recognized it was a trap to corrupt him and destroyed the tome. Both agents were destroyed and sent back to the Twisting Nether.[95] Discovering that the Pillars of Creation can be used to seal the Legion's gateway into Azeroth and to preventing another invasion, adventurers were quick to seek them out.[96] However, this task was far from easy as agents of the Legion such as God-King Skovald and Elisande, as well as other forces led by Dargrul, Xavius, and Queen Azshara, sought the Pillars for their own. Furthermore, in order to acquire the Eye of Aman'thul, the class orders and the Nightfallen worked together to strike at the Grand Magistrix and her nightborne, who had sided with the Legion, believing its victory to be inevitable.[97] Ultimately, the Pillars of Creation were acquired by Azeroth's heroes, who then moved to assault the Broken Shore and, after securing the foothold of Deliverance Point, the Armies of Legionfall quickly set about engaging the Legion throughout the zone, securing further gains against Kil'jaeden's forces. The mortals' primary goal remained the Tomb of Sargeras, the focal point of the Burning Legion's invasion, where they sought to sever the Legion's link to the Twisting Nether. After securing the Cathedral of Eternal Night, the lower parts of the Tomb of Sargeras were breached by Azeroth's defenders and they defeated the dark horrors within including the fallen Avatar of Sargeras. Upon the Avatar's defeat, Velen and Illidan Stormrage led the charge against Kil'jaeden, who was ultimately killed inside the Twisting Nether.[98] Upon Kil'jaeden's death, his command ship began to crash toward Argus. Illidan used the Sargerite Keystone to open a rift between Argus and Azeroth, allowing Khadgar to teleport them safely to Azsuna. Facing the imminent threat of the Legion's full might appearing in the skies above the world, the Armies of Legionfall, the Horde, and the Alliance[99] gathered within the Exodar where they boarded the new ship Vindicaar in order to take the fight to Argus itself, joining with the Army of the Light. The assault on Argus ended with Sargeras himself imprisoned, and with the Legion's leadership having already been killed, the Legion has effectively become a nonentity and their Burning Crusade brought to an end. Battle for Azeroth[] On alternate Draenor, after Archimonde's fall, the orcs and draenei worked together for years to drive the Burning Legion forces.[100] At the time of the Fourth War on Azeroth, at least one demon was tracked by the Illidari into Zuldazar on Zandalar.[101] Shadowlands[] During the war against the Jailer, the nathrezim were revealed to have seemingly discarded the Legion or whatever remained of it, with Mal'Ganis going as far as to declare that the Legion was a pawn used by them for their true master: Sire Denathrius.[102] Dragonflight[] By the time of the war against the Primalists, pockets of demons remained active on Azeroth. On Darkmoon Island, the nathrezim Lord Banehollow and his demonic followers lured new warlocks to his side for years, in order to obtain their souls at the Altar of Storms in the Burning Steppes,[103] until he was defeated by adventuring warlocks at the Tainted Scar in the Blasted Lands.[104] Meanwhile, Lord Hel'nurath and his minions resurged in the Shadow Hold and Jaedenar of Felwood, where they captured and corrupted night elves into satyrs, until they were defeated by a group of night elves led by Maiev Shadowsong.[105] On Argus, the Argussian Reach led by Chieftain Hatuun continued to battle the remnants of the Legion in their quest to reclaim their homeworld.[106] Meanwhile, following the Legion's defeat during the third invasion, the man'ari had grown desperate and either isolated themselves or created cults awaiting the return of Sargeras.[107] In the midst of this situation, a group of man'ari led by Arzal'kal, seeking redemption for the atrocities they committed over millennia, aided the Krokul in repentance for their deeds. In time, Arzal'kal met Velen and helped retrieve the Brilliant Star from Speaker Nalridun and his cultists. In recognition of their deeds, the Prophet allowed them to join the draenei, a position Arzal'kal accepted by reclaiming his original name: Arzaal.[108] During their fight against the man'ari cultists, the adventurers could find invasion plans, although incomplete, these plans mentioned a new Legion invasion of an unknown distant world. Notable members[] | Name | Race | Description | Status | |---|---|---|---| | Sargeras | Titan | Creator and leader of the Burning Legion. Formerly the champion of the Pantheon. Imprisoned at the Seat of the Pantheon. | Imprisoned | | Kil'jaeden | Man'ari | Acting leader and Supreme Commander of the Burning Legion in Sargeras' absence. Killed aboard his ship in the Twisting Nether, making his death permanent. | Deceased | | Archimonde | Man'ari | Legion Field Commander on Azeroth who led the armies of the Burning Legion. He was defeated during the Battle of Mount Hyjal, and then again on alternative Draenor where he was permanently destroyed inside the Nether.[109] | Deceased | | Mannoroth | Annihilan | The General of the Burning Legion and King of the Pit Lords. He was the corrupter of the orcs and was later killed by Grommash Hellscream, and then again on alternate Draenor by alternate Grommash, his skeletal remains were reanimated and he was killed yet again in Hellfire Citadel. | Defeated | | Tichondrius | Nathrezim | Leader of the Nathrezim and its Chief Infiltration Specialist. He was slain by Illidan Stormrage, and then again during the Legion's third invasion in Suramar. | Defeated | | Anetheron | Nathrezim | Second Lord of the Nathrezim. Took command of the Scourge after the death of Tichondrius. He was slain at the Battle of Mount Hyjal. Anetheron returned with Archimonde to alternate Draenor and was defeated in Hellfire Citadel. | Alive | | Azgalor | Annihilan | High ranking pit lord. He was slain at the Battle of Mount Hyjal. Azgalor returned with Archimonde to alternate Draenor and was defeated in Hellfire Citadel. | Defeated | | Kaz'rogal | Doomguard | Lieutenant of Archimonde. He was slain at the Battle of Mount Hyjal. Kaz'rogal returned with Archimonde to alternate Draenor and was defeated in Hellfire Citadel. | Defeated | | Mephistroth | Nathrezim | Third Lord of the Nathrezim. He remained hidden during the second invasion but was defeated by the Council of the Black Harvest. | Defeated | | Kazzak the Supreme | Doomguard | Lord of the Doomguards, Right Hand of Kil'jaeden and most trusted lieutenant of Archimonde. He was responsible for the reopening of the Dark Portal. He reappeared on alternate Draenor with the new title of Supreme Lord and is defeated again at the Throne of Kil'jaeden. | Defeated | | Detheroc | Nathrezim | One of the three dreadlords tasked with ruling the Scourge in Lordaeron during the second invasion. Was defeated and killed by Sylvanas Windrunner, but returned during the third invasion to sabotage the unified Horde-Alliance front against the Legion. His plot was stopped by the Uncrowned and he was killed once again. | Defeated | | Lord Jaraxxus | Eredar | A man'ari eredar defeated in the Crusaders' Coliseum. Reappears in Legion during the third invasion of Azeroth. | Alive | | Fel Lord Zakuun | Fel Lord | A lieutenant of Archimonde tasked with breaking the will of Grommash Hellscream. Defeated in Hellfire Citadel. | Defeated | | Magtheridon | Annihilan | The former Lord of Outland, who conquered the ruins of the orcish homeworld following its destruction. His reign was ended by the arrival of Illidan Stormrage, who took Magtheridon's throne at the Black Temple for himself. | Defeated | | Rakeesh | Eredar | High-ranking eredar commander in the demonic Burning Legion and overlord of the Rakeeshi. Rakeesh was originally the son of Prophet Velen, but was kidnapped by the demon lord Kil'jaeden in a revenge scheme ages ago and broken by the Demonic Inquisition[110] to serve the Legion. | Deceased | | Balnazzar | Nathrezim | One of the three dreadlords tasked with ruling the Scourge in Lordaeron during the second invasion. He was defeated by the combined forces of Sylvanas, Varimathras, and Lord Garithos. He returned and possessed the corpse of Saidan Dathrohan in order to manipulate the Scarlet Crusade from within. After his defeat, he resurrected dead Crusaders to serve him as the Risen. He returned during the third invasion for the last time, leading an assault on the Netherlight Temple. Since the temple is located in the Twisting Nether, Balnazzar's death is permanent. | Deceased | | Gul'dan | Orc | The founder and master of the Shadow Council and the creator of death knights. Gul'dan played a major role in corrupting the Orcs and binding them to the Legion's service. He was killed by maddened demons during his journey to the Tomb of Sargeras in pursuit of power. | Deceased | | Alternate Gul'dan | Orc | The founder and master of the Shadow Council and former leader of the Iron Horde of alternate Draenor. Deposed by Grommash but still facilitated the Legion's entry into Draenor. Played a major role in the third invasion but was killed atop the Nighthold in Suramar by Illidan Stormrage. | Deceased | | Highlord Kruul | Doomguard | The Burning Legion Field Commander on Azeroth, in the place of Kazzak the Supreme. Initially defeated by the Illidari in Outland, he returned during the third invasion where he was killed in the Twisting Nether, making his death permanent. | Deceased | | Prince Kael'thas Sunstrider | Blood Elf / Felblood Elf | Former king of the blood elves and servant of Illidan Stormrage. After his defeat at Tempest Keep, he was saved by a servant of Kil'jaeden. He pledged to use the Sunwell's energies to bring Kil'jaeden into Azeroth but failed. He was killed at Magister's Terrace. | Deceased | | Talgath | Eredar | A high ranking agent of the Burning Legion tasked with scouring the Nether for living Draenei. Killed by Velen on Eredath. | Deceased | | Varimathras | Nathrezim | One of three dreadlords tasked with ruling the Scourge in Lordaeron during the second invasion. He betrayed his brothers, Balnazzar and Detheroc, and joined Sylvanas, to save his own life, but secretly maintained Legion loyalties. He led a coup against Sylvanas but failed and returned to the Twisting Nether. He languished in Antorus, being punished for his past failures, until he was killed by adventurers. | Deceased | | Socrethar | Eredar | A former member of the draenei Council of Exarchs of alternate Draenor, he and the Sargerei turned traitors and joined Gul'dan's forces. | Defeated | | Shadow-Lord Iskar | Arakkoa | Former leader of the Arakkoa Outcasts on Alternate Draenor. Took control of the Sethekk after joining the Legion. Died in Hellfire Citadel. | Deceased | | God-King Skovald | Vrykul | King of the vrykul on the Broken Isles and ruler of the lands of Stormheim. Allied with the Legion following their return to Azeroth. Killed in the Halls of Valor. | Deceased | | Brood Queen Tyranna | Aranasi | Ruler of the demonic world of Mardum. Sargeras entrusted her with the [Sargerite Keystone]. Killed by the Illidari, and her corpse currently hangs from the ceiling of the Fel Hammer. | Deceased | | Jagganoth | Annihilan | The former Overlord of Dreadscar Rift. His reign was ended by the arrival of the newest member of the Council of the Black Harvest. | Deceased | | Fel'dan | Fel Orc | Former leader of the Shadow Council in Felwood. | Deceased | | Grand Apothecary Putress | Forsaken Undead | Former chief apothecary of the Forsaken's Royal Apothecary Society. Betrayed Sylvanas along with Varimathras during his coup. He was killed during the Battle for the Undercity. | Deceased | | Elisande | Nightborne | The Grand Magistrix of Suramar was coerced into to allying herself with the Legion during their Third Invasion. Upon her death, her echo expressed regret at joining forces with the Legion. | Deceased | The majority of the Legion ruling hierarchy has been either defeated on Azeroth or permanently destroyed in the Twisting Nether. Former[] | Name | Title | Description | Status | |---|---|---|---| | Queen Azshara | Queen of the Naga | The Queen of the kaldorei and believed herself "betrothed" to Sargeras. After the Sundering, she and her Highborne were transformed into naga by the Old God N'Zoth, whom she began serving. | Alive | | Xavius | Nightmare Lord | Formerly Azshara's counselor and advisor, he sided with the Legion when Azshara summoned them into Azeroth during the first invasion. Since then, he has severed ties with the Legion and defected to the service of N'zoth, who granted him powers over the Emerald Nightmare in return. | Deceased | | The Lich King | Lord of the Scourge | As Ner'zhul, he was created by Kil'jaeden to unleash the plague of undeath upon Azeroth's defenders. His history with the Burning Legion has left him spiteful and vengeful, and, as Arthas, he betrayed Kil'jaeden by killing his dreadlord jailers and separated the Scourge from the Legion. | Defunct | | Illidan Stormrage | The Betrayer | Lord of Outland and master of the Illidari. Made a pact with Kil'jaeden to destroy the Lich King, but after his failure, he departed to Outland and severed ties with the Legion. | Alive | | Lothraxion | High Commander | A nathrezim infused with the Light and a leader of the Grand Army of the Light. He once hunted down creatures of the Void for the Legion, until he was killed Locus-Walker, and later joined Xe'ra and the Army of the Light. | Alive | | Mal'Ganis | Nathrezim | Chosen to head up the plot to manipulate Prince Arthas Menethil and lure him to Northrend. He was betrayed by the Lich King when he instructed Arthas, through Frostmourne, to kill Mal'ganis. Vengeful, he returned under the guise of Admiral Barean Westwind to lead the Scarlet Onslaught against the Lich King. Appeared briefly on the Broken Shore but didn't participate in the third invasion. In the aftermath of the Legion's defeat, he was amongst the nathrezim that invaded Revendreth to rescue Denathrius, where he outright declared that the Legion was a pawn, was briefly imprisoned by the the Court of the Harvesters, and then defeated within the Sepulcher of the First Ones. | Defeated | Non-sapient species[] The Burning Legion races consist mainly of demons, but other non-demonic species serve them as well. Beasts[] Constructs[] - Fel reavers - Abyssals - Infernals - Fel cannons - Homunculi - Ur'zul - Infernal machines - Devastators - Legion ships Races of other organizations[] - This list includes the organizations that serve the Burning Legion. Organization[] - For more background information on this organization, see The Warcraft Encyclopedia/Burning Legion. Hierarchy[] Sargeras is the leader of the Burning Legion. If missing, Kil'jaeden runs things in his stead.[2] Eredar serve as the Legion's overlords and strategists. Pit lords serve as generals and ground commanders.[111] Nathrezim are a step below pit lords.[112] Doomguard are four steps below nathrezim, serving as marines, captains, military leaders, and so on.[113] Terrorguards are close in rank and role to doomguard.[114] Felguard serve as rank and file soldiers.[111] The most powerful Burning Legion soldiers often carry an emblem of their rank and status within the demon army.[115] Numbers[] The number of demons in the Twisting Nethers is virtually infinite.[116] Though estimed in the millions they are able to reform in the Twisting Nether again and again.[4] However not all demons are part of the Buring Legion. During the War of the Ancients, Sargeras gathered at least one million demons.[117] Wendy Breezy estimated them to number in the millions.[4] Organizations who serve the Legion[] - Currently - Shadow Council and the cults who serve them † - Alternate Shadow Council - Dreadlord Insurgents † - Scarlet Crusade and Scarlet Onslaught (formerly) - Risen † - Scarlet Crusade and Scarlet Onslaught (formerly) - Defected Strongholds[] Demons generally come from hundreds of worlds,[118] but only some are known: - Argus - homeworld of the eredar and central headquarters of the Burning Legion - Nathreza - homeworld of the nathrezim and repository of arcana and forbidden knowledge - Kerxan - Nihilam - Niskara - prison world - Rancora - home of many skittering demons - Xoroth - home to the infernal dreadsteeds The Legion also previously held but lost many locations, such as: - Fortresses on Azeroth and Outland, such as the Black Temple - The prison world of Mardum - The portal world of Jagganoth's Lair - The abandoned ship of Shadowgore Citadel Demonic buildings range from commandeered local structures to forge sites and mobile constructions rising from summoned meteors.[119] These buildings are militaristic in nature, powered by soul engines and defended by spires of woe. Notes and trivia[] - During their third invasion, the Burning Legion had their nathrezim raise skeletons in an attempt to recreate the Scourge to some extent.[120] - The fact that some of the Legion's satyr come from Xoroth and that the demons include alternate Shadow Council agents in their ranks indicates that the Burning Legion used corrupted troops from Azeroth and Draenor in their effort for cosmic conquest. - When demons of the Legion fall out of favor, their spirits are imprisoned within orbs and distributed to their mages and warlocks.[121] - According to Illidan, intimidation is the weapon of the Burning Legion rather than intelligence.[122] - Being captured by the Legion would end in intolerable torture, or worse. When captured, it is easier to say "Xar il romath da tidesbi" to insult Sargeras in order to be executed immediately.[123] - According to Chris Metzen, Sargeras and his Burning Legion are based on the demon Surtur and his fiery legions from Muspelheim from Marvel Comics, specifically Walter Simonson's run on The Mighty Thor.[124] - The Burning Legion (that is, "demons") was originally considered to be a playable race for Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos[125], however, the idea was scrapped because Blizzard felt that universal race mechanics such as mining gold and advancing the tech tree (gradually upgrading your units) did not fit well with the overwhelming threat the demons represented.[126] As a result, other races are used when the Burning Legion assaults the player as a race in the campaigns, such as when Archimonde makes his assault on Nordrassil from an Undead (Scourge) base. - A map "mutation" called "Burning Legion" exists in the multiplayer of StarCraft II. - Before Warcraft III was released, the Burning Legion was originally envisioned as a roaming army of mana addicts, forever cursed to consume magic in order to survive. Their lust for arcane power made them search for worlds to drain the magic of, but also to eradicate all life within them.[127] There were even references to the eredar themselves having accidentally spread magic loose through the universe after destroying their home dimension.[128] The Last Guardian said that the Burning Legion sought to invade any world where magic was mastered and grown to keep these energies for themselves alone,[129] but without mentioning addiction. Expanding on the Sargeras and the Betrayal passage, The Warcraft Encyclopedia later said that many fell under the sway of Sargeras through magical addiction,[130] but also that the Legion's mission was to destroy the universe and remake it without the underlying defect preventing true order,[1] thus separating their goal from the concept of feeding their magical hunger. Magic itself went through a similar change - arcane magic was originally described as corrupting and attracting demons, but gradually changed over time with the addition of the concept of fel magic being an opposite cosmic energy to it. Demons still feed on arcane magic, but arcane magic itself isn't the reason demons appear and thrive anymore. - In Hearthstone, the Legion card back was rewarded for achieving Rank 20 in Ranked Season 30, which took place during September 2016. The flavor text reads: "The Burning Legion attempted to invade Azeroth three times in the last 10,000 years. Fourth time's the charm?" Speculation[] This article or section includes speculation, observations or opinions possibly supported by lore or by Blizzard officials. It should not be taken as representing official lore. | Current status[] With Sargeras imprisoned, Kil'jaeden and Archimonde dead, and some of the nathrezim returning to the Shadowlands, it is likely the surviving lords of the Legion will battle among themselves for supremacy to become Sargeras's successor. Other demon lords may even defect from the Legion and craft their own organizations. Gallery[] - The Burning Legion in Warcraft III. - Burning Legion icon (as seen in archaeology) - The skull seen on the spire of woe seems to be another major Legion symbol - Texture of a dais incorporating new and old skull iconography, notably used on the front of the Tomb of Sargeras - Burning Legion buildings concept art. - Warcraft III - Nether dragon demonic origins - Warcraft III imp concept References[] - ^ a b c The Warcraft Encyclopedia: Burning Legion - ^ a b Sean Copeland on Twitter (2014-02-07): @Loreology Is Kil'jaden fully loyal to Sargeras, or is he trying to take over the Legion? "Loyal to the Legion. Sargeras went MIA after the death of Medivh, he's running things in his place." - ^ a b c Blizzard Entertainment Inc. 2007-04-19. Crisis at the Portal (English). News From Outland: Crisis at Da Portal. Retrieved on 2009-06-20. “How long do you think this assault will last? Given that the Legion is estimated to number in the millions! - Wendy Breezy” - ^ a b c Jeremy Feasel on Twitter: "Xavius has shown us that Sargeras can re-form minions again and again. He is a Titan, and thus, the legion is endless." - ^ Azzakel Dungeon Journal - ^ World of Warcraft: Illidan, pg. 129 - ^ "Legacy of the Damned: King Arthas", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. Sylvanas Windrunner: "The Legion was defeated months ago. How could they not know?". - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos Game Manual#Archimonde - ^ Thrall's Vision (WC3 demo) - ^ Ravencrest's Legacy (quest)#Notes - ^ "Exodus of the Horde: Chasing Visions", Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos. Blizzard Entertainment. Medivh: "Human? I left my humanity behind long ago. I am something ... different now. Know that I have seen the future and beheld the great burning shadow that is coming to consume this world. You sense it as well, don't you?". - ^ [45] Nath'raxas Hold: Preparations - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1 - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos manual, pg. 80 - ^ Afrasiabi on Twitter (2015-05-06): "Archimonde is a demon whose demon soul is anchored to the Nether. The Nether transcends all realities. That is all." - ^ World of Warcraft: Illidan, chapter 9: This time he saw not just one universe but a near infinity of them, a complex fractal structure, where new worlds were born each minute from the decisions made a heartbeat before. Everywhere the Burning Legion marched, destroying world after world. - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 22 - 25 - ^ a b c World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 48 - 54 - ^ [Expedition Report A37J - Part 3] - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 98 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 99 - 100 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 100 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 101 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 102 - 103 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 103 - 104 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 104 - ^ The Last Guardian, chapter 7 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 1, pg. 148 - 150 - ^ Rise of the Horde pg. 82 - ^ a b World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 68 - ^ Rise of the Horde, chapter 7 - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 2, pg. 99 - ^ Warcraft: Orcs & Humans, Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness - ^ Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 138 - ^ a b "Curse of the Blood Elves: Misconceptions", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ a b "Legacy of the Damned: King Arthas", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ "Terror of the Tides: Shards of the Alliance", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ a b c d "Legacy of the Damned: A New Power in Lordaeron", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ "Legacy of the Damned: A Kingdom Divided", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ "Legacy of the Damned: Sylvanas' Farewell", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ "Legacy of the Damned: The Dark Lady", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ "Legacy of the Damned: Dreadlord's Fall", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ World of Warcraft: Chronicle Volume 3, pg. 103 - ^ Death is Contagious - ^ "Curse of the Blood Elves: Lord of Outland", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ http://www.worldofwarcraft.com/news/rss-01-2007.xml - ^ a b [61] Through the Dark Portal - ^ a b [61] Through the Dark Portal - ^ [10-30] Journey to Thrallmar - ^ a b [10-30] The Path of Anguish - ^ a b [10-30] Felspark Ravine - ^ [10-30] Disrupt Their Reinforcements - ^ [10-30] Mission: Gateways Murketh and Shaadraz - ^ [10-30] Mission: The Murketh and Shaadraz Gateways - ^ [10-30] Mission: The Abyssal Shelf - ^ [10-30] Return to Thrallmar - ^ [10-30] Disruption - Forge Camp: Mageddon - ^ [10-30] Forge Camp: Mageddon - ^ [10-30] Cannons of Rage - ^ [10-30] Enemy of my Enemy... - ^ a b [10-30] Invasion Point: Annihilator - ^ [10-30] Doorway to the Abyss - ^ [20-30] From the Ashes - ^ [20-30] Little Embers - ^ [20-30] Culling the Wild - ^ [20-30] Felsworn Gas Mask - ^ [20-30] Damaged Mask - ^ [20-30] Mystery Mask - ^ a b [20-30] Deceive thy Enemy - ^ [20-30] You're Fired! - ^ "Curse of the Blood Elves: Gates of the Abyss", Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment. - ^ [20-30G] Harvesting the Fel Ammunition - ^ [20-30] Fire At Will! - ^ [20-30] The Hound-Master - ^ a b c d [25-30] The Archmage's Staff - ^ a b c [25-30] Consortium Crystal Collection - ^ [25-30G] Full Triangle - ^ Conversation between Socrethar and Culuthas. - ^ [25-30] In A Scrap With The Legion - ^ a b [25-30] A Dark Pact - ^ [25-30] Damning Evidence - ^ a b [25-30G5] Deathblow to the Legion - ^ [25-30] Aldor No More - ^ a b [25-30G2] A Gift for Voren'thal - ^ [25-30G5] Turning Point - ^ [74] The Battle For The Undercity - ^ Traveler: The Shining Blade - ^ Warlords of Draenor intro experience Draenor counterattack - ^ [100R] Darkness Incarnate - ^ BlizzCon 2015 Opening Ceremony - ^ Legion: Home, Blizzard Entertainment. Retrieved on 2015-08-21 - ^ 2015-08-08, GamesCom 2015 World of Warcraft: Legion Story and Setting Transcript. Blizzplanet, accessed on 2015-08-21 - ^ [10-45] The Search for the Highlord has Stormwind soldiers and Tirion Fordring captive - ^ Harbingers - ^ [10-45] The Diamond King - ^ Grand Magistrix Elisande (tactics)#Quotes - ^ Kil'jaeden (Tomb of Sargeras tactics) - ^ [45] Two If By Sea - ^ [40-70] Bonds Forged Through Battle - ^ [50RWQ] Syrawon the Dominus - ^ [60] The Nathrezim - ^ [30-70] Last Rites By Accident - ^ [30-70] When Revenge Burns Green - ^ [50-70] Wardens' Wrath - ^ [70] Uncertainty - ^ [70] Contrition - ^ [70] Proof and Promise - ^ BlizzCon 2015 - Interview with Dave Kosak. "And the idea was if you played in Mythic and defeated Archimonde, you actually defeated him in the Nether and that he'd be dead dead for good. That was the idea that we played with. We tried to explain that and I don't know if... that certainly doesn't come across in-game because it's not necessarily explained in-game." - ^ Demonic Inquisition#Quotes - ^ a b Exodar Holographic Emitter - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (2014-08-05) - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (2014-08-05) - ^ Sean Copeland on Twitter (2014-08-27) - ^ [45] Symbols of Power - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos manual, 77 - ^ Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos manual, 48 - ^ The Last Guardian, chapter 8 - ^ Fel Structures on Jimmy Lo's ArtStation - ^ [45WQ] Life's a Lich - ^ [25] The Orb of Soran'ruk - ^ [45WQ] Power of Our Enemy - ^ Forward Commander To'arch#Quotes - ^ The Comic Volume 1, pg. 3 - 4 — Chasing Thunder: A foreword by Chris Metzen - ^ Author: Warcraft 3 almost had six playable races - ^ Bill Roper "disannounces" the demons around E3 2001 - ^ Blizzard Entertainment. Warcraft III official site (English) (HTML). Description. Archived from the original on 2000-08-31. Retrieved on 2000-12-23. - ^ Neoseeker - Warcraft III Hands On Preview - ^ The Last Guardian, chapter 8 - ^ The Warcraft Encyclopedia/Burning Legion |
