=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[IFFHS]
Lucas Valeriu Radebe OIS (born April 12, 1969) is a South African former professional footballer who played as a centre back. He began playing in South Africa with Kaizer Chiefs, before transferring to Leeds United, where he played 256 matches for the Yorkshire side.
URL: https://www.iffhs.com/legends/24

[Where is ex-Kaizer Chiefs, Leeds and Bafana captain Lucas Radebe now?]
Lucas Radebe remains one of the most accomplished South African sports stars having captained Kaizer Chiefs, Leeds United and Bafana Bafana. The 55-year-old former defender spent most of his ...
URL: https://www.thesouthafrican.com/sport/soccer/bafana-bafana/where-is-ex-kaizer-chiefs-leeds-and-bafana-captain-lucas-radebe-now/

[10 Facts You Didn't Know About Lucas Radebe - Diski 365]
South African former footballer Lucas Radebe who played primarily as a centre-back. Lucas is remembered by his fans as flamboyant central midfielder who switched to central defence with ease, snuffing out any opposition threat with exquisite, acrobatic scissor kicks and diving headers, and man marking the most lethal strikers into silence. But there 10 facts you didn't know about Lucas Radebe.
URL: https://diski365.co.za/10-facts-didnt-know-lucas-radebe/

[Lucas Radebe - Wikipedia]
Lucas Valeriu Ntuba Radebe OIS (born 12 April 1969) is a South African former professional footballer who played as a centre back. He began playing in the than known Bophuthatswana Soccer league (BOPSOL) playing for Stocks Birds in Lehurutshe closer to Zeerust (North West Provence) before being scouted by Kaizer Chiefs in South Africa, before transferring to Leeds United, where he played 262 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucas_Radebe

[Lucas Radebe Today: His career highlights, family, cars ... - Briefly]
He goes by the name LUCAS RADEBE, a famous retired South African footballer. Read on to be enlightened about his successful career, family life and future ambitions.
URL: https://briefly.co.za/42533-lucas-radebe-age-children-wife-parents-position-stats-current-job-salary-cars-house-instagram-net-worth.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [IFFHS] ---
Lucas Radebe Lucas Valeriu Radebe OIS (born April 12, 1969) is a South African former professional footballer who played as a centre back. He began playing in South Africa with Kaizer Chiefs, before transferring to Leeds United, where he played 256 matches for the Yorkshire side. During his spells at these clubs, he picked up the nicknames "Rhoo" and "The Chief". He became captain of Leeds United and also of the South African national team, most notably at World Cup 2002. Nelson Mandela said of Radebe: "This is my hero."[3] He also captained Kaizer Chiefs during his time at Chiefs. Radebe was born to Emily and Johannes Radebe in the Diepkloof section of Soweto, near Johannesburg, as the fourth of 11 children. He attended the local Bopasenatla Secondary School[4][5] until he was 15 years old. His parents sent him to one of the former homelands in Grade 10, Bophuthatswana, as a way to keep him safe from the violent neighbourhood of Diepkloof Zone Four in Soweto. There he attended Ngotwane High School near Zeerust.[5] There he joined the ICL Birds in the now-defunct Bophuthatswana Soccer League, and was spotted by Patrick Ntsoelengoe who recruited him to one of South Africa's top clubs, the Kaizer Chiefs, in 1989


--- [Where is ex-Kaizer Chiefs, Leeds and Bafana captain Lucas Radebe now?] ---
Where is ex-Kaizer Chiefs, Leeds and Bafana captain Lucas Radebe now? In 2000, Lucas Radebe received the FIFA Fair Play Award in December for his contribution to ridding soccer of racism Lucas Radebe remains one of the most accomplished South African sports stars having captained Kaizer Chiefs, Leeds United and Bafana Bafana. The 55-year-old former defender spent most of his playing days at Leeds where he earned ‘cult-hero’ status. Rhoo as he is affectionately known, was spotted by the late Patrick ‘Ace’ Ntsoelengoe who recruited him to Chiefs in 1989. Radebe originally started his career as a goalkeeper but switched positions to central midfield and before settling in central defence. At Kaizer Chiefs, Lucas Radebe excelled and was often rated the best defender in the country despite being less than 25. In 1994, he joined English side Leeds together with his fellow countrymen Philemon Masinga. While Masinga never settled in Yorkshire, Radebe did fight for his place in the team despite injuries. The former Bafana Bafana’s career with Leeds took off when George Graham took over as coach. Radebe was made captain of the team in 1998 and during that period, Leeds enjoyed a period of relative success. In the 1998–99 season, they finished fourth in the English Premiership, qualifying for the UEFA Cup. The following year, Leeds finished third in the Premier League and qualified for the following season’s UEFA Champions League where they eventually reached the semi-finals. in 2000, Lucas Radebe sustained knee and ankle injuries, which kept him out of the game for almost two years. He did recover in time for the 2002 World Cup where he captained his side for the second consecutive global showpiece. At his peak, Rhoo turned down the chance to move to Manchester United, AC Milan and Roma. Lucas Radebe captained Bafana in two World Cups At the age of 36, Radebe played his last match for Bafana against England on 22 May 2003. Two years later, retired from football and represented just two clubs professionally. Since his retirement, the ex-Chiefs captain has been involved in several educational, social and charitable initiatives. In 2000, he received the FIFA Fair Play Award in December for his contribution to ridding soccer of racism as well as for his work with children in South Africa. Lucas Radebe also runs the ET Radebe Foundation which is a non-profit organisation which focuses on youth development. In September 2022, Rhoo was also named on the Safa technical committee. Last year reports emerged that the former Bafana captain was also eyeing the SAFA presidency post. The 55-year-old soccer legend served with honour, and dignity not only for his country but for Leeds United as well. If anyone deserves the highest position in SA football, it is none other than Lucas ‘Rhoo’ Radebe. Is Radebe celebrated enough in South Africa? Let us know by clicking on the comment tab below this article or by emailing info@thesouthafrican.com. You can also send a WhatsApp to 060 011 021 1. Also follow @TheSAnews on X and The South African on Facebook for the latest news


--- [10 Facts You Didn't Know About Lucas Radebe - Diski 365] ---
No content


--- [Lucas Radebe - Wikipedia] ---
Lucas Valeriu Ntuba Radebe OIS (born 12 April 1969) is a South African former professional footballer who played as a centre back.
He began playing in the than known Bophuthatswana Soccer league (BOPSOL) playing for Stocks Birds in Lehurutshe closer to Zeerust(North West Provence) before being scouted by Kaizer Chiefs in South Africa, before transferring to Leeds United, where he played 262 matches for the Yorkshire side. During his spells at these clubs, he picked up the nicknames "Rhoo" and "The Chief". He became captain of Leeds United and also of the South African national team, most notably at 2002 FIFA World Cup. Nelson Mandela said of Radebe: "This is my hero." He also captained Kaizer Chiefs during his time at Chiefs.


--- [Lucas Radebe Today: His career highlights, family, cars ... - Briefly] ---
Lucas Radebe Today: His career highlights, family, cars, salary, and more Lucas Radebe is a name that is quite familiar among us here in South Africa. He is a retired footballer for multiple teams including Kazier Chiefs, Leeds United, and the South African national team. Learn more about him here. TABLE OF CONTENTS Key takeaways - He began his professional career with Kaizer Chiefs in 1989, making 113 appearances and scoring 5 goals. - Radebe also earned 70 caps for the South African national team. - Radebe was married to Feziwe Faith, who sadly passed away from cancer in October 2008. - He received the FIFA Fair Play Award in December 2000 for his efforts in combating racism and his work with children in South Africa. Lucas Radebe profile summary Full name | Lucas Valeriu Ntuba Radebe | Year of birth | April 12, 1969 | Age | 56 years old (as of 2025) | Place of birth | Soweto, Johannesburg, South Africa | Height | 1.86m | Nationality | South African | Religion | Christianity | School | Bopasenatla Secondary School, Ngotwane High School | National team | South Africa (1992–2003) | Professional clubs | Kaizer Chiefs (1989–1994) Leeds United (1994–2005) | Position | Centre back | Current job | CAF Technical and Development Committee Member | Marital status | Married | Spouse | Thobela Silver | Profession | Retired footballer | Social media | | Lucas Radebe's biography Lucas Radebe is a legendary South African former professional footballer, widely respected both for his achievements on the field and his leadership off it. He is best known for his role as a central defender and captain for both Leeds United in the English Premier League and the South African national team (Bafana Bafana). The famous and retired footballer's date of birth was April 12, 1969. Lucas Radebe's age is 56 years as of 2025. He was raised by his parents in Soweto. His father is known as Johannes, and his mother is Emily. He enrolled in Ngotwane High School, where he was quite active in playing football. How many siblings does Lucas Radebe have? Lucas Radebe is one of 11 children, having grown up with five brothers and five sisters in Diepkloof, Soweto. He has mentioned that being part of such a large family helped prepare him for teamwork and competition in his football career. Lucas Radebe has discussed his upbringing in a large family in various interviews. In a 2024 interview with Radio 702's Clement Manyathela, Radebe shared insights into his childhood in Diepkloof, Soweto, stating: “I come from a family with a sporting background. My dad used to tell me that he was a boxer, I never saw not one picture of him but with his stature, he looked like a boxer with his hands, but my brothers and uncles have pictures to prove. Lucas Radebe's career His career started when he joined Kaizer Chiefs as a goalkeeper. His determination and skills saw him switch position to become a midfielder. He later moved to defence. In 1994, the renowned footballer was transferred to Leeds United at a transfer fee of £250,000. Lucas became the team captain between 1998 and 1999. In 1991, the retired footballer was shot as he was walking down the streets. Fortunately enough, he wasn’t wounded. He made his international debut in July 1992. Later that year, he suffered from ankle and knee injuries. In 2005, he retired from the game. In 2012, he became the team manager of the South African National side. Lucas Radebe stats He began his professional career with Kaizer Chiefs in 1989, where he made 113 appearances and scored 5 goals over five seasons. At Leeds, Radebe became a fan favourite and club captain, making 256 total appearances and scoring 3 goals during his 11-year stint. In the Premier League, Radebe played 197 matches without scoring a goal. On the international stage, Radebe earned 70 caps for South Africa’s national team, Bafana Bafana, scoring 2 goals. He was a crucial part of the historic 1996 Africa Cup of Nations team that won the tournament on home soil. Lucas Radebe's awards - Honoured with the FIFA Fair Play Award in 2000. - In 2009, he was named as the ambassador by the English Football Association to aid in improving the 2018 World Cup bid. - In 2010, he was awarded the PFE Merit Award. Who is Lucas Radebe's wife? He is married to Thobela Silver. The famous and retired footballer was previously married to Feziwe Faith, who succumbed to cancer in 2008. Lucas Radebe's wife's funeral was a deeply emotional event that honoured the life of his late wife, Feziwe Faith Radebe, who passed away on October 11, 2008, at the age of 34 after a brave three-year battle with bowel cancer. In a 2017 interview with SowetanLIVE, he discussed how the grief affected his health: “I didn’t know what happened to me. I didn’t feel anything. I was unconscious. I woke up in hospital. But I’m convinced it was related to my wife’s death. You think, as a man, you have to be strong for the kids. But inside? Inside, I was breaking. I didn’t know how I was going to cope. Fezi had helped me throughout my career.” Lucas Radebe's children Lucas Radebe has four children, namely Lucas Jr., Owami, Ofentse, and Jessica. He had Lucas Jr. and Owami with his first wife, Feziwe Faith Radebe, who passed away in 2008. Later, he had Ofentse and Jessica with his second wife, Thobela Silver, whom he married in 2015. Is Primo, Lucas Radebe son? Yes, Primo Baloyi, also known as Ofentse Baloyi, is the son of South African football legend Lucas Radebe. Born on July 12, 1993, Primo is Lucas Radebe's eldest child from a previous relationship with Pulane Baloyi. He has since established himself as a prominent TikTok content creator, comedian, and actor, earning recognition for his engaging skits and performances. Lucas Radebe and Connie Ferguson Connie Ferguson and football legend Lucas Radebe, but these claims remain unconfirmed by either party. The speculation began in March 2022 when both were photographed together at a Pledge Pink charity photoshoot aimed at raising awareness for breast cancer. In the group photo, Connie and Lucas stood close to each other, prompting social media users to comment on their apparent chemistry and speculate about a possible relationship. One Twitter user remarked, "Connie Ferguson & Lucas Radebe would make a lovely couple." As of now, any assertions about a romantic involvement between Connie Ferguson and Lucas Radebe remain speculative and unconfirmed. What is Lucas Radebe's net worth? His net worth remains unknown but he has likely made millions of dollars from his successful football career, endorsements, business ventures, and philanthropic efforts. Other sources estimate his wealth at $5 million and $13 million. What are the interesting facts about Lucas Radebe? - Radebe originally played as a goalkeeper and had no dreams of becoming a professional footballer. - He led Leeds United to the UEFA Champions League semi-finals in 2001 and a top-three Premier League finish. - He led Bafana Bafana in the 1998 FIFA World Cup, South Africa’s first-ever appearance in the tournament. - Radebe collapsed in 2007 while jogging and was later diagnosed with a serious heart condition. - After his retirement, fans of Leeds United pushed for their home ground, Elland Road, to be renamed in his honour. Today, Lucas Radebe remains a celebrated figure both in South Africa and internationally. From captaining Bafana Bafana and Leeds United to raising a talented family and staying active in philanthropy, his story continues to resonate with fans across generations. Briefly.co.za posted an article about the highest-paid players in Orlando Pirates. The club has several talented players who have contributed to the club's success. Orlando Pirates is arguably one of the top successful clubs in the South African Premier League. They play their home matches at the Orlando Stadium, which has a seating capacity of over 40,000. Find the top-earning players in the squad. Source: Briefly News Kissa Wambugu (Lifestyle writer) Kissa Wambugu is a content creator who has a background in journalism and media. She has worked in the field for several years until she decided to get into content writing which she is very passionate about. For her, writing is all about telling a story and making a difference, giving information that would serve one’s interests. Words have the power to make a difference, and when hers do, then a part of her purpose gets satiated. Kevin Omuya (Lifestyle writer) Kevin Omuya is a professional content writer with over three years of experience. At Legit.ng, he has contributed to extensive research on various topics such as celebrity news, fashion, and biographies. He has also worked as an editor and content creator at SportsCulture and CottageMed. In 2019, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism & Digital Media from KCA University. You can reach him through his email: komuya89@gmail.com
