=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Telegram's Animated Emoji Set - Emojipedia]
Jul 9, 2023 · Telegram’s animated Telemoji emoji sticker designs are now available to view on Emojipedia. First launched in August of 2019 with just five emojis, the set has grown to over 600 animated designs.
URL: https://blog.emojipedia.org/telegrams-animated-emoji-set/

[Celebrating 6 Years of Telegram]
For some reason, we started writing this backwards – from the latest update to the primordial summer of 2013. And then it was too late to change the order because the guy who compiled the post said he would go on a hunger strike if we tried. So if you're a fan of chronology, please jump to the endand scroll up from there. (By the way, we decided we...
URL: https://telegram.org/blog/6-years

[Telegram (software) explained]
In August 2019, Telegram introduced animated emoji, [136] larger versions of familiar emoji with unique animations. In September 2021, Telegram added interactive emoji, a type of animated emoji which also play a fullscreen effect in the chat. [137]
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Telegram_Messenger/

[Telegram (software) - Wikiwand]
In August 2019, Telegram introduced animated emoji, [147] larger versions of familiar emoji with unique animations. In September 2021, Telegram added interactive emoji, a type of animated emoji which also play a fullscreen effect in the chat. [148]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Telegram_Messenger_LLP

[Telegram turns 10: Top iconic features - Croma Unboxed]
Aug 14, 2023 · Animated stickers Most apps had been using stickers, which were essentially larger emojis. However, just like emojis, stickers too were, well, lifeless. That changed when Telegram introduced animated, interactive stickers in January 2015. The feature would allow stickers to play a short animation when sent, and repeat the same when tapped on ...
URL: https://www.croma.com/unboxed/telegram-turns-10-top-features-that-changed-instant-messaging


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Telegram's Animated Emoji Set - Emojipedia] ---
Telegram's Animated Emoji Set Telegram’s animated Telemoji emoji sticker designs are now available to view on Emojipedia. First launched in August of 2019 with just five emojis, the set has grown to over 600 animated designs. Telegram’s animated Telemoji emoji sticker designs are now available to view on Emojipedia. First launched in August of 2019 with support for just five different emojis, the Telemoji sticker set has grown to include over 600 animated designs with support for emojis from up to September 2021’s Emoji 14.0 recommendations. You can view all of the animated Telemoji designs that have an emoji codepoint or sequence within Unicode here. Telemoji updates tend to arrive every few months, adding animated sticker support for a small number of additional emojis each time. At the time of writing, the last update was released in March 2023. Therefore while support for popular Emoji 15.0 recommendations such as Shaking Face and Pink Heart has yet to be provided by Telegram, they can be expected to be added to the Telemoji set in the near future. Are these animated Apple emojis? Yes and no. The Telemoji sticker designs are heavily based on the Apple emoji design set, which is the default emoji set used by Telegram messenger across all devices and platforms instead of displaying platform-native emojis. In August 2022, the sticker designs' derivative nature lead to a Telegram for iOS update being held up until the expanded animated Telemoji support was removed from the iOS update. However, the latest version of Telegram for iOS supports the same set of animated emoji stickers as Telegram for Android, at least when it comes to sending the animations in block sticker format. How to use an animated Telemoji The animated Telemoji designs are activated when a user sends a single emoji in a message. If that individual emoji has an equivalent animated Telemoji design, the animated sticker will be sent Users can tap on the Telemojis to replay their animations, and select Telemojis also have fullscreen “interactive emoji” effects that appear simultaneously for both chat partners when activated. When sent on their own, emojis that have yet to be given a Telemoji animation will be rendered either in their Apple emoji design or a static version of their animated Telemoji design, which is just subtly different from its Apple design. This is also the case when multiple emojis are sent side-by-side without any other text, regardless of whether or not one or more of the emojis is supported within the Telemoji set. The return of animated emojis? When the first small number of animated Telemoji stickers debuted in August 2019, they could be considered an interesting throwback to a time gone by - specifically, to some of the earliest emoji sets from early 2000s Japan. For example, the first color emoji launched by Softbank in November of 1999 featured a considerable number of animated designs, as did subsequent sets released by both Softbank and au by KDDI. While Google did create an animated emoji set for Gmail in the late 2000s, the modern emoji sets used by the majority of global emoji users such as those from Apple, Samsung, and Microsoft have until recently always been static in nature. The only notable exception here is the Skype set of animated emoticons, though these designs were of course limited to use within the Skype platform and implemented by shortcodes instead of being based on Unicode-recommended codepoints or sequences. Yet since the initial launch of Telemoji, we have seen not just seen the expansion of Telegram's Unicode-based animated emoji set but also the launch of two additional animated emoji sets, namely the 3D animated Fluent set found within Microsoft Teams and the animated version of Google's Noto Color Emoji set which can be found within the Messages by Google mobile app. At the time of writing, the Microsoft Teams animated 3D Fluent set is the largest animated Unicode-adjacent emoji design set, featuring over 800 different animations. Telegram's Telemoji is the second largest with over 600, followed by the animated Google Noto Color Emoji set with over 300 animations. The freemium emoji vendor JoyPixels also has an animated subset of its licensable emoji designs available, supporting almost 200 emojis as of September 2020. There have been reports that WhatsApp is also developing its own set of animated emoji designs for its messaging platform. While the above makes it feel like a new age of widespread animated emojis could be approaching, we shouldn't consider our currently ubiquitously static emoji designs as an endangered species. Currently, these animations are currently all limited to when a single emoji is sent on its own within the platform. As discussed above, when more than one emoji is sent within a message or an emoji is sent alongside text (as the vast majority of emojis are when used), then a static emoji design will be used instead of an animated sticker design. This is the case for Microsoft Teams, Messages by Google, and Telegram's Telemoji... with one slight caveat for Telegram Premium users. Users who opt to pay for Telegram Premium appear to be able to see animated emoji designs within messages, akin to how animated emojis once appeared within the aforementioned Softbank and au by KDDI sets. These are accessed through the platform's "Custom Animated Emoji" feature, which also appears to support a whole host of non-Unicode-based emoji-esque designs within the body of messages. However, we here at Emojipedia have been unable to replicate the image below within our own version of Telegram. Even with this apparent support for within-text animation available for Telegram Premium users, we believe that animated emoji sets are still very far from being considered a threat to our long-standing static emoji sets. Given the manner in which they are currently being implemented across different platforms, animated emoji sets should be considered a new complimentary emoji-based feature, akin to the emoji reactions found across the likes of Facebook and WhatsApp or indeed the Emoji Kitchen sticker tool within Gboard for Android. They are not a replacement for our static emoji sets - instead, they're a testament to the emoji keyboard's prominent place within our day-to-day digital communications. So, while animated emoji sets are indeed a throwback to an emoji time gone by, we're not back to seeing texts like the one shown below. At least not yet, and not without Telegram Premium. Read More - First Look: Google's New Emoji Bonanza - Microsoft Teams' 3D Fluent Emojis - Skype Emoticons Now on Emojipedia - The Rise and Fall of Animated Emoji


--- [Celebrating 6 Years of Telegram] ---
We launched Telegram 6 years ago, on August 14, 2013 – and immediately set to work on the next update. That‘s how it’s been ever since. After a little while we noticed that our work not only brings progress to Telegram – but also results in the evolution of messaging as a whole. It is heartwarming to see our solutions and design decisions adopted as de facto standards across the board. To keep you entertained while we‘re working on this month’s second update, we've compiled a brief history of Telegram. It ended up rather on the ‘humongous’ side of ‘brief’ – but it's not like the next update is tomorrow either. So read on. Oh, and if you want to give us a gift, bring two of your best friends to Telegram today. For some reason, we started writing this backwards – from the latest update to the primordial summer of 2013. And then it was too late to change the order because the guy who compiled the post said he would go on a hunger strike if we tried. So if you're a fan of chronology, please jump to the end and scroll up from there. (By the way, we decided we're going to keep this post up to date as new updates arrive.) Scheduled Messages, Reminders, Custom Cloud Themes and More Privacy The end of summer brought scheduled messages and reminders to better keep track of important tasks and appointments. On the visual side, shareable Custom Cloud Themes came to all platforms, along with more animated emoji. An important privacy option was added for those who need it most – Who Can Find Me By My Phone Number. This new setting can prevent random users (or government organizations) from being able to match a number from their device's contacts to your Telegram account. On Telegram since September 2019: Silent Messages, Slow Mode, Admin Titles and More The August update brought a way to send silent messages – which result in a notification without sound. We also added custom titles and a slow mode for group admins. But you probably remember this, it's only been a week. Following the success of animated stickers, this update also introduced animated emoji for , , , and . More followed. On Telegram since August 2019: The July update introduced animated stickers. We managed to achieve a smooth 60 FPS at just 20-30 KB per sticker. Animated stickers consume less bandwith than static ones and less battery than GIFs, while commanding more attention than the two combined. Here are some sample animated sets in case you missed them: Hot Cherry, Tidy Tie Tom, Resistance Dog, Fred the Pug, Melie the Cavy, Earl the Wolf, Egg Yolk These stickers are powered with uranium and dreams and are guaranteed to keep going forever. On Telegram since July 2019: Location-Based Chats, Adding Contacts Without Phone Numbers and More The June update focused on making it easier to add people to contacts. A universal Add button was introduced to all new chats, making it possible to add users to contacts even if you don't know their number yet. A new Add People Nearby section was created to quickly exchange numbers with people close to you. The new section also allows creating location-based public chats. On Telegram since June 2019: Focused Privacy, Discussion Groups, Seamless Web Bots and More The second May update made Telegram Privacy Settings even more flexible. You can add whole groups to ‘Never Share’ or ‘Always Share’ exceptions. Settings will adjust automatically as people join and leave the groups. On Telegram, your phone number was never visible to random people in groups, the default being ‘My Contacts’. This update offered even more control via Settings > Privacy & Security > Phone Number. The update also introduced an easier way to integrate web services with Telegram, adding one-tap authorization via bots. Last but not least, it offered two new ways of adding comments to channels – via Comments.app and connected discussion groups. (We didn't start the flame war.) On Telegram since May 31, 2019: Archived Chats, a New Design on Android and More The first May update introduced Archived Chats. Unmuted chats pop out of the archive with the next incoming message – but muted chats stay archived forever (or until they generate a notification via a mention or reply). An unlimited number of chats can be pinned in the archive. Android design got a major overhaul. Aside from the visual improvements, this update added a three-lines-per-chat view option for the Android chat list (similar to the iOS default), as well as bulk actions in the chats list to easily delete, archive or mute multiple chats at once. On Telegram since May 9, 2019: Taking Back Our Right to Privacy Before the March update, you could delete your messages within 48 hours of sending them. As of this update, you can delete any message you've ever sent or received in any private chat, there's no time limit. This also applies to clearing entire chats. The deleted messages don't leave a mark in the chat. This update also introduced a setting for Anonymous Forwards, allowing you to control when messages forwarded from your account link back to it. This way people you chat with have no verifiable proof you ever sent them anything. On Telegram since March 2019: Autoplaying Videos, Automatic Downloads and Multiple Accounts Following the February update, smaller videos start playing without sound when they reach your screen. Pressing the volume buttons on your device unmutes them. This update also introduced presets for autodownload settings to switch between Low, Medium, High and Custom data consumption in a few taps. Default settings for data usage have become more generous but depend on the affordability of mobile data in each particular country. As of this update, iOS users can also log in to Telegram with multiple accounts from one app, easily switch between them and get notifications. Support for multiple accounts was added to Android in December 2017. On Telegram since February 2019 Chat Backgrounds 2.0: Make Your Own The second update in January brought chat wallpapers to version 2.0, adding support for motion and blur effects, plain color backgrounds and patterns, as well as an option to share backgrounds via links and find new ones in search. For those who appreciate art history, the classical Telegram backgrounds which were used at launch can be found here. On Telegram since January 31, 2019 Group Permissions, Undo Delete and More The first January update brought group permissions, allowing admins to restrict all members from posting specific kinds of content or even from messaging altogether. The maximum size for groups was doubled to 200,000 members. The update also added an ‘Undo’ option after deleting chats or clearing history. It's like a time machine, but with fewer paradoxes. On Telegram since January 21, 2019 Polls: Bringing Choice to Communities As of the second update from December '18, Telegram users can create polls in groups and channels, letting group members vote anonymously. Poll bots have been available since the dawn of the Bot Platform. On Telegram since December 22, 2018 Custom Languages, Instant View 2.0 and More This first December update in 2018 revolutionized app interfaces, adding custom languages – whether that's Māori, Scottish Gaelic or Transliterated Klingon. Qapla'. Users can share translated language packs with dedicated sharing links. Everyday be talk like a pirate day if ye've downloaded the pirate speak chest. Babel fish now optional. On Telegram since December 10, 2018 Introducing Telegram 5.0 for iOS Telegram for iOS was rebuilt from scratch for this update – using the Swift programming language. The new client is slicker, faster and more battery-friendly. If the old Telegram was a race car, this one is a race car with jet engines and a well-caffeinated driver. New badge counter settings were added on iOS, allowing users to exclude messages from muted chats or count unread chats instead of messages. The native macOS client added swipe gestures to navigate interfaces. MacBook Pro owners got touch bar support. On Telegram since October 2018 Chat Export Tool, Better Notifications and More This update brought an easy way to download copies of your chats, including photos and other media using Telegram Desktop. August '18 also saw the birth of Notification Exceptions – a way to customize notification settings for particular users. On Telegram since August 2018 Telegram Passport was launched as a unified authorization service for ICOs, financial services and other platforms based on real-life ID. You no longer have to upload scans of your ID each time a different service requires it. On Telegram since July 2018 Replace Media, Share vCards, Mark as Unread, 2X Voice Messages, and More The June '18 update brought the ability to replace photos and videos when editing messages – in case you accidentally sent a picture of your lunch instead of the company's new logo. As of this update, voice and video messages can be played at 2x speed and users can mark chats as read or unread. On Telegram since June 2018: Sticker Search, Multiple Photos and More Since they were introduced, stickers have become a key method of communication for many Telegram users. As of this update, users can search for new sticker packs. I'm not addicted to sending stickers. I can stop any time. 200,000,000 Monthly Active Users Telegram has never been promoted with ads, so every user joined because they were invited by others. Telegram is more than a messaging app, it's the idea that everyone on the planet has a right to be free. On Telegram since March 2018: Two updates were launched on February 6, 2018. Streaming and Auto-Night Mode on Android This was when the apps got streaming support, allowing you to view videos without waiting for them to fully download. This update also introduced auto-night mode for Android users, shielding weary eyes from bright light when browsing memes in bed. Another update introduced the Telegram Login Widget for external websites, empowering businesses to use Telegram bots to automate anything from customer support to accepting payments or tracking shipments. On Telegram since February 2018 Two updates were launched on January 31, 2018. Telegram X: Progress through Competition Two Telegram X clients were unveiled as alternatives to the main iOS and Android apps – built from the ground up to be faster and easier to use, while featuring smooth animations and a sleek design. Telegram X for iOS has since become the native client on iPhones around the world. TDLib - Build Your Own Telegram The Telegram Database Library helps developers make their own versions of Telegram – and was used to create Telegram X for Android. TDLib handles network implementation, encryption, and local storage, giving third-party developers more time to focus on the fun parts of app design. All the API methods are fully documented and the code is available on GitHub. Both Telegram X and the Telegram Bot API are an example of what can be done with this library. On Telegram since January 2018 Themes, Multiple Accounts and More Themes came to iOS, with simple ‘Day’ and ‘Night’ options. We considered adding a ‘Twilight’ option but it got sabotaged by lovesick vampires and werewolves. Android added support for multiple accounts, to quickly switch between up to three profiles (or personalities) without logging out. On Telegram since December 2017 Albums, Saved Messages and Better Search Albums and Saved Messages came to Telegram in November as a way to cut down on clutter and keep things organized. Multiple media items could be sent as one message, neatly arranged instead of filling up the chat with individual messages and multiple notifications. Saved Messages brought bookmarks and personal storage, giving users the ability to forward messages there for later reference. On Telegram since November 2017 Live Locations, Media Player and Languages October '17 expanded location sharing to include a live feed, useful for finding your friends or seeing how far they are from a destination. The interactive maps support multiple users, so your entire group can share their locations and see each other in one place. Telegram also expanded its localization, launching the Translations Platform for users to refine the currently-available translations. On Telegram since October 2017 Better Replies, Stickers & Invitations Keeping track of replies and mentions was streamlined in August’s update, adding the new ‘@’ badge to the chat list, and ‘@’ button inside chats to jump from mention to mention. The option to set favorite stickers was added, while groups got the ability to choose official sticker sets. On Telegram since August 2017 Disappearing Media, Your Bio & More Speed July’s update added a self-destruct timer for photos and videos to give users the option to send disappearing media in Private Chats. To help say a little more about themselves, user profiles were given a bio section. On Telegram since July 2017 Supergroups 10,000: Admin Tools & More Groups leveled up in June '17, increasing the maximum members to 10,000 and introducing a suite of new tools to manage the masses. Admin permissions became individual, allowing for specific privileges. So did members’, meaning people could be put under custom restrictions for acting up. The Recent Actions page was added for admins, showing a summary of all notable group activity within the past 48 hours. On Telegram since June 2017 Three updates were released on May 18, 2017. Video Messages and Telescope Just in time for Summer, video messages were introduced to add another dimension to chats and channels. Instant Views for Everyone & a $200K Contest Instant View grew into a platform for reformatting articles from the Web into lightweight, uniform pages which instantly open in Telegram, rather than a browser. A contest to create new templates was launched. Payments for Bots Bot payments joined the pool party as well, so users could pay for goods and services right in the app. On Telegram since May 2017 Voice Calls: Secure, Crystal-Clear, AI-Powered March '17 brought voice calls to Telegram, featuring end-to-end encryption, crisp sound and incredible speed. The video editor received a compression slider to change the quality at which a video is sent. On Telegram since March 2017 Custom themes first came to the Android phone app, along with a theme editor, giving users the ability to recolor individual elements and share their creations with others. Telegram Desktop reaches version 1.0 – and it's BEAUTIFUL Telegram Desktop, first launched in January '14, reached version 1.0, with a new design, refined animations and custom theme support, in addition to all its earlier features. The GMail bot made its debut as well, allowing users to condense all their communications into one platform. Telegram came to wrists with its Android Wear 2.0 version, featuring fully-functional messaging capability, plus added themes to keep things chic. On Telegram since February 2017 Unsend Messages, Network Usage, and More Telegram rang in the New Year with a completely new feature - the ability to unsend messages sent within the past 48 hours. To keep track of users' data consumption, Network Usage was added to Settings. On Telegram since January 2017 Meet the Telegraph API for Logins and Stats The Telegraph API opened to the public in the final update of 2016. Publishing and organizing articles gained automated support with the new @Telegraph bot. On Telegram since December 20, 2016 Pinned Chats and IFTTT Integrations Conversation management became easier with the option to pin chats to the top of the chat list. IFTTT integration was introduced to help link Telegram to over 360 services at launch. This gives users control over their accounts on other services straight from the Telegram app – including social media, mail clients and even things like smart appliances or other devices. On Telegram since December 7, 2016 Instant View, Telegraph, and Other Goodies Instant View came in November 2016, instantly loading articles and web pages all inside the Telegram app. Added in the same update, the Telegraph platform is a minimalist word processor compatible with Instant View, designed for quickly publishing documents and articles. On Telegram since November 2016 This is where wide full-color illustrations for our blog posts end – or begin, depending on which direction you just came from. With winter not far off, Telegram introduced a Games platform that allows users to play games through bots. Players get the chance to challenge friends, while creators have an easy and accessible way to bring their game ideas to life. On Telegram since October 2016 Photo Editor 2.0, Masks and Homemade GIFs In September ‘16, the time came to improve Telegram’s Photo Editor with fun new decorations like masks, text, stickers and drawings. Additionally, the video editor added the ability to make GIFs out of videos by tapping its new ‘Mute’ button. On Telegram since September 2016 Trending Stickers, Storage and More A Trending Stickers option was added so popular sticker packs can be easily found and added to one's collection. Groups received previews so prospective members can see what they‘re about and who’s in them before joining the party. On Telegram since August 2016 Drafts, Picture-in-Picture, and More June '16 brought cross-platform cloud drafts, syncing your unfinished messages across devices. Since then, users have been able to start typing on one device and finish on another. For more multitasking, Picture-in-Picture support was added to let users work and watch simultaneously. On Telegram since June 2016 Edit Messages, New Mentions and More Fast typers rejoiced as the ability to edit sent messages was introduced in all chats. Mentions were expanded to include users without usernames, and Bots were given their own space in the attachment menu for easy access. On Telegram since May 2016 Instant Camera and More 3D Touch Instant camera was added so users could snap and send photos faster, saving the extra thumb-work to make sure the moment is captured. On Telegram since April 28, 2016 Starting in April 2016, inline bots no longer require you to use a keyboard. These software-controlled friends now immediately present clickable options to get results with no typing required. They were also integrated with services like YouTube and Foursquare for easy video and location sharing. This update gave users a new way of sharing media between chats, introducing GIF and sticker previews to make the selection process more straightforward. On Telegram since April 12, 2016 Supergroups 5000: Public Groups, Pinned Posts To keep order as supergroups grew from 1,000 members to 5,000, important announcements could be placed at the top of the screen as pinned messages. Additional moderation tools were introduced that helped prevent spam in public supergroups. This included the ability to report spam, ban a user outright, or simply erase all of their posts from the group. On Telegram since March 2016 Channels got plenty of new features including admin signatures and silent broadcasts. It became possible to edit your messages in channels and supergroups. On Telegram since February 24, 2016 Voice Messages 2.0, Secret Chats 3.0 and… Chatting got easier with raise-to-speak and raise-to-listen functionality, streamlining voice messages by giving a no-tap way to play and record. On the privacy end, users got the ability to restrict who can invite them to groups and channels. On Telegram since February 12, 2016 Inline bots make it possible to use bot services in any chat without adding those bots as members – you just start any message with their username and everything that comes after becomes a query for the bot. These utilities can link Wikipedia articles, post YouTube videos or search for GIFs to entertain friends. Unfortunately, while being very good at fetch, they still can't pull a sled – even after all these years. GIF file size was reduced by 95%, making them load 20x faster. Autoplay for all GIFs was enabled to show off their new-found speed. On Telegram since January 2016 Clearing Cache and Reordering Stickers The space-saving option of clearing cache was introduced, including chat-by-chat specificity. This was coupled with a setting to choose how long to keep media before it gets deleted from the cache (to be re-downloaded from the cloud should you need it again). On Telegram since December 2015 This update added the admin role. Admins have the power to manage group chats and enforce rules. Just in time, as the maximum number of users for group chats grew to 1,000 people with the addition of supergroups. On Telegram since November 2015 Channels: Broadcasting Done Right September '15 brought channels, the perfect tool for broadcasting messages to the masses. Channels can have unlimited followers, offer view counters for each post and only let the admins post. These one-way chats give updates the spotlight by moving the discussion elsewhere. Channels were quickly adopted in regions where freedom of speech falls short. On Telegram since September 2015 Shared Links and Recent Searches Telegram delivered quality of life updates in August '15, showing shared links on chat info pages as well as a list of recent searches when beginning a new one. On Telegram since August 2015 In-App Media Playback and Search in Chats This update added the ability to view media, enjoy music and watch videos from external sources directly in the app. Chat-specific search was implemented as well, making it easier to find messages from a particular conversation. On Telegram since July 2015 In June of 2015, Telegram released the Bot API and created a platform for users to create and publish their own bots. Bots exist to add features to Telegram and make user's lives easier - bots can handle payments, moderate groups, fetch emails and much more. Telegram also received Apple Watch support. With a flick of the wrist, users can view recent chats, reply with stickers, dictate messages and more. Anything that can't fit on the watch display gets a shortcut to open on your phone instead. On Telegram since June 2015 Since May '15, stickers can be uploaded and shared as sticker sets. All apps got a dedicated sticker panel. Tapping on any sticker shows its set and lets you add the lot. On Telegram since May 2015 Migrating Existing Group Chats to Telegram Invite links were added so users can easily bring their friends to group chats, even when those friends are lost in another messenger. Users gained the ability to caption photos, so the context and content can be sent as one message. Active Sessions and Two-Step Verification Telegram rolled out an essential privacy feature in April 2015 - Two-step Verification – adding an extra layer of protection by requiring a password when logging into a new device. Link previews were introduced to help users see where a link leads without having to click on it and find out for themselves. On Telegram since April 2015 Sending Files On Steroids — And More This update brought the ability to send multiple files at once and trim videos before sending them. On Telegram since March 25, 2015 Reinventing Group Chats: Replies, Mentions, Hashtags and More March '15 made messaging more convenient – Telegram added replies, mentions and hashtags. Replies make it easier to keep continuity in group chats, while mentions help get someone's attention and hashtags allow users to label messages for future use. On Telegram since March 19, 2015 Photo Editor and Passcode Lock February '15 delivered the most powerful photo editor among messaging apps – featuring auto-enhance, crop and rotate functions in its initial version. To keep those photos and chats secure, users were given the option to lock their app with a passcode. On Telegram since February 25, 2015 This update introduced the Files tab to better view all documents shared in a particular chat (some media outlets mistakenly thought this was when we introduced sending files). Additionally, the update brought in Mute shortcuts, helping users disable notifications more quickly. On Telegram since February 1, 2015 January '15 saw the first sticker on Telegram. Since then, starting a message with a single emoji brings up a list of emotionally corresponding sticker suggestions. The first official stickers from Telegram formed the classic Great Minds set. Artists were invited to publish their work on the free and open platform. On Telegram since January 2015 Telegram.me, Changing Numbers, PFS and more Users with usernames were offered Telegram.me/username links, which open their profile page in Telegram. This update also enabled changing the phone number of a Telegram account. Single-column mode was added for Telegram Desktop, making multitasking easier on smaller screens. Fun fact: In 2016, Instagram will restrict users from adding Telegram.me (and Snapchat) links to their bios. On Telegram since December 2014 There were two Telegram updates on November 19, 2014. Hiding Last Seen Time - Done Right This update expanded Privacy Settings to cover Last Seen status, allowing unprecedented flexibility with ‘Always Share With’ and ‘Never Share With’ exceptions for individual users. This was also when account self-destruction was introduced. Telegram doesn‘t aim to accumulate and store your data when you don’t need it anymore. So if you throw away your SIM card and it gets a new owner in 6 months, they won't access your chats. Material Design on Android, Instant Search for Messages and more November '14 also delivered Instant Full-Text Search to iOS and Android. Since then you can quickly find any message you ever sent or received on Telegram. GIF search was first supported on iOS. The Android app got a massive redesign, consistent with material guidelines. On Telegram since November 2014 Public usernames, smaller timers for Secret Chats, and more October '14 marks the beginning of properly recorded history on Telegram. The first update ever to be described in a blog post brought public usernames, adding the ability to share your Telegram contact without disclosing your phone number. Secret Chats got a major upgrade, with self-destructing media showing blurred thumbnails and starting the countdown only after they are first opened. This prevented them from disappearing before actually being viewed. This was also when screenshot notifications were first introduced. Telegram for Android received several updates, adding support for Android Wear and tablets, as well as video compression. On Telegram since October 2014 GIFs, iPad support and broadcast lists on iOS Telegram has supported iPads since September '14. In this update, the iOS app learned to play GIF animations and added cloud search for messages, as well as adding search by file name to the Shared Documents section. iOS also caught up with Android, adding support for broadcast lists. On Telegram since September 2014 Broadcast lists were first introduced to Android in August '14, only to be replaced with channels a little over a year later. On Telegram since August 2014 Multiple photo upload and more Telegram for Android caught up with iOS, allowing users to preview photos before sending — as well as select and send many photos at once. Notifications were improved to be more reliable. On Telegram since June 2014 Voice Messages, Delete Messages for both sides in Secret Chats, Language Settings on Android The March '14 update introduced voice messages to Telegram. Messages deleted in Secret Chats began disappearing for both sides. Telegram for Android added the option to change the app language in Settings. The first languages to be added were German and Italian. On Telegram since March 2014 New apps, autodownload settings and contact management tools for Android More Telegram apps entered the fray. An unofficial Telegram app for Web was introduced and later moved to web.telegram.org to become the official web version. Telegram for Windows Phone was created in a contest for app developers. Meanwhile, an update introduced autodownload settings and new tools to manage contacts on Android. On Telegram since February 2014 First thing in 2014, Telegram allowed documents of any type to be sent, including .pdf, .doc, .png, .mp3, etc. The size limit is 1,5 GB per file. An unofficial Telegram app for PC was announced, which would later become the official Telegram Desktop. On Telegram since January 2014 Crowdsourcing a more secure future The only significant vulnerability to ever be discovered in the MTProto protocol was fixed during the First Telegram Crypto Contest. The researcher who discovered it was awarded a bounty of $100,000. On Telegram since December 2013 After a contest for Android developers, the alpha version of Telegram for Android was officially launched. Telegram apps got Secret Chats with self-destruct timers. The MTProto Protocol specification and Telegram API were fully documented and the code of the apps became open source. On Telegram since October 2013 Telegram for iOS was launched. Congratulations on completing this (not very) brief course on the history of Telegram. You just got an honorary PhD in Instant Messaging – unless you simply jumped down here, in which case you still have a long way to go to get back to the top. Armed with this much knowledge, you should probably join our Volunteer Support Force. And if that‘s not your cup of tea – just tell us in the comments which feature you didn’t know existed. August 15, 2019 The Telegram Team


--- [Telegram (software) explained] ---
In many English-speaking countries, a telegram messenger, more often known as a telegram delivery boy, telegraph boy or telegram boy was a young man employed to deliver telegrams, usually on bicycle. In the United Kingdom, they were employed by the General Post Office; in the United States, they worked for Western Union or other telegraph companies. Telegram boys became popular in the United Kingdom after the General Post Office took over control of inland telegraphs from the railways and private telegraph companies. Many of the boys employed by these services to deliver telegrams transferred to the Post Office. In some respects the life of a telegram boy was not unlike that of someone in military service. They were expected to behave in a manner befitting one who wore the uniform of the Queen, and were required to complete a daily drill. From 1915 to 1921, morning exercise was added to these requirements. During the 1930s the Post Office introduced motorcycles. This started in Leeds where boys aged 17 were allowed to volunteer for training, but only with the permission of their parents. However, following the success of this, motorcycles were soon introduced elsewhere in the country. The fleet was comprised almost exclusively of BSA B33-1 250cc motorbikes which boys were expected to ride at an average of 15 mph. Later 125cc BSA Bantams were used. These were finally replaced with smaller Raleigh and Puch models. During its heyday in the 1930s, the service was delivering an average of 65 million telegrams per year; however, the service was running at a loss, estimated at £1 million annually. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s the use of telegrams had dropped significantly, with around 10 million sent annually in the mid-1960s. Consequently, the Post Office took the decision in 1977 to abolish the service. The service continued for a few years and was briefly operated by British Telecom after it split from the Post Office. British Telecom announced on 19 October 1981 that the telegram would be discontinued,[1] and it was finally taken out of service on 30 September 1982 after 139 years in the United Kingdom.[2] The telegram as such was superseded by the British Telecom Telemessage service, introduced in October 1982.[2] Messages were dictated over the telephone or sent via telex, printed, and delivered overnight by first class post in a distinctive envelope guaranteed for next day delivery, rather than by messenger.[2] Telegraph boys (also referred to as district messenger boys, telegraph messenger boys, or simply as messenger boys) were uniformed young men between 10 and 18 years of age who carried telegrams through urban streets. In most areas they used bicycles; in some dense areas they went on foot. Unlike the men in the telegraph office who worked indoors on fixed wages under close supervision, enjoyed union benefits, and managed the electrical transfer of information, telegraph boys worked outdoors under no supervision on piece wages, saw no union benefits, and managed the physical aspect of the industry in the form of handwritten or printed paper messages. Boys reported for work in the morning clad in their uniforms and awaited their assignments, receiving payment by the mile. Though some chose to travel by foot, bicycles were required for distant destinations. John Dickinson of Dallas, Texas accumulated more than 16,000 miles between April and September 1916. Western Union bought 5,000 bicycles a year and resold them to their telegraph boys nationwide at a discount. A local fleet might number from one to three dozen or more. Companies were responsible for providing uniform laundries, locker rooms, assembly halls, and classrooms. In the call-box system developed in 1872, a customer would ring the telegraph office for a messenger who would then speed to the customer's door to pick up a handwritten message and return to the telegraph office to have it sent electrically to its destination. The life could be dangerous. Boys were expected to "scorch" their bicycles in urban traffic. Strikes occurred with messenger boys cycling en-masse to keep scabs from being hired. Boys attended continuation schools on a four-hours-per-week schedule rather than the 36-hour schedule of public schools. During slack times, the telegraph office hid the boys from public view in basements and back rooms where they smoked, read penny dreadfuls, and shot craps. Weekends or evenings might involve taking part in uniformed military drills before the public. At night, the boys might be required to enter the red light districts in connection with their job duties.[3] The demand for telegraph boys fell when companies began reading messages over the telephone.[4] In the autumn of 1913, bicycling telegraph boy Robert Crawford of Washington, D.C. collided with a car carrying President Woodrow Wilson. The President sent his personal physician to attend Crawford. Later, he visited the boy in the hospital and presented him with a new bicycle. "I did not know it was the President's car that I ran into," the boy said. Wilson replied, "I rather thought it was the President's car that ran into you."


--- [Telegram (software) - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Telegram turns 10: Top iconic features - Croma Unboxed] ---
No content
