=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alex Trebek - Wikipedia]
Shortly afterwards, Trebek attended a military college in Quebec, but dropped out when he was asked to shave his head. [14] Trebek's first job at age 13 was as a bellhop at the hotel where his father worked as a chef. [15] Trebek attended Sudbury High School (now Sudbury Secondary School) and then attended the University of Ottawa. [16]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alex_Trebek

[Alex Trebek would’ve turned 85 today. Here’s a look back at ...]
Jul 22, 2025 · After high school, Trebek applied for a military program that would pay for his college. He was accepted and sent to the Royal Canadian Air Force military academy college in Quebec.
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/articles/alex-trebek-ve-turned-85-212736396.html?fr=sycsrp_catchall

[Young Alex Trebek: Why the Jeopardy Legend Almost Became a Priest]
Jan 13, 2025 · Before he was the gray-haired, authoritative icon of American trivia, Alex Trebek was just a kid from a nickel-mining town in Ontario trying to find a rhythm. Most people remember him as the man with all the answers. But honestly? The story of young Alex Trebek is way more chaotic than the polished "Jeopardy!" podium suggests.
URL: https://snomoto.com/young-alex-trebek-why-the-jeopardy-legend-almost-became-a-priest-duz

[Alex Trebek - Wikiwand]
Shortly afterwards, Trebek attended a military college in Quebec, but dropped out when he was asked to shave his head. [12] Trebek's first job at age 13 was as a bellhop at the hotel where his father worked as a chef. [13] Trebek attended Sudbury High School (now Sudbury Secondary School) and then attended the University of Ottawa. [14]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Alex_Trebeck

[Alex Trebek Explained]
Apr 20, 2024 · Shortly after, Trebek attended a military college in Quebec but dropped out when he was asked to cut his hair. [11] Trebek's first job at age 13 was as a bellhop at the hotel where his father worked as a chef. [12]
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Alex_Trebek/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alex Trebek - Wikipedia] ---
George Alexander Trebek (; July 22, 1940 – November 8, 2020) was a Canadian and American game show host and television personality. Regarded as a pop culture icon, he was best known for hosting the syndicated quiz show Jeopardy! for 37 seasons from its revival in 1984 until his death in 2020. Trebek also hosted a number of other game shows, including The Wizard of Odds, Double Dare, High Rollers, Battlestars, Classic Concentration, and To Tell the Truth. He made appearances, usually as himself, in numerous films and television series.
A native of Canada, Trebek became a naturalized American citizen in 1998. For his work on Jeopardy!, Trebek received the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Game Show Host eight times. He died in November 2020, at age 80, after 20 months with stage IV pancreatic cancer. At the time of his death, Trebek had been contracted to host Jeopardy! until 2022.


--- [Alex Trebek would’ve turned 85 today. Here’s a look back at ...] ---
Alex Trebek would’ve turned 85 today. Here’s a look back at what he said about politics, swearing and cancer - Alex Trebek, beloved host of "Jeopardy!" for 36 years, shared personal anecdotes in his memoir "The Answer is ... Reflections on My Life" before his death in November 2020. Editor’s note: This story was originally published in September 2020. Alex Trebek was the beloved face of “Jeopardy!” for 36 years. The longtime host of “Jeopardy!” continued to lead the show even as he underwent treatment for pancreatic cancer. In his memoir “The Answer is ... Reflections on My Life,” published a few months before his death on Nov. 8, 2020, the host went far beyond the quiz show to bring fans into his personal life — including his political views, his history with swearing and how he handled his cancer diagnosis. To celebrate Trebek, who would’ve turned 85 on July 22, here are 12 anecdotes from that memoir. He dropped out of military school Trebek grew up relatively poor. His father, a Ukrainian immigrant, was a chef at a hotel in the mining town of Sudbury, Ontario. After high school, Trebek applied for a military program that would pay for his college. He was accepted and sent to the Royal Canadian Air Force military academy college in Quebec. He lasted three days. Following two days of getting hazed by senior cadets, the final straw came when they were going to cut Trebek’s hair — “I had a good head of hair,” Trebek writes. After getting berated by an officer — “If you don’t have the guts to stick this out, you’re not the kind of person we want in our military” — Trebek called his dad and told him he was coming home. At the train station, Trebek’s dad gave him a hug. “Don’t worry, Sonny,” Trebek recalls his dad saying. “Everything will be all right.” His favorite movie is ... Trebek loves movies about father-son relationships. Which is why “How Green Was My Valley” is his favorite film. The 1941 movie reminds him of his own father. “He was not an educated man. He was not particularly bright. He was just all heart. He didn’t understand nuances of caring. He just poured out his love for me,” Trebek writes. “It didn’t matter what I did, I was never a disappointment to him.” Graduation advice After dropping out of military school, Trebek went back to his high school for grade 13 — a transition year similar to the first year of college. Growing up, Trebek was a good student, but he was mainly known for joking around in class. One teacher, however, recognized his potential. At graduation, that teacher told Trebek: “Alex, you’ve had a good year. Do me a favor. Never lose your love of life.” Those words have stuck with Trebek ever since. He’s never late In eighth grade, Trebek got a job as a bellhop at the hotel where his dad worked. Before his first day, he went on an end-of-school-year trip with his class. He was so tired that he woke up at 11 the next morning — three hours after his shift started. That day, he vowed never to be late to anything again. “If I’m not where I need to be 10 minutes early, I consider myself late,” he writes. “It’s a sign of respect for the job — that you want to do it well and not leave anything to chance.” His history with swearing You’d never guess it from his appearance on “Jeopardy!” but Trebek swears — though not as much as he did in his earlier days. As he explains in his book, it was intentional. Entering the world of broadcasting, Trebek didn’t smoke, drink or do drugs. The “Jeopardy!” host said this made it hard for people to let their guard down, out of fear they’d be judged. “I needed a vice,” he writes. “And so I decided to add more salt to my language. … But it didn’t help me become one of the guys. It just made me look like a jerk. My bad.” Politics “Jeopardy!” largely steers clear of politics — Trebek said he’ll get fan mail from Republicans thinking he’s a Democrat and vice versa. Trebek actually identifies as an independent. “I vote for the person I feel is best suited to deal with the problems at the time. Modern politics pits us against one another,” he writes. “It forces us to choose a side and has convinced us that our side is right and the other side is wrong. … There is no room for compromise. That’s unfortunate. Because most of the great accomplishments of the world have not been made by people who were certain.” His soulmate Trebek considers his second wife, Jean, to be his soulmate (he remains on good terms with his first wife and his stepdaughter from that marriage). The couple got married in 1990 and have two kids together. There’s a 24-year age difference between them, and Trebek recalled how after their engagement, his soon-to-be father-in-law told him: “I guess I won’t be calling you ‘son.’” “With Jean it just happened. … I wasn’t looking for love,” Trebek writes. “But with Jean, I recognized at a gut level that here was someone who was going to complete me as a human being.” A hairpiece Trebek’s chemotherapy treatment has led to hair loss. But the “Jeopardy!” host was already wearing a hairpiece even before his cancer diagnosis in 2019. He started wearing a hairpiece in early 2018, after falling and banging his head on his bathtub. Trebek had to have surgery to remove blood clots from his brain — which left a row of stitches on either side of his scalp. Based on his staff’s reactions, he decided it would be best to cover it up. “In my case the hairpiece makes me look better than my real hair,” he writes. “I probably should’ve started wearing it a long time ago.” Cancer diagnosis Since his cancer diagnosis in March 2019, Trebek has often thought of “Jeopardy!” contestant Cindy Stowell, who had stage 4 colon cancer during her six-game run on the show in 2016. Stowell died just a week before her games aired — prior to that, the show sent her a DVD so she’d be able to watch herself. “I admire how she didn’t want to make a big deal about her illness,” Trebek writes. “And how she didn’t let it keep her from achieving her dreams.” Trebek said he sometimes regrets going public with his diagnosis because he feels like people now look to him for reassurance and strength and he doesn’t want to let them down. “The longer I’ve lived with the cancer, the more my definition of toughness has changed,” he writes. “I used to think not crying meant you were tough. Now I think crying means you’re tough. It means you’re strong enough to be honest and vulnerable. It means you’re not pretending.” He’s optimistic Trebek says he has the “will to survive,” although there are days when the pain and depression is so debilitating that his optimism disappears. He also doesn’t like using the terms “battling” and “fighting” when it comes to cancer, because it implies there are winners and losers. “You get treatment and you get better. Or you don’t. And neither outcome is an indication of your strength as a person,” he writes. “Yet I still believe in the will to live. I believe in positivity. I believe in optimism. I believe in hope, and I certainly believe in the power of prayer.” Trebek also said that “Jeopardy!” invigorates him. Some days, he struggles to make it to the production meeting, or in between taping episodes he’ll be in a great deal of pain. But the minute he walks out onto the set, he feels like himself. He’s thought about retiring Trebek loves “Jeopardy!” but he’ll leave the show if he can’t successfully host anymore. Being 80 and going through cancer treatments, Trebek said the job can be physically and mentally demanding. It’s not as easy to read the clues and it’s harder to concentrate for long periods of time. “You can have … slip-ups in casual conversation with friends. But you can’t get away with that as the host of ‘Jeopardy!’ Whenever it gets to that point, I’ll walk away,” he writes. “And ‘Jeopardy!’ will be just fine. It doesn’t matter who’s the host. … I think ‘Jeopardy!’ can go on forever.” I’m not afraid of dying. One thing they’re not going to say at my funeral as part of the eulogy is, ‘He was taken from us too soon.’ … I’ve lived a good, full life. — Alex Trebek Trebek also said he’s come to terms with his illness and is grateful for the life he’s led. “I’m not afraid of dying,” he writes. “One thing they’re not going to say at my funeral as part of the eulogy is, ‘He was taken from us too soon.’ … I’ve lived a good, full life.”


--- [Young Alex Trebek: Why the Jeopardy Legend Almost Became a Priest] ---
Before he was the gray-haired, authoritative icon of American trivia, Alex Trebek was just a kid from a nickel-mining town in Ontario trying to find a rhythm. Most people remember him as the man with all the answers. But honestly? The story of young Alex Trebek is way more chaotic than the polished "Jeopardy!" podium suggests. He wasn't always the "Professor" of television. In fact, if things had gone slightly differently in the 1950s, he might have spent his life in a monastery instead of a Hollywood studio. The Sudbury Kid and the Trappist Mistake George Alexander Trebek was born in July 1940 in Sudbury, Ontario. His dad, George Edward Trebek, was a Ukrainian immigrant who worked as a chef. His mother, Lucille Lagacé, was Franco-Ontarian. This meant Alex grew up in a bilingual household, a skill that would later make him a unicorn in the broadcasting world. But here’s the kicker: as a teenager, he wasn't dreaming of Emmy Awards. He actually considered the priesthood. He even spent a summer at a Trappist monastery. Apparently, the "vow of silence" thing didn't sit well with a guy who would eventually make a living talking for thirty minutes straight every night. He also had a brief stint in a military college in Quebec, but he dropped out for a very "Alex" reason. They wanted him to shave his head. He liked his hair too much. He left. The CBC Hustle: When Young Alex Trebek Did Everything By the time he got to the University of Ottawa, Trebek was a philosophy major. Philosophy! It explains a lot about his later demeanor—that calm, slightly detached logic. To pay for tuition, he started working nights at the CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation). He literally did everything. He filled in for announcers. He read the weather. He covered horse racing and curling. If there was a microphone and a time slot, Trebek was there. This wasn't the high-glitz world of Los Angeles; it was the grit of 1960s Canadian radio and local TV. In 1963, he landed a gig hosting a show called Music Hop. It was basically Canada’s version of American Bandstand. If you look up footage of a young Alex Trebek from this era, it’s jarring. He’s 23 years old, bouncing around with a skinny tie, surrounded by teenagers dancing to rock and roll. It’s the polar opposite of the man who would later explain the nuances of the Magna Carta to a software engineer from Ohio. Learning to Laugh at the Mistakes Trebek later told the Television Academy that Music Hop was where he learned his most important lesson: how to fail on camera. The show had no cue cards. If you messed up, you just had to keep going. He famously said you have to learn to laugh at yourself, but never at the job. The "Reach for the Top" Era In 1966, Trebek found his true calling: the quiz show. He started hosting Reach for the Top, a Canadian staple where high school students competed in academic drills. This is where the "Academic Alex" persona started to bake. He wasn't just a guy reading questions; he was the authority figure. He was firm. He was fast. He was fair. He stayed with the show until 1973, becoming a household name across Canada. Fun fact: He almost became the host of Hockey Night in Canada around 1971. He was the top choice of the producer, Ralph Mellanby. But the big boss at the time supposedly didn't want a host with a mustache. The mustache stayed. The hockey job went to someone else. Moving South: The American Gamble By 1973, Trebek had hit a ceiling in Canada. His friend Alan Thicke (yes, the Growing Pains dad) encouraged him to move to the U.S. His first American job was a show called The Wizard of Odds. It wasn't exactly a hit—it only lasted a year—but it got him through the door. Throughout the 70s, he became a "utility player" in Hollywood. He hosted: - High Rollers (where he looked like a 70s movie star with the open collar and the thick hair) - Double Dare (the 1976 version, not the Nickelodeon one) - The $128,000 Question He was working constantly, but he wasn't a superstar yet. He was just a very reliable, very handsome Canadian guy who never tripped over his words. Why the Early Years Matter for Fans Today If you want to understand why Alex Trebek was so good at Jeopardy!, you have to look at those early CBC years. He wasn't a "performer" in the way some game show hosts are. He was a journalist first. He treated the clues like news copy. Most people don't realize that when Merv Griffin revived Jeopardy! in 1984, Trebek wasn't just the host—he was a producer too. He brought that "no-nonsense" Canadian sensibility to the show. He insisted on the tournament formats we see today, like the Teen Tournament and the College Championship. He knew those worked because he’d seen them succeed on Reach for the Top decades earlier. Surprising Facts About Early Trebek: - He was a polyglot: His ability to pronounce "Genre" or "Ennui" with a perfect French accent wasn't an act. It was his upbringing. - The Mustache wasn't always there: In his earliest CBC days, he was clean-shaven. The iconic "Trebek Stache" didn't fully take over until the 70s. - He was a "Fixer": Off-camera, Trebek was a notorious handyman. Even when he was a young star, he'd rather spend his weekend fixing a roof or tiling a bathroom than going to a Hollywood party. Taking Action: How to Explore the Trebek Legacy If you’re a fan of the show and only know the "modern" Alex, you’re missing out on the foundation of his greatness. Watch the archival footage. Search YouTube for "Alex Trebek Music Hop" or "Reach for the Top 1960s." Seeing him navigate a room full of dancing 1960s teens gives you a whole new appreciation for his composure. It shows a man who paid his dues in the trenches of local broadcasting before ever becoming a legend. Read his memoir. In The Answer Is...: Reflections on My Life, he goes into depth about his Sudbury roots. It’s a fast read and feels like he's sitting in the room with you, probably wearing a flannel shirt and holding a screwdriver. Appreciate the craft. The next time you watch a game show, notice the pacing. Modern hosts often try to make the show about them. Young Alex Trebek learned early on that the host is the medium, not the message. That’s why he lasted 37 years. He didn't just fall into the job; he built it, brick by brick, from a small radio station in Ottawa to the most famous lectern in television history.


--- [Alex Trebek - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Alex Trebek Explained] ---
| Alex Trebek | | | Birth Name: | George Alexander Trebek | | Birth Date: | 22 July 1940 | | Birth Place: | Sudbury, Ontario, Canada | | Citizenship: | Canadian (1940–present) American (1998–present) | | Alma Mater: | University of Ottawa | | Occupation: | Television personality, game show host, actor | | Years Active: | 1961–present | | Children: | 2 | | Awards: | Order of Canada | | Signature: | SigAlexTrebek.svg | George Alexander Trebek[1] (; born July 22, 1940) is a Canadian-American television personality. He has been the host of the syndicated game show Jeopardy! since it was revived in 1984, and has also hosted a number of other game shows, including The Wizard of Odds, Double Dare, High Rollers, Battlestars, Classic Concentration, and To Tell the Truth. Trebek is contracted to host Jeopardy! until 2022.[2] Trebek has also made appearances in numerous television series, in which he usually played himself. A native of Canada, he became a naturalized American citizen in 1998.[3] Trebek was born in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, on July 22, 1940,[4] [5] [6] the son of George Edward Trebek, a chef who had emigrated from Ukraine as a child, and Lucille Lagacé (born April 14, 1921), a Franco-Ontarian.[7] He grew up in a bilingual French-English household.[8] Trebek's first job was when he was 13; he was a bellhop at the hotel where his father worked as a chef.[9] Trebek attended Sudbury High School, now Sudbury Secondary School and then attended the University of Ottawa.[10] Trebek graduated from the University of Ottawa with a degree in philosophy in 1961.[11] While a university student, he was a member of the English Debating Society. At the time, he was interested in a career in broadcast news, and before completing his degree, Trebek began his career in 1961 working for the CBC. According to Trebek, "I went to school in the mornings and worked at nights; I did everything, at one time replacing every announcer in every possible job".[12] He would eventually read the national news and cover a wide range of special events for the CBC's radio and television divisions, including curling[13] and horse racing. Trebek's first hosting job was on a Canadian music program called Music Hop in 1963.[14] In 1966 he hosted a high school quiz show called Reach for the Top. From 1967 to 1970 he was a host for the CBC, introducing classical music programs including performances by Glenn Gould. For one or two seasons he hosted a weekly skating program. Starting in spring 1969, Trebek also hosted Strategy which aired on week days. In 1973, he moved to the United States and worked for NBC as host of a new game show, The Wizard of Odds. A year later Trebek hosted the popular Merrill Heatter-Bob Quigley game show, High Rollers, which had two incarnations on NBC (1974–76 and 1978–80), and an accompanying syndicated season (1975–76). In between stints as host of High Rollers, Trebek hosted the short-lived CBS game show Double Dare[15] (not to be confused with the 1986 Nickelodeon game show of the same name). Double Dare turned out to be his only game show with the CBS network (he returned to CBS in 1994 to host Pillsbury Bake-Off until 1998), and the first show he hosted for what was then Mark Goodson-Bill Todman Productions, as well as the second season of the syndicated series The $128,000 Question, which was recorded in Toronto. Since the second incarnation of High Rollers premiered while The $128,000 Question was still airing and taping episodes, Trebek became one of two hosts to emcee shows in both the United States and Canada, joining Jim Perry, who was hosting Definition and Headline Hunters in Canada and Card Sharks, which, coincidentally, premiered the same day as High Rollers in 1978 in the United States. Trebek's francophone side was put on display in 1978, in a special bilingual edition of Reach for the Top and its Radio-Canada equivalent, Génies en herbe. In this show Trebek alternated smoothly between French and English throughout.[16] Like other hosts of the day, Trebek made several guest appearances as a panelist or player on other shows. One of his guest appearances was on a special week of NBC's Card Sharks, in 1980. He and several other game show hosts (Allen Ludden, Bill Cullen, Wink Martindale, Jack Clark, Gene Rayburn, and Jim Lange) competed in a week-long round robin tournament for charity. Trebek won the tournament, defeating Cullen in the finals. Trebek also appeared as a celebrity teammate on the NBC game show The Magnificent Marble Machine in 1975, and the Tom Kennedy-hosted NBC word game To Say the Least in 1978. Both of those shows were produced by Merrill Heatter-Bob Quigley Productions, which also produced High Rollers, the show Trebek was hosting during both of those guest appearances. Trebek also was a contestant on Celebrity Bowling in 1976, teamed with Jim McKrell. The duo won their match against Dick Gautier and Scatman Crothers. After High Rollers was cancelled in 1980, Trebek moved on to Battlestars for NBC. The series debuted in October 1981, and was cancelled in April 1982 after only six months on the air.[17] In September 1981 Trebek took the helm of the syndicated Pitfall, which taped in Vancouver and forced him to commute, as he had done while hosting High Rollers and The $128,000 Question in 1978. Pitfall was cancelled after its production company, Catalena Productions, went bankrupt. As a result, he was never paid for that series. After both series ended, Trebek hosted a revival of Battlestars called The New Battlestars that ended after thirteen weeks, then shot a series of pilots for other series for producers Merrill Heatter, for whom he had worked hosting High Rollers and Battlestars, and Merv Griffin. The Heatter pilots were Malcolm, an NBC-ordered pilot featuring Trebek with an animated character as his co-host, and Lucky Numbers, an attempt at a revival of High Rollers that failed to sell. For Griffin, he shot two pilots for a revival of Jeopardy! when original host Art Fleming (a friend of Trebek's) declined to return to the role due to creative differences. This revival sold; Trebek began hosting the revival in 1984 and has hosted ever since. In 1987, while still hosting Jeopardy!, Trebek returned to daytime television as host of NBC's Classic Concentration his second show for Mark Goodson. He hosted both shows simultaneously until September 20, 1991, when Classic Concentration aired its final first-run episode[18] (NBC would air repeats until 1993). In 1991 Trebek made broadcast history by becoming the first person to host three American game shows at the same time, earning this distinction on February 4, 1991, when he took over for Lynn Swann as host of NBC's To Tell the Truth, also for Goodson-Todman, which he hosted until the end of the series' run on May 31, 1991.[19] In 1994, Trebek returned to the CBS network for the first time since hosting Double Dare to host the Pillsbury Bake-Off, which he hosted until 1998. In August 1995 in a return to his broadcast-news roots, Trebek filled in for Charles Gibson for a week on Good Morning America. Trebek was a guest star in season 3 of The X-Files, playing one of two "Men in Black" (human agents charged with the supervision of extraterrestrial lifeforms on Earth, hiding their existence from other humans) opposite Jesse Ventura, in the episode Jose Chung's From Outer Space, which first aired on April 12, 1996.[20] Trebek and Pat Sajak, host of Wheel of Fortune, traded places on April Fools' Day 1997. Pat Sajak hosted Jeopardy! and Alex Trebek hosted Wheel of Fortune with Sajak's wife, Lesly, as Trebek's co-host.[21] Sajak and Wheel of Fortune co-host Vanna White played contestants at the wheel, with winnings going toward charities. Trebek appeared on Celebrity Poker Showdown in 2005. He came in second place in his qualifying game, losing to Cheryl Hines. On May 9, 2008, Trebek was a guest on Jimmy Kimmel Live!. On the program, he discussed his 24-year career as the host of Jeopardy!. Revisiting Kimmel in 2011, he talked about the IBM Challenge on Jeopardy!. Trebek also appears in many commercials for Colonial Penn Life Insurance, of which he is a "compensated endorser", and he reprised his role as host of To Tell the Truth in a 2010 advertisement for DirecTV.[22] In December 2010, Trebek guest-starred on How I Met Your Mother.[23] On March 26, 2014, Alex Trebek made a guest appearance on Hot in Cleveland as himself.[24] On June 13, 2014, Guinness World Records presented Alex with the world record for most episodes of a game show hosted, with 6,829 episodes at the time.[25] On the December 18, 2014 series-finale episode of The Colbert Report, Trebek (introduced as "the one with all the answers") greets Colbert as he boards a sleigh driven by Santa Claus and Abraham Lincoln and leaves the studio for the last time.[26] On June 24, 2018, Trebek returned as a panelist on the ABC revival of To Tell the Truth. On October 1, 2018, Trebek moderated the only debate in the Pennsylvania governor's race.[27] According to news outlets, he wanted to change the flow of the debate to be more conversational instead of the more traditional format. He dominated the debate and talked for 41% of it,[28] often talking about himself without giving candidates time to discuss important political issues.[29] He also made surprising and unprovoked remarks regarding the sexual abuse scandals in the Catholic Church. Trebek later apologized for his performance, stating that he was "naive" and "misunderstood" the role of a moderator. "I offer my sincere apologies to the people of Pennsylvania, a state I dearly love," he said.[30] Trebek married businesswoman Elaine Callei in 1974.[31] The couple had no children and divorced in 1981. In 1990, he married Jean Currivan, a real estate project manager from New York.[32] They have two children, Matthew and Emily. In 1996, Trebek ran the Olympic torch in Jacksonville, Florida, through a leg of its journey to Atlanta.[33] Trebek became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1998.[34] In late 2001 during Jeopardy!s 18th season, Trebek shaved the mustache that he had worn for over 30 years. He wore a fake mustache for the first half of the April 1, 2008, episode as an April Fools' joke.[35] In summer 2014, Trebek regrew the mustache for the 31st season of Jeopardy!, only to shave it off again a month into the season.[36] [37] Trebek grew out a full beard at the beginning of the 2018 season, shaving it down to a goatee for the second episode, and a mustache by the second week.[38] On January 30, 2004, Trebek escaped major injury after falling asleep behind the wheel of his pick-up truck while driving alone on a rural road in the Central Coast town of Templeton, California, returning from a family home in Lake Nacimiento.[39] [40] The truck sideswiped a string of mailboxes, flew 45 feet[41] over an embankment, and came to rest against a utility pole in a ditch. Trebek was not cited for the accident and returned to work taping Jeopardy! the following Tuesday, just four days after the accident.[42] [43] Trebek owned and managed a 700-acre (280 ha) ranch near Paso Robles in Creston, California, known as Creston Farms, where he bred and trained thoroughbred race horses. Trebek's colt, Reba's Gold, is the stakes-winning son of Slew o' Gold.[44] Trebek sold the operation in 2008 and the property is now an event center called Windfall Farms.[45] In 2018, in an interview with Vulture, Trebek stated that he was a political moderate and registered independent, neither conservative nor liberal, with some libertarian leanings.[46] On December 11, 2007, Trebek suffered a minor heart attack in his home, but returned to work as scheduled in January.[47] [48] [49] He injured an Achilles tendon, requiring six weeks in a cast, while chasing a burglar who had entered his San Francisco hotel room on July 27, 2011.[50] [51] He suffered a mild heart attack on June 23, 2012,[52] but returned to work in July.[53] On December 15, 2017, over the winter break of Jeopardy! taping, Trebek was admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center after reportedly experiencing complications from a fall in October of that year. The incident resulted in a subdural hematoma.[54] Trebek underwent surgery to remove blood clots from his brain the following day.[55] On January 4, 2018, the verified Twitter account of Jeopardy! announced that Trebek had been suffering from the fall. Trebek required a short medical leave and returned to regular hosting duty in mid-January 2018.[56] In 2018, while being interviewed by Harvey Levin on Fox News, Trebek floated the idea of retirement, saying the odds of him leaving Jeopardy! in 2020 were 50/50 "and a little less". He added that he might continue if he is "not making too many mistakes" but would make an "intelligent decision" as to when he should give up the emcee role.[57] In October that year, he signed a new contract to continue as host through 2022, stating in January 2019 that although he was beginning to slow down due to his age, the show's work schedule, consisting of 46 taping sessions each year, was still manageable.[58] On March 6, 2019, Trebek announced that he had been diagnosed with stage IV pancreatic cancer. In a prepared video announcement of the diagnosis, Trebek noted that his prognosis was poor but that he would aggressively fight the cancer in hopes of beating the odds and would continue hosting Jeopardy! for as long as he was able, joking that his contract obligated him to do so for three more years.[59] Trebek updated the situation in May 2019, stating that he was responding exceptionally well to treatment and that some of the tumors had shrunk to half their previously observed size; he credited the prayers and well-wishes of his fans for the better-than-usual results. He will undergo several more rounds of chemotherapy in hopes of pushing the cancer into full remission.[60] Trebek hoped to beat the odds as only 3% of patients with stage 4 pancreatic cancer are still alive 5 years after being diagnosed.[61] Trebek finished chemotherapy treatments in time to resume taping of the show in August 2019.[62] Trebek hosts the annual The Great Canadian Geography Challenge in Canada and previously hosted the National Geographic Bee in the United States. He hosted the National Geographic Bee until 2013. Active with World Vision Canada, a charitable organization, he has travelled to many developing countries with World Vision projects, taping reports on the group's efforts on behalf of children around the world.[63] Trebek and the entire Jeopardy! crew became involved with the United Service Organizations in 1995 and have appeared on several military bases throughout the world, both in an attempt to find contestants and as a morale booster for the troops.[64] In 1998, Trebek donated 74 acres (30 hectares) of open land in the Hollywood hills (worth over $2 million at the time) to the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy.[65] The American Foundation for the Blind, in 2001, awarded Trebek one of the year's six Access Awards[66] for his role in accommodating notable Jeopardy! champion Eddie Timanus. In 2016, Trebek donated $5 million to the University of Ottawa to fund the Alex Trebek Forum for Dialogue, the objective of which is "to expose students to a wide range of diverse views, through speeches, public panels, events and lectures by University of Ottawa researchers, senior government officials and guests speakers from around the world."[67] Trebek's gifts to the university, which at the time totaled $7.5 million, also fund a Distinguished Speaker Series, which has included a presentation by Nobel laureate Leymah Gbowee, introduced by Trebek. In 2017, Trebek funded the Alex Trebek Leadership Award at the University of Ottawa, an annual $10,000 award to a summa cum laude graduate who has also demonstrated community leadership.[68] In addition to awards for Jeopardy!, Trebek has received a great deal of recognition. In March 2006, it was announced that he would receive a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in Toronto.[69] [70] He is the second game show host to be inducted (the first being Monty Hall of Let's Make a Deal and the third being Howie Mandel of Deal or No Deal). His star is located on King Street West near those of the Crazy Canucks and Eugene Levy. Trebek has been awarded six Outstanding Game Show Host Emmy Awards (1989, 1990, 2003, 2006, 2008 and 2019),[71] [72] and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame (located at 6501 Hollywood Boulevard, near those for Ann-Margret and Vincent Price). On November 4, 2010, Trebek received the Royal Canadian Geographical Society's Gold Medal for his contribution to geographic education and the popular study of geography.[73] Previous recipients of this award include the author and anthropologist Wade Davis (2009), Peter Gzowski (1997), and Mary May Simon (1998).[74] In 2011, it was announced that Trebek would be one of the recipients of the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Daytime Emmy Awards.[75] [76] As of June 13, 2014, Trebek has held a Guinness World Record for "the most gameshow episodes hosted by the same presenter (same program)" for having hosted 6,829 episodes of Jeopardy!,[77] overtaking previous record holder Bob Barker.[78] On May 4, 2015, Trebek's alma mater, the University of Ottawa, named its alumni hall in his honour, as a benefactor to the university.[79] On June 30, 2017, he was named an Officer of the Order of Canada by then Governor General David Johnston for "his iconic achievements in television and for his promotion of learning, notably as a champion for geographical literacy."[80] On June 28, 2019, the Daughters of the American Revolution awarded the 2019 Americanism Award to Trebek.[81] [82]
