=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lumon Industries - Severance Wiki]
Sep 26, 2025 · Lumon Industries Lumon Industries [Lumon Industries logo] [Lumon Industries headquarters] Industry Biotechnology Founded 1865 Founder Kier Eagan Key people Jame Eagan (CEO) Website lumon.industries LinkedIn LinkedIn Founded by Kier Eagan in 1865, Lumon Industries is the world’s leading biotechnology company. Lumon’s first product, a topical salve, was developed in 1866. Every leader of the ...
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/lumon_industries

[Lumon Industries | Severance Wiki - Fandom]
Lumon Industries is a multinational USA-based biotechnology corporation. Their headquarters are located in Kier, PE at their Branch 501 facility. The current CEO is Jame Eagan. Founded in 1865 by Kier Eagan, and subsequently run by generations of Eagans since, Lumon has grown from a business specializing in topical salves to a huge producer of drugs, biotech, medical equipment, cosmetics ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Lumon_Industries

[Who Kier Eagan Is In Severance: His Lumon History, Beliefs & What ...]
Feb 7, 2025 · Severance is slowly revealing the mysteries hiding at Lumon, but one figure who appears prominently continues to be obscured beneath fiction, deceptions, and mystery, Kier Eagan. Kier Eagan is the founder and first CEO of Lumon Industries. As such, he is held in high regard by the employees of the company.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-kier-eagan-lumon-history-death-explained/

['Severance' Eagan Family Tree and Character Guide, Explained]
Feb 12, 2025 · Kier is the founder of Lumon Industries and arguably the most important character in Severance’s backstory. He served as the company’s first CEO for 75 years, from 1865 to 1939. He left many ...
URL: https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a63773548/severance-kier-eagan-family-tree-explained/

[Everything We Know About Kier Eagan, And An Analysis Of His ...]
We really don't know that much about anything Lumon did before Cobel invented Severance, but it's worth noting that Kier's reign encompasses ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SeveranceAppleTVPlus/comments/1pfcc0j/everything_we_know_about_kier_eagan_and_an/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lumon Industries - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Lumon Industries | | | Industry | Biotechnology | |---|---| | Founded | 1865 | | Founder | Kier Eagan | | Key people | Jame Eagan (CEO) | | Website | lumon.industries[1] | Founded by Kier Eagan in 1865,[2]Lumon Industries is the world’s leading biotechnology company. Lumon’s first product, a topical salve, was developed in 1866. Every leader of the company since its founding has been a member of the Eagan family. It is hinted that Lumon is a very large and powerful company, having over a hundred thousand employees and offices in 206 countries with at least five branches in the U.S.[3][4] From their humble beginnings as a topical salve company, Lumon grew into medical technology and other spheres of the tech space. While it is influential across its corporate reach, its headquarters in Kier, PE do the most cutting edge work. Lumon Industries had humble beginnings, and its original logo of a flask, spoon, and drop of fluid reflects its original mandate. This logo is featured on a Signet Ring worn by current Lumon CEO, Jame Eagan, and it can be assumed would pass to his daughter Helena upon his Revolving. The culture at Lumon is dominated by the philosophy and writings of its founder. The company encourages its employees to revere Kier Eagan’s works and follow his principles closely. It is commonplace to quote Kier Eagan as a form of response in conversation. Relationships beyond the platonic are frowned upon by Lumon, as taking heart to other employees is forbidden. Additionally, the workplace is not meant to be repurposed for slumber. The work done at Lumon is mysterious and important. As Mark explains, “we deal with the uncertainty it brings us in the way that Kier would’ve wanted. Together, as a family.” The Eagan philosophy is described as “Illumination beyond all.” Kier Eagan wished Lumon employees to “feel the warm embrace of knowledge and truth. That way we could be true partners in his teachings.” The Courtship of Kier and Imogene[5] In addition to the written materials, the office spaces at Lumon are decorated primarily with formal paintings depicting scenes from the life of its founder. The collection of paintings is vast and is carefully guarded and maintained by the department of Optics and Design, which is located on the Severed Floor. Paintings are rotated throughout the building,[6] giving employees the opportunity to see a variety of images since their movements are monitored and constrained. After Severance Reform, modern motivational posters have been added to the visual stimuli provided to keep the innies happy and comfortable. Lumon Headquarters, which is located at 345 E. Main Street, Kier, PE, is also known as branch 501. Another branch is called 5X.[7] There are nine Core Principles, intended to unite the company’s workforce. They are: According to the copy of the handbook smuggled out by a former employee included in Severance: The Lexington Letter, the principles are meant to overlap and intertwine, emphasizing good social skills to promote the idea that the company is a family. Lumon Industries has an official LinkedIn page, where advertisements, announcements, and statements are posted.[8] Among the published material are ID badges of Macrodata Refinement employees and a series of videos titled “Tour Lumon with Dylan G,” providing a closer look at “the inner workings of the mysterious company.”[9] Lumon’s LinkedIn also warns people not to download The Lexington Letter, stating that they do not “support or confirm its contents.”[10] It should also be noted that this is the first and only time LinkedIn has allowed a fictional company page.[11] Newspaper article titled “Severed Worker Sues for Information Following Injury”[12] Outside the company walls, the power and practices of Lumon Industries are politically controversial. Activists and journalists attempt to expose the truth about the Severance procedure, as it is suggested that the Severance implant might gain wide use elsewhere in society, possibly against the will of the people. After the Macrodat Uprising, Lumon's activities garnered a new sort of attention, to which they have responded with a number of reforms and internal changes. It is notable that the company was founded in the very year that the United States enacted the 13th Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery. If you would like to contribute to this article, please join our Severance Show Discord and submit your suggestions in the #wiki channel.


--- [Lumon Industries | Severance Wiki - Fandom] ---
Lumon Industries is a multinational USA-based biotechnology corporation. Their headquarters are located in Kier, PE at their Branch 501 facility. The current CEO is Jame Eagan. Background[] Founded in 1865 by Kier Eagan, and subsequently run by generations of Eagans since, Lumon has grown from a business specializing in topical salves to a huge producer of drugs, biotech, medical equipment, cosmetics, personal care products, and more. According to the Branch 501 Severed Floor management, Lumon has been active for around 220 years (882 quarters) and operates in 206 countries around the world. Lumon pioneered the severance procedure, which divides a person's consciousness and memory. When severed, a person has no memory or knowledge of their workplace when they are not there, and no memory of the outside world when they are in the office. Much of the action of Severance takes place on Lumon Branch 501's severed floor. Lumon's first Severed offices publicly opened twelve years ago; however, a comment by Burt Goodman's husband Fields suggests that they may have been using Severance for longer than this. Although it is less apparent from the outside than on the Severed Floor, much of Lumon's internal workings resemble that of a religious cult, centered around the reverence of the company's founder, Kier Eagan. Paintings of Kier at various points in his life can be found throughout the Severed Floor, and Severed employees are encouraged to know Kier's sayings and philosophy by heart. In a conversation with his daughter Helena Eagan, current CEO Jame Eagan stated that the company's goal is to distribute Severance chips to every person on the planet, thus making them all "children of Kier." The exact motivation and true meaning behind this remains unknown at present. Lumon’s first product was a topical salve developed in 1866, only a year after the company’s founding, reflecting its early pharmaceutical roots. Its original logo—depicting a flask, spoon, and drop of fluid—symbolizes these beginnings and remains significant today, engraved on the Signet Ring worn by CEO Jame Eagan, a piece of regalia presumed to pass to Helena Eagan upon his “Revolving.” Within Branch 501, the Optics and Design department actively rotates paintings from the Kier Cycle throughout the Severed Floor, carefully curating the visual environment to reinforce ideological messaging. Following Severance Reform, modern motivational posters were introduced alongside traditional reverential imagery to maintain morale among Severed employees. Lumon’s official motto, “United in Severance,” encapsulates its mission of harmonizing humanity through the Severance procedure. In addition to operating in 206 countries, Lumon maintains at least five branches within the United States and holds the distinction of being the first fictional corporation to operate an official LinkedIn page as part of an immersive promotional campaign. Humanitarian Outreach & Global Expansion[] In a rare public-facing initiative, Jame Eagan directed Lumon to tackle the clean water crisis in drought-stricken Sub-Saharan Africa. After a visit to Libono, a severely affected village in northern Lesotho, Eagan established a new internal department focused on delivering clean, alkaline water to underserved communities. This effort led to the development of Klear, a patented filtration system that removes 99.1% of impurities, and Tumwater, a sodium bicarbonate-based organic additive that raises the water’s pH to safe alkaline levels. A groundbreaking underground pipeline—stretching nearly 500 miles—was constructed to bring groundwater to a new filtration center five miles outside Libono. The processed water is then distributed via Lumon wells throughout the village. Six months after deployment, cases of dysentery and hypernatremia plummeted, with residents showing marked improvement in health and vitality. In parallel, Lumon is also planning to open its first international charter school in Libono, expanding its network of over 20 U.S.-based educational institutions. Eagan positioned this initiative as an example of Lumon’s ability to “eradicate suffering” on a global scale, tying directly into the broader ideology of Kier’s vision and the company’s controversial Severance ambitions. The Board[] The Board is the secretive and mysterious agency which directs the activities of Lumon Industries. They have almost exclusively been seen to communicate with Lumon staff using Board Liaison Natalie Kalen as an intermediate. The list of Board members is currently unknown, aside from Jame Eagan.[1] History[] Lumon was founded in 1865 by Kier Eagan in the state of PE, beginning as a producer of topical salves. As of the late 20th Century, the company had expanded considerably and operated facilities in other towns near Kier, including an ether factory in Salt's Neck. Some time after Harmony Cobel graduated from the Myrtle Eagan School For Girls, she invented the neurosurgical technique known as Severance, which would go on to be used by Lumon to create Severed workforces. The credit for the invention of Severance would go to Jame Eagan. Recently, Jame Eagan's daughter Helena elected to undergo Severance as a publicity stunt, with the goal of furthering acceptance of the procedure in mainstream society. During a gala at which Helena was supposed to give a talk about her experiences as a Severed person, her "Innie" persona Helly R. was activated as a result of MDR employee Dylan G. engaging the Overtime Contingency, and seized the opportunity to speak out about Lumon's unethical treatment of Severed workers. This resulted in a flurry of controversy in the news media, forcing Helena to film an apology video where she claimed to have been inebriated while under the influence of a "non-Lumon medication." Departments[] These departments exist on the Severed Floor. Non-severed departments presumably exist, but as yet are shrouded in mystery. - Macrodata Refinement - Optics and Design - Wellness Center - Mammalians Nurturable - Distribution Supply - Disposal and Reclamation - Security Office - Administration - Severance Advisory Council - Choreography and Merriment Other floors, including the Testing Floor, are also known to exist, but the names of any other departments on those floors are not known. Other tenants include: - Diagnostics is a department that can assess whose brain a given Severance chip should be in, as well as look for data signatures to determine who programmed and/or deprogrammed it. - Janitorial and Hygiene is the department devoted to keeping Lumon clean, though whether its workers serve the Severed floor departments is unknown. They have access to the discarded materials of either Research and Development or Diagnostics. The wall display of the Security Office, as well as various computer terminals, show a list of department abbreviations, which include: CE, MDR, TA, W&A, D&R, EQP, CL, WN, and O&D. Except for MDR (Macrodata Refinement), D&R (Disposal and Reclamation), WN (Wellness), and O&D (Optics and Design), the meanings of the other abbreviations are unknown. Employees[] Global Management[] - Board of Directors - Jame Eagan - 8th CEO (2003 - present) - Natalie Kalen - Board Liaison - Mr. Drummond Branch 501[] Severed Floor Management[] - Harmony Cobel - Former Manager of the Severed Floor - Doug Graner - Former Head of Security on the Severed Floor - Seth Milchick - Current Manager of the Severed Floor - Judd - Security Guard of Severed Floor Access Elevator - Eustice Huang - Deputy Manager of the Severed Floor Macrodata Refinement[] - Carol D. - Retired Macrodata Refiner - Dylan George - Senior Macrodata Refiner - Helena (Helly R.) Eagan - Junior Macrodata Refiner - Irving Bailiff - Former Macrodata Refiner - Mark Scout - Current Macrodata Refinement Chief - Peter "Petey" Kilmer - Former Macrodata Refinement Chief Optics and Design[] - Alice K. - Head of Optics and Design - Burt Goodman - Head of Optics and Design (formerly also worked as a "low-level enforcer" for Lumon prior to becoming Severed) - Elizabeth - Designer in Optics and Design - Felicia - Designer in Optics and Design - Oswald - Designer in Optics and Design Mammalians Nurturable[] - Lorne - Department Head - Wyatt - Severed employee - Unidentified Severed man in black goat costume - At least eighteen additional Severed employees Choreography and Merriment[] - Bukayo - Many Severed marching band performers Part-time Severed Staff[] - Ms. Casey (Gemma Scout) - Wellness Director Testing Floor[] - Dr. Mauer - Testing Floor overseer - Cecily - Nurse - Gemma Scout - Test subject Watchers[] The Watchers are a group of four Lumon employees who are tasked with observing the activities of the Lumon Branch 501 MDR team. They are stationed in an unknown room directly below the MDR office with four desks, each of which has a computer monitor which displays live feeds of the MDR team's activities. Each Watcher also physically resembles their assigned MDR team member; the significance of this remains unknown. Topeka Branch[] Severed Floor Management[] - Alvarado - Supervisor of the Severed Floor - Dooley - Head of Security on the Severed Floor Macrodata Refinement[] - Margaret "Peggy" Kincaid - Macrodata Refiner Branch 5X[] - Gwendolyn Y. - Macrodata Refiner - Mark Wilkins - Macrodata Refiner Italian Branch[] - Dario Rossi - Macrodata Refiner Customs[] The Cult of Kier[] The Eagan family and other upper management at Lumon are secretly a religious cult organized around Lumon's founder, Kier Eagan. Severed "Innie" employees on the Severed Floors of Lumon facilities are encouraged to follow the guidance of Kier as described in the three appendices of the Compliance Handbook, and various paintings and other iconography depicting Kier in a reverential light can be found throughout the Severed Floor. Non-Severed Lumon staff members such as Harmony Cobel, Mr. Drummond, and Dr. Mauer refer to themselves as serving Kier and his vision. Shortly before Gemma was planned to be killed at the conclusion of the Cold Harbor test, Mr. Drummond facilitated a ritualistic sacrifice of a baby goat from Mammalians Nurturable, which he stated would be entombed with a "cherished woman" so that it could guide her soul to Kier in the afterlife. Lumon's mysterious, ultimate goal appears to be the worldwide distribution of Severance chips, in order to fulfil Kier's "grand agendum" of eradicating all suffering from humankind. Mr. Drummond described it as Kier's "eternal war against pain", and he has on several occasions emphasised the history-changing ramifications of the Cold Harbor project. Presently, Lumon seems to be testing for any bleed-through effects of negative emotions and past memories in the Severance chip, in an apparent effort to perfect the technology before using it to serve their plans. Lumon's Core Principles[] Lumon upholds nine Core Principles, which are listed in the Compliance Handbook and Macrodata Refiner's Orientation Handbook: - Vision - Verve - Wit - Cheer - Humility - Benevolence - Nimbleness - Probity - Wiles These principles are apparently treated with near-religious significance by certain individuals both inside and outside the company, including Harmony Cobel and her aunt Celestine. The Myrtle Eagan School For Girls appears to employ a system in which each calendar year is assigned a virtue. For example, Harmony Cobel graduated from the school during the Year of Wiles. The Four Tempers[] The Four Tempers are a philosophical framework posited by Kier Eagan, in which he proposed that all human souls are composed of a mixture of four emotions or "tempers" - Woe, Frolic, Dread, and Malice - that must be balanced and controlled in order to live a good and effective life. The Kier Cycle oil painting "Kier Taming the Four Tempers" depicts Kier fighting with anthropomorphized representations of the Four Tempers; the dancers in a Waffle Party also wear costumes modeled after these personifications. Lumon's upper management apparently take the idea of the Four Tempers seriously, as seen when Drummond speaks with Helena following her near-drowning during an ORTBO. The four categories of numbers sorted by MDR Refiners (WO, FC, DR, and MA) correspond to the Four Tempers as they exist within the mind of Gemma Scout. According to the handbook from the Lexington Letter, WO numbers elicit "melancholy or despair", FC elicits "joy, gaiety, or ecstasy", DR elicits "fear, anxiety, or apprehension", and MA elicits "rage or a desire to do harm". The philosophy of balancing the Four Tempers also matches the handbook's to fill "each of five bins evenly with the four kinds of number clusters". The successful "refinement" of an MDR file results in the creation of a new Innie persona for Gemma on the Testing Floor. Kier Cycle Paintings[] Paintings of Kier at various points in his life may be found throughout the Lumon Branch 501 Severed Floor. These are collectively known as the "Kier Cycle." Known paintings include: - A portrait of Kier in his middle age (title unknown) - The Youthful Convalescence of Kier - The Courtship of Kier and Imogene - Kier Invites You to Drink of His Water - Kier Taming the Four Tempers - Kier Pardons his Betrayers - The Exalted Victory of Cold Harbor Kier Hymn[] The Kier Hymn (also referred to as the Kier Anthem[2]) is a song of unknown authorship extolling the virtues of Kier Eagan, the founder of Lumon Industries. A "punitive rendition" of the song was once performed by Harmony Cobel for the members of the Branch 501 Macrodata Refinement team; an 8-bit instrumental version was also played on a TV at the beginning of the Branch 501 MDR team's ORTBO excursion. Lyrics[] Kier, chosen one, Kier, Kier, brilliant one, Kier, Brings the bounty to the plain through the torment, through the rains, Progress, knowledge show no fear, Kier, chosen one, Kier. Notes and Trivia[] - The name "Lumon" may be derived from the Latin word "lumen", meaning "light" or "opening". - In conjunction with the company's historical connections with and manufacturing of ether, "Lumon" also brings to mind the now-debunked concept of the luminiferous aether, a hypothetical medium once believed to be responsible for the propagation of light throughout space. - Lumon Industries is the first and so far only fictional company to create a Linkedin account, which was set up as part of an immersive marketing campaign to promote the first season of Severance. Gallery[] References[] - ↑ Michael Siberry is credited as voicing Jame Eagan in Season 1 Episode 8, when the Board is heard to speak: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0796251/ - ↑ https://x.com/AppleFilms/status/1515032792844931077


--- [Who Kier Eagan Is In Severance: His Lumon History, Beliefs & What ...] ---
No content


--- ['Severance' Eagan Family Tree and Character Guide, Explained] ---
If the joke of Severance is that modern corporations act like cults, then it makes sense that Lumon Industries is led by what is essentially a family cult: the Eagans. The clan at the center of the Apple TV+ drama runs the mysterious business that requires many of its employees to surgically sever their minds from their personal lives. Not only that, but the family also owns the town in which Lumon’s founding office is located (Kier, PE)—and wields enough power to enrapture followers with their bizarre scripture. No one knows exactly what the Eagans are really up to at Lumon Industries. Severance trickles out information episode by episode while viewers inch closer to an answer. All we can say for now is that it likely won’t amount to much good. I just don’t trust that goat room! In the name of searching for more clues, let’s trace the Eagan family tree to find out just how far back the mystery goes. Kier Eagan Kier is the founder of Lumon Industries and arguably the most important character in Severance’s backstory. He served as the company’s first CEO for 75 years, from 1865 to 1939. He left many writings behind, written in a blend of biblical and corporate tones. His teachings—and very likely the creation of the Eagans as a new-age family cult—now make up most of the chapters of the employee Compliance Handbook. In some of the handbook’s passages, Kier describes scenes from his life, including suffering from tuberculosis as a child and noticing a “close biological relationship” between his mother and father. His bout with tuberculosis is also depicted in The Youthful Convalescence of Kier—which is a painting loved by Irving (John Turturro). Kier eventually married a woman named Imogene, whom he met while working at an ether factory. Severance fans glimpse the first time they met in another painting, titled The Courtship of Kier and Imogene. They had two known children together, Ambrose and Myrtle. Sometime in his adulthood, Kier became the leader he’s known as today. He began to spread his beliefs, including his plans to “tame” the four tempers of the human soul: Woe, Frolic, Malice, and Dread. Dieter Eagan Dieter was Kier’s twin brother, whom we only recently learned about in season 2, episode 4. According to the Fourth Appendix, it sounds as if Kier murdered his brother in Woe’s Hollow for masturbating in front of him. You tell me, dear reader, but I’m not buying the fairy tale that Dieter turned into a tree after he “spilt his lineage” all over Mother Nature. Ambrose Eagan Ambrose is Kier’s son and his first successor. However, he led the company only for a short time, from 1939 to 1941. Not much is known about Ambrose or his short tenure as Lumon CEO, so it’s possible that Kier’s son was a bit of a failure. There’s a square on the group’s bingo game during the Perpetuity Wing episode in season 1 that reads, “Passive-Aggressive Shit-Talking of Ambrose.” Another square reads, “Unexplained Eagan death.” Myrtle Eagan Myrtle is Kier and Imogene’s daughter. She was Lumon’s first female CEO, running the company from 1941 to 1959. After whatever happened to Ambrose, Myrtle took over. She also likely founded the Myrtle Eagan School for Girls, which Harmony Cobel (Patricia Arquette) attended. “I think that to be an Eagan, either a true Eagan or anyone working in this Lumon family, what you are is the keeper of an ethos, a compact of values that we have long held as precious, and which I do believe will one day save this world,” her bust in the Perpetuity Wing says. “That ethos goes all the way back through my blood to where we all started, with Kier. When I was a girl, my father would make me whisper … Vision. Verve. Wit. Cheer. Humility. Benevolence. Nimbleness. Probity. Wiles.” Baird and Gerhart Eagan Baird was the fourth Lumon CEO, holding the position from 1959 to 1976. Gerhardt followed Baird as CEO from 1976 to 1987. Not much is known about either Eagan. They are only known as “descendants of Eagan” in the Perpetuity Wing, so it’s unknown exactly how the family tree continues after Myrtle. The neighborhood in Kier, PE, where Mark (Adam Scott) lives is named Baird Creek Manor. Phillip Eagan Known as “Pip” Eagan, the sixth CEO shepherded Lumon Industries from 1987 to 1999. In episode 1, Mark receives a gift card from the company to a restaurant in town named Pip’s Bar & Grille. “Of course they gave you Pip’s,” his sister remarks. Leonora Eagan Lumon’s second female CEO is Leonora Eagan, who led the company from 1999 to 2003. She died relatively young, at 48, but her cause of death is not revealed. Irving’s neighborhood of Leonora Lake is likely named after her. Jame Eagan Jame Eagan (Michael Siberry) is the current CEO, operating since 2003. He bears a resemblance to the founder, Kier, and is the first Lumon CEO to employ the severance technology. Whatever Lumon did before Jame didn’t involve severed employees at all. With this new tech at their disposal, the Eagans and Lumon are supposedly closer to their goal than ever before. Their success all hinges on Mark S.’s completion of a file named “Cold Harbor.” Helena Eagan Presumably next in line as Jame’s successor, Helena Eagan (Britt Lower) doesn’t seem to have a great relationship with her father. Jame tells her that “one day you will sit with me at my revolving.” Despite this, Helena agrees to undergo the severance procedure herself and work on the severed floor to prove its efficacy to the public. Her Innie, Helly R., doesn’t share the same goals. When she discovers that she’s an Eagan in the season 1 finale, Helly R. attempts to tell the world that Lumon is lying to them about what really occurs within their company. In season 2, Helena attends work on the severed floor pretending to be her Innie, Helly R. Mr. Milchick (Tramell Tillman) seems aware of this when he’s forced to save her life at the end of season 2, episode 4. Despite this, her motivations remain unclear. If she was spying on the group for Lumon, why did she sleep with Mark S.? It’s possible that Helena was more interested in why her Innie fell in love with Mark S. than anything else. Who knows with this family! Check back here after the next episode. We’ll likely learn more about what the Eagans are up to at Lumon as the season goes on.


--- [Everything We Know About Kier Eagan, And An Analysis Of His ...] ---
Everything We Know About Kier Eagan, And An Analysis Of His Character Kier Eagan is widely known as the founder of Lumon Industries; the namesake of the town of Kier, PE; and something of a local hero. Within Lumon, he's known as a messianic figure who the company serves. But who is he, really? There are very few facts we actually know about him, as we get everything from Lumon's perspective. It's possible he never existed at all, or that he would hate modern Lumon's interpretation of his teachings. But today I'm going to put together everything we know about Kier into one cohesive biography, and we'll see if we learn anything new. CHAPTER ONE: Childhood Kier was born in 1841 and grew up in a small village at the end of what is now known as the Dieter Eagan National Forest. Said national forest is named for his twin brother, Dieter, who he allegedly grew up with. Our only sources on this chapter of Kier's life are from he himself, and it's possible anything up to the existence of Dieter could be fabricated. I'm just going to recount what he says, but note any of this could be misinformation. Kier and Dieter's father was the owner of an ether mill, an industry Kier would later enter. They did not formally work in the mill, as Kier describes his first job as being at a furniture emporium, but they spent enough time in the mill for Kier to promise to look after Dieter there. Their parents supposedly had a "close biological relationship", which left Kier with skin prone to bruising. He also suffered from tuberculosis, then called consumption, when he was young. When he was a boy, Kier and Dieter ran off into the forest to live as paupers. What occurred next is so fantastical it is hard to imagine it literally occurring, but I will simply summarize his words: Dieter had a habit of, ah, spilling his lineage in the forest, which eventually led to him turning into a tree. Kier fled this scene to the pond of Woe's Hallow, where he encountered Woe, one of the Four Tempers. The Tempers formed a key part of Kier's teachings, being aspects of the human soul that reside within people and must be tamed. It is hard to say how literally Kier intends his description of his encounter with Woe to be taken. Nowhere else does he describe the Tempers as external forces, just elements within people. But here he gives a vivid description of Woe, a "gaunt bride, half the height of a natural woman", who informs Kier that his brother's fate is Kier's fault for "suffering his wantonness". Returning home, presumably to some questioning about his brother's fate, Kier took a job at the age of twelve (so in 1853) at the furniture emporium of Edgare Willit, a disciplinarian employer who beat his workers with a chair leg. The emporium was located in a city seven miles from Kier's home, and he walked to and from it every day for a summer. At his job Kier met another boy named Dell Hatch, who had an amputated hand. To hide this from Willit, who hated amputees and would send any workers without the correct number of limbs to a children's prison, Kier made a fake hand for Dell out of sticks and chicken skin. Eventually Willit saw through the ruse and sent Dell to prison, and Kier never saw his friend again. Although likely explained in detail in the full Compliance handbook, we only know of those two incidents in Kier's childhood. What is known is that in 1861, when Kier was twenty years old, the American Civil War began. CHAPTER TWO: Pre-Lumon Life Kier served on the Union side of the civil war, as one can probably tell from how snowy his childhood surroundings were and are. He is pictured in military regalia many times in not just Lumon but the town of Kier itself, including in the Damona Birthing Retreat and as a statue in the park. It is likely he served as a medic, considering how he is quoted as saying "I dug inside of soldiers and within them, found the war," as well as his later interest in medicine. At some point in the war Kier was betrayed by four traitors, who were buried up to their necks as punishment. However, Kier refrained from executing them and instead kindly allowed them back into service. If there was ever a part of the story I consider the most likely to be made up by Lumon, it's that. This alleged event is shown in a painting placed in the lobby of the severed floor after the Macrodat Uprising. CHAPTER THREE: Lumon Lumon was not, originally, the name of a company. Upon his return from the war in 1865, Kier went to the town of Salt's Neck and sold "Kier Eagan's Lumon Ether" with the tagline "there is a miracle cure for mankind". Lumon was the name of the product, not the corporation. Kier was simply selling a new form of his father's product: ether. So while "Lumon" came into existence in 1865, thus the Perpetuity Wing saying that is when Kier became CEO, the corporation we know today was only founded a year later. Note an important line from Irving B, a severed worker: "I work for a company that has been actively caring for mankind since 1866." Not 1865, 1866. The company was named after the medicine, not the other way around. With the formation of the company in 1866 came its manufacturing of other products, such as topical salves. In modern times, with ether known to be an addictive drug and not a miracle cure for mankind, that origin is what the company prefers to emphasize. Note also the phrasing of Kier's first advertisements: "there is a miracle cure for mankind". Translated to Latin, "a cure for mankind" is Remedium Hominibus, the PE state motto. That's not actually important for this study, but I hadn't seen anyone observe yet that the state motto is just an old Lumon ad slogan. At any rate, Kier was clearly focused on curing the human condition. While a medic in the Union army, he "dug inside of soldiers and within them found the war". He wanted a way to curb the worst excesses of mankind: the frolic of Dieter Eagan, the malice of Edgare Willit, the woe of Dell Hatch, and presumably someone he knew was dreading something a lot too but that isn't mentioned in any of the excerpts we have. These tempers, which he first encountered that fateful day in Woe's Hollow, needed to be tamed. Kier returned to the forest where Dieter died and entered Scissor Cave, likely named because it is where he cut the Tempers out of him. He is quoted as saying "we must be cut to heal". Here he encountered the Tempers again, and -in what later members of his cult would consider equal to the enlightenment of Buddha- managed to tame them. Lumon artwork, of both the painted and, ah, interactive varieties, show him taming them through his nine core principles: vision, verve, wit, cheer, humility, benevolence, nimbleness, probity, and wiles. Unlike previous encounters with the Tempers, there is more evidence that Kier successfully did something here. Lumon later was able to scientifically access and modify the Tempers within test subjects, so it seems they really do empirically exist, or something equivalent that Lumon identified with the Tempers. Whatever the case, he left the cave a new man. CHAPTER FOUR: Cult Leader Kier took to practicing the ancient Swedish tradition of the Gråkappan, where he disguised himself as a common worker and went into his ether mills to hear the true thoughts of his workers. On one such visit he met his future wife, Imogene. The date is unknown but can be presumed to be sometime before the birth of their firstborn son Ambrose in 1865. I understand this is slightly out of order but it fits better here than in the previous section. In 1870, three things occurred. First, Edgare Willit died in a fire at Willit Emporium, perhaps the first example of Lumon forcibly silencing its enemies. Second, planks from that fire were taken to Salt's Neck to construct the Drippy Pot Cafe, part of Lumon's efforts to invigorate the town with the construction of a new ether factory there. Finally, construction began on Branch 501, what is now Lumon's corporate headquarters in Kier, PE. We actually have few records of Kier's actual actions as CEO of Lumon. What is known is that the highest echelons of the company are presently members of a cult worshipping Kier, and it is likely this is the point in the timeline that he founded said cult. The exact beliefs of this religion are not entirely clear, but seem to include: -Veneration of Kier as a "chosen one", although it is never said who chose him. Kier's taming of the Tempers proves him more brilliant than any other man, and his is the example to be followed. -Belief in the core principles as a set of virtues and the tempers as a set of sins. -Belief in an afterlife which Kier presides over. Someone who dies is said to "sit with Kier". -Belief that said afterlife cannot be reached unless guided by the soul of a goat, which must be sacrificed before the death of anyone Lumon wants to reward in the hereafter. -A belief that every word of the Compliance handbook and its appendices are the gospel truth, including the surreal story of Dieter. Finally, in 1939, Kier died. He was 98, an impressive age to reach today, much less eighty years ago. Taming his tempers must have been good for his health. He lived to see the birth of all his descendants through Philip "Pip" Eagan, father of current CEO Jame Eagan. On his deathbed he recorded a set of audio recordings that were complied into the Fourth Appendix. ---------------------------------------------------- So what have we learned about Kier from that lengthy biography? Early in his life, he was quite like Mark and our other protagonists: he looked out for fellow workers and hid things from his abusive bosses. I do not believe Dieter was turned into a tree. I'm not even entirely sure Dieter existed. I do believe that Kier thought he had a brother, though, and when he lost him in the forest it filled Kier with a pain he'd never before known: Woe. Then he was abused by his boss and came to hate him: Malice. He fought in a war where any day he could be killed: Dread. And he fell in love with Imogene: Frolic. Do you see the pattern? A man loses a loved one, goes to work for abusive people, begins to live in fear for his life, and finds love again. That's the story of Mark, assuming you smooth over what happens to the innie and outie. It's a very human story. But Kier didn't like these feelings, so he tried to conquer them. He tried to become what Lumon eventually made in Cold Harbor Gemma: a robotic being who feels nothing and simply follows instructions. I believe the story of Kier is meant to be the counter to Severance's ultimate theme: that we should not cut away even the parts of our lives we don't like, our traumas and tempers, because that is what makes us human.
