=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gloria Niemeyer Francke - Wikipedia]
The society's Gloria Niemeyer Francke Leadership Mentor Award is named for her. [2] Francke became the first executive secretary of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists [ASHP] in 1949 and was Associate Editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy from 1944 to 1964. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gloria_Niemeyer_Francke

[Gloria Francke Scholarship - aphafoundation.org]
Dr. Francke’s journalistic achievements include service as assistant editor of the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association 1946-1947; associate editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy 1944-1964; co-author of Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy (1964); and Perspectives in Clinical Pharmacy (1972) She also owned and operated Drug Intelligence Publications. The Gloria Francke ...
URL: https://www.aphafoundation.org/about-scholarships/gloria-francke-scholarship

[Gloria Niemeyer Francke (April 28, 1922 — August 3, 2008 ...]
Associate editor American Journal Hospital Pharmacy, Washington, 1944-1964. Assistant director division hospital pharmacy American Pharmaceutical Association, 1946-1956.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/gloria_niemeyer.francke/647020

[Gloria Niemeyer Francke - Wikiwand]
The society's Gloria Niemeyer Francke Leadership Mentor Award is named for her. [2] Francke became the first executive secretary of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists [ASHP] in 1949 and was Associate Editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy from 1944 to 1964. [3] Francke's journalistic achievements include:
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Gloria_Niemeyer_Francke

[Tribute to Dr. Joseph A. Oddis - Oxford Academic - Oxford University Press]
A coup of sorts was achieved in early 1963 with the decision of Don and Gloria Francke to leave Ann Arbor, Michigan, and accept offers to join ASHP's Washington ...
URL: https://academic.oup.com/ajhp/article/78/16/1449/6353802


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gloria Niemeyer Francke - Wikipedia] ---
Gloria Niemeyer Francke (April 28, 1922 – August 3, 2008) was an American pharmacist. She became assistant director of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA) Division of Hospital Pharmacy (1946–1956); executive secretary of the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists (1949–1960); and research associate for the Audit of Pharmaceutical Service in Hospitals (1956–1964).
A native of Dillsboro, Indiana, Gloria Niemeyer earned her B.S. degree in Pharmacy from Purdue University in 1942 and her Pharm.D in 1971 from the University of Cincinnati.
She then served as a drug literature specialist at the National Library of Medicine (1965–1967); as a clinical pharmacy teaching coordinator for the Veterans Administration Hospital in Cincinnati (1967–1971); as secretary of the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy (1968–1978); and as Chief of the program evaluation branch in the Alcohol and Drug Dependence Service, Veterans Administration (1971–1975).
She rejoined the APhA staff (1975–1985) and was elected Honorary President in 1986 and received the Remington Honor Medal in 1987.
She served as a member of the APhA Foundation Advisory Committee. The society's Gloria Niemeyer Francke Leadership Mentor Award is named for her.
Francke became the first executive secretary of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists [ASHP] in 1949 and was Associate Editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy from 1944 to 1964.
In 1995, Francke was awarded the Donald Francke Medal by the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists for "significant international contributions to advance pharmacy practice."


--- [Gloria Francke Scholarship - aphafoundation.org] ---
Gloria Francke Scholarship Gloria Niemeyer Francke, was born in Dillsboro, Indiana and she earned a B.S. degree in Pharmacy from Purdue University in 1942 and a Pharm.D. degree in 1971 from the University of Cincinnati. Following service as a community pharmacist in Dillsboro and as assistant to the chief pharmacist at the University of Michigan Hospital she became assistant director of the APhA Division of Hospital Pharmacy 1946-1956, executive secretary of the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists 1949-1960, and research associate for the Audit of Pharmaceutical Service in Hospitals 1956-1964. She then served as a drug literature specialist at the National Library of Medicine 1965-1967; as clinical pharmacy teaching coordinator for the VA Hospital in Cincinnati 1967-1971; secretary of American Institute of the History of Pharmacy 1968-1978; and chief of the program evaluation branch, Alcohol and Drug Dependence Service, Veterans Administration 1971-1975. She rejoined the APhA staff from 1975-1985 and was elected Honorary President in 1986 and received the Remington Honor Medal in 1987. She served as a member of the APhA Foundation Advisory Committee. Dr. Francke’s journalistic achievements include service as assistant editor of the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association 1946-1947; associate editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy 1944-1964; co-author of Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy (1964); and Perspectives in Clinical Pharmacy (1972) She also owned and operated Drug Intelligence Publications. The Gloria Francke Scholarship is presented annually to one (1) recipient with a scholarship of $1,000.


--- [Gloria Niemeyer Francke (April 28, 1922 — August 3, 2008 ...] ---
Background Francke, Gloria Niemeyer was born on April 28, 1922 in Dillsboro, Indiana, United States. Daughter of Albert B. and Fannie K. (Libbert) Niemeyer. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Francke, Gloria Niemeyer was born on April 28, 1922 in Dillsboro, Indiana, United States. Daughter of Albert B. and Fannie K. (Libbert) Niemeyer. Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy, Purdue University, 1942. Doctor of Pharmacy (honorary), from 1988. Doctor of Pharmacy, University Cincinnati, 1971. Postgraduate, University Michigan, 1945. Pharmacist Dillsboro Drug Store, 1943-1944. Instructor School Pharmacy Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana, 1943. Assistant to chief pharmacist University Michigan Hospital, Ann Arbor, 1944-1946. Associate editor American Journal Hospital Pharmacy, Washington, 1944-1964. Assistant director division hospital pharmacy American Pharmaceutical Association, 1946-1956. Executive secretary American Society Hospital Pharmacists, Ann Arbor, 1949-1960, acting director department communications Washington, 1963-1964. Drug literature specialist The National Library Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland, 1965-1967. Clinical pharmacy teaching coordinator Veterans Administration Hospital, Cincinnati, 1967-1971. Assistant clinical professor clinical pharmacy College Pharmacy University Cincinnati, 1967-1971. Chief program evaluation branch Alcohol & Drug Dependence Service VA Central Office, Washington, 1971-1975. Director Pharmacy Intelligence Center American Pharmaceutical Association, 1975-1985. Retired, 1988 Member Roche Hospital Pharmacy Advisory Board, 1971-1974. Judge for annual Lunsford Richardson Pharmacy awards, 1963, 64. Member committee standards for drug abuse treatment and rehabilitation programs Joint Commission Accreditation of Hospitals, 1974-1975. Member Roche Hospital Pharmacy Advisory Board, 1971-1974. Member committee standards for drug abuse treatment and rehabilitation programs Joint Commission Accreditation of Hospitals, 1974-1975. Member International Pharmaceutical Federation, American Institute History of Pharmacy (executive secretary 1968-1978), Texas Society Hospital Pharmacists (honorary), American Pharmaceutical Association (honorary chairman 1986, named the Gloria Niemeyer Francke Leadership Mentor award in her honor 1995), American Society Hospital Pharmacists (Donald East. Francke medal 1995), Drug Information Association, Kappa Epsilon, Rho Chirurgical Married Donald Eugene Francke, April 15, 1956.


--- [Gloria Niemeyer Francke - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Tribute to Dr. Joseph A. Oddis - Oxford Academic - Oxford University Press] ---
- Split View - Views - Cite Cite Tribute to Dr. Joseph A. Oddis, American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy, Volume 78, Issue 16, 15 August 2021, Pages 1449–1536, https://doi.org/10.1093/ajhp/zxab264 Close - Share Foreword This issue of AJHP is dedicated to an exceptional individual and an inspirational leader, Dr. Joseph A. Oddis. Never in this journal’s history has an entire issue been focused on one person. However, it is most appropriate, at this particular point in time, to devote the pages of this August 15, 2021 issue to Dr. Oddis. He was a visionary who led the transformation of hospital and health-system pharmacy practice, as well as ASHP itself, in the second half of the 20th century. With his passing, his family lost a father, grandfather, and uncle. The profession of pharmacy lost a true legend in the field upon his death on February 24, 2021. On these pages you will have the opportunity to read the reflections of those who knew him best—his family, past ASHP presidents, long-time colleagues, and ASHP staff and executive residents from the Oddis era. It is a reflection of his sincere affection for the larger ASHP family, and their affection for Dr. Oddis, that a spouse and children of former ASHP staff also shared their very personal memories of time with him. Editorials by Dr. Oddis’s two successors as the ASHP chief executive officer—Henri R. Manasse, Jr. and Paul W. Abramowitz—provide unique insights into his leadership style and mentoring skills. AJHP Guest Editor and former ASHP Deputy Executive Vice President William A. Zellmer reflects on his first glimpse of Joseph Oddis at a 1968 national meeting and his observations of him as a leader and colleague over 27 years. Through the authors’ lenses readers will gain insights into the entirety of the man—his vision, leadership style, gentle nature even at moments that required a meaning-filled stare over the top of the glasses, and, most of all, that classic Oddis humility. His family shares their unique views of him as a devoted father, grandfather, and uncle who balanced the demands of a highly successful career with his commitment to always be there for those he loved. The chronology of ASHP’s accomplishments during Dr. Oddis’s tenure as the organization’s chief executive provides a rich history of the initiatives, a large number of which continue today, that commenced between 1960 and 1997. Along with providing insights into the enduring impact of the Oddis legacy, the chronology provides an opportunity for readers to contemplate what lessons from this transformational period can be applied today. The selected articles in his own words, which cross the decades of his tenure as the ASHP chief executive, offer insights into our profession’s history and Dr. Oddis’s thinking at key points during the evolution of ASHP and hospital and health-system pharmacy practice. Those who knew him can practically hear his voice as you read his first “As the Secretary Sees It”, column, originally published in AJHP in October 1960, where he describes his vision and ambitions for the profession of pharmacy upon embarking on a professional journey he traveled for 38 years. He was prescient in his 1967 missive “Facing Up to Hospital Pharmacy Manpower Needs,”, originally presented at Howard University, in which he articulated the need for a computerized medical record. The 2013 recorded interview with ASHP Past President Sara White provides an opportunity to hear his personal reflections on a more than 60-year career. For many this issue of AJHP will be an opportunity to reflect on the vast contributions of Dr. Joseph A. Oddis. We hope that it will also serve—especially for student pharmacists and pharmacy residents—as an in-depth look at the life and career of a man who was essential to establishing pharmacy as the patient care–oriented and clinically focused profession that we know today. Daniel J. Cobaugh I Kasey K. Thompson Bethesda, Maryland I June 1, 2021 Additional tributes to Dr. Joseph A. Oddis and photos highlighting the many meaningful moments in his life are available at http://www.ashp.org/Joseph-A-Oddis-Tribute Editorials The Strength of Humility and Self-Confidence “It was very kind of them.” Those who had the opportunity to experience the pleasure of his company would recognize the characteristic humility of Joseph A. Oddis’s words when reflecting upon his receipt of fellowship in the International Pharmaceutical Federation in 2018. As described throughout this tribute issue of AJHP, this man, one of the most influential pharmacists of the 20th century, relied upon his many strengths to shape ASHP and pharmacy practice. His humility was greatest among them. He believed that not being possessed by one’s own ambitions was an essential characteristic of a leader. Humility should not be mistaken for a lack of confidence. In fact, Dr. Oddis has been described by his former colleagues as persuasive, persistent, and even relentless at times.1 In a 2013 interview with ASHP Past President Sara White, he spoke of the importance of confidence: “One has to have confidence in oneself. That’s terribly important. If you’re going to look just at the risks, you’re probably just going to hang around for a long time doing not much of anything constructive. But if you have confidence in yourself—a belief that you can make a contribution, want to make a contribution—then there’s no great risk.”2 One of the greatest tests of a leader’s contributions is the endurance of those accomplishments over time. This confidence and ability to take informed risks led to the heights of his successes during his tenure as the ASHP chief executive officer. This humble man transformed the profession of pharmacy and ASHP. To be clear, Dr. Oddis would be the first to give full credit to the boards of directors, member volunteers, and a dedicated staff. However, without his deep listening, insightful questions, and gentle guidance, the breadth and depth of the achievements would have been lesser. Yet this man of vision and insight expressed his humility through a belief that life was a series of coincidences that could be turned into opportunities. One of the greatest tests of a leader’s contributions is the endurance of those accomplishments over time. With Dr. Oddis’s visionary leadership, ASHP built the foundation for hospital and health-system pharmacy practice and the medication-use system of the 21st century. In his eyes one of the greatest achievements during his tenure as the ASHP chief executive—one that underpins clinical pharmacy practice advances today—was the establishment of pharmacy residency training standards and the influence of residency-trained pharmacists across the healthcare system. With his leadership ASHP built upon the early work of Spease, Porter, and Francke to establish standards for pharmacy practice and medication use in hospitals and health systems. Organizations such as The Joint Commission and the National Quality Forum continue today to rely upon ASHP practice standards to ensure safe and effective use of medications. Similarly, current efforts to advance the roles of pharmacy technicians are founded in Dr. Oddis’s vision for the training and credentialing of these essential members of the pharmacy workforce. Through his vision the Society grew with the development of a successful publishing program, birth of the Midyear Clinical Meeting, and establishment of the ASHP Research and Education Foundation to foster research in the field. The Oddis legacy—both at ASHP and during his term as president of the International Pharmaceutical Federation—was based in his vision for a strong professional society that would harness the talents and energies of deeply committed members and staff. Dr. Oddis truly cared about and nurtured people. The magnitude of his effects on the lives he touched is obvious in the recollections of his family, past ASHP presidents, former ASHP staff, and professional colleagues who shared their memories of him in this issue of the journal. It is striking how many people remember exactly when they first met him. His influence on people was most aptly summarized on these pages by his grandsons, who reflected, “What Gramps did in his career and his life was bring people together.”3 This investment in people paid off. During the Oddis era ASHP witnessed impressive membership growth that continues today as a result of the foundation he built and recruitment of a talented staff that shared his passion for the mission of the Society. Dr. Oddis also recognized that ASHP, its state affiliates, and other healthcare organizations would benefit from a pipeline of well-trained association executives, and with that in mind he established the Executive Residency in Association Management in 1968. Graduates of that program have gone on to assume leadership positions in all facets of healthcare and, similar to so much of what he did, the program continues today. He invested in his relationships with each of the ASHP presidents, and as he implored us to “be presidential” in his gentle way he was signaling us to be confident, but humble. I was an especially fortunate recipient of this investment as I benefited from his mentoring not only during my presidential term but also as one of his successors as the ASHP chief executive officer. Joseph A. Oddis’s contributions to ASHP, pharmacy practice, and healthcare were extraordinary. Each of us, regardless of our role in pharmacy or the length of our tenure, owes a debt of gratitude to this great man, who with the strength of his humility and self-confidence transformed pharmacy practice while positioning it for the future. Paul W. Abramowitz, PharmD, ScD (Hon), FASHP ASHP, Bethesda, Maryland Disclosures: Dr. Abramowitz is chief executive officer of ASHP. References An Extraordinary Time It was unprecedented. Joseph A. Oddis had announced his retirement as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President of ASHP after 37 years of a distinguished career, and I had been chosen as his successor. While he had spent most of his career as an association executive, I on the other hand had completed 28 years as an academic pharmacist at two Big Ten universities. Given the size, scope, and uniqueness of ASHP, the Board of Directors decided there would be a 9-month transition of leadership, during which I would have the opportunity to learn the ins and outs of ASHP directly from Dr. Oddis. Executive transitions in organizations often pose challenges. Organizations have their own cultures, ways of doing things, and myriad idiosyncrasies not always evident from casual observation. ASHP was no different. From its founding in 1942, it had had only one full-time executive. ASHP had grown to encompass a membership of tens of thousands of pharmacists. And its executive leadership had been defined by only one person: Dr. Joseph A. Oddis. And so, on September 1, 1996, the transition began. After the first day of introductions, tours, and briefings, Dr. Oddis and I ended the day with what I came to learn was the 5 p.m. cocktail hour. Anyone in the building was welcome to join in, meaning you grabbed a libation, took a chair, and joined in the chat. This was no ordinary chat; it was interwoven with personal anecdotes, history lessons, perspectives, and viewpoints that one would not ordinarily hear in conversations or planned meetings. Dr. Oddis would be called Joe. He would reference his meagerly upbringings in an immigrant household. His strong Catholic faith would come into the conversation. And sometimes there would be stories about storing the American Hospital Formulary Service binders in his home basement and putting his children to work inserting the loose-leaf pages. Dr. Oddis would be called Joe. He would reference his meagerly upbringings in an immigrant household. Being an early-morning person, I invited Dr. Oddis to join me for breakfast the second day of my transition. He quickly replied, “I don’t do breakfast.” Thus, I came to learn that he preferred starting his workday later than I did, and to be sure, he really liked staying late, picking up where he left off before the 5 p.m. session, continuing until 7 or 8 p.m. My days became very long! Over the course of my 9 months of transitioning, I became a devoted student of the many lessons that Dr. Oddis brought forward related to good governance of ASHP and effective operation of its professional and business enterprise. Among the numerous facets of ASHP that required deep understanding to ensure continued success were the staff of nearly 200 persons, 50 affiliated state societies, formal relationships with nearly 50 healthcare organizations, the ASHP Research and Education Foundation, ownership of a 4-story modern commercial building (partly devoted to ASHP headquarters), and an annual budget of more than $30 million. Memories of those 9 months of transition reside strongly in my heart and mind to this day. That transition period contributed immensely to any successes that might be attributed to me as ASHP’s executive leader. Over the course of many conversations, Joe zeroed in on the mission of ASHP. He felt strongly that ASHP had to be clearly centered on meeting the needs of pharmacists practicing in hospitals and health systems. He advised not to be tempted to stray outside of this professional realm because you will never have the resources needed to meet the needs of a broad (and perhaps poorly defined) array of practices in pharmacy. He also focused intensely on the necessity of clarity between the role of the chief executive officer and the Board of Directors. He drew an analogy with air travel, with the pilot having a very different role than the control tower in specifying the flight pattern and guiding the takeoff and the landing of a plane. He emphasized the important role of the Board of Directors in establishing the strategic direction of the organization and applying appropriate oversight, with the CEO having authority in activating the organization in pursuit of the goals set by the Board. I learned from Joe that many organizational failures had occurred because of the lack of clarity on this issue. Joe also emphasized the importance of international engagement, highlighting global trends and innovations in practice and science. He generously shared the perspectives he gained from his decades of service to the International Pharmaceutical Federation. Memories of those 9 months of transition reside strongly in my heart and mind to this day. That transition period contributed immensely to any successes that might be attributed to me as ASHP’s executive leader. In the time and space that Joe and I occupied together, we celebrated the importance of family, faith, colleagues, and friends as essential infrastructure for successful executive leadership of a professional pharmacist membership association. Rest in peace my friend, Dr. Joseph A. Oddis, as your soul shines on us below. Henri R. Manasse, Jr., BSPharm, MA, PhD, ScD (Hon.), FFIP, ASHP CEO Emeritus Professor and Dean Emeritus, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago The Oddis Effect The first time I saw Joseph Oddis was at the May 1968 APhA annual meeting in Miami Beach. I did not know who he was, but he got my attention. He walked up to a microphone at a session of the APhA House of Delegates and announced that Dr. James L. Goddard had been selected for the ASHP Board of Directors Award of Honor. Dr. Goddard, the rabble-rousing revolutionary Commissioner of the FDA—now that got my attention! From my seat in the gallery, I looked more closely at the man making this announcement—poised and dignified in demeanor, boldly commending the bravery of a federal official who was determined to reform the regulation of medicines. I thought no more about what I had witnessed, but the image of the man at the microphone stuck with me. Two years later, I had my first conversation withJoseph Oddis when I interviewed for a staff position with AJHP. I told him I had seen him make his Goddard announcement in Miami Beach. He asked me how he had done. Shyly, I gave him a superficial answer that skirted the power of his first impression on this newly minted pharmacist from the Midwest. When ASHP hired me, it was the fulfillment of a dream engendered in pharmacy school, where I was infected with the bug for organizational and editorial work. Over 27 years, I had an exceptional vantage point for observing what I call the Oddis Effect on the blossoming of an organization and the evolution of a profession. Components of the Oddis Effect included charisma and charm, passion for the profession of pharmacy, belief in the perfectibility of organizations, and patience for the long game in work and life. At the 20th anniversary of ASHP’s founding, Don Francke wrote that Joseph Oddis’s appointment as ASHP’s executive leader marked a new “phase of the hospital pharmacy movement.”1 In making that remark, Francke premised the advancement of hospital pharmacy on the development of an effective association for coalescing and energizing the field. ASHP had reached the limits of what could be achieved through largely volunteer efforts. Consolidation and full-time coordination were needed as well as the time and ability to pursue new opportunities for advancing hospital pharmacy. It did not take Joseph Oddis long to prove his worth in these regards. In the early 1970s, the time had come to reassess the scope of ASHP. A study commission chaired by Paul Parker observed that, at its core, ASHP represented pharmacists who promoted rational drug therapy in “organized healthcare settings.” Hospital inpatient care was no longer the only setting that embraced this focus for pharmacy. Hence, the commission argued, ASHP should redefine its purview consistent with the evolving reality. This was a controversial notion among those who felt that the existing organizational boundaries were sacrosanct. Nevertheless, ASHP moved forward, and in 1975 its House of Delegates declared unanimously that the Society’s primary objective was the advancement of rational use of medicines “in hospitals and similar organized healthcare settings.”2 Joseph Oddis was keenly aware of longstanding issues that were harmful to pharmacy’s imageor barriers to its advancement. Examples included an ill-defined technician workforce, lack of auniform educational requirement for pharmacists, and occasional public squabbling betweenpharmacist organizations. Oddis recognized this manifesto’s numerous implications for ASHP programs and organizational structure. The 1985 Hilton Head Conference,3,4 spearheaded by Max Ray, was aimed at building consensus about the fundamental clinical purpose of pharmacy. The ASHP Bylaws definition of “active member” had to be updated. Membership component groups were created (e.g., Special Interest Groups; later, Sections and Forums) to ensure that practitioners in highly differentiated roles had a voice in ASHP. And, in 1995, ASHP changed the word “Hospital” in its name to “Health-System.” Among the 6 goals ASHP adopted in 19645 for “the focus of its attention...during the next several decades,” one was particularly well suited for the Oddis Effect: Utilize the resources of hospital pharmacy to assist in the development and improvement of the profession as a whole. Joseph Oddis was keenly aware of longstanding issues that were harmful to pharmacy’s image or barriers to its advancement. Examples included an ill-defined technician workforce, lack of a uniform educational requirement for pharmacists, and occasional public squabbling between pharmacist organizations. Joseph Oddis played a key role in resolving these issues. He helped bring stakeholders together in establishing the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board. He was instrumental in gaining the support of the largest pharmacist associations for the Doctor of Pharmacy degree as the sole entry-level degree for the profession. He was the harmonizing force behind the creation of the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners, which has brought pharmacy association leaders together for quarterly discussions for the past 44 years. These brief comments only hint at the profound influence Joseph Oddis had on our field. For a more complete picture, we will have to wait for what historians say about the contributions of the Oddis Effect on the remarkable transformation of pharmacy in the last half of the 20th century. William A. Zellmer, BSPharm, MPH, Pharmacy Foresight Consulting, Bethesda, Maryland References REMEMBRANCES: The Oddis Family Joseph M. Oddis Dad was a good and wonderful person. He was always guided by a strong faith in God and a positive view of the future. As a father, husband, grandfather, and leader, he always approached everything he did with dedication, passion, and consistency. When Marie and I were young children, Dad traveled a great deal and was often gone for multiple days during the week, and if he was in town he worked long hours. Somehow, though, he managed to show up in special ways and at special moments, and we felt like he was always around. I will forever have a picture of looking up from the starting block at a swim meet and seeing him at the end of the pool, often with a couple of colleagues (all dressed in suits, I might add). Or as I was about to take the mat in wrestling and suddenly seeing Dad arrive in the stands when I thought he was still out of town. He had a unique ability to achieve a balance of hard work and dedication to the field of pharmacy and still maintain a deep joy and involvement as a family man. I also knew early on that my dad was a consummate professional and believed in leading with integrity and honesty. I had many opportunities to witness him even under the most difficult circumstances stick to his principles, take the long-term view, and never stray from his belief in “doing the right thing.” Dad was my mentor early on and throughout my professional career. When I learned about “servant leadership,” I realized I had been raised by a man who was the living embodiment of it. I was blessed he was a man of patience as I surely put that quality to the test as a young man! But Dad persevered and was the person who waited until after I finished college to ask me, “Have you ever thought of a career in healthcare?” Now that’s patience! I was blessed to grow up around the ASHP family. Dad gave us an opportunity to experience the growth of the Society and, quite frankly, of pharmacy, nationally and internationally. He cared deeply about people and loved to see individuals grow, and he took great pride throughout his life in sharing stories of their successes. In Dad’s later years, many of our discussions were about his staff members and residents and the wonderful things they had done or were doing, as well as the continued growth of ASHP. Dad loved his family, friends, and his profession—none of which he ever lost interest or pride in. To the very end he never complained and continued to help and care about others. I am humbled and blessed to have spent my lifetime with a man of such goodness. I miss him greatly. Joseph M. Oddis, MBA, FACHE, is a retired healthcare executive; he lives in Maryland. Marie Oddis Newman My dad’s professional career has been beautifully documented and is well known. He achieved more than most people can ever hope to do. However, his roles as a dad, grandfather, father-in-law, mentor, and guiding spirit serve as the most important ones to me as his daughter. Dad was patient, loving, compassionate, and always willing to listen. He was a man of strong faith and unwavering values, which guided him every day of his life. He taught me the importance of respecting everyone, not only by words but by constant example. Even when I misbehaved, the worst punishment was the gentle but firm conversations about how I had disappointed him and the ensuing discussions about the lessons I had learned moving forward. He was disciplined and focused and had a fountain of unending perseverance. Although passionate about his career in the pharmacy world, he always had the time to be fully present in my world. As a child, there were Saturday mornings at the office where my brother would work with Walter Jones in the mailroom and I would sit at Esther Knight’s desk to do my schoolwork while my Dad would catch up on his ASHP responsibilities. He would spend Saturday afternoons with my brother and me so that Mom could have some free time. We would go to the Peoples Drug Store in a nearby shopping center for a cherry smash at the soda fountain, get penny candy at the five-and-dime store, share ice cream at the Baskin-Robbins, or attend a carnival at church. I still remember a special date with my dad when he took me to see The Sound of Music at the Baronet Theatre in Bethesda and I fell in love with Christopher Plummer and Julie Andrews. There were trips to the beach, swim meets at Bethesda Country Club (usually with an ASHP Board or staff member in tow), wrestling matches, soccer games, and more. As my high school class president, I had to deliver a speech at graduation. I so wanted Dad to review and edit my remarks, but he had a dinner engagement with the ASHP Board the night before my graduation. I remember his arriving home at midnight and, without hesitation, staying up until 2:00 a.m. to help me put the finishing touches on my speech. My marriage to Rick Newman on November 29, 1986, brought special meaning to my dad. My husband-to-be came from a Jewish tradition but was willing to be married in a Catholic ceremony. Rick’s admiration for Dad’s strong Catholic faith and Dad’s respect for all religious traditions paved the way for a warm relationship between my father and his son-in-law, one that would grow stronger over the years. Mom and Dad shared a beautiful marriage together. Although different in personality, they were soul mates, lovingly devoted to each other and their family. They spent wonderful times traveling the world together with ASHP and yet were quite happy to relax and enjoy their time with friends and family at their second home in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. When Mom was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease, my dad’s devotion to her was extraordinary. He was her best advocate, giving up all professional and social engagements to care for her. The only time he would leave her side was when my brother or I could step in to be with her. When we determined it would be best for Mom to be cared for in a nursing facility, my dad hired private caregivers to be with her, and he was at her bedside every day until she passed away on January 13, 2013, after nearly 60 years of marriage. Dad’s grandchildren brought great joy to his life, and their devotion to him was filled with love and respect. He and my mom, as second careers, shuttled my children to various activities—sporting events, concerts, graduations, and dinners—and coordinated their trips to ASHP conventions. There were the special “treats” and routines that Grandpa had with each of them that were allowed only because of his status as a grandfather. Many life lessons were taught during car rides to music lessons, overnight stays with Grandma and Grandpa, and special meals at favorite restaurants for all of his grandchildren. The sudden loss of his granddaughter, Christina, on October 13, 2013, and the death of my mom left him forever with a heavy heart. Yet he persevered and in some ways grew stronger, buoyed by his enduring faith and serving as a symbol of quiet strength and dignity for all who knew him. In the last decade of Dad’s life, I was privileged to be by his side as he courageously endured colon cancer, chemotherapy, back surgery, and two carotid endarterectomies. We were able to enjoy weekly Sunday dinners and holidays with family, many cups of Starbucks coffee, trips to his second home and to our farm, special occasions at his favorite places for dining and a glass of Chardonnay. His family was by his side as ASHP named its headquarters in his honor, when he was applauded by ASHP as one of their esteemed leaders, and when he received a special award that had been created in his name by the FIP. I was always so thankful to have the opportunity to give back to both my parents after a lifetime of their giving to me. Yet my dad never failed to say to me, “Thank you for all you do for me.” I in turn would give him a hug and tell him that I loved him. My final conversation with Dad was on February 23 about 9:00 in the evening. I had taken him to get his second shot of a COVID-19 vaccine that morning, and afterwards we shared coffee and a sandwich together. I checked in with him in the evening to see how he was feeling. His response was that he was fine, munching on a piece of chocolate cake and watching TV. He passed away sometime during the night, in his own home, in his own bed, and in his flannel pajamas with a handkerchief in his chest pocket. He left this world peacefully, without fanfare, in the same special way he lived his life. When the pain of his departure passes, all the memories will remain, but one thing will never change: that I was blessed and honored to be his daughter. Marie Oddis Newman, MHSA, BSN, CWCN, RN, is Owner of RN Wound Care, LLC, and Co-Owner of Beat4LifeCPR, LLC. Joseph M. Oddis II and Sean A. Oddis As we write our remembrances of our grandfather, we can’t easily sum up the profound and positive effect he had on the world. We can say without hesitation that Joseph A. Oddis, our grandpa, was the best man we’ll ever know. Although we’ve said goodbye, we really mean so long for now, and we know in our hearts that he found true peace. From the moment we can remember, Gramps was larger than life, with the kindest heart. He always sat at the head of our family table but spent as much time at the Fisher-Price table with his grandchildren. He might have stopped by with some chocolate before dinner, or even poured us a sip or two of Italian bubbles. Grandpa always listened and helped guide our young minds through faith and family. Our fondest memories are of times with Grandma and Grandpa at Bryce Mountain in Virginia, where we enjoyed a winter wonderland. Early mornings, he’d be the first one awake, letting his grandchildren know that the day was for play. That is what he valued most, just simply having his family together, healthy and happy. As we grew into adults, our relationship and understanding of who he really was became much clearer. Outside of being the most loving father, husband, and grandfather, he had been changing the world. What Gramps did in his career and his life was bring people together. He strove to uplift those less fortunate and empower others around him to accomplish great things. His greatest victories were seeing a family member reach an achievement, or an acquaintance turn his or her life around. There were many nights he would come home late, and it wasn’t because he had been golfing or partying. He might have stopped by two or three houses to check on a colleague’s newborn, offer support to a struggling family, or pray with someone who needed comfort. Gramps was the definition of selfless, and so many people, his grandsons especially, were rewarded with that gift. We will miss his thoughtfulness, his quiet wisdom, but most of all his unconditional love. Joseph M. Oddis II, MBA, is the Owner of Lowcountry Boat Detailing LLC and a marketing professional in Charleston, South Carolina. Sean A. Oddis, MBA, is the Owner of Spire Roofing and General Contracting in Charleston, South Carolina. Rebecca J. Newman When I think of the words that I would use to describe my grandfather and the tremendous impact that he had on my life, every adjective seems trivial. “Courageous” and “selfless” are two that come to mind, but perhaps none describes him more perfectly than the simple and poignant word “loving.” Loving was what my grandfather did best, and boundlessly and unconditionally so. He had the unique and innate ability to love in small ways, from the Ziploc bag of candy bars that always found its way into his pocket for the trip home from ballet class; to the hours spent at summer swim meets watching his grandchildren flail about in the water; from the little plate of powdered donuts that he would inconspicuously slide across the table, even when we insisted we were not hungry, just in case we “needed a bite”; to the gentle nudge to take our jacket to school on a brisk day because it was “better to have it and not need it than to not have it and need it.” He also loved in mighty ways, oftentimes in ways that many could not imagine. His admirable commitment to faith and putting others before himself was never just a phenomenon for a good day, but a way of life. If you needed a place to rest your head, his house was your home; if you needed a meal, you had a seat at his table. And yes, if you needed some sage and grandfatherly wisdom, perhaps when you really deserved a spanking (or, as he liked to call it, a “pock-a-pock”), his words somehow always provided a blanket of comfort and reassurance that tomorrow would be a better day. Perhaps most importantly, my grandfather made it his mission that no person ever feel undeserving of his love. In fact, it was quite the opposite: Every human being who had the good fortune of crossing paths with my grandfather knew that he or she was loved unconditionally by at least one person in the world. My grandfather may no longer walk among us on earth. However, it is with this selfless and unceasing love that I hope to carry him with me everywhere I go and to honor the immense impact that he had, not only on me but on all who were touched by his seemingly limitless heart through the years. Rebecca J. Newman, Esq., is an attorney at Venable LLP, Washington, D.C. Diane Marks Some of my best memories are of when our family took summer vacations to Muse, Pennsylvania. My dad and Uncle Joe grew up in Muse, a small coal-mining town where many Italian immigrants settled. My grandfather worked in the coal mine. I remember collecting vegetables and fruit in the communal garden and from the fruit trees. We made homemade pasta and wine in the basement while everybody was speaking Italian. The men drank wine and smoked cigars as we ate tons of delicious food. Other times we would visit Uncle Joe and his family in Bethesda. They lived in a very modest home; Uncle Joe said that was all they needed. He was a member of the Bethesda Country Club, which has one of the finest golf courses in the country, but Uncle Joe did not golf. I loved going there as a kid. I would swim while Uncle Joe and my dad sat and talked for hours, catching up. My older sister knew his membership number and would sneak popsicles on his account. Years later when this story came up, Uncle Joe laughed and said he wondered why there were so many popsicles on his bill at times. I wanted to prepare for a career in the medical field. Uncle Joe along with my maternal uncle and grandfather were all pharmacists and seemed to enjoy their careers. So I chose pharmacy. Uncle Joe encouraged me to work hard and do what I loved, to find my own path. He often told the story about when I was planning to attend my first ASHP Midyear Clinical Meeting as a student and I asked him if he had heard of it. During my career and especially while on an ASHP council, I got to spend time with him at various meetings. I have never seen so much respect and admiration for one person. Some people called it the “Oddis charm.” He was the best listener and truly cared about everything being said. He had the most gentle and non-intimidating technique of getting his point across. I admired the loving marriage of Uncle Joe and Aunt Jeanne. I know they are together again along with my dad and cousin Christina. My dad died when I was 23. Uncle Joe always made sure my three sisters and I were doing okay after that. He remembered our birthdays and called to chat often. He would call on my dad’s birthday and the anniversary of his death to pay a tribute to him. My dad died just a couple months before my younger sister’s wedding. Uncle Joe stepped in, without hesitation, to walk her down the aisle. She felt honored that he did that for her. I asked other members of my family how they would describe Uncle Joe. They mentioned selfless, kind, loving, humble, respected, and generous. He often put the big picture in perspective. His time, knowledge, and sacrifices reached far beyond the people he was in contact with directly. His presence and kindness touched everyone around him. He always put others before himself. He worked very hard but always had time for family and friends. He never talked about himself or his accomplishments. He taught me many things, the first being patience. He would tell me that if my idea wasn’t accepted, put it away and save it for the right time. He encouraged me to treat all people equally and with kindness; to take time to dine, not just eat, and have good conversation; and that family is very important. My family and I are very grateful to have had him in our lives. We will continue to honor him by trying to emulate his qualities in our lives. We miss you, Uncle Joe. Diane Marks, BSPharm, BCPS, is Pharmacy Coordinator, Froedtert Home Infusion, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. REPRISE Encapsulating the Career of Joseph A. Oddis This overview of Dr. Oddis’s career, written by former ASHP staff members C. Richard Talley and Mary Jo Reilly, served as the basis for a tribute to him at the ASHP Annual Meeting in 1997 and was published later that year. Joseph A. Oddis: Influences and Achievements C. Richard Talley and Mary Jo Reilly Originally published in Talley CR, Reilly MJ. Joseph A. Oddis: Influences and achievements. Am J Health-Syst Pharm. 1997; 54:1815–25. Joseph A. Oddis has been the chief executive officer of ASHP for 37 years. During that period ASHP has grown into the most influential pharmacist society in the world. ASHP has a membership of 31,000, a staff of 180, an annual budget of nearly $30 million, net assets of $31 million, and a modern headquarters building located in the nation’s center of political power. The Society offers an array of services that is the benchmark by which other organizations are judged, and it is the accrediting body for health-system pharmacy residency training and technician training. All of this evolved under the steady leadership of Joseph A. Oddis. His success during his term at the helm of ASHP, bridging several “generation gaps,” is a testament to Joe’s fundamental understanding of people—and what motivates them—and to his adaptability, within the boundaries of explicit core values. Joe has been able to lead a continual re-examination of ASHP’s values over the years, and to implement whatever new principles are found to be necessary, for he is the personification of both renewal and continuity. Joe Oddis has touched many lives. Most people who interact with him leave with the impression that they are very special. Joe is an engaging conversationalist, articulate and adept in social situations. Although he is not especially gregarious by nature, he enjoys being around people. He is never so extroverted as to draw attention to himself; he is unusually polite by today’s standards. He is persuasive, persistent, even relentless at times. With his fundamental interest in people, it is not surprising that he is considered a mentor by many practitioners and association managers. He has been instrumental in helping many practitioners to ascend to new positions and take on challenges they had little interest in—before a chat with Joe. He is known and respected in the hospital industry and is frequently asked to help find people for key positions in pharmacy. The same can be said of the association world, where he has chaired the American Society of Association Executives foundation board of directors. To fully understand a great person, one must look at influences during the person’s formative years. Joe did not independently engineer the journey that is his life story; rather, that journey was strongly influenced by the values of his mother and father, by a parish priest and a Mercy nun, by the dean of his college of pharmacy, and by a supportive wife and family. Early Life The story of Joseph A. Oddis begins in dark times illuminated by the optimism, hope, and faith of his forebears. The setting is Pietransieri, Italy, in the 1920s. Italy, like much of Europe, is struggling under the terrible economic and political conditions left by World War I. Giacinto Oddis, like so many, dreams of a better life and looks toward America as the answer. Felicetta D’Amico, a young woman from the same village, shares his aspirations and courage to start anew. Together they plan to emigrate to America, marry, improve their lot, and return to Italy after time has healed their motherland’s war wounds. Luckily for American pharmacy and indeed world pharmacy, Giacinto and Felicetta not only made it to the United States, but remained here. The couple married and settled in Muse, Pennsylvania, a town near Pittsburgh. Giacinto, who had little formal education, found work in the local coal mines. The couple lived in a neighborhood of other Italian immigrants, and Italian, not English, was the language spoken at home and among neighbors. Four children were born to Giacinto and Felicetta. The first, Nialandino, died in a sledding accident at the age of five. The second, Josephine, died at birth. Saddened but undaunted, the couple was blessed with two more sons: Giuseppe Amilcare, born in 1928, and Nialandino, born four years later. The names Giuseppe and Nialandino were Anglicized to Joseph and Neal, and young Joseph chose the saint’s name Anthony at his confirmation into the Catholic Church, becoming forevermore Joseph Anthony Oddis. Joseph and Neal were raised among the traditions and priorities of the typical Italian family: community life centering on the church and helping others, homemade pasta, and love of music. Joe recalled other memories from this era in a 1973 publication2: I can see my father leaving home at 5 a.m. each morning to report to the coal mine shaft to be lowered to the depth of the mine where he would spend eight hours shut off from the light of day. And following our dinner meal, he would collapse on the couch, spent and weary from digging coal far below the earth’s surface. It was this example and many other hardships my parents endured as immigrants which must have prompted my brother, who is a physician, and me to dedicate ourselves to hard work, to a deep desire for a good education, to an appreciation of the value of living, to respect for authority and fellow man, and to a belief that life on earth is fleeting and an interlude between now and a hereafter. We were never wanting for encouragement to excel in whatever we did. Times were indeed hard. America’s Great Depression had settled in for its long stay. Joseph and other school-age children would help make ends meet by culling coal remnants from the mountains of residue from the local mining operation. A ton of coal scrabbled in this manner—and not needed at home—could be sold to neighbors for $2. Education as a Pharmacist Joseph did well in school; his chief interest was music. As a senior in high school he was elected class president and shared highest academic achievement with two other students. When it came time to consider college, he intended to continue his study of music. Toward that end, Father James Biller, the assistant pastor of the church the Oddis family attended, took Joseph to meet the dean of the school of music at his alma mater, Duquesne University, in nearby Pittsburgh. Joe recalls that a life-altering event occurred during that same visit1: It was Father Biller who also introduced me to Dr. Hugh C. Muldoon, dean of the school of pharmacy, whom he admired while he was an undergraduate at the University. In a short interview which couldn’t have lasted more than 30 minutes, I was so impressed by Dean Muldoon, his personality, his eloquence, his goodness, that I was determined I wanted to study under him. I am certain it was not the attraction of pharmacy as much as the magnetism of the man that caused me to apply for admission to the school of pharmacy.…His lessons and personal example in humanism made lasting impressions. He was a perfect gentleman with impeccable manners and a sensitivity for social graces. In this description of Dean Muldoon, we can see, of course, some key characteristics of Joe himself. The graceful Joe. The dapper Joe. The integrity and goodness of the man. Funds for tuition were scraped together, but there wasn’t enough for Joseph to be a campus resident, so for a few months he commuted between Muse and the Duquesne campus by train and streetcar. A courtesy call Joe made to Sister Gonzales, his Sunday School teacher from his childhood in Muse, changed that. The Sisters of Mercy had chosen Sister Gonzales, who had already attained a master’s degree in chemistry, to attend pharmacy school in order to become the director of pharmacy at Mercy Hospital. She was a junior in the college of pharmacy—and simultaneously managing the pharmacy at Mercy Hospital—when Joe was a freshman. Through their reacquaintance, Joe was offered a part-time job in the pharmacy in exchange for room and board at the health student dormitory within Mercy Hospital, situated a few blocks from the Duquesne campus. This was to be his residence throughout his college career. He would later realize that this period of living, working, and learning with other health professionals was the crucible in which his appreciation of their interdependency was formed. Service in the U.S. Army Joe graduated from Duquesne in 1950 and worked full-time as a staff pharmacist at Mercy Hospital until he was drafted into the United States Army in 1951. In the Army, he chose a two-year tour of duty instead of officer training, which would have increased his military obligation to three years. After basic training, he was attached to the 38th General Hospital. He spent a year at Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Denver, Colorado, training to provide support of U.S. troops in Korea. Fate here dealt a life-changing card: Instead of being sent to Korea, his hospital unit was sent to Europe, and he was assigned to the Army hospital in Landstuhl, Germany. This deployment decision turned out to be propitious, for the Army had also sent Jeanne Trevena to that spot on the globe. Jeanne had graduated from St. Joseph College in West Hartford, Connecticut, with a degree in biochemistry, and then volunteered for a three-year stint in the Army. Before being sent to Germany, she had been teaching medical technologists at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, Texas. Joe and Jeanne attended the same church, and over time their interest in each other grew. When Joe’s enlistment ended, Jeanne still had a seven-month obligation to the Army, so they parted when Joe returned stateside, with an agreement to “see if the spark was still there” when Jeanne returned home. Apparently it was, because on July 10, 1954, Joe and Jeanne were married. Joe was again working at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh, this time as the assistant director of pharmacy. He owned his first car, a new 1953 Ford, and the couple bought their first home with a mortgage of about $10,000. Experience at AHA Joe’s hospital pharmacy career took its next turn in 1954, when he accepted a position as chief pharmacist at Western Pennsylvania Hospital in Pittsburgh. Like other pharmacists of the era, he found that attempts to expand the scope of services in the hospital were often met with resistance and misunderstanding from the medical and nursing staffs. The opportunity to share his frustrations and successes with other hospital pharmacists contributed to his becoming active in the western Pennsylvania affiliate of the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists. As president of that chapter, Joe began developing a sense of pharmacy organizational politics and a recognition that, together, practitioners could do things they could not do alone. His success in this venue caught the attention of George Archambault, who held the chief pharmacy position in the Public Health Service. George recommended Joe for a new job at the American Hospital Association (AHA), staff representative in hospital pharmacy. The creation of this full-time position had long been encouraged by ASHP representatives sitting on a joint AHA-ASHP committee. Joe accepted the offer, and he and Jeanne moved to Chicago in 1956. Among his chief responsibilities in this new job was the management of the annual institutes on hospital pharmacy. He became involved in decisions about educational content, speakers, and logistics, working with Paul Parker at the American Pharmaceutical Association (APhA) and Gloria Niemeyer, then Secretary of ASHP. He was also one of only a few AHA staff members assigned as aides to the elected presidents of the association. Joe looks back on those years at AHA as his internship and residency in association management. The years in Chicago also spanned milestones in the Oddis family. In 1956, a few months before the move to Chicago, a son, Joseph Michael, was born. In 1958, Joe and Jeanne were again blessed, this time with the arrival of a daughter, Marie Theresa. Move to ASHP In 1960, Joe Oddis was recruited by ASHP and APhA to hold the dual position of Executive Secretary of ASHP and Director of the Division of Hospital Pharmacy at APhA. These positions had been held, respectively, by Gloria Niemeyer Francke and Paul Parker. Over the next couple of years, the hospital pharmacy division at APhA was dissolved, and Joe became the full-time chief executive officer of ASHP. With the help of local realtors, Joe and Jeanne found a home in Bethesda, Maryland, priced at $25,000. They live there still. Joe was sworn in as ASHP Executive Secretary in 1960. At the end of that year, the balance in the Society’s checking account was $537.49; the balance in the savings account (i.e., reserves) was $3241.01, and there were 3294 members. Shortly after being installed, Joe wrote his first column in AJHP (October 1960), where he noted, “There exists within each member of the Society a compelling, enthusiastic spirit of cooperation and self-sacrificing attitude that penetrates all obstacles or barriers to success.” To this day, he believes that. He has led the Society to today’s heights by calling on that spirit of cooperation and self-sacrifice. Joe’s move from AHA to ASHP coincided with some stunning changes in the financial picture of ASHP. From 1959 to 1962, the annual budget for ASHP grew from $36,000 to over $250,000. This change in cash flow was primarily a result of the growth of ASHP’s publishing efforts. In 1956, the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, under Don Francke’s editorship, began accepting paid advertising. For several years, this helped pay printing and mailing expenses, and eventually it generated modest income in excess of expense. But it was the first printing of the American Hospital Formulary Service (AHFS), in 1959, that really changed ASHP’s financial status. William Heller, working with George Provost at the University of Arkansas, had made AHFS—conceived and developed by Don Francke at the University of Michigan—into an instant publishing success. Hamilton Press, in Hamilton, Illinois, provided the capital to print and distribute the first edition and the supplements. Building a Staff and Expanding Publications In ASHP’s early years, as now, the Society’s officers and board members were volunteers. But once the Society had hired Joe Oddis, it recognized the need to expand its paid professional staff to handle administrative matters. In this vein, Joe quickly realized that it would be prudent to centralize control of the diverse AHFS endeavors. The ASHP Executive Committee decided in June 1961, at Joe’s urging, to centralize all operations of AHFS—a decision that proved to be of key importance to the Society’s development. To that end, and with the approval of the ASHP Board of Directors, Joe invited George Provost to move to Washington, D.C. (George lost seven weeks of accumulated vacation at the University of Arkansas by making the move—and he never let Joe forget it.) The ASHP staff complement grew to six people when the administrative aspects of AHFS were transferred from Hamilton Press. Providing adequate training of pharmacists for hospital practice was a principal goal of the Society from its beginning, and staff was added in this area when John Oliver became Director of Education and Training. The residency accreditation program was established in 1963 under Oliver’s guidance. 1960s: Establishment of a solid foundation in distributive services through unit dose drug distribution and i.v. admixture services; expansion to 24-hour service; major medication error studies; Medicare; many new ASHP publications; expansion of the institutes; beginnings of clinical pharmacy; introduction of the residency accreditation program (1963); establishment of the ASHP Research and Education Foundation (1969); publication of Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy; first Midyear Clinical Meeting; ASHP’s move from the APhA building; beginning of the ASHP executive residency (1968) 1970s: Clinical pharmacy; strong moves by pharmacy to have more control over drugs in hospitals; many new ASHP practice standards; new ASHP publications, notably the Handbook on Injectable Drugs; expansion of the ASHP residency accreditation program and establishment of the Commission on Credentialing; first resident-matching program (1978); discontinuation of the requirement that ASHP members hold APhA membership; ASHP purchase of building in Bethesda (1970); formation of ASHP Special Interest Groups; establishment of the Midyear Clinical Meeting as the premier meeting in all of pharmacy; formation of the Board of Pharmaceutical Specialties, with ASHP support 1980s: Recognition and approval of specialized residencies; growth of ASHP Foundation activities; battle over Pharm.D. as sole entry-level degree for practice; establishment of free-standing ASHP Annual Meeting (1981); publication of Clinical Pharmacy and the Consumer Drug Digest; Hilton Head Conference on Directions for Clinical Practice in Pharmacy; ASHP sponsorship of petition for recognition of nutrition support pharmacy as a specialty 1990s: Managed care; integrated systems; ASHP name change; reconfiguration of ASHP to reflect needs of members through component groups; increase in student participation and membership A coup of sorts was achieved in early 1963 with the decision of Don and Gloria Francke to leave Ann Arbor, Michigan, and accept offers to join ASHP’s Washington headquarters staff. Don Francke had edited and published AJHP from Ann Arbor, so his move to headquarters completed the consolidation of all ASHP services. The Franckes’ move brought inhouse their institutional memory; they had been movers and shakers in ASHP since its creation. The Franckes also brought international prestige to the ASHP staff, because they were known and respected in pharmacy circles worldwide through their publishing activities and travels. International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (IPA) was launched in January 1964. Its origin dated back to Gloria Niemeyer’s hobby of keeping a list of articles published on hospital pharmacy. By 1951 this list had been published as the Comprehensive Bibliography. In his capacity as an officer in the press and documentation section of the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP), Don Francke had tried to have IPA published through FIP. When funding for the project was not approved, Don worked with Joe to persuade the ASHP Board of Directors to launch this product as a bimonthly publication. Publishing IPA expanded the Society’s visibility and enhanced its reputation internationally. Further, it underscored Joe’s wisdom in attracting the Franckes to the ASHP staff; had they not been ASHP staff members, IPA might not have been an ASHP publication. In 1964 ASHP also published Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy, a national survey of pharmaceutical services in hospitals. This was the culmination of work begun with a $36,000 annually renewable grant funded under the Medical Facilities Survey and Construction Act of 1954. The project “defined the essential components of adequate pharmaceutical service, identified reasonable costs for such services, established standards for hospitals of all sizes and types, and identified areas of hospitals other than the pharmacy that could benefit from the services of hospital pharmacists.” Don Francke, while still at the University of Michigan, was project director of the grant. Clifton Latiolais was assistant project director, and Gloria Francke and Norman F. H. Ho served as research associates. The effects of the survey were far reaching. It was the impetus for ASHP to expand its educational offerings, the precursor of the ongoing ASHP national survey of hospital pharmaceutical services, and a subject of discussion by the ASHP Commission on Goals during decades in which ASHP became a force in altering the course of pharmacy. Joe Oddis’s early efforts to build a staff exemplified his vision and skills in creating a strong ASHP. From the outset he demonstrated a great sense of “tomorrow.” He began a long, successful pattern of creating an environment in which talented people could do their best work—giving staff members true responsibility and then staying out of their way. A story often repeated about Joe’s recruiting technique involved his telephoning people late at night to offer them jobs. He typically worked at his desk well into the evening, and by 11 p.m. would have collected his thoughts, mapped his strategy, and been ready to offer someone a position on the embryonic ASHP staff. This unique style proved to be a successful one. Educational Services of ASHP The “interchange of information” was a constitutional objective of ASHP from the start, and the ASHP Bulletin, which became AJHP, partially fulfilled that goal. Concurrently, there was a need for educational meetings. The first of ASHP’s institutes was held in Ann Arbor, July 15 to 19, 1946. Over the years ASHP worked with AHA and APhA in the creation and management of these meetings, and Joe Oddis had direct involvement with the process while serving on AHA’s staff. With Joe on board with ASHP in 1960, and with a grant from Wyeth Laboratories, specialized, advanced institutes were launched to precede the annual sessions. By the late 1970s, ASHP was conducting 17 institutes, workshops, conferences, and short courses each year. ASHP’s educational offerings took a giant step toward financial as well as professional success through Joe’s vision and direction. While Joe was at AHA, and in his early years with ASHP, many hospital workers viewed the pharmaceutical and other health-related industries as adversaries. Despite Joe’s suggestions that the industry be brought into these meetings as participants and exhibitors, others resisted because they viewed such a presence as inconsistent with the Society’s mission. Joe ultimately prevailed by creating a conference specifically for industry sales managers and product managers. At a December 1964 meeting held at the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia, 38 companies were represented by 50 industry invitees. The success of that meeting resulted in industry being invited to attend a unit dose drug distribution conference the following year—the precursor of ASHP’s annual Midyear Clinical Meeting. It is noteworthy that Joe was successful in avoiding any real or perceived conflict of interest through a simple rule: The industry was permitted to buy exhibit space but was precluded from sponsoring speakers or educational sessions in ASHP’s part of the conference. ASHP Practice Standards As a pharmacy practitioner and later as a hospital association employee and an association executive, Joe Oddis felt strongly about the merits of developing practice standards. Like other notables in the history of hospital pharmacy, he could see that minimum standards of practice could advance the profession to new heights. Minimum standards had been developed in 1935 by Edward Spease and Robert Porter and adopted by the Catholic Hospital Association. At that time, most hospitals could not meet the standards. In 1947, Don Francke coordinated an ASHP member-generated minimum standard. In 1956, the year Joe joined the staff of AHA, ASHP President-elect Paul Parker appointed Clifton Latiolais to chair the Committee on Minimum Standards. In 1958, ASHP published the Minimum Standard for Pharmacies in Hospitals with Guide to Application, and over the ensuing decades of Joe’s stewardship, ASHP has worked with practitioners to develop and publish nearly 100 other standards, guidelines, technical assistance bulletins, and position papers. Although the creation of these documents was always for the purpose of improving patient care, collateral benefits were the improved status of the profession and high regard for ASHP for having the courage and diligence to continually raise the mark in pharmacy practice. The Formulary System Among other elements, the minimum standards document called for the implementation of formulary systems in hospitals. Formularies were intended to allow pharmacy and therapeutics (P&T) committees in hospitals to control costs and maintain patient care by allowing the hospital to select one product from its therapeutic equivalents. Controversy over this matter pitted the pharmaceutical industry, represented by the National Pharmaceutical Council (NPC), and medicine, represented by the American Medical Association (AMA), against the prerogatives of pharmacists granted by consent of P&T committees. Several years of heated debate, along with threatened and actual litigation, culminated in two breakthroughs. In 1960, AHA and ASHP issued a joint statement on the legal basis of the hospital formulary system and guiding principles for operating a hospital formulary system. AMA was not involved in creating this draft, and its concerns forced another summit in 1963. At that juncture, AHA, AMA, APhA, and ASHP met and revised the 1960 Statement of Guiding Principles on the Operation of the Hospital Formulary System to the mutual satisfaction of the parties involved and in a way that did not alienate the pharmaceutical industry and jeopardize its support of ASHP. Many believe that Joe Oddis’s gentlemanly manner, quiet perseverance, forthrightness, and nonconfrontational style were largely responsible for this outcome. In 1986 the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (PMA) officially accepted the concept of therapeutic interchange for hospital inpatients but opposed its application in other settings. ASHP’s persistence on the formulary issue also holds historical import: When the Medicare bill was enacted in 1965, Medicare administrators borrowed freely from ASHP’s statements and standards to create standards for institutional health care. The use of a formulary system was among the eligibility requirements for Medicare reimbursement. Likewise, in 1965 the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals deemed an active P&T committee essential for hospital accreditation. Hospital Pharmacy Residency Training Another key objective mentioned in the ASHP Constitution was to ensure adequate training of pharmacists for institutional practice. ASHP grappled with this issue for almost two decades before a 1962 ASHP conference attended by 70 prospective internship preceptors (and eight allied health organizations, attending as observers) produced the first Statement on Accreditation of Hospital Pharmacy Internship Training Programs. Joe Oddis marks the success of residency accreditation activity as one of the hallmarks of his years at ASHP. While extremely costly to ASHP in dollars, the necessity of this activity and its contribution to ASHP’s mission have never been questioned. The program has been responsible for elevating the level of practice and patient care at the sites where residencies are conducted, but more important, residents “go forth” and elevate the level of practice at the sites where they are subsequently employed. The 10,000th resident has now graduated from an ASHP-accredited program; there are currently 375 accredited programs. ASHP Executive Residency in Association Management On an airplane returning to Washington after a conference in 1967, Joe Oddis and Warren McConnell, who was ASHP Director of Education and Training, hatched the idea of a residency in association management. Initiated in 1968, the ASHP executive residency prepares graduates in the health care field (to date, all have been pharmacists) to be association executives by providing a firm grounding in association management through a focused, hands-on, one-year course of study. Joe conceived the program to provide ASHP’s affiliated state societies with executives trained in association management as well as in a health-related profession. This reflects remarkable vision, because in 1968 no state society was ready for full-time staffing. Since that time, 5 of the 26 graduates of the program have staffed state associations and 11 have served on the staff of national associations, including ASHP, APhA, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, NARD (now the National Community Pharmacists Association [NCPA]), the American Society of Consultant Pharmacists (ASCP), the American College of Apothecaries (ACA), and the National Wholesale Druggists Association. All have successful careers. ASHP Research and Education Foundation As early as 1952, the ASHP House of Delegates resolved to develop a policy on accepting research grants. But it was not until 1969 that tax and legal requirements were finalized to create the ASHP Research and Education Foundation. It started with a $100,000 gift from Kenneth P. Lusher, president of Intra Corporation, an early manufacturer of unit dose packaged pharmaceuticals. Interorganizational Liaison ASHP has a long history of cultivating mutually beneficial relationships with health-related organizations. As early as 1944, Don Francke gave high priority to working with AHA, and that relationship led to AHA, APhA, and ASHP cosponsorship of the early institutes on hospital pharmacy. When Joe Oddis moved from AHA to ASHP, those ties continued, and others were initiated or expanded. The Society had close ties with the Catholic Hospital Association because many of the early leaders of ASHP were Catholic Sisters. Around 1960, the ASHP leadership began to recognize that the stature of hospital pharmacists and of the Society would be enhanced if there were more and stronger relationships with other health care organizations. In Joe Oddis’s early years, joint committees were established with the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP), AHA, and the American Nurses Association, and a liaison committee with the National League for Nursing began to function. By the early 1970s, the Society had established liaisons with the American Society of Internal Medicine and the Association for Respiratory Therapy. ASHP participated in programs of the American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics (ASCPT). The Society became an affiliated institutional member of AACP in 1976. In that same year, ASHP also formed a joint committee with ASCP. The following year the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education elected ASHP to membership, and the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP) included an ASHP representative on its committee on innovative pharmacy practice. Joe Oddis was officially and actively involved in programming for the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In the mid- to late-1970s, ASHP established interactions with various government groups (e.g., the Food and Drug Administration and the Health Care Financing Administration, which administers Medicare) for the purpose of promulgating ASHP practice standards and thereby advancing pharmacy practice. ASHP took an active part in the Joint Commission on Prescription Drug Use with the American Academy of Family Physicians, AHA, AMA, APhA, ASCPT, the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, and PMA. This commission was formed by Senator Edward Kennedy to challenge the pharmaceutical industry to develop programs for review of prescription drug use. In 1977, the Society was an organizer of the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners (JCPP), a group that continues to function vigorously. Current JCPP members include all of the national pharmacy practitioner organizations: ASHP, APhA, ASCP, the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy, the American College of Clinical Pharmacy, NCPA, and ACA. AACP, NABP, and the National Council of State Pharmacy Association Executives are liaison members. ASHP is also a founding member of the National Council on Patient Information and Education, and Joe Oddis has served on the board of directors of that organization since its inception. Each year, ASHP sends representatives to more than a dozen health-related groups, including the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, where the Society is represented on several committees. ASHP also maintains liaisons with the American Association of Pharmacy Technicians and the Pharmacy Technician Educators Council. On the international front, ASHP officers and the officers of the Canadian Society of Hospital Pharmacists meet annually to compare notes and examine opportunities that will be of mutual benefit. Good relationships exist with the European Association of Hospital Pharmacists and the European Society of Clinical Pharmacists. Of course, FIP is a major international connection and a conduit for relationships with many other international pharmacy organizations. In recent years, relationships have been established with several organizations in the managed care field and with home care groups, organizations focusing on health care and information management technology, and the National Conference of State Legislators. These relationships exist primarily because Joe Oddis, perhaps more than any other association executive, believes strongly that conflicts among associations can be best resolved by working together quietly, behind the scenes. Separation of ASHP from APhA Beginning with the creation of the APhA Division on Hospital Pharmacy in 1947, and for many years thereafter, ASHP enjoyed guest occupancy of offices at APhA headquarters in Washington, D.C. Even after the Division was abolished in 1962, ASHP and APhA continued this arrangement for four more years. During that period, APhA had built an annex to its building and had moved most of its staff into the new quarters. The growth of ASHP’s staff in the early 1960s occurred at a time when there was substantial unused office space at APhA. ASHP ultimately occupied over half of the space in the original APhA building before APhA’s own staff grew to the point that it needed the space. When ASHP began looking for its own office space, it was accustomed to operating with no overhead and thus was eager to find inexpensive quarters. In 1966 ASHP leased space at 4630 Montgomery Avenue in Bethesda. The Society originally occupied only half of the building. Other tenants included the Berlitz School of Languages, the Arthur Murray Dance Studio, AACP, the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, and Mathematica, a research firm. Five years later, ASHP had an opportunity to buy the building, so it did. In the ensuing years, ASHP gradually took over the entire building. By 1992, ASHP’s 50th anniversary, space constraints forced ASHP to relocate to its current modern headquarters at 7272 Wisconsin Avenue, only a few blocks away in Bethesda. By the early 1970s, the number of pharmacists practicing in hospitals was growing dramatically, as 24-hour pharmacy service, i.v. admixture services, and residency training took a firm hold. When ASHP was founded in 1942, one requirement in its Bylaws was that ASHP members also be members of APhA. As the years passed, ASHP members and leaders felt that this requirement was hampering the growth of ASHP membership. In 1972, ASHP members voted to delete from the Bylaws the requirement of membership in APhA. Between 1973 and 1976, ASHP membership grew from approximately 7,000 to 15,300. Even after ASHP severed its formal affiliation with APhA, Joe Oddis continued to search for a mechanism to maintain pharmacy unity. He proposed a joint commission of pharmacy organizations, and ASHP and other pharmacy associations grappled with this idea for several years. The ultimate outcome was the formation of JCPP in 1977. The chairmanship of JCPP rotates among member organizations. International Involvement ASHP’s relationships with the international pharmacy community were initiated by Don Francke in 1952. The Society invited two officers of FIP to attend its 10th anniversary meeting in Philadelphia. In turn, the FIP guests hosted ASHP’s delegation to the First International Congress on Hospital Pharmacy in Basel, Switzerland, later that year. For the next 25 years, Don and Gloria Francke represented ASHP at FIP meetings. In his new capacity as Executive Secretary of ASHP, Joe Oddis attended his first FIP meeting in Vienna, Austria, in 1962. That was the beginning of his long-term involvement in FIP. He served as president of the FIP section on hospital pharmacy from 1977 to 1982, was elected FIP vice president in 1984, and began a four-year term as FIP president in 1986, becoming the first non-European ever to hold this office. Joe recalls that in the early years of participation in FIP, ASHP learned a lot from its international colleagues. Their involvement in the manufacture of medicinal products was more advanced than ASHP’s. But over the years, as the clinical pharmacy movement grew, ASHP representatives could in turn teach their colleagues at FIP meetings. Involvement in FIP improved ASHP’s status in the world community. It also contributed to changing FIP from a European organization to a global one. On a higher level, ASHP’s international involvement has helped improve the human condition. It has helped countries to accelerate advances in their health care systems. Now, U.S. pharmacy is learning through FIP about managed care applications in other countries. A Vision for All of Pharmacy Among the strong characteristics of Joe Oddis are his deep desire to advance the profession of pharmacy, his intuition about what will further the profession’s progress, and his willingness to invest in his hunches. Early in his career he adopted a progressive view about the pharmacist’s role in health care—a view that has been a continual source of stimulation and direction for ASHP in the face of shifting fads and jargon in the profession’s discourse. Joe has a sixth sense about how to build support for doing the right thing. Often, the Oddis technique for establishing a clear direction has been a conference or a study task force. In 1962, for example, Joe pulled together key opinion leaders in hospital pharmacy when he felt it was time to move forward with residency accreditation. On several occasions, such as a 1971 conference with AACP in Overland Park, Kansas, on clinical education, Joe brought together leading pharmacy educators and practitioners to discuss how to advance clinical pharmacy. Joe has devoted much time and energy to building professionwide support for technicians, as exemplified by the ASHP Task Force on Technical Personnel in Pharmacy in the late 1980s and the creation of the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board in 1995. In these initiatives, as in so many others, affiliated state societies played a vital role in the Oddis game plan. Joe Oddis continued to search for a mechanism to maintain pharmacy unity. He proposed a joint commission of pharmacy organizations, and ASHP and other pharmacy associations grappled with this idea for several years. Joe has believed strongly that pharmacy education should offer only the doctor of pharmacy degree for entry to practice. When ASHP adopted this policy position in 1978, Joe became one of the profession’s most persistent advocates for this reform. In public forums, he would often find himself surrounded by skeptics. But Joe would calmly speak up and, with grace and dignity, articulate a vision for the profession that demanded doctoral-level training. Characteristically, he would reflect respect for those who held contrary views. Over the years, Joe’s patient, courteous style has slowly paid off, and he has created many converts to his way of thinking about pharmacy education. These few examples show Joe to be a leader of all of pharmacy, not just an advocate for a narrow interest within the profession. Recognition The success of ASHP under Joe Oddis’s leadership has not gone unnoticed. Joe has received six Doctor of Science (honoris causa) degrees. The first, in 1975, was bestowed by the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, and his alma mater, Duquesne University, granted him this honorary degree in 1989. He has received numerous awards, including the most prestigious in all of pharmacy: the Harvey A. K. Whitney Lecture Award, presented by ASHP in 1970; the Hugo H. Schaefer Award, presented by APhA in 1983; the Donald E. Francke Medal, presented by ASHP in 1986; the Remington Honor Medal, presented by APhA in 1990; and the André Bédat Award, presented by FIP in 1994. Joe’s recognition extends far beyond degrees and awards; beyond the appointments and elections to positions in scientific, professional, and learned societies; beyond his numerous advisory appointments to academic institutions; and beyond his numerous honorary memberships. The recognition he values most is that which has come to him through his closest associates and even his passing acquaintances. Without clamor for distinction or recognition, Joe has gained the respect and admiration of professional colleagues in all arenas. He has wonderful methods of trolling for ideas in which staff and visitors can exchange thoughts, frustrations, and much laughter. He is very accessible and loves to talk to all kinds of people. He is at home with students, business executives, and leaders in every field—kings and queens on some occasions, as well as waiters and cooks and the other people all of us depend on. To have come from so modest a background and achieved such significant distinction and international renown is a measure not only of ability but of an inner strength. We all get wise as we get older. The trick is to gain wisdom while you are still young enough to have it do you some good, and Joe seems to have done this. He is the consummate philosopher. In a self-effacing way, he teaches without seeming to teach, counsels without seeming to counsel. Personal and professional respect for Joe comes in part from his natural and acquired attributes. He has a wonderful sense of balance. Whatever happens, he never gets too high or too low. He has faith in the future. He never seems to be in a hurry. He never intrudes; he never chides or scolds; he rarely complains. He is very spiritual. In all his successes, his life’s work involves more than dates, events, and places; it involves more than buildings and books and money. In all Joe’s work, people are most significant. He is a real “people person.” He has never lost sight of the real purpose of the Society, nor of the needs and expectations of the members. To have come from so modest a background and achieved such significant distinction and international renown is a measure not only of ability but of an inner strength. We all get wise as we get older. The trick is to gain wisdom while you are still young enough to have it do you some good, and Joe seems to have done this. For “wise” is always one of the words used to describe Joe. Other attributes that come quickly to mind in describing him include integrity, honesty, and fairness. He is compassionate, loyal, principled, resourceful, generous, dignified, and gracious. And he is widely acknowledged to be a great raconteur. His strength is not in aggression; his strength is in his convictions, his power in consistency. Joe will be remembered as a man of dedication, simplicity, and integrity who has never abandoned either principles or people. The Society has been guided by these same strengths during his tenure. References REMEMBRANCES: ASHP Past Presidents David A. Zilz You never know in life when a particular event will turn out to have long-term significance. In the spring of 1965, at the joint annual meetings of APhA and ASHP in Detroit, I was chatting with Paul Parker and my boss, Win Durant, when Joe Oddis approached us and I was introduced to him. So began a half century of collaboration and friendship with a person who demonstrated superb leadership in both his personal and professional lives. Joe spoke often about his principles for success in pharmacy. He believed that hospital pharmacy directors should take command of their department’s practice model, anchoring it firmly in patient care. He encouraged practice leaders to base their department’s services on value and sustainability. Joe’s innate personality and style suited ASHP well. To practitioners and educators who volunteered for service on an ASHP committee, Joe expressed sincere appreciation for their work at home and with ASHP. He treated everyone with respect, including those with whom he disagreed. I never heard him utter any foul language in all the years of our relationship. His compassion became evident to me when my father died while I was at the 1981 Midyear Clinical Meeting; his consoling words made me feel that I was the only person in the world that he was worried about at the moment. I witnessed his attentiveness when he requested me on one occasion to deliver an after-dinner liqueur to Sister Gonzales and her guests in their suite during a conference. Joe’s strength as a teacher came to the fore when he oriented new Board members and officers on their roles in governance. He was very clear about his expectations. He wanted us to ask the unasked questions based on our perspectives, which were different than the perspectives of staff. Joe stressed the importance of preparedness for every meeting or conference. And he made sure that we understood that ego should never get in the way of doing what is right. He was a fiscal conservative when it came to ASHP finances, but he was bold in encouraging the Board to approve investments in member services or activities that had prospects for a good return. Joe stressed the importance of social skills in building relationships, which led me to give toasts and mingle at social events, abilities not mastered on the farm where I grew up. Joe loved a good joke, even when the Board of Directors played one on him. At one of our meetings, we deliberated long and hard on a particular controversial topic and finally reached a decision. During the break that followed, Board members conspired to quickly introduce and approve a motion to reverse that decision. When we reconvened, Joe seemed nonplussed for a brief moment but quickly caught the joke and had a good laugh with us. There is a lot of buzz in the management literature today about “executive presence.” Joe Oddis epitomized that concept long before the term was invented. Think about the behaviors that are said to be part of executive presence: having a vision and articulating it well; understanding how others experience you; building your communication skills; becoming an excellent listener; cultivating your network and building political savvy; learning to operate effectively under stress; and making sure your appearance isn’t a distraction. These facets of executive presence match perfectly the style and demeanor of Joe Oddis. Joe consistently excelled in his professional responsibilities while nurturing, with love and loyalty, other spheres of his life, including family and faith. He enjoyed life’s simple pleasures—leisurely dining, fine wine, a good cigar, the company of friends. As I reflect back on that pivotal moment in Detroit in 1965, I am thankful to be one of the few still on this planet to have had so many years of knowing a truly remarkable man. Thank you, Joe. David A. Zilz, BSPharm, MS, FASHP, Emeritus Clinical Professor, University of Wisconsin School of Pharmacy, served as ASHP President (1980–81) and ASHP Treasurer (1995–2001). He lives in rural central Wisconsin. Marianne F. Ivey With a lot to learn, I was fortunate to have been elected to the ASHP Board of Directors early in my career. Who better to observe and learn from than Joseph Oddis with respect to the ways of association leadership and governance. As one of the first clinician practitioners on the ASHP Board, my experience base consisted of early morning rounds, teaching patients at their bedside, hustling to the classroom to teach students, inhaling lunch, taking follow-up calls from the hospital, rushing to get to daycare before closing, fixing dinner, working on articles and lectures, prepping family for the next day, rinse and repeat. It wasn’t relaxed or elegant. At ASHP Board meetings, Dr. Oddis updated us on the business of a growing, vibrant organization. He guided us through the meeting agenda at a deliberate pace with grace and spiritual thoughtfulness, followed by a long dinner to close out the day. He cultivated leadership in Board members by his dignified bearing, reviews of issues on the professional horizon, insightful discussions of what worked well or not so well in the past, and summaries of proven strategies and tactics for advancing hospital pharmacy. Although it was uncommon to have a woman at the Board table, Dr. Oddis encouraged my input and expression of my perspectives. His wife Jeanne and the Catholic nuns in his earlier life, who held their own in any conversation, might have nurtured his lack of gender bias. When I was elected President of ASHP, I had increased exposure to his mentorship and leadership style. The top Board-level issues at the time were expanding the roles of pharmacy technicians, developing ASHP Special Interest Groups, creating the ASHP Practitioner Recognition Program, and strengthening the ASHP Foundation. We kept an eye on the tensions between pharmacy academia and hospitals stemming from the expansion of clinical education at practice sites. We were watchful of the new professional organization being formed for specialists in clinical pharmacy practice, education, and research. Board members expressed a range of opinions and recommendations concerning ASHP’s stance in these matters while Dr. Oddis urged us to avoid actions or statements that could easily be perceived as defensive or threatening. In a paper I wrote for my MPH studies, I concluded that Dr. Oddis believed an organization has many constituents and that there is a long-term benefit to adapt and continue one’s path of strength rather than to provoke or react harshly. Dr. Oddis had strong values, but I never saw him advocate steps that would close doors or cut off discussion. As a member of the Poison Prevention Week Council, ASHP was invited to a White House ceremony on March 22, 1982, to express appreciation for the Council’s efforts to protect children from accidental poisonings. Dr. Oddis facilitated my attendance when he could have easily gone himself. A photograph of President Ronald Reagan and me from that event hangs near my desk and continues to remind me of Joe’s generosity. As ASHP President, I accompanied Joe to an annual congress of the International Pharmaceutical Federation and saw firsthand the value of his graciousness, quiet strength, and listening ability in maneuvering through the politics of an international body. Later, I became quite active in FIP, especially in the leadership of the Hospital Pharmacy Section. When I received the ASHP Donald E. Francke Medal in 2017, I was happy that Joe and his daughter Marie were in the audience to hear my expression of gratitude to him for engaging me in the work of advancing pharmacy on a global level. In recent years when I was in Washington, D.C., or at an ASHP meeting, Joe and I would have lunch together, always with warm conversations about pharmacy, family, and life. He continued to be a role model for me. Rest in peace with angels, Joe. Marianne F. Ivey, PharmD, MPH, FASHP, FFIP, Professor Emerita, University of Cincinnati James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy, served as ASHP President in 1981–82; she lives in Washington State. John A. Gans Joseph Oddis touched the lives of thousands of people. I was fortunate to be one of them. I was introduced to Joe in 1968 by Herb Flack, the director of my hospital pharmacy residency program. A Past President of ASHP, Herb was very proud of the growth of hospital pharmacy and of ASHP under the leadership of Joe Oddis. My early impressions of Joe Oddis were that he was sophisticated yet humble, as well as thoughtful, engaging, and open to new ideas. He embraced those of us who were new to the profession, and by his example and guidance he showed us how to be an effective pharmacist leader. I did not imagine at the time that this man would become my mentor and professional colleague in the years to come. My early impressions of Joe Oddis were that he was sophisticated yet humble, as well as thoughtful, engaging, and open to new ideas. He embraced those of us who were new to the profession, and by his example and guidance he showed us how to be an effective pharmacist leader. My first opportunity to work closely with Joe was on the issue of unionization in the late 1960s. As was occurring elsewhere in the country, some hospitals in Philadelphia were being unionized, and pharmacists were at risk of being swept up in that movement even if they objected to representation by a traditional labor organization. I was the communications link between a group of concerned Philadelphia hospital pharmacists and ASHP as we sought guidance and direction. With Joe’s leadership, ASHP stepped up by arranging for legal advice, at its own expense. The state society of hospital pharmacists became the organization that represented pharmacists for conditions of employment at four hospitals in Philadelphia. Although Joe played a key role in this saga, he never sought personal credit for the successful outcome. He demonstrated the effectiveness of this leadership style throughout his career. As the President of ASHP in 1986, I traveled with Joe and Jeanne to the annual congress of the International Pharmaceutical Federation in Helsinki, Finland, where Joe was selected to lead that organization. He was the first non-European to become President of FIP. It was heartwarming to witness the respect that the delegates had for an American pharmacist and to sense their high regard for ASHP. When I was appointed CEO of the American Pharmaceutical Association (now the American Pharmacists Association), I reached out to Joe for guidance in transitioning to the position and in moving our family to the Washington, D.C., area. He helped us find the right neighborhood and suggested schools for our children. My wife Eileen enjoyed being around Joe, who, with a smile, kiddingly called her “McCarthy,” her maiden name. Joe and I partnered on many challenging issues, but we were never competitors. One issue that stands out in this regard was the educational standard for pharmacists, which had become divisive among practicing pharmacists in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Many of us believed that pharmacy would be a stronger profession if we had a single entry-level degree at the doctoral level. Because of Joe’s high esteem in the profession, I asked him to conduct a series of confidential meetings with the leaders of the National Association of Retail Druggists (now the National Community Pharmacists Association), APhA, and ASHP to seek common ground on this topic. The three organizations issued a joint statement in November 1991 calling for adoption of a new entry-level doctor of pharmacy degree. This statement, which was later endorsed by three other national pharmacy groups, became a key factor in resolving the issue. Again, with his clear thinking, diplomatic language, and self-effacement, Joe moved pharmacy in the right direction. I have fond memories of many personal conversations with Joe at the Bethesda Country Club. He was a treasured mentor and was always there for me. Joseph Oddis graced my life and our profession. He showed us the way forward. John A. Gans, PharmD, ScD (Hon), was President of ASHP, 1986–87, and Chief Executive Officer of APhA, 1989–2009. Philip J. Schneider My first meeting with Joseph Oddis was early in my professional career. It was toward the end of my residency at The Ohio State University Hospital at an interview for a position on the ASHP staff. I was a bit daunted by the prospect of meeting him, but he made me feel at ease soon after our conversation started. Little did I know how deep our relationship would become over the next 46 years. A decade later, I met with Joe to discuss the prospect of ASHP co-sponsoring, with the American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition, the petition to recognize nutrition support pharmacy practice as a specialty. We discussed and debated the philosophy of specialty recognition in pharmacy and the conceptual difference between the petition-writing effort I was leading and the petition to recognize pharmacotherapy. ASHP signed on as a co-sponsor. Joe provided an historic and conceptual framework that added depth and strength to the petition. He gave me insights into the work of ASHP in the context of the other professional organizations, including those outside of pharmacy. A few years later, Joe and I reconnected when I was nominated as a candidate for ASHP President. He may have been as surprised as I was about this because unlike most of the candidates for this office I had never served on the ASHP Board of Directors. He may have been even more surprised when I was elected and perhaps a little nervous because of my young age and lack of experience. When he called to inform me of the election results, he told me for the first of several times, “Now, act presidential.” As did others who found themselves in this position, I quickly learned what he meant by this edict. He made sure we knew the importance of representing ASHP in a positive way and coached us on how to do that. He made sure the President, not the Executive Vice President, was the public voice of ASHP. We learned from Joe what needed to be said, when to say it, and how to say it. And, in his eyes, we were an ASHP President forever. I will miss being addressed by Joe as “Mr. President” every time we met. He was respectful and grateful to those who were called to serve ASHP. One of the privileges of serving as ASHP President is representing the organization in the Council of the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP). The timing was such that I did this during Joe’s term as FIP President. I was introduced to the leadership of the organization and gained an in-depth exposure to, understanding of, and love for FIP and global pharmacy affairs. Joe was FIP president from 1986 to 1990, and his immense contributions to the organization cannot be overstated. Before the Oddis presidency, FIP had a part-time general secretary, few staff members, no headquarters, limited financial reserves, and no philanthropic arm. Over the course of Joe’s leadership, FIP employed a full-time general secretary, built up its staff, occupied a headquarters building in The Hague, and created the FIP Foundation. In recognition of Joe’s leadership, FIP created an award in his name—the Joseph A. Oddis Award for Exceptional Service to FIP. He made sure we knew the importance of representing ASHP in a positive way and coached us on how to do that. He made sure the President, not the Executive Vice President, was the public voice of ASHP. We learned from Joe what needed to be said, when to say it, and how to say it. ASHP named its Bethesda headquarters in Joe’s honor, an excellent tribute to this remarkable pharmacy statesman and the contributions he made to ASHP, American pharmacy, and the profession worldwide. Philip J. Schneider, MS, FASHP, FFIP, FASPEN, is Professor, College of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University; he served as President of ASHP in 1988–89. Jannet M. Carmichael My relationship with Joseph Oddis began in 1987 with my election to the ASHP Board of Directors. Board members travel to Bethesda multiple times per year for meetings, and because I lived in the West, I generally arrived later in the day than others. Joe clearly had dealt with this and many similar issues over the years while breaking in new elected officials. He enjoyed hosting social get-togethers the evening before a Board meeting. I found out quickly that most Board members congregated in Joe’s office for his regular after-5 session before going to dinner at one of his favorite Bethesda restaurants. This ritual was a great way for new Board members to bond and form strong relationships. At heart, Joe was an engaging conversationalist and enjoyed being around people. He often referred to social interactions as “intelligence gathering.” Joe’s interests and demeanor made you feel that humane values and dignity should guide your life. He exhibited integrity, good manners, and sensitivity in the way he treated others. Joe listened more than he spoke. When he did speak he could be persistent and persuasive, especially when he had his mind set on a particular objective. By 1992, when I became ASHP President, pharmacy had shifted from a male- to a female-dominated profession. However, the number of female ASHP presidents had been few. It had been 10 years since Marianne Ivey had been President, and there was a lot of talk about breaking the “glass ceiling” in the elected leadership of ASHP. Joe, always a quick study, seemed to understand this, and I never felt any gender bias from him. If you could do your job, he found a place for you to contribute; he knew how to apply many types of talent to achieve a good outcome. ASHP reached many milestones in 1992–93, and we hosted many celebrations! Among them were the 50th anniversary of ASHP’s founding; the 25th anniversary of the ASHP Foundation; and the purchase of a new headquarters building at 7272 Wisconsin Avenue in Bethesda. Joe had been watching the escalation of Bethesda real estate prices. He had his eye on a new location for ASHP, and the time was right. He liked the idea of an address on Wisconsin Avenue, a major thoroughfare in the region. Our due diligence in making this purchase entailed many fascinating details, all of them new to us (e.g., the “air rights” over which the building was constructed; plans for an additional subway entrance on the property; the income potential from retail space, including a movie theatre, that was part of the property). The building’s prime location, and the subsequent more intensive development of the Bethesda business district, made this an excellent investment. Joe had a keen eye for business opportunities and excellent timing in pursuing them, which contributed to the growth and success of ASHP. One of my last acts as President was to initiate discussions with Joe about succession planning for the CEO position at ASHP. This topic, while it can be sensitive and difficult to address, is an essential part of organizational leadership—yet another opportunity for me to grow while I learned from Joe. Joseph Oddis, through his principled approach to work and life, offered rich lessons for success in expanding and nurturing an organization that became a major force in elevating the profession of pharmacy. I am grateful that I had him as a mentor. Jannet M. Carmichael, BSPharm, PharmD, FCCP, FAPhA, BCPS, is the owner of Pharm Consult NV LLC and lives in Nevada; she was President of ASHP in 1992–93. All of us who have had any interest whatever in the advancement of clinical pharmacy and hospital pharmacy owe you an enormous debt of gratitude for the leadership you have shown in bringing pharmacists into the mainstream of clinical medicine. You undertook these tasks when such efforts were not always appreciated either by pharmacists, physicians, or other health professionals. With energy, enthusiasm, and great diplomatic skill, you guided ASHP through its most memorable period of development and growth. Edmund D. Pellegrino, Joseph and Rose Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown University Rebecca S. Finley I knew early in my career ASHP would be “my professional organization.” My mentors had shown me how ASHP had positively influenced the practice of pharmacy in hospitals (and beyond) and developed many tools to enable pharmacists to improve patient care, broaden their scope of practice, and develop leadership skills. I saw firsthand that Dr. Oddis had assembled talented staff members to greatly advance fulfillment of ASHP’s mission. They created powerful tools and strategies that helped practitioners improve patient safety and optimize the use of drugs. Well before the healthcare field put a major emphasis on teamwork, ASHP, under Dr. Oddis’s leadership, demonstrated the synergy of teamwork between elected volunteer leaders and employed staff leaders. ASHP’s brand of teamwork, nurtured by Dr. Oddis, contributed to remarkable advances in the programs, stature, and achievements of ASHP. In the early 1990s when I was elected to the ASHP Board of Directors, I observed that Dr. Oddis was always quick to shift attention away from himself and acknowledge the work of team members. He was a careful and thoughtful listener who interjected his experience and observations in a considerate and helpful manner. Before I was chosen as President-elect in 1994, it had been announced that Dr. Oddis would be retiring as CEO a year after I completed my term as President. A committee had begun to screen a group of exceptional candidates for the position. It was a challenging time for everyone—the Board, the staff, and, of course, Dr. Oddis. Transitioning from an exceptionally successful executive of long tenure can be difficult unless handled with extraordinary care. The Board and staff were focused on assuring that Dr. Oddis’s legacy would be honored and preserved and that the transition would be seamless. Dr. Oddis recognized that the responsibility for recruiting his successor was in the hands of the Board of Directors, and he provided valuable insight and procedural advice throughout the selection process. As I approach my own retirement, I have a new appreciation for the leadership, dignity, and wisdom Dr. Oddis demonstrated throughout the ASHP CEO transition. When the CEO-designate, Dr. Henri Manasse, was selected, there was never any doubt that Dr. Oddis was fully committed to the continued success of ASHP. Months into the transition, Dr. Oddis told me that he and Dr. Manasse shared common values and vision for our profession and that ASHP executive leadership would be in very capable hands. I slept well that night—perhaps better than I had in the previous 18 months. It is clear to me now as a Past President that ASHP is, in large measure, a direct reflection of your mentorship of our leaders (i.e., officers, Board members, staff, etc.) as well as your stewardship as a professional executive. As I see things now, we are truly at the very top of the professional organization world and it’s not been an accident—you’ve planned and facilitated it! Paul G. Pierpaoli, ASHP Past President Rebecca S. Finley, PharmD, MS, FASHP, is Dean, College of Pharmacy, Thomas Jefferson University. She was ASHP President in 1995–96. Sara J. White I had the opportunity to work with and observe Joseph Oddis during my nearly decade-long service as an ASHP elected official (at-large member of the Board of Directors, Chair of the House of Delegates, and presidential officer). Many facets of the “Oddis method” influenced my own growth as a pharmacy practice and organizational leader. The video-recorded interview I conducted with Joe in 2013 provides insights into how his personal traits and philosophy contributed to his success (see: www.youtube.com/watch?v=psJN3G3nVWE). Joe had a genuine interest in the lives of the people with whom he worked—ASHP staff, Board members, international colleagues. This created respect, loyalty, and support for his leadership. He was an excellent listener. In meetings he wouldn’t say much until the end, when he asked a thought-provoking question that often influenced the group’s final decision. Joe built an excellent staff by hiring persons who showed promise and letting them do their jobs without micromanaging them. He made those who were engaged in ASHP’s work—staff, Board members, committee members—feel like they were part of a family enterprise (I certainly felt that way as an elected official). Many facets of the “Oddis method” influenced my own growth as a pharmacy practice and organizational leader. The video-recorded interview I conducted with Joe in 2013 provides insights into how his personal traits and philosophy contributed to his success. Joe recognized the value of an accreditation program for residencies in pharmacy practice and was willing to have ASHP underwrite the cost of that program for many years before fees were charged. He simply knew this was the right thing to do. Joe believed that healthcare organizations would benefit from having a cadre of individuals trained in organizational affairs. This belief led him to create the ASHP Executive Residency in Association Management program. Joe was clear about his role as an employee of ASHP, which was to serve as a coach and not the decision maker on matters of policy and strategic direction. That clarity was appreciated in the work of the ASHP Committee on Nominations. If asked his opinion on a particular person as a potential candidate, he would decline to answer and remind the committee it was their choice, not his. This role clarity came from his integrity and personal values, which he lived out every day. I don’t think he consciously applied some type of principles-based formula in situations like this; he just naturally functioned from an innate sense of what was right. An important facet of leadership is following through on what you said you were going to do. Leading by example is very powerful, and Joe excelled at it. If people can’t trust you, you can’t expect them to follow you as their leader. Joe learned to handle rejection of his plans by taking what he could get and refining his thinking and reintroducing the idea when the time seemed right. Again and again, he demonstrated the importance of patience in a leader. In his 37 years as CEO, he transformed ASHP into a premier pharmacy organization in the United States and around the world. I am a more effective leader because of Joseph Oddis. will always be grateful for the privilege I had to learn from him. Sara J. White, MS, FASHP, lives in California and is a consultant and speaker on pharmacy leadership development. She was ASHP President in 1996–97. REPRISE Accorded the Designation, “A Remarkable Pharmacist” Published in 1973, a small book edited by two well-known academics, William L. Blockstein, Ph.D., and C. Boyd Granberg, Ph.D., featured autobiographies by 13 “Remarkable Pharmacists,” including Joseph A. Oddis. The editors wrote that the book’s personal histories represented “the many who have achieved success and satisfaction from pharmacy,” and expressed the hope that their stories would “motivate others to choose pharmacy as a rewarding and happy life experience.” The themes in Oddis’s brief memoir include his philosophy of life, humble origins, fateful introduction to pharmacy and hospital practice, stereotypical views of pharmacists, the value of teamwork, and the selfless commitment to good patient care demonstrated by most people in the health field. Home, Hospitals and Health Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. Home, Hospitals and Health. In: Blockstein WL, Granberg CB, eds. Remarkable Pharmacists. West Des Moines, IA: RobLee Hill Publishing; 1973:17–23. Every man at some point in his career comes to the realization that he has developed a philosophy for living. To some, this may occur at a very young age, perhaps in elementary school or junior high school or in high school in preparation for a course of study in college. Others may not come to this realization until well established in a career with responsibilities relating to job and family. In any case, it is unlikely that this realization can be identified with a single experience or a particular acquaintance or a specific course of study. Rather, I suspect it evolves because of all of these happenings and many more. At a very early age, I acquired an appreciation for work, commitment, and involvement. My parents. Italian immigrants essentially without formal education, in their simple, uncomplicated manner provided a life style which called for work, commitment, and involvement. Even after these many years, I can see my father leaving home at 5:00 A.M. each morning to report to the coal mine shaft to be lowered to the depths of the mine where he would spend eight hours shut off from the light of day. And following our dinner meal, he would collapse on the couch, spent and weary from digging coal far below the earth’s surface. It was this example and many other hardships my parents endured as immigrants which must have prompted my brother, who is a physician, and me to dedicate ourselves to hard work, to a deep desire for a good education, to an appreciation of the value of living, to respect for authority and fellow man, and to a belief that life on earth is fleeting and an interlude between now and a hereafter. We were never wanting for encouragement to excel in whatever we did, even though it was not within the ability of our parents to provide specific guidance or direction in choosing a career. In this respect, I have often reflected on the extremes which parents apply today in directing their children—whether by applying a rigid set of rules or by providing no rules whatsoever. How much better it would be, I believe, to instill in children an appreciation of such virtues as love and respect and honesty and integrity. I have always found it fascinating to inquire of people how they chose to do what they are doing and the set of circumstances leading to that choice. It is rare, I have found, that people always know exactly what they want to do and then develop a plan of action to achieve that objective. Rather, it seems to be more a case of choosing and, after a period of time followed by evaluation, of choosing again—a sequence which may occur many times in a lifetime. This may be true not only in choosing a particular pursuit but even more so in adapting to facets of a single pursuit as one moves through a lifetime. When it came time for me to think about collegiate studies, it was more a case of concluding what I thought I did not want to study. I did not, I thought, want to study medicine because of my apprehension for assuming responsibility for another person’s life. Having studied music throughout elementary and high school years, I was more or less convinced music would be my career. The thought of becoming a pharmacist had never occurred to me. As a matter of fact, even after pharmacy was suggested to me, I am not certain I truly understood what being a pharmacist encompassed. I say this in view of my reluctance to consider medicine because this meant assuming responsibility for the life of another. It was only much later, when I was in pharmacy school. I realized that the responsibility for a patient’s well-being was a shared responsibility of physicians, pharmacists, nurses, and a host of other health professionals. Undoubtedly, my lack of appreciation for the pharmacist’s inherent responsibility for the patient’s well-being had something to do with the image of pharmacy I had acquired in my own community. At that time, I didn’t even realize that pharmacy was practiced in the institutional setting. What then caused me to become interested in pharmacy? In my little community of Muse, Pennsylvania, located some twenty miles south of Pittsburgh, Father James Biller, a newly ordained priest, served as assistant pastor. Having attended Duquesne University, he encouraged me to consider his alma mater and, in fact, took me to Pittsburgh to meet the dean of the school of music. It was Father Biller who also introduced me to Dr. Hugh C. Muldoon, dean of the school of pharmacy, whom he admired while he was an undergraduate at the University. In a short interview which couldn’t have lasted more than thirty minutes, I was so impressed by Dean Muldoon, his personality, his eloquence, his goodness, that I was determined I wanted to study under him. I am certain it was not the attraction of pharmacy as much as the magnetism of the man that caused me to apply for admission to the school of pharmacy. In retrospect, pharmacy was a good choice, but even if it had turned out not to be so, the honor and privilege of having studied under Dr. Muldoon would have more than compensated for any inconvenience in adjusting to a new course of study. I do not today remember very much of the technical and scientific teachings of Dean Muldoon, but his lessons and personal example in humanism made lasting impressions. He was a perfect gentleman with impeccable manners and a sensitivity for social graces. Without uttering a single word, his entry into a classroom brought respectful silence. He expected a great deal from his students, but those who were receptive received a great deal in return. One could not help but gain a tremendous appreciation for work, commitment, and involvement as a result of the example of Dean Muldoon. A second coincidence brought to my attention and interest the institutional practice of pharmacy. As a youngster in my little community of Muse, Sunday meant Sunday School and religious instruction, and it was the Sisters of Mercy of Pittsburgh who served as our teachers. Sister Gonzales, who taught me Sunday School in those early years, served as the influence which, a decade or so later, prompted me to consider the institutional practice of pharmacy. How did it happen? Another coincidence. It wasn’t planned. It wasn’t programmed. While teaching me Sunday School, Sister was completing her studies for a masters degree in biology. More than a decade later, as a freshman at the Duquesne University School of Pharmacy, I met Sister again. Her community had need of a pharmacist for Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh, and Sister was chosen as the candidate who would attend pharmacy school. And so, my former Sunday School teacher was now a fellow student in pharmacy school—she a junior and I a freshman. From this reacquaintance came the invitation to work in the pharmacy and to live in the hospital which was located only several blocks from Duquesne University. The following four school years and summer intervals provided another opportunity to acquire an even greater appreciation for work, commitment, and involvement. It was during these years that I realized my apprehension concerning the study of medicine was without foundation. In fact, during my junior year in pharmacy school, I contemplated seriously the possibility of applying for medical school. After reviewing the admission requirements of some twenty medical schools, I even took additional studies during the summer months following my junior and senior years in pharmacy school. What an attitudinal departure from my precollege days! For a while after graduating, and particularly following two years of service in the Armed Forces, I even considered entering graduate school at the University of Pittsburgh and studying hospital administration. In retrospect, I have wondered why I was experiencing this interest in related fields. I have concluded that this must have been a searching on my part for an opportunity for greater involvement in the direct care of patients—an opportunity which did not exist in the way institutional pharmacy was practiced at that time. I doubt I would have sought other fields for direct patient interaction if institutional practice had developed to the point of clinical involvement as it is possible today. Life at Mercy Hospital during my undergraduate years at Duquesne University provided an invaluable experience in learning to work together with other health professionals during formative years. While the team concept for health care was in its infancy, living in the hospital for those four years and learning and working with medical interns and residents and nurses and representatives of other health disciplines gave me an insight regarding the interdependency which exists and must be appreciated by all components of the health team if patients are to derive the greatest benefits possible from such a collection of experts. Pharmacy, until very recently, failed to involve itself totally but chose to operate primarily on the periphery of the health care delivery system rather than within it. It becomes more obvious each day that health care delivery will be a structured system with the hospital serving as a main component of it. Pharmacy must be an integral part of, rather than isolated from, the system if it is to serve a useful purpose for society. The difficulty lies in achieving this integration which, I believe, will be realized only if students of the health disciplines—pharmacy, medical, nursing, dental, and others—develop a commonality of purpose and interest and commitment during their formative years in a learning environment familiar to all of them—the institutional setting. I recall when I served as director of pharmacy service at The Western Pennsylvania Hospital in Pittsburgh how difficult and frustrating it was to win the confidence of the medical and nursing staffs. Practically every offer to expand pharmacist involvement in patient care was eyed with suspicion. Even the most elementary suggestion to assist the physician or the nurse through greater pharmacist participation was questioned. One can appreciate this attitude, however, when considering the isolation that pharmacy in general had chosen for itself. Fortunately, we are witnessing dramatic attitudinal changes as the pharmacy student during his undergraduate years acquires clinical experience together with medical, dental, and nursing students in the institutional environment and with a common patient who becomes the recipient of their combined knowledge and expertise. Perhaps the greatest opportunity for acquiring an appreciation for work, commitment, and involvement came when I was invited to join the field of association work—first with the American Hospital Association and subsequently with the American Pharmaceutical Association and the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists. A spirit of respect for and openness toward the thinking of others is of fundamental importance to team work in any form. It is of particular importance in the association field. Men of similar outlook too often refuse teamwork—in caring for patients as in a hospital or in dealing with an issue as in association work. This refusal is based on the thinking that teamwork inevitably leads to principles giving way to compromises which are signs of weakness. This can operate among individuals working within the same association or among individuals representing different associations. One of the chief problems posed by teamwork is how to deal with divergencies of view. Under such circumstances, it becomes imperative to respect the commitment of others, however much we might disagree with another’s viewpoint. Pope Paul VI recognized very well how difficulties of a psychological order often tend to be represented as difficulties of principle when he stated: “Old positions hardened by bitter memories, mixed up with questions of prestige and subtle polemics, arouse reactions which tend to be represented as assertions of principle on which it would seem impossible to yield.” Anyone who has worked in the association field knows how often this is true and how necessary it is to have uncommon clearsightedness to understand and evaluate situations. Ambition is good if tempered. Unfortunately, and too often, we take ourselves rather than our jobs too seriously. In my sixteen years of association work at the national level, I have come to realize that most people in the health field are sincerely committed to hard work in the interest of good patient care. These individuals have developed a philosophy of living which requires a deep moral and spiritual interest in the health and welfare of others. This is a type of selflessness which is essential to any endeavor, but it is perhaps present to a greater degree in those who are concerned with and responsible for the health of others. As the health professional develops an appreciation for work, commitment, and involvement in behalf of the patient he serves and the profession of which he is a part, he must likewise exercise caution that such dedication does not interfere with his family responsibilities. Compromise in this regard can develop unknowingly—almost insidiously. A philosophy for living must represent a delicate balance of work, commitment, and involvement with family and with fellow man. One of your greatest achievements has been improving the image of the hospital pharmacist. When we first met more than 25 years ago, I recall talking to you about the image of the pharmacist, including hospital pharmacists. You have been most instrumental in building the hospital pharmacy profession into one of the most highly regarded in our industry. Robert J. Bolger, President, National Association of Chain Drug Stores REMEMBRANCES: ASHP Executive Residents Lawrence H. Leong His first words to me were, “Hi, I’m Joe Oddis, welcome to ASHP.” As the first person selected for the ASHP Executive Residency in Association Management program, I met Joe in late August 1968, a few days before the start of my appointment. After driving across the country from San Francisco to Bethesda, road-weary and in unfamiliar territory, I arrived at 4630 Montgomery Avenue to report my safe arrival. Upon my entering Joe’s office, he stood up and extended his hand in welcome. To this day, I remember his firm handshake, his gracious smile, and his bright sparkling eyes. Joe envisioned that state and national pharmacy organizations would grow in stature and membership and would need well-trained professional executives to meet member needs and attain organization goals. Hence, the rationale for the Executive Residency. The program still exists, now called the ASHP Executive Fellowship in Association Leadership and Management. My training included elements of association management as performed at ASHP. Warren McConnell taught about education and training and conferences. For publications, George Provost covered AJHP, Dwight Tousignaut championed International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and Domini Alteri tied it all together through graphics design. Mary Jo Reilly discussed AHFS, and George Downs explained membership services. Norman Hochman expounded on financial services. Executive management was the purview of Joe Oddis. Joe had a wonderful open-door management style. There were a minimum number of formal staff meetings. If you needed to get his opinion on something, you could go to his office or drop in for the relaxed after-5 information-gathering and exchange sessions. Joe had a wonderful open-door management style. There were a minimum number of formal staff meetings. If you needed to get his opinion on something, you could go to his office or drop in for the relaxed after-5 information-gathering and exchange sessions. While the Executive Residency program was certainly a significant innovation in association leadership, an even more consequential creation by Joe was the ASHP Midyear Clinical Meeting. The Midyear was spawned by a perfect storm: ASHP held its annual meeting in conjunction with that of the American Pharmaceutical Association, an arrangement that limited the Society’s options in planning its own event; the educational needs of hospital pharmacists were shifting toward clinical topics; and ASHP had untapped business opportunities in the area of conferences. What was ASHP to do? Joe probably thought, How about a meeting midway between annual meetings, with a clinical and practice emphasis, devoid of policy and governance matters, and with ASHP controlling all the financial facets of the meeting. And so, the Midyear Clinical Meeting was born. The Midyear was the responsibility of the Department of Education and Training, and I became Assistant Director of that department after I completed the Executive Residency. Later, in an organizational restructuring, I became Director of Meetings with responsibility for all ASHP meetings. After many years at ASHP, confident in my management training from Joe and others, I moved to other associations, including APhA, American College of Cardiology, and several other medical specialty societies. At all these positions, whenever I ran into a difficult situation or problem, I would think, What would Joe Oddis do? As a major positive force in ASHP and the profession of pharmacy, Joseph Oddis should be forever appreciated and honored. Personally, I will miss his smile and bright sparkling eyes. Perhaps the greatest manifestation of your success is the raising of the Midyear Clinical Meeting, which I had the great pleasure to attend for the first time last year. For so many reasons—size, scholarship, competition, camaraderie, sponsorship, and enthusiasm—it is held in frank admiration by European hospital pharmacists. I was particularly impressed by the way in which you have captured the interest of your young hospital pharmacists. Peter Noyce, District Pharmaceutical Officer, Islington Health Authority, London Lawrence H. Leong, PharmD, the first ASHP Executive Resident (1968–69), has retired after a long career in association management and is living in Maryland. John (Jack) T. Tighe III I first met Joe Oddis at the ASHP headquarters in 1978 when I was interviewing for the Executive Resident position. I was peppered with questions from the staff about my lack of interest in hospital pharmacy, and I left thinking there was no way I would be selected. Joe later told me my keen interest and somewhat singular focus on association management was what the program was designed for and that was why I was chosen. It was one of the best things that happened to me in my career, but even more fortuitous was that it led to a lifelong relationship with this remarkable man. Joe took pleasure in bestowing the basic kindnesses upon people he cared about, without regard to their status or rank. Tributes to Joe will use words like leadership, unassuming, gentle, kind, personable, respectful, mentor, strong moral character, gracious, and innovative. Based on my 43 years of knowing Joe, all these adjectives are true, and then some. Suffice it to say that Joe was a giver and not a taker. He took pleasure in bestowing the basic kindnesses upon people he cared about, without regard to their status or rank. His affection for and treatment of Walter Jones in the mail room was equal to how he treated senior staff and ASHP presidents and executive residents. His remembrances of our birthdays and anniversaries and interest in our families are legend. In my executive residency, Joe was my mentor, but he also became my friend. We liked each other. We both grew up in small towns in Pennsylvania but on opposite sides of the state. We shared stories about his hometown of Muse and mine of Dunmore. I kidded Joe that although he was from the “soft coal” bituminous region and I was from the “hard coal” anthracite region, we both had an affinity for Pittsburgh because we had attended pharmacy school there. I learned of his fondness for Sister Mary Gonzales, the first female president of ASHP. Sister had been his Sunday school teacher when he was in grade school, and later both were enrolled at the same time in the Duquesne University School of Pharmacy. He also worked with her at Mercy Hospital. During her ASHP presidency, Sister had an accident and was confined to a wheelchair. Joe gave me the assignment to make sure Sister got to Mass every morning during the 1978 Midyear Clinical Meeting in San Antonio. I viewed it as a high honor since I knew what she meant to him. We were never late for Mass! Joe loved the Bethesda Country Club and hosted many ASHP business and social functions there. This was also the place for Joe’s “vacations.” During the summer of my executive residency, I took a briefcase full of papers and journals to him at the Club. His idea of a vacation was wearing short sleeves and lounging around the Club pool catching up on his ASHP reading. Joe’s wife, Jeanne, worked the evening shift at Suburban Hospital, so I often had dinner alone with Joe at various restaurants in the Washington, D.C., area. One of his favorites was the Pines of Rome in Bethesda, where we could just show up and he would ask “the Maestro” to bring out whatever was good that night. Another favorite was The Jockey Club, where he introduced me to, and I almost always ordered, the Grand Marnier soufflé for dessert. We had a habit whereby Joe ate half his dessert and I ate mine and the rest of his; seems like we did that a hundred times. One night at The Jockey Club he introduced me to Congressman Paul Rogers (D-FL) and heaped accolades on me that were not deserved. That was typical of Joe. In those days, Joe would invariably call for the waiter to bring over a phone, and he would dial up an ASHP officer or past president to wish them Happy Birthday or just to touch base. Countless friends must have received such calls, but Joe made each person feel like he or she was the only one. One of my special dinners with Joe occurred when he invited me to his home in Bethesda, where I met his mother-in-law. She referred to him by his last name. She was dumbfounded that “Oddis” invited someone to dinner because, according to her, he had no idea how to cook. Problem solved, we ate TV dinners on TV trays and watched some TV. I am certain that is not an experience shared by many others. I loved it. Knowing Joe has enriched my life. I will miss him. John (Jack) T. Tighe III, BSPharm, MBA, is Founder, TMG Health, Inc., and currently serves as Chair of the Board of Directors of the ASHP Foundation. He was ASHP Executive Resident in 1978–79. Teresa A. Miller I was nervous as hell. I knew that ASHP accepted only one person into its Executive Residency program each year, and today was my interview day with the Executive Vice President, Joseph A. Oddis! Rather than have me fly all the way to Washington, D.C., from California, ASHP had graciously agreed to let me interview in Las Vegas, the site of that year’s Midyear Clinical Meeting. When I first walked into the room, I saw Dr. Oddis seated behind a single, unadorned metal desk, holding what I would come to know as his trademark cigar and outfitted in a perfectly fitting suit and attractive tie. The room was on the second floor of the Las Vegas Convention Center and had a window that looked out over the sprawling exhibit hall floor. He immediately stood up and greeted me warmly, putting me at ease. As the interview progressed, I could tell he was a kind, gentle, unassuming man, and that we had many values in common. Toward the end of the interview, after I had described my somewhat coincidental arrival at pharmacy for my career, he posed the classic interview question I dreaded most: “Where do you see yourself in 5 years?” I stumbled a bit and then responded that while there were many possibilities, I wasn’t sure where life would lead me. To my surprise, he nodded with understanding and shared that he felt that life was a “series of coincidences,” and that “whenever one door shuts, another usually opens.” With those simple words, he set my mind at ease and made it okay for me to not have my future career all planned out. That affirmation was the first of many life lessons I would learn from this down-to-earth, visionary man. During my tenure as ASHP’s Executive Resident and later as an ASHP staff member, I was fortunate to be able to observe and work with Dr. Oddis and the rest of the ASHP staff in all aspects of association management. He was never one to look for the spotlight, and he always directed traffic or provided input on policy from behind the scenes, making sure his volunteer leaders had all the tools they needed to make informed decisions and move the profession forward. His leadership acumen, combined with his well-coiffed silver hair and perfect gentlemanly demeanor, led some to refer to him as the “Silver Fox.” I am grateful for his vision of a cadre of Executive Residents trained in healthcare association management who could work in a variety of organizational settings. I did my best to emulate his example of “servant leadership” throughout my career as I moved on to work for the California Pharmacists Association for 6 years and then as CEO of the California Society of Health-System Pharmacists for 14 years, finally working in pharmacy policy within the State of California’s Medicaid program for 16 years. I miss you, Dr. Oddis. You are no longer physically with us, but your legacy lives on, and your memory will live in our hearts forever. Teresa A. Miller, PharmD, was ASHP Executive Resident in 1980–81; she is now retired and lives in California. William M. Ellis When I think about the legacy of Joseph A. Oddis, my thoughts go immediately to my time with him as the ASHP Executive Resident. The opportunity to learn from Dr. Oddis and other ASHP staff and volunteer leaders had a tremendous impact on my career and shaped my approach to life and work. At its inception in 1968, the ASHP Executive Residency (now Executive Fellowship) was a novel program well ahead of its time. Back then, there was little if any interest in the concept of pharmacy residencies outside of hospital pharmacy practice and certainly not for a nontraditional career path such as association management. Dr. Oddis, along with Dr. Warren E. McConnell and Dr. Mary Jo Reilly, helped create and lead this program, the first of its kind in pharmacy. There are many leaders today in pharmacy and other fields who are graduates of the ASHP Executive Residency. In my own case, right after the residency I became the Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Society of Hospital Pharmacists and served in that position for 11 years. Dr. Oddis understood the valuable role of association executives in advancing pharmacy, and he saw the Executive Residency as a way to create a cadre of pharmacists who had formal preparation for this role. His vision was recognized outside of pharmacy when the American Society of Association Executives featured a cover story in its magazine in the mid-1980s highlighting the program as advancing the discipline of association management. The cover photo featured Dr. Oddis and the 1987–88 ASHP Executive Resident, Susan Zetzel. Dr. Oddis was a wonderful role model. Always a gentleman, he was poised, polished, and professional. Seeing how he conducted himself left a tremendous impression on me, especially as a person still in the formative stages of my life and career. He cared about people on a personal level. I recall him often showing authentic interest in how I was doing. Dr. Oddis was a great mentor and teacher because he did not force his thinking on you but would foster the development of your own thought processes. He was always focused on the work at hand, including at his after-5 sessions, when he would move to a conference room where anyone from staff could interact with him. There was much to be learned in observing those interactions. As the day turned into evening, he might invite the executive resident to get a “bite to eat.” Over those meals, he would discuss the pharmacy issues of the day, offer his perspective, which was really his thought process, and allow you to articulate your ideas. He wanted to impart knowledge during these “seminars,” as he called them, but he also wanted to make sure that someone living on a resident’s stipend had enough to eat. He fed not only our stomachs but our minds as well. A leadership attribute of Dr. Oddis that I especially admired was his listening ability. He never claimed to have all the answers, but he knew that the solutions to problems could be found if you had an open mind and listened. A leadership attribute of Dr. Oddis that I especially admired was his listening ability. He never claimed to have all the answers, but he knew that the solutions to problems could be found if you had an open mind and listened. His ability to listen and observe what was going on around him helped fuel his vision and creativity. Many facets of health-system pharmacy that are taken for granted today, such as the Midyear Clinical Meeting, accredited residencies, and AHFS Drug Information, were nurtured and shaped from their infancy by Dr. Oddis. While Joseph A. Oddis will be missed, his impact continues through the many lives he touched as a warm, compassionate, and creative pharmacy association leader. William M. Ellis, BSPharm, MS, served as ASHP Executive Resident in 1985–86 and is currently Executive Director of the Board of Pharmacy Specialties. Jill A. Sellers I met Joseph Oddis when I was a pharmacy student working as “temporary staff” for the Midyear Clinical Meeting, yet I did not get to know him well until I was serving as a national officer for the American Pharmaceutical Association Academy of Students of Pharmacy (APhA-ASP). The APhA-ASP officers visited ASHP and spent time with Dr. Oddis. He told us the story of how ASHP came to be. I admired his storytelling ability, and I was inspired by his passion for pharmacy. During that meeting I decided to apply for the ASHP Executive Residency and learn more about our profession from those who were actively expanding pharmacy’s role in the United States and abroad. Dr. Oddis made me feel as if I already belonged there. Dr. Oddis was always considerate and respectful of others without compromising his own beliefs and values. He had a way of acknowledging your contributions and listening intently to what you had to say even if he didn’t agree. Dr. Oddis taught me how to gather intelligence by asking polite yet pertinent questions, and that there is always something to be learned from a situation, experience, or business meeting, so pay attention. He had a methodical thought process that kept him from overreacting or underreacting. His ability to respond appropriately regardless of the situation became a quality I admired but could never quite emulate. On a lighter note, I admired Dr. Oddis’s ability to dine for three hours and make it look as though he was eating—while we were eating, he was listening. Thinking about that makes me smile. Dr. Oddis conducted after-5 sessions in his conference room daily, and anyone could attend to discuss whatever was on their mind while enjoying a beverage and a snack. It was there that I learned the most about Dr. Oddis’s leadership style, the history of pharmacy, and his love for his family. Dr. Oddis was so proud of his children, Joe and Marie, and their spouses and children. He made me want to work hard to make my parents proud. He would tell us heartwarming stories about when he met Jeanne, his wife, when the kids were born, and other family tales. He also took the time to get to know his staff and their loved ones and would ask about them regularly. Some of my favorite photos are of Dr. Oddis holding and laughing with my daughters when they were babies. Precious memories. Dr. Oddis was always considerate and respectful of others without compromising his own beliefs and values. He had a way of acknowledging your contributions and listening intently to what you had to say even if he didn’t agree. In 2002, when I was on the AJHP staff, I wrote an editorial on Generation X, and while my similar-aged peers were congratulating my prose, Dr. Oddis found it “interesting” and said “perhaps we can discuss it soon” while looking at me with subtly raised eyebrows. He did not agree with all I had written yet acknowledged the differences among generations. Once again, he found something positive to say without agreeing with all my views and without being disagreeable. For him, the art of disagreeing without being disagreeable was an innate quality. My life, personally and professionally, is better for having known Joseph Oddis. I am blessed to have called him mentor, colleague, and friend. Thank you, Dr. Oddis, for patiently teaching me and pouring yourself into my pharmacy career. Jill A. Sellers, BSPharm, PharmD, is Chief Executive Officer, Sellers Communications. She was ASHP Executive Resident in 1993–94 and later served on the ASHP staff in several capacities. REPRISE Another Chapter in ASHP’s History Joseph Oddis introduced himself to ASHP members in this AJHP column (October 1960), discussing his appointment to the dual role of Executive Secretary of ASHP and Director of the Division of Hospital Pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical Association. In 1961, ASHP and APhA negotiated the phase-out of the Division, and Oddis became the full-time Executive Secretary of ASHP. At the time, ASHP had 3,289 members. ASHP was officially affiliated with APhA, an arrangement that required active members of ASHP to also be members of APhA. As the Secretary Sees It Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. As the secretary sees it. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1960; 17:652–3. President Latiolais has kindly relinquished the president’s page for this issue of the journal in order that I might personally address you. I welcome this opportunity to greet you. I welcome this opportunity to express my gratitude on your vote of confidence in selecting me as your Executive Secretary and to assure you that I will endeavor to promote the objectives of the Society by implementing its programs to the best of my ability. Further, I welcome this opportunity to thank you for making it possible for me to serve hospital pharmacy specifically and pharmacy as a whole in this official capacity. Finally, I welcome this opportunity to extend an invitation to you to assist me in fulfilling the obligations and responsibilities associated with the office of the Executive Secretary. Over the last several years, I have had the good fortune of meeting many of you at hospital pharmacy institutes at state and national pharmacy and hospital association gatherings, and at the annual meeting of the Society. There are others whom I have met only through correspondence. Still, there are many of you whom I have not met and, in due course, hope to meet. Meanwhile, President Latiolais has generously afforded me the opportunity of officially greeting you in this column. Recalling the mystery that surrounded each new professor who entered the classroom at the beginning of a school year, I am going to relate a little of my background, to describe for you the events leading to the action taken by the Society and the A.Ph.A. in creating the position which I now hold and to share with you some random thoughts regarding hospital pharmacy in general. It was my privilege to attend the Duquesne University School of Pharmacy and my distinct honor to be a student of the late Dean Hugh C. Muldoon. I was attracted to hospital pharmacy almost immediately and received formal training under Sister M. Gonzales of Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Following several positions with Sister, both as a member of her staff and as her assistant, I assumed the position of chief pharmacist at the Western Pennsylvania Hospital, also in Pittsburgh. In 1956, I was invited to join the staff of the American Hospital Association as a staff representative in pharmacy of the Council on Professional Practice. The four years with the AHA provided a wonderful opportunity to meet with hospital administrators and state and metropolitan hospital association officials and to discuss with them the practice of pharmacy in hospitals. During these years, it was my good fortune to conduct the pharmacy institutes of the AHA held in cooperation with ASHP and A.Ph.A. It was also my good fortune to serve as Secretary of the Joint Committee of the AHA and ASHP. The Joint Committee serves as an excellent tool to achieve better understanding between hospital pharmacists and administrators. Some of the activities and worthwhile efforts of the committee were described by President Latiolais in this column several months ago. It was at this time that the AHA inaugurated the Pharmacy Service Department which appears monthly in the first of the monthly issue of Hospitals, Journal of the American Hospital Association, and which I recommend to you. In early 1960, I was invited to accept the position of Director, Division of Hospital Pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical Association, following the resignation of Mr. Paul F. Parker, who served in this capacity since 1956 and with whom I had the pleasure of working rather closely during my time at the AHA. At the same time, I was named assistant secretary of the ASHP. In August of this year, Mrs. Gloria Francke officially announced her retirement after eleven years of devoted service to the Society and the profession, service given wholeheartedly and without recompense except for the joy and satisfaction she derived from knowing that she was serving the profession. To fill the vacancy created by Mrs. Francke’s retirement, the House of Delegates honored me by electing me to the position of Executive Secretary. The series of events may be simply summarized by stating the end product—that a dual position has been created whereby a single person will serve as Executive Secretary of the ASHP and Director of the Division of Hospital Pharmacy of the A.Ph.A. I have been honored by being selected for this position. The official offices of the ASHP are located in the American Institute of Pharmacy, headquarters of the A.Ph.A., Washington, D.C. I feel reassured that each of you will continue to play your role, individually and collectively, and I warmly and sincerely extend to you an invitation to join me in writing still another chapter in the Society’s history. Briefly, this gives you a bird’s eye view of past activities and the events that transpired leading to the agreement between the A.Ph.A. and ASHP to create a dual position, mutually beneficial to both organizations yet sustaining the autonomy and individuality of the respective positions. Having taken this action, the Society has written another chapter of its exciting history. How successful will be this new venture is difficult to ascertain at this time. There is every reason to believe that the Society will be as successful in this new program as it has been in such others as the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, the American Hospital Formulary Service, A.Ph.A. affiliation, the Audit of Pharmaceutical Services in Hospitals, joint and liaison committee activities, institutes and many others. The reasons for these past achievements are quite obvious. There exists within each member of the Society a compelling, enthusiastic spirit of cooperation and a self-sacrificing attitude that penetrates all obstacles or barriers to success. It was the knowledge that this philosophy prevailed that led me to accept the position offered. It was the knowledge that once the decision had been made to create the dual position, the entire Society would respond without hesitation to provide support, assistance and guidance as it has done so often in the past. The Society has been unusually blessed over the years with competent and devoted leaders. Likewise, it has once again been blessed in having President Latiolais, Vice President Solyom and Treasurer Sister Berenice. The majority of you have also demonstrated competence and devotion by accepting committee appointments which are always time consuming, exhausting and, in some instances, unrewarding. Some have not had the opportunity of serving the Society nationally but have, nevertheless, participated actively in one of the fifty-four affiliated chapters. It would be my hope that more and more of the members in time will have an opportunity to serve the Society at the national level. In reviewing the questionnaire cards mailed to all members in July of this year in order to determine their interest in the work of the Society’s committees, it was edifying to note that the immediate response to our request and the overwhelming return of the cards demonstrated without a doubt that the work must be done without complaint or hesitation. I have already expressed my personal feelings regarding Mrs. Francke and Mr. Parker on other occasions. I again wish to praise them for their past achievements. In so doing, I wish to assure them and you that I will strive to carry out the duties of my office to the extent that the abilities with which I have been endowed will permit. At the same time, I feel reassured that each of you will continue to play your role, individually and collectively, and I warmly and sincerely extend to you an invitation to join me in writing still another chapter in the Society’s history. For about a quarter of a century I have had the pleasure of saying, “I knew him when.” One of the wonderful associations that I have had during my career was working with you at the AHA. I have taken personal pride in your success. Frank S. Groner, President Emeritus, American Hospital Association. REMEMBRANCES: ASHP Staff Colleagues William M. Heller I “need to consolidate my staff,” the young upstart (two years younger than I) said as he sat across my chief pharmacist desk at the University of Arkansas Hospital Pharmacy. That meant that he, Joe Oddis, the new full-time executive of ASHP, wanted George Provost to leave my staff and move to ASHP, then located at the headquarters building of the American Pharmaceutical Association in Washington. Before there was Oddis, there was Gloria Niemeyer Francke serving in the volunteer position of ASHP Secretary, Paul Parker staffing the hospital pharmacy desk at APhA, and Don Francke editing the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy. Francke owned the typeset version of the University of Michigan Hospital Formulary. That became the basis of the American Hospital Formulary Service, which I was asked to volunteer to edit. But as soon as AHFS was on the market it required a full-time editor, so ASHP provided the stipend for me to hire George from my pharmacy staff as that person. And the University of Arkansas hospital gave us a room down the hallway from the pharmacy as an office for George. So we were well established in Arkansas as far as AHFS was concerned. But “I need to consolidate my staff.” How could I disagree with that? Simple good management when there were only two of them on the ASHP payroll. George Provost served ASHP well as the second person on the Oddis staff. Years later, Joe even hired me. Well, sometimes even the best managers slip up. William M. Heller, BSPharm, MS, PhD, wrote these remarks on his 95th birthday. He served as Director of the ASHP Department of Scientific Affairs and Editor of AHFS, 1966–68, and as Executive Director of the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, 1968–90. Mary Jo Reilly When I first started working at Mercy Hospital in 1959, I didn’t know Joe Oddis, but I soon learned of him thanks to the student nurses’ grapevine. I was introduced to the main character in an oft repeated story. Joe was on a double date and the car they were riding in broke down. Without hesitation, Joe said, “Someone open the lid and jiggle something.” Now, even Sister Gonzales knew that it wasn’t called a “lid”; it was the hood. But she was proud of him because he had delegated the task. Joe was already a delegator. As time went by, he became a better one. Joe had an uncanny ability to pick just the right person for each assignment. He could uncover hidden abilities in people, boost their confidence, and stretch their capabilities. As he honed this and many other management skills, he applied them all in building the preeminent professional organization in the world. Among his most recognized traits were his fairness and honesty; he was a gentleman with a grace and dignity about him. He was diplomatic, courteous, kind, and understanding. He was always the consummate professional, and I never saw him lose his temper or raise his voice in anger. He never seemed rushed. He was a caring mentor, whether for a staff member, a resident, or Board members. Despite his formal appearance—Windsor knotted tie and widespread collar—you could sometimes catch a glimpse of cat hair on the trousers of his dark suit. He was in no way standoffish or stiff. Joe advocated for an open-door workplace environment; “management by walking around” we called it. He learned much of what he needed to know by passing or stopping in his colleagues’ offices. An excellent listener, he was always open to receiving input on a proposal or idea no matter what the hour. He could be a persistent and decisive advocate for anything on his agenda. He admired people who thought and acted just a little bit out of the box, and he encouraged other people’s input and ideas. Joe was devoted to his wonderful family and loyal to his friends and associates in the ASHP family. He was a man of deep religious beliefs, and he lived a highly principled life. He often stopped at St. Jane Frances de Chantal Church for Mass or just a contemplative moment on his way to work. At the center, he was, at heart, a people person. Joe just loved people, any and all kinds of people. He took an interest in everyone. On an airplane once, he struck up a conversation with three young men from Nigeria who were traveling to Washington on a cultural exchange. He ended up being responsible for finding them lodging and refining the details about their destination. He encouraged them to call him whenever they had a problem during their stay. And they had many! He was a good communicator, whether by word or action. His twinkly blue eyes and wide smile spoke louder than words. Joe could articulate a concept and get others to jump onboard. He had a passion for the profession, and his vision of practice was years ahead of its time. The profession may not yet have caught up with that vision. Joe wasn’t known for his sophisticated palate. But dinners with Joe, whether business or social, were legendary. He absolutely loved open conversations with colleagues or friends over an abundant repast. He usually ended up sharing what was on his plate—but rarely his dessert. Joe always knew good things come to thosewho wait. To paraphrase an old Johnny Mathis song, “It’s not just for what you are yourself that we love you as we do, but for what we are when we are with you.” Joe built a positive, nurturing culture of success. He made us better professionals, better and more thoughtful decision makers, better teammates, and even better people. Thanks Joe. Mary Jo Reilly, BSPharm, MS, DSc (Hon), joined the ASHP staff in 1964 as Assistant Editor, American Hospital Formulary Service, and retired from ASHP in 1997 as Chief Operating Officer. Marla Davis It was 1976 and I was working at the National Institutes of Health along with a part-time job in the emergency department at Suburban Hospital. I knew the Oddis family from the Bethesda Country Club, where I, too, was a member. One evening at the hospital, Joe’s wife, Jeanne, who was a nurse there, told me that Joe’s assistant had suddenly passed away, and she asked if I would be interested in the job. After some prodding, I submitted my application to Joe. I didn’t hear from Joe for several months. Then one day he called and asked me to come in for an interview. I met with him at lunchtime. Later that day he called and offered me the job. Since I had to give notice at my current jobs, he asked me to meet with him at 5 p.m. on several days so he could acquaint me with the association. I remembered only two names from those visits—Gloria Niemeyer Francke and Robert Fischelis—but I still recall his joy in talking about ASHP and his pride in being a pharmacist. When you work for the CEO of a large organization, no two days are the same. Phone calls, travel arrangements, guests, meetings, minutes, etc. Joe was a wonderful mentor. I learned that a call from overseas did not require yelling on my part so the other party could understand me—normal volume would suffice; that all nuns were not pharmacists—some came by just to sell books and collect money; that a call from Sister Gonzales would be taken by Joe (she was a pharmacist who became president of ASHP and was a delight to work with). On Fridays we assembled a binder of “green sheets,” a compilation of correspondence written by staff during the week. (In earlier days, the compilation consisted of carbon copies on green paper; now they were Xerox copies on plain paper, but we kept calling them the “green sheets.”) Joe would read the correspondence over the weekend before the compilation was circulated to the rest of the staff. He would write comments on some letters, sometimes asking for the incoming communication. I enjoyed looking through Joe’s notes on Monday morning to see how deep his pen indentations were on a particular piece of correspondence to gauge his level of concern. He used a yellow paper tablet for notes and always used a Bic medium-point pen. He loved to write notes to staff, again sometimes with deep pen impressions. Staff knew if they received such a note, they should prepare an answer quickly. But the back of the yellow pad was the gem. This is where he noted reminders and tasks to be pursued and crossed off when completed. He would transfer leftover items from the back of one yellow pad to the back of another. Joe especially enjoyed the “all staff” gatherings whether they were at the office or at a holiday celebration at the Bethesda Country Club. He had a smile for everyone and tried to talk with each staff member. You could see the deep respect that staff had for him. The year that ASHP was planning to become smoke-free, Joe called me into his office one day and asked if I noticed anything different. I said no. He was perturbed that he had to tell me that he (who had been a cigar and pipe smoker) hadn’t smoked anything for three weeks. (I didn’t tell him the smell lingered on.) He said that if he couldn’t comply, he couldn’t ask staff to do it. The next day, the smoke-free memo came out. When we were moving to 7272 Wisconsin Avenue, we had a “packing party.” One of our staff members, Domini Alteri, bought an inexpensive bottle of champagne so we could decommission 4630 Montgomery Avenue. She hung the bottle from the fire escape out back with the idea that Joe would send the bottle flying into the side of the building and break it. It took four tries for the decommissioning to be consummated. We all laughed and then cheered. It showed what a good sport he was. During his retirement, I was always delighted to get a call from him asking me to lunch. We always met at Bethesda Country Club for a meal. Joe did not just eat a meal, he dined. So I was prepared to spend at least 2 hours with him. Those meals together are some of my fondest memories. Joe was and will always be the finest gentleman I’ve ever known. I miss him. Marla Davis was appointed Executive Assistant to the ASHP Executive Director in 1976 and retired as Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President in 2007. David D. Almquist The first time I met Joseph Oddis was in the mid-1960s at a reception during the Midyear Clinical Meeting in Washington, D.C. He made me feel welcome and comfortable, as if we had been friends for many years. In the fall of 1970, I traveled to Bethesda, Maryland, for a job interview at ASHP. I met with Joe in his office, and he invited me to have dinner with him at Bethesda Country Club. I was not aware we were going to join his family there, but that was Joe; I was treated as if I were a member of his family. I knew from this dining experience and the interview that ASHP was the place I wanted to work. Joe preferred his staff to come to him with solutions to problems rather than with just the problems. This was how he built a high-performance staff. We were not really his employees; we were members of the ASHP family. In January 1971, I joined the ASHP staff as Director of the Bureau of Administrative and Membership Services. I had been a director of pharmacy at a large Midwestern hospital—working for an association was not within my area of expertise. I had been involved with small state societies and was partly responsible for forming one for the state of Kansas, which represented hospital pharmacists in only a small geographical area, basically the city of Wichita. In one of our first discussions, Joe told me that, in addition to my administrative duties, he would like me to coordinate the growth and development of an affiliated state chapter system. His goal was to strengthen state affiliates, thus improving efforts at the state level to advance hospital pharmacy. This directive launched me on a mission that I pursued for the next 20 years. In 1971, ASHP had nearly 80 affiliated chapters, most of them small societies that did not represent a complete state. To begin, I traveled to a few state meetings, met the members, identified leaders, and took note of how their organizations were structured. After attending a number of these meetings over a year, I formulated several ideas for approaching the development of a state chapter program. Joe agreed I should move forward with my plan. He let me do it on my own, with a few gentle nudges here and there but never with a negative comment. Joe preferred his staff to come to him with solutions to problems rather than with just the problems. This was how he built a high-performance staff. We were not really his employees; we were members of the ASHP family. My next step was with the Texas Society, an organization that represented hospital pharmacists in the Houston-Galveston area. Other ASHP chapters in the state represented other metropolitan or geographic areas. Leaders of the Texas Society agreed to work with me in developing a new statewide organization. I facilitated their discussions, which led to a plan for creating a new statewide organization with well-defined goals, trained leadership, and smaller affiliates across the state. The Texas program became a model for other states. About halfway through the effort, Joe commented to me, “I don’t know exactly what you are doing out there that makes this work so well, but just keep on doing it.” Over the next few years, almost all of the states had a statewide ASHP affiliate with (when appropriate) regional chapters. Joe had a strong calming influence on me. When problems arose with the affiliates program, he would quiz me about how the difficulties arose, the causative factors, andalternative approaches I might try. He was a very patient coach and mentor. Later my work included liaison with other organizations, some of them outside the United States. It was always a treat to watch Joe work within an international group, which brought to the fore his polish and diplomacy. I learned by watching him lead and guide committees and boards of organizations to reach conclusions that some had thought were unachievable. On the rare occasion when his approach to an issue did not work, he always had a plan for tackling the matter from a different angle to reach the desired outcome. He was a master of reaching consensus and compromise within a group. There was so much he taught me, so many learning experiences he shared with me about pharmacy and life in general. It is difficult to believe he is gone. The world will miss Joseph Oddis, a wonderful man, father, grandfather, leader, and friend. David D. Almquist, BSPharm, MS, served on the ASHP staff from 1971 to 1998. He is retired and lives in Ohio. Charles M. King, Jr. My first opportunity to meet Joseph Oddis was in 1958, during my two-year academic pharmacy residency at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Jefferson Medical College Hospital. Philadelphia was the site of an institute on hospital pharmacy, one in the long series of such programs organized by ASHP, the American Pharmacists Association, and the American Hospital Association. The pharmacy director at Jefferson, Herbert Flack, arranged for his residents to attend, which would give us an opportunity to meet Joe Oddis, who at the time was on the staff of AHA. Herb and other mentors had talked about Joe in glowing terms, which made me a bit nervous about the prospect of meeting him. When finally introduced to Joe, I was pleasantly surprised to be warmly and graciously greeted by this unassuming gentleman. He welcomed us to the institute and made us feel comfortable. This meeting of Joe Oddis made a lasting impression on all of us residents as we continued to process what we had learned at the institute in the following months. He listened to everyone’s concerns and gently guided his staff to address the issues or problems that had been brought to his attention. He was always considerate in making suggestions to staff members and rarely told them how to do things. At various educational programs and committee meetings over the years, I had an opportunity to stay in touch with Joe. When the position of Executive Vice President of the ASHP Research and Education Foundation became open, Joe encouraged me to consider the opportunity. Arrangements were made for my formal interview at ASHP headquarters. I arrived the evening before while the Washington, D.C., area was experiencing one of its famous paralyzing snowstorms. Although the city was shut down the next day, I walked from my hotel to the ASHP offices, arriving just as a woman was leaving the building, and she told me that nobody was coming to work. I went up to Joe’s office anyway and there he was working at his desk. The plan had been to interview with Joe and other members of the executive staff, but only Joe and I were there. We took our time and had a long discussion. Joe walked me around the offices and told me about what each staff member was working on. He knew everything about the organization in detail. We had dinner together that evening and arranged to meet again the next day along with members of the executive staff. The snowstorm-induced protractedinterview allowed Joe and me to get to know each other quite well. I was hired for the job and served in that position for13 years. Having known Joe for many years, certain characteristics of him stand out in my mind. At major ASHP meetings, I would often see him near the entrance of the convention center talking with members and collecting information. He listened to everyone’s concerns and gently guided his staff to address the issues or problems that had been brought to his attention. He was always considerate in making suggestions to staff members and rarely told them how to do things. He was a questioner, listener, and talker, but most of all he empowered his staff colleagues to be creative in their problem solving. Joe was very helpful in my work with the ASHP Foundation. He identified opportunities for potential programs and individuals who might be donors or who were prospects for appointment to the Foundation governing board. He was very well connected in the pharmacy and healthcare organizational world, which allowed him to spread the word widely about the work of hospital pharmacists and the programs of ASHP and the ASHP Foundation. When Joe retired in 1997, I was pleased to have an opportunity to work with many others in establishing an ASHP Foundation endowment in his honor. This endowment generates income to fund programs that advance the patient-care role of pharmacists, a fitting tribute to a man who was deeply devoted to strengthening his chosen profession. Charles M. King, Jr., BSPharm, MS, served as Executive Vice President of the ASHP Research and Education Foundation, 1987–2000. He expresses gratitude to his daughter-in-law, Dawn Wilson-King, PhD, for assistance in writing this tribute to Dr. Oddis. Stephen J. Allen The most influential person in my life was my father. I saw my dad infrequently because he worked two jobs to support our family, but when I was with him I cherished every moment. He was a great listener, always tuned into my needs. He talked openly about his life experiences and the lessons from them. He found humor in the moment and showed me unwavering support. My dad passed away when I was 30. When I was 22 years old, I was fortunate to meet Joseph Oddis, who would become a father-figure to me in pharmacy because he shared his love and support in much the same way as my father did as I was growing up. I was blessed to have Joe in my life for 45 years and fortunate to get to know him even better in the days before he passed. My close connection with Joe Oddis came about through good fortune, geographic proximity, similar family and faith-based upbringing, and shared commitment to pharmacy and ASHP. In my first meeting of Joe in a residency visit to ASHP, I was impressed by his accessibility and his sincere gratitude for members who volunteered for ASHP assignments. Later, in my first job at Children’s Hospital in Washington, D.C., my boss, William Hotaling, served as Chairman of the ASHP House of Delegates. He was sometimes invited to Joe’s Friday after-5 informal gathering with the ASHP staff, and I was allowed to tag along. It was there that I first saw the similarities between my father and Joe Oddis. I saw how Joe valued every staff member in the room and how much he cared for them and their families. I had opportunity to speak with Joe several times a year through my involvement in ASHP and gained his trust and learned from observing his personal and professional behavior. Three experiences with him were particularly significant. There was never an agenda for our meetings, just an exploration of the opportunities and challenges facing the Foundation. Almost always, his help came from the questions he asked me rather than any advice he might sparingly offer. In 1995, I was caught in a reduction in force at the health system where I had been a pharmacy executive for 17 years. I called Joe and asked if I could meet with him to help me assess my professional options. He was immediately responsive and invited me to see him the next day. As we talked over a leisurely dinner at a local restaurant, I learned that he, too, was facing a major transition with the impending announcement of his retirement as ASHP CEO in 1997. The evening was helpful and comforting to me, and I believe that Joe found it personally beneficial as well. While we were a generation apart, I felt as natural talking with him as I did with my father. We were two proud professionals and men of faith dealing with uncertainty. While our situations were different, we departed that evening content to rely on our basic values. We trusted God’s plan for each of us, knew that the utmost professional behavior was required of us now more than ever, and that there would be good things to come for both of us. Just a few years later we laughed about how our professional lives crossed again as I became the ASHP Foundation CEO and interacted frequently with Joe as ASHP CEO Emeritus and ASHP Foundation President Emeritus. The second influential experience was the impromptu discussions I had with Joe during my tenure at the ASHP Foundation. We spoke often. There was never an agenda for our meetings, just an exploration of the opportunities and challenges facing the Foundation. Almost always, his help came from the questions he asked me rather than any advice he might sparingly offer. The most influential advice Joe offered came at an ASHP Foundation Board meeting at the height of the 2007–08 global financial crisis. The Foundation Board was considering a staff reduction, and Joe offered a suggestion that no one had considered. He recalled that the Foundation had received a large restricted gift that had just passed its restricted-use limitation, and he spoke passionately about how the donor, Kenneth Lusher, would be thrilled if his gift might serve as a bridge for the Foundation to weather this storm. Joe’s advice was readily adopted by the Board, thereby preventing a reduction in the Foundation’s capacity to maintain its educational and research support of health-system pharmacy. Lastly, and most gratifying and fun, were my periodic lunches with Joe during his retirement years. These were two- to three-hour lunches, the norm for Joe. Over the years, our conversations shifted from business to discussions of family and our mutual friends in the profession. I loved hearing about the accomplishments of his children, Marie and Joe, and the evolving lives and careers of his grandchildren. We laughed about my brief tenure as director of pharmacy at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda in the 1990s, when Joe’s wife Jeanne worked as an emergency department nurse and gave him reports on how I was doing in leading the pharmacy. It was delightful to watch the staff and members of the Bethesda Country Club interact with Joe. He was one of the most cherished individuals at the club, having been a member for more than 50 years. The camaraderie between Joe and others felt just like the first time that I met Joe at a Friday afternoon informal ASHP staff gathering. Everyone was important to him and they were so touched by his ways. Joseph A. Oddis was the most respected pharmacy leader in the eyes of many in the profession. This gentleman was a friend to many in all walks of life. And he was the person I tried to emulate over my entire career. Stephen J. Allen, BSPharm, MS, FASHP, was Chief Executive Officer of the ASHP Foundation, 1999–2018. We thank you for all you have given to the profession. Your leadership cannot be matched. But, most of all, we remember your sense of propriety—that is doing everything in the right way at the right time—sort of quietly and always acting as if you enjoyed it even if you did not! Gloria Francke, former Executive Secretary of ASHP REPRISE Grave Shortcomings in Hospital Pharmacy In his remarkable 1966 speech at the Centennial Anniversary Program of Howard University, Joseph Oddis painted a vivid picture of the professional challenges facing pharmacy in hospitals. At the time, about 9,500 pharmacists (8% of the total) practiced in hospitals, a far-too-small number to meet the basic level of service provided by community pharmacists (i.e., interpretation of the physician’s order and preparation of the dosage form). One can almost hear a shaming tone (directed to his own profession) in Oddis’s declamation on the extent to which nurses were performing fundamental pharmacy activities in hospitals. The speech, which was prepared with the assistance of William Heller, alluded to the leading edge of practice that would become standard parts of hospital pharmacy over the next decade (e.g., “bedside practice,” drug information services, computerization, expanded use of technicians, centralized i.v. admixture services). Facing Up to Hospital Pharmacy Manpower Needs Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. Facing up to hospital pharmacy manpower needs. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1967; 24:300–5. IN RECENT YEARS WE HAVE OFTEN HEARD IT SAID that the practice of pharmacy in hospitals was becoming so different from community practice that hospital pharmacy was becoming a specialty area of pharmacy practice. I suggest to you that this thinking is already out of date, that even now we have entered a period when the practice of pharmacy in hospitals is dividing into subspecialties. I shall list some of these subspecialty areas of practice for pharmacists in hospitals: Manufacturing, of both sterile and non-sterile products Analytical quality control Intra-hospital drug distribution, including processing of medication orders via automatic data processing equipment The “bedside practice of pharmacy” Inservice education of pharmacists and training programs for technician-helpers Drug information services to physicians, nurses, pharmacists, paramedical personnel and, not least, to patients And finally, administration of a hospital’s professional service department performing all these functions results in a need for pharmacists specializing in management The reason we are faced with this specialization is that there is so much to know in order to practice effectively that no one person can be expected to be expert in all areas. The reason we have not become involved in this specialization long ago is that most pharmaceutical functions in hospitals have been performed by nurses. In the community pharmacy the interpretation of a prescription order and the preparation of a label are standard functions of the pharmacist. It would be unthinkable for the pharmacist there to depend on a clerk to tell him what medication to get in order to dispense the prescription, or for a typist to make the label without his checking it, even if the clerk-typist were a nurse. Yet this is the procedure used in today’s hospitals. The nurse interprets the physician’s drug orders and prepares the written directions which will govern the administration of each dose until that medication order is cancelled. Hospital Pharmacy Manpower Needs Let us explore the extent of the “pharmacy” manpower needs of hospitals. Admittedly, some of the key information needed (average number of changes in drug orders per day, average number of doses per day, average number of compounded doses per day) is only approximate, but we shall see that even a 100 percent overestimate would still leave us with a workload far beyond the present number of pharmacists practicing in hospitals. In 1965, the American Hospital Association listed 7,123 hospitals in the United States. Suppose each of those hospitals had only one pharmacist on duty at all times so that he would be available to interpret medication orders and prepare doses of drugs for administration. To fill just one pharmacist position around the clock requires a staff of five pharmacists if each works an eight-hour day, takes a three-week vacation, six holidays a year, spends 14 days a year traveling to and attending professional meetings and conferences, and is sick one week per year. Staffing our nation’s hospitals around the clock with just one pharmacist on duty at a time would require 35,615 pharmacists! Since we have in the entire country about 120,000 pharmacists who are licensed to practice and since we estimate that only 9,000–10,000 now practice in hospitals, one can readily grasp the significance of this projection. Looking at the situation in another way, in 1965, there were 1,400,000 patients in our hospitals each day. Suppose there were two changes in medication orders for each patient each day—not an unreasonable figure in a general, short-term hospital. Suppose, further, that we were going to have pharmacists on duty only for the 13-hour period between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Hospital pharmacists who have studied physicians’ ordering habits have found that about 90 percent of medication orders are written between those hours. Let us say it takes a pharmacist one minute to interpret each order and type instructions for use. Those who have been involved in interpreting physicians’ handwriting will appreciate that it often takes a minute just to read it, not to mention typing a label of instructions for use. Combining all these figures, we find that our 1,400,000 patients getting 2,800,000 orders daily, of which 2,600,000 are written between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., will need 3,333 pharmacists every minute of that 13-hour day with no time off for meals, coffee breaks, and other necessities and niceties of life. Let us consider another service expected by every patient who brings his prescription order into a community pharmacy; namely, that his medication will be selected and put into the container and labeled by a pharmacist. We do not know how many doses of medication the average hospitalized patient receives each day. We have seen studies reporting as few as six and as many as 14 doses per patient per day. Using a conservative figure of seven, our 1,400,000 patients would receive about 10,000,000 doses daily. Five minutes per prescription is considered to be fast work in a community pharmacy, and those who advocate the professional fee system are quick to point out that it takes very little less time to dispense a prescription for a dozen capsules, or even one or two capsules, than 50 capsules. But let’s assume we can do it twice as fast in the hospital and it takes only 2 1/2 minutes to prepare each of these single dose prescriptions. If our pharmacists all worked twenty minutes overtime on their eight-hour shifts, we would need 50,000 pharmacists in our hospitals every day in order to provide a service which is expected for every prescription presented to a community pharmacist. These manpower requirements can be stated so simply in terms of community practice, yet are almost unimaginable in terms of present hospital pharmacy practice. But we must remember that someone, somewhere, at all hours of the day and night, in every one of our hospitals, is performing these functions now. Someone has to prepare every dose to administer to the patient. Studies have shown that 15 to 30 percent of the time something is wrong with the administered dose. If drugs are important enough to give, it would seem they are important enough to give correctly more often than is now the case. Suppose we reserved for pharmacists only those doses that required compounding? Surely, the mixing of two drugs is a function traditionally regarded as the one demanding the greatest pharmaceutical know-how, not just in the techniques of mixing the particular products, but in understanding the active ingredients and all the buffers, stabilizers, preservatives, fillers, flavors and other adjuvants which might be in the dosage form and liable to interact with another product when mixed. Again, we don’t know how many doses require compounding but one dose every other day for a hospitalized patient seems to be a conservative figure. Therefore, our 1,400,000 hospitalized patients would receive 700,000 compounded doses daily, and if compounded doses took only twice as long as those already prefabricated, just five minutes each, it would still take 7,000 pharmacists every day. Interestingly enough, probably more than 9 out of 10 of these compounded doses would be for sterile dosage forms—not ointments, or lotions or even syrups or suspensions, but sterile injectables demanding the highest degree of clean and accurate techniques. These figures on the number of pharmacists required in hospitals to do two things regularly expected and done by pharmacists in the community—(1) interpret the prescription order and prepare the label, and (2) prepare the medication—these figures are ridiculous! They are ridiculously on the low side. Physicians do not write prescription orders so that each one arrives just after the previous order has been finished. Hospitalized patients are given drugs on schedules which batch most of them in about four big peaks during the 24-hour day. Studies of conventional pharmacy operations in Public Health Service hospitals have shown that about half of the pharmacists’ time is devoted to non-measurable activities. So perhaps we can multiply all those ridiculous figures by two and come closer to a realistic estimate of the actual staffing needed to handle the peaks and valleys of demand and the non-measurable workload. Subspecialties of Hospital Pharmacy I repeat that someone in our hospitals now is performing these pharmaceutical functions. What might happen if pharmacists did their best to assume responsibility for these two functions, prescription order interpretation and dosage form preparation? Obviously, pharmacists cannot accept these responsibilities in hospitals unless something drastic occurs. One drastic measure well on the way is the computerization of the medical record information of patients in hospitals. By judicious use of machinery and technicians, we ought to be able to devise systems which permit review of medication orders by pharmacists, even before the first dose is given. It is difficult to envision any adequate coverage, however, without devoting to it far more man-hours than pharmacists now provide to hospitals. The crucial question is: will pharmacists become involved and use the computer, or will the computer system be designed so that this function is retained on the patient care areas and performed by nurses or clerks? Or will physicians assume the responsibility of input into the computer? Other functional areas of the pharmacy are also susceptible to increased utilization of machines and trained lay persons. For optimal performance, we will need hospital pharmacists who will specialize in each such area. Let us now consider some possible subspecialties of hospital pharmacy practice. Manufacturing. The pharmaceutical manufacturers have demonstrated beyond doubt that production of drugs in a large scale operation using lay people and machinery is possible and efficient. A batch of 100 doses would be too little for even the smallest pharmaceutical manufacturer to prepare economically, but it is 100 times the batch size usually prepared by the nurse. Pharmacists would find that diluting 100 vials of potassium penicillin G, for instance, could be accomplished with $20 worth of equipment by a trained technician in less than a tenth of the time it would have taken 100 nurses to dilute the same number of vials. Furthermore, if all the hospital’s aseptic compounding is done in one area, surely the hospital could afford a sterile air hood, a far safer air than the bacteria-laden dust of patient care areas. As long as he is working at that hood, our pharmacy technician might as well continue using that $20 worth of equipment to prefill syringes with the doses most commonly needed. We can now see why hospital pharmacy would be developing the subspecialty of manufacturing pharmacy. This will be a very demanding role and the pharmacist will have many more different products to process than any manufacturing pharmacist in the pharmaceutical industry. He will have to be able to deal with every manufacturer’s products. He cannot choose the container in order to assure optimum stability; he must choose a container from which the dose can be administered. The objective of manufacturing in hospitals will not be to compete with the pharmaceutical manufacturer, but to prepare on a batch basis those doses that would otherwise have to be prepared one-at-a-time by the dispensing pharmacist—and now are usually prepared one-at-a-time by nurses. Quality Control. Another lesson we can learn from the pharmaceutical industry is the value of quality control. The industry has shown that lay persons trained to do specific jobs well, monitored by in-process controls, and with final checks by analytical control, can produce good quality products. One of the foremost advantages which should accrue to hospitalized patients when hospital manufacturing is modeled after the industry is that quality control can be instituted. It is not feasible to do much more than have a second person watch and double check when the manipulation is one-of-a-kind. The statistics for running a sterility test when only one syringe is filled haven’t been invented yet! For that matter, the prefilling of a batch of 40 syringes would do nothing but provide the 40 samples needed for a U.S.P. sterility test, with none left over for the nurse to use. So when I say we can institute quality control procedures as a check on the hospital pharmacy manufacturing operation, I am saying this with the realization that a whole new area of sampling and testing techniques must be worked out—it will not be possible to apply all the techniques that industry has been able to use for its much larger batch sizes. Thus, the rise of the subspecialty of quality control in the practice of pharmacy in hospitals. Remember again, that our quality control man must be able to handle the products of every pharmaceutical manufacturer. Rather than the 50 or 100 different drugs which may represent the entire line of a large drug manufacturer, he may have over 1000 drugs in the hospital’s formulary. Research. I believe there will be a subspecialty of hospital pharmacy devoted to research. With centralization of activities, removing them from present one-at-a-time procedures, it becomes possible and pertinent to investigate all kinds of configurations of personnel and equipment. Thus the specialty of operations research in hospital pharmacy should grow, right along with the growth of traditional pharmaceutical research. Drug Information Services. A drug information specialist can be of great help to the other areas of the hospital pharmacy. He will not only be involved in collecting information on the usage of drugs, thus helping the manufacturing and distribution specialists anticipate their needs, but he can improve efficiency by influencing the prescribing of drugs. For example, two extended release tablets daily reduce the work load of preparation and administration of doses by half compared to four conventional tablets of the same drug. Combining his knowledge of pharmacy and pharmacology with an improved knowledge of the patient’s condition (via the computerized medical record and/or by direct observation of the patient), he can be expected to play a more significant role in the individual and group education of physicians in the choice of drugs and dosage forms. We hear much about adverse drug reactions and the difficulties in getting them reported. The drug information specialists would be the persons in the hospital who would be the most interested in this area of activity. One carefully controlled study showed that 5 percent of the patients entering a general medical and surgical ward were hospitalized in part, at least, as a consequence of a reaction to a drug they were taking at home. Who would have more interest in taking the drug history of a patient than a drug information specialist? This is the “bedside practice of pharmacy.” One further thought on “bedside practice”: until our hospitals do become computerized, until pneumatic tubes and other mechanical transportation systems are built in, the only way we may be able to perform the medication order interpretation and dosage form preparation functions described earlier may be to do this work in the patient care area in very much the same way the nurse has been doing it. Teaching and Administration. We haven’t time to say anything about in-service education, but obviously it will be much more important for pharmacists to keep up to date. We will not elaborate on the chief pharmacist’s management job except to remind ourselves that it is one thing to manage in a 40-hour week, daytimes, Monday through Friday, a crew of people working with you—and it is quite a different job to work a 40-hour week yourself and manage several crews of people working at different hours of the day and on different days of the week. Our friends in nursing tell us that just knowing you have a name filling a shift on the schedule may be all you know about one of your professional workers—your schedule has not permitted you to know that person’s skills and attitudes. No school of pharmacy has yet mounted this kind of a clinical education program for pharmacy students—a program which would enable any pharmacist, at any time he chooses, to step into a specialty of pharmacy in this almost overwhelming need for pharmacy services in hospitals. I hope that our schools of pharmacy move forward quickly in clinical education for pharmacy students and that all schools recognize and utilize this opportunity to make our profession truly patient-oriented. The Challenge Alumni are probably saying to themselves that this younger generation must certainly be getting a much better education than they did if they are going to perform effectively in these specialty roles of pharmacists in hospitals. Students, especially senior students, are wondering where in the curriculum they are going to learn to perform effectively these specialty roles of pharmacists in hospitals. The sad truth is that none of us has been brought to the point where we can step with confidence and authority into these roles. If pharmacy is going to assume responsibility in hospitals for the very professional functions it claims in community pharmacies, every pharmacy student in every school will have to be advanced to the point where he has the capability to enter directly into the residency program of one of these specialties of hospital pharmacy practice. The medical student has only two years of lectures and laboratories in medical school in which to learn about all the sciences involved in medicine. His last two years of medical school are in the hospital where he learns the practice of medicine and learns to put to use knowledge acquired in the lecture hall and at the laboratory bench. After that he specializes. The pharmacy student has three years of lectures and laboratories. He concentrates only on drugs, a far narrower area than the medical student has to cover. Yet the pharmacy student misses out on that invaluable link provided the medical student: the chance to put his book-learning to work while under the supervision and continuing instruction of teachers who themselves are clinical practitioners; the chance to see in patients the drug effects he read about (and a good many he didn’t read about) in books. Schools of pharmacy must begin teaching students about drugs in real-life. The medical student is not in the hospital to learn to be a hospital physician; he is there to learn about medicine and he does it in the hospital because that’s where the action is. We don’t propose that a pharmacy student be in the hospital to learn to be a hospital pharmacist; we propose he be there to learn about drugs. Hospital pharmacy as it was practiced in the past, and as it is still mostly practiced today, has failed to involve itself in much of the pharmaceutical action taking place in the hospitals. But I trust I have been able to develop for you a picture of the action that is there, that is being carried out by others now, and that needs our involvement in order for our hospitals to do a better job of caring for their patients. This is a national situation, a national problem. No school of pharmacy has yet mounted this kind of a clinical education program for pharmacy students—a program which would enable any pharmacist, at any time he chooses, to step into a specialty of pharmacy in this almost overwhelming need for pharmacy services in hospitals. I hope that our schools of pharmacy move forward quickly in clinical education for pharmacy students and that all schools recognize and utilize this opportunity to make our profession truly patient-oriented. References Hospital statistics from the Guide Issue, Hospitals (JAHA) 40:427–436, Part 2 (Aug. 1) 1966. Statistics on medication orders and drug usage in hospitals from unpublished studies at the University of Arkansas Hospital, University of Iowa Hospital, University of Kentucky Hospital, Stuttgart (Arkansas) Memorial Hospital and Wadsworth Veterans Administration Hospital, and such published reports as: Sister M. Rebecca and Bair, J.: Ten-Month Study of the Use of Antibiotics in a 175-Bed General Hospital, Am J Hosp. Pharm. 22:502 (Sept.) 1965. Articles on electronic data processing of medication orders in hospitals include: Barker, K.: Experimental Distribution System Offers Total Drug Control, Hospitals (JAHA) 39:142 (Sept. 16) 1965. Eckel, F., and Latiolais, C.: An Effective Narcotic Control System Using Electronic Data Processing, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:519 (Sept.) 1965. Jang, R., and Barker, K.: Punch Cards, Teletype Aid Automated Drug System, Mod. Hosp. 104:124 (Apr.) 1965. Reports of medication error studies include: Barker, K., Kimbrough, W., and Heller, W.: The Medication Error Problem in Hospitals, Hosp. Formulary Management 1:29-34 (Feb.) and 1:36-42 (March) 1966. Barker, K., and Heller, W.: The Development of a Centralized Unit-Dose Dispensing System for U.A.M.C.; Part VI, The Pilot Study—Medication Errors and Drug Losses, Am J Hosp Pharm. 21: 609-625 (Dec.) 1964. Barker, K.: A Study of the Problem of Detecting Medication Errors in a Hospital, Master’s Thesis, University of Florida, 1961. Abstracted papers published (with McConnell, W.) under the titles, How to Detect Medication Errors, Mod. Hosp. 99:95 (July) 1962, The Problems of Detecting Medication Errors in Hospitals, Am J Hosp Pharm. 19:360 (Aug.) 1962. A report of a study of medication errors in a non-university hospital is in final proof-reading stages and will be available soon. The grant was given by the John A. Hartford Foundation to Drug Systems Research at the University of Arkansas, with Barker, Kimbrough and Heller as investigators. Work studies of measurable and non-measurable activities in hospital pharmacy and studies of technician-helpers have been reported: Bartscht, K., Estrella, M., and Rothenbuhler, E.: Pharmacy Staffing Methodology—A Management Tool, Am J Hosp Pharm., 22:564 (Oct.) 1965. Rothenbuhler, E., and Archambault, G.: Hospital Pharmacy Staff Needs, Am J Hosp Pharm. 19:163 (Apr.) 1962. Turnbull, R., and Bowles, G.: Current Trends in the Utilization of Hospital Pharmacy Personnel, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:596 (Nov.) 1965. Francke, D. (Editorial): Hospital Pharmacy Technician-Helpers, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:595 (Nov.) 1965. Bartscht, K., Estrella, M., and Rothenbuhler, E.: Range of Required Skills Detailed in Study of the Pharmacy Function, Hospitals (JAHA) 40:94 (Mar. 16) 1966. Sterile products compounding has been discussed: Francke, D. (Editorial): Preparation of Parenteral Admixtures—Nursing or Pharmacy Function? Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:179 (Apr.) 1965. Dunworth, R., and Kenna, R.: Preliminary Report: Incompatibility of Combinations of Medications in Intravenous Solutions, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:190 (Apr.) 1961. Sister Mary Naomi Holysko, and Ravin, R.: A Pharmacy Centralized Intravenous Additive Service, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:266 (May) 1965. McFadyen, J., Weingart, B., and Davis, A.: Pharmacy Support of a Dialysis Center, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:334 (June) 1965. Dancey, J., and Carew, D.: The Availability of Antibiotics in Combination with Other Additives in Intravenous Solutions, Am J Hosp Pharm. 23:542 (Oct.) 1966. Bair, J., and Carew, D.: Therapeutic Availability of Antibiotics in Parenteral Solutions, Bull Parenteral Drug Assoc. 19:153, 1965. Im S., and Latiolais, C.: Physico-Chemical Incompatibilities of Parenteral Admixtures—Penicillin and Tetracyclines, Am J Hosp Pharm. 23:333 (July) 1966. Meisler, J., and Skolaut, M.: Extemporaneous Sterile Compounding of Intravenous Additives, Am J Hosp Pharm. 23:557 (Oct.) 1966. Provost, G. (Editorial): Prescription Compounding by Nurses in Hospitals, Am J Hosp Pharm. 23:595 (Nov.) 1966. Summaries of papers presented at a Workshop on Parenteral Incompatibilities, conducted by the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists and sponsored by Abbott Laboratories were published in Am J Hosp Pharm. 23:596-603 (Nov.) 1966. Quality control laboratories for hospital pharmacy have been reported: Beretta, J.: Quality Control in Manufacturing and Dispensing, Hospitals (JAHA) 39:95 (Mar. 16) 1965. Chafetz, L.: Considerations in Equipping a Hospital Pharmacy Control Laboratory, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:573 (Oct.) 1965. A continuing column on Assay and Quality Control Procedures for the Hospital Pharmacy is now carried by the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy. The ASHP’s Statement on Research in Hospital Pharmacy was published: Am J Hosp Pharm. 21:537 (Nov.) 1964. with comment from Chafetz, L., (Letter to the Editor), Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:32 (Feb.) 1965. The hospital pharmacist as a drug information specialist has been reported in many articles, among them: Burkholder, D.: Developing a Drug Information Service, Hospitals (JAHA) 39:68 (Aug.) 1965. Walton, C.: The Problem of Communicating Clinical Drug Information—A Challenge and a Hope for Professional Pharmacy, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:458 (Aug.) 1965. Mahoney, R.: “Pharmatip”—Quick Drug Reference for the Nurse, Hospitals (JAHA) 40:138 (July 16) 1966. An entire issue (January, 1965) of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy was devoted to this subject. Adverse drug reactions have become a special area of concern and are discussed in many articles; a sampling: Lantos, R.: A Community-Wide Project for the Collection of Adverse Drug Reaction Reports, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:468 (Aug.) 1965. Smith, J.: A Hospital Adverse Drug Reaction Reporting Program, Hospitals (JAHA) 40:90 (Feb.) 1966. Lancaster, W.: Adverse Drug Reactions—a Review and Suggested Reporting Program, Am J Hosp Pharm. 22:524 (Sept.) 1965. REMEMBRANCES: ASHP Staff Colleagues Max D. Ray I first met Joe Oddis in 1965 while I was a resident. I attended an ASHP unit dose institute that year in Iowa City. One of my mentors—Grover Bowles—was at this program, and he introduced me to several of the leaders in hospital pharmacy who were in attendance, including one young man with jet-black hair named Joe Oddis. By the end of this conference Joe was calling me by my name. Over the next few years, whenever I attended an ASHP meeting, Joe would usually greet me and strike up a conversation. There was nothing particularly remarkable about this since ASHP was still a fairly small organization, and the Executive Secretary seemed to know most of the members. Then, in 1975, Joe invited me to interview for a position on the ASHP staff. I was offered the position and served on the staff from late 1975 through 1985. My work focused primarily on residency training as Director of Accreditation Services and Secretary to the Commission on Credentialing. As an ancillary assignment, I served as staff liaison to the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy, a fact I mention because of AACP’s growing interest during that time in experiential education. Both ASHP and AACP were directly affected by the growing interest in the PharmD degree and all the attendant issues (e.g., concerns among many pharmacists that the PharmD as pharmacy’s sole entry-level degree would create two classes of pharmacists, strong disagreements among educators on the entry-level vs. post-baccalaureate question, and a host of related matters). It became obvious to me that residency training programs (and accreditation standards) were directly affected by the increasing number of PharmD graduates, many of whom applied for residency positions. We were at a point where no single residency accreditation standard addressed the needs of both baccalaureate pharmacy graduates and PharmD graduates. My conversations with Joe during this period often pertained to the effects of the transition to the PharmD degree on hospital pharmacy practice and on residency training. It was a practice of Joe’s to make himself available to anyone on the staff, after working hours, for informal discussion of work-related or personal matters. In my experience, these discussions allowed participants to “think out loud” about topics on their mind, sometimes offering Joe an opportunity to suggest new facets to consider. I took frequent advantage of these sessions to elicit Joe’s reaction to my thoughts about new directions in residency accreditation standards in response to the growth in clinical practice. Such conversations sometimes took 15 to 30 minutes, others lasted through a long dinner. He frequently counseled me to not move too quickly, or patiently explained to me why ASHP could not move as quickly as I sometimes seemed to be pushing for. As I look back, I am aware that I challenged his patience on several occasions. Joe frequently spoke about his experiences as director of pharmacy services at Western Pennsylvania Hospital in Pittsburgh in the mid-1950s. I think it’s fair to say that Joe’s vision for hospital pharmacy was shaped by that experience, leading him to a commitment to work toward raising the standards of pharmacy services and pharmacy practice in hospitals. His work at the American Hospital Association brought him to the attention of the leadership of ASHP, and then to his appointment as the Society’s Executive Secretary. By the time I joined the staff, ASHP had become a well-organized professional association. Joe’s view seemed to be that he could make his greatest contribution to pharmacy through building a strong professional home for those who practiced in hospitals. And indeed that was greatly needed at the time. His genius was in association leadership and management. He trusted the membership (and its volunteer and elected leaders) to identify the ways ASHP could help the profession advance; his role was to ensure that the membership had a strong organization to help achieve a progressive vision for practice. Joe Oddis was a behind-the-scenes type of leader, a modest man, a consummate gentleman. Our profession owes him an enormous debt. Max D. Ray, PharmD, MS, LHD (Hon), ScD (Hon), is Dean Emeritus, Western University College of Pharmacy. Donald E. Letendre My introduction to Joe Oddis was through Paul Parker, my mentor during my PharmD education and residency in Kentucky. It was March 15, 1982. Louise had given birth to our eldest son, Jacob, and later that day I received a call from Paul. I was curious to know how Paul learned so quickly about the birth of our son. In fact, he had not known this. After a congratulatory word or two, Paul launched into the purpose of his call. ASHP had established a new three-part position: Director of Clinical Affairs, Assistant Director of Accreditation Services, and Coordinator of Special Interest Groups. Paul had shared with Joe that he thought I was the right person for the job. After listening to Paul intently, I promised to call Joe to discuss the position. He indicated that was not necessary since Joe was, much to my astonishment, seated right next to him. A week later I was in Bethesda interviewing for the job. At the end of the day Joe drove me to the airport and while en route offered me the position. In accepting the offer, little did I realize how my life would change as a result of this decision. Joe understood that clinical pharmacy was quickly taking root and ASHP needed to focus more energy on this emerging discipline. While Joe gave me a high degree of latitude in how I approached my responsibilities, he specifically requested me to work closely with Max Ray, the Director of Accreditation Services, to develop standards for clinical residency training. Three years later, Max left ASHP and I assumed his responsibilities. It was a special time in the annals of ASHP: Membership was increasing; the Midyear Clinical Meeting was hailed for its growth and substance; AJHP grew in content and stature; AHFS was thriving; and residency training was being recognized across the profession as an essential component of workforce development. And through it all, there was Joe like the proverbial maestro, conducting a highly complex but well-played symphony. I learned quickly that Joe was a man of principle with a solid work ethic likely honed during his upbringing in the gritty coal-mining region of western Pennsylvania. Among the traits I admired most and have striven to emulate were his honesty, integrity, respect for others, perceptiveness, perseverance, and most especially, patience. He welcomed new ideas and enjoyed deliberating them over a fine cigar and a glass of well-aged single-malt scotch. Just when you thought you had sold him on an idea, he would respond: “I like your idea. Let’s think more about it. If it is a good decision tonight it will still be a good decision tomorrow.” He was like a Native American elder reminding his council that any idea worth pursuing deserved time for further reflection. Joe had an uncanny ability to hire talented people, put them in a position to succeed, and then let them blossom. While ASHP’s success during Joe’s tenure as CEO is widely recognized, less appreciated may be the collective strength of the staff under his leadership and the synergies he helped forge. The whole always seemed greater than the sum of its parts. As a member of staff, you knew you were part of something special that transcended individual achievement. Joe always made you feel personally respected and valued. For a man who probably never took a management course in his life, he sure knew how to manage. I had never set my sights on becoming a dean, but when the opportunity presented itself, Joe was extraordinarily gracious and went out of his way to emphasize how my personal strengths aligned with the responsibilities of the position I was contemplating. He shared stories about a couple of deans who had a profound impact on his life, and he challenged me to do the same for my students. It was a long, heartwarming exchange, one I will never forget. Joe was bestowed an honorary doctorate while I was a member of staff. We enjoyed calling him “Dr. Oddis.” To those of us who worked closely with him it was a title of endearment and respect. Through Joe’s vision, intellect, passion, professionalism, and singular focus, ASHP became one of the most influential and consequential pharmacy organizations in the world. He was clearly not your average Joe. Donald E. Letendre, BSPharm, PharmD, FASHP, is Dean and Professor, College of Pharmacy, University of Iowa. Susan A. Cantrell I first met Joe when I joined the ASHP staff in 1992. One of my first assignments was as ASHP liaison to the Food and Drug Administration’s MedWatch program, which was in the planning stages. I summarized my first MedWatch planning meeting in a memo to my director, Charles Myers. As was ASHP’s practice at the time, the memo was routed to the ASHP professional staff in a binder along with other communications from the week before. I was surprised and alarmed when a copy of the memo appeared in my inbox a few days later with a note from Dr. Oddis asking me to see him. What could I have possibly done to be summoned to a meeting with the CEO only weeks into the job? As a new junior staff member, I sincerely appreciated his willingness to take time to get to know me; it made me feel relevant and valued. Borrowing a page from his playbook, I now meet with each new staff member in my organization during their first few weeks. The meeting, as it turned out, wasn’t a meeting at all. It was an informal meet-and-greet—we discussed our families, my career path, Joe’s recent business trip to India, and other “life” topics. The memo was never mentioned. I would come to understand that this was Joe’s way of getting to know people, whether they be ASHP staff, student pharmacists, the wait staff at his favorite Italian restaurant, a taxi driver, basically anyone. To him, everyone mattered, and he cared deeply about humankind. As a new junior staff member, I sincerely appreciated his willingness to take time to get to know me; it made me feel relevant and valued. Borrowing a page from his playbook, I now meet with each new staff member in my organization during their first few weeks. Three years after I joined ASHP, the Board of Directors approved a staff plan to create an ASHP business unit, ASHP Advantage. It would fill a member need for educational opportunities outside the organization’s national meetings and would generate revenue to support member services. Representing a significant shift for ASHP, its programs would be supported by industry grant funding. Joe and ASHP’s Chief Operating Officer at the time, Mary Jo Reilly, offered me the opportunity to “see what I could do” to get this new venture off the ground, working from North Carolina, where I would be relocating. Considering the balance that would be necessary to make this venture successful while maintaining ASHP’s strict standards for objectivity and fair balance in its education, it was an intimidating task. Entrusting me with this responsibility may have been a minor decision for Joe and Mary Jo, but it would alter the course of my career and set me on the path of association leadership that led to the role I have today. I am forever grateful for the opportunities Joe provided me. We kept in touch after I left the ASHP family. The last time we met for lunch in May 2019, I asked him to share the story of how he and his beloved wife Jeanne met while stationed with the U.S. Army in Germany and the story of how Sister Gonzales influenced his early pharmacy career. Along the way, I finally got the answer to the question I had pondered for years: What do the initials “A. K.” stand for in Harvey Whitney’s name. (See George Phillips’s 1973 Whitney address entitled “Uncle Harvey.”) Joe Oddis left an indelible impression on my life and career. He was a friend, mentor, sage, and a guiding light that illuminates my path even to this day. I feel blessed to have known and learned from him and will miss him terribly. Susan A. Cantrell, BSPharm, CAE, served on the ASHP staff between 1992 and 2011. She is currently the Chief Executive Officer of the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy. Julie L. Webb I first met Dr. Oddis when ASHP was contemplating the creation of sections for members who had certain distinct roles in health-system pharmacy. I was on an ASHP home care practitioners advisory panel that helped imagine the future Section of Home Care Practitioners. I was in awe of Dr. Oddis, a legendary leader in American pharmacy. After I was hired as the director of the new home care section, I became a little nervous at first whenever Dr. Oddis asked for my thoughts on some topic or issue. I overcame that anxiety in short order. Today I am very appreciative that my role as an association executive began while Dr. Oddis was the CEO of ASHP. The passion I have for my work at ASHP can be traced to Dr. Oddis’s guidance over the years. He and I were very different, yet he valued my spiritedness while also taming it a bit. Sometimes he guided me subtly with a note on a copy of correspondence I had written, asking to see me to discuss the content. This was his way of learning the background on a particular issue and opening discussion about alternate, perhaps better, approaches to the matter at hand. While these summonses could be somewhat unsettling, they were also an opportunity to learn, debate, and discuss how to manage difficult situations for the benefit of ASHP members. I always felt valued in these coaching sessions. Dr. Oddis did not hesitate to use more pointed management techniques when they were indicated—for example, at an ASHP formal dinner, peering over his eyeglasses from the rostrum, sending a nonverbal signal that I had allowed the group at my table to get a bit rowdy. In recent years I realized I could benefit greatly from his continued mentorship and was fortunate to dine with him often. Sometimes his daughter, Marie, would come along. We spoke of many topics. Sometimes it related to my role at ASHP, other times it would be personal stories of family events and mutual friends and colleagues. Those evenings are memories I will always treasure. Rest well, Dr. Oddis. Julie L. Webb, BSPharm, has been on the ASHP staff since 1995 and currently serves as Senior Vice President, Office of Professional Development. Jocelyn D. Milford I am so blessed to have known Dr. Joseph A. Oddis for more than 50 years. Our families were woven together by my loving, late grandmother, Inez R. Turner, who worked at ASHP and also worked for the Oddis family. The African proverb said it best: “It takes a village” to raise a child. Dr. Oddis was an influential part of my village and my family. He was always there to support me and celebrate many important milestones in my life, and he helped shape and define who I am today. I observed how Dr. Oddis interacted with everyone on staff and how he took the time to personally get to know everyone and their families. Over the years, I learned a number of life lessons both by talking with Dr. Oddis and by observing how he treated others. One of his most impactful lessons was the importance of family. He loved his family and his ASHP family. When I first started working at ASHP 26 years ago, I observed how Dr. Oddis interacted with everyone on staff and how he took the time to personally get to know everyone and their families. When we had events like the annual ASHP family picnic or the Walter Jones Golf Classic, Dr. Oddis walked around and talked to everyone. He had a huge heart, and he cared about each one of us. Dr. Oddis was also an encourager, a mentor. I can’t remember a time when Dr. Oddis wasn’t there to encourage me. He encouraged and supported me during my college years when I worked at ASHP part-time. When I graduated from college, Dr. Oddis was there to celebrate with me. He was also there when I married my husband, Emanuel, and when I battled breast cancer. I will forever cherish Dr. Oddis’s wisdom, kindness, and compassion for others. One of my favorite memories of Dr. Oddis relates to my 20th ASHP anniversary dinner celebration. During the cocktail hour, my daughter, Myla, who was five years old, walked over to Dr. Oddis to show him her new selfie stick. Dr. Oddis sat down at the table with Myla and learned how to take a selfie. He made Myla feel like the most important person in the room. Dr. Oddis taught all of us that everyone is important, and we should take time for one another, listen to one another, and never stop learning. I am so incredibly blessed to have had Dr. Oddis in my life. We can all honor him by carrying on the many lessons he taught us about compassion, kindness, and caring for others. Jocelyn D. Milford, BA, serves as Program Coordinator in Communications on the ASHP staff. REPRISE Harvey A. K. Whitney Lecture In his 1970 Harvey A. K. Whitney Lecture, Dr. Oddis placed his remarks in context with the times, referring indirectly to the youth-led anti-Vietnam War movement and the upsurge of interest in consumer protection and environmentalism. A half-century after these words were written, readers will be struck by Dr. Oddis’s prescience in regard to pharmacy technology and technicians, pharmacists’ patient-care roles, the rise of generic medicines, and the need for a “coordinated organizational system for American pharmacy” (embodied today by the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners). The lessons he drew from history with respect to the success of ASHP will still ring true to many readers in 2021. Commitment and Involvement Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. Commitment and involvement. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1970; 27:455–8. If the decade of the sixties is to go down in history for its positive accomplishments—in spite of such blots as violence in our streets and the assassinations of three great Americans—the resounding voice and influence of the consumer is one notable observation. We, as citizens and consumers, have finally come out of our shell of complacency. We are demanding quality and safety in all aspects of our life, and our government must not fail to respond to our cry. Americans are demanding quality and safety in our air and water, in our household appliances, in our President’s nominees to the Supreme Court of the United States, in our drugs, in our total health care. This quest for excellence has affected all professions, business enterprises, and organizations which collectively comprise American society—from giant corporations which manufacture automobiles or drugs that are sometimes less than safe, to professionals who provide health care which is often less than optimum. In this new era of consumerism, it is easy to strike wildly. The hippie philosophy appears to be that nothing is worth saving, that it is better to destroy our social structure completely and start again from scratch. This element is adept at identifying what is wrong but almost totally inept at offering remedies. Despite the problems and injustices in our contemporary society, I believe there is much good that needs to be preserved. As responsible citizens and professionals, we need to retain what is good in all aspects of our lives, including the delivery of health care and the practice of pharmacy, and rebuild only what is bad. This constructive approach must not be allowed to give way to destruction of our very principles and foundations. Among the many problems of contemporary America—problems that require immediate attention through a constructive approach—is that of providing adequate health care. Our health resources are being strained beyond their limit. Among the factors exerting pressure on our health resources are population growth, the changing age structure of the population, better education, urbanization, and the long overdue realization that good health care is a right of all citizens, including the poor and the aged. Still, perhaps more progress has been made in the health sciences in the past decade than during the entire half-century preceding it. This progress, in large measure, can be attributed to the increased willingness and obligation of our government of the people to respond to the health care needs of all citizens. We are in the midst of a new era of the consumer, and his bill of rights is irrevocable. There is no turning back. Along with government, health practitioners and, through them, their associations and organizations deserve credit for their role in improving the quality, scope, and availability of health care. Unfortunately, some have lagged behind and have only adjusted their blinders in a futile attempt to preserve the status quo. Among organizations in the health field, our own American Pharmaceutical Association and American Society of Hospital Pharmacists need not take a back seat to any in terms of aggressiveness, progressiveness, and social as well as professional commitment. I believe we are well prepared for the decade ahead. Early in this decade, it will be necessary for this nation to enunciate a basic policy of health goals at all levels and to delineate the mechanisms which will be required to support this policy. Pharmacy must participate, and it must do so with the realization that no single element of the profession nor, indeed, any single member of the profession has a monopoly on ideas. Working together, I am confident that we can demonstrate the commitment and involvement that will be required. In participating in the development of a policy for health care, pharmacy must make a place for its students and its youth; they have amply demonstrated that they have the commitment, but we must now provide more opportunity for meaningful involvement. In considering some of the possible causes and effects of a national health policy, one observation stands out. Despite the continuing need for total, integrated delivery of health care, such care will be largely institution based—not necessarily within four walls but emanating from behind the walls and extending into the community. Further, it is already evident that total health care is shifting towards large institutions, and this pattern will probably continue for reasons of efficiency and economy. The small hospital, despite its importance and continued need, will care for proportionately fewer and fewer patients as a system continues to develop. One social force that is accelerating the trend towards institution-based health care is the migration of the independent, solo health practitioner, along with his affluent patients, to suburbia, leaving the inner city and rural America deficient in the availability of health care services. This deficiency will never be solved on a solo practice basis—some form of institutional or group practice is the only answer. In short, health care will revolve more and more around the institutional setting regardless of the number of pharmacists who will be considered institutional practitioners as opposed to community practitioners. Other observations with specific reference to pharmacy will influence our national health policy: - 1. In his attempt to restrain the spiraling costs of quality health care, the consumer, through our federal government which has repeatedly examined practices of the pharmaceutical industry, will focus more and more attention on archaic methods of dispensing prescription drugs to patients. The big question is whether pharmacists will meet the challenge or whether the consumer, through his government, will force the issue. - 2. Related to this, it is widely accepted that many of the routine, traditional dispensing and administrative functions performed by pharmacists can be performed more efficiently, more economically, and more safely by machines or technicians. Thus, by judicious use of automation and technicians, under the control and supervision of pharmacists, pharmacists will continue to expand their professional responsibilities in the area of drug information, clinical practice, and other emerging functions. More and more supportive personnel will be employed in hospital pharmacies. Not only will technicians dispense, manufacture, and package, but other professionals—chemists, systems experts, business managers, and others—will find a place in the hospital pharmacy of the future, particularly as total health care continues to shift to larger institutions. The hospital pharmacist will serve as scientist-administrator-director rather than dispenser. - 3. By teaching students about drugs in real life, i.e., in the hospital, schools of pharmacy will educate every student so that he will be able to practice in any environment he chooses. This means that all schools will have a clinical facility as a laboratory and a clinical faculty composed primarily of experienced hospital pharmacists. The professional doctor of pharmacy degree will be standard for those who plan to become practitioners. - 4. Externship or internship for pharmacy students will either become unnecessary in this clinical environment or, if it is retained, it will be fulfilled primarily in the hospital. Licensure will be based on a stringent standardized national examination which will enable the graduate to practice his profession anywhere in the United States. - 5. As pharmacy continues to shift emphasis to the patient as well as the product and as the body of knowledge of the physician becomes increasingly specialized, the pharmacist will be accepted as the drug expert on the health team and he will exert a profound influence on the prescribing of drugs, particularly in hospitals. This will happen in spite of parochial interests and the reluctance of some health professionals to change the status quo. - 6. As the consumer continues to insist that the government increases its regulatory powers and as the effects of formulation of drug products on their efficacy become better understood, differences among brands of a drug will become a minor consideration in the future practice of medicine and pharmacy. The physician, pharmacist, and patient will have reasonably complete assurance that any drug product available for use will perform in the expected manner and with brand-to-brand consistency of effectiveness. Thus, the pharmacist will become less concerned about whose drug product will be used and more concerned about which drug the patient needs. This reinforces the belief that he will markedly influence prescribing habits. It is abundantly clear that the practice of pharmacy must better adapt to contemporary needs. Pharmacy, individually and collectively, must rise to the occasion, and organized pharmacy must lead the way. In light of the developments taking place around us, some basic questions require answers: Can a coordinated organizational system for American pharmacy evolve which has as its basic objective the interest of the public in matters relating to clinical pharmacy and drug use control? Can this coordinated organizational system be so designed as to be truly representative of, and responsive to, practitioners in different settings who perform a variety of specialized functions? Is it possible that there should be more emphasis on unity of purpose and cooperative organization—on unison as well as on “one voice” for pharmacy? Past Whitney recipient Latiolais, in his lecture two years ago, called for an “organizational audit” of the ASHP and its affiliated chapters. Such an audit, he stated, “would involve an in-depth self-appraisal of goals and objectives, practices and services, membership and staff, membership needs and capabilities, affiliated chapter activities and requirements, and overall strengths and weaknesses.” Mr. Latiolais continued: “Indeed, such an organizational audit could pave the way for unparalleled achievement within the sphere of organized American pharmacy.” I concur that an organizational audit is called for. Further, I believe that such an audit should be applied to organized American pharmacy as a whole. In an editorial in the July 1962 issue of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy entitled “The American Hospital Pharmacy Movement—Episode or Event?”, Dr. Don E. Francke stated: A movement is a connected and long series of events leading toward a goal. In contrast, an episode happens and comes to an end; it is an independent action that stands alone. A review of the records shows that the hospital pharmacy movement is a series of interrelated, planned events which continuously generates new events. Dr. Francke then continued by separating the events of the American hospital pharmacy movement into four rather distinct phases. A decade has passed since the beginning of the fourth phase. In view of the developments and influences we have pondered, perhaps it can be said that we are now entering the fifth phase of the American hospital pharmacy movement, a phase which may be identified with the new challenges which face us. Throughout all phases, we have witnessed a commitment and involvement on the part of members of the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists unparalleled in the history of the profession. Today, more than ever before, we are being asked to dedicate ourselves to a life of commitment to and involvement in the things that face us daily in our homes, our profession, our government, and in a host of activities relating to our existence on earth. To strive continually for commitment and involvement is essential in our pursuit of excellence. But in this pursuit, we must keep in mind always the warning of John W. Gardner who, as President of the Carnegie Foundation, wrote: A society that has reached the heights of excellence may already be caught in the rigidities that will bring it down. An institution may hold itself to the highest standards and yet already be entombed in the complacency that will eventually spell its decline. This is a danger to which we must ever be alert. And so, as we enter the decade of the seventies, almost three decades removed from the founding of the Society and two decades since the establishment of the Harvey A. K. Whitney Lecture Award, we are challenged with a resolve for greater commitment and involvement not in terms of self-interest but, in a larger and more meaningful sense, in terms of public welfare. The Society can be thankful for its achievements in a brief span of 28 years. These achievements can be attributed to a number of factors. We have been successful because of our involvement in professional activities both at the national and local levels. We have been successful through constructive confrontation by facing issues when they have been clearly identified and a reasonable and rational course of action has been outlined. We have been successful because we have established realistic goals and objectives and have worked to achieve them. We have been successful because of our receptive attitude to change in the public interest. We have been successful because we know the value of introspection—of constantly looking at ourselves and our Society to ensure that our programs and objectives are sound and in keeping with contemporary needs. Finally, we have been successful because we have been unafraid of hard work and are willing to give without waiting to receive. All of this can be summarized succinctly, I believe, by a quote from the Society’s Statement on Goals for Hospital Pharmacy: History shows that groups which unite with a purpose, which give a selfless service for the greater good, which make plans and keep driving forward, which set immediate objectives yet maintain a degree of flexibility, which prepare themselves for the future—are those which make tremendous progress. REMEMBRANCES: The ASHP Family Victor P. Jones I am one of several “ASHP babies.” As children with a parent or grandparent working at ASHP, we became assimilated into the family culture that Dr. Oddis fostered among the staff. We loved the amazing ASHP annual family picnics—all the food and soft drinks you wanted, and the fun games on the field. Many of the kids from back then are still my friends today. My dad (Walter Jones) and Dr. Oddis had an amazing relationship. I spent a lot of time with those two men while not understanding how they could be friends given their wide differences. They simply had a genuine friendship, and there was no point in analyzing it. Some days I would go to the office and help my dad deliver mail or run errands. He liked to participate in Dr. Oddis’s after-5 sessions for staff and visitors. When I had an opportunity to be a part of those sessions, I enjoyed the bottomless sodas and mixed nuts. I smile as I think about this because very few kids would be excited about sitting around a large meeting room table listening to older people talk. There was never a time I felt uncomfortable or out of place. I remember Dr. Oddis smiling at me to signal it was my turn to talk. He always included me in the conversation. Dr. Oddis would tell me stories about how he met my dad for the first time, how he noticed how well Dad dressed, how Dad came to the office driving this big orange vehicle, how impressed he was with my dad from the beginning. Dr. Oddis would tell me stories about how he met my dad for the first time, how he noticed how well Dad dressed, how Dad came to the office driving this big orange vehicle, how impressed he was with my dad from the beginning. Sometimes as those informal staff gatherings came to a close, there would be just three of us left. Dr. Oddis would stand up and say, “Are you guys ready?” I knew at this point Mrs. Oddis was at work and I was about to get a great meal somewhere in Bethesda. While I was eating everything in sight, Dad and Dr. Oddis would discuss work topics. They eventually would switch to talking about ordinary things in daily life. I learned about what was going on with Dr. Oddis’s children, Joe and Marie, and with his wife Jeanne. I would always get to talk about my education and sports. Dr. Oddis and my dad would make sure the each other was doing okay. The three of us took a few road trips together. When I got older I became their personal driver. This progressed to the point where both of them would ride in the back seat. This seems extraordinary as I think about it now. My father was a good man. He did not necessarily like everyone, but he respected everyone. He called everyone Slim—you were either Big Slim or Little Slim. My father fought cancer and suffered through chemotherapy. I remember praying his last night that God would take him if he was ready. I was there when he woke from an induced sleep to ask me if I was okay and he said he was tired. Dr. Oddis would not allow me to have Dad’s memorial service anywhere else but at ASHP. I’m at peace knowing that these two special friends are together again. Victor P. Jones is an insurance agent in Maryland. Following graduation from Virginia Tech in 1993, he played football for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Detroit Lions. Lilly Sullivan Brotons In October 1968, my mom, Marilyn Sullivan, was hired to be a secretary for Norman Hochman, ASHP Director of Administrative Services. Walter Jones and Domini Alteri, who became important people in my life, were already working for ASHP at the time. I was born in 1970 and became a member of the eclectic and loving ASHP family. Regardless of their personal situation—single, married, parent or non-parent—many staff members found the ASHP family to be a significant presence in their lives. In my case, I counted Domini Alteri and Marla Davis among my ASHP mothers, and I had many ASHP aunts and uncles. From days when I was with Mom at the office, I remember fondly the after-5 sessions in the boardroom with Dr. Oddis at the head of the table and Walter Jones at the opposite end. During the conversation, Dr. Oddis would sometimes lower his head and look over his reading glasses, with his eyebrows raised and a twinkle in his eye, and say to me, “What do you think, Melinda?” Melinda—we were never sure where that nickname came from, but that was what he called me, and the memory still warms my heart. Occasionally, as an after-5 session wound down, Dr. Oddis would invite Mom and me and others to join him for an impromptu dinner at the Pines of Rome or the Bethesda Country Club. The annual ASHP family picnics were especially fun for the ASHP kids. Great food prepared by Mrs. Inez Turner, card games, and various field games, including softball. When I was 14 years old, I was seriously injured in a bicycle accident. Dr. Oddis and his wife Jeanne had key roles in my recovery and were very supportive of my mom. When I was well enough to visit ASHP, Dr. Oddis came into my mom’s office with tears in his eyes to give me a hug. He told me I would be okay. After an ASHP national meeting, there would always be stories at the after-5 sessions about the travel experiences of Mom, Marla, Domini, and Walter. Those stories usually involved dining, planning to dine, and adventuresome drives. Dr. Oddis would laugh and laugh at the stories while smoking his cigar. Dr. Oddis gave my mom the opportunity of a lifetime to learn and grow at ASHP. She had major responsibilities for all facets of the exhibit program of the Midyear Clinical Meeting. She helped make the Midyear the extraordinary event it has become. Dr. Oddis supported my mom through some hard times as a single parent. She held him in high regard and trusted him deeply, and she adored the entire Oddis family. In commenting on his after-5 sessions with staff, he said to me, starting with one of his signature phrases, “Well, you know, it was a time for anyone to come in and relax. During those times, a lot of work took place. People talked and I listened. Often, I would initiate a topic and listen and chime in; it fostered a free flow of ideas, and I believe it worked.” At Mom’s memorial service, it was emotionally difficult for me to greet and speak with all the guests who came to celebrate her life. I remember the moment I saw Dr. Oddis. He hugged me and we cried, and he told me, “It will be all right, we will be all right.” A treasured memory. Dr. Oddis invited me to join him for lunch at the Bethesda Country Club in 2019. We sat and reminisced and caught up. I told him that I learned so much from him, how he always listened to people and gave them his full attention. No matter who it was and what role they held, they had his attention. In commenting on his after-5 sessions with staff, he said to me, starting with one of his signature phrases, “Well, you know, it was a time for anyone to come in and relax. During those times, a lot of work took place. People talked and I listened. Often, I would initiate a topic and listen and chime in; it fostered a free flow of ideas, and I believe it worked.” Dr. Oddis created and nurtured a huge and loving support system at ASHP. His grace, smile, and love touched me and many people over the years, and this is a major part of his legacy. Lilly Sullivan Brotons lives in Maryland and is a manager at a retail store for home decorators. Marilu Tousignaut I first met Joe Oddis on a hot and humid August morning in 1966. My husband was in the ASHP building for an impromptu meeting and interview. We had just returned from two years overseas and were on a cross-country trip of job interviews. Dwight had neglected to mention during his meeting that in the dusty parking lot near the building three little kids and I were waiting. After a couple of hours, Joe and Dwight came out to the car and we were introduced. I was never sure if Joe was annoyed or pleased by Dwight’s silence about the family he had abandoned in the parking lot, but Joe told this story on numerous occasions over the 35 years that we all were, as he often said, part of the ASHP family. During those years the majority of my interaction with Joe was over fine dining in a hotel cafe, a five-star restaurant, or the Bethesda Country Club. Among my fondest memories are those of the times during the annual congresses of the International Pharmaceutical Federation when Joe would set aside a few hours for a quiet dinner with his wife Jeanne, Dwight, and me. Always an enjoyable evening with Joe and Jeanne. Joe promoted the idea of the ASHP staff as a family. He kept track of our kids’ interests and activities, asking about their studies, their sports accomplishments, their goals. He encouraged my artwork and exhibitions. On one occasion, I confess to having been bored with the pharmacy talk at an FIP dinner with a dozen or so guests. I discretely, or so I thought, pulled out a ballpoint pen and the invitation card to an upcoming event and sketched the parents and child at a nearby table. When the business conversation ended, Joe came around the table, looked at my drawing, and presented it to the surprised family. Joe said he’d been watching me do the sketch and was impressed. He would encourage people that way. Joe was gracious, caring, elegant, fair, a tough negotiator. He loved God, family, and pharmacy . . . maybe in that order, maybe not. He definitely was a special friend. Marilu Tousignaut is an artist who lives in Frederick, Maryland. REPRISE Historian and Futurist The organizers of pharmacy conferences often invited Joseph Oddis to headline their programs, and he usually accepted those invitations as opportunities to talk about the history of hospital pharmacy, analyze trends affecting healthcare, and offer salient predictions about the future of institutional pharmacy practice. This lecture, presented in 1983 at the University of Texas, demonstrates his insightfulness and his accuracy in predicting how some key trends would play out in the professional lives of ASHP members. Current and Future Pharmacy Initiatives in Institutional and Corporate Practice Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. Current and future pharmacy initiatives in institutional and corporate practice. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1984; 41:279–84. I am delighted to share my thoughts on what changes we can anticipate in institutional pharmacy practice and how hospital pharmacists will cope with such changes. Although currently there are hundreds of issues affecting hospital pharmacists to some extent, and these issues undoubtedly will have an even more pronounced effect in a year or two, I am going to concentrate on six areas in which extraordinary developments have taken place. I will attempt to show how these developments are influencing and will continue to influence hospital pharmacy as we now know it. Before I discuss these issues, however, it will help set the stage if I review some history of hospital pharmacy and the changes it has undergone over the last 25 years. Assuming ASHP’s growth mirrors the growth of hospital pharmacy, allow me to expound on that a bit. ASHP was founded in 1942, making us 41 years old. In 1960, we established a full-time office with a staff of two people. Since 1960 we have grown along with the profession we serve, and now the Society has a staff of close to 100 people and a budget of about $8 million annually. Our three major sources of income are publications, which provide us with approximately 55% of that $8 million yearly; continuing-education programs, which account for nearly 21% of our budget; and membership dues, which account for roughly 20% of the annual budget. The remaining 5% is derived from investments and the like. Our current membership is about 20,000. How did all of this come about since 1960? Throughout the 1960s and 1970s there was tremendous growth within the hospital industry itself. Medicare came in the 1960s. There were major curriculum changes in undergraduate education, leading to an increased demand for continuing-education programs for practitioners. The Society enjoyed excellent timing with its various publishing and continuing-education projects, and we began to strengthen our already strong tradition responding to the needs of members. I must emphasize that the Society has come a long way in a relatively short time simply because it responded to the demands of institutional pharmacy practitioners. Institutional pharmacy is big business and has grown to be so mostly within the last two decades. All indications show that although the health-care field in general may have some peaks and valleys over the next 20 years, we do not foresee any major difficulties ahead for hospital pharmacy. I cannot say with any certainty that our growth will escalate as it has over the past two decades, but I can say that the growth will definitely continue. The issues that I foresee as having a strong impact on institutional pharmacists during the next several years are as follows: Health-care financing, Clinical pharmacy services, Institutional outreach programs, Consolidation of hospitals and corporaterestructuring, Use of pharmacy manpower, Product selection. Health-Care Financing Allow me to introduce health-care financing by giving a bit of its history. With the inception of Medicare and Medicaid in the mid-l960s, the philosophy that health-care benefits were a human right, regardless of social or economic class, took hold as a widely held national premise. The result was a dramatic increase in demand for health care, coupled with a growing perception that not only was health care a right, but it was also “free.” Consumers of health care had virtually no incentive to be prudent buyers. As a matter of fact, because of the nature of reimbursement schemes, there were actually instances when the more economic route was discouraged. Throughout the 1970s, each Administration attempted to stem the tide of rising health-care costs through a labyrinth of regulation that, on the one hand, mandated programs and services and, on the other hand, whittled away at the extent to which government would pay for them. As we are all aware, earlier this year Congress enacted the Social Security Act Amendments of 1983 that incorporates prospective pricing by diagnosis-related groups (DRGs). The effect of that legislation is to change the incentives and payment mechanisms for health care for the elderly and, ultimately, the substance of what health care is for all Americans. I believe we are on the brink of dramatic and revolutionary change in the delivery of health care. With health-care financing as the driving force, during the next several years we will see unprecedented change regarding where care is provided, how it is provided, who provides it, and perhaps even to whom it is provided. The implications of the new federal reimbursement scheme, the first phase of which began October 1, will reach far beyond the Medicare population and inpatient hospital setting at which it is aimed. A chain of events has been set in motion that will influence the decisions of private carriers, like Blue Cross, Travelers, and Aetna; other providers, such as health maintenance organizations, home health-care agencies, long-term care facilities, and preferred provider organizations; and, perhaps most important, employers and business coalitions. Their decisions may be based first on issues of cost and then on issues of relative quality. William A. Zellmer,1 editor of the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, aptly described the potential impact of the new reimbursement scheme: Heretofore, physicians have dictated the level of hospital care provided to patients with little or no regard to cost. Now for the first time, cost will become a part of the equation, at least for Medicare patients, because hospitals will have an incentive to minimize expenditures. If the system works—and there is no guarantee that it will—it could be adopted by other third-party payers. Indeed, this adoption by third parties is already beginning to happen. The shift of primary emphasis to cost issues clearly presents health-care professionals, including pharmacists, with conflict. We have spent two decades or more focusing attention on quality of care. We have “sold” pharmaceutical services primarily on that basis, and much of the documentation we have gathered to justify systems and services relies on the perspective that more is better when it comes to health care. Congress has told us that now not only is more not better, but even if it were, we probably could not afford it. The challenge to pharmacy will be to maintain and continue to improve the quality of care made possible through good, comprehensive pharmaceutical services while refocusing attention on the relative cost of providing those services. In my opinion, the success of institutional pharmacists in dealing with this refocused decision-making process based on cost will be determined by how effectively they develop clinical skills and services so that they can show how clinical services can reduce costs. A solid base of distributive and administrative services, including strict formulary controls and strict purchasing and inventory-control measures, is virtually a prerequisite to controlling cost and quality creatively and innovatively. From that base, clinical skills have the potential to improve therapeutic patterns by decreasing the incidence of iatrogenic illness, length of stay, cost of therapy, and inventory—all of which further decrease the total cost of care. Therefore, the goals of rational drug use and reduction of health costs are not incompatible; rather, they are complementary. Critical to the successful transition from cost-based reimbursement to prospective pricing by diagnosis will be the ability of institutional pharmacists to understand the challenges facing them on both the philosophical and implementation levels. ASHP stands ready to assist its members in coping with present and future challenges of health-care financing, but the successful transition to DRGs will depend upon all professionals involved in health care, from those in academia to those in the pharmaceutical industry, from the hospital administrator to the physician (whose cooperation is essential to the pharmacist) to the pharmacy faculty member. Everyone has a personal responsibility to contribute to the collective effort to understand and cooperate with changes in health-care financing. We all have a stake in the outcome of these changes. Clinical Pharmacy Services Pharmacists in institutions have made major progress in implementing up-to-date clinical services in hospitals. This statement is built upon facts drawn from the most recent ASHP-conducted national survey of hospital pharmaceutical services.2 Compared with surveys done by us in 1975 and 1978, remarkable gains in the implementation of contemporary pharmaceutical services are evident. For example, the 1982 survey shows the number of hospitals with complete unit dose and complete i.v. admixture programs has increased dramatically, jumping from 9.2% in 1975 to 45.1% in 1982. Approximately 72% of all hospitals in the United States covered some portion of their beds with a unit dose drug distribution system in 1982, which is triple the amount in 1975. Two thirds of the hospitals had at least a partial i.v. admixture program last year; this is more than double the percentage in 1975. Such programs are intrinsic to maintaining quality patient care while controlling costs. When reviewing this survey I found it reassuring to note that the number of hospital pharmacies using computers has doubled in the past four years, and nearly half of all pharmacies have plans to purchase a major piece of equipment this year. Clearly, computerization is becoming a necessary component of contemporary pharmacy practice. These data indicate that members of our profession are gathering the skills and expertise needed in various technologies to thrive in the future. Since the last survey conducted in 1978, we have also seen a doubling of the number of hospitals in which pharmacists assume an active role in counseling patients, monitoring drug therapy, and attending rounds with physicians. Implementation of such contemporary clinical services is the key to cost containment and improved patient care. Institutional Outreach Programs Just as changes in the area of health-care financing offer an opportunity to advance clinical services, so also do we observe changes in a third area, institutional outreach programs. These programs should present similar opportunities for pharmacy. I am using the phrase “institutional outreach programs” as an umbrella for various ambulatory-care programs, including free-standing physician group practice clinics, emergency-care centers, and general patient counseling programs. Additional delivery modes for institutional outreach programs include hospital-based clinics, emergency rooms, and community and hospital outpatient pharmacies. The whole area of institutional outreach programs has burgeoned from the traditional ambulatory-care clinic. Much progress has been made in this area, and, because the concept of institutional outreach programs is compatible with the previously described emphasis on cost containment and clinical services, I believe that the near future holds much progress here. By the mid-1960s, ambulatory-care clinics associated with hospitals were a well-established part of health care in this country. As these clinics were built, some hospital pharmacists found themselves poorly equipped to take care of their growing outpatient population and simultaneously maintain a good level of service to inpatients. Very frankly, when hospital pharmacists had to make a choice, outpatients came out on the short end. It was not too long ago—in the 1950s—when most outpatient pharmacies issued drugs in coin envelopes and recycled glass bottles, frequently with handwritten labels. Patient-pharmacist communication did not exist, and, in general, outpatient services were crude. But we have come a long way since then, and we are still going. In 1970, 37% of the hospitals in the U.S. operated ambulatory-care programs; by 1980 that figure rose to 46%.3,4 During that 10-year period the total number of annual outpatient visits rose from 114.8 million to 135 million. Annual visits to hospital emergency departments also rose during this period from 52 million to 82 million. Most dramatically, outpatient revenue now averages about 12% of total revenue for hospitals and is growing at a rate faster than inpatient revenue. We are now seeing the development of emergency-care centers based upon the same concept as legal clinics and no-frills airlines. In 1979 there were about 80 such centers in the U.S.; by the beginning of next year 750 will be in operation. Supporters of these centers claim that they fill the gap between what could be costly emergency-room treatment and private physician consultation. Critics and investment advisors refer to them as a “Medical McDonald’s” or “Doc-in-the-Box.” Regardless of viewpoint, such options are now available to outpatients, and some physicians have admitted to extending their hours and even to making house calls to meet the competition from such centers. Whatever the outcome, the message is obvious: Ambulatory care is changing at such a rapid rate that we cannot assume an institution’s ambulatory-care philosophy is the same today as it was just six months ago. Certainly the next few years will be even more telling. What does all this mean in relation to hospital pharmacy departments? It means that if a hospital is committed to overall ambulatory-care expansion—and most of them are—pharmacy must be an integral part of that development. Pharmacy departments initiate involvement in such areas as dialysis programs, home total parenteral nutrition services, oncology chemotherapy, diabetes management programs, pain management programs, home antibiotic injection programs, and general patient counseling programs. We are seeing and will continue to see an increase in such programs because pharmacies in hospitals must adapt to the changing roles and needs of the institutions they serve. This issue of institutional outreach programs points to an inescapable conclusion and that is as follows: The future of institutional pharmacists is being shaped by some very positive factors that are allowing them to enhance their role as true health professionals and providers of quality care. As we advance through the 1980s, we are seeing a time when institutional pharmacists are able to provide a continuum of care to ambulatory patients who continue to consider the hospital as their source of health care. This is exciting, challenging, and is happening now. And one of the ways in which we see it enforced is through what I view as the fourth dynamic issue influencing the profession of institutional pharmacy: hospital corporate restructuring and consolidation. ...if a hospital is committed to overall ambulatory-care expansion—and most of them are—pharmacy must be an integral part of that development. Pharmacy departments initiate involvement in such areas as dialysis programs, home total parenteral nutrition services, oncology chemotherapy, diabetes management programs, pain management programs, home antibiotic injection programs, and general patient counseling programs. We are seeing and will continue to see an increase in such programs because pharmacies in hospitals must adapt to the changing roles and needs of the institutions they serve. Consolidation of Hospitals and Corporate Restructuring The consolidation and corporate restructuring of hospitals permit diversification of services in a highly competitive environment. Currently, large corporations operate approximately 15% (about 1000) of America’s 7000 hospitals. This is nearly double the number since 1976, and this number is increasing. Certainly such a change in ownership will have tremendous impact on the mix of hospital services. According to Thomas Frist, Jr., president of Hospital Corporation of America, which is the largest of the investor-owned hospital chains, one of his primary concerns is to keep Wall Street happy by maintaining an upward slope in HCA’s earnings per share. Frist said that he hopes to have 500 hospitals by 1985 or 1986, and he wants HCA to be the country’s largest health-care company, topping Johnson & Johnson, by 1990. (Remember, HCA had 328 hospitals in 1981 and only 186 in 1980.) His plan is that by the year 2000 HCA will have attained the stature of General Electric and IBM and will be one of the country’s top five companies. Paul M. Frison, president of Lifemark Corporation, believes that the investor-owned sector will possess between 25% and 30% of the country’s hospitals within the next 10 years. Lifemark, which operates 35 hospitals in 10 sun belt states, as well as ancillary contract management business, plans on having between 40 and 45 hospitals by 1986. Clearly, with such shifting of management structures, hospital departments and services will be affected. An interesting trend has developed within various multihospital systems. Not only are we noticing similarities in services such as the development of free-standing clinics (many of which contain pharmacies), but both profit and nonprofit systems are now quite similar. According to Donald Wegmiller, president of the nonprofit Health Central System, nonprofit multihospital corporations will increase their margins in existing lines of business. This will be done through reductions in personnel, energy, and materials consumption and an increase in management efforts aimed at cost containment. Wegmiller believes that the shift toward prospective pricing will benefit nonprofit hospital systems because they have more room to improve productivity. Meanwhile, aggressive pricing of services by nonprofit corporations will lead to better profit margins, which are needed to build equity and win the support of bond buyers. In the short run, however, nonprofit corporations will be forced to examine their patient mix and compare that with services offered. In the long run, though, corporate restructuring of hospitals will provide the ability for hospitals to attract the best people, and training programs will be implemented to produce not only better quality health care, but eventually to create lower-cost health care as well. And because multihospital corporations are already supporting programs such as quality assurance, fiscal management, and information systems, they are well equipped to meet the future. Use of Pharmacy Manpower As a direct outgrowth of the issue of corporate restructuring of hospitals comes another issue that I believe will have a great impact on hospital pharmacy. This issue is one of manpower. Samuel J. Tibbitts, president and chief executive officer of Lutheran Hospital Society of Southern California and chairman of Health Network of America, Inc., states that by the year 2000 more than 90% of all U.S. hospitals—profit and nonprofit alike—will belong to multihospital systems. And, as described previously, trends now are showing this to be true. This consolidation is resulting in a re-evaluation of manpower, and we do not have to wait until the year 2000 to see this. Already hospital pharmacists are acting in executive and managerial positions in multihospital systems and corporations. Where once these people were only responsible for the function of one institution’s pharmacy, now they are overseeing the function of pharmacies in consolidated systems. One of the selling points of clinical pharmacy is its cost- containment aspect, and it is the clinical pharmacist with good management background who may be selected for pharmacy management positions within multihospital systems. During the next several years, we will see these pharmacist managers stress productivity, efficiency, energy conservation, systems review and design, and purchase practices. In many hospitals, already we are seeing pharmacy personnel learning all facets of operations to maximize their versatility and improve their skills. This retraining and refocusing of pharmacy personnel has resulted in some interesting statistics. For instance, the total number of individuals completing ASHP-accredited hospital pharmacy residency programs in 1973 was 143; this year we anticipate 375 pharmacists will complete these postgraduate programs. In other words, within 10 years we have seen more than a 250% increase in the annual number of practitioners successfully completing residency programs. One of the primary reasons for this jump in numbers is that graduates of ASHP-approved residency programs are better equipped to face the changes now being encountered by the profession, and because of this preparation they are more attractive to employers. I should also add that there are 154 accredited residency programs now available across the country in both general and specialized practice areas; 20 years ago, the accreditation program was just being launched. The use of technicians in hospital pharmacies will continue to grow as more and more pharmacists become good managers and develop the savvy about what it takes to succeed in the hospital environment of the next several years. In a study published last year in the American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, the proportion of time pharmacists spent in professional versus nonprofessional activities was shown to be directly related to the number of technicians in the pharmacy.5 As staffing patterns varied, differences occurred in the ratio of professional to nonprofessional activities, with the greatest percentage of professional activity recorded when a pharmacist worked with more than one technician. This is certainly a manpower issue to ponder. Product Selection Twenty years ago, ASHP and the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, and the American Pharmaceutical Association worked out an agreement on the principles of the hospital formulary system. This agreement placed the responsibility for the authorization and implementation of the formulary system in the hands of the hospital pharmacy and therapeutics (P & T) committees. We have seen over the ensuing years that the formulary system has spawned pharmacy’s most effective programs for ensuring the quality and the cost of institutional patient care. Now that hospitals have become extremely aware of the need for cost containment, the formulary system will become increasingly important over the next several years. According to contemporary hospital formulary systems, the pharmacist has the authority to select the supplier or the brand of medication dispensed unless the prescriber makes a specific notation to the contrary. The results of the 1982 survey of hospital pharmaceutical services demonstrate that this practice occurs in 90% of all short-term hospitals in the United States. Additionally, in 40% of short-term hospitals the medical staff has given the pharmacy authority to dispense a particular drug entity in place of a therapeutically similar but chemically different drug. As we witness the changes happening in the health-care arena today, especially the drastic changes in the system of health-care financing, it is imperative that medicine and pharmacy cooperate to retain professional control over drug therapy. ASHP believes that a formulary system, within which the medical staff may authorize and place conditions upon use of therapeutic equivalents, is a means under which health professionals can control costs without compromising patient care. Future of Institutional Pharmacy Practice As we ponder the future of health care in general, and of institutional pharmacy in particular, we must first ponder the future of health-care financing. Whether or not prospective pricing and DRGs will survive is not the issue. Rather, what we must realize is that we cannot afford to perpetuate a health-care system that stimulates growth in costs at three times the general rate of inflation. Zellmer1 identified four implications of the changing health-care financing milieu for hospital pharmacists. Paraphrased somewhat, these implications are as follows: We will see that strategic planning is more important than ever for hospital departments. The trend toward increased competition among hospitals was apparent well before DRGs entered the picture. A hospital that had a formal plan to deal with this factor would not have had to adjust much to accommodate DRGs. As one pharmacist put it, “DRGs have not changed any of my goals for pharmacy . . . What DRGs have done, however, is compelled us to move more quickly—we no longer have the luxury of time.” We will also witness an intensification of initiatives by pharmacy and therapeutics committees, including drug-use review and prescribing restrictions. Formulary systems in general, and pharmacists’ product-selection prerogatives in particular, will be strengthened. P & T committees are likely to give special attention to the use of antibiotics. Any expensive new drug product can expect closer scrutiny than ever before. Department directors will need to keep closer tabs on operational expenses. Within the next few years, administrators will probably expect pharmacy departments to determine their average costs per DRG. This will escalate the need for computerization and the demand for a pharmacy work-measurement system such as the one ASHP is developing. Institutional pharmacists will have to sharpen their political skills. Competition will be keen not only among hospitals but also among hospital departments. Pharmacists will have to position themselves for appointment to key committees that will be reviewing the cost and quality of patient care and developing corrective programs. Also, pharmacy managers will have to be flexible to move into new areas (such as home health care) to help institutions meet their objectives. Other changes in institutional practice that are likely to occur include the following: Institutional pharmacy can expect to see a decrease in the size and dollar value of drug inventories, an increase in the use of bid prices, prescribing sanctions established by P & T committees, physician education on the relative costs of alternative therapies, and certainly an increase in drug-use reviews. It is not unreasonable to anticipate the physician oversupply, which is predicted to reach 70,000 by the year 1990, to influence institutional pharmacists’ responsibilities and prerogatives. However, the increasing number of salaried physicians, which is now estimated to be 30–50% of all physicians, may provide incentives for physicians to become active partners in the effort to control hospital costs because reduced expenditures will mean greater hospital income. This can be translated into increased benefits and salaries for all hospital personnel, including salaried physicians. In spite of our best efforts to control costs, health care will continue to be a growth industry during the next decade, possibly reaching 15% of GNP. New “partners” on the health-care team will be technology and educated consumers who will be increasingly involved in their own wellness scenarios. The future of institutional pharmacists is being shaped by factors that ultimately will enable practitioners to enhance their roles as health professionals and providers of economical quality care. Our responsibility is to respond to this challenge. Conclusion Although we are seeing many changes in the health-care industry that will have an impact on institutional pharmacists, such changes in the long run will have a very positive effect on our profession. The word “change” can be intimidating, but we must remember that each time one door closes, another opens. We are seeing institutional pharmacists equipping themselves to provide the leadership within their institutions to balance the pharmaceutical needs of health-care consumers with the financial constraints of the times. The future of institutional pharmacists is being shaped by factors that ultimately will enable practitioners to enhance their roles as health professionals and providers of economical quality care. Our responsibility is to respond to this challenge. References REMEMBRANCES: Professional Colleagues Charles M. West Many years ago while serving as an officer of the National Association of Retail Druggists (NARD), I met Joe Oddis at a Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners (JCPP) meeting. My first impression was totally positive. Joe was the most impressive person in the room, an obvious leader with quiet elegance and dignity. This first impression was reinforced over the many years that followed. After becoming the CEO of NARD, I saw Joe at the quarterly JCPP meetings and at various national pharmacy meetings during the year. A particularly fond memory is being with Joe at the “unofficial” gathering that typically followed a formal JCPP meeting. I learned a lot about being the CEO of a national association from Joe, mostly by observing how he handled issues and how he conducted himself in all situations. Always with honor and grace. He was certainly a leader to emulate. I learned a lot about being the CEO of a national association from Joe, mostly by observing how he handled issues and how he conducted himself in all situations. Always with honor and grace. He was certainly a leader to emulate. Our issues were different. NARD was created in 1898 to represent the economic interests of independent community pharmacists, quite different from ASHP’s focus. But Joe and I shared interests when it came to the pharmacist’s role in healthcare. On most pharmacy issues of the day, such as the PharmD as the sole entry-level degree for pharmacy practice, we could find common ground. There were some issues where this was not the case, such as President Clinton’s healthcare reform initiative. While we each had to do what our boards thought best on this issue, and we had to work in different coalitions, it did not affect our friendship or regard for each other. Joe was passionate about enhancing the role of the pharmacist in all settings, and in my opinion the enhanced role of the hospital pharmacist today is a result of his vision. No one did a better job of representing the interests of their members than Joe Oddis. I have fond memories of the times we spent together on business and professional issues and the times we spent socializing. My wife Becky and I enjoyed Joe and Jeanne as dinner companions. We could find time to dine together when we were “off duty” at home and also at national pharmacy meetings. One particular personal moment stands out in my memory. When we were in the process of moving to the Washington, D.C., area in 1984, my wife and youngest daughter, Amy, who was 15 at the time, were with me in the Atlanta airport before my flight to Washington. Joe happened to be ticketed for the same flight. This was the first time he had met any of my family. His graciousness at that moment is still remembered today by Amy. That’s how Joe was: kind, gracious, and memorable. My regard for Joe was such that I chose to have lunch with him on my last day at NARD. I would be moving back home to Arkansas the next day. After we both retired, we kept up with each other over the years. It was always a good day when I talked to Joe. Joe was a legend, and I will miss him as will many others, but as my late Arkansas friend, the author and historian Dee Brown, said, “The whirlwind of time cannot be spun in reverse.” I wish that were not true. Charles M. West, BSPharm, ScD (Hon), served as CEO of the National Association of Retail Druggists, 1984-96. He owned an independent community pharmacy for 31 years and is now retired and living in Arkansas. Marvin Samson Even though I was physically taller than Joe Oddis, his role in the evolution of institutional pharmacy practice made him a giant in my mind. So, I must confess that when I first met Joe in the early 1970s, I was terrified. Sister Gonzales, a true leader in her own right, made the introduction, and as a young entrepreneur leading a generic injectables company, I was in awe of this man who had the vision and leadership to take the practice of hospital pharmacy out of the basement. Angeles Arrien wrote, “The visionary is the one who brings his or her voice into the world and who refuses to edit, rehearse, or hide. It is the visionary who knows that the power of creativity is aligned with authenticity.” This quote, most certainly, describes Joe. He saw pharmacists not as technicians who merely carried out orders. He saw pharmacists as important members of the healthcare team, with the knowledge and expertise to provide patients with the level of care they deserve. And what he envisioned he turned into reality through his leadership at ASHP—mentoring, creating training programs and residencies, celebrating the successes of health-system pharmacists, and developing strategies to enhance the practice well into the future. Joe’s role in the proliferation of pharmacy and therapeutics committees in institutions throughout the country cannot be overstated, and these committees provided the means for generic companies, such as mine, to grow, even before anti-substitution laws were repealed in each of the 50 states. Joe Oddis devoted his life to elevating the stature of the profession he loved to its rightful place. His accomplishments were the result of his clear image for the future, his ability to communicate and motivate others to share his excitement, and his incredible business acumen. Over the many years of our relationship, my initial terror faded but the feeling of awe and respect for Joe never diminished for a moment, and I am forever grateful to have counted him among my colleagues and, more importantly, among my friends. Marvin Samson, BS (Chemistry), DSc (Hon), is Chief Executive Officer, Samson Medical Technologies, LLC. Harold E. Chappelear The British poet William Ernest Henley, in his well-known poem “Invictus,” wrote: Joseph Oddis was a man of distinction who served a greater power, a power that guided him to reason well. On the strength of that obedience, he was the master of his fate and the captain of his soul. He pursued a life above reproach—one that loved what is good, hospitable, sensible, and self-controlled. He was a man of reason, and his manner drove a shaft of truth into the hearts of those who were close to him. He was alive with ideas of possibilities and a visionary leader who strengthened and transformed ASHP into a major force devoted to advancing the pharmacy profession around the world. I share my memories of Joe as I sit seven stories above the sandy beach that marks the eastern shore of the United States and the beginning of the Atlantic Ocean. As the hustle and bustle of the day begin, the beach is quiet and the sea is calm, and the view brings about a sense of safety, comfort, and respect for nature. This was the same sense I always had when in Joe’s presence, whether in a one-on-one conversation or in groups that he led. His grounding presence inspired in me a genuine desire to contribute to the success of his goals in whatever manner I could. My time with Joe did not end with his retirement. In addition to occasional phone conversations, Steve Allen and I (and occasionally another person) continued to be his luncheon guests at the Bethesda Country Club, where he willingly shared the wisdom of his experience and opined on critical issues of the day. I became acquainted with Joe through my late friend and boss, Reed Peterson, who was then Vice President of Sales and Marketing for The Upjohn Company (now Pfizer). Reed had been invited to serve on the Board of Directors of the ASHP Foundation. As he became more familiar with Joe, as well as ASHP and its vision, Reed shared that knowledge with me, and I became highly interested in the Foundation as it paralleled my regard for the profession and its future. From my perspective, if the Foundation was good for the pharmacy profession, then it would be good for the pharmaceutical industry. When Reed retired, I was invited to serve on the Foundation Board. As a Board member, I shared Reed’s and our company’s commitment to the Society and its Foundation. We provided financial support for the Midyear Clinical Meeting and other support for a variety of events that took place throughout the year. During my tenure as a member of the Foundation’s Board, Joe was the first American to become President of the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP). In this capacity, he wanted to raise funding to support a variety of innovative projects that would help grow the Federation. Thus, on a Thursday morning around 0930, my phone rang. The voice said, “Good morning, Hal, this is Joe.” I recognized his distinctive voice immediately, and after very few pleasantries—he didn’t seem to waste words on a phone call—he said, “I need to raise one million dollars for FIP. Will you help me?” The straightforwardness of his request shocked me. Nevertheless, this conversation led to a significant commitment by my company, as well as phoning my friends in other companies who agreed to match our pledge, Joe phoning his friends to match our efforts, and my taking a trip to Italy, Germany, France, and England seeking additional matches. At Joe’s request and through his efforts, we raised one million dollars for FIP. My time with Joe did not end with his retirement. In addition to occasional phone conversations, Steve Allen and I (and occasionally another person) continued to be his luncheon guests at the Bethesda Country Club, where he willingly shared the wisdom of his experience and opined on critical issues of the day. All of the effort The Upjohn Company and its personnel made in support of the profession of pharmacy, by way of ASHP, was a direct result of Joe Oddis. My association with him was personal and professional, one of mutual respect and influence with a central focus—appreciating the importance of truth and goodness in relationships, thus advancing the cause of the profession of pharmacy. I miss him! Harold E. Chappelear, BSPharm, LLD (Hon), is Principal, InternaSource, LLC. He concluded his 30-year career at The Upjohn Company in 1992. T. Sue Gladhill One of the highest honors of my career was the privilege to work with Joseph A. Oddis. He was in the first class of board members for the University of Maryland Baltimore Foundation, elected to represent the interests of the School of Pharmacy. The most outstanding quality that Joe brought to the table was that he was a true gentleman. Always. For me, Joe was a “go-to” guy. He had experience in all things we needed to accomplish. His wisdom and knowledge were extraordinary. Given that it was a new foundation, there was significant planning to do and decisions to make to advance our interests and assist in meeting the fundraising, public relations, and government-relations needs of the University. For me, Joe was a “go-to” guy. He had experience in all things we needed to accomplish. His wisdom and knowledge were extraordinary. He was a quiet board member, but when he chose to weigh in on an issue, everyone listened because all knew that his input was meaningful. As a board member he was engaged, involved, and loyal. He was readily available and responsive when called upon to complete a task or attend a meeting or event. I always enjoyed talking to him when I needed direction or advice. Leading the Foundation was new to me, so I was eager to learn from him. Once we both retired, it was a treat for me to run into Joe at our mutual auto dealership. We passed many hours chatting while we waited for our cars to be serviced. We must have been on the same schedule because we had the opportunity to visit on several occasions. It was fun to maintain my contact with him. Just as in other dimensions of his life, Joe left the University of Maryland Baltimore Foundation with an impressive legacy. T. Sue Gladhill retired in 2012 as Vice President for External Affairs and the founding President and CEO of the University of Maryland Baltimore Foundation. Melissa Murer Corrigan I first met Dr. Oddis on a visit to ASHP headquarters when I was the APhA Executive Resident in Association Management. Our paths soon crossed again around the founding of the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board in 1994. Dr. Oddis was the first chair of the PTCB Board of Governors, and I served as the founding Executive Director/CEO of this national program for certifying pharmacy technicians. Reflecting the longstanding work of technicians in hospital pharmacy departments, ASHP had been engaged in many initiatives designed to formalize the technician’s role, including the establishment of an accreditation program for pharmacy technician training in 1982. Dr. Oddis told me that it had often been prudent not to talk too much about those early efforts because some pharmacists and organizational leaders were vehemently opposed to the use and recognition of technicians. The first meeting of the PTCB Certification Council (the group that created the certification examination) occurred during the ASHP Midyear Clinical Meeting in Miami Beach in December 1994. After one of our long days of work, I ran into Dr. Oddis and he invited me to join him for a chat so he could catch up with PTCB developments. Along with all the positive reports on our progress, I mentioned some of the roadblocks and the pharmacy politics that were challenging to navigate. I was impressed that in the midst of a major ASHP meeting, Dr. Oddis was so generous with his time. After listening intently, he shared this golden advice: “There are little fires and big fires. Fight the big fires and let the little fires burn themselves out.” I have tried to apply this advice in my work and in my life in general. Dr. Oddis must be applauded for his deep commitment to diversity in our profession, an important facet of his leadership. This point sometimes comes up in my interviews of women leaders for my MelisRxScripts podcast. Recently, in a discussion of pharmacy leadership with ASHP Past President Jannet Carmichael, she noted that “no discussion of pharmacy in general would be complete without a discussion of Dr. Oddis.” She reflected on his effective leadership style, noting the time he spent listening, his persuasiveness, and his persistence. Dr. Oddis was so generous with his time. After listening intently, he shared this golden advice: “There are little fires and big fires. Fight the big fires and let the little fires burn themselves out.” Today, as I mentor student pharmacists, pharmacy residents, and other pharmacists early in their careers, I draw on the many lessons I learned from Dr. Oddis. His legacy lives on through the lives of many others. Melissa Murer Corrigan, BPharm, FAPhA, FASHP, is host of the MelisRxScripts podcast; she served as Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board, 1994-2011. REPRISE Remington Honor Medal Lecture The Remington Honor Medal, widely considered pharmacy’s highest honor, was awarded to Joseph Oddis in 1990. Established in 1918 in honor of Joseph Remington, the award recognizes “distinguished service on behalf of American pharmacy during the preceding year, culminating in the past year, or during a long period of outstanding activity or fruitful achievement.” The Remington Medalist generally delivers a lecture at the annual meeting of the American Pharmacists Association. In his lecture, Dr. Oddis commented on how he was attracted to pharmacy by the charisma, dignity, and strength of character of Dr. Hugh C. Muldoon, Dean of the Duquesne University School of Pharmacy. When Dr. Muldoon received the Remington Medal in 1953, he lectured on the reasons for optimism about the continuing strength of pharmacy. In moving that theme 37 years forward, Dr. Oddis alluded to contemporary events and issues, including the fall of the Berlin Wall, the push for a single entry-level degree in pharmacy, and the work of the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners—aligning his thoughts with Dr. Muldoon’s characterization of the pharmacist “as the conscientious guardian of the health of the people.” Revisiting “The Strengths of Pharmacy” Joseph A. Oddis Originally published in Oddis JA. Revisiting “The Strengths of Pharmacy”: The 1953 Remington Medal Address. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1990; 47:1985–9. Here it is—we’ve just entered a new decade, and already I have to wonder. Is there any professional experience that can top this? No, that’s highly unlikely. Of all the activities in which the Remington Medalist participates, this luncheon address is one I’ve been looking forward to with, particular enthusiasm, for I knew that many who would be in this room number among the most important people in my life. When you think about what you want to say to friends, loved ones, and close colleagues on an occasion like this, you tend to get a bit philosophical—yes, and a bit nostalgic, too. I hope you’ll be indulgent as I share with you some of the thoughts and memories that this great honor has awakened in me. First, a few memories. The year is 1945. World War II is winding down. I’m finishing high school in Muse, Pennsylvania, and I visit Duquesne University, accompanied by a local priest who is a loyal alumnus. I’m visiting Duquesne to learn about the school of music, but an unplanned encounter with Hugh Muldoon, the dean of the school of pharmacy, leaves me so impressed that I determine then and there to study under him. It’s now 1946. I’m a freshman at Duquesne, and I bump into Sister Gonzales, a childhood Sunday school teacher of mine and now a fellow pharmacy student who is two years ahead of me. From this reacquaintance comes an invitation to work in the pharmacy at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh, which I do during my four years of school. So, as you can see, one coincidence led to my entry into pharmacy school, and a second one introduced me to institutional practice. Now, one more memory. The year is 1953. I am recently back from the Army, working as a pharmacist at Mercy Hospital, and Dean Muldoon has just received the Remington Medal. With much pride, I head over to Duquesne to hear an encore presentation of his Remington address, which he gave earlier in New York. This was the first of many Remington addresses that I would be privileged to hear in the years that followed. Those are some of the recollections, the images, that have occupied my memory lately. Somehow, it’s now 1990—the “nineties” still has a strange ring to it, doesn’t it?—and here I am, following in Dean Muldoon’s footsteps. How much my life has changed since those days in Pittsburgh. But how great an honor it is to receive the same award as did my early mentor. Recently I put my hands on Dean Muldoon’s Remington Medal address. Entitled “The Strengths of Pharmacy,” it has the same eloquence, grace, and clarity as the man himself. Remarkably, much of what it says about pharmacy is as relevant in 1990 as it was in 1953. In fact, in its declaration of pharmacy’s collective values, it may be a timeless statement about our profession’s strengths. Speaking, as he was, during the depths of the Cold War, he said this about his era’s young pharmacists, of which I was one: “They are not unrealistic idealists. They desire only what we are confident they will have—an opportunity to earn in a fear-free democracy a modest living for themselves and their families, practicing worthily the profession for which they have been trained.” Certainly, American pharmacists of my generation have been so blessed. And now, thanks to recent events, perhaps the next generation of Eastern European pharmacists will be equally blessed. Today the West rejoices as the Cold War’s bleak chill gives way to democracy’s warming potentialities. We rejoice as the freedoms that we almost take for granted are won, tortuously, one country at a time. May the people of Eastern Europe and elsewhere around the world speedily obtain what Dean Muldoon held dear for us: the opportunity to make a living in security and freedom. I believe that pharmacists share a passion for continual improvement—improvement in their practice skills and in the systems through which they deliver pharmaceutical care...In one way or another, pharmacists are looking for ways to maximize their value to their patients, to their health-care colleagues, and to their communities. The dean concluded his address by stating, simply and confidently, that pharmacy is strong. He predicted that it would continue to be strong for five reasons: Because of pharmacists’ character and motivation, Because of public trust based on age-old, faithful, andintelligent service, Because of the profession’s respect for education, Because of pharmacy’s awareness of its problems andits willingness to face them, and Because of pharmacy’s deep concern for the future. The dean’s conclusions—in essence, his five bases for optimism in the profession we’ve inherited—led me to my own ruminations about the strengths of pharmacy today. For the next few minutes, let’s see how American pharmacy in 1990 stacks up against Dean Muldoon’s five criteria. Character and Motivation of Pharmacists First, Dean Muldoon praised pharmacists’ character and motivation. If I were allowed only one reason to explain why I, too, am optimistic about our profession’s future, it would be because of the men and women who people our profession. I believe that pharmacists share a passion for continual improvement—improvement in their practice skills and in the systems through which they deliver pharmaceutical care. Throughout America, pharmacists are fighting to raise the level of services provided in all practice settings. In one way or another, pharmacists are looking for ways to maximize their value to their patients, to their health-care colleagues, and to their communities. This is to our profession’s great credit. So I wholeheartedly agree with Dean Muldoon that pharmacists’ character and motivation augur a strong future for the profession. Public Trust Next, we turn to the dean’s perception that pharmacy enjoys the public trust. I am sure you have all noted Gallup polls of recent years in which pharmacists were found to be America’s most honest professional—more so than teachers, lawyers, physicians, even members of the clergy. This, no doubt, is partly a result of the positive attributes of pharmacists that I just mentioned and partly a result of public disillusionment with those other professionals. But, to be frank, isn’t the pharmacist’s high standing largely a reflection of the public’s low expectations of us—of what we should offer them as health professionals? Are we really doing enough to justify the public’s trust? Or, to pose a more fundamental question: Are we helping people make the best use of their medications? I’m afraid that indicators such as the high incidence of adverse drug reactions and poor patient compliance suggest that we still have a way to go to live up to a number-one ranking with the public. There is a way, however, for us to justify Americans’ high opinion of us, and that is to channel our knowledge into patient care. There is a way for us to hold onto our patients’ high opinion of us, and that is to let go of traditional methods of practice that squander our skills and to embrace opportunities that the changing health-care scene provides. Let me give you one example: managed care. With today’s cost-containment pressures, community pharmacists are increasingly being brought into the nation’s proliferating managed-care systems. This is a tremendous opportunity for these practitioners to broaden pharmaceutical services beyond the dispensing of prescriptions. There is a way for us to hold onto our patients’ high opinion of us, and that is to let go of traditional methods of practice that squander our skills and to embrace opportunities that the changing health-care scene provides. Individual pharmacists can offer to perform drug-use reviews for health-plan administrators and to provide patient consultations as a plan benefit. They can offer to help a health plan’s medical staff develop a formulary. In concert with the medical staff, they can develop policies and procedures for ensuring the quality of drug therapy. Providing such services is within our grasp—today. It is in providing such services that we can preserve the trust Americans have in their pharmacists. Education The third strength mentioned by Dean Muldoon was pharmacy’s respect for education. In what is an interesting coincidence, he referred to a debate then under way about whether to extend pharmacy education in all colleges from four to five years; some colleges, he noted, already had five- and six-year programs. An echo of that earlier topic now reverberates throughout the profession. The question of the moment is, Should the American Council on Pharmaceutical Education (ACPE) revise its accreditation standards to focus on the doctor of pharmacy (Pharm.D.) as the only professional-degree program? This is bound to be one of pharmacy’s most prominent issues in the nineties, and that is well and good. For pharmacy education is the foundation on which strong pharmaceutical services are built. We in the nineties are every bit as certain of that proposition as was my dean in the fifties. Perhaps a difference is that, today, we need to consider education in the context of pharmacy work force needs as a whole, including the issues of technical personnel and specialization. As a corollary to our reassessment of pharmacy education, we need to study the most appropriate way of regulating pharmacy practice for the future. It should be unnecessary for state boards of pharmacy to be highly prescriptive about the manner in which pharmacies provide services. Instead, a state board’s focus should be on the outcome of those services. ACPE is embarking on a crucial mission for our profession—an exploration to determine the appropriate educational standards for practice in the twenty-first century. In the months of discussion that lie ahead, I urge all sectors of pharmacy to participate in a spirit of cooperation, open-mindedness, and objectivity. And after we have all had our say, I urge the profession to base its decision on an image of the role pharmacy should be fulfilling for society. Willingness to Face the Profession’s Problems The Pharm.D. issue is only one among many major challenges facing the profession as it heads into the twenty-first century. You’ll recall that Dean Muldoon found strength in pharmacy’s awareness of its problems and its willingness to face them. How does pharmacy today compare on this score with the profession in the fifties? Very well indeed, I believe. In today’s increasingly complex health-care environment, simply keeping tabs on pharmacy’s problems is no mean feat. Today, we need to consider education in the context of pharmacy work force needs as a whole, including the issues of technical personnel and specialization. As a corollary to our reassessment of pharmacy education, we need to study the most appropriate way of regulating pharmacy practice for the future. It should be unnecessary for state boards of pharmacy to be highly prescriptive about the manner in which pharmacies provide services. Instead, a state board’s focus should be on the outcome of those services. Consider the broad range of functions performed by today’s pharmacists in this rapidly changing environment, and you begin to appreciate why Dean Muldoon saw the ability to confront problems as an important measure of pharmacy’s strength. You also begin to appreciate the need for pharmacy to address its problems systematically and strategically. That’s one of the things the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners (JCPP) helps us do. Pharmacy took an important leap forward when JCPP came into being 13 years ago. This group, which embraces all sectors of the profession through pharmacists’ national organizations, provides a forum for the profession as a whole to discuss issues large and small. With JCPP, when unanimity is not reached, understanding is still advanced. When professional interests are threatened, pharmacy speaks with one voice and achieves strength through unity. Concern for the Future Finally, said Dean Muldoon back in 1953, pharmacy will remain strong because of its deep concern for the future. Can anyone doubt that pharmacy in the nineties takes its future very seriously? Somehow, despite a history that may extend back as far as ancient Babylonia, contemporary pharmacy is anxiously planning for its future. For example, in 1985 and again last October, members of all sectors of the profession looked the future square in the eye at a conference called Pharmacy in the 21st Century. The purpose of this conference was to identify critical issues the profession will have to wrestle with as it positions itself over the next 15 to 20 years. The basis for the meeting was a belief that the same set of factors will influence each facet of the profession, to one degree or another, in the years ahead. Participants at the 1989 meeting scored the importance of 112 issue statements that grew out of workshop sessions. Receiving almost unanimous agreement and the highest score was this statement: “There is a need for pharmacy to actively demonstrate and communicate its value in health care.” If Dean Muldoon had been in attendance, I’m certain he would have agreed strongly with this statement, for he actually anticipated it in his Remington remarks of 1953. He said, “Many think of the pharmacist only as a businessman, not as the conscientious guardian of the health of the people he really is. It is time to turn the full beam of the spotlight of public attention on pharmacy.” The dean then emphasized— and here I paraphrase—that informing the public about what we do is not a one- or two-day task, but a multiyear process. As you and I well know, this is a process that continues to this day— and so it should, indefinitely. Only when we convey to the public, and only when we convey to other health professionals, our value in health care, will pharmacy manifest the strength many in this room have fought hard to build. But have no doubt: That time will come. Meanwhile, we in pharmacy can be genuinely glad that there is—as someone once put it—“enough work to do, and strength enough to do the work.” THE ODDIS QUILT Description of Joseph Oddis Quilt Project Originally published in Am J Health-Syst Pharm. 1997; 19:2158. The idea of creating a quilt to commemorate the tenure of Joseph Oddis at ASHP arose in 1996. Louise Barker and Sally Kabat, who both have strong connections to pharmacy, wanted to recognize affiliated state societies, pharmacists, technicians, practitioners, educators, spouses, and friends of the profession. Quilting has been a common thread in Louise and Sally’s long friendship, so the idea of a commemorative quilt was born. The concept was presented to the ASHP staff, and in a short time the project was under way. Two quilts would be made—one for display at ASHP headquarters in Bethesda, Maryland, and one for the Oddis family. On August 30, 1996, all affiliated state society officers and presidents were sent requests for squares to be included in the quilts. The response was immediate, and the quilt tops began to take form. Some contributions were in the traditional patterns of state squares, whereas other quilters provided squares that expressed the essence of their state or of pharmacy. Each completed quilt contains 56 squares and measures 86 x 98 inches. All states and Canada are represented, and nearly 100 volunteers participated in the project. Louise and Sally each assembled and hand quilted one of the quilts. The completed quilts were included in the ASHP exhibit at the 1997 Annual Meeting in Minneapolis, where some of the contributors saw for the first time their handiwork combined with that of others. Many attendees came to see the quilts, to photograph them, and to talk about the significance of this grassroots expression—which involved nearly 100 volunteers— of admiration and affection for Joseph Oddis. The family quilt was presented to the Oddis family on June 27, 1997, at an ASHP staff banquet honoring Dr. Oddis. Memories and Reflections of the Quilters Sally Kabat, one of the two individuals who spearheaded the Oddis Quilt project, continues as an active quilter, now living in Portland, Oregon. Her partner in the project, Louise Barker, passed away in 2017. Back in 1996–97, Sally was Executive Secretary of the New Mexico Society of Health-System Pharmacists. Sally reports that she and Louise, the wives of two well-known pharmacy academics (Hugh Kabat and Kenneth Barker), met at a pharmacy meeting and became fast friends through a shared passion for quilting. Sally remembers that they conceptualized the Oddis Quilt as a way for rank-and-file hospital pharmacists to show their appreciation for the leadership of Joseph Oddis. Sally said they initially planned for just one quilt, to be given to ASHP, and they had to scramble to expand the project when they recognized the desirability of presenting another version of the quilt to Dr. Oddis himself. In the category of “other duties as assigned,” Teri Miller, the CEO of the California Society at the time, took on the job of creating the quilt blocks for her state. As she explained recently, “I happen to have needlepoint and other sewing skills, which I was able to adapt to create our quilt squares.” Kathleen Donley recalls that she was the only member of the board of the Ohio Society who knew how to quilt, so guess who took on the assignment. She also remembers searching for a pattern to represent her state, finally selecting the Ohio buckeye. Janet Silvester was on the board of the Virginia Society when ASHP broadcast the request for state participation in quilt creation. She said she volunteered for the project because her mother was an avid quilter and would be willing to help her. Janet commented, “Mom made sure my sisters and I could sew, and I was honored to represent Virginia in creating something special for Joe.” ASHP’s staff liaison for the project, Julie Webb, a quilter herself, commented on how she sees the quilts as a metaphor for the life of Dr. Oddis: “Quilting involves piecing together patchwork squares in a way that tells a story. Dr. Oddis was full of stories, each contributing to the narrative of his life. Layers of fabric are stitched together in a quilt to make it durable for generations, just like the tightly connected parts of Dr. Oddis’s legacy. Each square of a quilt can be quite simple, and the joining of all the squares creates a work of art appreciated in different ways by many, including those who use the quilt for warmth and comfort. The traits and habits of Dr. Oddis, when considered singly, can seem quite simple, but he stitched them together with a depth of character that made him an extraordinary person who will long be remembered by those who experienced his warmth and comfort.” REMEMBRANCES: International Colleagues Dieter Steinbach It was with great sadness that I took note of the passing of my long-time friend Joseph Oddis. He was a wonderful human being, and it was always a pleasure to be with him. The first time I met Joe was 1981 in Vienna when he represented ASHP in FIP´s Council together with ASHP President Marianne Ivey. The last time I had the pleasure of being with Joe was in 2012 during FIP´s centennial anniversary in Amsterdam. At that 2012 congress, Joe and I donated to FIP a special insignia to be worn by the current president. Over this 30-year period, we met frequently during FIP functions and also privately in Bethesda and Frankfurt. I recall when my wife Karin and I, together with Joe and his late wife Jeanne, visited the U.S. Army Hospital in Landstuhl, Germany, where Joe and Jeanne first met in 1952. As FIP’s Congress Coordinator during the years when Joe was President and Past President, I saw firsthand that he was a visionary person who was driven to get things done. One of his initiatives was to create a development fund that allowed FIP to purchase its own headquarters building and hire a full-time secretary general. Joe’s vision for pharmacy practice was inspiring to many pharmacists around the world. Through his gentlemanly manner, he fostered the exchange of ideas about the potential for the pharmacy profession to enhance its service to the public. Joe Oddis was a true friend, and I am grateful that we had an opportunity to work together in advancing our profession. Dr. Dieter Steinbach is an FIP Honorary President and an ASHP Honorary Member. He lives in Bad Homburg, Germany. Douwe D. Breimer I was sad to learn of Joe Oddis’s passing. My term as Scientific Secretary of FIP was from 1978 till 1989, so I experienced Joe as FIP’s President during 3 years (1986–89). Joe was a wonderful person to work with. He was inspiring and had a strong vision on the great value of international collaboration within the pharmacy profession and the necessity to advance the pharmaceutical sciences in their own right. At the same time he felt very strongly about keeping the profession and the sciences together under the same umbrella of FIP and to stimulate interactions for the mutual benefit of both. He chaired the meetings of the FIP Executive Committee very efficiently and on many occasions I heard him say, “Let us move forward and make this happen!” He wanted to achieve things by convincing argumentation. He was authoritative, in the good sense of the word, but had sufficient patience and wisdom to know that things take time to happen, especially in an international context. I knew him to be a true gentleman at all times, during meetings but also in free time after a meeting when he sipped his bourbon whiskey and started to smoke a fine cigar. Our meetings were mostly on weekends, and on Sunday afternoons Joe would always break out to go to Mass at a nearby Catholic church. I will remember Joe with great gratitude for having had the privilege of working with him. Douwe D. Breimer, PhD, DSc (Hon), is Emeritus Professor of Pharmacology, Past Rector Magnificus, and Past President of the Executive Board of Leiden University, The Netherlands. Kamal K. Midha and Daan J. A. Crommelin We worked with Joseph Oddis in the years that he was President and Past President of the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP): 1986–94. During that period the FIP celebrated its 75th anniversary. Joe Oddis’s election was historic in that previously all FIP presidents had come from Europe. Joe came to the FIP presidency as the seasoned executive leader of ASHP, a highly successful professional association. FIP and ASHP continue to benefit to this day from his forward-looking strategic thinking. During his term as FIP President, many fundamental changes took shape or were prepared for implementation by his successors. In his eyes, FIP should have a full-time CEO and its own headquarters building instead of being housed in the facilities of the Royal Dutch Pharmacists Association. The FIP Foundation for Education and Research was initiated under Joe’s leadership with starting capital contributed by ASHP. From our perspectives, as Chair of the FIP Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences (BPS) and Scientific Secretary of FIP, Joe understood the need to give the BPS more operational freedom than it had in the past. There had been heated discussions among pharmaceutical scientists worldwide about whether to stay in the FIP or to start an independent organization. Joe knew that in his own country a major group of scientists left APhA and founded the American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists, and he took lessons from that history. He, as well as his successor, Nils-Olof Strandqvist, and others supported the BPS leadership in building a structure for the scientists in FIP that on the one hand gave them freedom to operate and on the other hand ensured cross-fertilization between the profession and science. Joe was the right man at the right time to facilitate these changes. His extensive experience in working with pharmaceutical professionals and guiding them in pursuit of agreed-upon goals, his excellent social skills, his even-tempered nature, and his ability to build bridges in a complex, multicultural organization such as FIP made his presidency a success. In 2011, FIP created the Joseph A. Oddis Award for Exceptional Service to FIP in recognition of the great contributions of this gentleman and colleague. He was a man with many excellent qualities and a human being to be remembered as a role model for future generations of pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists. Kamal K. Midha, PhD, ScD, CM, Honorary President of FIP, was Chair of the FIP Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 1988–96, and FIP President, 2006–10. Daan J. A. Crommelin, PhD, was FIP Scientific Secretary, 1989–95, and Chair of the FIP Board of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2004–08. One of the characteristics of your approach has been a great understanding of the mechanisms of an organization that assembles pharmacists from other countries and who, automatically, bring along with them a tremendous variety of cultural patterns. You understand that people from other horizons think along different lines and, sometimes, react differently, and this makes you a good listener. Coupled with your vast experience as a manager in pharmacy, this could not fail to make many friends for you, and I am proud to be one of them. L. G. Felix-Faure, Administrative Director, FIP Atsuhiko (Art) Nishitani I studied in the clinical pharmacy program under Herbert L. Flack and John A. Gans at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science and the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in 1971–72. I met Dr. Oddis for the first time in Boston in 1972 when I participated in the ASHP Institute on General Practice of Hospital Pharmacy. That same year, Dr. Flack arranged for me to visit the Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health and ASHP offices in Bethesda, Maryland. I became very interested in the functions and publications of ASHP. Since 1972, I have introduced the practice standards, guidelines, and patient-oriented continuing education programs of ASHP to Japanese pharmacists through the Journal of Japanese Society of Hospital Pharmacists. I became the editor of this journal in 1985 (and still serve in that capacity) after working for several years on a Japanese Society committee in charge of international affairs. During these activities, I had numerous opportunities to consult with Dr. Oddis, and we developed a strong professional and personal relationship. Dr. Oddis interrupted his summer vacation to meet with me during my third visit to ASHP in 1991. Dr. Oddis came to Japan on three occasions for meetings with Japanese health authorities and pharmacy leaders. His first visit was to Fukuoka in March 1971 for the Congress of the Pharmaceutical Society of Japan. He attended the 1993 Tokyo Congress of the International Pharmaceutical Federation. At the closing banquet, he danced with his wife, which was very remarkable to us because Japanese pharmacists generally attend professional meetings without their spouses and are not used to dancing at banquets. During Dr. Oddis’s third visit to Japan in June 1997, he attended the general meeting of the Japanese Society of Hospital Pharmacists in Tokyo. When ASHP changed its name to the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists in 1995, Dr. Oddis knew that this would require some explanation to hospital pharmacy organizations around the world, so he wrote to the leaders of those groups. I translated his letter into Japanese and published it in our journal. Hospital pharmacists in my country admired Dr. Oddis and the work of ASHP, which influenced us to increase our education for this area of pharmacy practice. We now require that pharmacy graduates have some hospital pharmacy experience, and 50% of the examination for licensure concerns hospital pharmacy practice. Dr. Oddis had communications with officials of our Ministry of Health, allowing them to be well informed about important facets of the expanding role of pharmacists in the United States. I am thankful for the personal friendship and professional guidance of Dr. Oddis. When his retirement from ASHP was announced, I wrote in a message to him, “We have noted your professional retirement; however, our relationship as friends will not retire. My wife and I eagerly await meeting you again. We are thinking that you might have a different role then, perhaps as a dance instructor!” My wife and I visited ASHP headquarters in October 2019—the seventh time for me. We were delighted to have an opportunity to dine with Dr. Oddis and Dr. Paul Abramo-witz, the CEO of ASHP, during that visit. We greatly treasure the photo we have from that evening. Atsuhiko (Art) Nishitani, PhD, retired from the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency of Japan in 2016. In addition to government service, his career has encompassed hospital pharmacy practice, pharmacy education, pharmaceutical research, and service to organizations in hospital pharmacy and pharmacy history. CHRONOLOGY Joseph A. Oddis (1928 & 2021) Personal Milestones, Professional Appointments, and Honors 1928 Born November 5 in Greensburg, Pennsylvania 1950 Bachelor of Science degree in pharmacy, Duquesne University 1950–51 Staff Pharmacist, Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh 1951–53 Serves in US Army, first at Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Denver, Colorado, and then in Landstuhl, Germany 1953–54 Assistant Director of Pharmacy, Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh 1954 Marries Jeanne Trevena 1954–56 Chief Pharmacist, Western Pennsylvania Hospital, Pittsburgh President, Western Pennsylvania Society of Hospital Pharmacists 1956–57 Member, ASHP Committee on Program and Public Relations 1956–60 Employed as hospital pharmacy staff representative, Council on Professional Practice, American Hospital Association, Chicago 1957 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) 1957–58 Vice President, Illinois Society of Hospital Pharmacists 1957–60 Committeeman-at-large, Pharmacy Section Committee and Council, AAAS 1960 Hired for the dual position of Director, APhA Division of Hospital Pharmacy, and Executive Secretary, ASHP 1960–80 Delegate, USP Convention 1961 Vice President and Chair, Pharmacy Section Committee and Council, AAAS 1962 Honorary Member, Kappa Psi Pharmaceutical Fraternity 1964–97 ASHP delegate to annual General Assemblies, International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP) 1968–70 Secretary, Pharmaceutical Sciences Section, AAAS 1970 ASHP Harvey A. K. Whitney Lecture Award Title of ASHP position changed to Executive Director 1971 Julius Sturmer Memorial Lecture Award, Alpha Tau Chapter, Rho Chi Society, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 1975 Honorary Doctor of Science degree, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy Honorary Doctor of Science degree, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 1976 Honorary Doctor of Science degree, Albany College of Pharmacy of Union University 1977 Howard C. Newton Lecture Award from Massachusetts College of Pharmacy Alumni Association 1977–78 Member, Board of Directors, American Society of Association Executives (ASAE) Foundation President, FIP Hospital Pharmacy Section 1978 Distinguished Alumnus Award, Duquesne University School of Pharmacy Samuel W. Melendy Lecture Award, University of Minnesota College of Pharmacy 1979 Honorary Member, Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain 1980 Honorary Member, Israel Pharmaceutical Association Honorary Member, Michigan Society of Hospital Pharmacists 1982–83 Treasurer, Board of Directors, ASAE Foundation 1982–85 Secretary, National Council on Patient Information and Education 1983 APhA Hugo H. Schaefer Award Honorary Member, Louisiana Society of Hospital Pharmacists 1984 Reed and Alice Henniger Lecture Award, University of Illinois at Chicago College of Pharmacy 1984–85 Chair, Board of Directors, ASAE Foundation 1984–86 FIP Vice President 1984–91 Member, Board of Trustees, Pharmacists Against Drug Abuse 1985 Man of the Year Award, Pharmacists Planning Services Inc. Parke-Davis Distinguished Lecturer, Ferris State College Honored at ASHP Annual Meeting for 25 years of service to the Society 1985–97 Member, Board of Directors, National Council on Patient Information and Education Member, Pharmacy Service Advisory Committee, Department of Veterans Affairs 1986 ASHP Donald E. Francke Medal At-Large Governor, Health Industry Bar Code Council 1986–90 FIP President 1986–97 Member, Board of Governors, Health Industry Business Communications Council 1989 Honorary Doctor of Science degree, Duquesne University Honorary Member, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria 1990 APhA Remington Honor Medal 1991 Honorary Doctor of Human Letters, Long Island University Honorary Member, Phi Delta Chi 1994 FIP André Bédat Award 1996 Joseph A. Oddis Leadership Award established by Michigan Society of Health-System Pharmacists 1997 Retires as ASHP CEO 1998 Honorary Member, ASHP 2012 First recipient of Joseph A. Oddis Award for Exceptional Service to FIP 2013 ASHP headquarters building at 7272 Wisconsin Avenue in Bethesda, Maryland, named Joseph A. Oddis Building 2017 New ASHP headquarters offices at 4500 East West Highway in Bethesda named as ASHP Joseph A. Oddis Global Headquarters 2018 Named FIP Fellow This section of the Chronology was prepared by Kate Traynor. ASHP during the Oddis Years This selective chronology covers some key ASHP activities during the years of Joseph Oddis’s executive leadership. Other significant events in pharmacy, public health, and human history are also listed. The Oddis years at ASHP were characterized by numerous educational programs (Institutes and Workshops); an expansive publishing enterprise; dynamic accreditation programs for residencies and technician training; extended promulgation of practice standards; widened collaboration and liaison with healthcare associations; expanded public-policy advocacy; and many task forces, study groups, and invitational conferences designed to map a way forward on unsettled issues in the profession or in ASHP operations. Often, the ASHP Research and Education Foundation had collaborative or complementary educational and professional development activities. Only a sampling of all these wide-ranging activities is given here. ASHP activities appear in roman type. Other historical milestones appear in italics. Organizational abbreviations are spelled out at the end of the chronology. 1960 ASHP hires Joseph Oddis and begins transitioning from a largely volunteer-run association to professional management ASHP consolidates the dispersed editorial and production activities associated with the American Hospital Formulary Service ASHP and AHA approve two landmark policy documents on drug use in hospitals and the related role of pharmacists: Statement of Guiding Principles on the Operation of the Hospital Formulary System; Statement on the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee AMA raises concerns about the method of physician consent to use of the formulary system under the ASHP-AHA “Guiding Principles” statement Five-year curriculum for BS degree in pharmacy established as minimum for pharmacy practice 1961 ASHP and APhA mutually agree to dissolve the APhA Division of Hospital Pharmacy ASHP, APhA, and AHA conduct first Specialized Institute on Hospital Pharmacy, focused on hospital pharmacy administration, Chicago 1962 ASHP adopts new governing documents that stipulate membership election of officers and other members of the Board of Directors, and replacement of standing committees with policy-recommending councils ASHP and AACP Statement on the Abilities Required of Hospital Pharmacists ASHP conducts Specialized Conference on Hospital Pharmacy Internships, a prelude to accrediting pharmacy residencies ASHP membership totals 3,289, having grown from 153 members in the first year of its founding Drug information center established at University of Kentucky Medical Center Kefauver-Harris Amendment to Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; requires proof of a medicine’s effectiveness before marketing approval National Poison Prevention Week established through Joint Resolution of Congress and proclamation by President Kennedy Sabin oral polio vaccine introduced 1963 ASHP begins accrediting pharmacy residencies; 31 programs accredited the following year; no fees are charged for the accreditation process until 1977 AHFS subscriptions reach 15,000 AJHP operations move from Ann Arbor, Michigan, to ASHP headquarters Pioneering report by Kenneth Barker and William Heller (University of Arkansas) on centralized unit dose drug distribution in hospitals President John F. Kennedy assassinated 1964 ASHP, AHA, AMA, and APhA revise Statement of Guiding Principles on the Operation of the Hospital Formulary System; addresses previous concerns about the manner of operating the hospital formulary system ASHP publishes Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy, a comprehensive report on the federally funded Audit of Pharmaceutical Services in Hospitals; includes six goals for hospital pharmacists ASHP launches International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, a publication conceptualized by Donald E. Francke ASHP Special Conference on Drug Information Services, University of Kentucky Medical Center ASHP Special Conference on Hospital Pharmacy for Pharmaceutical Industry, an invitational program for industry sales managers and product managers, The Greenbrier Resort in West Virginia Pioneering report by Harold Black and William Tester (University of Iowa) on decentralized unit dose drug distribution Civil Rights Act of 1964 1965 ASHP Special Conference on Drug Distribution, attended by 300 hospital pharmacists, hospital administrators, and representatives of the drug, packaging, and equipment industries, in Washington, D.C.; success of this program led to establishment of the Midyear Clinical Meeting, including an exhibit program Medicare (Parts A and B) and Medicaid enacted 1966 ASHP moves its headquarters from the APhA building in Washington, D.C., to leased office space in Bethesda, Maryland ASHP launches a traineeship program for community pharmacists who serve extended care facilities ASHP Special Invitational Workshop on Parenteral Incompatibilities First ASHP Midyear Clinical Meeting, Washington, D.C.; attendance 250 Pioneering ninth floor satellite pharmacy project begins at University of California San Francisco Moffit Hospital 1967 ASHP conducts its first International Clinical Study Tour; Denmark and Sweden ASHP celebrates its 25th anniversary Concept of “drug-use control” articulated by Donald C. Brodie; serves as foundation for later concept of “pharmaceutical care” Pharmacy-Medicine-Nursing Conference on Health Education, University of Michigan, encourages pharmacy services to become patient-oriented The Lyndon Johnson Administration establishes the Task Force on Prescription Drugs to study prospect of Medicare coverage of outpatient drugs 1968 ASHP establishes Executive Residency in Association Management ASHP recommendations related to pharmacy services in hospitals and extended care facilities adopted by Medicare ASHP launches a drug-product computer-coding service (DFIF); provides a unique code for every drug product, dosage, and package size on the market ASHP conducts salary survey of hospital pharmacists (annual average for directors of pharmacy, $12,540) (~$96,000 in 2021 dollars) Attendance at the Midyear Clinical Meeting exceeds 1,000 AHA supports pharmacy service as an essential component of general and special hospitals Martin Luther King Jr. assassinated Robert F. Kennedy assassinated 1969 ASHP Research and Education Foundation established ASHP Nationwide Seminar on Unit Packaging of Pharmaceuticals ASHP Workshop on Subprofessional Personnel in Hospital Pharmacy Task Force on Prescription Drugs recommends training pharmacists as drug information specialists American Society of Consultant Pharmacists founded Apollo 11 lands first men on the moon 1970 ASHP amends its constitution to authorize an Economic Status Program, which includes assistance to affiliated chapters in collective bargaining activities ASHP and FDA jointly issue advice on handling i.v. solutions after reports of septicemia from the use of Abbott large-volume i.v. products Anaheim, California, hosts the Fifth Annual Midyear Clinical Meeting, the first time the meeting is held outside of the Washington, D.C., area Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 requires child-resistant packaging of medicines and other materials considered hazardous to children Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act 1971 ASHP and AACP Invitational Workshop on Clinical Education and Practice, Overland Park, Kansas ASHP, USP, and FDA establish a pilot drug product defect reporting program Federal legislation provides “capitation grants” for expanding school of pharmacy enrollment National Center for Health Services Research and Development report describes pharmacist’s clinical role 1972 ASHP adopts a state-affiliates system, discontinuing affiliation with local and regional societies ASHP forms Task Force on Clinical Education and Practice In a special session, ASHP House of Delegates removes Bylaws requirement that ASHP active members must be members of APhA U.S. Postal Service issues a commemorative stamp in honor of pharmacy 1973 ASHP Conference on Pharmacy Residency Training and Accreditation, Chicago ASHP Institute on Clinical Pharmacy Services, San Francisco AJHP Roundtable on Implementing Clinical Pharmacy Services First Donald E. Francke Medal awarded for international contributions to hospital pharmacy (Dr. Francke is the recipient) AACP appoints Study Commission on Pharmacy chaired by John S. Millis Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973 1974 ASHP advocates for AHFS as national compendium of drug information in lieu of proposed federal initiative ASHP joins AACP and ACPE in forming Task Force on Accreditation of Residency Programs in Pharmacy to explore accreditation of residencies in non-hospital settings ASHP Guidelines for Institutional Use of Controlled Substances approved by DEA and NABP ASHP creates Council on Clinical Pharmacy and Therapeutics ASHP creates Advisory Panel on Pharmacy Services in Mental Health Facilities ASHP creates Advisory Panel on Ambulatory Services ASHP conducts 11 regional Affiliated State Chapter Officer Conferences ASHP Foundation appoints first full-time Executive Vice President, George P. Provost, who resigned from his positions on the ASHP staff, including Associate Executive Director Mary Jo Reilly appointed ASHP Assistant Executive Director while retaining responsibilities with ASHP’s publications program Federal government requires pharmacist drug-regimen review in skilled nursing facilities APhA agrees to sell National Formulary to United States Pharmacopeial Convention President Richard M. Nixon resigns 1975 House of Delegates declares scope of ASHP to be pharmacy in “hospitals and similar organized healthcare settings” ASHP establishes Special Interest Groups to help serve the needs and interests of specialized practitioners ASHP Advanced Institute on Therapeutics First meeting of ASHP Task Force on Advanced Residency Training and Accreditation ASHP participates in Drug Spotlight Program, initiated by American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, designed to help hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees review and improve drug therapy ASHP Statement on Competencies Required in Institutional Pharmacy Practice; updates a document from 1962 ASHP and FDA reach agreement on joint pilot drug shortage alert system ASHP awarded FDA contract to develop class labeling for therapeutic categories of drugs; also, NLM contract for developing TOXNET database AACP-sponsored Millis Commission report criticizes “the system of pharmacy” for deficiencies in developing, organizing, and distributing knowledge and information about drugs USP, with federal grant, appoints National Coordinating Committee on Large Volume Parenterals to develop recommendations for production and administration of i.v. drug products Regulations issued on “maximum allowable cost” for drug-product reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid, and PHS programs General Accounting Office recommends implementation of unit dose drug distribution at all 171 VA hospitals National Academy of Sciences endorses generic prescribing Fall of Saigon, ending Vietnam War An estimated 400 pharmacists among the more than 130,000 Vietnamese refugees seeking sponsors for resettlement in the United States 1976 In a speech at Auburn University, Joseph Oddis proposes the creation of a Joint Commission on Pharmacy as a coordinating body for national pharmacy organizations ASHP publishes first national survey of hospital pharmacy practices since the 1964 Mirror to Hospital Pharmacy; forerunner of annual surveys ASHP Institute for Pharmacists in Mental Health Facilities ASHP Statement on Pharmacist-Conducted Patient Counseling The United States of America celebrates it bicentennial Federal legislation continues capitation grants for schools of pharmacy that provide “a training program in clinical pharmacy” US Supreme Court in “Abbott Laboratories et al. vs. Portland Retail Druggists Association” clarifies when drug manufacturers are allowed to sell products to nonprofit and nongovernment hospitals at prices lower than offered to community pharmacies National influenza immunization program against “swine flu” launched after legislation protects manufacturers from lawsuits FDA proposes stricter standards for the manufacturing of large-volume parenterals FDA launches drug shortage monitoring program 1977 ASHP represented on Joint Commission on Drug Use that aims to recommend improved postmarketing drug surveillance ASHP Board supports the PharmD as the single entry-level degree in pharmacy ASHP Commission on Credentialing oversees residency accreditation, previously a function of an ASHP council ASHP begins charging for residency accreditation site surveys ASHP drops reciprocal-membership requirement with affiliated state societies ASHP Institute on Training and Use of Pharmacy Technicians ASHP and other national pharmacy groups create the Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners FDA begins requiring bioequivalence data on selected drug products AACP delegates, in interim balloting, vote 90–71 in favor of existing two-degree system in pharmacist education 1978 ASHP advocates, at AACP workforce open hearing, for three-tier personnel structure: generalist, specialists with advanced training, and supportive technical personnel ASHP Competency Standard for Pharmacy Supportive Personnel in Organized Healthcare Settings ASHP launches Resident Matching Program ASHP creates membership category for supportive personnel ASHP repeatedly advocates for special consideration of single-unit packaging in maximum allowable cost limits for reimbursement ASHP appoints Task Force on Payment for Pharmacy Services ASHP conducts its first Legislative Day The Black Pharmacists of ASHP is formed at the 13th Annual ASHP Midyear Clinical Meeting in San Antonio; later, name changed to Association of Black Health-System Pharmacists AACP House of Delegates votes 107–58 in favor of maintaining the bachelor’s degree as minimum entry-level degree for pharmacy BPS recognizes nuclear pharmacy as the first specialty in pharmacy practice 1979 ASHP conducts Summer Seminar Week ASHP Board decides to end joint annual meetings with APhA starting in 1981 American College of Clinical Pharmacy founded In issuing 16 new payment limits for drugs, federal government exempts unit dose packaged forms of the products, a victory for ASHP advocacy Jere E. Goyan, PhD, Dean of UCSF School of Pharmacy, appointed FDA Commissioner 1980 ASHP restructures continuing education program into four national meetings in different parts of the country— Midyear Clinical Meeting, Summer Seminars, and two National Institute Weeks ASHP Task Force on Payment for Pharmacy Services issues final report ASHP issues accreditation standards for clinical and specialty residency programs ASHP Statement on the Provision of Pharmaceutical Services in Ambulatory Care Settings ASHP and AHA Statement on Clinical Pharmacy and Its Relationship to the Institution ASHP Practice Spotlight Program launched with initial year-long focus on i.v. admixture quality assurance Joint Commission on Prescription Drug Use calls for national center for drug surveillance FDA mandates patient package inserts for every drug product; inpatients exempted for most drugs NCI distributes delta-9 tetrahydocannabinol (THC) capsules through selected hospital pharmacies WHO declares smallpox eradicated 1981 ASHP approves Minimum Standard for Ambulatory Care Pharmacy Services ASHP Special Interest Groups, through the SIG Cabinet, gain role in policy development ASHP creates Council on Clinical Affairs ASHP conducts Regional Advisory Panels, forerunner of Regional Delegate Conferences ASHP conducts its first stand-alone Annual Meeting; more than 1,800 persons attend ASHP membership reaches 20,000 Responsibility for file maintenance and marketing of ASHP’s DPIF assumed by American Druggist Blue Book Data Center, a division of Hearst First report of illness cluster from what will later be termed AIDS President Ronald Reagan, by executive order, delays implementation of mandatory patient package inserts, pending further study 1982 ASHP launches a new journal, Clinical Pharmacy, responding to a 1979 call for such a journal by an ASHP council ASHP publishes Consumer Drug Digest ASHP begins developing Elements of Clinical Pharmacy Practice, consisting of 12 self-study modules ASHP opposes federal legislation to legalize heroin for medical use ASHP serves on executive committee of newly formed National Council on Patient Education and Information FDA formally rescinds its patient package inserts pilot program McNeil Pharmaceuticals recalls Tylenol products following package tampering that led to deaths 1983 ASHP accredits first technician training programs ASHP criticizes proposed Medicare conditions of participation for not reflecting the current state of hospital pharmacy practice ASHP delegates oppose use of “P.D.” (Pharmacy Doctor) designation for pharmacists Federal government establishes Medicare prospective reimbursement (fixed payments for diagnosis-related groups [DRGs]) for hospitals 1984 ASHP Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic Drugs in Hospitals ASHP conducts first Regional Delegate Conferences ASHP Foundation appoints Warren E. McConnell as Executive Vice President ASHP delegates and active members approve new governing documents; delineation of authority between the Board of Directors and House of Delegates clarified ASHP representatives participate in the first invitational Pharmacy in the 21st Century (P21) conference, Project HOPE Center, Millwood, Virginia AHFS-DI published as a single bound volume, departing from the 2-volume loose-leaf-binder format AHFS-DI and Handbook on Injectable Drugs become available as online searchable database APhA President William S. Apple dies at age 65; had led APhA since 1959 Waxman-Hatch Drug Price Competition and Patent Restoration Act NACDS drops out of JCPP 1985 ASHP “Hilton Head Conference” on Directions for Clinical Practice in Pharmacy ASHP approves accreditation standard for advanced residencies in hospital pharmacy administration ASHP releases “The Invisible Ingredient,” public information video geared toward improving understanding of the role of hospital pharmacists ASHP creates Federal Services Advisory Group ASHP Task Force on Active Member Definition issues final report ASHP Ad Hoc Commission on Pharmacy Services and Cost Containment issues report In testimony to Congress, Executive Vice President Oddis presents ASHP recommendations for curbing the “gray market” in pharmaceuticals Midyear Clinical Meeting attendance reaches 10,198 AACP delegates vote 75–56 for maintaining pharmacy’s dual entry-level degrees 1986 Members approve a new definition of “active member,” welcoming any licensed pharmacist who supports ASHP’s purposes ASHP affiliates in Pennsylvania, Florida, and California conduct follow-on conferences to Hilton Head program; later, other states and regions follow suit ASHP news conference in Washington, D.C., launches a public-education campaign on pharmacist-patient consultation ASHP launches Information Network for Students to encourage pursuit of careers in organized healthcare settings and organizational involvement ASHP creates Study Group on Organizational Structure and Governing Process Florida law allows pharmacists to prescribe 30 medicines listed in a state formulary American Druggist magazine publishes a major profile of ASHP, saying the group is “ready for a bigger role in pharmacy.” 1987 ASHP initiates measures to strengthen relationship with state affiliates in response to recommendations of a working group ASHP convenes Working Group on HMO Pharmacists ASHP representatives testify in support of therapeutic interchange at legislative hearings in Wisconsin and Washington State ASHP declines to support designation of clinical pharmacy as a BPS-recognized specialty ASHP endorses a specialty-recognition petition for nutritional support pharmacy ASHP Foundation appoints Charles M. King, Jr., as Executive Vice President, to succeed Warren E. McConnell BPS decides that clinical pharmacy practice is “too broad and too general” to be recognized as a specialty FDA approves first anti-HIV therapy, zidovudine AACP becomes a member of JCPP 1988 With support from ASHP, University of Maryland conducts invitational conference designed to build support for developing a well-defined technical workforce in pharmacy ASHP begins expansion of self-study educational programs, including a pharmacy-management certificate program and a clinical skills program ASHP creates Specialty Practice Groups in five areas: clinical pharmacokinetics, infectious diseases, oncology, primary care, and psychopharmacy ASHP urges BPS not to recognize pharmacotherapy as a specialty and suggests that the profession as a whole should first assess the future direction of specialization ASHP creates Commission on Therapeutics ASHP begins recognizing ASHP Fellows in Practitioner Recognition Program BPS recognizes nutritional support pharmacy and pharmacotherapy as specialties Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy founded Prescription Drug Marketing Act becomes law; bans certain resale of pharmaceuticals by hospitals Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act becomes law; several provisions expand access to pharmacist services (law repealed in 1989) 1989 ASHP Task Force on Technical Personnel in Pharmacy issues final report; development of national technician certification among 16 recommendations ASHP launches major expansion in public relations, government relations, and services for state affiliates ASHP, in public communication, highlights pharmacist role in selecting multisource drug products, in response to scandal in generic drug approval ASHP works with American College of Physicians to clarify that therapeutic interchange is appropriate in ambulatory care as well as inpatient settings ASHP creates a membership Practice Management Group ASHP grants funds to five affiliated state societies in a competitive grants program ASHP launches PharmNet, an electronic bulletin board service for members ASHP participates in the planning and conduct of the second Pharmacy in the 21st Century conference (P21), sponsored by JCPP, Williamsburg, Virginia FDA scandal involving personnel accepting gratuities from generics industry ACPE declares it will accredit only PharmD programs, which will make that degree the sole entry-level degree in pharmacy APhA joins JCPP John Gans, a past president of ASHP, appointed APhA Executive Vice President The second P21 Conference includes an influential presentation by Douglas Hepler and Linda Strand on pharmaceutical care Congress repeals Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act JCPP organizations object strongly to Sandoz’s plan for restricted distribution of its clozapine product 1990 ASHP sends “urgent attention” letter to hospital pharmacy departments encouraging re-examination of procedures related to batch preparation of sterile products ASHP, AACP, ACCP, and APhA sponsor invitational conference, “Directions for Specialization in Pharmacy Practice,” Bethesda, Maryland ASHP endorses BPS petition to recognize psychopharmacy practice as a specialty ASHP Board authorizes development of a technician certification program in concert with other groups ASHP appoints Managed Care Advisory Group ASHP launches its political action committee ASHP Study Group on Organizational Structure and Governing Process issues report designed to enhance transparency and responsiveness ASHP members approve increasing the size of the House of Delegates from 110 to 161, with each state having at least two delegates Widely publicized incidents of patient morbidity and deaths related to microbial contamination of pharmacy-prepared sterile products produced in batch mode Blue Ribbon Committee on Generic Medicines issues recommendations for improving integrity of generic-drug-approval process FDA, under pressure from ASHP and others, backs off its prohibition of drug-product returns from hospitals 1991 ASHP and other national pharmacist associations issue joint statement supporting the PharmD as sole entry-level degree ASHP Invitational Conference on Quality Assurance for Pharmacy-Prepared Sterile Products, Washington, D.C. With ASHP support, the Scope of Pharmacy Practice Project conducts a national task analysis of pharmacy technicians Six states, with support from ASHP, conduct consensus conferences on overcoming barriers to the use of technicians ASHP merges accreditation standards for hospital pharmacy and clinical pharmacy residencies; programs now called residencies “in pharmacy practice (with an emphasis on pharmaceutical care)” ASHP conducts regional staff-development workshops ASHP creates Home Care Advisory Group First meeting of ASHP Task Force on Students ASHP completes work on ACCRUE, a three-level comprehensive management training program ASHP informs public about escalating prices of pharmaceuticals stimulated by Medicaid drug rebate legislation Gulf War waged by coalition of 35 nations in response to Iraq invasion of Kuwait 1992 ASHP commemorates its 50th anniversary with a commissioned history of the organization and a special session at its annual meeting ASHP conducts congressional seminar on pharmaceutical-purchasing practices of hospitals, highlighting benefit of nonprofit and volume discounts ASHP appoints Multihospital Pharmacy Services Advisory Group ASHP releases first module in clinical skills self-study program ASHP forms Steering Committee on Organizational Structure ASHP purchases modern Bethesda building as new headquarters AACP House of Delegates votes to support the PharmD as the sole entry-level degree for pharmacists USP proposes a general information chapter on “Dispensing Practices for Sterile Drug Products Intended for Home Use” BPS approves ASHP’s petition to recognize psychopharmacy practice as a specialty 1993 ASHP Invitational Conference on Implementing Pharmaceutical Care, San Antonio, Texas ASHP Guidelines on Preventing Medication Errors in Hospitals ASHP Technical Assistance Bulletin on Quality Assurance for Pharmacy-Prepared Sterile Products ASHP and six other pharmacy organizations form Coalition for Consumer Access to Pharmaceutical Care to present a forceful message to the Clinton Administration on healthcare reform ASHP creates Center on Managed Care Pharmacy ASHP invitational conference, Understanding and Managing the Escalating Cost of Pharmaceuticals in Healthcare Institutions, Atlanta 1994 ASHP announces that Joseph Oddis will retire as CEO at the end of 1997 ASHP, AMA, and ANA sponsor multidisciplinary invitational conference, Understanding and Preventing Drug Misadventures, Chantilly, Virginia ASHP members approve new name, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, effective January 1, 1995 ASHP launches Section of Home Care Practitioners First Annual ASHP Home Care Conference attracts more than 1,700 attendees ASHP launches Section of Clinical Specialists, replacing Specialty Practice Groups ASHP launches Pharmacy Student Forum ASHP creates Center on Managed Care Pharmacy ASHP approves its first Therapeutic Position Statement, Institutional Use of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to Maintain Patency of Peripheral Indwelling Intermittent Infusion Devices ASHP appeals BPS rejection of petition to recognize oncology pharmacy practice as a specialty ASHP supports federal legislation that calls for development of a payment mechanism for pharmaceutical care ASHP and five other groups offer to help schools of pharmacy expand opportunities for BS-degree pharmacists to earn a PharmD degree ASHP participates in the planning and conduct of the third P21 conference, Leesburg, Virginia, sponsored by JCPP ASHP merges AJHP and Clinical Pharmacy for semimonthly publication Final Report on the ASHP Steering Committee on Organizational Structure Death of journalist Betsy Lehman from a huge overdose of chemotherapy at a Boston hospital catalyzes nationwide effort to improve chemotherapy safety Reversing previous policy, AMA supports pharmacist role in therapeutic interchange 1995 ASHP, APhA, Illinois Council of Health-System Pharmacists, and Michigan Pharmacists Association establish the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board ASHP Invitational Conference on Pharmacy in Integrated Healthcare Systems, Rosemont, Illinois ASHP appoints Pharmacy Technician Advisory Group ASHP creates Pharmacy Practice Management Advisory Group ASHP Conference on Applying Outcomes and Pharmacoeconomics in Improving Patient Care, Boston PTCB administers three technician-certification exams in its first year Oklahoma City domestic terrorism bombing of a federal building; 168 deaths 1996 ASHP announces selection of Henri R. Manasse, Jr., as Executive Vice President-Designate ASHP, AMA, ANA panel issues Top Priority Actions for Preventing Adverse Drug Events in Hospitals ASHP media campaign on pharmacist’s role in preventing medication errors ASHP and APhA White Paper on Pharmacy Technicians advocates for uniform national standards for technician training ASHP develops Model Curriculum for Pharmacy Technician Training ASHP creates Center on Pharmacy Practice Management First annual ASHP Conference on Pharmacy Practice Management ASHP creates Project Catalyst to facilitate implementation of pharmaceutical care ASHP joins most pharmacy groups in opposing FDA’s Medication Guide labeling requirements ASHP named to an independent group commissioned by the federal government to develop a private-sector plan for meeting FDA’s goals related to patient information for prescription medicines ASHP submits a third supplement to support its BPS petition for specialty recognition of oncology pharmacy practice ASHP begins Clinical Skills Competition for students Twenty-six state affiliates participate in ASHP public relations advisory network Midyear Clinical Meeting sets records; 16,502 attendees, including nearly1,000 from other countries, and 1,723 students ASHP Foundation establishes the Joseph A. Oddis Endowment Fund to support the advancement of pharmacy ISMP panel issues report on Preventing Medication Errors in Cancer Chemotherapy Sixteen-member National Coordinating Council for Medication Error Reporting and Prevention recommends ways to reduce errors BPS approves petition to recognize oncology pharmacy practice as a specialty Pew Commission recommends reduction in number of pharmacy schools by at least 20% VA issues directive, Scope of Practice for Clinical Pharmacy Specialists 1997 ASHP outlines areas for safety research at symposium sponsored by AMA-appointed group, National Patient Safety Foundation ASHP launches The Competitive Edge: Advanced Experiential Training in Conducting and Using Outcomes Studies Annual Meeting session features a tribute to Joseph Oddis; reviews milestones in his career and major trends that shaped pharmacy during his service to ASHP ACPE approves accreditation standards for pharmacy education that recognize only the PharmD curriculum for preparing pharmacists; the year 2000 set as implementation date HHS Secretary Donna Shalala approves private sector plan for providing useful prescription medication information to consumers Key to abbreviations - AACP American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy - ACPE Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education - AHA American Hospital Association - APhA American Pharmacists Association - BPS Board of Pharmacy Specialties - DEA Drug Enforcement Administration - DPIF Drug Products Information File - FDA Food and Drug Administration - HHS Department of Health and Human Services - ISMP Institute for Safe Medication Practices - JCPP Joint Commission of Pharmacy Practitioners - NABP National Association of Boards of Pharmacy - NACDS National Association of Chain Drug Stores - NARD National Association of Retail Druggists - NCI National Cancer Institute - NCPIE National Council on Patient Information and Education - NLM National Library of Medicine - P21 Pharmacy in the 21st Century Conference - PHS U.S. Public Health Service - VA Department of Veterans Affairs - WHO World Health Organization.
