=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sigurd Aalefjær - Wikipedia]
Sigurd Aalefjær Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (14 September 1917 – 10 March 1991) was a Norwegian engineer, civil servant and director of Norwegian hydropower plants. [1] He was born in Bend, Oregon as a son of Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969) and Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975); the family soon moved to Vennesla in Vest-Agder, Norway.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigurd_Aalefj%C3%A6r

[Sigurd Aalefjaer (September 14, 1917 — March 10, 1991), Norwegian ...]
Mar 10, 1991 · Background He was born in Bend, Oregon as a son of Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969) og Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975). The family soon moved to Vennesla.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/sigurd.aalefjaer/1890231

[Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (1917-1991) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Mar 10, 1991 · Engineer, Civil Servant. He was noted as being the Director of several important Norwegian hydropower plants. He was born one of four children to Norwegian parents as Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær in Bend, Oregon, to Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969), and his wife Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975), on September 14, 1917....
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/236342864/sigurd_arthur-aalefj%C3%A6r

[Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (1917 - 1991) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Mar 10, 1991 · Aftenposten morgen 20.8.1960, s. 9: Overingeniør Sigurd Aalefjær overtar stillingen som direktør for statskraftverkene. Norsk biografisk leksikon, bind 10, s. 142: Aalefjær, Sigurd Arthur, 1917–91, sivilingeniør og kraftverksdirektør.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Sigurd-Arthur-Aalefj%C3%A6r/6000000064223348047

[Sigurd Aalefjær - Wikiwand]
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Articles Remove ads Remove ads
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Sigurd_Aalefj%C3%A6r


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sigurd Aalefjær - Wikipedia] ---
Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (14 September 1917 – 10 March 1991) was a Norwegian engineer, civil servant and director of Norwegian hydropower plants.
He was born in Bend, Oregon as a son of Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969) and Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975); the family soon moved to Vennesla  in Vest-Agder, Norway. He married Magda Synnøve Berg (1920–2002) in 1943. He resided and died in Bærum.

He finished his secondary education at Kristiansand Cathedral School in 1937 and graduated as a construction engineer from the Norwegian Institute of Technology  in Trondheim during 1941. He worked for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Agency from 1942 to 1946, Drammens Elektrisitetsverk from 1946 to 1949 and the Water Resources and Energy Agency again from 1949. From 1960 to his retirement in 1984 he was the director of Statskraftverkene (now Statkraft).

He was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1983.


--- [Sigurd Aalefjaer (September 14, 1917 — March 10, 1991), Norwegian ...] ---
Background He was born in Bend, Oregon as a son of Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969) og Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975). The family soon moved to Vennesla. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. He was born in Bend, Oregon as a son of Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969) og Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975). The family soon moved to Vennesla. Norwegian Institute of Technology. He resided and died in Bærum. He finished his secondary education at Kristiansand Cathedral School in 1937 and graduated as a construction engineer from the Norwegian Institute of Technology in 1941. He worked for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Agency from 1942 to 1946, Drammens Elektrisitetsverk from 1946 to 1949 and the Water Resources and Energy Agency again from 1949. From 1960 to his retirement in 1984 he was the director of Statskraftverkene.


--- [Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (1917-1991) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Engineer, Civil Servant. He was noted as being the Director of several important Norwegian hydropower plants. He was born one of four children to Norwegian parents as Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær in Bend, Oregon, to Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969), and his wife Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975), on September 14, 1917. His family later moved to Vennesla, Vest-Adger, Norway, while he was still a child. He was educated locally and finished his education at the secondary level at the Kristiansand Cathedral School in Kristiansand, Norway, with a degree in art in 1937. He later attended and graduated from the prestigious Norwegian Institute of Technology in Trondheim, Norway, as a construction engineer in 1941. Following his education, he worked for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy in Oslo, Norway, from 1941 to 1946. He also worked for Drammens Elektrisitesverk in Drammen, Norway, from 1946 to 1949, and also again for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Agency in Oslo, Norway, in 1949. He also served as Chairman of the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute from 1962 to 1964, and as a Chairman of the committee for building and civil engineering research from 1967 to 1968. He lastly worked in different positions for the Statskraftverkene later Satatkraft AS from 1960 until his retirement in 1984. For his service as a civil servant, and engineer, and for his efforts to power supply his home country of Norway and other Nordic countries he was honored with the Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav, a Chivalric order with five degrees for remarkable accomplishments on behalf of the country and humanity. He was married to Magda Synnøve Berg Aalefjær (1920–2002), from 1943 until his death. Engineer, Civil Servant. He was noted as being the Director of several important Norwegian hydropower plants. He was born one of four children to Norwegian parents as Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær in Bend, Oregon, to Wilhelm Torjussen Aalefjær (1881–1969), and his wife Inger Larsen Kostøl (1890–1975), on September 14, 1917. His family later moved to Vennesla, Vest-Adger, Norway, while he was still a child. He was educated locally and finished his education at the secondary level at the Kristiansand Cathedral School in Kristiansand, Norway, with a degree in art in 1937. He later attended and graduated from the prestigious Norwegian Institute of Technology in Trondheim, Norway, as a construction engineer in 1941. Following his education, he worked for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy in Oslo, Norway, from 1941 to 1946. He also worked for Drammens Elektrisitesverk in Drammen, Norway, from 1946 to 1949, and also again for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Agency in Oslo, Norway, in 1949. He also served as Chairman of the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute from 1962 to 1964, and as a Chairman of the committee for building and civil engineering research from 1967 to 1968. He lastly worked in different positions for the Statskraftverkene later Satatkraft AS from 1960 until his retirement in 1984. For his service as a civil servant, and engineer, and for his efforts to power supply his home country of Norway and other Nordic countries he was honored with the Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav, a Chivalric order with five degrees for remarkable accomplishments on behalf of the country and humanity. He was married to Magda Synnøve Berg Aalefjær (1920–2002), from 1943 until his death. Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Sigurd Arthur Aalefjær (1917 - 1991) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
No content


--- [Sigurd Aalefjær - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
