=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of highest mountains on Earth - Wikipedia]
List of highest mountains on Earth Aerial view of Mount Everest from the south. The peak rises over Lhotse, while Nuptse is the ridge on the left. There are at least 108 mountains on Earth with elevations of 7,200 m (23,622 ft; 4 mi) or greater above sea level. Of these, 14 are more than 8,000 m (26,247 ft; 5 mi). [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest_mountains_on_Earth

[Is Mount Everest Really the Tallest Mountain in the World?]
Mount Everest is best described as the highest mountain in the world. In other words: it has the greatest elevation, at more than 29,000 feet (about 8,850 meters) above sea level. Other mountains, though, have made claims on being the tallest when measured from points other than sea level.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/story/is-mount-everest-really-the-tallest-mountain-in-the-world

[What is the tallest mountain in the world? No, it's not Mount Everest]
Jul 1, 2023 · The tallest mountain in the world from base to peak is Mauna Kea, a long-dormant volcano in Hawaii, USA. In total, it is approximately 10,205m (33481 feet) in height, taller than Mount Everest's 8,849m (29032 feet).
URL: https://www.sciencefocus.com/planet-earth/what-is-the-tallest-mountain-in-the-world

[The World's Tallest Mountain]
Fourteen mountain peaks on Earth stand taller than 8,000 meters (26,247 feet). The tallest of these “eight-thousanders” is Mount Everest, the standard to ...
URL: https://science.nasa.gov/earth/earth-observatory/the-worlds-tallest-mountain-82578/

[Wolfram|Alpha (tallest mountain | by elevation)]
Result: Mount Everest (29032 feet)
URL: https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=What+is+the+name+of+the+tallest+mountain%3F


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of highest mountains on Earth - Wikipedia] ---
There are at least 108 mountains on Earth with elevations of 7,200 m (23,622 ft; 4 mi) or greater above sea level. Of these, 14 are more than 8,000 m (26,247 ft; 5 mi). The vast majority of these mountains are part of either the Himalayas or the Karakoram mountain ranges located on the edge of the Indian plate and Eurasian plate in China, India, Nepal, and Pakistan.


--- [Is Mount Everest Really the Tallest Mountain in the World?] ---
Is Mount Everest Really the Tallest Mountain in the World? Mount Everest is best described as the highest mountain in the world. In other words: it has the greatest elevation, at more than 29,000 feet (about 8,850 meters) above sea level. Other mountains, though, have made claims on being the tallest when measured from points other than sea level. Chimborazo in Ecuador, for example, has been cited as the tallest peak when measured from the center of Earth. At more than 20,000 feet (6,000 meters) in elevation, it falls short of Everest. But Chimborazo is located near the Equator, where Earth bulges, which means that it is about 6,800 feet (about 2,070 meters) farther above Earth’s center than Everest. All in all, Chimborazo reaches nearly 4,000 miles (6,400 kilometers) above the center of Earth. - Related Topics: - mountain Measured from base to peak, Hawaii’s Mauna Kea, which originates at the bottom of the ocean, is far taller than Everest, at about 33,500 feet (10,210 meters). Measured from sea level, Mauna Kea reaches only about 13,800 feet (4,200 meters).


--- [What is the tallest mountain in the world? No, it's not Mount Everest] ---
Traditional knowledge tells us that Mount Everest is the tallest mountain in the world – but the truth is a little more complicated. Depending on how you measure a mountain, Mount Everest might not be the tallest in the world after all. There are a couple of other mountains that would like to have a word and are both able to claim the record on a technicality. If you’re looking for a good old ‘um, actually’ fact, you’re in the right place. Adventure down the page below to find out about Mauna Kea – the dormant volcano in Hawaii – and to see why it can claim to be the tallest mountain in the world. Is Mount Everest the world’s tallest mountain? Mount Everest is the world's tallest mountain above sea level. Its peak is 8,849m above the ocean, making it the piece of land at the highest altitude on Earth. Technically, however, it is not the tallest mountain in the world, if you consider mountains that begin below sea level. However, Mount Everest is easily the mountain with the tallest peak that you can climb the entire way (but we don't recommend it – over 300 lives have been lost attempting to reach its summit). What is the world’s tallest mountain? The tallest mountain in the world from base to peak is Mauna Kea, a long-dormant volcano in Hawaii, USA. In total, it is approximately 10,205m (33481 feet) in height, taller than Mount Everest's 8,849m (29032 feet). Over half of Mauna Kea is underwater in the Pacific Ocean. Around 6,000 metres of the mountain is under the sea, with 4,205 metres above sea level. In total, Mauna Kea is around 1.4km taller than Everest. Mauna Kea has been inactive for around 4,500 years, but the United States Geological Survey claims that it “is likely to erupt again.” Thanks to being home to the largest astronomical observatory on Earth, though, the “sensitive astronomical telescopes… would, as a by-product of their stargazing, detect minute ground tilts possibly foretelling a future eruption". Based on measuring from base to peak, Mauna Loa, an active volcano in Hawaii is the second-tallest mountain on Earth, with a total height of 9.17km (5km underwater). It all depends on how you measure, though, as there is a third mountain which could be considered the tallest in the world: Mount Chimborazo in Ecuador. This is thanks to the Earth not being perfectly spherical and the equator bulging outward. Located in the Andes in Ecuador, Chimborazo is another inactive volcano with a peak of 6,310 metres above sea level. Thanks to it being only one degree south of the equator, however – closer than any other mountain – Chimborazo can technically claim to have the peak closest to the Sun. This means that, if measured from the centre of the planet, Chimborazo can claim to be the tallest mountain on Earth. Typically, though, we don’t measure from the centre of the planet, instead choosing to go from either above sea level or from base to peak. What is the biggest mountain in the Solar System? The tallest mountains on Earth don’t come close to comparing to the tallest mountains in the Solar System. Olympus Mons on Mars tends to take home the record for the tallest mountain in the Solar System but the biggest could well be the Rheasilvia peak on the Vesta asteroid. Olympus Mons is about 21.9km tall from base to peak, making it just over twice as tall as Mauna Kea. Given the difficulty of measuring such things on other planets, however, it might not be the tallest in the Solar System. The Rheasilvia peak within the crater on the Vesta asteroid is thought to be potentially marginally taller at around 22.5km high from base to peak. Read more:


--- [The World's Tallest Mountain] ---
Fourteen mountain peaks on Earth stand taller than 8,000 meters (26,247 feet). The tallest of these “eight-thousanders” is Mount Everest, the standard to which all other mountains are compared. The Nepalese name for the mountain is Sagarmatha: “mother of the universe.” Everest’s geological story began 40 million years ago when the Indian subcontinent began a slow-motion collision with Asia. The edges of two continents jammed together and pushed up the massive ridges that make up the Himalayas today. Pulitzer-winning journalist John McPhee summed up the wonder of the mountain’s history when he wrote Annals of the Former World: “The summit of Mount Everest is marine limestone. This one fact is a treatise in itself on the movements of the surface of the Earth. If by some fiat, I had to restrict all this writing to one sentence; this is the one I would choose.” In other words, when climbers reach the top of Mount Everest, they are not standing on hard igneous rock produced by volcanoes. Rather, they are perched on softer sedimentary rock formed by the skeletons of creatures that lived in a warm ocean off the northern coast of India tens of millions of years ago. Meanwhile, glaciers have chiseled Mount Everest’s summit into a huge, triangular pyramid, defined by three faces and three ridges that extend to the northeast, southeast, and northwest. The southeastern ridge is the most widely used climbing route. It is the one that Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay followed in May 1953 when they became the first climbers to reach the summit and return safely. Climbers who follow this route begin by trekking past Khumbu glacier and through the Khumbu ice fall, an extremely dangerous area where ice tumbles off the mountain into a chaotic waterfall of ice towers and crevasses. Next, climbers reach a bowl-shaped valley—a cirque—called the Western Cwm (pronounced coom) and then the foot of the Lhotse Face, a 1,125-meter (3,691-foot) wall of ice. Climbing up the Lhotse face leads to the South Col, the low point in the ridge that connects Everest to Lhotse. It is from the South Col that most expeditions launch their final assault on the summit, following a route up the southeastern ridge. Some climbers opt for the northern ridge, which is known for having harsher winds and colder temperatures. That is the path that British climbers George Mallory and Andrew Irvine used in 1924 during what may, in fact, have been the first ascent. Whether the pair made it to the summit remains a topic of controversy, but what is known for certain is that the men were spotted pushing toward the peak just before the arrival of a storm. Mallory’s corpse was discovered near the northeast ridge at 8,160 meters (26,772 feet) by an American climber in 1999, but it still isn’t clear whether he reached the summit. Despite its reputation as an extremely dangerous mountain, commercial guiding has done much to tame Everest in the last few decades. As of March 2012, there had been 5,656 successful ascents of Everest, while 223 people had died—a fatality rate of 4 percent. Read more about the world’s fourteen tallest peaks in our new feature: The Eight-Thousanders. References & Resources - Arnette, A. Everest Gallery. Accessed December 20, 2013. - 8000ers Mount Everest. Accessed December 20, 2013. - The Economist (2012, May 29) Stairway to heaven. Accessed December 20, 2013. - GlacierWorks (2013) Everest Tour. Accessed December 20, 2013. - Gizmodo (2011, February 2) The Open Graveyard of Mt. Everest’s Death Zone. Accessed December 20, 2013. - National Geographic (2013, June) Maxed out on Everest. Accessed December 20, 2013. - National Geographic (2012) On Everest. Accessed December 20, 2013. - Searle, M. (2013) Colliding Continents: A Geological Exploration of the Himalaya, Karakoram, and Tibet (New York: Oxford University Press) - Peakbagger Mount Everest. Accessed December 20, 2013. - University of Montana (2013) Everest Education Expedition. Accessed December 20, 2013. NASA Earth Observatory image by Jesse Allen and Robert Simmon, using EO-1 ALI data from the NASA EO-1 team, archived on the USGS Earth Explorer. Caption by Adam Voiland.


--- [Wolfram|Alpha (tallest mountain | by elevation)] ---
No content
