=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Oprah Winfrey]
In 1992, she purchased an 80-acre compound in Telluride, Colorado, which she would go on to sell in approximately late 2000. In 1994, she also purchased an ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oprah_Winfrey

[Sunshine Mesa Parcel - 85acres - Telluride Real Estate]
This 85 acre parcel was purchased by Oprah Winfrey in 1992 and then sold by her in 2004 to the current owner. It is directly across Hwy 145 from Meg ...
URL: https://www.telluriderealestatepro.com/presentations/sunshine-mesa-parcel-85acres/

[Oprah Winfrey's Land Purchases Overview | PDF]
In 1992, she purchased an 80-acre compound in Telluride, Colorado, which she would go on to sell in approximately late 2000. In 1994, she also purchased an ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/698839137/test-5

[Oprah Winfrey Homes: Inside Her Massive Real Estate Portfolio]
Dec 26, 2023 — The original 42-acre property—known as the Promised Land— included a 23,000-square-foot Georgian-style house, a 6,000-square-foot guesthouse, a ...
URL: https://www.housebeautiful.com/design-inspiration/real-estate/a46147714/oprah-winfrey-homes-real-estate/

[Oprah Winfrey's Houses Are Worth Upwards of $100 Million—Here's ...]
Nov 13, 2025 — Winfrey paid $28.85 million for the 23-acre estate, one of the largest in the area. It includes a main house designed by California architect ...
URL: https://www.architecturaldigest.com/story/oprah-winfrey-real-estate-portfolio


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Oprah Winfrey] ---
Oprah Gail Winfrey (; born  Orpah Gail Winfrey; January 29, 1954) is an American talk show host, television producer, actress, author, and media proprietor. She is best known for her talk show, The Oprah Winfrey Show, broadcast from Chicago, which ran in national syndication for 25 years, from 1986 to 2011. Globally, she is the richest Black woman and the wealthiest female celebrity. Dubbed the "Queen of All Media", she was the richest African-American of the 20th century and was once the world's only Black billionaire. By 2007, she was often ranked as the most influential woman in the world.
Winfrey was born into poverty in rural Mississippi to a single teenage mother and later raised in inner-city Milwaukee. Winfrey was then sent to live with the man she calls her father, Vernon Winfrey, a barber in Nashville, Tennessee, and landed a job in radio while still in high school. By 19, she was a co-anchor for the local evening news. Winfrey's often emotional, extemporaneous delivery eventually led to her transfer to the daytime talk show arena, and after boosting a third-rated local Chicago talk show to first place, she launched her own production company.
Credited with creating a more intimate, confessional form of media communication, Winfrey popularized and revolutionized the tabloid talk show genre pioneered by Phil Donahue. By the mid-1990s, Winfrey had reinvented her show with a focus on literature, self-improvement, mindfulness, and spirituality. She has been criticized for unleashing a confession culture, promoting controversial self-help ideas, and having an emotion-centered approach, and has also been praised for overcoming adversity to become a benefactor to others. Winfrey also emerged as a political force in the 2008 presidential race, with her endorsement of Barack Obama estimated to have been worth about one million votes during the 2008 Democratic primaries.  In the same year, she formed her own network, the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN). In 2013, Winfrey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama.
In 1994, Winfrey was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame. She has received honorary doctorate degrees from multiple universities. Winfrey has won many awards throughout her career, including 19 Daytime Emmy Awards (including the Lifetime Achievement Award and the Chairman's Award), 3 Primetime Emmy Awards (including the Bob Hope Humanitarian Award), a Tony Award, a Peabody Award, and the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award awarded by the Academy Awards, in addition to two competitive Academy Award nominations. Winfrey was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2021.




--- [Sunshine Mesa Parcel - 85acres - Telluride Real Estate] ---
Sunshine Mesa Parcel - 85acres This 85 acre parcel was purchased by Oprah Winfrey in 1992 and then sold by her in 2004 to the current owner. It is directly across Hwy 145 from Meg Whitman's (ex CEO of Ebay and Hewlett-Packard) Skyline Ranch and the prestigious subdivision of Raspberry Patch where Jerry Seinfeld's house is located. The almost retangular lot has to the north the esteemed Preserve subdivision, to the west and south National Forest and to the east Hwy 145. The lot elevation goes up steadily from the highway to a top knoll and then decends and levels out in various areas which are flat for building. The lot has jaw-dropping views of Wilson Peak, Mt Wilson, Sunshine Mountain, San Bernardo Mountain and Lizard Head Peak. The current zoning as a use by right would be 2 main houses of 12,000’ and below and 2 guest houses up to 800 sq. ft. Or you could do a PUD for more because of its Low Density Zoning. Please see zoning PDFs in the pdf section regarding this as well as a survey map. There is no surface water on this property; its appeal is that it is 2 minutes to Mountain Village and 10 minutes to downtown Telluride and could allow for a family compound of 4 structures (though 2 would currently need to be small - up to 800sqft.). It currently has one well on the property and another can be drilled as this property is divided into two pieces. There are existing roads/drives throughout the property and these can be seen in RED on the PDF labeled SunshineParcel85acresMapWRoads.


--- [Oprah Winfrey's Land Purchases Overview | PDF] ---
Oprah Winfrey's Land Purchases Overview Oprah Winfrey is an American media executive, talk show host, television producer, actress, and philanthropist. She is best known as the host of The Oprah Winfrey Show, the highest-rated talk show in American television history. Some key facts: - She was born in 1954 in Mississippi and raised by her grandmother until age 6 when she moved to Milwaukee to live with her mother. - She began her career in media as a teenager working in local radio and TV news in Nashville. Her emotional interviewing style led to success in talk shows. - The Oprah Winfrey Show launched nationally in 1986 and became the highest rated talk show for 25 years, greatly influencing media Oprah Winfrey's Land Purchases Overview


--- [Oprah Winfrey Homes: Inside Her Massive Real Estate Portfolio] ---
Oprah Winfrey has built an enviable empire. With an estimated net worth of $3.5 billion (yes, billion!), the beloved businesswoman has created a network of endeavors tied to philanthropy, media production and distribution (she recently produced the movie The Color Purple), and so much more. Considering how well-traveled Winfrey is, with personal and business connections all over the country, it's no surprise the former talk show host has put down roots in multiple locations. For the past two decades, Montecito, California, has remained her main hub. But the multi-hyphenate has also owned homes in nearly every region of the United States, with properties in Illinois, Florida, Hawaii, Colorado, and Washington state. We've gathered the highlights of her vast real estate portfolio below. 1985: Winfrey Buys a Chicago Condo A year before Winfrey’s iconic talk show, The Oprah Winfrey Show, first aired nationally in 1986, the media mogul made one of her first big real estate moves by purchasing a condo in Chicago’s Water Tower Place for an undisclosed amount. Located along the Magnificent Mile, the city’s bustling commercial district, the condo was the first of many she’d own in the building. According to the Chicago Tribune, she bought three other units surrounding the original one: a roughly $1.06 million unit in 1992; a $1.5 million unit in 1993; and a $1 million unit in 1994. She combined the four units into one massive duplex that totaled 9,625 square feet and consisted of four bedrooms, five full bathrooms, and two half bathrooms. In January 2014, Winfrey listed the duplex for $7.75 million. It sold for nearly $4.63 million in 2015. 1995: Winfrey Secures a Home on an Exclusive Florida Island Winfrey stepped up her real estate game in 1995 when she purchased a penthouse condo on the exclusive Fisher Island for an undisclosed amount. Located off the coast of Miami, the 216-acre, man-made island is home to many celebrities. Winfrey’s abode boasted four bedrooms and six bathrooms across 6,170 square feet. Not to mention, it featured 20-foot ceilings and an oceanfront terrace. Plus, the building came with every coveted amenity you can imagine. Winfrey sold the unit for $6.5 million in 2001 to the former chairman of Campbell’s Soup, according to Mansion Global. 2001: Winfrey Sets Her Sights on California and Snaps Up a Chicago Property In 2001, Winfrey officially invested in the city that would become her longtime home: Montecito, California. She purchased a sprawling estate in the celebrity-dense location for around $50 million. At the time, the sale was one of the highest for a private home in the state and the country, according to the Los Angeles Times. The original 42-acre property—known as the Promised Land— included a 23,000-square-foot Georgian-style house, a 6,000-square-foot guesthouse, a pool, and a tennis court. The estate still acts as Winfrey’s main residence today. She has since bought and sold surrounding properties, resulting in around 66 acres with additional structures on site. Winfrey also bought a surprisingly modest four-bedroom, Colonial-style home in Chicago’s Elmwood Park suburb for just $298,000. She renovated the 1941 property, updating the not-so-glamorous features like the roof, gutters, and garage door along with the home’s heating and cooling system. She reportedly never lived there. The more than 2,000-square-foot home sold for $375,000 in 2018. With that sale, she had no remaining real estate in Chicago. 2002-2003: Winfrey Makes Major Property Investments in Hawaii Winfrey began acquiring land in Maui, Hawaii, in 2002. According to the Chicago Tribune, she purchased three properties totaling more than 117 acres for $17 million that year. The following year, she snapped up another three properties for approximately 49 acres with a price tag of more than $8 million combined. At the time, some of her properties had buildings on them while others didn’t. One such building is a ranch that Winfrey transformed into an inviting, island farmhouse with the help of decorator Ellie Cullman. While the project started as a small renovation, it quickly turned into a major project. Architect Jeff Wooley helped alter the floor plan, raise the primary bedroom ceiling, install French doors, and add a wraparound porch. The interiors were refreshed with a bright, breezy color palette and countryside-inspired fabrics and motifs. "I love, love, love my house," Winfrey said of the Maui getaway in 2006. "It's a gem, so sweet and exquisite. Such a real, normal house. It feels like a nice blanket. A lovely and soft cashmere one." Today, Winfrey owns roughly 1,000 acres on the island. Her most recent purchase was in 2023 when she bought a whopping 870 acres for nearly $6.6 million in Kula, which is located in the Upcountry region of Maui. 2014: Winfrey Purchases Land to Build a Colorado Mansion Winfrey set out to build a mountain hideaway when she purchased nearly 60 acres of land in the town of Mountain Village that borders the Telluride Ski Ranches area for $10.85 million. Unfortunately, she ran into a legal issue when a retired nuclear physicist sued her for trail access rights. “I don’t care if Oprah is a neighbor, but if she is going to cut off access to trails, I don’t find that acceptable,” the physicist told The Denver Post. While the lawsuit was eventually dropped, there haven’t been any reports on whether she followed through with building a home on the land. 2015: Winfrey Buys a Colorado Home and Expands Her California Estate The media mogul expanded her Colorado real estate portfolio the following year by purchasing an impressive $14 million Telluride home. The high-tech home boasts five bedrooms, six and a half bathrooms, and tons of impressive features—including a 56-foot-long wine cave, private cable railroad to the ski slopes, and a heated driveway (to name a few!). She reportedly bought the 8,700-square-foot residence to use as a base while overseeing the construction of a new home on the land she acquired in 2014. In 2015, Winfrey also embarked on the first expansion of her Promised Land estate in California by purchasing a horse farm called Seamair Farm for nearly $29 million. The 23-acre estate consists of a main house designed by architect Cliff May that’s complete with a big backyard, pool, and patio. The property is designed to house horses, so it has a large circular paddock, multiple stables, and training areas. Not to mention, the sprawling estate boasts two private wells, a fish pond, fruit orchards, and green lawns. 2018: Winfrey Bets on a Waterfront Estate in the Pacific Northwest Winfrey values a good vacation home (and we can’t blame her!). She expanded her collection of dreamy getaways in 2018 when she dropped nearly $8.3 million on a 43-acre estate on Orcas Island, which is part of Washington state’s San Juan Islands. Known as Madroneagle, the waterfront property comprised a main four-bedroom, five-bathroom house spanning 7,303 square feet at the time. The rustic sanctuary featured reclaimed woodwork, floors with radiant heat, a stone fireplace, and a kitchen with a built-in pizza oven. Other enviable amenities included a sauna, Asian garden, and wine cellar. There’s also a nearly 3,000-square-foot guesthouse on site. Winfrey eventually sold the estate for $14 million in 2021, citing that she was too busy to spend time there. 2019: Winfrey Makes Another Big Home Acquisition in California Practically the queen of Montecito, Winfrey increased her California real estate holdings by purchasing a four-acre property for $6.85 million from actor Jeff Bridges in late 2019. The Spanish Revival-style compound put her total acquisitions in the area at 70 continuous acres valued at $86 million at the time. The three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom home was remodeled by Bridges and his wife Susan Geston after mudslides in 2017. The interiors maintained the 1919 home’s original character while featuring modern amenities. The property also included gardens, orchards, a pool house, a guest house, and horse facilities. 2021: Winfrey Quietly Invests in Another California Residence A couple of years later, Winfrey quietly bought a Tuscan-style farmhouse in Montecito for $10.5 million. The estate’s main home consisted of four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms. It also included two cottages and gardens across just over two acres. Winfrey didn’t hang onto the property for long. In 2022, she sold the main home to Jennifer Aniston for $14.8 million. According to the New York Post, Winfrey sold the other part with two cottages on it to her personal trainer and property manager, Bob Greene, for $2.3 million. Love knowing what your favorite stars are up to? Same. Let’s keep up with them together.


--- [Oprah Winfrey's Houses Are Worth Upwards of $100 Million—Here's ...] ---
Oprah Winfrey’s houses are the stuff dreams are made of. The media mogul, who has a net worth of $3 billion, according to Forbes, is famous for her work ethic, her entrepreneurial spirit, and her ability to manifest the goals she sets for herself—and none of this is more evident than in her real estate portfolio curation. Back in 1985, while filming The Color Purple, Winfrey reportedly wrote down her desire to one day own a place of her own. “It made me yearn to live in a space that would inspire and elevate me,” she said in a March 2013 feature for O, The Oprah Magazine of her time working on the Oscar-winning film. “I longed for a beautiful home.” Over the years, Winfrey has amassed residences in Illinois, Florida, Colorado, Hawaii, and Washington State. She’s also owned, or currently owns, properties in Tennessee and Indiana, though she primarily purchased those places for family and friends. And of course, she owns extensive property in Montecito, California, the site of the much-heralded estate she calls Promised Land. “I have actually traveled this country from the redwood forest—love those redwoods—to the Gulf Stream waters,” Winfrey said in 2024 of her homes across the country. Below, we’re sharing a glimpse into a handful of Winfrey’s real estate holdings, which are a testament to her ambitions and impeccable taste. Chicago duplex One of Winfrey’s first big real estate ventures was her purchase of a condo in Chicago’s prominent Water Tower Place, located along the city’s Magnificent Mile, in 1985. Her purchase came one year before The Oprah Winfrey Show aired nationally and catapulted her to a different level of national acclaim and recognition. The original purchase price was never publicly revealed, but in subsequent years, she snapped up three units surrounding the original one, for $1.06 million in 1992, $1.5 million in 1993, and $1 million in 1994, respectively, according to the Chicago Tribune. Winfrey combined the four units into a massive duplex that measured 9,625 square feet and featured four bedrooms and five full and two half bathrooms. She ultimately listed the enormous duplex for $7.75 million in January 2014 and sold it for $4.625 million in late 2015. Indiana farm Around 1988, Winfrey bought a 164-acre farm in Rolling Prairie, Indiana, to serve as a getaway from the Windy City. The property’s main house was a 9,700-square-foot, five-bedroom pad. A guesthouse, a swimming pool, a pool house, a caretaker’s residence, a log cabin, stables, and an orchard were also on the premises. Winfrey listed the compound in August 2003 for $8.5 million. She dropped the price to $6.9 million before offloading it the following year. Four Seasons Chicago In 1994, around the same time she was purchasing the last of the four adjacent condos in Water Tower Place, Winfrey also dropped $100,000 on a three-bedroom apartment at the Four Seasons Chicago. The renowned luxury hotel is situated just a few blocks from Lake Michigan and not too far from the Near West Side, where Harpo Studios, Winfrey’s multimedia production company, was located at the time. When Winfrey closed the studios for good in 2015, she sold the three-bedroom pad for $1.28 million and officially relocated to the West Coast. Fisher Island mansion One year after her Four Seasons Chicago purchase, Winfrey picked up a property on the exclusive Fisher Island, a 216-acre man-made island situated just off the coast of Miami; she primarily utilized the property as an escape from Chicago’s harsh winters. She paid an undisclosed amount for a four-bedroom, six-bathroom penthouse condo, which measured 6,170 square feet and boasted 20-foot ceilings and an expansive oceanfront terrace. The unit was located in the high-end Villa Del Mare condominiums, where amenities included a billiards room, a biking trail, multiple swimming pools, and a spa. The residence itself was airy and light-filled, with a wood-burning oven in the kitchen and a spacious main suite with his-and-hers en-suite bathrooms and dressing rooms. Winfrey ended up selling the unit for a then-unheard-of $6.5 million in 2001 to the former chairman of Campbell’s Soup. Promised Land In 2001, Winfrey began to set down roots for what is now known as Promised Land, her sprawling home in Montecito, California. The media mogul paid around $50 million for the original 42-acre spread, which included a 23,000-square-foot Georgian-style house, a 6,000-square-foot redwood guesthouse, and an outdoor area perfect for a pool, tennis court, and multiple patios. In the decades following, Winfrey continued to snap up nearby properties to expand her holdings, which now measure something around 70 acres; she still calls this sprawling estate her main home, even though she has sold off numerous parts of it over the years. In 2008, she featured the property’s dreamy teahouse in O, The Oprah Magazine. The petite outbuilding, tucked near an English-style garden and a rose garden, was initially planned as a space to cut and arrange flowers, but instead Winfrey designed it as a space to read, meditate, and sip tea. “It’s my dream, having a place like this. Some people ask, ‘Why do you need more space?’ And I tell them, ‘I need it to restore myself.’” In 2015, Winfrey began the slow and steady expansion of Promised Land with the purchase of a longtime equestrian property, Seamair Farm, located a stone’s throw from her original 42 acres. Winfrey paid $28.85 million for the 23-acre estate, one of the largest in the area. It includes a main house designed by California architect Cliff May and ample outdoor amenities, including a swimming pool, patio area, a fish pond, fruit orchards, and two private wells. A 44-acre dedicated preserve—including a two-acre avocado grove—is perfect for raising an assortment of crops, and a number of equestrian structures round out the estate’s offerings: a training area, multiple stables, and a large circular paddock. Then, in late 2019, Winfrey purchased a four-acre complex from actor Jeff Bridges for $6.85 million, expanding Promised Land to a jaw-dropping 70 contiguous acres. Bridges and his wife, Susan Geston, had restored the Spanish Revival–style compound following the devastating 2017 mudslides, creating a new aesthetic that combined the original 1919 detailing with more modern furnishings. The multihyphenate’s new property comprises a main house, a guest house, a carriage house, a pool house, and a gated equestrian facility with stables and a tack room. Notably, the main house was originally built by local architect James Osborne Craig, and the kitchen is a central part of the home, with vaulted, exposed-beam ceilings and skylights that welcome in tons of natural light. Winfrey’s most recent Montecito acquisition was a roughly one-acre property with a Mediterranean-style mansion and two cottages, which she picked up for $10.5 million in 2021. The main farmhouse comprised four bedrooms and three-and-a-half bathrooms spread across 4,320 square feet, with landscaped gardens, multiple terraces, a massive motorcourt, and stunning ocean and mountain views all around. The former talk show host didn’t hang onto this dwelling for long, however, selling the main mansion to Friends star Jennifer Aniston the following year for $14.8 million. She then sold the two cottages to her longtime friend and personal trainer, Bob Greene, for $2.3 million. Suburban Colonial-style home Winfrey purchased a modest four-bedroom Colonial-style home in the Elmwood Park suburb just outside Chicago for $298,000 in 2001. The television personality sank some money into updating the roof and gutter system, the garage door, and the heating and cooling system, but otherwise left the 2,250-square-foot home as is. Winfrey reportedly never actually lived in the house, which featured two wood-burning fireplaces, recessed lighting, and hardwood floors. Following the closure of Harpo Studios, Winfrey sold off all of her Chicago-area properties, including this one, which fetched $375,000 in 2018. Maui properties The media magnate’s personal trainer, Bob Greene, is responsible for encouraging Winfrey to invest in land in Hawaii. “He was worried that some developer might swoop up the land and build condos,” she explained. Between 2002 and 2003, she purchased two properties in Maui totaling 163 acres and costing her about $5.3 million. Both properties, situated in the Kula community, comprise several structures, but the one that Winfrey calls home is a gray ranch that she reimagined into an inviting modern farmhouse with the help of decorator Ellie Cullman, whom she hired after seeing Cullman’s laid-back Connecticut home on the cover of a magazine. “I saw a small porch, a kitchen that needed work, a master bedroom that did not face the view and had a low ceiling, and no connection between inside and outside,” Cullman said of the home’s existing structure. “The original plan was to do a quick job on the house and then think about building the ultimate Hawaii homestead.” Instead, architectural designer Jeff Wooley was brought on to reconfigure the entire floor plan. French doors were added, the staircase was moved, the ceiling in the main suite was raised, and a wraparound porch was built to take advantage of the views. When it came time to decorate the living room, Cullman and Winfrey took inspiration from the horses residing on the surrounding hills, appointing an antique weather vane in the shape of a galloping equine as the room’s centerpiece. The kitchen also now features a patterned stencil reminiscent of a quilt. Some pieces were repurposed from the former talk show host’s other properties, such as a Shaker chest from her Indiana home and a dining table that once sat in a poolhouse. “I grew up in a rural folk environment, and I’m still rooted in things that have brought me comfort over the years,” Winfrey said. “I love, love, love my house…. It’s a gem, so sweet and exquisite; such a real, normal house. It feels like a blanket. A lovely and soft cashmere one.” Added Cullman, “She liked [the home’s] small scale…. She already has a large home in Santa Barbara—this seems to go back to something real and personal. It’s a great house for her and two or three friends.” In 2010, Winfrey reportedly planned to turn the 12-bedroom manse into a bed-and-breakfast. She gained approval to operate the pad as a vacation rental the following year. Recently, Winfrey has built up her holdings in Maui, paying $6.6 million for 870 acres in 2023, comprising four large parcels of agricultural land. This, added to her 163 acres of existing Maui property (on a different part of the island), means that she now owns roughly 1,000 acres on the island. Reactions to Winfrey’s large purchase have been mixed, but some local residents have noted that the media mogul is being thoughtful about leaving the majority of her land undeveloped. “We’re struggling. We’re putting tax dollars together to try to do fencing and culling,” Maui councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura told a local station, praising Winfrey for hiring local residents to help with any construction needs. “We want to protect our food for food security as well as protect the watershed. Those are the big issues and she’s stepping right into them.” During a brush fire in 2019 and a tsunami warning in 2025, Winfrey opened her private road to help her neighbors evacuate. Antigua residence Although details are scarce, Winfrey reportedly has owned a chateau on Jumby Bay, an upscale private island off the coast of Antigua, since at least as far back as 2010. Accessible by private ferry, the 300-acre island hosts 28 resort bungalows, according to the New York Post, but the rest of the tropical locale is devoted to 56 estates, one of which Winfrey has called home—though it’s unclear if she still maintains the property. Telluride investments Winfrey made headlines in 2014 when she purchased nearly 60 acres of land near the Telluride Ski Resort in Colorado for $10.85 million. She had plans to build a megamansion on the property, but ran into a bit of a legal issue when a retired nuclear physicist living in the area sued her for trail access rights. “I don’t care if Oprah is a neighbor, but if she is going to cut off access to trails, I don’t find that acceptable,” the physicist told the Denver Post. The lawsuit was ultimately dropped, and it is unclear whether or not Winfrey went through with constructing her proposed megamansion. The following year, while waiting to see whether the megamansion plans could go through, the media mogul doubled down on her holdings in Telluride with the purchase of a state-of-the-art $14 million mansion. Winfrey bought the five-bedroom, six-and-a-half bathroom home from tech entrepreneur Bob Wall fully furnished. Set on 3.25 acres, the structure is made of stone, glass, and wood, with a 56-foot-long underground wine cellar (or wine cave, as it was often referred to) that even has sounds of creaking wood and dripping water played through a speaker. Other enviable features include a tempered glass bridge with integrated fiber optic lighting that connects the main suite to a private office and a second 45-foot bridge that extends from the house to a terrace perched in the trees 35 feet above ground. The high-tech residence was meant to be a “temporary” home as Winfrey oversaw construction of the megamansion, but it appears that the media mogul still owns it. Orcas Island vacation home The Pacific Northwest caught Winfrey’s eye in 2018, when she dropped $8 million for two adjoining parcels on Orcas Island, a part of the San Juan archipelago situated between Seattle and Vancouver. The luxury waterfront retreat measured a whopping 43 acres and included a main 7,303-square-foot, four-bedroom, five-bathroom house and a separate 2,948-square-foot guesthouse, both of which were built with rare reclaimed woods. The main house boasted a double-height great room with a stone fireplace, a library with floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, and a kitchen with a built-in pizza oven. The compound, known as Madroneagle, also included a sauna, Asian garden, and private beach on its grounds. Winfrey ultimately sold the property for $14 million just three years later, reasoning that she just didn’t have time to use the island getaway.
