=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Story of Marina Abramovic and Ulay — Sydney Yaeko]
Mar 5, 2020 · Ulay - originally Frank Uwe Laysiepen from Solingen Germany - began his career as an artist in the early ‘70s after moving to Amsterdam, where he began creating self-portrait polaroid collages that delved into gender as a construct, which were seen as controversial at the time. Ulay and Abramović first met in 1976.
URL: https://www.sydney-yaeko.com/artsandculture/marina-and-ulay

[Marina Abramović - Wikipedia]
Marina Abramović and Uwe Laysiepen, 1978 In 1976, after moving to Amsterdam, Abramović met the West German performance artist Uwe Laysiepen, who went by the single name Ulay.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marina_Abramovi%C4%87

[The Artists Are Present—Marina and Ulay - DailyArt Magazine]
Aug 18, 2025 · Balkan performing artist Marina Abramović was born in 1946 in Belgrade, Serbia. Ulay (Frank Uwe Laysiepen) was born on the same day as she, a few years earlier, in another place, Solingen, Germany. They met for the first time in 1975 in Amsterdam, on the day of their joint birthday. She was 29, and he was 32. Also on this day, their long-term artistic partnership began. When they started ...
URL: https://www.dailyartmagazine.com/marina-and-ulay-artistic-partnership/

[Ulay]
Frank Uwe Laysiepen known professionally as Ulay, was a German artist based in Amsterdam and Ljubljana, who received international recognition for his ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulay

[Ulay, 1943–2020 - ArtReview]
Mar 2, 2020 · The artist Ulay, known for his seminal performance collaboration with former partner Marina Abramović, has died. Real name Frank Uwe Laysiepen, the artist met met Abramović in 1976 in Amsterdam. They embarked on a 12 year working partnership, as well as becoming lovers, with works including ...
URL: https://artreview.com/news-2-march-2020-ulay-1943-2020/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Story of Marina Abramovic and Ulay — Sydney Yaeko] ---
The Story of Marina Abramovic and Ulay After hearing about the passing of German performance artist Ulay at the age of 76, I knew I had to pay tribute to his work with his ex partner Marina Abramović. While the time of their separation is dated back in 1988, their former bond - which resulted in some of the most influential and iconic moments in art history of the modern generation - lives on in the hearts of many - including myself. Back in 2010, my parents took me on a trip to New York City that I will never forget. From the Broadway shows, to the view from the Empire State Building, I checked off a lot of boxes on my bucketlist. But the most memorable part of the trip was witnessing Marina Abramović perform The Artist is Present live at the MoMA. At the time, my teenage self had never heard of her. But after hours of wandering her exhibit and learning more about her, she and her former partner Ulay truly opened my mind to performance art, modern art, and what it means to think deeply and look inside oneself. In the future, I can write articles that go more in-depth about Abramović’s early life and influence, but today I’d like to focus on her relationship with Ulay and its impact on culture. Early Lives Hailing from Serbia, Abramović’s studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Belgrade in the mid-’60s, completing post-graduate work at its sister school in Croatia. Abramović then returned to Serbia, where she taught at the the Academy at Novi Sad while developing her first solo performances. Ulay - originally Frank Uwe Laysiepen from Solingen Germany - began his career as an artist in the early ‘70s after moving to Amsterdam, where he began creating self-portrait polaroid collages that delved into gender as a construct, which were seen as controversial at the time. Ulay and Abramović first met in 1976. They soon moved in together and began collaborating artistically. The main focuses of their works were ego and identity. Their work resulted in a collective, which they refer to as “The Other.” As part of this collective they started to dress and behave alike in order to develop a completely trusting relationship. After some time, their own identity or sense of self became less and less decipherable. The following collaborations are the results of this unconventional union. Infamous Collaborations In Relation in Space (1976) In this performance, Abramović and Ulay repeatedly ran into each other from across the camera’s frame, gaining speed and force each time. They’d continuously knock each other over, with Ulay later stating that they were black and blue by the end of it. The purpose of this piece was to combine male and female energy, in order to create a third component, which they called “that self.” To see a snippet and hear commentary from Abramović and Ulay themselves, watch the video below. Relation in Movement (1977) Relation in Movement is one of Abramovic and Ulay’s lesser-known works - probably because it’s one of the few performances where they themselves are not easily visible. In this performance, the pair drove their car around an empty museum room for 365 laps. While Ulay drove the car, Abramović counted and announced each lap over a megaphone. Abramović recalls that during one of their performances of this piece, the motor burned out and created a black circle on the marble floor. Abramović had stated that the idea was that the car might collapse, or they might collapse themselves. But after the 365th lap, it signified an imaginary year for them. To see a snippet, watch the video below. Relation in Time (1977) For this performance, Abramović and Ulay had their ponytails tied together, sitting back to back for hours on end. They first sat in that position in the museum without anyone else present (except for a photographer who took the odd photo of the status of their joint ponytail,) and once they got to the point where they could take it no longer, they invited museum visitors to view them. They wanted to see if having an audience could push them to stay longer, and succeeded with one extra hour back to back. Breathing In/Breathing Out (1977-1978) In Breathing In/Breathing Out, Abramović and Ulay connected their mouths with a piece they had devised, plugged their noses with cigarette filters (forcing them to breath through their mouths) and breathed into each other’s lungs over and over again until they used up all available oxygen and were only breathing carbon dioxide. Once both of their sets of lungs were filled with carbon dioxide, the couple collapsed to the floor, unconscious. To see a snippet, click here. Imponderabilia (1977 For Imponderabilia, Abramović and Ulay stood completely nude across from one another in a doorway, with just enough space for an average sized person to squeeze past between them, but not without having to brush up against them both. The test is to see if the subject chooses to face Abramović - the woman, or Ulay - the man. Some are more comfortable facing the person of their same gender, while others choose to face the person of the gender they’re attracted to, and others have a completely different take on what made up their mind. This performance was on display at the MoMA, this time modeled by two of Abramović’s students. My mother and I opted out of walking between the models, however my father did it, choosing to face the woman. I honestly couldn’t tell you which person I’d choose to face if given the opportunity once again to participate. I think it’d have a lot to do with the vibe I got from either individual in the moment. AAA-AAA (1978) In AAA-AAA, Abramović and Ulay stand across from one another with their mouths wide open, making the loudest, longest and most intense yelling sounds possibly. As time passed, they came closer and closer to each other until they eventually were yelling into each other’s mouths. The performance lasted around 15 minutes, with their yells falling out of sync from exhaustion. The purpose of the piece was to showcase endurance and the dynamic between man and woman. To see a snippet , click here. Rest Energy (1980) Rest Energy - my personal favorite collaboration of theirs - involved Abramović and Ulay leaning with all their bodyweight, hanging onto opposite ends of a drawn bow and arrow, with the arrow aimed directly at Abramović’s chest. With just one slip of his fingers, Ulay could potentially kill Abramović. Ulay having the power to let go of the arrow was intended to symbolize man’s assumed dominance over women. And Abramović’s handle on the bow was meant to symbolize her own power as a woman to determine the outcome of the situation. I love the idea behind this symbolism, but what makes this piece even more meaningful to me is how much she trusts Ulay to keep a steady hand and a level head as he carries her life in his hands. Nightsea Crossing (1981-1987) Abramović and Ulay performed Nightsea Crossing times in various locations all over the world. In these performances, they each sat facing each other in the same chairs across the same long mahogany dinner table, motionless in a “state of tranquility” for many hours at a time. This piece is meant to highlight the idea that while your body may be staying still, your mind can wander and function intensely. Abramović has been quoted stating that Nightsea Crossing was the beginning of the end for them, and that during one performance, when Ulay was unable to match her endurance, he gave up, leaving her to face an empty chair. And if this performance sounds familiar to you at all, you are two steps ahead of me! The Lovers The Nightsea Crossing performance timeline framed a very significant period in the couple’s relationship. Around 1980 when they first began performing it, they decided to get married - and they wanted to celebrate their union in one of the grandest romantic gestures I’ve ever heard performed in the modern day: walking from opposite ends of the Great Wall of China towards each other, in order to meet in the middle before wedding. They reached out to the Chinese Governmental for permission to carry out their performance, and waited for years to hear back. In the meantime, the couple drifted further and further from each other due to infidelities and irreconcilable differences among other issues. Around 1987, they were finally granted permission to scale the entirety of the wall. While they had already separated as a couple, they agreed to carry on with their plans, and each walk across half the wall to each other until meeting in the middle - when they would instead say their final goodbye. They each embarked on their 3-month long trek from opposite ends of the ~13,170 mile wonder of the world, Abramović starting at the Yellow Sea and Ulay starting from the Gobi desert. They stayed at inns along the way and communicated with their personal Chinese translators. Abramović has expressed in the past that part of her longed for a reconciliation between them when the performance had completed. But as the two of them met at the center of the wall, her longing for him as a romantic partner was in many ways replaced by strong feelings towards him as a comrade and fellow artist. It was an emotional finish for the both of them, as they knew it would be their last collaboration. However, this emotional time was made more complicated when Abramović was given the news that during the trek, Ulay had impregnated the Chinese translator who had accompanied him. Abramović has expressed that she was utterly heartbroken when she made the discovery. The daughter born out of the relationship was not Ulay’s first child. He has admitted to impregnating two women in the late ‘60s/early ‘70s and cutting ties with them both, as well as the two sons who resulted from those unions. He handled his relationship with the translator much differently, moving her to Amsterdam right before her due date and the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989. He helped her deliver their child - a daughter he named Luna after seeing the moon hanging prominently over the clinic on the night she was born. The couple stayed together for many years, traveling the world with Luna until she reached 17, when Ulay said his goodbyes to both women. While Abramović has been married twice - to Neša Paripović from 1971 to 1976 and to Italian contemporary artist Paolo Canevari from 2006 to 2009, she has never had any children. She has explained to media outlets that she has endured three abortions in her lifetime, feeling that having children would be “a disaster for [her] work.” She’s expressed that she believes that part of why women historically haven’t had the same opportunities and successes as men is because of commitments to their love lives and children. The Artist is Present In 2010, Abramović presented many of her most famous life works in a larger than life exhibit at the MoMA in New York that visitors such as myself will never forget. Before the exhibit, she trained 30 performance artists on how to carry out her work for the months that the exhibit was on display. She hosted them for a workshop at her home in the Hudson Valley during which she had them turn over their phones and other electronic devices to her and gear up for days of fasting, sleep deprivation, nude cohabitation and meditation in order to rid themselves of any self-consciousness that they may naturally harbor as a performer, and slow their bodies and minds down to be able to endure her most taxing performances. One of the artists she trained quoted her: “We’re not going to eat or speak for three days. You’ll hate me at the time, but you’ll love me forever after and do whatever I want.” To learn more about the exhibit, check out its official documentary here. The main attraction of the exhibit was the portion that Abramović herself would be involved in: The Artist is Present. Similarly to Nightsea Crossing, from the moment the museum opened to the hour it closed, she would sit at a chair across a table from another chair, which guests visiting the museum could take turns sitting at, to gaze into her eyes without saying a word, while being watched by hundreds of other museum visitors. The idea of the performance was that she would be able to deeply connect with the person sitting across from her without saying anything, bringing a large portion of the ~1000 participants to tears with just a gaze. While she was initially met with criticism for the concept, the performance was a major hit, which thousands of MoMA visitors lined up to participate in for hours and hours. It’s now become one of the most famous exhibits to ever take place at the museum. While photographs of many of her participant interactions garnered media coverage, her reaction to one particular guest not only went viral, but stole the attention of art communities all over the world: Ulay. The morning that Ulay visited the MoMA, he popped in for a visit with Abramović after 22 years apart. And later on in the day, he surprised her by participating in The Artist is Present. When Abramović opened her eyes to view her next participant and realized it was Ulay, she smiled bashfully. The two former lovers gazed into each others eyes, emotions presumably racing, with Abramović finally reaching across the table to hold his hands. The crowd around them burst into applause and cheers for the reunion of this iconic pair. As Ulay got up and walked away from the table, Abramović wiped tears from her face. The genuinity and emotion of the moment moved audiences around the world and will live on in the hearts of many following his recent passing. To watch their interaction, check out the video below. The Later Years I wish I could say that things between Abramović and Ulay were smooth-sailing from there, but in 2015 Ulay filed a lawsuit against Abramović, claiming that she had violated a contract they had for their shared works. Abramović was ordered by a Dutch court to pay Ulay $280,500 in royalties. I am happy to say that things turned around for their relationship in 2017, when Ulay attended a retrospective event for Abramović’s work at the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Denmark. Abramović has stated that at that event, they put all their anger and hate behind them to celebrate the lifetime of work they’d created. Abramović purchased her beloved star-shaped home in New York State in 2007 and expressed interest in moving to London in 2018. She continues to be a public figure in the art world, managing her performance art school the Marina Abramović Institute, and plans to recreate many of her most famous works at a 2020 exhibit at London’s Royal Academy. In 2011, Ulay was diagnosed with a lymphatic cancer. Director Damjan Kozole released the documentary Project Cancer: Ulay's journal from November to November, which covered Ulay’s cancer treatments as well as on-going work. Ulay’s recovered in 2014. While the cause of his death on March 2nd 2020 is still not known to the public, many suspect its related to his former illness. While this is a very sad time in the art community, it gives us an opportunity to look back on the extraordinary bond and collaboration between two people that will live on in infamy. Around the time of her 2017 retrospective event, Abramović told Christian Lund of the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, “Looking back, this relationship was extremely important for the history of performance art.” And I couldn’t agree more.


--- [Marina Abramović - Wikipedia] ---
Marina Abramović (Serbian Cyrillic: Марина Абрамовић, pronounced [marǐːna abrǎːmovitɕ]; born November 30, 1946) is a Serbian conceptual and performance artist. Her work explores body art, endurance art, the relationship between the performer and audience, the limits of the body, and the possibilities of the mind. Being active for over four decades, Abramović refers to herself as the "grandmother of performance art". She pioneered a new notion of artistic identity by bringing in the participation of observers, focusing on "confronting pain, blood, and physical limits of the body". In 2007, she founded the Marina Abramović Institute (MAI), a non-profit foundation for performance art.




--- [The Artists Are Present—Marina and Ulay - DailyArt Magazine] ---
10 Paintings About Love from the Dutch Golden Age Love is everywhere in 17th-century Dutch painting, but it rarely announces itself loudly. Instead, it is subtle and nuanced, seen through half-open... Tom Anderson 12 February 2026 Balkan performing artist Marina Abramović was born in 1946 in Belgrade, Serbia. Ulay (Frank Uwe Laysiepen) was born on the same day as she, a few years earlier, in another place, Solingen, Germany. They met for the first time in 1975 in Amsterdam, on the day of their joint birthday. She was 29, and he was 32. Also on this day, their long-term artistic partnership began. When they started living together as a couple and collaborating as an artistic duo in 1976, their main interest was to create performances and actions exploring physical and psychological limits. They blurred the line between art and life and made themselves the protagonists of their projects as tableaux vivants. They shared an unconditional love, artistic partnership, and a bond beyond life and death. Living in a van in Tibet, they traveled, experimented, destroyed each other, moved, adored each other, and worked together from 1976 to 1988 to create all these breathtaking performances we are going to explore. It was July 1976 when 300 visitors of the Venice Biennale witnessed the 58-minute performance of two bodies of Marina and Ulay repeatedly passing and bumping into each other. In the same manner as the other 13 performances from the Relation work series, the basic principle is: no rehearsal, no predicted end, no repetition. Approaching each other from different sides, their contact starts by touching each other almost accidentally, but then the walking gradually turns into running. Their contact increases into a climax, and due to this emotional development, the whole performance turns into an entirely different experience from what it looked like at the beginning. The performance Relation in Time, which took place at Studio G7 in Bologna, Italy, is a part of the performance series titled That Self. Abramović and Ulay were tied together by their hair, each looking in a different direction. They sat alone in silence for the first 16 hours, and visitors were allowed to attend the final hour. John Cage, a famous composer and one of the leading figures of the post-war avant-garde who had a great influence on Ulay and Abramović, called this performance “activity within inactivity.” The whole process was very demanding for the artists from both physical and mental points of view. They were looking for harmony between body and mind as well as an equilibrium among genders. This action revolves around the concept of polarity and tends to create an androgynous creature. It was a kind of continuation of Ulay’s previous artworks where he focused his attention on the gender question emerging in the 1960s. Next we go to Paris, 1977. Marina, Ulay, and their dog Alba are driving in their van round and round in circles inside a city square approximately 25 x 25 square meters in size. Ulay is behind the wheel, while through the open window Marina is shouting out the number of completed circles with a megaphone in her hand. As the couple had been living in the van for five years in an almost nomadic state, the whole household was engaged in the performance. In 16 hours, they made 2226 circles, and in the meantime, a black circle of tire marks appeared from the overheated vehicle. The circle could symbolize the circle around each other in a relationship or always moving around in the same circle of thought. Or maybe it could stand for the idea that life, or the relationship itself is cyclical and should be perceived as endless. At the opening of an art exhibition in June 1977, the artistic couple stood naked at the entrance of the Galleria dell’Arte Moderna in Bologna, Italy. They were standing opposite to each other in such a way that only a small space between them was left. The visitors had to pass through this gap between the two, unable to avoid physical contact. The crucial factor was that visitors had to decide whom to face as they passed. Marina and Ulay kept looking at each other motionless and without any facial expression, like statues forming a physical frame and confronting the involuntary participants to decide which side to face while exposing them to an uncomfortable experience. In this way, the viewer plays an active part in the performance and can experience various sensations from shame to an awareness of their own body. The definition of the word Imponderabilia or imponderable means: not ponderable: meaning incapable of being weighed or evaluated with exactness. In the same way, it is impossible to value with exactness the reaction of each visitor. The 20-minute performance Light/Dark took place for the first time in October 1977 at the International Art Fair in Cologne, Germany. One year later, it was filmed by Luis van Gasteren in a studio in Amsterdam. Ulay and Marina face each other in a kneeling position and take turns slapping each other hard in the face. Due to the strong light shining onto their faces, they cannot see the partner’s slap coming from the dark. Light/Dark reflects on the relationship between man and woman. However, it is not about pain or physical harm, despite the fact that slapping is normally associated with hurting someone. As Abramović says: It is not the pain itself that matters. We never did things for the pleasure of pain. We were looking for a key, a way to break through the body, to open something up, which is a desire that comes from another side of truth or reality. Marina Abramović This performance was recorded in April 1977 in Belgrade and pursues the question of duality. Ulay and Marina, connected by their mouths, share their breath without external access to oxygen. Thus, they depended on each other to stay alive for almost 20 minutes and ended up collapsing. Metaphorically, this action deals with the death of the self, trying to unite and absorb one another’s lives until their destruction. This performance from 1978, with no audience in Liège, shows the couple yelling at each other. It was a follow-up to Freeing the Voice, a Marina Abramović solo-performance from 1976 in which the woman artist shouted herself out. The whole action centers on the relationship between two lovers and the purification of body and mind. Rest Energy, recorded in 1980 at Filmstudio in Amsterdam and part of the That Self series, is one of the most life-endangering performances by Marina and Ulay. Each of them held in their hand one item: Marina, a large bow, and Ulay, an arrow pointing directly at her heart. The result creates a dense tension. From the microphones attached to their clothes, a quick heartbeat and irregular breathing for seemingly infinitely long four minutes can be heard. The performance ended with the dropping of the bow. Nightsea Crossing is a series of 22 performances that took place between 1981 and 1987 in 19 different locations around the world. For each performance the same two chairs and mahogany table were used. What varies is the setting (museum or an open space environment), the day, and the color of their clothing (often monochromatic). The artists described the performance like this: Nightsea Crossing is an epic 90 days work in which a period of fast and silence is involved, prior to and during the actual performance. The performance consists of seven daily hours of concentration while sitting motionless in a state of tranquillity. Marina Abramović. Pomeranz Collection. Both artists, sitting on chairs facing each other, explored their inner consciousness without any psychological obstacles (the only physical obstacle for them was the table). They did not eat nor drink during the performances, nor directly before or even afterwards. Nightsea Crossing is about concentration and control over the body. It is about being present for long periods, until presence rises and falls, from material to immaterial, from form to formless, from instrumental to mental, from time to timeless. In Nightsea Crossing Conjunction, which took place in April 1983 at the Fodor Museum in Amsterdam, the rectangular table was exchanged for a round one, made especially for the occasion and wrapped in gold foil. To make it different and exceptional, Ulay and Marina invited in this “silent symposium” two other guests: a Lama from Tibet and a member of the Pintupi tribe from the Central Australian Desert. This rare Nightsea Crossing is apparently about the symbolism of the number four. Four chairs around the table faced north, south, east, and west. Four days in a row, four participants dressed in red or orange, sitting for four hours at a time, without exchanging a word. The performance was held at specific times of the day: sunrise, noon, sunset, and midnight. Due to the universal number of four, which can be found in all parts of the performance, the artists reached a level of conjunction and integration into a larger cosmic structure. In 1988, Ulay and Marina decided to end their relationship with a legendary performance, which became also the endpoint of their collaboration. For the project The Lovers: The Great Wall Walk, the artists started walking from different ends of the Great Wall of China to later meet in the middle and say goodbye to each other. Ulay started his path in the Gobi Desert, and Marina began at the Yellow Sea. They set out on a journey through one of the seven wonders of the world to hug each other in its midst for the last time. Their separation measured 2,500 km and lasted three months. 2,500 km to say goodbye, 90 days, two people, two paths, one common destination. If nothing else, The Great Wall Walk has to be considered the perfect end of the common oeuvre. Last but not least, I would like to mention Marina’s performance in 2010, which took place in the Museum of Modern Art in New York. For two and a half months, Marina Abramović sat in a chair, in front of her was a table, again, as in the Nightsea Crossings. The opposite chair invited viewers to sit and engage in a silent conversation in front of a live audience. Dozens, hundreds, thousands of people attended. Then a man comes to the table, whose movements indicate that he won’t be just an ordinary spectator. When his gaze meets the gaze of the hostess, everyone knows why. It’s Ulay. What happens next is three minutes of unprecedented sadness and beauty at the same time. During their brief encounter, they shared so much without saying a word, a non-verbal exchange of curiosity, feeling, and understanding. What happened next, you can see here: DailyArt Magazine needs your support. Every contribution, however big or small, is very valuable for our future. Thanks to it, we will be able to sustain and grow the Magazine. Thank you for your help!


--- [Ulay] ---
Frank Uwe Laysiepen (German: [fʁaŋk ˈʔuːvə laɪˈziːpm̩]; 30 November 1943 – 2 March 2020), known professionally as Ulay, was a German artist based in Amsterdam and Ljubljana, who received international recognition for his Polaroid art and collaborative performance art with longtime companion Marina Abramović.




--- [Ulay, 1943–2020 - ArtReview] ---
The artist Ulay, known for his seminal performance collaboration with former partner Marina Abramović, has died. Real name Frank Uwe Laysiepen, the artist met met Abramović in 1976 in Amsterdam. They embarked on a 12 year working partnership, as well as becoming lovers, with works including Relation in Space (1976), in which they ran into each other repeatedly for an hour; Relation in Movement (1977) in which the pair drove 365 laps around the inside of a museum in a car; Relation in Time (1977) in which they sat back to back, tied together by their ponytails for sixteen hours. In 1980 they performed Rest Energy in Dublin, in which they counter-balanced each other on opposite sides of a drawn bow and arrow, the arrow pointed at Abramović’s heart with potential to kill. Between 1981 and 1987, the pair performed Nightsea Crossing in 22 performances, sitting silently across from each other for seven hours a day. In 1988 the couple split in suitably performative fashion, walking from opposite sides of the Great Wall of China and ending their relationship as they met in the middle. Abramović and Ulay have had a tempestuous relationship since, with decades of not speaking. In 2015 Ulay sued his former partner in the Dutch courts claiming Abramović had violated a contract regarding their shared work. Ulay was awarded €250,000 in unpaid royalties. A much reported reunion took place at Abramović’s smash The Artist Is Present retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, in which the artist sat opposite members of the public. Abramović was seemingly unaware that Ulay planned to take part in the work, crying as he took a seat opposite her. In 2017 however Abramović told the Louisiana Channel “All the anger and all the hate” had gone between the pair. “I think of this life that left this really beautiful work that we left behind, and this is what matters.” In a post on Instagram, Abramov responded to Ulay’s death: ‘It is with great sadness I learned about my friend and former partner Ulay’s death today. He was an exceptional artist and human being, who will be deeply missed. On this day, it is comforting to know that his art and legacy will live on forever.’ 2 March 2020
