=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of first openly LGBTQ politicians in the United States]
In addition to the politicians listed below, Jenny Durkan, who served as United States attorney for the Western District of Washington from 2009 to 2014, is believed to be the first openly gay United States attorney. [1] Furthermore, in 2013, Demetrios Marantis became the first openly LGBTQ person to serve in a cabinet-level position in the Cabinet of the United States, serving in the Cabinet ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_first_openly_LGBTQ_politicians_in_the_United_States

[Oregon's Kate Brown to Become America's 1st Openly Bisexual Governor]
Feb 13, 2015 · Now that Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber is resigning, the secretary of state, Kate Brown, will replace him and become the first openly bisexual governor in the U.S.
URL: https://abcnews.com/Politics/oregons-kate-brown-americas-1st-openly-bisexual-governor/story?id=28953532

[Kate Brown Just Became America's First-Ever Openly Bisexual Governor]
Feb 19, 2015 · Although no bisexual person has ever been elected governor, openly bisexual people have served in state and national legislatures since 1997, when Evelyn Mantilla became the first openly bisexual state official as a a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives – where she remained until 2007.
URL: https://feminist.org/news/kate-brown-just-became-americas-first-ever-openly-bisexual-governor/

[#Pride30: Kate Brown embraces status as first LGBTQ elected governor]
Jun 23, 2017 · Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, who is openly bisexual, made big news in the 2016 election, but she's been steadily working for LGBTQ equality for three decades.
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/nbc-out-pride30/pride30-gov-kate-brown-nation-s-first-lgbtq-elected-governor-n774251

[A Brief History of Civil Rights in the United States: Harvey Milk]
Harvey Milk made history as the first openly gay elected official in California, and one of the first in the United States.
URL: https://library.law.howard.edu/civilrightshistory/lgbtq/harveymilk


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of first openly LGBTQ politicians in the United States] ---
This is a list of the first openly LGBTQ people to have held political office in the United States. No openly LGBTQ person has served as President, Vice President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, or as a justice on the Supreme Court. However, all 50 states have elected openly LGBTQ people to political office in some capacity, and 48 states have elected openly LGBTQ people to either or both chambers of their state legislature.
A total of five openly LGBTQ people have served in the Cabinet of the United States or in a cabinet-level office: Scott Bessent, Pete Buttigieg, Demetrios Marantis, Richard Grenell, and Vince Micone.
A total of ten states and one territory have elected a total of fourteen openly LGBTQ people to statewide or territorywide elected offices: Jared Polis, Maura Healey, Tina Kotek, Kate Brown, Tammy Baldwin, Kyrsten Sinema, Dana Nessel, Kris Mayes, Ricardo Lara, Kevin Lembo, Josh Tenorio, Benjamin Cruz, Sarah McBride, and John S. Arrowood.
A total of three of the eight most populous cities in the United States have elected a total of three openly LGBTQ people as mayor: Todd Gloria, Lori Lightfoot, and Annise Parker.




--- [Oregon's Kate Brown to Become America's 1st Openly Bisexual Governor] ---
Oregon's Kate Brown to Become America’s 1st Openly Bisexual Governor Meet the incoming governor of Oregon replacing John Kitzhaber. — -- Now that Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber has announced his resignation, the secretary of state, Kate Brown, will replace him and become the first openly bisexual governor in the United States. Brown wrote a short piece about coming out as bisexual while serving in the state House of Representatives in 1992. “It wasn’t until it was written in the Oregonian newspaper that I was bisexual that I had to face the inevitable and let those around me know. Thus began my very public coming out as a bisexual,” she wrote in an essay for “Out and Elected in the USA,” an online compendium of the stories of LGBT public officials from 1974 to 2004. First, she informed her parents, who told her, “It would be much easier for us if you were a lesbian.” Her gay friends called her “half-queer.” And she also told her straight friends, “who never thought I could make up my mind about anything anyway.” She said she came out to her legislative colleagues “most frighteningly” and shared this anecdote in her essay: “At the beginning of the next legislative session sitting in the House lounge, representative Bill Markham, who is over 70 years old, extremely conservative, and a legislator for more than 20 years comes to join me. Over lunch he looks up to say, ‘Read in the Oregonian a few months ago you were bisexual. Guess that means I still have a chance?!’” The Bay Area Reporter recounted a campaign trip she made to San Francisco in November 2007 when she was a state senator campaigning for secretary of state along with Annise Parker, now the first openly gay mayor elected to run one of the nation’s largest cities -- Houston. The Reporter quoted Brown as saying, during a Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund event, "I'd be the first LGBT candidate elected to the second-highest office in the state.” "I have been receiving checks in the mail from all over the country. To have that support from the national LGBT community is really wonderful and exciting," she added at the time. Brown married her husband, Dan, in 1997 and has two stepchildren.


--- [Kate Brown Just Became America's First-Ever Openly Bisexual Governor] ---
No content


--- [#Pride30: Kate Brown embraces status as first LGBTQ elected governor] ---
Kate Brown might be the only American governor who wears a leather jacket to work. But the former lawyer is used to casually breaking through boundaries in politics. One of just a small handful of women overseeing state executive branches across the country, Brown also made history in 2016 when she became the first openly LGBTQ person to be elected governor of a U.S. state. "I didn’t even know anyone in the early 90’s who identified as bisexual," Brown, a Democrat, tells NBC Out during a sit-down interview at the Oregon statehouse in Salem. As a young member of the Oregon House of Representatives in 1993, Brown said, she casually mentioned she was bisexual in a conversation with a reporter without thinking much of it. A couple of years later, she was outed in a newspaper story about the legislature's LGBTQ caucus. "I had to talk to my parents about it," she said. But being forced out of the closet brought some surprising lessons. Brown quickly learned that even her more conservative Republican colleagues, representing Oregon's rural communities, just didn't care about her sexual orientation. Ever since, Brown has worn her LGBTQ identity with pride — frequently participating in Portland's pride parade, as well as national and local LGBTQ equality efforts. All along the way, Brown has dug her heels into Oregon state politics while gaining national attention as one of the highest-profile bisexuals in elected office. She went from Oregon's House of Representatives to the Oregon State Senate, and she became the state's first woman Senate Majority Leader in 2004. She was then elected Oregon Secretary of State in 2008. Even in state elections, Brown said it was support from the national LGBTQ community that helped her win. She credits her success in the 2008 Secretary of State campaign to the Victory Fund, the political action group that stumps for LGBTQ candidates all over the country and helped raise the hundreds of thousands Brown needed to win. "I truly believe their support was absolutely crucial to my garnering the Democratic nomination in that primary," Brown said. The Victory Fund knew just how important that little statewide race was: In Oregon, the Secretary of State is next in line to become governor if the sitting governor should resign. It's a scenario that rarely occurs anywhere in the country — and Brown recalled laughing about the idea with colleagues. "We thought, that's never going to happen!" But then it did. The state's longest-serving governor, John Kitzhaber, resigned amid a scandal over his fiancee's role in the administration. Suddenly, Brown was the governor by default. And after a year of solid leadership preceded by decades of dogged, wonky commitment to state policy, the people gave Brown their vote. "I’ve been upfront with Oregonians about who I am," Brown said. "What they want is someone who can do a really great job and get things done." When it comes to getting things done, Brown is all brass tacks. On the day of NBC Out's visit to the Oregon State Capitol, the governor signed a bill making it easier — and more private — for people to change their gender and name on identity documents. It is Oregon's first transgender equality bill, and the signing took place just two weeks before the state also voted to add a third sex field to driver's licenses and state ID cards in a historic national first. It all seems so quick now, but Brown has been working for years to make such progressive changes possible. "I literally worked from 1991 to the spring of 2007 to pass the nondiscrimination law," Brown said of the Oregon Equality Act that made the state one of the first in the country to ban discrimination based on both sexual orientation and gender identity. Because of that law, a local bakery (Sweet Cakes by Melissa) that told a lesbian couple it wouldn't cater a same-sex wedding gained national media attention after a civil rights violation was filed. Related: Judge Grants Oregon Resident Right to Be Genderless Brown's determination to see Oregon fulfill its promise as a bastion of equality extends beyond the LGBTQ community, of course. In February, shortly after President Donald Trump signed an order blocking U.S. entry to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries as well as refugees from around the world, Brown reacted with her own executive order. The order prohibited state employees from helping to create the Muslim registry Trump's campaign promised, and it blocked all state agencies from treating undocumented immigrants as criminals or discriminating against them. Even with all she's done to make Oregon inclusive, Brown said there's much left to be done. The May stabbing of three Portlanders, who jumped up to protect two black teen girls the attacker thought were Muslim, reminded Brown that parts of Oregon still cling to an ugly past. "Oregon has a horrendous history regarding racism," Brown said, noting that much of the population is "traumatized" by the events that took place on Portland's light rail train on May 26. "I am so committed to this fight for justice and equity," Brown added with emotion shaking her voice. "But I think every day we need to recommit ourselves."


--- [A Brief History of Civil Rights in the United States: Harvey Milk] ---
"I know that you cannot live on hope alone, but without it, life is not worth living. And you ... and you ... and you ... have got to give them hope." -Harvey Milk, "You Cannot Live on Hope Alone" speech When he won the election to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977, Harvey Milk made history as the first openly gay elected official in California, and one of the first in the United States. His camera store and campaign headquarters at 575 Castro Street (and his apartment above it) were centers of community activism for a wide range of human rights, environmental, labor, and neighborhood issues. During his tenure as supervisor, he helped pass a gay rights ordinance for the city of San Francisco that prohibited anti-gay discrimination in housing and employment. Harvey Milk has been honored twice under President Obama's administration. First, he was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009. In 2014, he was honored by the United States Postal Service with a Forever Stamp in 2014.
