=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Yohji Yamamoto - Wikipedia]
Early life and education Yohji Yamamoto was born on 3 October 1943 in Tokyo as the eldest son of his father, Fumio Yamamoto, who ran a company that sold prepared foods to department stores in Kabukicho, and his mother, Fumi Yamamoto, who helped with accounting and administrative work.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yohji_Yamamoto

[Mother's dressmaking shop in the ruins of the war: Yohji Yamamoto (2 ...]
Apr 2, 2022 — Mother's dressmaking shop in the ruins of the war: Yohji Yamamoto (2) ... On Oct. 3, 1943, as the Pacific War was becoming more intense each day, ...
URL: https://asia.nikkei.com/spotlight/my-personal-history/yohji-yamamoto/mother-s-dressmaking-shop-in-the-ruins-of-the-war-yohji-yamamoto-2

[Yohji Yamamoto - Working with Popular Culture - Hans Coppens]
In doing so his mother once again fully supported him by selling her own shop to help her son out. She even let Yohji take one of her most loyal employees, Takayuki Kurihara, who is still employed with Yohji as his pattern chief.
URL: https://hanscoppens.net/workingwithpopularculture/the_magazine/fashion_city/yohji_yamamoto/

[Mother's dressmaking shop in the ruins of war: Yohji Yamamoto ...]
After the war, my mother never remarried and raised her only son while running her dressmaking shop. Perhaps it was that she wanted to keep her faith in my father and to show the Yamamoto family, especially the second wife, that she could make it on her own.
URL: https://usedinternetshop.com/blogs/blog/mothers-dressmaking-shop-in-the-ruins-of-war-yohji-yamamoto-2

[Rei Kawakubo and Yohji Yamamoto: The Story of a Dressmaker and a ...]
Causing her to reflect it into her clothing: styling her school uniform in unconventional ways and wearing the clothing her mother had made outside of school. Similar to Rei's mother, Yohji Yamamoto's mother made clothing as a seamstress, helping in her shop from time to time and gaining experience.
URL: https://therosshall.substack.com/p/rei-kawakubo-and-yohji-yamamoto-the


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Yohji Yamamoto - Wikipedia] ---
Yohji Yamamoto (山本 耀司, Yamamoto Yōji; born 3 October 1943) is a Japanese fashion designer based in Tokyo and Paris. He is considered a master tailor, alongside those such as Madeleine Vionnet, and is best known for his avant-garde tailoring featuring Japanese design aesthetics.
Yamamoto has won notable awards for his contributions to fashion, including the Chevalier/Officier/Commandeur of Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, Medal of Honor with Purple Ribbon, the Ordre national du Mérite, the Royal Designer for Industry and the Master of Design award by Fashion Group International.


--- [Mother's dressmaking shop in the ruins of the war: Yohji Yamamoto (2 ...] ---
On Oct. 3, 1943, as the Pacific War was becoming more intense each day, I was born to my father, Fumio Yamamoto and my mother, Fumi. My father owned a food wholesaler in Kabukicho, a district in Tokyo's Shinjuku Ward, that sold side dishes to department stores. My mother helped with the accounting and office work.


--- [Yohji Yamamoto - Working with Popular Culture - Hans Coppens] ---
Yohji Yamamoto Non-conformist He was born in Yokohama, Japan on the 3rd of October 1943 and had his first show in Paris, 1981. After his first showing there was a lot of controversy in the fashion media concerning his clothes. While the clothes usually shown were extravagant, he totally clashed with the image of Paris fashion week with his first collection, which showed women in oversized dark clothing and hats covering their faces. The media coverage even went as far as describing the clothes he showcased as “Hiroshima” or “holocaust chic”. Although there was a lot of controversy, it did not stop his clothes from getting a great following across the world. Due to him being born in post-war time Japan, the world he grew up in was one of destruction and reconstruction. Which he thinks might be part of the reason why he makes his clothes the way he does. Due to the war he also never knew his father, this resulted in him holding a grudge against the world, which he says he might be conveying unconsciously. Growing up in this bleak post-war Japan he only had his mother, Fumi, to rely on. His mother ran her own dressmaking shop in Kabukicho, Tokyo. By working hard, she made sure she could provide her son a good education. Which she did as Yohji graduated from Keio University (1966) with a degree in law. Be he never practiced in his life, not even one day. He rather started helping his mother’s business, this Yohji did for five-six years, he hated it. Afterwards he decided to pursue a career in fashion by going to study in the famous Bunka Fashion college in Tokyo, where he graduated in 1969. The same year he won a fashion price to go to Paris. Arriving in Paris he witnessed the first ready-to-wear collections of all the big names in Fashion (Balenciaga, Chanel…). Yet instead of being mesmerized by the pieces of art presented by these designer everyone looked up to, he felt nothing, he felt totally alienated from what he saw. He returned to Japan at the age of 26, and he was ready to leave his own imprint on the fashion world by defying everything it stood for. In doing so his mother once again fully supported him by selling her own shop to help her son out. She even let Yohji take one of her most loyal employees, Takayuki Kurihara, who is still employed with Yohji as his pattern chief. He started with a few raincoats he tried to sell in Japan and they soon got popular. At the beginning he had a map of japan, on which he marked the place that sold his clothing. Promptly his map was completely marked and he and his then girlfriend Rei Kawakubo were then ready to go overseas with their own luxury label. Impression of his clothes He debuted his first collection in Paris (1981), and completely silenced the West with what he showed. They did not know how to react to his women’s collection lacking any femininity, consisting almost solely out of black loose-fitting clothing. Critiques did not know how to describe him, as he did not conform to any of the norms established by the then western dominated fashion scene. However unintentionally he completely revolutionised what was thought to be women’s couture. Even the long standing image people had of femininity was turned upside down by him. However the only thing he did was convey his image of what is feminine. Not the typical sexy allure, which was present in all couture at the time, by accentuating every part of the female body with a piece of tight-fitting cloth trying to be as extravagant as possible, on the contrary he likes to depict them as a sexy, yet mysterious by hiding their silhouette in these oversized garments in almost exclusively black, lacking any decorations. Men's clothing is more pure in design. It's more simple and has no decoration. Women want that. When I started designing, I wanted to make men's clothes for women. But there were no buyers for it. Now there are. I always wonder who decided that there should be a difference in the clothes of men and women. Perhaps men decided this. --Yohji Yamamoto Another inspiration for his clothing is the strength manifested by his hard working mother, this he tries to convey through dressing women in suits, which are a symbol of power and status, then exclusively worn by men. This touches upon another subject which he likes to confront people with, the borders concerning gender. He rarely made clothing conforming to the prescribed gender roles. He likes to play with these notions by dressing women in loose shirts or pants and in contrast dressing men in skirts. Characteristics of his tailoring His clothing embody the essences of (traditional) Japanese fabric manipulation, through the use of the concepts of wabi ( meaning ‘rustic simplicity’) and sabi ( meaning ‘ beauty that comes with age’). These concepts also include asymmetry, simplicity and modesty. For example the blended wool coats of his 1983 collection are a prime example of these concepts. Although these concepts might have looked innovative to the public, but this is only from a Western standpoint, because these are core concepts of the Japanese culture. This fact was later made known to the world through the 1986’s “Japon des Avant Gardes 1910-1970” ( Japanese Avant-Garde 1910-1970) exhibition held in the Centre Pompidou, Paris. This was not the end to Yohji’s revolutionizing of the use and shapes of fabric. Yohji also liked to focus on the space in between the fabric and the body, this enables a balance between the person wearing the garment while leaving the fabric in a natural state. This empty space is part of another Japanese aesthetic called ‘ma’ ( means space). He likes to use the body to makes the characteristics of the fabric stand out, instead of making the fabric in a shape that accentuates the human body. For example by twisting and wrapping fabric, instead of cutting it in the desired shape, he leaves it in its natural state. These natural and straightforward designs are based on the design of the Japanese kimono, which if unworn is a flat and straight-cut piece of fabric. I think perfection is ugly. Somewhere in the things humans make, I want to see scars, failure, disorder, distortion. -- Yohji Yamamoto These ideas of scars, failure, disorder, distortion he mentions are another core aspect of his clothes. The idea of deconstruction he so generously imbues in his garments are inspired by the destruction he witnessed in his youth, the ugliness he sees in his everyday landscape, but also the disassociation he felt with Western clothes. It was a way of showing he disagrees with the view of the West to make things beautiful, while in reality it isn’t. He wants to embody these dark and usually avoided parts of life. He prefers the raw beauty of this ugliness. This all gave birth to clothing that seem unfinished, because of the loose seems, roughly attached pockets, irregular hems and so forth. This message he likes convey is then all held together and enhanced by the bleakness of the shades of black in which he usually dabbles. All these characteristics are held together by his selection of fabric, yarn and other often missing accessories made into the shape of garments admired and worn by people all over the world. Sources: books: - Gauthier, Coralie, and Paul Boudens. Yamamoto & Yohji. New York: Rizzoli, 2014. - Yamamoto, Yohji, and Ai Mitsuda. My Dear Bomb: Yohji Yamamoto. Antwerp: Ludion, 2010. - English, Bonnie. Japanese Fashion Designers: The Work and Influence of Issey Miyake, Yohji Yamamoto and Kawakubo. Berg, 2011. Peer-reviewed article: -Lalloo-Morar, Sandhya. "Design Innovation by Japanese Designers Miyake, Kawakubo, and Yamamoto." In Berg Encyclopedia of World Dress and Fashion: East Asia, edited by John E. Vollmer. Oxford: Berg Publishers, 2010. Accessed May 18, 2019. http://dx.doi.org/10.2752/BEWDF/EDch61211. online article: - Alexander, Hilary. "The Yohji Yamamoto Stor." The Telegraph. July 01, 2010. Accessed May 14, 2019. http://fashion.telegraph.co.uk/news-features/TMG7866254/The-Yohji-Yamamoto-story.html. - Blanchard, Tamsin. "Yohji Yamamoto: 30 Years at the Cutting Edge." The Telegraph. February 06, 2011. Accessed March 26, 2019. http://fashion.telegraph.co.uk/news-features/TMG8298329/Yohji-Yamamoto-30-years-at-the-cutting-edge.html. - Duka, John. "YOHJI YAMAMOTO DEFINES HIS FASHION FASHION PHILOSOPHY." The New York Times. October 23, 1983. Accessed May 18, 2019. https://www.nytimes.com/1983/10/23/style/yohji-yamamoto-defines-his-fashion-fashion-philosophy.html. - Irvine, Susan. "Yohji Wear." The Telegraph. September 18, 2001. Accessed May 14, 2019. http://fashion.telegraph.co.uk/news-features/TMG3290348/Yohji-wear.html. - Marzel, Shoshana-Rose, Dr. "Yohji Yamamoto Designer, Artist, Thinker." Design Museum Holon - Magazine. June 28, 2012. Accessed February 19, 2019. http://www.dmh.org.il/magazine/magazine.aspx?id=141&IssuesId=9. - Mears, Patricia. "Yohji Yamamoto." LoveToKnow. Accessed May 18, 2019. https://fashion-history.lovetoknow.com/fashion-clothing-industry/fashion-designers/yohji-yamamoto. Documentary: - "Yohji Yamamoto." Yohji Yamamoto | This Is My Dream. Accessed May 18, 2019. http://thisismydreamthefilm.com/main/. - Aldama, Ingrid. "Notebook on Cities and Clothes." MUBI. November 10, 2017. Accessed March 19, 2019. https://mubi.com/films/notebook-on-cities-and-clothes.


--- [Mother's dressmaking shop in the ruins of war: Yohji Yamamoto ...] ---
No content


--- [Rei Kawakubo and Yohji Yamamoto: The Story of a Dressmaker and a ...] ---
Rei Kawakubo and Yohji Yamamoto: The Story of a Dressmaker and a Textile Manufacturer Rei Kawakubo’s Comme Des Garçons and Yohji Yamamoto are two luxury fashion brands that have made drastic waves in the fashion industry, both internationally and domestically in Japan. From their early lives, upbringing, and outlook on fashion and the role it plays in society, both the contrasts and similarities can be seen in almost every aspect of their brand and personal lives. In post-World War II Tokyo, Japan, two soon-to-be fashion pioneers were born. The aftermath of the war led to the birth of Rei Kawakubo on October 11th, 1942, and Yohji Yamamoto nearly a year later, on October 4th, 1943. The traditional role of women in Japan during the 1940s was dissimilar in comparison to today's world. Following the end of World War II, Japanese women were expected to follow various traditional roles as caregivers while also replacing jobs previously performed by men who had lost their lives in the war: aircraft factories, textile manufacturers, electrical factories, and more. With these social norms in mind, Rei Kawakubo's parents divorced while she was still very young, as a result of her mother wanting to pursue her dream of becoming a school teacher. As uncommon as divorce was in 1940s Tokyo, Japan, Rei Kawakubo began to feel like an outcast among peers her age. Causing her to reflect it into her clothing: styling her school uniform in unconventional ways and wearing the clothing her mother had made outside of school. Similar to Rei’s mother, Yohji Yamamoto's mother made clothing as a seamstress, helping in her shop from time to time and gaining experience. Yohji had also been raised in a single-parent household. After being drafted into the war, his father passed away while on duty in the mountains of the Philippines. This had caused Yohji to feel deep resentment towards war, which later reflected in his work. Although both Rei and Yohji made the decision to pursue a higher education, the paths they initially took began in different directions. Rei Kawakubo began studying at Keio University in Tokyo, Japan, coincidentally or not, where her father had worked at the time. During this time, Rei wasn’t interested in pursuing a career in fashion; rather, she studied fine arts, where she was introduced to a multitude of mediums, styles, and art subjects. Soon after, Yohji Yamamoto enrolled at Keio University. Similar to Rei, the idea of pursuing a career in fashion wasn’t there; in fact, Yohji began studying a subject quite far from the arts, receiving his degree in law in 1966. Realizing that a career in law wasn’t suitable, Yohji attended the Bunka Fashion College in Tokyo, graduating in 1969. Yohji returned to helping his mother at her job as a seamstress and began taking on job opportunities in fashion in both France and Japan. After graduating from Keio, Rei moved to the Harajuku District, working as a textile manufacturer. During World War II, Harajuku was used for military purposes. After the war, urbanization began, inviting foreigners, especially American families. With the newfound western influence, the youth in Harajuku began developing their own style, creating what we know today as the Harajuku District, known as the fashion district of Japan. After using the textiles at her job to construct garments in order to sell the textiles, her talent was noticed by her colleagues, who advised her to begin her own line of clothing. After two years of freelance styling, Rei Kawakubo launched her own clothing brand in 1969 named Comme Des Garçons ("Like the Boys"), named after a lyric in the French song Tous Les Garçons et Les Filles by Françoise Hardy. Comme Des Garçons and Yohji Yamamoto have shown artistic correspondence since the beginning of their establishments. Rei Kawakubo’s Comme Des Garçons is known for its heavy usage of the color black and greatly abstract garments, as evident in her "Body Meets Dress, Dress Meets Body" collection, where models are seen wearing exaggerated padding on places such as the hips, posterior, abdomen, and shoulders. Because of Rei’s excessive use of the color black, both Rei Kawakubo and her fans were referred to as ‘The Crows’ by the media. This term, as well as influence from British punk, led to the Karasu Zoku ("Crow Tribe") movement in Japan, where members of Karasu Zoku were seen wearing all black designer clothing. With Yohji Yamamoto’s brand and multitude of lines, the color palette is almost entirely black. When discussing his brand and Rei’s rise in France, the designer stated, "Mine and Comme des Garçons outfits were very far from their sense of beauty. For European people, our creations looked very dirty and ugly. (Inside Yohji Yamamoto's Fashion Philosophy)" With the avant-garde and otherworldly looks both fashion houses presented on the runway, the two designers were categorized as pioneers of the ‘anti-fashion’ movement, which they shared with other designers. Gender plays a role in many industries and occupations. In fashion, how gender is perceived in the eyes of its consumers is in the hands of the designers. While Rei Kawakubo and Yohji Yamamoto have shown parallels in both their lives and art, when it comes to gender philosophy, a contrast is shown between the two. Yohji Yamamoto continued to create lines under the brand while still releasing menswear and womenswear under the same line. He primarily focused on fusing together women's and menswear by putting women in men's clothing. Doing so, Yohji began creating coats in 1977 that reflected this. The coats reflected a masculine silhouette, as he believed women wearing men's clothing was a form of modesty. The coats were said to protect women from ‘men’s eyes’ or the ‘cold wind’. Rei Kawakubo launched a separate line, as most fashion houses do, specifically for men, named Comme Des Garçons Hommes Plus. Rei believed that the disruption of men's fashion was more impactful and dramatic in comparison to altering women's clothing. She did so by infusing unconventional colors, textiles, and shapes into men's cloting, as well as designing deconstructed men's suits for over forty years, as evident in her Spring/Summer 2019 collection for Comme Des Garçons Hommes Plus. Rei at times felt trapped in the box of ‘Japanese fashion’. The media have dubbed the designer and her clothing ‘Hiroshima Chic’ and ‘post-atomic’. On the contrary, Yohji Yamamoto embraced traditional Japanese clothing into his designs but also finds discomfort in being referred to as "the Japanese designer..." in the press. With the overwhelming amount of alikeness the two have, there are elements of variance between the two. Other than sharing creative inspiration and values, the two have shared a professional and romantic relationship during the 1980s and 1990s. Both received acclaim and criticism for their work, which redefined what it means to be a designer. Setting aside all the distinctions and similarities, there is a rare commonality the two share. With every collection, runway show, new boutique, and interview, the designers revert back to their roots. Yohji, using black in his garments as a reflection of his mother's attire after her father's death, and Rei's Kawakubo exhibit in The Met Museum of deconstructed and unorthodox garments mirror the outcast Japanese schoolgirl who redesigned and modified her school uniform. The dressmaker and the textile manufacturer, navigating through the post-war world.
