=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nuwakot, Bagmati Province]
Nuwakot Palace ; Nickname: City of Nine Hills ; Nuwakot is located in Bagmati Province. Nuwakot. Location in Bagmati. Nuwakot is located in Nepal. Nuwakot.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuwakot,_Bagmati_Province

[Nuwakot: The City of Nine Hills]
Famous as the 'City of Nine Hills', Nuwakot is a part of Bagmati Province that holds historical importance in Nepal history and is located on the bank of ...
URL: https://nepaltraveller.com/sidetrack/nuwakot-the-city-of-nine-hills

[Nuwakot District]
This has led to Nuwakot often being referred to as the "City of Nine Hills". The Gorkhali king Prithivi Narayan Shah invaded Nuwakot, which was under the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuwakot_District

[Nuwakot Nepal | Nuwakot Palace & Durbar Square]
Together they look after the valley, giving Nuwakot district the name City of Nine Hills. ... Nepal is known for its diversity in ethnic cultures. Nuwakot is like ...
URL: https://www.holidify.com/country/nepal/nuwakot-sightseeing-124805.html

[Explore Nepal]
Famous as the 'City of Nine Hills', Nuwakot holds historical importance in Nepal's history. Nuwakot Palace was built by Nepal's first king Prithvi Naryan Shah ...
URL: https://www.beyondtheclouds.org.nz/explore-nepal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nuwakot, Bagmati Province] ---
Nuwakot (Nepali: नुवाकोट) is a town in central Nepal, serving as the namesake of the district of the same name. The town is located on the bank of Trishuli and Tadi Rivers. It is located around 60 kilometres west of Kathmandu, and is known as a historic town which was the capital of the Valley in the days before the unification of Nepal by Prithvi Narayan Shah, and for more than 1,000 years the hilltop had served as a lookout and fort (kot) guarding the western entrance to Kathmandu Valley. Nuwakot served as an important trading hub for the Malla kings of the Valley, and was along a major transit route used for trade between India and Tibet (via Kerung). Making the Nuwakot hill as main forts including other eight forts: Malakot, Simalkot, Bhairabkot, Belkot, Kalikot, Salyankot, Dhuwankot and Pyaskot in its surrounding area, collectively named as 'Nawakotta' (Nine forts).
Because of its significance, the fort was a target for conquest by neighboring kingdoms, including the Kingdom of Gorkha. The founder of modern Nepal, Prithvi Narayan Shah attacked and finally captured the hill fort in a surprise attack on September 26, 1744. The Malla king Jaya Prakash Malla made one final attempt to get victory over Nuwakot the following year after Malla forces under Kasi Ram Thapa Magar (Chief Commander of Kantipur and Nuwakot) had defeated the Gorkha army at Naldum. However, the Gorkha army was able to repel the attack and secured Nuwakot as a permanent fort under Gorkha control. Nuwakot would afterwards serve as one of the key staging grounds for the eventual conquest of all three Malla kingdoms in the Kathmandu Valley (Kathmandu, Patan, Bhadgaon), which fell between 1768 and 1769 to Prithvi Narayan Shah.
Nuwakot has featured in several prominent moments of Nepali history. Chinese forces under General Fu-k'ang-an nearly captured Nuwakot during the Nepal-China conflict in 1792. It was also the location of the first meeting between the British envoy Captain William J. Kirkpatrick and the acting Regent Bahadur Shah in 1793, shortly after the war with China ended.
The current seven-story Nuwakot Durbar and surrounding complex was expanded in the 18th century by Prithvi Narayan Shah to support the growing trade routes linking Kathmandu with India and Tibet. Built in the Malla style, the architecture of the complex is divided into the main palace, the Bhairab Temple, as well as other temples and shrines. In 2008 the site was submitted for consideration as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Some of the temple complexes and buildings were damaged in the 2015 Nepal earthquake.


--- [Nuwakot: The City of Nine Hills] ---
Famous as the ‘City of Nine Hills’, Nuwakot is a part of Bagmati Province that holds historical importance in Nepal history and is located on the bank of Trishuli and Tandi Rivers. The name ‘Nuwakot’ was derived from “Nuwakotta'' which means nine forts. It is believed that each of the nine hills in the district have various deities and are said to protect and oversee it. Nuwakot holds many historical and religious sites and the place is also blessed with divine natural beauty. Nuwakot Durbar Nuwakot Durbar which is also known as Seven-Storey Palace “Saat Talle Durbar” is one of the historical places in Nepal, and was built in typical Malla-era design. It was built by Prithivi Narayan Shah after hiring laborers from Lalitpur in 1762 and still is considered a model of architecture. The site was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and in 2011 the palace was reopened as a museum. Bhairabi Temple The pagoda-style temple was built by Nepal’s first king Prithivi Narayan Shah. The temple is dedicated to the goddess Bhairabi, the consort of the god Bhairab. It is believed that the temple is around 400 years old and the golden roof of the temple was made using 30 tolas of gold. In 1793, Bahadur Shah, the younger son of Prithivi Narayan Shah installed a copper plate declaring Nepal’s victory in the First Sino-Nepalese War at the temple. Taleju Temple Taleju Temple is one of the most significant sites in the Nuwakot Durbar area. It was built during Mahendra Malla’s regime in the 14th century for Goddess Taleju Bhawani, a goddess originally from the south of India and later worshiped as the titular deity, or royal goddess, of the Malla Dynasty. The temple doesn't allow visitors during usual days, they can only visit it briefly during Dashain and Sinduri Jatra (a religious festival). Dupcheshwor Temple Located 35 kilometers east of Nuwakot’s district headquarters at Bidur, the Dupcheshwor Temple is settled on the banks of the Tandi River. The temple is one of the most popular temples of Lord Shiva and is also known as the second Pashupatinath. The temple is very popular because of the belief that the temple grants wishes to visiting devotees. Every year, thousands of people from all over the country visit the temple and offer the deity cow milk with a hope for their wish to be granted. On the days of Dhanyapurnima (Full Moon Day in Mangshir or Poush), Shivaratri, Teej, Balachaturdashi, and Janaipurnima, many people come to this place to offer their prayers and join the fair (mela). Trishuli River The district offers you the experience of outdoor activities, such as rafting, as the Trishuli river lies in this part of Nepal. It is one of the most popular and adventurous rivers for rafting with impressive gorges and exciting rapids. The Trishuli River is one of the major tributaries of the Narayani River. According to the Hindu Mythology, the river came into existence when Lord Shiva drove his trident (Trishula) into the ground to create three springs. Kakani It is a famous day tour hill station and a popular viewpoint located at an elevation of 2,230 meters (6,660 ft) from sea level in Nuwakot. Kakani has been blessing tourists with panoramic views of mountains, hills, and luscious jungle with rhododendrons adding beautiful color during spring. It is also a great place to enjoy the beauty of the district which offers you mountainous views with sunsets and sunrises. The village also has a memorial park built in the honor of the victims of the Thai Airways International Flight 311 in 1992. The place is also famous for picnics, family outings, cycling, and couples. Text by Ankita Maharjan


--- [Nuwakot District] ---
Nuwakot District (Nepali: नुवाकोट जिल्ला), a part of Bagmati Province, is one of the seventy-seven districts of Nepal. The district, with Bidur as its district headquarters, covers an area of 1,121 km2 (433 sq mi) and had a population of 288,478 in 2001 and 277,471 in 2011.
The district contains places of historical significance such as the town of Nuwakot, and the village of Devighat (the death place of Prithvi Narayan Shah) located at the confluence of the Tadi and Trishuli Rivers. Kakani is popular among Nepalese people as a touristic place and picnic spot.


--- [Nuwakot Nepal | Nuwakot Palace & Durbar Square] ---
Stuck somewhere in between the 17th-century ambience and 21st-century facilities, Nuwakot is one of the most attractive destinations of Nepal. Albeit there are not many attractions to see, the Nuwakot Palace and its Durbar Square in itself are enough to draw the travellers who love to delve deep down the back alley of history. Before the offbeat destination it is now, Nuwakot used to be a place of utmost historical significance. Located around 75 kilometres west of Kathmandu, and above the confluence of the rivers Trisuli and Tandi, Nuwakot once used to be the historic capital town of the great kingdom of Kathmandu Valley, back when monarchy still existed. Read More Photos of Nuwakot Read More on Nuwakot Grandeur of Nuwakot Durbar The block fortress of Nuwakot perched atop a hill is the culminating point of it all. From afar, the landscape looks like a painting on canvas, where the brushes have etched an archaic edifice rising from a rugged highland covered with sparse forests. The road winding up to the fortress is dusty and offers a spectacular view of the valley. There is a barrack of Nepal army in front of the palace, maintaining the tradition of it being a strong holdfast. The Nuwakot fortress on the other side still stands with all its seven storeys of Newari architectural glory but with only a fraction of its strength. Time and natural calamities have weakened its roots and authorities have kept it supported with scaffoldings. In front of the citadel, a beautifully curated garden marks the path to the old barracks and prison cells called Garad Ghar and the dance hall namely Ranga Mahal. They too are in a state of ruin, but the once-prominent magnificence can be observed from whatever is left. There are a couple of Vishnu shrines right in front of them. Nearby stands the Bhairav Temple, a shrine of the God of Annihilation, the destructive manifestation of Shiva. The temple has similar red brick construction and a traditional Newari origin and is looked after by the local community. The smear marks od sindoor on the ancient carved door is a mark of how revered they consider the shrine to be. A bell hangs in front of it for the devotees to pay their respects. Beyond the temple, the edge of the land offers a breathtakingly beautiful view of the western part of the valley, covered in small toyland-ish villages and rice terraces. There is another small shrine in the region, but it is not in use anymore. Right before the Nuwakot fortress there lies the Taleju Temple on a small hillock. Built in around 1564, this is the temple for goddess Taleju, whom the Malla dynasty followed. The local tradition of worshipping a young girl as goddess Kumari Devi comes from this deity - Kumari is considered as a reincarnation of Taleju. History of Nuwakot Nuwakot was a busy trading hub on the important Salt Trade route between India and Tibet. For a long period, it served as a vantage point for the lookout on the western entrance of the Valley. In the 18th century, many battles were fought between the Mallas and the Gorkhas, and sometimes the Chinese as well, over the ownership of the fort and the Nuwakot region. Finally, it rested in the hands of Gorkha ruler Prithvi Narayan Shah, who is also considered as the mastermind of modern, united Nepal. He is the one who expanded the original fort complex into a palace, added the amenities and made it what it is now. Although crumbling from the weight of age and the added burden of the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the grandeur that it once had can still be witnessed in bits and pieces. The Nuwakot fort and palace is the principal attraction in the region. The etymology of the name comes from the belief that there are nine (nawa) hills in the region, each of which stands for a sacred site (kort), dedicated to a particular deity. Together they look after the valley, giving Nuwakot district the name City of Nine Hills. The Eclectic Culture The Durbar Square turns into a festive arena full of colours and celebrations during the Sindure Jatra festival. It is one of the main festivals of Nuwakot, celebrated during mid-April. It marks the Nepali New Year and corresponds with the local New Year celebrations of many Indian ethnicities like Bengali, Punjabis and Tamils. It is also a harbinger of spring. The festival is celebrated by worshipping the deity of Goddess Bhairabi on a wooden chariot, singing and dancing to traditional music. Nepal is known for its diversity in ethnic cultures. Nuwakot is like a smaller Nepal within the country itself, with equal diversity in its cultural composition. Residents of Tamangs, Newars and Magars are common. It is them who maintain the agricultural fields that make the valley look so lush and green. In Nuwakot, they celebrate all the festivals that are celebrated in the more popular cities like Kathmandu. Gai Jatra and Indra Jatra are popular, and so is Kumari worship. Attractions in Nuwakot The fortress and its surroundings are not the only matter of interest in Nuwakot, though it is the central one. Being close to Langtang Himal, opportunities for hiking, trekking and mountain biking are within proximity of the town. In fact, the one hour climb from the bustling Trisuli Bazaar down the hill up to Nuwakot is a route that many tourists opt for. The whole place is dotted with modest food and accommodation places to cater to your needs. View of the Trishuli River is also quite a spectacular scene and worth capturing on this trip. The river passes right through the middle of Nuwakot. Further uphill, this same river turns into a raging spot for water rafting. If you are looking for an even quieter mountain retreat at an even higher altitude and perfect sunrise view, Kakani is nearby. It is famous for strawberry farming and the memorial park for the victims of the 1992 Bangkok-Kathmandu plane crash. Although Nuwakot is mostly considered as a preferred weekend tour out from Kathmandu, the root of the significance of the town and the fortress it is built around much deeper into the history of Nepal and its evolution. It is from this fortress the downfall of the Malla dynasty was planned by the Gorkhas, who later went on to build Nepal as we know it. A trip to this place might not be on the top of your bucket list, but you should be checking it off anyway.


--- [Explore Nepal] ---
EXPLORE NEPAL 10 NIGHTS | FROM US$2,155* | DEPARTS: KATHMANDU, NEPAL Experience a few days in rural Nepal as an add on to your trek, jungle safari or Bhutan tour. Escape from the hustle and bustle of Kathmandu and immerse yourself in our pick of Nepal’s most peaceful yet accessible countryside. Fly to Chitwan for a 2-day jungle safari in Chitwan National Park. Your accommodation is in a well established hotel with a large outdoor swimming pool. Visit the elephant breeding centre, take an early morning canoe ride and go on a jeep safari in the national park. Drive to Bandipur, one of Nepal’s most charming villages. A beautifully restored historic village perched on a hilltop, Banidpur is known for its pedestrianised main street lined with quaint houses and charming restaurants. This is one of the only places in Nepal were you can enjoy al fresco dining without any traffic passing you by. Stay in a restored heritage building that retains all its original and charming features whilst providing… Continue to Pokhara for two nights and explore the lakeside. Trekkers can add in a trek to the tour at this point as an add on. Continue to the largely undiscovered district of Nuwakot, where you will be based in a lovingly restored heritage farmhouse for two nights. Relax in the garden, join a guide for a village walk or explore the historic hilltop fortress and durbar square. This tour is ideal for people who love exploring off the beaten track from the comfort of their own vehicle and enjoy hand picked boutique accommodation without joining a large group. * Price based on twin share accommodation. Single room supplement available subject to availability. Minimum group size: 2. Find out approximate trip price in your own currency here Best time of year for this tour: late February - April & October - December TRIP ITINERARY DAY 1 Kathmandu: Your journey begins in Kathmandu, stay in comfortable boutique accommodation as you settle into the rhythms of Nepali life. Explore some of the most atmospheric and holiest sites in Kathmandu, such as the ancient Stupas of Bouddhanath and Swayambhunath. Overnight: Kathmandu Altitude: 1,400 m. DAY 2 Kathmandu: Continue exploring Kathmandu. Overnight: Kathmandu Altitude: 1,400 m. DAY 3 Fly to Chitwan: Take a short flight from Kathmandu to the Terai region, where you’ll be driven to Chitwan National Park. Explore the area with your guide and enjoy watching the sunset from the river bank. Flying time: 25 mins + 45 mins drive Overnight: Sauraha Altitude: 190 m. DAY 4 Chitwan: Take a canoe ride in the morning stopping at the elephant breeding centre. In the afternoon go on a jeep safari in the national park. In the evening, there will be a Tharu stick dance performance. Overnight: Sauraha Altitude: 190 m. DAY 5 Drive to Bandipur: Drive for a few hours to one of Nepal’s most beautiful villages, Bandipur. Perched on a saddle ridge, Bandipur has been pedestrianised and feature quaint shops and cafes, down a beautiful main street adorned with flowers. Driving time: Overnight: Bandipur Altitude: 1,000 m. DAY 6 Drive to Pokhara: Drive into Pokhara, Nepal’s second-largest city and famous for its mountain views, Phewa lake, and the base of Annapurna trekking. Relax at your accommodation, enjoy a paddle on the lake and dine at the many western-style eateries on lakeside. Driving time: 3 hours Overnight: Pokhara Altitude: 820 m (max elevation). DAY 7 Pokhara: Enjoy more of Pokhara Overnight: Pokhara Altitude: 822 m. DAY 8 Drive to Nuwakot: Take a morning hike or linger over breakfast before skirting the city to head over Shivapuri to Nuwakot. Famous as the ‘City of Nine Hills’, Nuwakot holds historical importance in Nepal’s history. Nuwakot Palace was built by Nepal's first king Prithvi Naryan Shah in the 18th century. Sadly, it was badly damaged in the earthquakes of 2015 but is under renovation. Continue to your well appointed farmhouse accommodation nearby. Driving time: roughly 2-3 hours Breakfast and Lunch included Elevation 950 m. DAY 9 Nuwakot: Take a morning hike with a guide on one of several walking routes. Explore Nuwakot Durbar or curl up with a book in the garden. Driving Time: Elevation: 950 m. DAY 10 Kathmandu: Return to Kathmandu for some final sightseeing and shopping. Driving time: roughly 2 hours DAY 11 Depart Kathmandu Trip Inclusions Private vehicle with driver Quality accommodation with some meals Breakfast at all hotels and some dinners or lunches One-way domestic flight to Chitwan Chitwan National Park fees and guide Jungle Safari - Nepal tourist visa Airport transfers to and from hotel in Kathmandu Comprehensive travel insurance. Tourist guide Some lunches and dinners Alcoholic or soft drinks, including bottled water (we recommend using filters or supporting safe drinking water programme) Tips for driver
