=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Robert Moog - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Moog was the inspiration behind the 2004 film Moog. Moog ' s first wife was Shirleigh Moog (née Shirley May Leigh), a grammar school teacher whom he married in 1958. The couple had three daughters (Laura Moog Lanier, Michelle Moog - Koussa, Renee Moog) and one son (Matthew Moog) before their divorce.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/16330

[Shirleigh Moog, 1936-2018]
Jun 7, 2018 — Shirleigh is survived by her four children, Laura Moog Lanier, Renée Moog, Michelle (Joseph) Moog-Koussa, and Matthew (Lucy) Moog, and by her ...
URL: https://moogfoundation.org/shirleigh-moog-1936-2018/

[Robert Moog - Reference.org]
Moog married Shirley May Leigh on June 15, 1958. 52 They had four children, Laura (1961), Renée (1963), Michelle (1967), and Matthew (1970). 53 They divorced in 1994. 54 On May 19, 1996 Moog married Ileana Grams. 55
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Robert_Moog/IcaxADgA

[Robert Moog Children Shirley May Leigh: The Quiet Reality Behind the ...]
Mar 8, 2025 · The Trumansburg Years and the First Family Bob Moog married Shirleigh Moog (born Shirley May Leigh) in 1958. It’s a detail that often gets glossed over in technical manuals, but Shirley was the backbone of the early Moog Music era. You have to understand that in the early sixties, selling synthesizers wasn’t a business; it was a bizarre hobby that most people thought was a scam or a joke.
URL: https://thelightshot.com/robert-moog-children-shirley-may-leigh-the-quiet-reality-behind-the-synth-legend-1o1f

[Robert Moog Obituary (2005) - Raleigh, NC - Legacy.com]
Aug 22, 2005 · Moog is survived by his wife, Ileana; his children, Laura Moog Lanier, Matthew Moog, Michelle Moog-Koussa and Renee Moog; a stepdaughter, Miranda Richmond; and his former wife, Shireleigh Moog.
URL: https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/name/robert-moog-obituary?id=60238143


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Robert Moog - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Robert Moog - Robert Moog Born May 23, 1934 New York City, New YorkDied August 21, 2005 (aged 71) Asheville, North CarolinaNationality American Occupation Electronic music pioneer, inventor of Moog synthesizer Robert Arthur Moog (pronounced /ˈmoʊɡ/ mohg), commonly called Bob Moog (May 23, 1934 – August 21, 2005) was an American pioneer of electronic music, best known as the inventor of the Moog synthesizer. Contents Life A native of New York City, Moog attended the Bronx High School of Science in New York, graduating in 1952. Moog earned a bachelor's degree in physics from Queens College, New York in 1957, another in electrical engineering from Columbia University, and a Ph.D. in engineering physics from Cornell University. Moog's awards include honorary doctorates from Polytechnic Institute of New York University (New York City) and Lycoming College (Williamsport, Pennsylvania) During his lifetime, Moog founded two companies for manufacturing electronic musical instruments. He also worked as a consultant and vice president for new product research at Kurzweil Music Systems from 1984 to 1988, helping to develop the Kurzweil K2000. He spent the early 1990s as a research professor of music at the University of North Carolina at Asheville. Moog received a Grammy Trustees Award for lifetime achievement in 1970. In 2002, Moog was honored with a Grammy Tech Award, and an honorary doctorate degree from Berklee College of Music. He gave an enthusiastically-received lecture at the 2004 New Interfaces for Musical Expression (NIME-04), held in Hamamatsu, Japan's "City of Musical Instruments", in June, 2004. Moog was the inspiration behind the 2004 film Moog. Moog's first wife was Shirleigh Moog (née Shirley May Leigh), a grammar school teacher whom he married in 1958. The couple had three daughters (Laura Moog Lanier, Michelle Moog-Koussa, Renee Moog) and one son (Matthew Moog) before their divorce. Moog was married to his second wife Ileana Grams, a philosophy professor, for nine years until his death. Moog's stepdaughter, Miranda Richmond, is Grams's daughter from a previous marriage. Moog also had five grandchildren. Moog was diagnosed with a glioblastoma multiforme brain tumor on April 28, 2005. Nearly four months later, he died at the age of 71 in Asheville, North Carolina on August 21, 2005. His end of life journey was captured using CaringBridge. The Bob Moog Foundation was created as a memorial, with the aim of continuing his life's work of developing electronic music. Development of the Moog synthesizer Main article: Moog synthesizerThe Moog synthesizer was one of the first widely used electronic musical instruments. Early developmental work on the components of the synthesizer occurred at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, now the Computer Music Center. While there, Moog developed the voltage controlled oscillators, ADSR envelope generators, and other synthesizer modules with composer Herbert Deutsch. Moog created the first voltage-controlled subtractive synthesizer to utilize a keyboard as a controller and demonstrated it at the AES convention in 1964. In 1966, Moog filed a patent application for his unique low-pass filter U.S. Patent 3,475,623, which issued in October 1969. He held several dozen patents.[1] Moog employed his theremin company (R. A. Moog Co., which would later become Moog Music) to manufacture and market his synthesizers. Unlike the few other 1960s synthesizer manufacturers, Moog shipped a piano-style keyboard as the standard user interface to his synthesizers. Moog also established standards for analog synthesizer control interfacing, with a logarithmic one volt-per-octave pitch control and a separate pulse triggering signal. The first Moog instruments were modular synthesizers. In 1971 Moog Music began production of the Minimoog Model D which was among the first widely available, portable and relatively affordable synthesizers. One of Moog's earliest musical customers was Wendy Carlos whom he credits with providing feedback that was valuable to the further development of Moog synthesizers. Through his involvement in electronic music, Moog developed close professional relationships with artists such as Don Buchla, Keith Emerson, Rick Wakeman, John Cage, Gershon Kingsley, Clara Rockmore, and Pamelia Kurstin. In a 2000 interview, Moog said "I'm an engineer. I see myself as a toolmaker and the musicians are my customers. They use my tools." R.A. Moog Co. and Moog Music Main article: Moog MusicIn 1953 at age 19, Moog founded his first company, R.A. Moog Co., to manufacture theremin kits. During the 1950s, composer and electronic music pioneer Raymond Scott approached Moog, asking him to design circuits for him. Moog later acknowledged Scott as an important influence. Later, in the 1960s, the company was employed to build modular synthesizers based on Moog's designs. In 1972 Moog changed the company's name to Moog Music. Throughout the 1970s, Moog Music went through various changes of ownership, eventually being bought out by musical instrument manufacturer Norlin. Poor management and marketing led to Moog's departure from his own company in 1977. In 1978 after leaving his namesake firm, Moog started making electronic musical instruments again with a new company, Big Briar. Their first specialty was theremins, but by 1999 the company expanded to produce a line of analog effects pedals called moogerfoogers. In 1999, Moog partnered with Bomb Factory to co-develop the first digital effects based on Moog technology in the form of plugins for Pro Tools software. Despite Moog Music's closing in 1993, Moog did not have the rights to market products using his own name throughout the 1990s. Big Briar acquired the rights to use the Moog Music name in 2002 after a legal battle with Don Martin who had previously bought the rights to the name Moog Music. At the same time, Moog designed a new version of the Minimoog called the Minimoog Voyager. The Voyager includes nearly all of the features of the original Model D in addition to numerous modern features. Theremin Moog constructed his own theremin as early as 1948. Later he described a theremin in the hobbyist magazine Electronics World and offered a kit of parts for the construction of the Electronic World's Theremin, which became very successful. In the late 1980s Moog repaired the original theremin of Clara Rockmore, an accomplishment which he considered a high point of his professional career. He also produced, in collaboration with first wife Shirleigh Moog, Mrs. Rockmore's album, The Art of the Theremin. Moog was a principal interview subject in the award-winning documentary film, Theremin: An Electronic Odyssey, the success of which led to a revival of interest in the theremin. Moog Music went back to its roots and once again began manufacturing theremins. Thousands have been sold to date and are used by both professional and amateur musicians around the globe. In 1996 he published another do-it-yourself theremin guide. Today, Moog Music is the leading manufacturer of performance-quality theremins. Pronunciation The surname Moog is one of the most divergently pronounced names in popular culture. The following interview excerpt reveals Robert Moog's preferred pronunciation: - — Reviewer: First off: Does your name rhyme with "vogue" or is like a cow’s "moo" plus a g at the end? - — Dr. Robert Moog: It rhymes with "vogue." That is the usual German pronunciation.[2] My father's grandfather came from Marburg, Germany. I like the way that pronunciation sounds better than the way the cow's "moo-g" sounds.[3] In a deleted scene from the DVD version of the documentary Moog, Moog describes the three pronunciations of the name Moog: the original Dutch /moːx/, which he believes would be too demanding of English speakers; the preferred Anglo-German pronunciation, /moʊɡ/; and a more anglicized pronunciation, /muːɡ/. Moog reveals that some of his family members prefer the anglicized pronunciation, while others, including himself (and his wife) prefer the Anglo-German pronunciation. See also - Harald Bode - Herbert Deutsch - Gershon Kingsley - Raymond Scott - Léon Theremin - Bruce Haack - List of notable brain tumor patients Footnotes - ^ ""Moog Patents"". http://www.till.com/articles/moog/patents.html. - ^ The German pronunciation is [moːk], or [moːɡ] before a vowel. The English pronunciation /moʊɡ/ is an approximation. - ^ The Origins of the Synthesizer: An Interview with Dr. Robert Moog References - Pinch, Trevor and Trocco, Frank (2002). Analog Days: The Invention and Impact of the Moog Synthesizer. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. hardcover: ISBN 0-674-00889-8, 2004 paperback: ISBN 0-674-01617-3 External links - Bob Moog — official website - The Bob Moog Memorial Foundation for Electronic Music - Robert Moog discography at Discogs - Robert Moog at the Internet Movie Database - Moog Music — official website - Moog Archives illustrated history of company and products - MoogFest — festival celebrating Moog - Vintage Synth Explorer - Bob Moog's links at ThereminVox - The Moog Taurus Bass Pedals, the Minimoog and the Moog Prodigy - Pictures of Bob Moog - Sound samples from the Moog Modular at BlueDistortion.com - NIME-04 — International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression - Interviews and articles - Bob Moog Interview at electronicmusic.com - Article of Bob Moog and his relationship with Raymond Scott and the inventions they made in the mid 1950’s (the unaddressed letter and the UJT-Relay sequencer invention) - Radio feature with Bob Moog on Voice Of America (MP3) - Radio feature with Bob Moog on NPR (MP3) - Article about Bob Moog on SynthMuseum.com - Interview with Bob Moog on Amazing Sounds - Article about Robert Moog's career on Salon.com - Robert Moog interview in magazine New Scientist - Radio interview with Moog from 2004 on WNYC (RealAudio) (Moog portion begins 30 minutes into program.) - Article with pictures of Bob Moog and various Moog synthesizers on Obsolete.com - Sweetwater Video Interview with Bob Moog discussing his design philosophy and future of synthesis, on Sweetwater.com - Patents - Descriptive list of Moog patents by J. Donald Tillman - U.S. Patent 3,475,623 Electronic High-pass and Low-pass Filters Employing the Base-to-Emitter Resistance of Bipolar Transistors, issued October 1969 - U.S. Patent 4,050,343 Electronic music synthesizer, issued September 1977 - U.S. Patent 4,108,041 Phase shifting sound effects circuit, issued August 1978 - U.S. Patent 4,117,413 Amplifier with multifilter, issued September 1978 - U.S. Patent 4,166,197 Parametric adjustment circuit, issued August 1979 - U.S. Patent 4,180,707 Distortion sound effects circuit, issued December 1979 - U.S. Patent 4,202,238 Compressor-expander for a musical instrument, issued May 1980 - U.S. Patent 4,213,367 Monophonic touch sensitive keyboard, issued July 1980 - U.S. Patent 4,280,387 Frequency following circuit, issued July 1981 - U.S. Patent 4,778,951 Arrays of resistive elements for use in touch panels and for producing electric fields, issued October 1988 - Obituaries - [1] / [2] in BBC News - [3] in Asheville Citizen-Times - [4] in CNN - [5] in Los Angeles Times - [6] in The New York Times (may require free registration to access) - [7] in The Economist - [8] in Mix magazine - [9] in The Times - Tributes - Bob Moog Guestbook at CaringBridge - Switched On and Ready To Rumble from The New York Times - A Tribute To Robert Moog — tribute album, entry on Discogs - Waves of Inspiration: The Legacy of Moog, museum exhibition - We Will Miss You, Bob Moog from BlueDistortion.com Laureates of the Polar Music Prize 1992–1999 Paul McCartney / the Baltic states (1992) · Dizzy Gillespie / Witold Lutosławski (1993) · Quincy Jones / Nikolaus Harnoncourt (1994) · Elton John / Mstislav Rostropovich (1995) · Joni Mitchell / Pierre Boulez (1996) · Bruce Springsteen / Eric Ericson (1997) · Ray Charles / Ravi Shankar (1998) · Stevie Wonder / Iannis Xenakis (1999)2000–2009 Bob Dylan / Isaac Stern (2000) · Burt Bacharach / Robert Moog / Karlheinz Stockhausen (2001) · Miriam Makeba / Sofia Gubaidulina (2002) · Keith Jarrett (2003) · B.B. King / György Ligeti (2004) · Gilberto Gil / Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau (2005) · Led Zeppelin / Valery Gergiev (2006) · Sonny Rollins / Steve Reich (2007) · Pink Floyd / Renée Fleming (2008) · Peter Gabriel / José Antonio Abreu / El Sistema (2009)2010–present Björk / Ennio Morricone (2010) · Kronos Quartet / Patti Smith (2011)Categories:- 1934 births - 2005 deaths - Analog electronics engineers - Inventors of musical instruments - Moogfest - Berklee College of Music alumni - The Bronx High School of Science alumni - Columbia Engineering alumni - Cornell University alumni - University of North Carolina at Asheville faculty - People from New York City - People from Queens - Queens College, City University of New York alumni - Deaths from brain cancer - Cancer deaths in North Carolina Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Shirleigh Moog, 1936-2018] ---
Shirleigh Moog Leaves a Legacy of Intelligence, Love, Creativity, Teaching, and more… We are deeply saddened to share that Shirleigh May Moog (née Shirley May Leigh), Bob’s first wife and mother, teacher, social justice advocate, and author, died of natural causes on Thursday, June 7th, 2018 at the John F. Keever Solace Center in Asheville, North Carolina. Born on May 3, 1936 in New York City to Benjamin, a haberdasher, and Lillian, an office clerk, she was the third of four children. Shirleigh received a Bachelor’s degree in education from Queens College, City University of New York in 1958, while working a part-time job at advertising agency J. Walter Thompson. Shirleigh met Bob at a service sorority/fraternity social at Queens College, City University of New York in 1956. The couple were married two years later and remained together for 36 years, with Shirleigh providing the stability needed to facilitate her husband’s inventive spirit. According to friends who knew the couple, her strong presence, sharp intellect, and unwavering support were indispensable to his career. She moved to Ithaca, New York to join Bob as he pursued his doctoral degree at Cornell University. There she generated the couple’s main source of income by teaching in a two-room schoolhouse to rural children in kindergarten to third grade. She was known as a strict, creative, doting presence to the disadvantaged population that she served. She stopped teaching in 1961, prior to the birth of her first child, and devoted herself to motherhood and to supporting her husband’s business, R.A. Moog, Co., of selling theremins and theremin kits, which she often assembled at the kitchen table. The family grew in tandem with Bob’s career. His theremin business evolved with his invention of the Moog synthesizer in 1964 after collaborating on a prototype with composer Herbert Deutsch. The business grew in 1968 after the groundbreaking album Switched-on Bach by Wendy Carlos brought synthesis to the public consciousness, and evolved yet again with the advent of the iconic Minimoog synthesizer in 1970. By this time Bob and Shirleigh had four children, with Shirleigh providing the main parenting presence. Shirleigh excelled at both raising their children, and doing the books for the early iteration of her husband’s company, all while entertaining a broad range of musician guests with her exceptional culinary skills, her naturally warm and engaging hospitality, and her witty charm. Her recounting of this experience was published in her 1978 cookbook, Moog’s Musical Eatery. One of the tributes on the back of the cookbook reads, “Shirleigh generates an enveloping aura of charm and sensibility among her guests, her sequential control of the evening pulsing a smooth waveform of food, friends, and conversation.” — Keith Emerson, Emerson, Lake & Palmer A classical music enthusiast and supporter, Shirleigh joined Bob in co-producing Clara Rockmore’s Theremin record in 1975. She considered Rockmore, and many of her husband’s musical clients, as friends. In 1978 the family left New York and moved to rural Leicester, NC, after Bob left his position as president of Moog Music, Inc. in Buffalo, NY. There, Shirleigh immersed herself in parenting, gardening, homesteading, and cooking as her husband started his new venture, Big Briar, Inc., making custom electronic musical instruments She served on the Board of Directors of the North Carolina Symphony and on the Community Advisory Board of public radio station WCQS. The couple moved to Natick, MA in 1984 as Bob assumed the position of Vice President of New Product Research for Kurzweil Music Systems, which lasted until 1988. They returned to their residence in North Carolina the same year. During that time Shirleigh became a successful real estate agent. In 1993, she combined her passions of healthy eating and cooking by publishing her second cookbook, A Guide to the Food Pyramid. She was a guest columnist for the Asheville Citizen-Times cooking section. In 1994, after 36 years of marriage, Shirleigh and Robert divorced. She did not remarry, and devoted herself to taking care of her grandchildren, volunteering for the local branch of the NAACP, serving as Vice-President of the organization for one term, and participating in race relation organizations and neighborhood associations. She was a fierce advocate for social justice, and was active in the Unitarian Universalist Church. She remained an avid cook, reader, bird-watcher and gardener, achieving Master Gardener status in 1995. She specialized in clever, if painful, puns. Shirleigh is survived by her four children, Laura Moog Lanier, Renée Moog, Michelle (Joseph) Moog-Koussa, and Matthew (Lucy) Moog, and by her five grandchildren, Gregory and Yasmine Koussa, and Max, Charlie, and Eli Moog. She is preceded in death by her siblings Matthew, Mildred, and Sam, by her beloved son-in-law Paul Sylvester, and by her ex-husband. A date for a memorial will be announced later in the summer. In lieu of flowers, please consider a contribution to the NAACP (http://www.naacp.org), WCQS (http://bpr.org), or the Bob Moog Foundation (www.moogfoundation.org).


--- [Robert Moog - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Robert Moog Children Shirley May Leigh: The Quiet Reality Behind the ...] ---
Bob Moog changed everything. If you’ve ever listened to a record from the late sixties onward, you’ve heard his soul in the form of electricity. But while the world was obsessing over the Minimoog and the voltage-controlled oscillator, there was a house in Trumansburg, New York, filled with the actual life of the man. We talk about the knobs. We talk about the filters. We rarely talk about the Robert Moog children Shirley May Leigh and the domestic reality that fueled—and sometimes suffered for—the invention of electronic music as we know it. He wasn't just a face on a circuit board. He was a father. The Trumansburg Years and the First Family Bob Moog married Shirleigh Moog (born Shirley May Leigh) in 1958. It’s a detail that often gets glossed over in technical manuals, but Shirley was the backbone of the early Moog Music era. You have to understand that in the early sixties, selling synthesizers wasn’t a business; it was a bizarre hobby that most people thought was a scam or a joke. The couple had four children during their marriage: Laura, Eve, Michelle, and Matthew. Life in the Moog household wasn't some high-tech playground. Honestly, it was a bit of a scramble. While Bob was downstairs in the basement or over at the factory tinkering with cables, the kids were growing up in a house where the "family business" was basically a high-stakes science experiment. Shirley was an educator and a writer—she actually wrote a cookbook later on called The Moog’s Kitchen—and she was the one keeping the wheels on the wagon while Bob chased the perfect waveform. The children grew up surrounded by "Uncle" Herb Deutsch and various avant-garde musicians who would wander through their lives. It sounds glamorous now. Back then? It was just a lot of strange noises coming from the garage. Understanding the Robert Moog Children Shirley May Leigh Dynamic To understand the Robert Moog children Shirley May Leigh connection, you have to look at the pressure of the 1970s. By the time the Minimoog took off, the company was hemorrhaging money. Bob was a genius, but he wasn't always the most cutthroat businessman. He eventually lost control of his own name. That kind of stress doesn't stay at the office. The kids saw the rise and the subsequent fall of the original Moog Music Inc. firsthand. They saw their father move the family to North Carolina in the late seventies to start over with Big Briar. That move was a hard reset. It was a chance to get away from the corporate mess in Buffalo and get back to the woods, back to the theremins, and back to a smaller, more intimate way of living. Michelle Moog-Koussa and the Legacy Project If you look at who is carrying the torch today, Michelle Moog-Koussa is the name that pops up most frequently. She didn't just grow up as Robert Moog's daughter; she became the guardian of his memory. She’s the Executive Director of the Bob Moog Foundation. It's a heavy lift. She’s been vocal about the fact that her father wasn't some untouchable deity. He was a guy who loved his garden. He was a guy who was deeply humble, almost to a fault. When people ask about the Robert Moog children Shirley May Leigh legacy, they are often looking for dirt or some grand secret. The reality is more poignant: they were a family trying to navigate the shadow of a man whose invention was bigger than he was. Michelle has spent years archiving thousands of documents and photos. She’s the reason the "Moogseum" exists in Asheville. While the "other" Moog company (Moog Music) focused on the hardware, the Foundation—led by his daughter—focused on the man and the education. Matthew Moog and the Business Mind Then there's Matthew. He didn't go into the synth business, at least not in the way you'd expect. He carved out a massive career in the tech and venture capital world in Chicago. It’s interesting. You see the DNA of innovation there, but applied to the digital age rather than the analog one. It’s a different kind of synthesis. He’s been involved with companies like Viewpoints and PowerReviews. It’s a reminder that the "Moog" influence isn't just about sound; it's about a specific way of looking at how systems work. The Split and the Later Years The marriage between Bob and Shirley eventually ended. It happens. They divorced in the eighties, and Bob later married Ileana Grams in 1996. This transition created two distinct eras of the Moog family history. When we discuss the Robert Moog children Shirley May Leigh era, we are talking about the "Golden Age" of synthesis—the era of the modular systems and the Woodstock-era explosion. The children from that first marriage are the ones who lived through the actual invention of the industry. Shirley May Leigh remained a figure of respect in the community until her passing in 2018. She wasn't just "the wife." She was a partner during the most volatile and creative years of his life. People who knew her often talk about her sharp mind and her ability to handle the eccentricities of the geniuses that Bob constantly brought home for dinner. Why This Matters for Synth History We tend to deify inventors. We act like the Minimoog just fell out of the sky. It didn't. It was built while kids were playing in the next room. It was built while Shirley was managing the household. It was built in the midst of real, messy, complicated human lives. If you ignore the family aspect, you're missing the "why" behind the "how." Bob Moog’s desire for a portable, playable instrument was partly about making music accessible to everyone—not just the elite in university labs. That's a very "human-centric" way of thinking, likely born from being a family man himself. The children—Laura, Eve, Michelle, and Matthew—each carry a piece of that history. Actionable Insights for Moog Enthusiasts If you’re a fan of the Moog sound or a researcher looking into the history of the Robert Moog children Shirley May Leigh story, don't just stick to the gear forums. The gear is only half the story. - Visit the Moogseum: If you’re ever in Asheville, North Carolina, go. It’s curated with a personal touch that you won't find in a corporate showroom. It highlights the family’s involvement in preserving Bob’s archives. - Support the Bob Moog Foundation: This is the non-profit wing. They do "Dr. Bob’s SoundSchool," which teaches the science of sound to kids. It’s the most direct way the family continues Bob’s mission of education. - Read "The Moog’s Kitchen": If you can find a copy of Shirley’s book, grab it. It’s a fascinating look at the domestic side of a revolution. It puts the whole "mad scientist" vibe into a very grounded perspective. - Check the Archives: The family has made a huge effort to digitize Bob’s notes. These aren't just circuit diagrams; they are letters and journals that show the human struggle behind the brand. The Moog story isn't over. It didn't end in 2005 when Bob passed away. It continues through the work of his children and the enduring influence of Shirley May Leigh’s presence in those early, formative years. They weren't just bystanders to history. They were the ones who made sure there was a home for the history to happen in. Next Steps for Deep Research: To get the most authentic view of this legacy, look into the specific oral histories recorded by the Bob Moog Foundation. They feature interviews with former employees and family members that contradict many of the polished "corporate" versions of the Moog story found in modern marketing materials.


--- [Robert Moog Obituary (2005) - Raleigh, NC - Legacy.com] ---
No content
