=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[C. Frederick Koelsch - Wikipedia]
Charles Frederick Koelsch (31 January 1907 - 24 December 1999) was an American organic chemist who spent his faculty career at the University of Minnesota. [1][2][3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C._Frederick_Koelsch

[C. Frederick Koelsch - Reference.org]
American organic chemist Charles Frederick Koelsch (31 January 1907 - 24 December 1999) was an American organic chemist who spent his faculty career at the University of Minnesota.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/c_frederick_koelsch/eMxsJ9se

[C. Frederick Koelsch | Scholars Walk]
Scholars Walk is a prominent pathway spanning nearly 2,200 feet, celebrates the research and classroom accomplishments of the University of Minnesota's award-winning faculty, alumni, and students.Gifted to the University by the University Gateway Corporation in 2006, Scholars Walk is lined with 40 bur oak trees, lighted monuments, and includes the Wall of Discovery, a 253-foot-long artistic ...
URL: https://scholarswalk.umn.edu/national-international-awards/major-disciplinary-awards/c-frederick-koelsch

[C. Frederick Koelsch - Wikipedia]
Auszeichnungen und Mitgliedschaften 1934 American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry British Chemical Society American Chemical Society Das Koelsch-Radikal, ein besonders stabiles kohlenstoff ­zentriertes Radikal wurde nach ihm benannt. [3]
URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/C._Frederick_Koelsch

[Prof. Emeritus C. Frederick Koelsch]
Member British Chemical Society, Alpha Chi Sigma, Phi Lambda Upsilon, American Chemical Society. Recipient of Langmuir Award for pure chemistry research 1934.
URL: http://www1.chem.umn.edu/alumni/HistoryWeb/IndFacPages/Koelsch.html%20copy


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [C. Frederick Koelsch - Wikipedia] ---
Charles Frederick Koelsch (31 January 1907 - 24 December 1999) was an American organic chemist who spent his faculty career at the University of Minnesota.


--- [C. Frederick Koelsch - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [C. Frederick Koelsch | Scholars Walk] ---
Chemistry Twin Cities Award name Award in Pure Chemistry, American Chemical Society Award Year 1933 No Monument Location


--- [C. Frederick Koelsch - Wikipedia] ---
Charles Frederick Koelsch (* 31. Januar 1907 in Boise, Idaho; † 24. Dezember 1999) war ein US-amerikanischer Chemiker. Sein Spezialgebiet war die Organische Chemie.


--- [Prof. Emeritus C. Frederick Koelsch] ---
| C. Frederick Koelsch, age 92, of St. Paul, died Dec. 24, 1999. Born Boise, ID. Emeritus Professor of Organic Chemistry University of Minnesota. Ph.D. University of Wisconsin 1931. NRC fellow Harvard 1931-32. Member British Chemical Society, Alpha Chi Sigma, Phi Lambda Upsilon, American Chemical Society. Recipient of Langmuir Award for pure chemistry research 1934. Proud holder of amateur radio license WOOK. Preceded in death by wife, Helen; and son, Charles Frederick III. Survived by son, John Koelsch, Wells, NV; daughter, Karen (Mrs. Gary G.) Hanson, Rochester, MN; a sister, Mrs. Dorothy Kickhaefer of New York City; 5 grandchildren, 5 nieces and a nephew. Memorial Service was held Thursday, January 6 at 10 AM at ST. ANTHONY PARK UNITED CHURCH OF CHRIST, 2129 Commonwealth Ave., St. Paul. Ashes will be scattered in Nevada. | The Life and Times of Professor Emeritus C. Frederick Koelsch* by Wayland E. Noland Professor of Chemistry University of Minnesota Minneapolis, Minn. 55455 Published in The Minnesota Chemist, 27, No. 7, pp. 7-8,15-17, Nov. 1975 In German, Koelsch means "from Cologne," suggesting the origin of Fred's paternal ancestors. His ancestors emigrated from Germany to the United States about 1800 and settled in West Bend, WI. Fred's father, Charles F. Koelsch, left West Bend at the age of twenty and moved to Idaho, where he became a District Judge. Fred was born in Boise, ID, on January 31, 1907, and grew up there, graduating from high school in 1924. In view of the strong Koelsch family roots in Wisconsin, it was reasonable that Fred should choose to go to the University of Wisconsin, from which he received the B.S. degree in 1928, at the age of 21. At Wisconsin, Fred did not enroll in the elementary organic chemistry course, but received credit after he had demonstrated his knowledge of the subject by making A's in all of the examinations given in the course. He carried out senior thesis research on a problem suggested by his adviser, Prof. S. M. McElvain, on the reaction of various Grignard reagents with epichlorohydrin. He continued on the problem during his first semester of graduate work and the work resulted in his first two publications, [J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 51, 3390 (1929); 52, 1164 (1930)]. In the summer of 1929, following his first year of graduate work, Fred decided to see more of the country. Being adventurous, frugal, and penniless, he decided to ride the rails. Railroads were a much more common form of personal transport in those days, and freight trains often served needs akin to those of the modern-day hitchhiker. There were five more papers arising from Fred's graduate work, dealing with the chemistry of phenols and the preparation of b-thioglyceric acid, all published in J. Amer. Chem. Soc. in 1930-31 with him as sole author. One of these papers, on the identification of phenols, describes the preparation of aryloxyacetic acids, which are still the best crystalline derivatives of phenols and have the virtue, being acids, that they can be titrated to give the neutral equivalent weight from which the molecular weight of the original phenol can easily be deduced. Altogether, Fred spent three years, 1928-31, doing graduate work for his Ph.D. in Chemistry at Wisconsin. He was an Assistant Instructor for the first two years and the duPont Fellow for the third year. Immediately following completion of his Ph.D. degree in June, 1931, he taught elementary organic chemistry in the summer school at the University of Illinois, also carrying out experimental work for two short papers which were published in the following year. During the year 1931-32, Fred was a National Research Council Fellow in Chemistry at Harvard. There, in addition to the two papers on which work was begun at Illinois, he published three more papers, all concerned with syntheses with triarylvinylmagnesium bromides. There was one paper on this subject, however, which Fred also submitted to J. Amer. Chem. Soc. in 1932 while at Harvard, but which was not published until 25 years later, in 1957 (see below). In the meantime, at the University of Minnesota, the death of Dr. William H. ("Hunt") Hunter, Chief of the Division of Organic Chemistry, had created a vacancy for a full professor which had so far not been filled. It was decided to select two younger men, in hopes that they would develop into leaders in the field of organic chemistry. On recommendation of his former major professor, Elmer Peter Kohler, at Harvard, Lee Irvin Smith, who had assumed the leadership of the Organic Division at Minnesota, recommended to Dean 0. M. Leland of the Institute of Technology that these positions be offered to C. F. Koelsch and Paul D. Bartlett. Besides being recommended by Kohler, Fred Koelsch was strongly recommended for the position by his major professor at Wisconsin, S. M. McElvain, by Prof. Homer Adkins of Wisconsin, and by Prof. Carl S. Marvel of Illinois. Both Koelsch and Bartlett, then a postdoctoral fellow with Levene at the Rockefeller Institute, accepted the offers from Minnesota of instructorships at $2200 for the academic year. 1932 was in the depths of the depression and the salaries offered should be viewed partly in that light. University records show for Fred a 1932-33 salary of $2100, which must have included a $100 "voluntary faculty cut" which was applied during those difficult times. A year later, on February 2, 1933, Fred was offered an assistant professorship at $3200 at the University of Chicago, by Prof. H. I. Schlesinger, but he turned it down. Dean Leland took note of the fact and wrote Fred on February 8, 1933, that it was their intention to increase his salary for the following year. On September 20, 1933, Dr. Frank C. Whitmore, Dean of the School of Chemistry and Physics of Penn State University, proposed to Dr. S. C. Lind, Director of the School of Chemistry at Minnesota, to nominate Fred Koelsch for the ACS Award in Pure Chemistry (then known as the Langmuir Award), stating that "after the award .... to three young physicists, it would seem that as brilliant a young organic chemist as Dr. Koelsch should have a fighting chance," and offering to nominate him if it was felt better to have an outsider do it. He did, and the effort was successful. In receiving the award in 1934, Fred became the first of three Ph.D. students of S. M. McElvain to do so, the others being Arthur C. Cope and Gilbert J. Stork. Fred was promoted to Assistant Professor in the fall of 1934. In the meantime, Fred's contemporary, Paul Bartlett, who had received his Ph.D. with James Bryant Conant at Harvard, was called back to Harvard after "two swell years" at Minnesota, as he inscribed it to Lee Irvin Smith on his picture which now hangs in my office. Fifteen years later, I was to find myself as a graduate student of Bartlett's and, subsequently in 1951, took a position at Minnesota. In 1937, Fred was promoted to Associate Professor. In 1938, he married Helen Hermanson, who had been an organic chemistry student of Walter Lauer's and who did secretarial work for Lloyd Reyerson. On February 16, 1943, daughter Karen arrived, and later sons Charlie and Johnie. In 1939, when Fred's salary as an associate professor was $3300, he became a consultant to the Smith, Kline and French Laboratories of Philadelphia. During the war years 1943-45, when his academic salary was $4800, Fred worked 50% time on a confidential NDRC project with OSRD with Lee Irvin Smith. As Dr. Smith wrote on March 4, 1944, "Our project is a very important one, and by having Dr. Koelsch associated with it, we will be able to turn out much more work than heretofore. Dr. Koelsch's half time for this work will come from his own personal researches and from the time he has heretofore devoted to his graduate students, now approaching minus infinity in number." At that time, Fred was engaged in investigations on the possibility of synthesizing morphine-like and quinine-like drugs. In 1945, Fred concluded his consultantship with Smith, Kline and French and on March 30, 1945, became a consultant to the Winthrop Chemical Co., Inc. of Albany, NY, now a part of the Sterling Drug Company, a relationship which continued for over 26 years until December 7, 1972, after Fred had reached their mandatory retirement age of 65. In 1945, Fred was also promoted to Full Professor, apparently at a salary of $6000. During the summer of 1947, Fred taught at UCLA where one of his first three Ph.D.'s, Theodore W. Geissman, was located. Geissman and Virgil Boekelheide are the two among Fred's 63 graduate students who have received Outstanding Achievement Awards from the University of Minnesota so far (a third, Stanley Wawzonek, is scheduled to receive the award during 1975). On January 4, 1946, Fred became a consultant for the Union Carbide Corporation in South Charleston, WV, a consulting relationship which continued for nineteen years until March, 1965, when the acquisition by Carbide of a small pharmaceutical firm, Neisler Laboratories, Inc., caused a potential conflict of interest with his Sterling-Winthrop consultantship, and made it necessary for him to resign the Carbide consultantship. Carbide set up a graduate fellowship on an annual basis, which lasted for many years, and which went to one of Fred's students or to someone else he designated. In 1957, a paper appeared by C. F. Koelsch entitled "Syntheses with Triarylvinylmagnesium Bromides. a,g-Bisdiphenylene-b-phenylallyl, a Stable Free Radical" in J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 79, 4439. Footnote 1 to this paper is of interest and tells its history: "The experimental work in the present paper was done in the Converse Memorial Laboratory of Harvard University in 1931-1932, when the author was a National Research Council fellow. A paper describing the work was submitted to This Journal, June 9, 1932, but it was not accepted for publication. The referee held that the properties of the chief compound, a,g-Bisdiphenylene-b-phenylallyl, could not be those of a radical. "Recent quantum mechanical calculations by M. M. Kreevoy (to be published in J. Chem. Phys.), however, now indicate that a radical of the structure named would be unusually resonance-stabilized, and that the properties reported for the substance in question would be not at all inconsistent with the structure claimed. A study of the thermodynamics of addition of sodium to the substance [N. B. Keevil, This Journal 59, 2104 (1937)] hinted that the compound might be unusually stable as a radical. And finally, recent studies by J. E. Wertz and J. L. Vivo, using electron spin resonance methods (briefly reported in OSR Technical Note 55-203, May 1955, p. 133, and to be published in detail in J. Chem. Phys.) indicate that the substance is highly dissociated, has an unusually narrow line-width, and is very stable. A sample kept in air 23 years is unchanged in appearance and shows a high free-radical content. "Because the structure originally suggested appears to be confirmed, and because many requests for samples and preparational details are being received, it appears desirable to publish the work now. In the interest of historical accuracy, the only important changes in the original paper are the additions of footnotes 5, 6 and 8." On July 1, 1961, as a former undergraduate senior thesis student of Fred's major professor, I had the privilege of attending the Samuel M. McElvain Organic Chemistry Symposium in Madison, Wis. The speakers, distinguished former students of McElvain, included Fred, who spoke on the "Synthesis of Quinones Derived from o-Terphenyl." During the 1972-73 academic year, after 39 continuous years of service to the University of Minnesota, Fred took his only sabbatical leave, or leave of any kind. A publication list through 1953 stops with paper 98, but another document shows that by 1965 this number had increased to 118, indicating a most productive career centered around the chemistry of aromatic compounds, particularly highly phenylated ones. Fred's advanced courses in Aromatics and Reagents are no longer taught, Stuart Fenton and I have taken over the Organic Qualitative Analysis course, and many of the more than 8,000 students who have received their introduction to Elementary Organic Chemistry from this beloved and compassionate teacher are now making their careers in the medical, biological, and chemical sciences. Anyone who has ever known Fred as a graduate-level chemist knows what a phenomenal knowledge of the earlier chemical literature he has. He has so many hobbies, centered around things electronic and mechanical, that he will never be bored by retirement. (Now, in 1975, one of his hobbies continues to be organic chemistry; he is regularly found in his office and laboratory on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays). *Excerpted from an address given by the author at the University of Minnesota Chemistry Faculty Banquet, June 5, 1973, on the occasion of Professor Koelsch' s retirement.
