=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Good Omens – Season 2 Episode 2 “Chapter 2: The Clue” Recap & Review]
Jul 28, 2023 · Chapter 2: The Clue featuring the minisode A Companion to Owls Episode 2 of Good Omens season 2 titled ‘Chapter 2: The Clue featuring the minisode A Companion to Owls’ begins with Demon Crowley being sent to the Land of Uz to destroy Job’s lambs. Aziraphale shows up ready to stop him and they catch up as he is surprised to see Crowley. But as they go back to business, Crowley refuses to ...
URL: https://www.thereviewgeek.com/goodomens-s2e2review/

[Good Omens S2E2 "The Clue" Recap - TV Tropes]
A page for describing Recap: Good Omens S2E2 "The Clue". Season 2, Episode 2 The Clue Aziraphale and Crowley investigate why Gabriel has amnesia and is on …
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/GoodOmensS2E2TheClue

[The Clue | Good Omens Wiki | Fandom]
The Clue is the second episode of Season 2 of the Prime Video original series Good Omens series, and eight overall. It premiered on July 28, 2023. Heaven and Hell are determined to find the missing angel. An overheard song provides Aziraphale with a Clue. Crowley and Aziraphale visit the pub to discuss ways that humans fall in love. While almost 5,000 years ago Crowley is sent to inflict ...
URL: https://goodomens.fandom.com/wiki/The_Clue

[Good Omens season 2 episode 2 recap: A Biblical bet]
Jul 28, 2023 — *This article contains spoilers for Good Omens season 2 episode 2, "The Clue"* ... Crowley is about to sacrifice some goats to Satan.
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/good-omens-season-2-episode-162941402.html

[Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2 Recap - how do Aziraphale and ...]
Jul 28, 2023 · We recap the Amazon Prime Video series Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2, “The Clue,” which contains spoilers. Good Omens focuses on the unusual friendship between Aziraphale (Michael Sheen), the angel, and Crowley (David Tennant), the demon. In “The Clue,” audiences get to see the makings of this friendship in 2500 BC.
URL: https://readysteadycut.com/2023/07/28/good-omens-season-2-episode-2-recap/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Good Omens – Season 2 Episode 2 “Chapter 2: The Clue” Recap & Review] ---
Chapter 2: The Clue featuring the minisode A Companion to Owls Episode 2 of Good Omens season 2 titled ‘Chapter 2: The Clue featuring the minisode A Companion to Owls’ begins with Demon Crowley being sent to the Land of Uz to destroy Job’s lambs. Aziraphale shows up ready to stop him and they catch up as he is surprised to see Crowley. But as they go back to business, Crowley refuses to stop the destruction as he has a permit from God! Aziraphale is shocked and goes to Heaven to recheck. He is aghast at learning that God has made a bet with Satan. Satan claims that Job, God’s favourite human is a strong believer because God is kind to him. So God has allowed Satan to take away his prized possessions aka Job’s trials. If Job’s faith doesn’t waver, he will be rewarded twicefold including double the children. Oh, but his old existing children that he loves will stay dead. Back in present-day London, Gabriel is trying to help by arranging the books in order of the first letter of the book’s sentence. Tired, Aziraphale lets him be till he hears Gabriel singing a song. Elsewhere, Shax shows up and threatens Crowley unless he helps Hell. She also reveals that an archangel-scale miracle took place at the bookshop and so Crowley must know something. Back at the bookshop, Aziraphale decides to ask Maggie about the song but she is too busy crying over Nina. She narrates how she made a fool of herself the other day and that she is in love with Nina. Aziraphale hopes to help but he has run out of miracles and she further beats herself up for telling him about her tragic love life. On to the song, she says it is the 1957 song ‘Everyday’ by Buddy Holly. Aziraphale asks for a record and she pulls out tons of them. Turns out, she has a tie-up with an Edinburgh pub, The Resurrectionist (the very same pub whose name is written on the matchbox found by Muriel). Unfortunately, every single record she has sent has ended up magically playing ‘Everyday’ and so they have sent it all back to her. Before Aziraphale can look into it, he feels archangels on Earth. He rushes back in time to see Saraqael, Uriel and Michael in front of his bookshop. As they ask about Gabriel, the amnesiac archangel welcomes them in and introduces himself as Jim, the book-seller assistant who is also sometimes called Gabriel. But they don’t find anything amiss as Crowley and Aziraphale’s miracle holds – they don’t recognize Gabriel. They declare that an archangel-worthy miracle took place and Aziraphale tries to cover up by saying it was just him helping Maggie and Nina fall in love. They state that they will send someone to verify the love miracle and leave. Following some research, Aziraphale calls Crowley to a pub next door. He immediately regrets it as he is swept into hosting a monthly get-together for the local traders and shopkeepers association. Crowley wonders why they couldn’t just meet at the cafe and Aziraphale says the cafe owner is part of the problem. He explains how he needs to get Nina to fall in love with Maggie and Crowley fails to see how it is their problem. Aziraphale reveals how he messed up and now the archangels are going to send someone to verify his ‘love miracle’. They then get to discussing how to fix it with Crowley suggesting Richard Curtis’ move of having two people taking shelter under torrential rain and falling in love. Aziraphale, on the other hand, wants a Jane Austen moment and Crowley is surprised to hear she is the same person as an iconic female thief he knew back in the day. Anywho, they head back to the bookshop and ask Gabriel about the song. He cannot seem to remember but when he tries extra hard, he gets back a memory from way back. His eyes go purple and he says a phrase before panicking and saying he should not remember those memories. As he goes to rest, Crowley points out that Gabriel just said the same phrase that God told Job. We are finally shown what really went down during Job’s trial. Crowley heads to the mansion to kill Job’s children. Aziraphale tries to stop him when he suddenly notices that the crows are bleating. Turns out, Crowley never killed the goats but disguised them as crows. Aziraphale is over the moon upon learning that Crowley is siding with him. When they finally meet the kids, the eldest two are annoying and Aziraphale almost worries that Crowley may go back on his word. But he simply turns them all into lizards. The next day God finally speaks to Job. God keeps asking him if he knew how God made the world, ostriches and whales. When he returns, his wife, Sitis is confused by the turn of events. At that moment, Gabriel, Michael and the other angels appear before them and reward them with double the cattle. The couple only cares about their kids, and the angels say they will get new children. Before Sitis can curse them all, Crowley shows up, pretending to be an old acquaintance, Bildad the Shuhite and claims he is a midwife. He and Aziraphale tell her to play along and declare that she is ready to give birth. With Gabriel only having seen Eve’s birth, they pretend that Sitis has pulled out 3 of Job’s ribs. As they hug, the fake bones disappear and Crowley turns the children back into humans. Michael wonders why they are not babies and Gabriel claims kids probably come in all shapes and sizes like Eve. Of course, the annoying son, Ennon keeps insisting that they are all the old children. Michael and Gabriel almost catch on and turn to Aziraphale for an answer. Crowley looks at him knowingly, and after much hesitation, Aziraphale swears that the kids are the new children. The matter is solved and the archangels are happy. Back in the present, Crowley leaves while Aziraphale wonders about the record. Outside, Crowley runs into Nina who asks him about his powers and he just brushes it off. He asks her how she feels about sheltering under torrential rain and looks at Maggie. Nina thinks he is insinuating that she and Maggie are a thing, and she vehemently refuses, going as far as to say that getting locked together was a terrible day for her. Ouch. They move along only for Crowley to now be interrupted by Aziraphale. With his 90-year-old driving license, the angel wants to take ‘their’ Bentley to the Edinburgh pub to investigate while Crowley is to look after ‘their’ bookshop and Gabriel. The demon tries to refuse but who can refuse Aziraphale? We get one last flashback to explain why Crowley has such a strong bond with him. After Job’s trial, a crying Aziraphale goes to Crowley and says he is ready to go to Hell. Crowley doesn’t understand and Aziraphale thinks he is going to hell for lying. Crowley says he won’t tell anyone if Aziraphale doesn’t. Aziraphale is just an angel who goes along with Heaven as far as he can just like Crowley listens to Hell as long as it works for him. They accept that it can get lonely and sit together while looking at the horizon. The Episode Review Good Omens season 2 continues to question the world and the way it works as seen in episode 2. It can be quite risky with Aziraphale being the devout voice of reason as he tries to understand God’s mysterious ways while Crowley is the voice of atheists but it works. It is also pretty cool how they tie it up with the rest of the plot. But is it just us or does something feel off with Gabriel? Is he messing with them? Does he get his memories back or did he never lose them in the first place? Maybe he sabotaged them – how else did Crowley and Aziraphale’s miracle be confused as a miracle done by an archangel? if it is indeed them, how powerful are they together? As for the episode 2 flashbacks to Job’s trial, there is something definitely sinister afoot. Does it have something to do with Job’s quote on the matchbox? It wouldn’t be too far-fetched to believe that Job is the one responsible for Gabriel’s memory loss or the magical jukebox in the Scottish pub. As for our dynamic duo, looks like they are taking the role of matchmakers pretty seriously. They have no idea how love works and with their only reference being Richard Curtis and Jane Austen, we are so ready for the hijinks to ensue. Previous Episode | Next Episode | You can read our season 2 review of Good Omens here! | - Episode Rating (5)


--- [Good Omens S2E2 "The Clue" Recap - TV Tropes] ---
Season 2, Episode 2 The Clue Aziraphale and Crowley investigate why Gabriel has amnesia and is on Earth, with their biggest clues being a song Gabriel sang and their involvement with the story of Job. Tropes That Appear In This Episode: - Accomplice by Inaction: Gabriel seems to think that Heaven is blameless for Job's tragedy because they aren't the ones killing his children. They're just... not stopping Hell from killing them. - Beethoven Was an Alien Spy: Apparently Jane Austen was a criminal mastermind who organised a major diamond heist and ran her own smuggling and spy operations. Crowley is genuinely surprised to learn she wrote some books, too. - Berserk Button: Crowley acts rather offensively when Aziraphale asks him if he can use the Bentley, right down to implying they share it. - Big Eater: When Crowley introduces Aziraphale to the concept of eating, he realizes he likes the taste of beef and spends a chunk of the night stuffing his face while the weather thunders outside. - Capital Letters Are Magic: Aziraphale believes the song Gabriel sings is a Clue to the mystery. Crowley accuses him of pronouncing the capital letter. - Caught in the Rain: Crowley is convinced that all they have to do is get Maggie and Nina caught in a sudden downpour together and they'll immediately fall for each other. - Comically Wordy Contract: Evidence of The Bet between God and Satan takes the form of a scroll describing it in detail. It's so long that when Crowley unrolls it, it unrolls across the various hills of a vast canyon and circles back to the cliff-face where Crowley and Aziraphale were conversing. - Composite Character: Here it's revealed that one of many Biblical figures Crowley played was Bildad the Shuhite. Ironically, in the Book of Job, Bildad was the one who cited Job's children dying as proof of his wickedness, while Crowley was tasked with killing them and instead fakes resurrecting them. - Credits Gag: The main-theme is played using Middle Eastern instruments in reflection of the Book of Job plot. - Dance of Romance: Discussed. When discussing romcom tactics to make Nina and Maggie fall in love, Aziraphale cites Jane Austen's dances as emotional turning points.Aziraphale: Cotillion balls. People would gather and do some formal dancing and then realize they had misunderstood each other and were actually deeply in love. Crowley: Now that sounds unlikely. Aziraphale: Works every time apparently. - Erotic Eating: The scene in which Aziraphale discovers the pleasure of eating while devouring an ox is filmed very sensually. Aziraphale and Crowley are close together in a dark, intimate space, and as Aziraphale eats, Crowley watches him with the intensity of someone who's just discovered a new kink. Hilariously, this will be the first of several times in-series in which Crowley offers food just so he can watch Aziraphale eat it. - Everybody Has Standards: Both Aziraphale and Crowley are deeply troubled by the events of the Book of Job. For Aziraphale, he's horrified that Heaven is just going to sit back and let Hell steamroll all over Job's life and kill his loved ones over a bet of all things. In Crowley's case, it's been established that he's not all that comfortable with killing — especially children — and he pulls every trick in the book to get out of it while still looking like he's doing his job. - Exact Words: Crowley tells Aziraphale, "I long to destroy the blameless children of blameless Job, just as I destroyed his blameless goats." He wasn't lying. Crowley didn't destroy Job's goats, turning them into birds instead, and in just that same way he saves Job's children by turning them into lizards. - Forced Transformation: Crowley couldn't actually bring himself to kill Job's innocent goats, so he turned them into crows. Aziraphale notices this when the crows bleat and turns them back. Crowley later turns Job's children into geckos. - Innocently Insensitive: None of the angels (apart from Aziraphale, of course) seem to understand why smiting and replacing one's farm animals isn't on par with doing the same with one's children. Gabriel doesn't even know how babies are made, let alone the logistics of a woman in her late fifties in Biblical times having seven kids to replace the three kids she already lost. - Insane Troll Logic: Gabriel/"Jim" seems to think that the best system for filing books is putting them in alphabetical order according to the first sentence on the first page. Aziraphale starts to protest that customers will never be able to find the book they want under that system, and then he remembers that unlike human booksellers, he doesn't actually want customers buying his books, so he tells Jim to go ahead. - King of All Cosmos: When God gives Her famous speech to Job in Her ineffable ways, a large chunk of it seemed to be about ostriches and whales. Not only that, but Crowley overhears some of it and thinks that She's just taking the time to ask him questions. Not because She wants answers, but She doesn't get to ask questions very often, being omniscient and all. - Know-Nothing Know-It-All: Gabriel claims he knows all about the human birthing process because he was present for the very first birth. Except, as Aziraphale points out, Eve's birth was very different to how these things usually happen. Crowley and Aziraphale take advantage of his lack of knowledge when staging the "births" of Job's "new" children. - Lack of Empathy: The angels have absolutely no tact and compassion while telling Job and Sitis that their three children are dead. - Little Known Facts: Crowley knows Jane Austen by her work in espionage, smuggling and the 1810 Clerkenwell Diamond Robbery, but is surprised when he finds out that she was also a published author (the thing people actually know her for). - My God, What Have I Done?: Aziraphale is very distraught over his choice to actively aid the demon Crowley in his trickery against Heaven to save Job's kids, even if it was for a purpose he agrees is good. He believes he'll fall to Hell for it, but Crowley comforts him about it. - Not So Above It All: God's first and only appearance in the second season plays Her surprisingly cruel part in the original Book of Job straight, grilling Job over how he knows nothing when he asks for clarification. (Although She isn't very rude with Her questions, mostly just asking Job about ostriches and whales rather than daring him to control the behemoths and leviathans or anything like that.) - "Not So Different" Remark: When Aziraphale worries over what he is now, Crowley answers that he's "just an angel that goes along with Heaven as long as he can," much like he referred to himself earlier in the cellar. - The Queen's Latin: The people of the Land of Uz in Biblical times speak in British accents. - Recursive Reality: One of the books Gabriel sorts in Aziraphale's shop is Good Omens. - Replacement Goldfish: The angels believe that Job and Sitis will be perfectly happy with a new set of children to replace the ones killed as part of God's test. Aziraphale is the only one who recognises that that's not how humans work. Job and Sitis are devastated, with the latter even threatening to curse God for it. Luckily Aziraphale and Crowley had saved the children, and come up with a plan to pass them off as the "new" children. - Shout-Out: - Gabriel as "Jim" hands Saraqael a Discworld book.note Not a coincidence that that book series is written by the late Terry Pratchett, who also co-wrote the original Good Omens book. - Crowley got his plan to have it rain on Maggie and Nina from a Richard Curtis film, presumably Four Weddings and a Funeral. - Spoiled Brat: Job's son comes across as a haughty hedonist who knows his father is God's favorite person and throws it around to get what he wants. Naturally, he's the first to get turned into a gecko. - Tautological Templar: When Aziraphale expresses horror at the tribulations God has planned for Job, the other angels justify it as them being the good guys. - That Liar Lies: Crowley repeatedly acts the Hypocrite during the Job-plot. He fakes killing the goats, he claims he wants to kill Job's kids when he really doesn't, he threatens to destroy them by burning their home down, only to teleport them safely into the cellar, etc. - Two Lines, No Waiting: This episode follows both the present day, where Aziraphale and Crowley find out Heaven's investigation into their half-miracles, and the events of the Book of Job, where Crowley and Aziraphale go through the motions of taking everything Job owns as part of God and Satan's bet, including his children. - Wouldn't Hurt a Child: Crowley claims that he'll kill Job's children, but he just turns them into geckos. - You Are Better Than You Think You Are: When Crowley comes to Aziraphale after saving Job's kids, the angel thinks he's been sent to bring him to Hell for thwarting God's will. Instead, Crowley just shrugs and is willing to keep it between them, thinking he shouldn't be so hard on himself. - Zany Scheme: Aziraphale convinces the angels that his alarm-blaring miracle was caused by him trying to make Nina fall in love with Maggie, so now he and Crowley have to make that happen in order to keep Heaven off their backs.


--- [The Clue | Good Omens Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Clue is the second episode of Season 2 of the Prime Video original series Good Omens series, and eight overall. It premiered on July 28, 2023. Synopsis[] Heaven and Hell are determined to find the missing angel. An overheard song provides Aziraphale with a Clue. Crowley and Aziraphale visit the pub to discuss ways that humans fall in love. While almost 5,000 years ago Crowley is sent to inflict punishments on the righteous Job, God's favourite person, as Aziraphale learns at first hand about temptation, and what Gabriel will and won't believe. Plot[] In the Land of Uz, 2500 BC. Crowley sports a big bushy beard as he prepares to cast a spell that will instantly kill all of Job’s goats. All while Aziraphale floats in ready to stop Crowley from killing all of these innocent creatures. It’s a reunion of sorts, these old acquaintances being brought back together once again. Crowley argues that he has a permit to kill these animals, God has agreed to this seemingly evil act. There’s even a contract to prove it. Aziraphale checks over the contract in Heaven, it’s all above board. God has made a bet with Satan. They want to see if Job will still be loyal even after all his belongings and children are taken from him. Aziraphale is disgusted by this test and begins to question God’s will himself. Gabriel defends God, stating that we need to trust in God’s plan. Job will be rewarded for his participation. God will give Job twice as many goats and children for the trial. Aziraphale is still unsure; thus it is here, he starts to doubt God’s actions like Crowley once did. In the present, Gabriel begins to alphabetize Aziraphale’s book collection. As he flicks through the books, he sings Buddy Holly’s "Everyday". Aziraphale asks the local record shop owner Maggie for a copy of this song. He is handed an LP that is from The Resurrectionist pub in Edinburgh, which he believes may be a clue. After locating the miracle, Michael, Uriel, and Saraqael descend upon Aziraphale’s bookshop. Thankfully the miracle has worked, and they don’t recognize Gabriel, the individual that they are after. They think he is just Aziraphale’s assistant. Aziraphale lies about the miracle, saying how he made neighbors Maggie and Nina fall in love. In reality, Maggie is actually in love with coffee shop owner Nina, but Nina isn’t in love with Maggie. The angels buy the lie but inform Aziraphale that they will be sending someone to verify this miracle at a later date. After the angels’ visit, Aziraphale meets up with Crowley. Heaven and Hell are both after Gabriel, with these two caught up in the middle of things. They decide to play Cupid and coerce the two humans to fall in love for real so that they can carry on their lie. Find where to watch this and more with our Discovery Tool Back at the bookshop, they question Gabriel about his earliest memories. Gabriel manages to recollect one such memory. This relates back to the story of Job. Back in 2500 BC, Job was forsaken. Crowley assumes Job would blame God, but he blames himself instead. Crowley is tasked with killing Job’s three children after vaporizing Job’s 300 goats. Aziraphale arrives to stop Crowley from killing the innocent children. Ironically, Job’s kids are quite the arrogant, spoilt little brats. It’s revealed that Crowley never actually killed the goats, and he wants to protect the children as well. They wait out a storm together, waiting for the coming of the angels. Crowley tempts Aziraphale into dining on the carcass of an ox. They then discuss where their loyalties lie. Crowley is happy to play both Heaven and Hell as long as he comes out on top. Aziraphale comments on how lonely that must be. The next day, Job talks with God. He passes God’s test and is rewarded with 600 goats. Gabriel then offers him 7 new children. Job and his wife want their old children back, though. Crowley steps in, pretending to aid in the birth of Job’s three new children. Really, he magics Job’s old children back. Thus, the angels seem to have been tricked by Crowley and Aziraphale’s plan. Gabriel is still suspicious, though, so he asks Aziraphale for the truth. Aziraphale lies to Gabriel and the other angels, adamant that the children are new ones. He is starting to become corrupt, just like Crowley now. Aziraphale fears that he will be banished to Hell for his lies, but Crowley promises to keep his crimes a secret. A friendship between the two starts to form. Aziraphale doesn’t know what he is anymore, calling himself a fallen angel. Crowley comments on how Aziraphale is an angel who goes along with Heaven for as long as he can. They are both very similar at this point, angels that have questioned God’s actions. Although Aziraphale seems to have gotten away with it for the time being. Back in the present, Aziraphale asks to borrow Crowley’s car while he goes and investigates their first clue. Cast[] Starring[] - Michael Sheen as Aziraphale - David Tennant as Crowley - Jon Hamm as Archangel Gabriel - Miranda Richardson as Shax - Nina Sosanya as Nina - Maggie Service as Maggie Guest Starring[] - Frances McDormand as The Voice of God - Doon Mackichan as Archangel Michael - Quelin Sepulveda as Muriel - Liz Carr as Saraqael - Gloria Obianyo as Uriel - Peter Davison as Job - Andi Osho as Sitis - Ty Tennant as Ennon Co-Starring[] - Tim Downie as Mr. Brown - Sienna Arif-Knights as Keziah - Cherry Mitra as Jemimah Gallery[] Promotional stills[] Trivia[] - Peter Davison is David Tennant's father-in-law.


--- [Good Omens season 2 episode 2 recap: A Biblical bet] ---
Good Omens season 2 episode 2 recap: A Biblical bet *This article contains spoilers for Good Omens season 2 episode 2, "The Clue"* Good Omens season 2 kicked off with the Supreme Archangel Gabriel (Jon Hamm) turning up on Aziraphale's (Michael Sheen) doorstep completely naked without a clue of who he is — see our Good Omen season 2 episode 1 recap for full details — and ended with the angel teaming up with his closest associate, Crowley the demon (David Tennant) to protect him from the forces of Heaven and Hell. In episode two, we get another flashback to a moment from the pair's history that saw them problem-solving a way through another Heaven vs Hell scenario, and a few angels dropped by the bookstore after picking up on the miracle the pair had done. Here's our recap for Good Omens season 2 episode 2. 2500 BC We join the dynamic duo in the past, as Crowley is about to sacrifice some goats to Satan. Aziraphale arrives on the scene to stop him... but Crowley reveals he's actually got a permit to carry out his evil deed. Aziraphale takes the lengthy contract up to Heaven and has it checked over by Muriel, who confirms that everything's above board, and Crowley is indeed allowed to kill the goats (who are owned by the Biblical figure, Job). As it turns out, Satan and the Almighty God have a bet on about Job, and so he's being tested. Satan bets he won't remain loyal to God if he loses everything, including all his belongs and his children. If he passes the test, Job will be rewarded with twice as much as what he's lost, including twice as many new children... an arrangement that Aziraphale isn't exactly thrilled by. It's here that he starts doubting God's will, just like his demonic companion. Gabriel's clue We jump to the present day. Aziraphale has enlisted Gabriel as an assistant bookseller, and he's busying himself by alphabetizing his books... by the first letter of each sentence. Whilst working, he mindlessly sings lyrics from the Buddy Holly song, 'Everyday', though he can't place where he's heard the song before. Aziraphale seeks out Maggie at the record shop and is handed a copy that comes from The Resurrectionist pub in Edinburgh, after she lays out her feelings for Nina to him. Maggie explains that she's got tons of copies of the same song from the pub because every single they play eventually turns into a copy of Everyday. He believes this could be a clue to the Gabriel mystery. Shax pays Crowley another visit. Beelzebub and Shax believe Aziraphale is connected to Gabriel's disappearance, and Shax wants him to source more info. It's at this point that the angels descend on Aziraphale's bookstore. The angels have landed Having located the source of the miracle from episode one, Michael, Uriel and Saraqael descend from Heaven and head to the bookstore. The miracle is proven to have worked, as they don't seem to recognize Gabriel as anyone other than a bookseller. When asked about the nature of the miracle he conjured, Aziraphale lies and says it was to make Maggie and Nina fall in love. He says it worked, and the angels pledge to send someone along to verify whether this is true. Obviously, it's not, so Aziraphale summons Crowley to the pub, where he tells him that the miracle had set off some alarms, and about his lie. Because Heaven are going to verify the miracle, he asks Crowley to help him fix things by actually making the pair fall for one another. Back at the bookstore, Crowley presses Gabriel to try and recollect something about the new clue they've got, and what his very first memories are. In doing so, he recalls a memory connected to the bet over Job. Back to the past In another flashback, we see Crowley speaking to Job in a burned-out husk of a home. He's still clinging onto his faith, and blames himself, rather than God for forsaking him. Crowley's next assignment is to kill Job's three children, and Aziraphale steps in to stop him all over again. Although Crowley tells him he wants to do the job, he changes his mind at the last second; he also wants to protect the children, and reveals that he didn't actually kill all of Job's goats. Instead, Crowley transforms the three kids into lizards (starting with the one who annoys him the most). Whilst the pair wait out a storm in the cellar, they debate whose side they're really on, and Crowley commits that he's willing to play both sides of the fight for his own benefit. The following day, they see Job speaking directly to God. His wife asks if he learned anything about their apparent fall from favor, but he said he barely understood most of the exchange. Gabriel and some of the other angels descend and tell Job he passed his test. They reward him with twice as many goats (600, to be precise), and give him permission to have seven more children. Job and his wife tell them they want their own children back. Crowley returns them from their amphibious form, though the angels harbor some suspicion that they're not new children. Suspicious, Gabriel demands the truth from Aziraphale, and he lies to the other angels and tells them that they are indeed completely new kids. Newfound friendship At a later point, Crowley comes across Aziraphale. He's been waiting for him to arrive as he thinks he's about to be banished to Hell for turning against God's wishes. However, Aziraphale tells him that he's not going to reveal his crimes. Back in the present, Aziraphale tells Crowley that he wants to take a trip up to The Resurrectionist to see where the clue about the record takes him, and he wants to borrow Crowley's Bentley. Reluctantly, Crowley gives him permission and remains behind to look after Gabriel and the shop. Good Omens season 2 is available to stream on Prime Video.


--- [Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2 Recap - how do Aziraphale and ...] ---
Summary The origins of Aziraphale and Crowley’s friendship is cleverly written, exploring exciting themes of morality via intriguing flashback sequences. The present storyline isn’t as well-crafted, though, as a mystery is slowly unraveled. We recap the Amazon Prime Video series Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2, “The Clue,” which contains spoilers. Good Omens focuses on the unusual friendship between Aziraphale (Michael Sheen), the angel, and Crowley (David Tennant), the demon. In “The Clue,” audiences get to see the makings of this friendship in 2500 BC. While in the present day, the duo attempts to keep Gabriel (Jon Hamm) hidden from both Heaven and Hell. Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2 Recap We start off in the Land of Uz, 2500 BC. Crowley sports a big bushy beard as he prepares to cast a spell that will instantly kill all of Job’s goats. Aziraphale floats in ready to stop Crowley from killing all of these innocent creatures. It’s a reunion of sorts, these old acquaintances being brought back together once again. What is God’s bet? Crowley argues that he has a permit to kill these animals, God has agreed to this seemingly evil act. There’s even a contract to prove it. Aziraphale checks over the contract in Heaven, it’s all above board. God has made a bet with Satan. They want to see if Job will still be loyal even after all his belongings and children are taken from him. Aziraphale is disgusted by this test and begins to question God’s will himself. Gabriel defends God, stating that we need to trust in God’s plan. Job will be rewarded for his participation. God will give Job twice as many goats and children for the trial. Aziraphale is still unsure; here, he starts to doubt God’s actions like Crowley once did. What is Aziraphale’s clue? Back in the present, Gabriel begins to alphabetize Aziraphale’s book collection. As he flicks through the books, he sings Buddy Holly’s Everyday. Aziraphale asks the local record shop owner Maggie for a copy of this song. He is handed an LP that is from The Resurrectionist pub in Edinburgh, which he believes may be a clue. After locating the miracle in the previous episode, angels Michael, Uriel, and Saraqael descend upon Aziraphale’s bookshop. Thankfully the miracle has worked, and they don’t recognize Gabriel, the individual that they are after. They think he is just Aziraphale’s assistant. Aziraphale lies about the miracle, saying how he made neighbors Maggie and Nina fall in love. In reality, Maggie is actually in love with coffee shop owner Nina, but Nina isn’t in love with Maggie. The angels buy the lie but inform Aziraphale that they will be sending someone to verify this miracle at a later date. After the angels’ visit, Aziraphale meets up with Crowley. Heaven and Hell are both after Gabriel, with these two caught up in the middle of things. They decide to play Cupid and coerce the two humans to fall in love for real so that they can carry on their lie. Back at the bookshop, they question Gabriel about his earliest memories. Gabriel manages to recollect one such memory. This relates back to the story of Job. Cue another flashback. In 2500 BC, Job was forsaken. Crowley assumes Job would blame God, but he blames himself instead. What is Crowley’s job in 2500 BC? Crowley is tasked with killing Job’s three children after vaporizing Job’s 300 goats. Aziraphale arrives to stop Crowley from killing the innocent children. Ironically, Job’s kids are quite the arrogant, spoilt little brats. It’s revealed that Crowley never actually killed the goats, and he wants to protect the children as well. They wait out a storm together, waiting for the coming of the angels. Crowley tempts Aziraphale into dining on the carcass of an ox. They then discuss where their loyalties lie. Crowley is happy to play both Heaven and Hell as long as he comes out on top. Aziraphale comments on how lonely that must be. The next day, Job talks with God (voiced by Frances McDormand). He passes God’s test and is rewarded with 600 goats. Gabriel then offers him 7 new children. Job and his wife want their old children back, though. Crowley steps in, pretending to aid in the birth of Job’s three new children. Really, he magics Job’s old children back. The angels seem to have been tricked by Crowley and Aziraphale’s plan. Gabriel is still suspicious, though, he asks Aziraphale for the truth. Aziraphale lies to Gabriel and the other angels, adamant that the children are new ones. He is starting to become corrupt, just like Crowley now. Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2 Ending Explained How do Aziraphale and Crowley become friends? Aziraphale fears that he will be banished to Hell for his lies, but Crowley promises to keep his crimes a secret. A friendship between the two starts to form. Aziraphale doesn’t know what he is anymore, calling himself a fallen angel. Crowley comments on how Aziraphale is an angel who goes along with Heaven for as long as he can. They are both very similar at this point, angels that have questioned God’s actions. Although Aziraphale seems to have gotten away with it for the time being. Back in the present, Aziraphale asks to borrow Crowley’s car while he goes and investigates their first clue. What did you think of the Amazon Prime Video series Good Omens Season 2 Episode 2? Comment below.
