=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Knuth Prize - Wikipedia]
The recipient of the Knuth Prize delivers a lecture at the conference. [1] For instance, David S. Johnson "used his Knuth Prize lecture to push for practical applications for algorithms." [2] In contrast with the Gödel Prize, which recognizes outstanding papers, the Knuth Prize is awarded to individuals for their overall impact in the field.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knuth_Prize

[1996 Knuth Prize Andrew C.-C. Yao]
The recipient of the first Knuth Prize is Prof. Andrew C.-C. Yao of Princeton University, who is being honored for his fundamental research in computational complexity. For 25 years Andy Yao has been producing research papers in almost every aspect of computational complexity and many aspects of algorithmic design. These results and proof methods have typically caused a leap in the community's ...
URL: https://www.sigact.org/prizes/knuth/1996.html

[Knuth Prize - Technical Committee on Mathematical Foundations of ...]
The first Knuth Prize was presented at the 1996 ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). Prize presentations now alternate between STOC in odd years and the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) in even years.
URL: https://tc.computer.org/tcmf-demo/awards/knuth-prize/

[Nancy Lynch Named Recipient of ACM's 2007 Knuth Prize]
Jan 29, 2009 · The Knuth Prize was first awarded to Andrew C. - C. Yao, who went on to win ACM's 2000 A.M. Turing Award, considered the "Nobel Prize of computing." The Knuth Prize is given every year and a half by ACM SIGACT and the IEEE Technical Committee on the Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, and includes a $5,000 award.
URL: https://www.supercomputingonline.com/latest/applications/10406-nancy-lynch-named-recipient-of-acms-2007-knuth-prize

[Knuth Prize Explained]
The recipient of the Knuth Prize delivers a lecture at the conference.For instance, David S. Johnson "used his Knuth Prize lecture to push for practical applications for algorithms." In contrast with the Gödel Prize, which recognizes outstanding papers, the Knuth Prize is awarded to individuals for their overall impact in the field.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/%5C/Knuth_Prize/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Knuth Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Donald E. Knuth Prize is a prize for outstanding contributions to the foundations of computer science, named after the American computer scientist Donald E. Knuth.


--- [1996 Knuth Prize Andrew C.-C. Yao] ---
Andy's classic paper on Communication Complexity, perhaps the most quoted paper in Complexity Theory, introduced a fundamental model for communication and techniques for analyzing it. Communication Complexity has since developed into a major area, finding diverse and unexpected applications, with two books on the subject coming out soon. In the paper "Should Tables Be Sorted," Andy revolutionized our view of efficient information storage, leading to the optimal probabilistic perfect hashing schemes and dictionary implementations. The same paper introduced the fundamental "Cell Probe" model for analyzing data structure algorithms, which is again a major object of study. His paper on minimum spanning trees is a gem, showing the community via an O(E log log V)-time algorithm that the well-known O(E log V) time bound can be beaten. It took almost two decades to bring his O(E log log V) time result down to linear time. The article "Theory and Applications of Trap-door Functions" contains an array of fundamental results. The most important is proving that the Blum-Micali generator is pseudo-random, leading to an important "hardness vs randomness" tradeoff: if one-way permutations exist, then BPP has subexponential deterministic simulations. It also defines and studies computational entropy, introduces the XOR lemma to amplify computational difficulty, and uses it to generate hard-core bits for every function. In "How to Exchange Secrets" he introduces Oblivious Circuit Simulation, a fundamental cryptographic technique that enables private and secure computation of arbitrary functions. Previously such protocols were known for only a handful of examples. Andy's sheer technical strength was always best revealed in Circuit Complexity. After the breakthrough superpolynomial lower bounds for constant depth circuits were proved, many subsequent attempts to construct exponential-depth lower bounds failed. Andy's tour-de-force "Separating the Polynomial-Time Hierarchy by Oracles" was a major accomplishment. For these as well as numerous other outstanding achievements, Andy Yao is awarded the first Knuth Prize. Professor Yao received a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1972 in Physics and a second Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in Computer Science. Prior to joining the Princeton faculty, where he is a Full Professor in the Department of Computer Science, he held faculty positions at M.I.T., Berkeley, and Stanford. His award was presented at the 28th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), held as part of the Federated Computing Research Conference in Philadelphia, PA, May 22-24, 1996. The winner of the first Knuth Prize was chosen by an awards committee consisting of


--- [Knuth Prize - Technical Committee on Mathematical Foundations of ...] ---
Knuth Prize The Donald E. Knuth Prize for outstanding contributions to the foundations of computer science is awarded for major research accomplishments and contributions to the foundations of computer science over an extended period of time. The Prize is awarded annually by the IEEE Technical Committee on the Mathematical Foundations of Computing (TCMF) and the ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory (SIGACT). Nomination Procedure Anyone in the Theoretical Computer Science community may nominate a candidate. Nominations for the 2019 Knuth Prize were due on February 15, 2019. The nomination should state the nominee’s name, summarize his or her contributions in one or two pages, provide a CV for the nominee or a pointer to the nominee’s web page, and give telephone and email contact information for the nominator. Any supporting letters from other members of the community (up to a limit of 5) should be included in the package that the nominator sends to the Committee chair. Supporting letters should contain substantial information not in the nomination. Others may endorse the nomination simply by adding their names to the nomination letter. If you have nominated a candidate in past years, you can re-nominate the candidate by sending a message to that effect to the above address. (You may revise the nominating materials if you so desire.) Selection Criteria The winner is selected by a Prize Committee consisting of six people appointed by the SIGACT and TCMF Chairs, see below for the composition of the committee. All nominations will be considered by the Committee, including those submitted in previous years, but nomination is not a requirement to receive the Prize. Note that the Knuth Prize is awarded to a single individual each year. Nominations of groups of researchers will not be considered. In selecting the Knuth Prize winner, the Committee pays particular attention to a sustained record of high-impact, seminal contributions to the foundations of computer science. The selection may also be partly based on educational accomplishments and contributions such as fundamental textbooks and high-quality students. The award is not based on service work for the community, although service might be included in the citation for a winner if it is appropriate. The 2019 prize committee included: Avrim Blum (TTIC, Chair), Alan Frieze (CMU), Shafi Goldwasser (UC Berkeley), Noam Nisan (Hebrew U.), Ronitt Rubinfeld (MIT and Tel Aviv U.), and Andy Yao (Tsinghua U.). About the Award The first Knuth Prize was presented at the 1996 ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). Prize presentations now alternate between STOC in odd years and the IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) in even years. The winner is invited to give a lecture at the conference. About Donald E. Knuth The prize is named in honor and recognition of the extraordinary accomplishments of Prof. Donald Knuth, Emeritus at Stanford University. Prof. Knuth is best known for his ongoing multivolume series, The Art of Computer Programming, which has played a critical role in establishing and defining Computer Science as a rigorous, intellectual discipline. Prof. Knuth has also made fundamental contributions to the subfields of analysis of algorithms, compilers, string matching, term-rewriting systems, literate programming, and typography. His TeX and MF systems are widely accepted as standards for electronic typesetting. Prof. Knuth’s work is distinguished by its integration of theoretical analyses and practical, real-world concerns. In his work, theory and practice are not separate components of Computer Science but rather inexorably linked branches of the same whole. Past Winners - 2019: Avi Wigderson - 2018: Johan Håstad - 2017: Oded Goldreich - 2016: Noam Nisan - 2015: László Babai - 2014: Richard J. Lipton - 2013: Gary L. Miller - 2012: Leonid Levin - 2011: Ravi Kannan - 2010: David S. Johnson - 2008: Volker Strassen - 2007: Nancy Lynch - 2005: Mihalis Yannakakis - 2003: Miklos Ajtai - 2002: Christos Papadimitriou - 2000: Jeffrey D. Ullman - 1999: László Lovász - 1997: Leslie G. Valiant - 1996: Andrew C.-C. Yao


--- [Nancy Lynch Named Recipient of ACM's 2007 Knuth Prize] ---
The ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory (SIGACT) will present its 2007 Knuth Prize to Professor Nancy Lynch of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) for her influential contributions to the theory of distributed systems, which solve problems using multiple processes or computers connected through a shared memory or network. Professor Lynch is the first woman to receive this award since its inception in 1996. She was cited for her seminal impact on the reliability of distributed computing systems, which are used to power traditional wired networks, modern mobile communications systems, and systems with embedded computers, including factory machinery, vehicles, robots, and other real-world devices. In a career spanning more than 30 years, Professor Lynch developed new distributed algorithms, created precise models for analyzing distributed processes, and discovered limitations on what distributed algorithms can accomplish. In 1982, her research with M.J. Fischer and M.S. Paterson produced a fundamental result, commonly known as the FLP (Fischer, Lynch, Paterson) impossibility result, concerning the impossibility of distributed agreement in the presence of process failures. This breakthrough has had a monumental impact in distributed computing, both theory and practice. Professor Lynch's influence extends to practitioners who have benefited from her courses and papers aimed at non-theory audiences. Her insights on distributed computing have influenced other fields of computing including database transaction procession, hybrid systems, security, and hardware synchronization. Her textbook Distributed Algorithms introduces readers to the fundamental issues underlying the design of distributed systems, including communication, coordination, synchronization and uncertainty. In 2001, Professor Lynch was awarded the Dijkstra Prize (then known as the Principles of Distributed Computing Influential Paper Award) for her research on the FLP impossibility result. Other well-known research contributions include the I/O automata mathematical system modeling frameworks, which she conducted with M.R. Tuttle, F. Vaandrager, R. Segala, and D. Kaynar. An ACM Fellow, she is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a co-winner of the first van Wijngaarden Prize in 2006, from Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica (CWI), the national institute for research in mathematics and computer science in The Netherlands. Professor Lynch is the NEC Professor of Software Science and Engineering at MIT's Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. She heads the Theory of Distributed Systems Research Group in MIT's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL). Prior to joining MIT in 1981, she served on the faculty at Tufts University, the University of Southern California, Florida International University, and the Georgia Institute of Technology. A graduate of Brooklyn College with a B.S. in Mathematics, Professor Lynch received her Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT. The Knuth Prize is named in honor of Donald Knuth, Professor Emeritus at Stanford University, who is best known for his ongoing multivolume series, The Art of Computer Programming, which played a critical role in establishing and defining Computer Science as a rigorous intellectual discipline. The Knuth Prize was first awarded to Andrew C. - C. Yao, who went on to win ACM's 2000 A.M. Turing Award, considered the "Nobel Prize of computing." The Knuth Prize is given every year and a half by ACM SIGACT and the IEEE Technical Committee on the Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, and includes a $5,000 award. It will be presented at the ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC) conference, June 11-13, in San Diego, CA.


--- [Knuth Prize Explained] ---
No content
