=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Walensky Announces Departure from CDC]
May 5, 2023 · She served on the front line of the COVID-19 pandemic and conducted research on vaccine delivery and strategies to reach underserved communities. Walensky is recognized internationally for her work to improve HIV screening and care in South Africa and nationally for motivating health policy and informing clinical trial design and evaluation in ...
URL: https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2023/p0505-walensky.html

[CDC’s Rochelle Walensky resigns, citing pandemic transition]
May 5, 2023 · FILE – Dr. Rochelle Walensky, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, testifies during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing to examine an update ...
URL: https://www.denverpost.com/2023/05/05/cdcs-rochelle-walensky-resigns-citing-pandemic-transition/

[Centers for Disease Control's Rochelle Walensky resigns, citing ...]
May 5, 2023 · Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition. Walensky’s last day will be June 30, CDC officials said, and an interim director wasn’t immediately named. She sent a resignation letter to President Joe Biden and announced the decision at a ...
URL: https://english.elpais.com/usa/2023-05-05/centers-for-disease-controls-rochelle-walensky-resigns-citing-pandemic-transition.html

[Rochelle Walensky, head of CDC, resigns citing pandemic ... - PBS]
May 5, 2023 · Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition.
URL: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/rochelle-walensky-head-of-cdc-resigns-citing-pandemic-transition

[CDC director orders agency overhaul, admitting flawed Covid-19 response]
Aug 17, 2022 — On Wednesday, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky shared a series of changes with CDC leadership and staff designed to “transform” the organization ...
URL: https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/08/cdc-director-orders-agency-overhaul-admitting-flawed-covid-19-response-00052384


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Walensky Announces Departure from CDC] ---
Walensky Announces Departure from CDC Director launched widest-reaching reforms in decades to strengthen CDC operations, restored agency morale For Immediate Release: Friday, May 5, 2023 Contact: Media Relations (404) 639-3286 CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky announced today her intent to depart the agency at the end of June. Walensky has led CDC through a transition to greater normalcy across the country, after two years of COVID-19 related closures and waves of dangerous, new virus variants. She also launched Moving Forward – a wide-ranging set of reforms designed to strengthen CDC communications and response operations. Walensky described this moment for the agency and the country in a letter to President Joe Biden. “The end of the COVID-19 public health emergency marks a tremendous transition for our country, for public health, and in my tenure as CDC Director,” Walensky wrote. “I took on this role, at your request, with the goal of leaving behind the dark days of the pandemic and moving CDC – and public health – forward into a much better and more trusted place. “In the process, we saved and improved lives and protected the country and the world from the greatest infectious disease threat we have seen in over 100 years.” Importantly, Walensky helped restore morale and a sense of normalcy to an agency that had been enduring significant public adversity related to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Dr. Walensky has saved lives with her steadfast and unwavering focus on the health of every American,” President Joe Biden said. “As Director of the CDC, she led a complex organization on the front lines of a once-in-a-generation pandemic with honesty and integrity. Dr. Walensky leaves CDC a stronger institution, better positioned to confront health threats and protect Americans. We have all benefited from her service and dedication to public health, and I wish her the best in the next chapter.” On her watch, CDC successfully addressed a multinational mpox outbreak, contained the spread of Ebola in Uganda, and responded to countless infectious disease threats in countries around the globe. The agency also invested in America’s public health infrastructure and established pipelines to grow the public health workforce. CDC launched a center for forecasting and outbreaks and secured hundreds of millions of dollars to begin modernizing our nation’s data infrastructure. The reforms of Moving Forward are designed to orient CDC toward public health action, foster accountability and improve the timeliness and clarity of scientific communications. Changes are under way on everything from expanding the number of staff who are ready to respond to a disease outbreak to the implementation of plain language trainings to the overhaul of CDC’s website, so that it’s easier for people to find the public health information they need. Additionally, a successful reorganization expanded and strengthened the leadership team within CDC’s Immediate Office of the Director and eliminated bureaucracy. “While at CDC, I had the true gift of meeting, working with, and giving voice to thousands of people at the agency who work 24/7 to worry about health and public health so that the rest of the nation does not have to,” Walensky said. “I have never been prouder of anything I have done in my professional career.” Prior to joining CDC, Walensky served as Chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital from 2017-2020 and Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School from 2012-2020. She served on the front line of the COVID-19 pandemic and conducted research on vaccine delivery and strategies to reach underserved communities. Walensky is recognized internationally for her work to improve HIV screening and care in South Africa and nationally for motivating health policy and informing clinical trial design and evaluation in a variety of settings. ### U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CDC works 24/7 protecting America’s health, safety and security. Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are curable or preventable, chronic or acute, or from human activity or deliberate attack, CDC responds to America’s most pressing health threats. CDC is headquartered in Atlanta and has experts located throughout the United States and the world.


--- [CDC’s Rochelle Walensky resigns, citing pandemic transition] ---
By MIKE STOBBE (AP Medical Writer) NEW YORK (AP) — Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition. Walensky’s last day will be June 30, CDC officials said, and an interim director wasn’t immediately named. She sent a resignation letter to President Joe Biden and announced the decision at a CDC staff meeting. Walensky, 54, has been the agency’s director for a little over two years, and the announcement took many health experts by surprise. In her letter to Biden, she expressed “mixed feelings” about the decision and didn’t explain exactly why she was stepping down, but said the nation is at a moment of transition as emergency declarations come to an end. “I have never been prouder of anything I have done in my professional career,” she wrote. The World Health Organization said Friday that COVID-19 no longer qualifies as a global emergency, and the U.S. public health emergency will expire next week. Deaths in the U.S. are at their lowest point since the earliest days of the coronavirus outbreak in early 2020. The CDC, with a $12 billion budget and more than 12,000 employees. is an Atlanta-based federal agency charged with protecting Americans from disease outbreaks and other public health threats. Walensky, previously an infectious-diseases specialist at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, had no experience running a government health agency when she was sworn in on the first day of the Biden administration. She came with a reputation as a prominent voice on the pandemic, sometimes criticizing how the government was responding. She was brought in to raise morale at the CDC, to rebuild public trust in the agency and to improve its sometimes-bumbling response to the pandemic. At the time of her arrival, more than 400,000 U.S. COVID-19 deaths had been reported, and states were scrambling to get supplies of new vaccines. Morale at the CDC was abysmal. The Trump administration had marginalized the agency, with the White House taking over the government’s messaging about the pandemic and sometimes opposing or undermining what the CDC wanted to do. “No CDC director in history inherited the set of challenges she faced coming into the job,” said Jason Schwartz, a health policy expert at the Yale School of Public Health. The CDC regained prominence in government messaging — although even under Biden, the White House remained at center stage in the handling of the response, Schwartz said. She leaves at a time when the national COVID-19 death toll stands at about 1.1 million. Reported cases, hospitalizations and deaths have all been trending down for months. At CDC, Walensky started a center for forecasting and outbreak analytics and took steps to modernize data collection and analysis. Last year, she began a reorganization designed to make the agency more nimble and to improve its communications with the public. Biden, in a statement, said Walensky “leaves CDC a stronger institution, better positioned to confront health threats and protect Americans.” White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients applauded her performance. “Her creativity, skill and expertise, and pure grit were essential to our effective response and an historic recovery that made life better for Americans across the country,” Zients said in a statement. There were stumbles during her tenure too. In the spring of 2021, Walensky said fully vaccinated people could stop wearing masks in many settings, only to reverse course as the then-new delta variant spread. In December 2021, the agency’s decision to shorten isolation and quarantine caught many by surprise and caused confusion. Also, Walensky and other U.S. officials were criticized last year for not being aggressive enough against an emerging mpox outbreak that faded in the late summer and fall. Jennifer Nuzzo, a pandemic expert at the Brown University School of Public Health, is worried that the proposed reforms won’t happen without Walensky there to drive them. “CDC is exhausted. They have been working around the clock, nonstop, for three years with little gratitude,” she said. “To have a leadership change in the midst of all that … I can’t imagine that doesn’t take the wind out of the sails of change.” ___ The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Science and Educational Media Group. The AP is solely responsible for all content.


--- [Centers for Disease Control's Rochelle Walensky resigns, citing ...] ---
Centers for Disease Control’s Rochelle Walensky resigns, citing pandemic transition Walensky, 54, has been the agency’s director for a little over two years. She expressed “mixed feelings” about the decision and didn’t say exactly why she was stepping down, but said the nation is at a moment of transition as emergency declarations come to an end Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition. Walensky’s last day will be June 30, CDC officials said, and an interim director wasn’t immediately named. She sent a resignation letter to President Joe Biden and announced the decision at a CDC staff meeting. Walensky, 54, has been the agency’s director for a little over two years. In her letter to Biden, she expressed “mixed feelings” about the decision and didn’t say exactly why she was stepping down, but said the nation is at a moment of transition as emergency declarations come to an end. “I have never been prouder of anything I have done in my professional career,” she wrote. The World Health Organization said Friday that COVID-19 no longer qualifies as a global emergency, and the U.S. public health emergency declaration will expire next week. Deaths in the U.S. are at their lowest point since the earliest days of the coronavirus outbreak in early 2020. The CDC, with a $12 billion budget and more than 12,000 employees, is an Atlanta-based federal agency charged with protecting Americans from disease outbreaks and other public health threats. Walensky, previously an infectious-diseases specialist at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, had no experience running a government health agency when she was sworn in on the first day of the Biden administration. She came with a reputation as a prominent voice on the pandemic, sometimes criticizing certain aspects of how the government was responding. She was brought in to raise morale at the CDC, to rebuild public trust in the agency and to improve its sometimes-bumbling response to the pandemic. She started a center for forecasting and outbreak analytics, took steps to modernize data and improve the public health work force. Last year, she began a reorganization designed to make the agency more nimble and to improve its communications with the public. But there have been stumbles during her tenure too. In the spring of 2021, Walensky said fully vaccinated people could stop wearing masks in many settings, only to reverse course as the then-new delta variant spread. And in December 2021, the agency’s decision to shorten isolation and quarantine caught many by surprise and caused confusion. In a statement, White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients praised her performance. “Her creativity, skill and expertise, and pure grit were essential to our effective response and an historic recovery that made life better for Americans across the country,” Zients said. Sign up for our weekly newsletter to get more English-language news coverage from EL PAÍS USA Edition Tu suscripción se está usando en otro dispositivo ¿Quieres añadir otro usuario a tu suscripción? Si continúas leyendo en este dispositivo, no se podrá leer en el otro. FlechaTu suscripción se está usando en otro dispositivo y solo puedes acceder a EL PAÍS desde un dispositivo a la vez. Si quieres compartir tu cuenta, cambia tu suscripción a la modalidad Premium, así podrás añadir otro usuario. Cada uno accederá con su propia cuenta de email, lo que os permitirá personalizar vuestra experiencia en EL PAÍS. ¿Tienes una suscripción de empresa? Accede aquí para contratar más cuentas. En el caso de no saber quién está usando tu cuenta, te recomendamos cambiar tu contraseña aquí. Si decides continuar compartiendo tu cuenta, este mensaje se mostrará en tu dispositivo y en el de la otra persona que está usando tu cuenta de forma indefinida, afectando a tu experiencia de lectura. Puedes consultar aquí los términos y condiciones de la suscripción digital.


--- [Rochelle Walensky, head of CDC, resigns citing pandemic ... - PBS] ---
By — Mike Stobbe, Associated Press Mike Stobbe, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/rochelle-walensky-head-of-cdc-resigns-citing-pandemic-transition Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Rochelle Walensky, head of CDC, resigns citing pandemic transition Health May 5, 2023 1:00 PM EST NEW YORK (AP) — Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition. Walensky's last day will be June 30, CDC officials said, and an interim director wasn't immediately named. She sent a resignation letter to President Joe Biden and announced the decision at a CDC staff meeting. READ MORE: WHO downgrades COVID-19 pandemic, says it's no longer global emergency Walensky, 54, has been the agency's director for a little over two years. In her letter to Biden, she expressed "mixed feelings" about the decision and didn't say exactly why she was stepping down, but said the nation is at a moment of transition as emergency declarations come to an end. "I have never been prouder of anything I have done in my professional career," she wrote. The World Health Organization said Friday that COVID-19 no longer qualifies as a global emergency, and the U.S. public health emergency declaration will expire next week. Deaths in the U.S. are at their lowest point since the earliest days of the coronavirus outbreak in early 2020. The CDC, with a $12 billion budget and more than 12,000 employees. is an Atlanta-based federal agency charged with protecting Americans from disease outbreaks and other public health threats. Walensky, previously an infectious-diseases specialist at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, had no experience running a government health agency when she was sworn in on the first day of the Biden administration. WATCH: Dr. Walensky on the omicron variant, testing, vaccines and mask rules She came with a reputation as a prominent voice on the pandemic, sometimes criticizing certain aspects of how the government was responding. She was brought in to raise morale at the CDC, to rebuild public trust in the agency and to improve its sometimes-bumbling response to the pandemic. She started a center for forecasting and outbreak analytics, took steps to modernize data and improve the public health work force. Last year, she began a reorganization designed to make the agency more nimble and to improve its communications with the public. But there have been stumbles during her tenure too. In the spring of 2021, Walensky said fully vaccinated people could stop wearing masks in many settings, only to reverse course as the then-new delta variant spread. And in December 2021, the agency's decision to shorten isolation and quarantine caught many by surprise and caused confusion. In a statement, White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients praised her performance. "Her creativity, skill and expertise, and pure grit were essential to our effective response and an historic recovery that made life better for Americans across the country," Zients said. The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Science and Educational Media Group. The AP is solely responsible for all content. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now By — Mike Stobbe, Associated Press Mike Stobbe, Associated Press NEW YORK (AP) — Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, submitted her resignation Friday, saying the waning of the COVID-19 pandemic was a good time to make a transition. Walensky's last day will be June 30, CDC officials said, and an interim director wasn't immediately named. She sent a resignation letter to President Joe Biden and announced the decision at a CDC staff meeting. READ MORE: WHO downgrades COVID-19 pandemic, says it's no longer global emergency Walensky, 54, has been the agency's director for a little over two years. In her letter to Biden, she expressed "mixed feelings" about the decision and didn't say exactly why she was stepping down, but said the nation is at a moment of transition as emergency declarations come to an end. "I have never been prouder of anything I have done in my professional career," she wrote. The World Health Organization said Friday that COVID-19 no longer qualifies as a global emergency, and the U.S. public health emergency declaration will expire next week. Deaths in the U.S. are at their lowest point since the earliest days of the coronavirus outbreak in early 2020. The CDC, with a $12 billion budget and more than 12,000 employees. is an Atlanta-based federal agency charged with protecting Americans from disease outbreaks and other public health threats. Walensky, previously an infectious-diseases specialist at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, had no experience running a government health agency when she was sworn in on the first day of the Biden administration. WATCH: Dr. Walensky on the omicron variant, testing, vaccines and mask rules She came with a reputation as a prominent voice on the pandemic, sometimes criticizing certain aspects of how the government was responding. She was brought in to raise morale at the CDC, to rebuild public trust in the agency and to improve its sometimes-bumbling response to the pandemic. She started a center for forecasting and outbreak analytics, took steps to modernize data and improve the public health work force. Last year, she began a reorganization designed to make the agency more nimble and to improve its communications with the public. But there have been stumbles during her tenure too. In the spring of 2021, Walensky said fully vaccinated people could stop wearing masks in many settings, only to reverse course as the then-new delta variant spread. And in December 2021, the agency's decision to shorten isolation and quarantine caught many by surprise and caused confusion. In a statement, White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients praised her performance. "Her creativity, skill and expertise, and pure grit were essential to our effective response and an historic recovery that made life better for Americans across the country," Zients said. The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Science and Educational Media Group. The AP is solely responsible for all content. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now


--- [CDC director orders agency overhaul, admitting flawed Covid-19 response] ---
We're sorry but client doesn't work properly without JavaScript enabled. Please enable it to continue.
