=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Relationship Timeline]
July 15, 2023: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin get married Sprouse and Palvin said “I do” in the bride's home county of Hungary. The ceremony took place in a ...
URL: https://people.com/tv/dylan-sprouse-barbara-palvin-relationship-timeline/

[Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin Get Married in Stunning Hungarian ...]
Jul 19, 2023 · Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin are now husband and wife. On July 15, the longtime couple said “I do” in a ceremony held in Hungary at her parents’ property on the island of Harlekin Birtok ...
URL: https://www.today.com/popculture/news/dylan-sprouse-barbara-palvin-get-married-stunning-hungarian-wedding-rcna95023

[Barbara Palvin And Dylan Sprouse Tied the Knot in Tiffany & Co.]
Feb 10, 2026 · Model Barbara Palvin and Actor Dylan Sprouse have finally said ‘I Do’. The newlyweds got married in Barbara’s home country, Hungary, on 15 July 2023. On Tuesday afternoon, Vogue shared exclusive photos of their ceremony and reception. The beautiful bride was seen donning a series of gorgeous dresses during the celebrations.
URL: https://harpersbazaar.my/brides/barbara-palvin-and-dylan-sprouse-tiffany-co-weddings/

[Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Wedding Details - The Knot]
Aug 22, 2023 · Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's wedding took place at Harlekin Birtok, a sprawling countryside estate owned by the bride's parents. For the formal ceremony, the couple swapped vows at a church in Albertirsa, where Palvin's parents got married 34 years prior. After the religious proceedings, they hosted a civil ceremony on an island tucked away on the property before the reception began ...
URL: https://www.theknot.com/content/dylan-sprouse-relationship

[Barbara Palvin Body Measurements Height Weight Bra Size Shoe Statistics]
Barbara Palvin has become one of the most recognizable faces in the global fashion industry. Her modeling career began at the age of 13 after being discovered by a modeling scout. In 2019 Barbara became the first Hungarian model to become a Victorias Secret Ange...
URL: https://celebrityinside.com/body-measurements/model/barbara-palvin-height-weight-bra-size-vital-statistics/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Relationship Timeline] ---
Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Relationship Timeline Supermodel Barbara Palvin and actor Dylan Sprouse got married in July 2023 By Jessica Sager Jessica Sager Jessica Sager is a contributing writer at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2023. Her work has previously appeared in Parade, The New York Post, Seventeen, PopCrush and more. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on October 16, 2024 09:49AM EDT Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin attend the Salvatore Ferragamo show on June 11, 2019 in Florence, Italy. Credit : Jacopo Raule/Getty Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse are married! The supermodel and Suite Life of Zack and Cody alum tied the knot in Hungary in July 2023. The ceremony took place in a church just outside of Budapest. The pair, who had their first date in 2018, got engaged in September 2022. However, they waited nearly a year to share the big news. The couple prefers to keep the details of their relationship private, but they aren't shy about posing together on red carpets or sharing sweet glimpses into their life on Palvin's Instagram account. "I'm very much in love right now," she shared in 2018. "I feel like I found the perfect guy." From their Instagram debut to walking down the aisle, here is a look at Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's relationship timeline. 2017: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin meet at a party Sprouse and Palvin first met at a party, and following the event, the actor slid into the model's DMs. "She followed me, so I was like, I guess I'll give her something. And I slid into her DMs," Sprouse told W Magazine in 2019. "I was like, 'Hey, I don't know if you're in New York for very long, but we should hang out if you want to. Here's my number.' And she didn't message me for six months." 2018: Barbara Palvin flies to China to see Dylan Sprouse As Sprouse was heading to China for a six-month shoot, Palvin finally texted him back. The Hungarian model ultimately ended up flying to China to meet Sprouse for their first date, she said on PEOPLE Now. "I kind of flew to China to see him after talking for three months." Palvin said she was supposed to work in China but that her scheduled gig was canceled. She asked Sprouse if it was crazy that she still wanted to come to China to see him and recalled his response: "Please come." She added that he'd asked to be exclusive but that she told him she had to get to know him more — "And then I was like, 'OK, let's do it.' … I just sat down, took a deep breath, and I'm like, 'What am I waiting for? There's no other guy I would love more than I love him, and he's got everything that I need.' " The couple officially began dating in June 2018. August 4, 2018: Barbara Palvin shares a photo with Dylan Sprouse on Instagram Swan Gallet/WWD/REX/Shutterstock The couple made their relationship Instagram official when Palvin posted a photo with Sprouse for his birthday in 2018. "Even though it's your birthday I feel I just got the biggest present of all ♥️🤗," Palvin captioned a photo of her winking alongside Sprouse. "Happy birthday Boss Baby 🎂." The photo also showed off Sprouse's new look: After years of shoulder-length strands, the actor cut his hair short. November 9, 2018: Dylan Sprouse brings Barbara Palvin burgers after the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show Sprouse supported his girlfriend at the 2018 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show — her first in six years — and brought her a bag of exactly what she'd been craving. "He is bringing Shake Shack burgers for me," Palvin told PEOPLE from backstage while preparing for the catwalk. Sprouse indeed delivered, keeping the bag of burgers safe under his seat during the show. She later posted a photo of herself smooching Sprouse with the caption, "Better than burgers." November 14, 2018: Barbara Palvin says Dylan Sprouse is 'the perfect guy' Palvin made it clear that she was in love when she told Vogue Australia about her romance with Sprouse. "It's not normal for me to have a boyfriend. I was single for six years," she said. "It did pay off, I feel like I found the perfect guy. He's very kind and gentle. … That's what I do on my day off: I spend it with the people I love and I'm very much in love right now." January 2019: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse move in together Araya Doheny/WireImage Sprouse and Palvin took their relationship to the next level in January 2019 when they moved in together in Brooklyn, New York. "We moved in we only had 4 mental breakdowns!" Sprouse captioned a since-deleted photo of himself and Palvin in their new pad. Palvin posted a selfie with Sprouse with the caption, "Two worms officially in the big apple." February 8, 2019: Barbara Palvin says she still hasn't met Dylan Sprouse's twin brother, Cole Sprouse Even though Palvin and Sprouse lived together by February 2019, she still hadn't met his twin, Cole. "I still haven't met his brother," Palvin told W Magazine in an interview. "Soon!" Sprouse explained that it was because Cole was busy filming Riverdale in Vancouver. February 24, 2019: Barbara Palvin finally meets Cole Sprouse Palvin finally met Cole at the 2019 Vanity Fair Oscar party. A photo obtained by E! News showed the trio mingling together at the annual A-list soirée. Despite not meeting in the flesh for a while, Cole frequently interacted with Palvin and Sprouse on Instagram, often jokingly trolling them in their comments section. He commented on a since-deleted post of Sprouse and Palvin's W Magazine spread that the snapshots looked like "the last photos people take before they disappear in a tragic ballooning accident." March 14, 2019: Dylan Sprouse supports Barbara Palvin's new gig as a Victoria's Secret Angel Dominik Bindl/Getty The model told PEOPLE that Sprouse wasn't totally surprised when she got her wings as a Victoria's Secret Angel in March 2019. "He couldn't believe it," she recalled of telling her beau the happy news. "Then he was like, 'I told you. I knew it.' " Sprouse was the first person she called when she found out about her heavenly status — even before telling her parents! March 18, 2019: Dylan Sprouse surprises Barbara Palvin On March 19, 2019, Palvin posted a carousel of photos of a surprise celebration in honor of her new status as a Victoria's Secret Angel. "Soooo my friends surprised me last night and I only cried of shock for 2 minutes," she captioned the snapshots, several of which featured her and Sprouse together. "A new record! Thank you and I love you all." April 7, 2019: Dylan Sprouse takes over Barbara Palvin's Instagram Sprouse reluctantly took over Palvin's Instagram by posting a selfie on her account. "Hey guys it's Dylan. Babs has tasked me to write a caption before we watch another episode so I'm just writing anything to get this over with," he wrote. "Please don't judge me for this. I'm tired and lazy and just want to watch anime now. Insert witty quip here. Cheers." May 8, 2019: Barbara Palvin says it was love at first sight with Dylan Sprouse Alexander Tamargo/Getty In an interview with PEOPLE Now, Palvin was asked when she knew she wanted to be Sprouse's girlfriend. "Um, the first minute we met," she answered. June 16, 2019: Barbara Palvin marks her first anniversary with Dylan Sprouse Palvin kept her anniversary message to Sprouse simple, writing, "Happy anniversary I love you." She posted a carousel of photos on Instagram, including a candid shot from the W Magazine shoot, as well as several other pictures of her and Sprouse goofing around and laughing. August 4, 2019: Barbara Palvin wishes Dylan Sprouse a happy birthday Palvin posted a cozy black-and-white photo with Sprouse on Instagram on Aug. 4, 2019, to mark his 27th birthday. "Happy birthday to the world's best snuggler," she wrote. "Thank you for letting me be part of ur life. I'm so proud of the hard working man you are and I hope this year is filled with all the love and happiness you deserve. ♥️ I love you." September 2019: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse hit up Milan Fashion Week Piovanotto Marco/ABACA/INSTARimages.com. Sprouse and Palvin coordinated at Milan Fashion Week, where they finger-gun posed together at a Hugo Boss presentation. Palvin rocked a white suit by the fashion line, while Sprouse opted for an electric blue ensemble over a white shirt with orange details. December 6, 2019: Barbara Palvin shares a silly, sweet snap with Dylan Sprouse On Dec. 6, 2019, Palvin posted a black-and-white photo on Instagram of her and Sprouse laughing and interlocking their fingers. "I love you baby but if you poke me / tickle me one more time im gonna break ur little fingie ? ? @themattkwan," she wrote. January 2020: Dylan Sprouse says Barbara Palvin is a good cook Palvin can work a catwalk and a kitchen. Sprouse told PEOPLE that Palvin uses Sprouse's mead from All-Wise Meadery to cook. "Barbara is a fantastic chef … and so a lot of the time I eat what she likes to make," he said. "She's made some nice glazes for chicken … and reductions. She's very clever." February 9, 2020: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse attend an Oscars afterparty Gregg DeGuire/FilmMagic Palvin and Sprouse attended the 2020 Vanity Fair Oscar Party together. Palvin, sporting a gorgeous Versace gown, posted a series of photos from the evening on Instagram with the caption, "In my dream dress with my dream date ♥️." February 18, 2020: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse recount their first kiss In a video for Vogue, Palvin and Sprouse recounted their first date and first kiss. Sprouse said that on their first date in China, Palvin ate one-third of his burrito in a single bite. "Then you asked me to kiss you! That was our first kiss, after you horked down a third of my burrito," Sprouse said. Palvin joked that they'd been talking and texting for months, so she "had to take control" and recalled asking Sprouse, "Are you going to kiss me or what?" May 19, 2020: Barbara Palvin plugs Dylan Sprouse's first-ever comic book Palvin was a supportive girlfriend, endorsing Sprouse's first-ever comic book, Suneater, in an Instagram post on May 19, 2020. She posted photos from their W Magazine shoot of her brushing Sprouse's teeth as well as a snapshot of the Suneater cover, writing, "It was just a year ago when you couldn't even brush ur teeth alone and now look at you. Your first ever ‼️COMIC BOOK ‼️ SUNEATER ‼️ is up for preorder!!! (Link in Bio) It is so inspiring to watch you achieve your dreams/goals! Proud of you ♥️." June 17, 2020: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin celebrate their two-year anniversary Araya Doheny/WireImage Sprouse honored his and Palvin's two-year anniversary on June 17, 2020. He tweeted a photo of Palvin and him beaming and hugging on a mountaintop, writing, "Happy two year anniversary. Here's to us looking more alike with each passing year until we're a single beast with four arms and four legs that runs at a top speed of 50mph and screams like a baboon at nearby travelers trespassing into our woods. To many more!" He wrote in a since-deleted Instagram post that the photo was taken from a trip the couple took to Yosemite National Park's Olmstead Point. February 15, 2021: Barbara Palvin wishes Dylan Sprouse a happy Valentine's Day Palvin posted a photo of herself gazing at a stone-faced Sprouse for Valentine's Day with the caption, "My Valentine 🙇🏻♀️♥️ posting a day late cause I was too busy loving you yesterday. Thank you for being you! And thank you for baking the most delicious pumpkin pie cheesecake 🦦 I love you." August 4, 2021: Barbara Palvin wishes Dylan Sprouse a happy birthday Palvin posted a black-and-white photo of Sprouse on his 29th birthday with a sweet message to her beau referencing their love of anime. "Happy birthday to the one and only, the funniest, the handsomests, the bestest guy who ever walked the Earth, my partner in all board and video games, the Naruto to my Sasuke," she wrote. "I love you ♥️." September 10, 2021: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse share a laugh Evan Agostini/Invision/AP/Shutterstock The couple were photographed laughing together at the Revolve Gallery New York Fashion Week Event on Sept. 10, 2021. Palvin wore a short cream dress with long sleeves and a V-neckline, while Sprouse sported a burgundy suit and white shirt. October 11, 2021: Dylan Sprouse wishes Barbara Palvin a happy birthday They marked the supermodel's 28th birthday with a since-deleted Instagram post from Sprouse's account, complete with photos of him and Palvin in Oktoberfest garb. Palvin wore a white blouse under a blue skirt and apron and had her hair in pigtails, while Sprouse wore a gingham plaid shirt under a dark blue waistcoat with tan shorts. "Late but worth the wait. Happy birthday to my Oktoberfest fraulein," he wrote. "Very proud and excited to be on this journey with you. You grow greater with each passing year and I can't wait to see what this new chapter holds for us. I'll save the mushy stuff for when I see you after filming 🍻 ❤️." The couple had a cake that read "Happy Birthday Babs" as well as beer for the celebration. March 27, 2022: Barbara Palvin joins Dylan and Cole Sprouse at the Vanity Fair Oscar party Arturo Holmes/FilmMagic After meeting Cole for the first time at the Vanity Fair Oscar party in February 2019, Palvin joined him and Dylan for the magazine's 2022 Academy Awards afterparty as well. The Sprouse twins posed on the red carpet together and joked about their plans for the evening ahead. "[To] get out alive. I hear it's going to be a battle royale in there. It's the big one," Cole cracked. When asked about the last time they hit the red carpet event, Sprouse said, "I sneaked [sic] in. Did you know that 'sneaked' is the actual way to say it? A lot of people think 'snuck' is the way to say it, but that is not correct." Sprouse and Palvin also attended Elton John's Oscar viewing party earlier in the evening, where they coordinated in Armani ensembles. July 1, 2022: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse appear in a music video Both Palvin and Sprouse played a part in Bazzi's music video for his new single, "Miss America." In the video, the supermodel played a Miss America contestant, while Sprouse portrayed a judge. "Miss America song and video out now 🇺🇸 congrats @bazzi and thank you for having @dylansprouse and I ♥️♥️ we love you," Palvin captioned a series of snaps from the set. August 31, 2022: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse attend the Venice International Film Festival Stephane Cardinale - Corbis/Corbis Palvin and Sprouse were seen walking hand-in-hand on the White Noise red carpet at the Venice International Film Festival. For the event, Palvin wore a black sequin dress while Sprouse was in a black-and-white tuxedo. On September 2, the pair stepped out again for the Bones And All red carpet. Palvin was photographed in a peach dress with beaded detail while Sprouse donned a blue suit. December 16, 2022: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse go on a hike together Palvin and Sprouse took a hike with their dog in the hills of Los Angeles. "Sunny Friday hikes are the best way to kick off the weekend," the model captioned a series of images on Instagram. February 14, 2023: Dylan Sprouse brings Barbara Palvin to tears on Valentine's Day During a romantic dinner, Sprouse surprised Palvin with a special serenade by the restaurant's band. It brought the model to tears. "Happy Valentine's Day to the gal who loves trumpets to the point of tears, my Calamity Jane, the mother of our furry baby. This one's for you," The Suite Life of Zack & Cody star captioned a video on Instagram. March 2023: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin spark engagement rumors Chad Salvador/Shutterstock At the Mammoth Film Festival in California, Palvin, who was accompanied by Sprouse, was spotted wearing a sparkling diamond ring on her left ring finger. "They were showing everyone her ring. [It was] very obvious," a source told PEOPLE. However, the couple have yet to publicly announce an engagement. June 15, 2023: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin announce their engagement Chad Salvador/Shutterstock In an interview conducted by Sprouse's twin brother, Cole Sprouse, for V Magazine, the couple revealed that they got engaged in September 2022. "We didn't necessarily feel the need to be fully transparent with the public about that aspect of our engagement," Dylan said. Palvin then added: "We just [wanted] to do it on our time." The Beautiful Disaster actor and the model also shared that their wedding will take place in Hungary — where Palvin was born and raised. "I’m excited to show that side of me and introduce my culture, the places I grew up, and the places I went to. I feel like a lot of people will learn even more about me this way," she said. "I know there was no way we would have not had a wedding in Hungary because my parents would have killed me." July 15, 2023: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin get married Sprouse and Palvin said “I do” in the bride's home county of Hungary. The ceremony took place in a church outside of Budapest, where the two were photographed walking arm in arm in their wedding garb. July 18, 2023: Barbara Palvin says she and Dylan Sprouse are planning an American wedding Dylan Sprouse/Instagram Palvin and Sprouse are planning a second, larger wedding in California, where the Disney star grew up. “[This past weekend] was supposed to be an intimate event,” the model told Vogue of their Hungary nuptials. “But we ended up having 115 guests because there are a lot of people we care about and we wanted them all to be there.” She added: “We’re excited to go back to L.A., to our pets, and rest a bit — before we start planning the American wedding." October 8, 2023: Dylan Sprouse celebrates Barbara Palvin's 30th birthday Dylan Sprouse Instagram The couple celebrated the model's 30th birthday in Napa Valley, California. "Happy dirty 30 to my wife. Truly, I’ve never enjoyed being drunk on a locomotive before, but you really know how to keep me on my toes!" Sprouse captioned photos on Instagram from their wine-tasting trip. February 2024: Dylan Sprouse shares details of his proposal to Barbara Palvin During an appearance on the Tamron Hall Show, Sprouse opened up about proposing to Palvin in Big Sur — a location he chose because it's "one of the most populated sea otter zones in California." "So, I was like, 'Okay, we're gonna get down on the knee there's gonna be tons of sea otters all around ... and as soon as we were walking in to the wildlife park, one of the rangers came up and said, 'Hey, just to let you guys know, we haven't seen sea otters here in months,' " he said. "I was like, all right, we're here anyway, and I'm already in a button-down on a hike.' " As it turned out, all wasn't lost. He "got down on one knee over a beautiful vista, did the thing, she said yes, thankfully, and then immediately afterwards, we see a little head bob out of the water." Sprouse added that the otter's appearance was "fated" because it "came up as soon as she said yes." October 15, 2024: Dylan Sprouse supports Barbara Palvin at the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show Dylan Sprouse. Theo Wargo/Getty Sprouse played the supportive husband role at the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. He cheered for Palvin and held up two cardboard cutouts of their pets, french bulldog Piggy Cow and cat Klaus Von Sprouse, as she walked down the runway in a sparkly dress and silver wings. "I love you, baby!" he yelled from the front row. Close Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Relationships


--- [Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin Get Married in Stunning Hungarian ...] ---
Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin are now husband and wife. On July 15, the longtime couple said “I do” in a ceremony held in Hungary at her parents’ property on the island of Harlekin Birtok, according to Vogue. The 29-year-old model spoke to the publication after the nuptials and revealed that the newlyweds will have a bigger wedding in California in the fall. “(This past weekend) was supposed to be an intimate event,” Palvin said. “But we ended up having 115 guests, because there are a lot of people we care about and we wanted them all to be there.” They exchanged their vows in the same Albertirsa church where her parents wedded 34 years ago before having a separate civil ceremony. Since the wedding was held in the Victoria’s Secret Angel’s native country, her sister, Anita, helped her prepare for the special day. Sprouse, 30, told Vogue, “We didn’t have a planner so Barbara and her sister planned most of it.” He joked, “They told me my only job is to show up and say the right name.” His twin brother, Cole Sprouse, was his best man. The “Beautiful Disaster” actor recalled seeing his wife walk down the aisle. “Since we were already done with the ceremony in the church we were a little calmer for the second part,” he said. “Before walking down the aisle we were nervous, but as soon as we laid eyes on each other we just started laughing, and this calmed our nerves. Of course we both ended up crying.” The fashion magazine reported that the bride wore a custom strapless Vivienne Westwood wedding gown and Tiffany & Co. jewelry, including a choker. Her bridesmaids wore different shades of cool pastels. Sprouse sported a classic black tuxedo. Palvin donned a shorter dress, designed by Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini, with a fuller skirt, bow and crisscross back for the reception. “It was the best choice,” she gushed about her second look. “The dress made me feel like a modern princess.” For her third dress of the evening, Palvin needed a red gown to honor a Hungarian tradition known as “menyecske ruha,” she explained. The model said, “There was no question — I had to wear a Hungarian designer for this one, so I chose Mero.” So what’s next for the bride and groom? Well, Palvin said she first has to adjust to being referred to as Mrs. Sprouse. She shared, “Dylan’s been calling me his wife for three years now, so there’s not a lot of adjusting on his end. We’re excited to go back to L.A. to our pets and rest a bit — before we start planning the American wedding.” The pair, who have been together for five years, publicly confirmed their engagement for the first time in a June interview with V Magazine. They told Cole Sprouse, who conducted the interview, that they had been engaged since September 2022 and that they fell in love years ago after bonding over “Naruto.” During their chat, the “After We Collided” actor said he couldn’t wait for their families to come together for the first time at the ceremony. “I think it’s exciting for me, not only because I love the kind of historical traditions of the event, but because, Cole, we came from a very small family unit,” he shared at the time. “Barbara, on the other hand, has quite a large family unit. They look at her like their princess and I think it’s going to be a really special moment to see them all reacting to that amidst their traditions.”


--- [Barbara Palvin And Dylan Sprouse Tied the Knot in Tiffany & Co.] ---
Our favourite couple have tied the knot! Model Barbara Palvin and Actor Dylan Sprouse have finally said ‘I Do’. The newlyweds got married in Barbara’s home country, Hungary, on 15 July 2023. On Tuesday afternoon, Vogue shared exclusive photos of their ceremony and reception. The beautiful bride was seen donning a series of gorgeous dresses during the celebrations. One in particular that caught our eye was her timeless Vivienne Westwood wedding dress. No momentous journey is complete without a set of sparkling jewels to add some glamour to the occasion. And the lovebirds were spotted flaunting Tiffany & Co. jewels during their nuptials. Aside from their Tiffany & Co wedding bands, the bride sparkled in a Tiffany Victoria necklace and earrings while Sprouse wore a Schlumberger by Tiffany & Co. brooch. Barbara also wore a Tiffany Knot Double Row necklace and bangle for their reception, and Dylan sported an Elsa Peretti Amapola brooch with two Tiffany Lock bangles. In June 2023, the couple celebrated their engagement with a trip to Tiffany & Co’s newly opened Landmark in New York City. You can read all about the stunning boutique here. How did Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse meet? According to W Magazine, the couple met at a party in 2017 and got her attention by sliding into her DMs. Dylan then shared in the interview his message with Barbara, ‘Hey, I don’t know if you’re in New York for very long, but we should hang out if you want to. Here’s my number.’ And she didn’t message me for six months.” Coincidentally, Sprouse was all set to book a movie in China for six months. In the interview, the actor expressed his conversation with his manager. ‘Dylan, is there anything you wish you had wrapped up before you left?’ Like any fairytale story, the actor shared that Barbara popped into his head and said, “I wish I had time to take this girl on a date.” And funny enough, Barbara messaged him back ten minutes later for the first time in six months. And the rest is history. Fast forward to five years, and the couple has now become husband and wife, and we couldn’t be happier. The couple is also planning another celebration in California, which will take place in the coming months. _____________________________________________________________________ All images credited to Getty Images Amalina Anuar Amalina Anuar is the Digital Director of Harper's BAZAAR Malaysia. With fashion as her first love, she also has a passion for the beauty realm. While she often showcases neutral tones in her wardrobe, her music playlist is just as vibrant and you'll find her enjoying a good tune throughout the day. A connoisseur of cinematic delights, she finds joy in the heartwarming escapism of rom-coms and the soul-stirring narratives of tear-jerkers.


--- [Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Wedding Details - The Knot] ---
Inside Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Hungarian Destination Wedding The *sweet* life, indeed. Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin are married. The couple tied the knot in Palvin's native Hungary on Saturday, July 15—and although it was meant to be an "intimate" event, the bride told Vogue that they celebrated the milestone with 115 loved ones. "All the people we love and care for were there," she told the outlet. "We all cried a little." Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's wedding took place at Harlekin Birtok, a sprawling countryside estate owned by the bride's parents. For the formal ceremony, the couple swapped vows at a church in Albertirsa, where Palvin's parents got married 34 years prior. After the religious proceedings, they hosted a civil ceremony on an island tucked away on the property before the reception began. When it came to fashion, the bride knew she'd wear a Vivienne Westwood gown. Barbara Palvin's wedding dress was a simple scoop-neck silhouette with a full skirt, which she accessorized with a custom '90s-inspired Tiffany & Co. choker. She also collaborated with Jimmy Choo's creative director Sandra Choi on a bespoke collection of shoes and handbags to wear throughout the day. During the ceremony, she styled her wedding dress with the brand's Love Pump in ivory satin. She would go on to wear two more dresses: a short frock with a crisscross back by Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini, which she says made her feel like a "modern princess," and a red gown as a nod to her heritage. "There is also a Hungarian tradition where you have to wear a red dress after midnight—it's called menyecske ruha," she told Vogue. "There was no question—I had to wear a Hungarian designer for this one, so I chose Mero. They created the dress of my dreams. It was sexy and sweet but also comfortable—exactly what I wanted." The bride donned yet another pair of Jimmy Choo heels, the Aurelie 65, which she customized with a crystal strap and a heartfelt personal touch on the soles: "D ♥️ B" on one and their wedding date on the other. "It's been such a joy working with Barbara to create special pieces for her wedding," Choi said of their collaborative experience. "She had an incredibly clear vision of the day, how she wanted to look and how her shoes and accessories would play a part in it. We wanted to create something that was enjoyable to wear at every stage of the day creating lasting memories." The groom, who opted for a traditional tuxedo, told Vogue that their nerves were high by the time the party began. "We still had our first dance in front of us, and we were a bit stressed about it," he recalled. "But after we were done with that, we just enjoyed the great food and live music. We did a few pálinka shots and listened to some traditional Hungarian music as well while playing wedding games—if you want to know more, you had to be there!" Luckily for fans of Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin, the fun isn't totally over yet. The newlyweds are set to tie the knot once again in the near future, this time in the US. Sprouse and Palvin discussed their wedding plans in June 2023 with their exclusive engagement announcement in V Magazine's V143 Fall Preview 2023 Issue. The couple confirmed that they'd exchange vows in Hungary, and The Knot Editors expected the destination wedding to highlight both American and Hungarian wedding traditions. "I'm excited to show that side of me and introduce my culture, the places I grew up, and the places I went to," Palvin told her future brother-in-law (Cole Sprouse) in the V Magazine profile. "I feel like a lot of people will learn even more about me this way." Joking, she added, "I know there was no way we would have not had a wedding in Hungary because my parents would have killed me." Despite the distance from the US, it was also hinted the couple's famous friends would be in attendance. "It's gonna be a big event, with both of our parents meeting for the first time, too," Dylan said in the same interview. "I think it's exciting for me, not only because I love the kind of historical traditions of the event, but because, Cole, we came from a very small family unit. Barbara, on the other hand, has quite a large family unit. They look at her like their princess and I think it's going to be a really special moment to see them all reacting to that amidst their traditions." As part of their engagement announcement, Sprouse shared a photo of the two on Instagram with the caption, "Sprouses to be." Palvin also posted a video from the photoshoot, in which she can be seen wearing a white lace dress with a veil in front of a tiered wedding cake while cradling Sprouse's face. "With the power invested in V I am a Sprouse to be," she captioned the announcement. Although very few photos have been seen of Barbara Palvin's engagement ring, she was styled in head-to-toe Tiffany & Co. jewels for the campaign. Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's Relationship Timeline Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin's engagement and wedding news comes five years after they began dating in 2018. We break down the couple's relationship timeline here. 2017: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin Meet at a House Party Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin first met at a house party in 2017, and their romance began in a very modern way. "She followed me, so I was like, I guess I'll give her something," Sprouse told V Magzine in 2019. "And I slid into her DMs. I was like, 'Hey, I don't know if you're in New York for very long, but we should hang out if you want to. Here's my number.' And she didn't message me for six months." June 2018: The Two Reconnect in China In their 2023 V Magazine campaign, in which the fiancés were interviewed by Dylan's twin brother Cole Sprouse, Dylan shed light on how Barbara ultimately rekindled their instant connection. "We had gone our separate ways for six months, then she hit me up six months later while I was filming this movie," he remembered. "She was like, 'Hey, I'm in New York, do you want to hang out?' I was like, 'Look, you picked the worst possible time, Barbara, because I'm going to be in China for six months.' She told me in return, 'No, actually, I don't think it's the worst time because I'm going to have a campaign out there in about two months.'" As it turns out, that modeling campaign was canceled—but that didn't stop Barbara from flying out to meet Dylan. And the rest, as they say, was history. August 4, 2018: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse Go Instagram-Official Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin officially began dating in June 2018, and they made their romance Instagram official on Dylan's birthday. "Even though it's your birthday I feel I just got the biggest present of all ♥️🤗," Barbara captioned an Instagram post on August 4. "Happy birthday Boss Baby." November 2018: Palvin Opens Up About Her Relationship In November, the Sports Illustrated model opened up about their relationship in an interview with Vogue Australia, where she took the outlet along with her on a day off. "It's not normal for me to have a boyfriend. I was single for six years," she shared. "It did pay off, I feel like I found the perfect guy. He's very kind and gentle." She added: "That's what I do on my day off: I spend it with the people I love and I'm very much in love right now." January 2019: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin Move In Together Just after the turn of the new year, Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin celebrated another milestone: they moved in together! Palvin shared an Instagram selfie of her and her boyfriend in their new Brooklyn apartment, writing, "Two worms officially in the big apple." February 2020: Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse Attend Vanity Fair's Oscars Party The following year, Barbara and Dylan looked as stylish as ever at Vanity Fair's Oscars afterparty. The model—who wore an elegant Versace dress for the occasion—documented the evening on Instagram, calling her boyfriend "my dream date." March 2023: Dylan Sprouse and Barbara Palvin Spark Engagement Rumors Five years into their relationship, rumors began to swirl that Barbara Palvin and Dylan Sprouse were engaged. Sources told People Magazine that Palvin was seen wearing a large diamond ring at the Mammoth Film Festival in California. "They were showing everyone her ring," an insider revealed. "[It was] very obvious." June 2023: Sprouse and Palvin Confirm Their Engagement The model and actor shared their engagement with a fun play on words: "Sprouses to be," Dylan shared on social media. July 2023: The Couple Marry in Hungary Close to one month later, Palvin was photographed walking to a local Hungarian chapel in a wedding dress and veil. Local outlets reported she had married Sprouse in her native country, which was later confirmed by Vogue.


--- [Barbara Palvin Body Measurements Height Weight Bra Size Shoe Statistics] ---
Barbara Palvin Body Measurements Height Weight Bra Size Shoe Statistics Barbara Palvin has become one of the most recognizable faces in the global fashion industry. During her childhood, Barbara showed interest in various activities such as football and singing, but her life took a defining turn at the age of 13 after being discovered by a modeling scout. Her natural beauty and photogenic presence quickly captured international attention, leading to features in top magazines including Vogue, Glamour Hungary, L’Officiel, and Jalouse. Barbara’s runway debut came in 2010 when she walked for Prada at Milan Fashion Week. This pivotal moment propelled her into the world of high fashion. Over the years, she has worked with renowned fashion houses such as Armani Exchange, Chanel, Louis Vuitton, H&M, and Miu Miu. In 2019, Barbara reached one of the highest honors in the modeling world when she was named a Victoria’s Secret Angel, becoming the first Hungarian model to earn that title. Her work with the brand solidified her status as an international supermodel. In addition to her modeling career, Barbara has explored acting. She made her film debut in 2014 with a small role in Hercules, starring Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson. As for her personal life, Barbara Palvin began dating American actor Dylan Sprouse in 2018 after meeting through mutual friends. After five years together, they married in July 2023. Summary: - Profession: Model and actress, best known for her work with Victoria’s Secret. - Height: 5 feet 9 inches (175 cm) - Shoe Size: US 9 - Net Worth: $6 million. - Personal Life: She is married to actor Dylan Sprouse. - Fun Fact: Barbara became the first Hungarian model to become a Victoria’s Secret Angel in 2019. Barbara Palvin Personal Details: - Complete Name: Barbara Palvin - Nicknames: Barbie, Barbellos - Date of Birth: October 8, 1993 - Birthplace: Budapest, Hungary - Nationality: Hungarian - Occupation: Model, Actress - Zodiac Sign: Libra - Religion: Christian - Race/Ethnicity: White - Eye Color: Blue - Hair Color: Light Brown Barbara Palvin Body Measurements, Family Members, Net Worth Barbara Palvin Family Details: - Father’s Name: István Palvin - Mother’s Name: Ágnes Palvin - Siblings: Anita Palvin (Sister) - Spouse Name: Dylan Sprouse (m. 2023–present) - Children: None Barbara Palvin Relationships History: Barbara Palvin was previously linked to several public figures, including Canadian pop star Justin Bieber and Formula 1 driver Lewis Hamilton. In 2018, she began dating actor Dylan Sprouse. The couple married in July 2023. Barbara Palvin Career Highlights: Early & Breakthrough Barbara’s modeling career began at the age of 13 after being discovered in Budapest. Her international breakthrough came when she appeared on the cover of L’Officiel and walked for major fashion houses like Prada, Louis Vuitton, and Chanel. Mainstream Stardom Her natural beauty and striking looks made her one of the most in-demand models of her generation. She became a face of L’Oréal Paris and appeared in campaigns for Armani Exchange, H&M, and Calvin Klein. In 2016, she appeared in the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, broadening her international recognition. Further Success In 2019, Barbara made history by becoming the first Hungarian Victoria’s Secret Angel. She also ventured into acting, appearing in Hercules (2014) alongside Dwayne Johnson. Barbara Palvin Distinctive Features: - Eyes - Stare Barbara Palvin Net Worth: Barbara Palvin’s net worth is estimated at $6 million, accumulated through modeling contracts and brand ambassadorships. She has worked with nearly every top fashion house and cosmetics label globally. Barbara Palvin Body Measurements: Barbara Palvin’s physique represents the balance between natural curves and athletic elegance. Standing at 5 feet 9 inches (175 cm) and weighing 55 kilograms (121 lbs), she maintains a slim yet curvy build that redefined runway beauty standards. - Build: Slim - Height in Feet: 5 feet 9 inches - Height in Centimeters: 175 cm - Weight in Kilograms: 55 kg - Weight in Pounds: 121 lbs - Cup Size: B - Shoe Size: 9 (US) - Body Measurements: 32-24-36 inches Plastic Surgery Insights: There is no confirmed evidence suggesting Barbara Palvin has undergone plastic surgery. Her appearance has remained consistent throughout her career, and she is frequently praised for her natural beauty. Barbara Palvin Interesting Facts: - She speaks Hungarian and English fluently. - She was discovered at age 13 on the streets of Budapest. - Barbara Palvin names Kate Moss and Natalia Vodianova as her favorite models. - Her childhood hobbies were singing and football, but she ultimately chose modeling as her professional career.
