=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Young Sheldon (TV Series 2017-2024) - Karly Rothenberg as Mrs. Veazey ...]
Young Sheldon (TV Series 2017-2024) - Karly Rothenberg as Mrs. Veazey
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt6226232/characters/nm1238748

[Mrs. Veazey - Young Sheldon | TVmaze]
Character Guide for Young Sheldon's Mrs. Veazey. Includes character biography, gallery, and a complete list of episode appearances.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/characters/480136/young-sheldon-mrs-veazey

[Young Sheldon cast: All actors & characters - Dexerto]
May 23, 2024 · Young Sheldon may be over, but the legacy lives on. In all their Texan glory, here’s exactly who’s who in the Young Sheldon cast.
URL: https://www.dexerto.com/tv-movies/young-sheldon-cast-characters-2396948/

[Young Sheldon]
Dave Florek as Dr. Karl Eberland, Sheldon's doctor. Karly Rothenberg as Mrs. Janice Veazey, Dr. Hodges' secretary. Frances Conroy as Dr. Flora Douglas, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young_Sheldon

[Young Sheldon (2017) - Complete Cast]
Janice Veazey (1 eps) Jason E. Kelley Moving Guy (1 eps) Ella Anderson Erica Swanson (1 eps) Anjelika Washington Libby (1 eps) Paul Yen Le Nguyen (1 eps) Carlease Burke Mrs. Ebner (1 eps) Jayne Taini Phyllis (1 eps) Dennis Cockrum Mr. Stover (1 eps) Duane R. Shepard Sr. Mr. Bustifer (1 eps) Carol Mansell Mrs. Krawcynski (1 eps) Chelsea Rae ...
URL: https://flickfocus.com/shows/young-sheldon/cast


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Young Sheldon (TV Series 2017-2024) - Karly Rothenberg as Mrs. Veazey ...] ---
It looks like we don't have any photos or quotes yet. Be the first to contribute.Add a photo.Add a quote.


--- [Mrs. Veazey - Young Sheldon | TVmaze] ---
We don't have a biography for Mrs. Veazey yet. Hang in there, or go ahead and contribute one. Appearances Young Sheldon Guest cast, played by Karly Rothenberg - Episode 1x06: A Patch, a Modem, and a Zantac® (Nov 30, 2017)


--- [Young Sheldon cast: All actors & characters - Dexerto] ---
Young Sheldon may be over, but the legacy lives on. In all their Texan glory, here’s exactly who’s who in the Young Sheldon cast. We hate to be the bearers of bad news, but it’s true — the Young Sheldon Season 7 ending has now been and gone. Though there isn’t going to be a Young Sheldon Season 8, existing episodes are ready and waiting to be binged all over again. We’re still yet to find out if Sheldon Cooper’s education will be picked up again in the future, with the hopes of the Sheldonverse resting on the shoulders of spinoff Georgie and Mandy’s First Marriage. But before all that, let’s enjoy what once was. Our trips back to Medford are only just starting, so here’s everything you need to know about the Young Sheldon cast. Sheldon Cooper & Adult Sheldon: Iain Armitage & Jim Parsons Young Sheldon is considered a child prodigy, showing a lot of the traits he had in the original Big Bang sitcom. At the same time, Sheldon is still a little boy at heart, needing his spaghetti and hot dogs cut up by Mary, and some typically tough love from Meemaw. In Season 7, Sheldon headed to Germany in the hopes of strengthening his college application, where he quickly learns that he isn’t as smart as he originally thought. Back at home, he starts his journey to Caltech. While responsible for the voiceover in the entire show, Parsons eventually makes a physical cameo in Season 7 Episode 14. Iain Armitage has appeared in Big Little Shots, Big Little Lies, Scoob! and PAW Patrol: The Movie. Meanwhile, Jim Parsons can be seen in Hidden Figures, Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile, and The Boys In The Band. Related Mary Cooper: Zoe Perry Mary Cooper is Sheldon’s mom and a devout Southern Baptist. She is definitely a Mama Bear and has a soft spot for Sheldon due to everything that makes him different. This now extends to her granddaughter Cece, frequently butting heads with her other grandma Audrey when it comes to her upbringing. She was at the center of an affair scandal in Season 7, with Sheldon growing up believing that his dad cheated during her teenage years. After their trip to Germany, it was revealed that the other woman was actually Mary dressed up in a wig and dirndl she’d brought back for George. Zoe Perry also shows up in Roseanne, Law & Order: Criminal Intent, Scandal, Grey’s Anatomy, and NCIS. George Cooper Sr.: Lance Barber George is Sheldon’s dad, though there is quite a bit of mis-continuity between this spin-off and The Big Bang Theory. George isn’t how we are initially told he is, as he is a hard-working family man rather than an abusive deadbeat. If beer and brisket are there, so is George. However, Season 7 isn’t the easiest time for George. While the series started off strong, his death closed out the final episodes before the end. George dies suddenly of a heart attack during Season 7 Episode 12. Lance Barber appears in The Comeback, It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, Black-ish, Brooklyn Nine-Nine, and Gilmore Girls. He also played bully Jimmy Speckerman in The Big Bang Theory. Missy Cooper: Raegan Revord Missy Cooper is Sheldon’s twin sister. While she’s not academically inclined like Sheldon is, she is very emotionally intelligent, and thankfully still has a great relationship with her brother. After a rebellious streak in Season 6, it falls on Missy to take care of the Coopers after the tornado hits Medford. When Mary arrives back home, Missy falls back into old patterns, experiencing a breakup with her first proper boyfriend. Raegan Revord has had minor appearances in Modern Family, Wish Upon, and Alexa & Katie. George “Georgie” Cooper Jr.: Montana Jordan Georgie is Sheldon’s older brother, and while not as scientifically gifted as Sheldon, Georgie has great entrepreneurial skills and became a father in Season 6. Georgie and Mandy eventually get married in Season 7, though the fall of the gambling room means that the couple are instantly falling on hard times. This sets the pair up for their Young Sheldon sequel, which begins filming in July. Montana Jordan appears in The Legacy of Whitetail Deer Hunter and The Big Bang Theory. Connie Tucker/Meemaw: Annie Potts Connie, AKA Meemaw, is Mary’s mother and Sheldon’s grandmother. Annie is fun and sarcastic and tends to butt heads with George. She’s had plenty of male interest over the course of the show, previously dating Dr. John Sturgis in earlier seasons. She’s currently settled down with Missy’s former baseball coach Dale Ballard. In Season 7, Connie took on the law single-handedly after losing her house and belongings in the tornado. She was then put on house arrest when her illegal gambling room was found out. Annie Potts can be seen in the Ghostbusters franchise, along with Pretty in Pink, and the Toy Story franchise. Mandy McAllister: Emily Osment Mandy McAllister is a recent main addition to the cast, as she dates Georgie, despite him being significantly younger, and is now the mother to his child. Starting their love story back in Season 5, Mandy is now married to Georgie and is ready to settle into family life. Mandy also reunited with her parents Audrey and Jim in Season 7, with things set to stay that way for the sequel, Georgie and Mandy’s First Marriage. Emily Osment is best known for her roles in Hannah Montana, Spy Kids, and Young & Hungry. Professor John Sturgis: Wallace Shawn Professor John Sturgis is Sheldon’s first mentor and teacher, who introduced him to theoretical physics, while also dating his grandmother. John suffered a mental breakdown in Season 3, leading him and Connie to break up in later episodes. However, the two remained friends, with John remaining an integral part of Sheldon’s life. Wallace Shawn is best known for his appearances in Clueless, The Princess Bride, Toy Story, The Cosby Show, and Gossip Girl. Dr. Gant Linkletter: Ed Begley Jr. Dr. Grant Linkletter is Sheldon’s newest mentor in college, and also the rival of Dr. Linkletter at East Texas Tech. Not only are the pair academics enemies, but Linkletter also — unsuccessfully — went after Connie while John was dating her. Linkletter was still occasionally seen in Season 7 when Sheldon is at college. Ed Begley Jr. can be seen in St. Elsewhere, Blue Collar, An Officer and a Gentleman, Batman Forever, and Pineapple Express. Pastor Jeff: Matt Hobby Pastor Jeff works alongside Mary at the local church. He also challenges a lot of Sheldon’s scientific thoughts through logic exercises. Now on his second wife, Jeff is no stranger to a bit of controversy himself — all of which Mary is privy to. Jeff also eventually moves in next door to the Coopers. Matt Hobby also stars in Boardwalk Empire, The Grinder, and Hart of Dixie. Billy Sparks: Wyatt McClure Billy is Sheldon’s neighbor who has an unrequited crush on Missy. Known for being happy without being the brightest crayon in the box, Billy is always around to play with the Cooper kids — leading to Billy doing beer runs in Season 7. Easily led astray, he’s frequently a worry for his parents. Wyatt McClure appears in I See You and Psychos. Brenda Sparks: Melissa Peterman Brenda Sparks is Billy’s mother and Mary’s next-door rival. For most of Young Sheldon’s run, it was assumed that George had an affair with Brenda after some questionable behavior with George. However, this was later proved to be false. While she didn’t have a scene with her former sitcom co-star Reba McEntire, Brenda once got in a fight with Meemaw that was so bad, she had clumps of her hair taken out. Melissa Peterman can be seen in Reba, Bet On Your Baby, and The Singing Bee. Herschel Sparks: Billy Gardell Herschel, Billy’s father, is an acquaintance of George’s as they both get nagged by their wives. However, Herschel later splits from Brenda and moves away, having not been seen since Season 2. However, Herschel is the person who both discovers and nurtures Georgie’s mechanic talents. Billy Gardell is best known for his roles in Mike and Molly and Bob Hearts Abishola. Tam Nguyen: Ryan Phuong Tam is Sheldon’s first best friend at school. Spending each lunch break eating in the library, they do most of everything together in the first four seasons — from sleepovers to being fascinated with the same girl. While it’s revealed in The Big Bang Theory that they had a falling out after Tam didn’t go to Pasadena with Sheldon, they later patched things up when Tam visited Sheldon in CalTech. Tam also reappeared in Season 7 Episode 12. Ryan Phuong has appeared in Shameless and The Tundermans. Other notable characters in Young Sheldon This Young Sheldon cast list would be as long as the time span of the whole universe if we kept going, so for now here’s a list of the other notable characters and who plays them: - Dale Ballard: Craig T. Nelson – Meemaw’s boyfriend after Dr Sturgis. - June: Reba McEntire – June is Dale’s ex-wife. - Paige Swanson: McKenna Grace – Another child prodigy that Sheldon eventually develops a crush on. - Linda Swanson: Andrea Anders – Linda is Paige’s mom. - Assistant Coach Wilkins: Doc Farrow – Sheldon’s P.E. teacher and one of George’s closest friends. - Victoria MacElroy: Valerie Mahaffey – Sheldon’s homeroom and English teacher. - Hubert Givens: Brian Stepanek – Sheldon’s science teacher at Medford High. - Mr. Gene Lundy: Jason Alexander – Medford High School’s drama teacher. - Evelyn Ingram: Daniel Pinnock – Sheldon’s math teacher at Medford High. - Tom Petersen: Rex Linn – Tom Peterson is Medford High’s Principal. - Peg: Nancy Linehan Charles – Peg is Pastor Jeff’s secretary that Mary works with - Marcus: London Cheshire – Marcus is Missy’s first boyfriend. - Glenn: Chris Wylde – Glen is the owner of the King Kong Comics book store. - Sheryl Hutchins: Sarah Baker – Sheryl is Medford High’s librarian. - Veronica: Isabel May – Georgie’s first crush. - Officer Robin: Mary Grill – Officer Robin is Pastor Jeff’s second wife. - Jana: Ava Allen – Jana is Georgie’s relationship after Veronica. - Pastor Rob: Dan Byrd – Youth Pastor Rob teaches the kids during Sunday school. - Audrey McAllister: Rachel Bay Jones – Mandy’s mom and grandmother to her and Georgie’s child. - Jim McAllister: Will Sasso – Mandy’s dad and grandfather to her and Georgie’s baby. All 14 episodes of Young Sheldon Season 7 are now available to stream on Paramount Plus. You can check out everything we know about Young Sheldon’s filming locations, as well as why the Young Sheldon finale wasn’t even about George or Sheldon at all, and other binge-worthy TV shows to add to your list. If you’re done with the Young Sheldon cast, you can also check out all the best new TV shows coming out this month.


--- [Young Sheldon] ---
Young Sheldon is an American sitcom television series created by Chuck Lorre and Steven Molaro that aired on CBS from September 25, 2017, to May 16, 2024. A spin-off and prequel to The Big Bang Theory, the series is set from the late 1980s to the mid-1990s and follows the childhood of Sheldon Cooper, a gifted young prodigy growing up with his family in Medford, Texas. The show stars Iain Armitage as Sheldon, alongside Zoe Perry, Lance Barber, Montana Jordan, Raegan Revord, and Annie Potts. Jim Parsons, who portrayed the adult Sheldon Cooper on The Big Bang Theory, serves as the series' narrator and an executive producer.
Development of the prequel began in November 2016, based on an idea Parsons shared with The Big Bang Theory producers. By March 2017, Armitage and Perry were cast, and CBS ordered the series. Young Sheldon premiered as a special preview on September 25, 2017, and was picked up for a full season that began airing on November 2, 2017. In November 2023, CBS announced that the series would conclude after its seventh season. The one-hour series finale aired on May 16, 2024. The series received positive reviews from critics.
In January 2024, it was announced that a spin-off series focused on Georgie Cooper and Mandy McAllister was in development. By March 2024, CBS had greenlit the series, titled Georgie & Mandy's First Marriage, which premiered on October 17, 2024.


--- [Young Sheldon (2017) - Complete Cast] ---
No content
