=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Granite State (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia]
" Granite State " is the fifteenth and the penultimate episode of the fifth season of the American television crime drama series Breaking Bad. Directed and written by executive producer Peter Gould, it aired on AMC in the United States and Canada on September 22, 2013. The episode's plot serves as a continuation of the previous episode, "Ozymandias", and mainly follows Walter White (Bryan ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite_State_(Breaking_Bad)

[Granite State | Breaking Bad Wiki | Fandom]
"Granite State" is the fifteenth and penultimate episode of the fifth season of Breaking Bad, and the sixty-first and penultimate episode of the series altogether. The disappearer's minivan picks up a passenger and drives to a vacuum repair shop. When the disappearer, a man named Ed, parks inside the rear garage, Saul steps out. Ed takes a photo of Saul and starts working on his new Nebraska ...
URL: https://breakingbad.fandom.com/wiki/Granite_State

[Breaking Bad S5 E15: "Granite State" Recap - TV Tropes]
Sep 22, 2013 · The Bus Came Back: Elliot and Gretchen Schwartz, returning for the first time since Season 2 note Season 1 in Elliot's case . Carmen, last seen firing Walt, also makes a reappearance. Butt-Monkey: Played for Drama. After all the bad stuff that's already happened to Jesse, this episode makes things even worse when Todd shoots Andrea just so Jesse will keep cooking for them. Call-Back: Saul ...
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/BreakingBadS5E15GraniteState

[Breaking Bad - Episode Guide - TVmaze]
Jan 20, 2008 · The Whites throw a party to thank family and friends for their support through Walt's trying time, but it turns ugly when he and Hank get into a bitter argument; later, a pent-up and fed-up Walt tries to occupy his time with home-improvement projects.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/shows/169/breaking-bad/episodeguide

[Breaking Bad Season 5: Episode 14: The phone call HD CLIP]
What’s happening in this Breaking Bad clip? Walt (Bryan Cranston from Godzilla) is on the phone with Skyler (Anna Gunn), and berates her, falsely claiming he built up his drug business alone ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6P7XzoTJRa8


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Granite State (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia] ---
"Granite State" is the fifteenth and the penultimate episode of the fifth season of the American television crime drama series Breaking Bad. Directed and written by executive producer Peter Gould, it aired on AMC in the United States and Canada on September 22, 2013. The episode's plot serves as a continuation of the previous episode, "Ozymandias", and mainly follows Walter White (Bryan Cranston) as he evades arrest by fleeing to New Hampshire.
The episode was the second one that Gould directed after "Problem Dog" in the show's fourth season. While writing the episode, the team was troubled on how to continue the story of the series, primarily the character progression of Walt. They ultimately decided to have Walt slowly become depressed throughout the course of the episode. The scenes set in New Hampshire were filmed in Crawford Notch. "Granite State" also marked the show's final appearance of character Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk) before the premiere of Better Call Saul later in 2015.
"Granite State" received positive reviews from critics, who mainly focused on the storytelling and the phone-call scene between Walter White and his son. It was watched by over 6.4 million viewers, setting a new record for the show. It was nominated for several awards, with Robert Forster's guest performance earning him the Saturn Award for Best Guest Starring Role on Television.


--- [Granite State | Breaking Bad Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Granite State" is the fifteenth and penultimate episode of the fifth season of Breaking Bad, and the sixty-first and penultimate episode of the series altogether. Summary[] [] The disappearer's minivan picks up a passenger and drives to a vacuum repair shop. When the disappearer, a man named Ed, parks inside the rear garage, Saul steps out. Ed takes a photo of Saul and starts working on his new Nebraska ID, saying that he will have to wait at least two days to be transported out of state. In the meantime, Saul will be staying in a downstairs bunker with another client. Knowing the person is Walt, Saul asks how he is doing. Ed shows him a monitor screen with live footage from the bunker, where an impatient and angry Walt paces the room. Act I[] SAC Ramey and two DEA agents drive a distraught Marie home; on the way, he promises that they will find Hank and Gomez. They arrive at the Schrader residence only to see that somebody has broken in. Ramey orders the drive to call it in and drive Marie to safety while he and another agent investigate the premises. As they enter, the notice the place has been ransacked. The tripod used to record Jesse's video confession lies damaged on the floor. It is revealed that Jack's gang broke into the house to steal the confession video. The video is being played for Jack at the compound. As he laughs at Jesse's emotional state, Kenny, who has already seen the video, fast-forwards to a section he believes Jack should see: Jesse's disclosure that Todd murdered Drew Sharp. Furious, Jack grabs his gun and storms out to kill Jesse for speaking about Todd to the feds. Todd tries to stop him, telling his uncle that he would like Jesse's help for a few more cooks. Jack retorts that the cooks don't matter given the millions they now possess, but Todd responds that they are making millions off the meth business and that, while appreciative of the money they already have, he would like to remain in the business to generate further millions. Jack then laughs and claims that the reason Todd wants to keep selling meth is because he is attracted to Lydia, and teases his nephew that he can find a much better woman than Lydia. When Todd remains silent, Jack relents and agrees to spare Jesse's life for the time being. Meanwhile, in his cage, Jesse looks at the photo of Andrea and Brock, which he stole from the meth lab. Attached to the photo is a paperclip, which he uses to pick the lock on his handcuffs. In Ed's bunker, Walt asks Saul for a list of mercenaries, hitmen and/or assassins, announcing that he will kill Jack and his gang for killing Hank and stealing his money. Saul suggests that Walt forego revenge, and notifies him that Skyler will be prosecuted in Walt's absence. Walt mentions the call he made exonerating Skyler, but Saul replies that while it may play well for a jury, she would still be in the legal crosshairs. Instead, Saul suggests that since Walt only has a short time left to live, he should surrender and ensure that all blame lies solely on him in order to protect Skyler, adding that with both of their names and faces being publicized, Skyler will have a hard time finding employment, and that the government has frozen their bank accounts. Walt mutters that money isn't an issue, indicating his multi-million dollar barrel, but Saul brings up that delivering the money to his family won't be easy, reminding him that Mike's attempts to leave money for his granddaughter resulted in the money being seized twice. Ed then enters the room and announces that it's time for Saul to leave, but Walt interrupts, insisting that Saul will be coming with him. Saul refuses, citing that he is a civilian now who, if lucky, would be managing a Cinnabon in Omaha. Walt tries to intimidate Saul into compliance like he did before, but is unable to finish when he suffers a coughing fit. No longer afraid of Walt, Saul informs him that their partnership is over and leaves. Act II[] Skyler meets with a U.S. Attorney and members of the DEA, including Ramey, who press her for information on Walt's location in exchange for leniency. However, Skyler is unable to agree to the deal as she truly has no idea where Walt is. That night, the White residence is watched by the Albuquerque Police Department, who have maintained a constant surveillance on the house in the hopes of catching Walt. Skyler, who is in the living room, smokes a cigarette as she looks out the window and spots their cruiser. She then hears Holly cry and goes to tend to her, only to be startled by three masked men, one of whom covers Skyler's mouth from behind. Todd, who is one of the masked men, asks her if they're home alone, to which she nods, and then asks her if she'll scream if they let go of her mouth, and she indicates she will not. Her mouth uncovered, she tells them that Walt Jr. is at his friend's house for the week and begs for them not to harm her baby, but Todd tells her that they won't unless she gives them reason to. Todd asks her whether she's spoken to the authorities about Walt's criminal associates, including a "black-haired lady" that Skyler met previously at the car wash. When Skyler indicates that she has never spoken of her nor will she ever, Todd is satisfied. Upon receiving confirmation that she will not say anything to the police officers outside, Todd and the other two masked men leave through the window. The next day, Todd waits at café when Lydia appears, inquiring about the meeting with Skyler. Lydia is not happy that Skyler was left alive, as she is paranoid of leaving any loose ends that could implicate her, although Todd responds that Skyler is just a mother looking out for the safety and welfare of her children and that he doesn't believe Skyler would rat out Lydia. Still perturbed, Lydia tells Todd that their meth partnership is over; before she can leave, Todd mentions that he has 50 pounds of meth with a purity level of 92% that also have the signature blue color. A stunned Lydia inquires as to whether they have Walt working for them, to which Todd reveals that Jesse is. Lydia is apprehensive of the working arrangement as Jesse can also implicate her, but Todd assures her that Jesse is confined to the compound and will not be speaking to anyone. Meanwhile, Walt is transported out of New Mexico to New Hampshire inside a hidden compartment in a propane truck. Arriving in the middle of a snowy, forested area, Ed shows Walt his new home, a small cabin in the New Hampshire wilderness with no telephone, internet, television service or cell signal, and a generator that can power the freezer and the television, which has a DVD player. Ed says he will visit on a monthly basis for grocery runs in exchange for a hefty fee and offers to bring newspapers as it'll be the only way Walt can keep up with what's going on in the outside world. While there is a small town miles away at the bottom of the mountain, Ed further explains that Walt will inevitably be caught if he leaves the property, as his face is all over the news. Ed also makes it clear that he won't return again if he finds out Walt has left the property. After he leaves, Walt stuffs his jacket pockets with bundles of cash and prepares to depart into town. He opens the front gate but stops and looks at the vast wilderness before him. Overcome with a bout of coughing, he tells himself that he'll embark on the journey tomorrow and returns to the cabin, where he lights a fire in the wood stove to warm himself up. Back at Jack's compound, Jesse uses the paperclip to unlock the handcuffs and tries to reach the cage bars above his head, using his folded mattress and a bucket, but struggles due to the tarp placed above the cage. Hearing Todd approaching, he quickly puts the cuffs back on and pretends to be resting. Despite the other members stating that Todd is spoiling Jesse, Todd brings Jesse two buckets of Ben & Jerry's ice cream to celebrate a 96% pure batch. Todd stays to watch Jesse eat for a while before telling him that they will cook again in the morning. Deciding to take advantage of Todd's good mood, Jesse asks if Todd can remove the tarp so he can look at the stars, and Todd relents. After he leaves, Jesse unlocks the handcuffs again and uses the bucket to jump at the cage bars above him. Managing to grasp one, he feels around for the lock and is able to undo the latch. Pulling himself up, Jesse exits the cage and dashes through the compound, unknowingly running past a security camera. As he attempts to climb a fence, he is surrounded by Jack and his gang. Wanting to be freed from his enslavement, Jesse tells them to just kill him and declares that he will not be cooking for them again. Later that night, Todd pays a visit to Andrea's house, telling her that he is a friend of Jesse's. When she undoes the front lock, he tells her that Jesse is waiting in a truck outside for her. Jesse, who is bound and gagged in the truck, propped against the rear passenger window, bangs on the glass with his head and screams, although his cries are muffled. Andrea steps onto the porch to get a look at the truck, while Todd, who is now behind her, pulls out a silenced pistol and points it to the back of her head. He tells her that for what it's worth, his actions aren't personal; before she can respond, Todd shoots Andrea through the back of the head, killing her. Jesse screams inside the truck as he watches Andrea's body slump onto the porch, and Jack, who is in the passenger seat, tells him to shut up or they'll go after Brock as well. Act III[] Months later, Walt greets Ed as he arrives for another supply drop. Now sporting a beard and full head of hair, he picks a new pair of glasses from a sampler case and reads through newspapers from Albuquerque. Ed informs him that Skyler has reverted to her maiden name and is working as a taxi dispatcher to make ends meet while she waits for her trial; while she retains custody of the children, they no longer live at 308 Negra Arroyo Lane, which was seized by the bank and had to be cordoned off as kids kept breaking in. Walt has been paying Ed to procure a homemade chemotherapy rig, injecting Walt with an IV drip. Ed then prepares to leave, prompting Walt to beg for him to stay, as he is lonely. Ed responds that he has a long trip back, but Walt offers him $10,000 to stay for two hours; Ed agrees to stay for one hour for $10,000. As Ed prepares a game of seven-card stud, Walt states that one day Ed would return only to find him dead from his cancer. He then motions to his multi-million dollar cash barrel and asks Ed whether he would deliver that barrel to his family after his death or keep it for himself; Ed merely asks Walt if he trusts him to do so. Ed eventually leaves and Walt falls asleep. Some time later, Walt wakes up to the sound of his wedding ring falling off his finger, which has thinned considerably. After fashioning it into a necklace, Walt notices a box that Ed had brought and fills it with $100,000 from the barrel. In the morning, he finally leaves the property and walks to the nearest town. Act IV[] At J. P. Wynne High School, Walt Jr., now having reverted back to using the name Flynn, is called into Principal Carmen's office, where he is told that Marie wishes to speak with him. However, the woman claiming to be Marie is a barmaid from the New Hampshire mountain town, whom Walt has paid to make the call. Taking over the phone, Walt begs for Flynn not to hang up. Walt speaks with his son for a while and then asks if his friend Louis still lives at the same address; when Flynn confirms this, Walt says that he will mail a package containing $100,000 to Louis, with the understanding that Louis, whom he trusts, will secretly give the money to Flynn who can then give it to Skyler. Flynn becomes infuriated that Walt is trying to send money and yells at him for killing Hank and screams that he wishes Walt would just die already before hanging up. Feeling defeated, Walt calls the Albuquerque DEA Field Office and asks to speak with the agent in charge of the Walter White investigation; when asked who is calling, he replies with "Walter White." He then leaves the phone off the hook so that his location can be traced. Waiting for the authorities to arrive so he can surrender, Walt orders a drink and sits at the bar when he notices Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz on the television. The pair are being interviewed by Charlie Rose, who asks them whether their grant of $28 million towards drug rehab facilities in the American southwest is a ploy to distance themselves from the fact that one of their co-founders was a meth kingpin. Elliott however claims that Walt's contribution to Gray Matter Technologies was practically non-existent, with Gretchen chiming in that all Walt did was coin the name "Gray Matter" before he left the company. Gretchen then adds that she considers Walter White to be dead, as the Heisenberg person he became is not someone they knew of. Hearing the Schwartzes downplay his contribution to Gray Matter infuriates Walt, who glares at the television. Shortly after, the sheriff's department arrives at the bar with several officers armed and ready to arrest Walt. However, Walt has left, leaving his unfinished whisky, and a $20 bill left to cover it, on the counter. Official Photos[] Trivia[] - The title of this episode, "Granite State", is a nickname for New Hampshire, where Walt relocates to in this episode. - This episode was originally titled as "Permanent Vacation". It was later renamed to "Granite State". - His relocation to the state was revealed in the season premiere when his fake ID claimed he was from New Hampshire. ("Live Free or Die") - This is the only episode in the series that contains the full version of the "Breaking Bad Theme" scored by Dave Porter outside of the credits. It plays in the final scene, while the police are raiding the bar in New Hampshire. - This episode was the series' most-watched episode at the time of its airing with 6.58 million U.S. viewers, but was later passed by the very next episode, which had 10.28 million.[1] - Vince Gilligan originally planned to direct this episode along with "Felina" but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. - During the production for the episode, parts of the footage of Walt's phone call to Walt Jr. had to be filmed again because the footage from the first time was accidentally crushed by a 737 after the footage fell out of a truck. - Walt regains his hair in the main timeline for the first time since Season 1's "Crazy Handful of Nothin'", although he was seen with hair in a few flashbacks. - Walt and Skyler technically still have the same last names, as Skyler's birth surname is Lambert. - In Ed's bunker, Saul says "If I'm lucky, a month from now, best case scenario, I'm managing a Cinnabon in Omaha." This was intended to be a throwaway line, as at the time of this episode's production, there were no plans to make Better Call Saul. When the series was greenlit, the decision was made to have Saul (Gene Takavic) actually work at a Cinnabon in Omaha. - This is Saul's last appearance on Breaking Bad, although Bob Odenkirk is still credited as main cast member for the series finale. - This episode confirms that Todd's surname is Alquist and that Jack's is Welker. - Andrea is the second romantic interest of Jesse's to die in the series, the first being Jane. - Walt packs his money in an Ensure box to "ensure" his family's financial security after he dies. - Walt Jr.'s last words to his father in this episode are similar to his words to him in "Cancer Man", "Why don't you just die already?". - Several characters, who were close acquaintances of Walter before he became Heisenberg, make their return in this episode: - Elliott Schwartz, last seen in the Season 1 episode "Gray Matter". - Gretchen Schwartz, last seen in the Season 2 episode "Peekaboo". - Carmen Molina, last seen in the Season 3 episode "Green Light". - The bar and cabin in New Hampshire are set in the fictional Crawford County in the White Mountain region. However, there is a well-known mountain pass called "Crawford Notch" that crosses the White Mountains, to which this name probably refers. - In the Breaking Bad Insider Podcast, Peter Gould told a story about the bar scene. A Police Tech Adviser asked them "What are you gonna do with the cactus?" The production did not realize that there was a cactus right in front of the bar, so they ended up painting it white. - The hockey game was NCAA D1 game shown on the bar TV was from February 13, 1998. Wisconsin played Denver at Wisconsin and won 7-4 but only after pulling off one of the biggest upsets in college hockey history[2] . - PBS talk show host Charlie Rose makes a cameo appearance as himself in this episode. This was revealed by him during his August 8, 2013 episode that featured Anna Gunn, Vince Gilligan, Aaron Paul and Bryan Cranston as guests. - In the interview, Charlie Rose references a New York Times column written by Andrew Ross Sorkin. The column was actually written and an excerpt appears on the New York Times website. Production[] Credits[] Starring | Guest Starring | Co-Starring | | Filming Locations[] - The outdoor New Hampshire scenes were filmed in the Sandia Mountains of New Mexico. The tavern scenes were filmed in the Manzano Mountains. The tavern itself is the former Ponderosa Eatery and Saloon which is on NM Hwy 337 just north of the intersection of NM Hwy 217 and the unincorporated village of Yrissari, NM. [3] Featured Music[] - "Sign of the Gypsy Queen" by April Wine (Jack and crew watch Jesse's confession video) - "Salvador" by Philip E. Baker (when Todd meets Lydia at The Grove) - "Girl from Sao Paolo" by Vince Constantino (when Walt meets Todd and Lydia at The Grove) - "The Final Hat" by Dave Porter (when Walt puts on his hat and heads towards his gate for the first time and over the end credits) - "Dimple Pinch Neat" by Dave Porter (as Gretchen and Elliott talk about Walt and the police raid the bar) Memorable Quotes[] - Saul: "Hey, I'm a civilian. I'm not your lawyer anymore. I'm nobody's lawyer. The fun's over. From here on out, I'm Mr. Low Profile. Just another douche bag with a job and three pairs of Dockers. If I'm lucky, three months from now, best-case scenario, I'm managing a cinnabon in Omaha." - Walter: "You're still part of this. Whether you like it or not." - Saul: "I'm sorry. I don't think so." - Walter: "You remember what I told you? It's not over. Unti... [Walter erupts into a severe coughing fit and collapses onto the bed]" - Saul: "It's over." - ―Saul and Walter in Ed's bunker. - US Attorney: "Do you understand what's happening here?" - Skyler: "Yes. I understand. I understand I'm in terrible trouble. I understand that you will use everything in your power against me and my children unless... unless I give you Walt. But the truth is, I can't give you what you want. I don't know where he is." - ―US Attorney pushing Skyler for information about Walter. - "I just think we work together good. We make a good team. I think it's kind of mutually good." - ―Todd to Lydia after raising the purity of his meth. - Walter: "One of these days when you come up here, I’ll be dead. My money over there–What happens to it then? What if I ask you to give it to my family? Would you do it?" - Ed: "If I said yes would you believe me?" - ―Walter and Ed in the cabin in New Hampshire. - "Will you just–just leave us alone. You asshole! Why are you still alive? Why don’t you just–just die already? Just–just die." - ―Walter Jr's final words to his father. - Charlie Rose: "Is Walter White still out there?" - Gretchen: "No, he's not." - Charlie Rose: "You sound very sure." - Gretchen: "I am. I can't speak to this Heisenberg that people refer to, but whatever... whatever he became, the... the kind, sweet brilliant man we once knew, long ago, is gone." - ―Charlie Rose interviewing Gretchen about Walter. Notes[] - ↑ TV by the Numbers - ↑ Ryan Lambert tweet - ↑ Inside Breaking Bad: Granite State


--- [Breaking Bad S5 E15: "Granite State" Recap - TV Tropes] ---
Granite State Air date: September 22, 2013 After contacting his fabled "disappearer", Saul is brought to a shop owned by the vacuum repair- and salesman, Ed Galbraith, who is the guy providing him a new identity. Saul admits to be a bit surprised to see that Ed is actually running a vacuum emporium as his civilian identity, obviously finding that the "vacuum" thing being more than just a euphemism to be somewhat pleasantly quaint. He then sees that Ed is already working on plans to send him to Nebraska, something he is notably less enthused about. Ed informs Saul that he will have to lay low for a couple of days in his safehouse in the shop's basement, while he figures out how to move him out of the state unnoticed, and that he will have a bunk mate in there. Someone who is a "special" and complicated case. None other than Walter White, aka Heisenberg. As they await their move in the basement room, Walt is notably frustrated and caged-in by his situation. He is hell-bent on revenge on the Aryan Brotherhood gang for killing Hank and stealing his money, and he asks Saul for help. Saul says there's nothing he can do anymore, and suggests the best thing Walt could do now is give himself up to the police, so that Skyler and his family doesn't get the blame for his crimes. Walt attempts to coerce Saul into coming with him, but Saul refuses, saying that he is no longer a lawyer and that if he's lucky, he'll be "managing a Cinnabon in Omaha". Walt tries to threaten him further but is subdued by a coughing fit. Done, Saul quietly bids Walt farewell and leaves for his new life in Nebraska. Jack's gang, meanwhile, have been keeping themselves busy; they break into the Schrader house and recover Jesse's confession tape, and after watching it Jack prepares to execute Jesse for being a rat, but Todd asks him to reconsider, telling him that they can use Jesse to cook more meth for them. Jack is puzzled by the request at first, pointing out that they already have more money than they will ever need after stealing Walt's millions, but he then realizes that Todd wants to impress Lydia, whom he is now infatuated with, and agrees to keep Jesse alive. Shortly after, the gang break into Walt's house and threaten Skyler not to reveal Lydia's involvement, to which a shaken Skyler complies. Lydia visits Todd and wants to end their operation because of all the heat surrounding it, but she reconsiders after he reveals that the meth composition is now at 92% purity thanks to Jesse. At Jack's base of operations, Jesse uses a paper clip to unlock his chains and tries to escape, but he is captured. As he is cornered by Jack's goons, Jesse angrily and defiantly tells them that he refuses to do any more of their dirty work and demands that they just get it over with and kill him there and then, because nothing they can do to him will ever convince him otherwise. The gang punishes Jesse by taking him to Andrea's house and forces him to watch as Todd kills her with a shot to the head. They then threaten to kill Brock as well, if he ever tries something like that again. Meanwhile, Walt, who's now the prime target of a nationwide manhunt, is relocated by Ed to a more secure hideout, which is a remote cabin in the middle of a forest in New Hampshire. Ed tells Walt to lay low for the time being and that he'll return occasionally with whatever amenities Walt requests, but warns him that if he tries to contact the outside world in any way, he will get caught and that if he finds out Walt has made any such attempt he will not be returning for any reason. Walt is still tempted from the first day to walk out and give himself up, but ultimately he doesn't. Instead, he resolves to keep hiding in the cabin, becoming more and more depressed and progressively weaker from his cancer. Several months later, Ed arrives on his monthly visit to bring Walt food and supplies, including a chemotherapy dose which Walt requested, and gives him news about the outside world; namely that Skyler has returned to using her maiden name, that she works as a part-time taxi dispatcher to earn money, and that she and Walter Jr. have left the old house, and that Walt is still being hunted by the authorities. Ed is about to leave, when the lonely Walt, desperate for human contact and clearly worn down after the months of complete isolation, offers him an extra $10,000 to keep him company for another hour; Ed accepts and the two play cards. During the game, Walt points out to Ed that he will inevitably succumb to his cancer sooner or later, and asks him if he could arrange for his family to receive his barrel of leftover money whenever that happens, but Ed very honestly answers that he simply can't guarantee that he won't just keep the money for himself. Alone again, Walt tries to sleep, but is awoken by the sound of his wedding ring hitting the floor, having fallen from a finger that it no longer fits. He fashions a makeshift necklace for it with a piece of string. The next morning, he takes $100,000 of his leftover money and stuffs it into a cardboard box Ed left behind, before he finally decides to step outside of the cabin area and enters a nearby local bar. He calls his son, who has now legally changed his first name from Walter Jr. to Flynn, and tries to arrange for the box to be sent to his family. Flynn initially seems cautiously receptive to what his father has to say, but upon hearing that all he wants to do is send money, he immediately gets upset and refuses to accept anything from him, saying that he wants nothing to do with him because he killed Uncle Hank and finishes the conversation by bitterly asking "Why don't you just die?!" Shaken by Flynn's rejection, Walt finally takes Saul's advice and calls the DEA to surrender himself, leaving the line open so they can trace the call to where he is. Waiting for the cops to arrive, Walt orders himself a shot of whiskey and watches the bar's TV. In doing so, he happens to spot Gretchen and Elliott being interviewed by Charlie Rose on the Heisenberg case. Elliott claims that Walt's only major contribution to Gray Matter was inspiring the name of the company, while Gretchen says that whether or not Heisenberg is still out there, the man they knew as Walter White is now dead. Rose also reveals that Heisenberg's signature blue meth is still in circulation. Walt's anger visibly rises as the interview progresses, and when it is over, he has changed his mind about surrendering. The police arrive and ransack the bar, but Walt is gone, his unfinished whiskey and a $20 bill the only evidence of him having been there. This episode provides examples of: - Alas, Poor Villain: - As much of a tyrannical asshole Walter has become, you couldn't help but pity him when he shells out ten thousand dollars just so he can pretend to have someone to talk to for an hour. And when he desperately begs his son "don't let this all be for nothing". - For all he's done, Saul is pitiable because his life as he knew it and everything he worked to build is gone for good.Saul: Hey, I'm a civilian. [voice cracks] I'm not your lawyer anymore. I'm nobody's lawyer! The fun's over! From here on out, I'm Mr. Low-Profile. Just another douchebag with a job and three pairs of Dockers. If I'm lucky, month from now, best case scenario, I'm managing a Cinnabon in Omaha. - All for Nothing: Subverted. Walt eventually can't take being cooped up in the cabin anymore and attempts to deliver some of the money to Flynn. However, Flynn is still enraged beyond measure at his father for getting Hank killed, and refuses to accept the money while telling Walt to just kill himself already. With his last desperate attempt to salvage something from his struggles ending in yet another failure and hated by everyone he's ever loved, Walt finally gives in to despair and calls the police to turn himself in... but then he sees Gretchen and Elliot on television disparaging him and decides it can't end like this. - All There in the Manual: The name of the identity provider is never mentioned within the episode. Various press materials reference him as The Extractor or The Disappearer. His name, Ed Galbraith, is found in the plot synopsis for this episode on AMC's official Breaking Bad website. - And Your Little Dog, Too!: Not only does Jack make Todd shoot Andrea and force Jesse to watch it happen, he also makes a point to tell Jesse that if he ever tries to escape again, "...there is still the kid." - Apologetic Attacker: After showing Andrea that Jesse is in his truck, Todd lets Andrea get a closer look before saying "Just so you know, this isn't personal." and shooting her in the back of the head. - Bait-and-Switch: After Jesse's failed escape attempt which leads to Andrea's death, the episode cuts back to Walt reaching for the gate, something he considered when he first arrived at his new cabin. It turns out he is only there to open the gate for Ed during one of his supply runs. Walt's newly-grown hair and beard, which indicates a significant time jump from his previous scene, is carefully concealed by his parka. - Beard of Sorrow: During his stay in New Hampshire, Walt's appearance becomes increasingly disheveled, and he grows out a full, shaggy beard as he lives in isolation and grows ill from his chemo treatments. - Beardness Protection Program: Walt likely avoided being recognized the moment he stepped out of his New Hampshire cabin because by the time he got around to leaving, he looked sickly and weak from cancer, with a long beard and messy, unkept hair in sharp contrast to his menacing skinhead with a goatee appearance the public is familiar with. - Berserk Button: Gretchen and Elliott unknowingly slam down hard on Walt's by minimizing his contribution to Gray Matter Technologies to "just the name". - Blunt "No": Walt, clearly beginning to chafe a bit already at Ed refusing him any kind of contact with the outside world and telling him stay in the cabin, demands to know exactly what there is Ed can do if he simply walks out the gate once Ed's gone. Ed simply replies: "Nothing." He then points out that even if he could, Ed doesn't need to do anything, since Walt is so notorious and wanted by police that he'd be quickly spotted and arrested if he showed his face in society. - Broken Masquerade: By this point, the whole world has found out who Heisenberg really is. - Brutal Honesty: - Saul pulls no punches describing the legal nightmare in store for Skyler and his family if Walt doesn't turn himself in. - Ed is also blunt when Walt, clearly chafing a bit at being ordered about, demands to know exactly Ed can or will do to keep him on the reservation. Ed admits that there’s nothing he can do to keep Walt there, but it does not matter in the least since Walt is so notorious and easily recognized that even in New Hampshire he will not be able to go far without being identified and arrested. - Later, when Walt asks Ed if he's willing to help get some of his drug money to his family if and when he succumbs to his cancer:Ed: If I said "yes", would you believe me? - The Bus Came Back: - Elliot and Gretchen Schwartz, returning for the first time since Season 2 note . - Carmen, last seen firing Walt, also makes a reappearance. - Butt-Monkey: Played for Drama. After all the bad stuff that's already happened to Jesse, this episode makes things even worse when Todd shoots Andrea just so Jesse will keep cooking for them. - Call-Back: - Saul expresses surprise over the fact that the fabled Disappearer really does run a vacuum shop, much in the same way he expressed surprise over discovering that Walt really was a chemistry teacher. - Walt attempts the same intimidation tactic he used on Saul to bully him into remaining in his employment. This time, he can only say "You remember what I told you? It's not over until-" before a coughing fit takes the wind out of his sails, giving Saul the opportunity to get away from him with a parting "It's over." - Jesse once again tries to scale a barbed-wire fence in desperation. It doesn't go nearly as well this time. - Call-Forward: Saul did end up managing a Cinnabon in Omaha. - The Cameo: Robert Forster plays Ed, the guy who fixes Walt with a new identity and a hideout. And there's Charlie Rose as himself, interviewing Gretchen and Elliott. At the time the episode aired in 2013, Rose had his own talk show on PBS and was also on CBS This Morning. - Chekhov's Skill: At first glance, the compound being surrounded by a high fence topped with razor wire might be daunting. But Jesse has overcome that obstacle before, and he barely hesitates to go for it. - Coincidental Broadcast: Walt finally emerges from the mountain cabin where he's been hiding out and goes to a bar. What pops up on the television mounted above the bar? Naturally, a PBS interview with Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz, Walt's old partners and co-founders of Gray Matter. - Consummate Professional: Ed the Disappearer, who calmly approaches his job with nothing less than absolute professionalism, detail-oriented focus, politeness and matter-of-fact honesty. His services are clearly worth the vast sums that are paid for them, as he's able to extract Walter White — literally Public Enemy No. 1 at the time — to a remote location far from New Mexico and keep him concealed to the point where the only reason the authorities even discover his location is because Walt, in a moment of broken resignation, finally cracks and reveals it to them. The one chink in his stoic approach is a flash of clear irritation when Saul brings up the subject of Walt, who is still in his basement safehouse, heavily suggesting that Walt has clearly not been easy to deal with in turn. - Continuity Nod: During his "reality check" speech to Walt, Saul brings up how, as smart as Mike was, whenever he tried to get his money to his granddaughter, it just ended up seized by the Feds. - Contrived Coincidence: Walter is in hiding in New Hampshire. After he tries to reconnect with his son and is harshly told off, he calls the DEA and settles in to let them trace the call to the bar where he is drinking and arrest him. Before they find him, the bartender randomly starts channel flipping, which allows Walter to see an interview where his ex- and old business partner badmouth him on TV and minimize his contribution. This angers Walt so much he chooses to escape and return to New Mexico for his vengeance. - Darkest Hour: Walter is the most wanted man in America, he's forced to go into hiding in the wilderness of New Hampshire, Jesse is taken captive by the Neo-Nazis, Andrea is killed by Todd right in front of Jesse's eyes, Hank is dead, and Walt's family is completely broken. Walter is about to turn himself in when he sees Gretchen and Elliot on TV downplaying his contributions to Gray Matter, and the insult to his ego is enough to make him change his mind and head back to New Mexico to make things right. - Despair Event Horizon: - Walt comes close to this when Flynn refuses to accept any money from him. He is finally ready to surrender to the police, but seeing the interview of Gretchen and Elliott makes him change his mind. - Andrea's death is this for Jesse, not that he hadn't already crossed it to begin with. - Didn't Think This Through: - The point of Saul's entire rant to Walter on how he has failed to realize the full impact his actions have now. By being made out to be an innocent victim, Skyler has nothing to trade with for the Feds and thus they'll go after her to get at Walt. Walt may have the money but there's no way to get any of it to his family without the Feds grabbing it. Now that it's out that she was married to a murderous drug lord, Skyler will probably never find a stable job and that affects their kids. By the look on Walt's face during Saul's talk, it's clear that he never considered this himself and realizing how bad he's screwed things up. - Jesse's escape plan essentially amounted to "Get out of the hole, then run like hell", with nothing planned for exactly how to escape from a compound with surveillance cameras and a barb-wired fence around the perimeter. - Walt's expression when Gretchen and Elliott downplay his involvement with Gray Matter, saying his biggest contribution was coming up with the company's name, shows he never considered that his exposure as a drug lord would lead to them distancing themselves from him as much as possible. - Disowned Parent: Walter Jr. has legally changed his first name to Flynn in the interim months after his father's disappearance and blows up at Walt when he calls him at school to offer to send him money, telling him to just up and die already before angrily hanging up. - "Eureka!" Moment: Walt realizes he could coerce the Schwartzes into 'donating' his money to them as an act of charity due to Flynn's father being a drug lord and as an act of sympathy. - Even Evil Has Loved Ones: Jack would be happy to retire but stays in the business so he can help his nephew impress Lydia. - Even Evil Has Standards: Subverted. Initially it looks like Uncle Jack is disturbed by the idea that Todd so effortlessly killed a child. It turns out he was actually furious that Jesse ratted his nephew out personally. - Every Man Has His Price: - Subverted. Walt finds out that even though he has millions of dollars, it won't help him in his revenge against Uncle Jack's gang, nor can he give it to his family. - Played razor straight with Ed, though, who negotiates Walt down from two hours to one hour of companionship in exchange for ten thousand dollars. - Failed a Spot Check: Jesse's escape plan is pretty abysmal. He not only fails to spot the blatant cameras looming down on him, but he ends up barrelling through the compound to make a frenzied attempt to climb a barbed-wire fence. All things considered, it's a very Jesse-like escape plan. - Fate Worse than Death: Jesse being enslaved, tortured, starved, and caged like an abused zoo animal by the Neo-Nazis for months. When they capture him in a failed escape attempt, he tries to provoke them into killing him, because he's decided it's preferable to going back. They do one worse, killing Andrea as punishment and threatening to get Brock next if Jesse causes trouble a second time. - Forced to Watch: The Neo-Nazis force Jesse to watch Andrea getting killed as a punishment for trying to escape. - Get It Over With: When he is captured after his escape attempt, Jesse dares the neo-Nazis to just kill him there and then, because he refuses to cook any more for them and nothing they can threaten to do to him will change his mind. Not only is he not killed, the neo-Nazis even decide to show him that they still have ways left with which they break his spirit even further... - Gilligan Cut: Played for Drama. After Jesse is caught trying to escape by the neo-Nazis, he begs them to just kill him now because there's no way he'll do one more cook for him. Cut to Todd walking up to Andrea's door. - He's Back!: Walt is ready to give himself up after hearing Flynn tell him to "just die". As he waits for the police to descend on his location, he catches an interview with Gretchen and Elliot on television, where they distance themselves from him by minimizing his contributions to Gray Matter and insulting his character. His ego provoked once more, Walt decides he can't go out like this and leaves to finish what he started before the police arrive. - His Quirk Lives On: Walt sometimes imitates the habits of people he has killed, or whose death he feels responsible for. Walt initially drank whiskey neat, but began taking it on the rocks after killing Mike, who drank it the same way. In this episode we see him ordering his whiskey neat again, the same way Hank used to do. - Hope Spot: Jesse nearly escapes the Aryan compound, after fooling Todd, not noticing the camera on the boundary. During his moment of escape, he is captured again. Todd and Jack drive Jesse to Andrea's house, where Todd lures her out on pretext of Jesse's information. When Andrea is in clear view of Jesse, he panics as he tries desperately to save her. Todd shoots her quickly, with Jack warning Jesse another such attempt will lead to Brock's death. Jesse's breakdown really seals the deal. - Honor Among Thieves: When Walt asks Ed if he could somehow arrange to bring his leftover money to his family once he dies from his cancer, Ed courteously rebuffs him by implying that he cannot be trusted with transporting the money as — from his pragmatic point of view — it would by all means just be easier and simpler for him to keep it all to himself. - How the Mighty Have Fallen: In just a few short months, Walt has gone from being The Dreaded drug kingpin of New Mexico to a malnourished, ragged-looking man hiding out alone in a decrepit cabin in New Hampshire, with only Ed Galbraith willing to talk or spend time with him (for a price). - I Die Free: Subverted. After getting caught trying to escape the neo-Nazi compound, Jesse yells at the gang to just strike him down where he stands because he refuses to cook one more batch for them. They kill Andrea instead while Jesse is Forced to Watch. - I Will Punish Your Friend for Your Failure: - After his failed escape attempt from the Neo-Nazi compound, Jack and Todd drive Jesse to Andrea's house and murder her in front of him as punishment, with the warning that Brock will be killed next if he tries to escape again. - Saul warns Walt that if the Feds can't arrest him, they'll use every legal means at their disposal to ruin Skyler's life as retaliation for the deaths of Gomez and Hank. - Implied Death Threat: “You really don’t want us coming back.” - Inherently Funny Words: Word of God states that this is why the only DVD Walt has in the cabin is Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium. When writing the episode, somebody threw out the name as a suggestion, and Vince Gilligan put it in the show because he thought it sounded funny. - Intimidation Failure: While it is certainly not played for laughs, Walt tries to threaten Saul into working for him before they leave with their new identities but is interrupted by a long coughing fit. This prompts Saul to leave as soon as he can before Walt can finish. - Ironic Echo: Flynn repeats his "Why don't you just die already?" from the first season. Back then, it was out of despair at his dad seemingly giving up. Here, it's out of complete disgust. He's also unknowingly echoing Marie's more recent line. - Jerkass Has a Point: After dressing down how Walt's actions to exonerate Skyler have made it worse, Saul outright says that if he really cares about his family, he will give himself up to the Feds to spare them the suffering they are about to endure. Walt doesn't. - Jump Scare: When Skyler sees Todd and two of his neo-Nazi friends in Holly's room, accompanied by a Scare Chord. - Kick the Dog: Jack orders Todd to kill Andrea in front of Jesse. Then tells Jesse he better shut up and stop crying, because the kid is next. - Know When to Fold 'Em: Saul suggests that the best thing Walt can do for his family is give himself up, as it'll spare them the DEA's attention and he'll be a celebrity felon for his remaining time. Walt doesn't listen. Saul, for his part, readily leaves to live out a new life under a new identity, far away from the madness he and Walt were caught up in. - Last-Second Chance: Implied, given that Flynn at least was willing to hear out his father's last call to him instead of immediately yelling "You killed Uncle Hank!!" or hanging up before Walt could begin speaking. Walt apologizing or properly explaining Hank's fate could have softened things somewhat between them. All Walt does is offer money which makes Flynn snap. - Leno Device: As proof of Heisenberg's nationwide notoriety, the case is being discussed on Charlie Rose. - Meaningful Echo: Walt and Saul's last scene together is a replay of the scene in the season premiere where Walt tells Saul they're done when he says they're done - only this time Walt begins coughing before he can finish speaking and, no longer intimidated, Saul says "It's over," before exiting the scene and the series. - Meaningful Rename: Skyler has gone back to her maiden name "Lambert", while Walter Jr. has legally changed his first name to "Flynn", symbolizing the fact that neither of them wish to be associated with Walter White any longer. Interestingly, Walt has also chosen "Mr. Lambert" as his new alias while living undercover, meaning that he and Skyler are still sharing the same last name. - Men Don't Cry: While watching Jesse's confession, Jack and his gang spent most of their time calling him a wimp for crying. - Money Is Not Power: Walt still has millions, but none of it can really help him with any of his problems. - Money to Burn: Played for Drama. While Walt is hiding in his remote cabin over winter, he burns some of his money for extra warmth, because at this point there's nothing else he can really do with it, as it's seemingly impossible for him to get it to his family now that he's an internationally wanted man. - Nice Job Breaking It, Hero!: For a given value of "hero", considering all the morally questionable things Saul has done (both in this series and, as will be revealed, in its prequel). But while he's clearly not happy to learn that he'll be stuck in town in a secret safehouse under Ed's workshop for at least a couple of days before he can be disappeared, Saul bites his lip and refrains from further comment when Ed (politely and professionally, but firmly) points out that the main reason for this is because he's had pictures of his face plastered on billboards, buses and benches all across town, making him incredibly recogniseable — and thus incredibly difficult to suddenly disappear and create a new identity for. - Not Afraid of You Anymore: When Walt tries to intimidate Saul into sticking with him, echoing his "We're done when I say we're done" declaration from the season premiere, he goes into a coughing fit that takes all the wind out of his sails. Saul sees Walt for the man he is: weak, desperate, and divested of any power he once had. With that, he simply tells Walt "It's over" before taking his leave. - Nothing Personal: Todd says this to Andrea before he kills her. - OOC Is Serious Business: Flynn White, who had previously expressed nothing but pride and admiration for his father for much of the series, angrily screams at Walter when he begs to take his money, and outright tells him that he wishes he was dead. The fact that his name is legally Flynn now instead of just a nickname further indicates Walter's son has no love for him anymore. - Off the Grid: While most of Ed's clients only have to get a change of identity and are still able to participate in society, Walt is only allotted a small wooden cabin up in snowing mountains. In addition, Ed cuts him off from Internet, cable TV, telephones and even orders him not to go to the small town nearby to even eat. This is entirely justified; unlike many of Ed's other clients, Walt has become one of the most notorious criminals in recent memory and is the subject of a major (inter)national manhunt, and there are limits to even Ed's powers; Walt will need to remain off the grid for a long time while the heat on him dies down. - Pet the Dog: - Saul's final bit of legal advice for Walt is for him to turn himself in to save Skyler from prosecution. - Todd of all people talks Lydia out of killing Skyler, partly out of respect for Walt and partly because he can tell that Skyler has no interest in ratting out anyone and just wants to take care of her children. - Please, Don't Leave Me: A less heavy example. After living in isolation for a while, Walt is willing to pay Ed a small fortune just to stick around a little longer. - Police Are Useless: Todd and some members of his gang are able to sneak in and out of the White residence to threaten Skyler into silence despite it being monitored by the police. - Put on a Bus: Saul goes off to live under a new identity and that's the last we see of him in this show. - "The Reason You Suck" Speech: Flynn to Walt, when Walt tries to send him money; and rather appropriately, this winds up being the last conversation they had:Flynn: You killed Uncle Hank! YOU KILLED HIM! What you did to Mom, you asshole! You killed Uncle Hank- Just shut up! Just shut up! YOU KILLED UNCLE HANK! YOU KILLED HIM! What you did- just shut up! SHUT UP! Will you just- just leave us alone, you asshole! Why are you still alive?! Why don't you just- just die already?! JUST DIE! - Rule of Symbolism: - Walt loses so much weight in isolation due to his advancing cancer that his wedding ring no longer fits on his finger. It's an extremely poignant visual metaphor showing how his relationship with his family has disappeared. - Walt uses an Ensure box to pack his money, intending to "ensure" his family's financial safety after he dies. - She Knows Too Much: Lydia wants Skyler dead because the two met at the car wash and she fears implication in the Heisenberg case. Todd manages to talk her out of it. - Shoo Out the Clowns: This is possibly the bleakest and most depressing episode in the entire series, and begins with the witty and charming Plucky Comic Relief character Saul Goodman cutting ties with Walt for good and being Put on a Bus. - Surprisingly Realistic Outcome: - Walt's attempt to get Skyler out of trouble with the law may have been well-intentioned, but his conversation with Saul at the beginning of the episode painfully illustrates to him that he didn't think out the consequences as well as he thought. Painting Skyler as a blameless victim who just went along with Walt's plan may make her look good to a jury, but in the meantime, she has nothing to offer the DEA, who really want to make someone pay for the deaths of two of their agents and are almost certainly going to go after Skyler to get at Walt. Not only that, but the news that Skyler was married to and assisting a known drug lord is going to make it nearly impossible for her to get a new job, limiting her ability to provide for her children, and Walt has no way to get his own money to them because the government is watching them all and would just immediately seize the money. - Also discussed when Walt, clearly chafing at being told to stay put by Ed, demands to know precisely what he will do to keep him in the cabin. Ed bluntly replies that there's nothing he could do, given that he's going to be 44000 miles away... but it wouldn't matter, since Walt is so notorious that he'd barely make it five minutes in public without being spotted and arrested, only able to leave the cabin and contact his son without immediately being arrested because his appearance changed drastically over the six months he was stuck there. Even if Walt somehow dodged the cops, the headlines of "Walter White spotted in New Hampshire" would almost certainly be on national news and reach Ed, who has no qualms with leaving Walt to fend for himself in such an event. - Stalker with a Crush: Uncle Jack figures out the reason Todd wants to keep on cooking meth — even though the gang is now richer than they could have ever imagined — is because he has a crush on Lydia and wants to impress her. - Take That!: The film chosen as the absolute antithesis of what Walt would want as his only entertainment material? Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium. "Two copies!"* However, an interview later clarified the movie was picked solely due to its silly-sounding title and Vince Gilligan had never even seen the movie. - That Man Is Dead: Gretchen says that whether or not Walt is dead, the kind man she and Elliott knew is certainly gone, with only Heisenberg remaining if Walt is still alive. - Theme Music Power-Up: When Walt is at his Darkest Hour and having a last drink at a bar before surrendering to the police, but happens to watch an interview on the bar's TV with his old business partners, Gretchen and Elliott, who manage to seriously push his main Berserk Button by attacking his Pride, as they downplay his contributions to the Gray Matter company. As Walt's fury grows as he watches the interview, which also includes mention that Blue Sky meth is still in circulation meaning that Jesse is still alive and cooking his formula, he changes his mind about surrendering himself and the show's main theme song kicks in for the first and only time during an episode, resulting in a "power-up" that lasts Walt until the very end of the finale. - Un-person: - It's the fear of becoming this that motivates Walt out of his Despair Event Horizon and to make his final moves, fitting with the season's tagline, "Remember My Name!" - Saul is this, in a sense; he's not Saul Goodman anymore. Even his Jimmy McGill, Attorney at Law days are far behind him. He's just plain old Gene Takavic now. - Weight Loss Horror: Walt has lost so much weight from his cancer that his wedding ring no longer fits on his finger, so he wears it on a necklace. - Wham Episode: Walt and Saul both disappear using the identity-eraser, with Saul fleeing to Nebraska and Walt to New Hampshire, where he takes the name Mr. Lambert. Walt's plan to absolve Skyler from any culpability has failed, leaving her to face trial, and she is threatened by Todd and Jack's men to not mention Lydia to the police. Jack has Todd kill Andrea to punish Jesse for trying to escape, and threatens to kill Brock too if he tries again. Walt makes one last call to Walt Jr. (whose name was legally changed to Flynn) at a local bar and, barely holding it together, tells him he wants to send $100,000; Flynn responds with a scathing speech, prompting Walt to decide to turn himself in to the DEA. But, seeing Elliot and Gretchen Schwartz announcing on TV that Walt had nothing to contribute to Gray Matter Industries (plus talking bad about him in the process), he decides to leave the bar (avoiding the police), going back to Albuquerque to set things right. - Wham Shot: Walt calls the DEA to give himself up and settles down to have a last drink before being captured, only to see his former Grey Matter business partners talking on television about him. The police raid the bar he called from, the final shot being his still full glass left alone on the counter. - What a Senseless Waste of Human Life: Andrea's death. Like Uncle Jack says early in the episode, the Nazis became literal millionaires after robbing Walt in To'hajiilee, meaning they don't even need to sell crank for cash anymore. Todd only keeps Jesse alive and prisoner and stays in the meth business because he wants to keep seeing Lydia, who he has a crush on but clearly does not share his feelings. In short, Todd murders an innocent woman and orphans her 6-year-old son... because he wants to get laid. - Would Hurt a Child: - Lydia sends Todd and the Nazis to Skyler's house to threaten her, Flynn (who's 17) and Holly (who's 1). - After Jesse tearfully witnesses Andrea's murder, Jack threatens to kill Brock too if he stops cooking blue meth.


--- [Breaking Bad - Episode Guide - TVmaze] ---
Season 1 Episode: 1x01 | Airdate: Jan 20, 2008 A high-school chemistry teacher (Bryan Cranston) is diagnosed with a deadly cancer, so he puts his expertise to use and teams with an ex-student (Aaron Paul) to manufacture top-grade crystal meth in hopes of providing for his family after he's gone. Episode: 1x02 | Airdate: Jan 27, 2008 After the accident in the desert, Walter and Jesse need to dispose of the unfortunate mess in their rolling lab of an RV, and Skyler begins to suspect that Walter and Jesse are involved in some mysterious goings-on. Episode: 1x03 | Airdate: Feb 10, 2008 Walter and Jesse fight about the latter's drug use, so he leaves, forcing Walter to deal with their captive, Krazy-8 (Max Arciniega); Hank uses scared-straight tactics with Walter Jr. when his aunt suspects he's smoking pot; Skyler is furious when Walter stays away from home. Episode: 1x04 | Airdate: Feb 17, 2008 Walter announces to the family that he has cancer; the DEA believes there is a new big-time player in the Albuquerque drug business; a depressed Walter takes his anger out on a worthy recipient; Jesse pays a surprise visit to his parents' house. Episode: 1x05 | Airdate: Feb 24, 2008 At a birthday party for a successful former science colleague, Walter is offered a job; Jesse tries gaining legitimate employment but winds up back cooking meth, and an inferior kind at that; Skyler assembles the family for an intervention to get Walter to agree to chemotherapy, but he's concerned about quality-of-life issues and their financial difficulties. Episode: 1x06 | Airdate: Mar 2, 2008 Walter, in the throes of his chemotherapy treatment and needing money more than ever, agrees to cook more crystal meth with Jesse; Skinny Pete hooks Jesse up with an important new contact, while the DEA intensifies its investigation of Albuquerque's new drug kingpin. Episode: 1x07 | Airdate: Mar 9, 2008 Walter and Jesse do business with a new partner-in-crime, but immediately run into "production problems," which necessitates a nearly impossible mission to knock off a chemical-supply house. Meanwhile, Marie throws a baby shower for Skyler and presents her with an unusual gift that shows a different side of the aunt-to-be. Season 2 Episode: 2x01 | Airdate: Mar 8, 2009 Season 2 kicks off with Walt and Jesse once again bearing witness to Tuco's incendiary disposition, which leads them to the conclusion that it's time to put an end to their business dealings with him. But the question is how. Meanwhile, Hank serves as a go-between for estranged sisters Skyler and Marie. Episode: 2x02 | Airdate: Mar 15, 2009 Trying to dissociate themselves from the volatile Tuco takes a bad turn when Walt and Jesse get trapped with the dealer, and Skyler, worried about her missing husband, receives comfort from her sister and brother-in-law. Hank, meanwhile, pays a business call on Jesse's mother. Episode: 2x03 | Airdate: Mar 22, 2009 Walt and Jesse attempt to cover their tracks and distance themselves from Tuco, but they soon find that business is taking a hit along with their financial situation. Meanwhile, Hank and his DEA investigation into the meth ring get a major break that just might put Walt and Jesse in their crosshairs. Episode: 2x04 | Airdate: Mar 29, 2009 Despite Walt's attempt to reconnect with the family, a suspicious Skyler keeps him at arm's length and worries about what he's been up to while he's been away from the house; Jesse finds himself on the streets once again and struggles to improve his lot in life. Episode: 2x05 | Airdate: Apr 5, 2009 Hank deals with some lingering aftereffects from his confrontation with Tuco; bills are piling up at the White house and tensions are beginning to run high; Jesse organizes a crew of dealers to take their product to the streets. Episode: 2x06 | Airdate: Apr 12, 2009 Walt returns to teaching at the high school; when Skinny Pete gets taken advantage of and ripped off, Jesse steps in, but bites off more than he can chew; Skyler takes the opportunity to show her appreciation for Gretchen's kindness in picking up the tab for Walt's treatments. Episode: 2x07 | Airdate: Apr 19, 2009 Walt and Jesse contemplate an expansion of their business; Hank experiences a hassle in El Paso as he tries to adapt to his new coworkers; Skyler's new job opportunity leads to her reconnecting with an ex-colleague; and Jesse interacts with his new landlady. Episode: 2x08 | Airdate: Apr 26, 2009 Badger's brush with the law leads Walt and Jesse to call in a shady lawyer; the DEA believes it has a line on the mysterious and elusive "Heisenberg"; Hank's stint in El Paso is up and he returns to Albuquerque, but his mental makeup causes concern for Marie. Episode: 2x09 | Airdate: May 3, 2009 After undergoing a PET-CAT scan and fearing the worst, Walt takes lawyer Saul's advice and hunkers down for a marathon session of cooking product; Jesse's romance with his landlady is heating up, but must cool off quickly when he and Walt head for the desert to take care of business. Episode: 2x10 | Airdate: May 10, 2009 The Whites throw a party to thank family and friends for their support through Walt's trying time, but it turns ugly when he and Hank get into a bitter argument; later, a pent-up and fed-up Walt tries to occupy his time with home-improvement projects. Worried about Walt's physical and emotional states, Skyler confides in her boss; Jane keeps her relationship with Jesse a secret from her father. Episode: 2x11 | Airdate: May 17, 2009 Saul suggests a new business partner for Walt and Jesse after they begin to lose their dealers to some unforeseen circumstances. At work, Skyler confronts Ted after she uncovers some unnerving information; and Jesse opens up to Jane about what he does for a living, with disastrous results. Episode: 2x12 | Airdate: May 24, 2009 A new addition joins the White family as Walter Jr. attempts to help out his struggling family by launching a new Web site. Elsewhere, Jesse's addiction worsens and his relationship with Jane begins to negatively impact Walt and her father. Episode: 2x13 | Airdate: May 31, 2009 In the Season 2 finale, Skyler's frustration with Walt's secrecy boils over; Jesse is dealt a devastating blow that leads him down a path of self-destruction, and only Walt is willing to help him; and a grief-stricken Donald experiences more tragedy. Season 3 Episode: 3x01 | Airdate: Mar 21, 2010 In the third-season premiere, Walt faces a new threat on a new front and deals with an increasingly angry Skyler, who must consider what to do next with her life and the kids'. Meanwhile, Jesse comes face-to-face with some startling self-revelations. Episode: 3x02 | Airdate: Mar 28, 2010 Despite ever-increasing tension between Walt and Skyler, he pulls out all the stops in an effort to reconcile with the family. Elsewhere, Saul is instrumental in getting Jesse involved in a most-unusual investment opportunity. Episode: 3x03 | Airdate: Apr 4, 2010 Walt disregards Skyler's demands and the rift between them widens dramatically, pushing her to take even more drastic steps. Meanwhile, continuing anxiety and panic attacks plague Hank, which leads to a serious situation at the Drug Enforcement Agency. Episode: 3x04 | Airdate: Apr 11, 2010 Skyler's latest bit of bad news proves to be a blow to Walt, and his loss of control endangers his job and his business relationships with Saul and Jesse. Hank goes full-speed ahead into the agency's investigation of the blue-meth case, while Jesse cooks up a new plan. Episode: 3x05 | Airdate: Apr 18, 2010 When Gus intensifies efforts to persuade Walt to get back in the meth business, Jesse takes exception and a rift appears in his and Walt's personal relationship. Meanwhile, Skyler's new relationship isn't turning out as she'd like; and Marie tells Skyler about her concerns for the increasingly troubled Hank and his well-being. Episode: 3x06 | Airdate: Apr 25, 2010 Walt moves into new digs and a distraught Walter Jr. demands to know just where his parents' relationship stands. Meanwhile, Hank's investigation is beginning to hit too close to home for Walt, causing serious concerns for him and Jesse. Episode: 3x07 | Airdate: May 2, 2010 Hank's behavior becomes increasingly more unpredictable and volatile, which leads to a confrontation with Jesse and problems at the DEA; Skyler wants Walt to make a deal; and Gus' decisions result in some serious consequences. Episode: 3x08 | Airdate: May 9, 2010 The White and Schrader families anxiously await word on Hank's condition. Meanwhile, Jesse takes care of business at the lab while Walt tries to make peace with Gus, but after witnessing a terrifying flash of anger, Walt starts to fear for his and his family's lives. Episode: 3x09 | Airdate: May 16, 2010 Hank's stay in the hospital is accompanied by some daunting bills, but Skyler thinks she has a way of dealing with them. Meanwhile, some of the problems between Walt and Gus are ameliorated; and Jesse seeks more independence and grabs a profitable opportunity that presents itself. Episode: 3x10 | Airdate: May 23, 2010 When Walt becomes driven to distraction by a contaminant in the lab, he refuses to cook meth until they are able to get rid of it. Episode: 3x11 | Airdate: May 30, 2010 Skyler's increased involvement in Walt's business causes him concern; Hank's recovery is plagued by setbacks; and Jesse makes a surprising discovery as he gets more involved in his new enterprise. Episode: 3x12 | Airdate: Jun 6, 2010 Jesse ignores Walt's advice and finds himself in a dangerous situation. Fearing for Jesse's safety, Walt takes drastic measures to try to put things right. And tragedy strikes following an unexpected confrontation. Episode: 3x13 | Airdate: Jun 13, 2010 Jesse goes on the lam in the third-season finale. But Mike is right on his heels, so Walt works a deal with Gus and comes up with an unsettling plan that might help guarantee both his and Jesse's safety. Season 4 Episode: 4x01 | Airdate: Jul 17, 2011 In the Season 4 opener, Walt and Jesse are confronted by the life-threatening consequences of their actions. Meanwhile, Skyler contends with a puzzling disappearance, and Marie finds it difficult to help a recovering Hank. Episode: 4x02 | Airdate: Jul 24, 2011 Walt tries to establish a new alliance as he plots his next move. Meanwhile, Skyler urges Walt to consider a business opportunity that could keep the family safe. Episode: 4x03 | Airdate: Jul 31, 2011 Goings-on at Jesse's place start to get out of control; Skyler reluctantly turns to Saul for help; Marie settles back into an old habit; and Hank hears from an old friend who needs assistance. Episode: 4x04 | Airdate: Aug 7, 2011 The Cartel makes a power move; Skyler and Walt reveal something embarrassing to the family; and Jesse's misdeeds bring some unwanted attention. Episode: 4x05 | Airdate: Aug 14, 2011 Jesse's disappearance leaves Walt fearing the worst; Skyler has a surprising reunion; and Hank gives Det. Roberts bad news. Episode: 4x06 | Airdate: Aug 21, 2011 A shocking discovery unsettles Skyler; Walter Jr. leans on his father to make a special purchase; Mike gets surprise help from Jesse. Episode: 4x07 | Airdate: Aug 28, 2011 A frustrated Walt takes on a risky gamble; Skyler encounters problems with her latest business venture; Hank requires Walter Jr.'s services for an unusual reason. Episode: 4x08 | Airdate: Sep 4, 2011 Skyler devises a plan to cure her money woes; Hank recruits Walt to help him work out a theory, while Walt grows impatient with Jesse. Episode: 4x09 | Airdate: Sep 11, 2011 Mistakes from Skyler's past prove to be impactful to the present; Gus is spurred to action against rivals; Jesse seeks help from Walt but the results are mixed. Episode: 4x10 | Airdate: Sep 18, 2011 The family becomes gravely concerned when Walt doesn't show up for his son's 16th birthday celebration. And Jesse's lab skills are tested in Walt's absence. Episode: 4x11 | Airdate: Sep 25, 2011 Walt moves to protect his secret and Gus; Skyler is stymied in her attempt to help Ted with his financial problem. Episode: 4x12 | Airdate: Oct 2, 2011 Hank leans on Gomez to explore one final lead, as Walt scrambles to protect his family. Meanwhile, Jesse learns some unsettling news and races to share it with Walt. Episode: 4x13 | Airdate: Oct 9, 2011 The fourth season ends with Walt and Jesse squaring off against Gus. Elsewhere, Walt acquires a surprise confederate with help from Saul. Season 5 Episode: 5x01 | Airdate: Jul 15, 2012 In the series 5 premiere, Walt deals with the aftermath of the explosion, while Hank wraps up his investigation of Gus and his criminal empire. Episode: 5x02 | Airdate: Jul 22, 2012 Walt and Jesse seek out an unlikely partner for a new business venture. The DEA follows up new leads in its investigation. Episode: 5x03 | Airdate: Jul 29, 2012 Walt and Jesse put a business plan into action. Walt confesses a secret to Marie. Episode: 5x04 | Airdate: Aug 5, 2012 Walt celebrates another birthday. Skyler considers her options. An associate complicates Walt and Jesse's plan. Episode: 5x05 | Airdate: Aug 12, 2012 Walt's team must get creative to obtain the materials they need to continue their operation. Episode: 5x06 | Airdate: Aug 19, 2012 Walt, Jesse, and Mike struggle over the future of their business, as occupational hazards weigh on Jesse. Episode: 5x07 | Airdate: Aug 26, 2012 Walt takes control of business matters as Mike grapples with the consequences of his actions. Episode: 5x08 | Airdate: Sep 2, 2012 Walt ties up loose ends. Seeing the evidence of his success, he makes a startling and dangerous decision. Episode: 5x09 | Airdate: Aug 11, 2013 As Walt and Jesse adjust to life out of the business, Hank grapples with a troubling lead. Episode: 5x10 | Airdate: Aug 18, 2013 While Skyler's past catches up with her, Walt covers his tracks. Jesse continues to struggle with his guilt. Episode: 5x11 | Airdate: Aug 25, 2013 Jesse decides to make a change, while Walt and Skyler try to deal with an unexpected demand. Episode: 5x12 | Airdate: Sep 1, 2013 An unusual strategy starts to bear fruit, while plans are set in motion that could change everything. Episode: 5x13 | Airdate: Sep 8, 2013 Things heat up for Walt in unexpected ways. Episode: 5x14 | Airdate: Sep 15, 2013 Everyone copes with radically changed circumstances. Episode: 5x15 | Airdate: Sep 22, 2013 Events set in motion long ago move toward a conclusion. Episode: 5x16 | Airdate: Sep 29, 2013 The acclaimed crime drama comes to a close in the series finale. Episode: S05 Special | Airdate: Oct 11, 2019 (122 min) Fugitive Jesse Pinkman attempts to outrun his past.


--- [Breaking Bad Season 5: Episode 14: The phone call HD CLIP] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
