=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Affinity Art Gallery]
Uzo Njoku, (1996) Born in Lagos, Nigeria and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a breakout painter and determined business woman set on bridging the gap between fine art and the commercial world of design. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia in Studio Art in 2019. Surprisingly, Njoku originally registered to study Statistics at university, yet switched ...
URL: https://galleryaffinity.com/artists/uzo/index.html

[Uzo Njoku NextGen Featured Artist — ArtMuse]
Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) was born in Lagos, Nigeria and moved to the United States at the age of 7. Njoku currently lives and works in NYC. In 2019 she received her BA from the University of Virginia in Studio Art. She incorporates intricate Ankara patterns to juxtapose her figures within the composition. Additionally, Njideka Crosby, Kehinde Wiley, and David Hockney influence Njoku. For more ...
URL: https://www.artmuseny.com/uzo-njoku-nextgen-featured-artist

[Uzo Njoku Inaugural Group Exhibit — Arena Social Arts Club]
Born in Lagos, Nigeria and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a breakout painter and determined business woman set on bridging the gap between fine art and the commercial world of design. Having received her bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia in Studio Art in 2019, she is now enrolled in the MFA programme at the New York Academy of Art. Surprisingly, Njoku originally ...
URL: https://www.arenasocial.org/uzo-njoku

[Uzo Njoku - Latitudes Online]
Uzo Njoku Born in Lagos, Nigeria, and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a dynamic painter and savvy entrepreneur carving a unique niche between the worlds of fine art and commercial design. As a breakout artist, her work is characterized by vibrant colors and bold patterns that celebrate Black identity and culture.
URL: https://latitudes.online/artists/uzo_njoku

[Uzo Njoku: A Vibrant Force whose paintings and patterns bridge fine art ...]
Oct 26, 2025 · In the bustling art scene of New York City, where innovation meets tradition, Nigerian-American artist, painter, pattern maker, and product design enthusiast Uzo Njoku stands out in the world of Contemporary Art and Design. Credit : Uzo Njoku Born in 1996 in Lagos, Nigeria, she moved to the Maryland , United States at the age of 7 with her mother and sister , Uzo’s creative journey has been ...
URL: https://xtalent.ng/uzo-njoku-a-vibrant-force-whose-paintings-and-patterns-bridge-fine-art-and-design/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Affinity Art Gallery] ---
Uzo Njoku, (1996) Born in Lagos, Nigeria and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a breakout painter and determined business woman set on bridging the gap between fine art and the commercial world of design. She received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Virginia in Studio Art in 2019. Surprisingly, Njoku originally registered to study Statistics at university, yet switched majors as her artistic interests and talents became more apparent. One of Njoku’s art heroes Njideka Akunyili Crosby followed a similar path. This encouraged her to transfer courses, and she has since keenly followed Akunyili Crosby’s successful career. Njoku, however, considers herself to be coasting in her own lane, paving a path that suits her unique way of working. ... Due to a lack of funding, Njoku started making and selling prints to financially support herself whilst at college. Her early works were well received and widely collected. Almost overnight, her business came into being. Njoku is part of several collections and her exhibitions include A Space of My Own, Voltz Clarke Gallery, New York, 2020, Alone, Together and Beyond, For You Gallery, Dubai, 2020, and a solo exhibition, Apartment 26 at Harsh Collective, New York, 2023.


--- [Uzo Njoku NextGen Featured Artist — ArtMuse] ---
Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) was born in Lagos, Nigeria and moved to the United States at the age of 7. Njoku currently lives and works in NYC. In 2019 she received her BA from the University of Virginia in Studio Art. She incorporates intricate Ankara patterns to juxtapose her figures within the composition. Additionally, Njideka Crosby, Kehinde Wiley, and David Hockney influence Njoku.


--- [Uzo Njoku Inaugural Group Exhibit — Arena Social Arts Club] ---
THE NEIGHBORHOOD An Inaugural Group Exhibition by Uzo Njoku Over the past three years, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) has dedicated her artistic focus to creating structural paintings capturing the essence of various communities, collectively termed as her "Neighborhood Series." The inception of this series involved portraying row houses in Washington, DC, where Uzo brought vibrancy to her art by depicting people from displaced communities in the city. As the Neighborhood Series approaches its conclusion, Uzo seeks to extend the platform to 13 other artists. Through an open call, she invites these artists to interpret and express their own perceptions of community. This upcoming exhibition aims to transcend the conventional, transactional nature of art presentations. Uzo, functioning both as a practicing artist and a curator, endeavors to move beyond the traditional confines of public exhibitions. Her intention is to foster a more engaging and supportive environment for emerging artists at the early stages of their careers, providing not only space but also encouragement and opportunities for creative expression. ARTIST STATEMENT Artist block is not a familiar feeling to Uzo Njoku. It is also something she doesn’t allow for as her time is of the essence. Her dynamic way of working means that she switches between different materials and mediums comfortably and with intent. Each process employed informs each of her creative endeavours. When she can’t or doesn’t want to paint, she’ll tuft rugs, sew, or make patterns. Individual outcomes then reappear in the larger and more finalised artworks. Her symbols and motifs reoccur; the ideas come full circle. In this case, Njoku’s work has the familiar distinction that a cohesive brand would. Once accustomed to the artist’s signature style, one would recognise her artwork in any context. David Hockney, one of Njoku’s influences, also carries this unique distinction. His work is recognisable yet not without nuance and shifts in mood. Njoku celebrates the way Hockney’s work has developed over the course of his career, and always strives to welcome and embrace change in her practice. This includes accepting mistakes and flaws, whilst remaining open and transparent. Njoku feels strongly that art shouldn’t be limited to a canvas. With the art world’s lack of accessibility in mind, the artist challenges herself to find alternative ways in which art can enter the home or be lived with at an affordable price. A brief stint at Central St. Martins (UAL) in London taught her vigour and the importance of approaching art from a multitude of angles. It was during her time there that she saw the possibility of being both a highly regarded fine artist and a successful commercial designer. The high concentration of craft’s people in the city and at CSM itself opened her eyes to this. GALLERY HOURS ARTIST BIO Born in Lagos, Nigeria and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a breakout painter and determined business woman set on bridging the gap between fine art and the commercial world of design. Having received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Virginia in Studio Art in 2019, she is now enrolled in the MFA programme at the New York Academy of Art. Surprisingly, Njoku originally registered to study Statistics at university, yet switched majors as her artistic interests and talents became more apparent. One of Njoku’s art heroes Njideka Akunyili Crosby followed a similar path. This encouraged her to transfer courses, and she has since keenly followed Akunyili Crosby’s successful career. Njoku, however, considers herself to be coasting in her own lane, paving a path that suits her unique way of working. Due to a lack of funding, Njoku started making and selling prints to financially support herself whilst at college. Her early works were well received and widely collected. Almost overnight, her business came into being. GROUP EXHIBIT FINALIST POWERED BY


--- [Uzo Njoku - Latitudes Online] ---
Born in Lagos, Nigeria, and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a dynamic painter and savvy entrepreneur carving a unique niche between the worlds of fine art and commercial design. As a breakout artist, her work is characterized by vibrant colors and bold patterns that celebrate Black identity and culture. With a clear vision and a determined spirit, Njoku is not just creating art; she is building a brand. Through her business ventures, she seeks to dismantle the exclusivity of the art world, making her powerful and expressive imagery accessible to a wider audience through design and everyday products. Uzo Njoku represents a new generation of artists who are redefining creative careers by seamlessly merging artistic passion with entrepreneurial ambition. × Born in Lagos, Nigeria, and raised in the USA, Uzo Njoku (b. 1996) is a dynamic painter and savvy entrepreneur carving a unique niche between the worlds of fine art and commercial design. As a breakout artist, her work is characterized by vibrant colors and bold patterns that celebrate Black identity and culture. With a clear vision and a determined spirit, Njoku is not just creating art; she is building a brand. Through her business ventures, she seeks to dismantle the exclusivity of the art world, making her powerful and expressive imagery accessible to a wider audience through design and everyday products. Uzo Njoku represents a new generation of artists who are redefining creative careers by seamlessly merging artistic passion with entrepreneurial ambition.


--- [Uzo Njoku: A Vibrant Force whose paintings and patterns bridge fine art ...] ---
XTalent helps emerging designers and creatives to showcase their talent In the bustling art scene of New York City, where innovation meets tradition, Nigerian-American artist, painter, pattern maker, and product design enthusiast Uzo Njoku stands out in the world of Contemporary Art and Design. Born in 1996 in Lagos, Nigeria, she moved to the Maryland , United States at the age of 7 with her mother and sister , Uzo’s creative journey has been largely shaped by her Nigerian heritage and American upbringing. Today, at 29, Njoku is celebrated for her bold use of color, intricate patterns, and empowering depictions of Black women, blending fine art with accessible design to create pieces that radiate joy and introspection. Some of her notable works include: The Working Woman: a 24″ x 33″ art piece that depicts a woman in a vibrant, patterned setting. Neighborhoods: an ongoing series that captures the essence of Black community life through a series of paintings. Njoku is also set to debut her much-anticipated homecoming exhibition titled “An Owambe Exhibition by Uzo Njoku” , scheduled to run from November 22, 2025, to January 22, 2026 in Lagos, Nigeria #contemporaryart #africancreative #nigerianartist #uzonjoku #uzoart #xtalentng
