=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Line 5 (Kunming Metro) - Wikipedia]
Line 5 is a rapid transit line of the Kunming Metro, serving the city of Kunming, Yunnan Province, China. The line has a total length of 26.45 km (16.4 mi) and 22 stations. Phase 1 of the line was opened on 29 June 2022. Construction began in June 2016. The line is constructed by a consortium ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Line_5_(Kunming_Metro)

[Ten-year Guardian: The Operation of A New Line Brings New Impetus to ...]
On June 29, 2022, Line 5 went into operation, which marks the formation of a star-shaped metro network in Kunming. By June 2022, CASCO had participated in the construction of more than 140km of Kunming metro, contributing to the rapid development of Kunming metro network. Ten years of cultivation makes steady and sustainable development.
URL: https://www.casco.com.cn/news/detail.aspx?id=4157

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 opens for operation--Seetao]
Feb 12, 2026 · [Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 opens for operation] On June 29, Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 was officially opened for operation. The project is 26.45 kilometers long and has 22 stations, all of which are underground.
URL: https://www.seetao.com/details/167030.html

[Kunming Metro - Wikipedia]
Line 4 has cartoon mascots exclusive to the line known as the "K4 Cats" that promote ridership of the line. Line 4's color is orange. Line 5 started operation on 29 June 2022, consisting of 26.5 km of line with 22 stations running from World Horti-Expo Garden to Baofeng.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kunming_Metro


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Line 5 (Kunming Metro) - Wikipedia] ---
Line 5 is a rapid transit line of the Kunming Metro, serving the city of Kunming, Yunnan Province, China. The line has a total length of 26.45 km (16.4 mi) and 22 stations. Phase 1 of the line was opened on 29 June 2022.


--- [Ten-year Guardian: The Operation of A New Line Brings New Impetus to ...] ---
Today, Kunming Metro Line 5 officially went into operation with CASCO’s participation for its construction. The high-quality delivery of the new line brought a special gift to the 10th anniversary of Kunming Metro. The opening ceremony for the initial operation of Line 5 Kunming Metro Line 5, starting from World Horti-Expo Garden Station in the north and ending at Baofeng Railway Station in the south, is about 26.45km in length with 22 stations. After the operation, it will interchange with Line 2 and Line 4 at North Railway Station and Line 3 at Wuyi Road Station. The line connects the famous tourist attractions of Kunming such as World Horti-Expo Garden, Green Lake, Yuantong Mountain, Dianchi Lake and Kunming Dianchi Lake International Convention and Exhibition Centre, enjoying the reputation of the special train of Spring City, which is of great significance to improve the travelling of the public and enhance the brand image of the tourist city. Technology Supports Kunming Metro into the Intelligent Era Kunming Metro Line 5 adopts CASCO CBTC signaling system to protect the safe operation of trains through the whole journey. The system is initially equipped with intelligent operation and maintenance function, thus providing real-time fault diagnosis and early warning analysis to support the on-site maintenance personnel to complete daily operation and maintenance efficiently. Commissioning for the intelligent operation and maintenance system Recently, Kunming Metro Line 3 and 6 and the Intelligent Operation and Maintenance (IOM) project of the Network Center built by CASCO have also successfully passed the acceptance, and all stations will soon adopt CASCO's IOM system. So far, CASCO has made significant contribution to the 10th anniversary of the operation of Kunming Metro, accelerating the pace of Kunming Metro into the era of intelligence. On-site commissioning and trackside commissioning CASCO’s Protection Witnesses Fast Development of Kunming Metro Network On June 28, 2012, Kunming Metro Line 6 Phase I started trial operation, ushering in the "metro era" in Kunming. In the decade since then, CASCO has been involved in and witnessed many important milestones in the construction of Kunming Metro. On May 20, 2013, the southern section of Line 1 Phase I went into trial operation; on April 30, 2014, the entire Phase I of Line 1 and Line 2 were completed, realizing the north-south connection of Kunming's main urban area. On August 29, 2017, the Phase I of Line 3 and Line 6 went into operation, and the "Cross" network of Kunming metro began taking shape. On September 23, 2020, Line 6 Phase II went into operation, ushering in the era of "networked" operation of Kunming Metro. On June 29, 2022, Line 5 went into operation, which marks the formation of a star-shaped metro network in Kunming. By June 2022, CASCO had participated in the construction of more than 140km of Kunming metro, contributing to the rapid development of Kunming metro network. Ten years of cultivation makes steady and sustainable development. With the increasing improvement of the metro network in the Spring City, Kunming Metro, as an important engine to benefit people's livelihood and promote urban development, is also creating strong power for future. In the future, CASCO will continue to carry out the concept of “Fully Protected and Fully Assured", and support high-quality development of Kunming Metro. Under the guardian of CASCO's signaling system, the daily traveling of Kunming people will be safer, thus boosting the fast economic growth of the city. CASCO people on the site on the operation day


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 opens for operation--Seetao] ---
[Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 opens for operation]On June 29, Yunnan Kunming Metro Line 5 was officially opened for operation. The project is 26.45 kilometers long and has 22 stations, all of which are underground. Editor/He Yuting The Energy Bureau of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region has released the "15th Five Year Plan" for energy, which includes the construction of 12 ultra-high voltage transmission projects, including "six AC and six DC", with a total power transmission capacity of 96.7 million kilowatts. During this period, the external power transmission capacity will exceed 1 trillion kilowatt hours. The two major bases in the Kubuqi Desert, with a total investment of 127.4 billion yuan, have been approved to achieve coordinated development of desert governance and energy development through the "integrated wind solar thermal storage" model.Editor/Gao Xue The bidding candidates for the main project of the Shaanxi Coal Power Hechuan 2 × 1000MW clean coal-fired power expansion project with a total investment of 7.55 billion yuan have been announced. The subsidiary of China Energy Engineering Corporation has won the first place in both sections A and B with accurate quotations, with a difference of only a few hundred thousand yuan compared to the second place subsidiary of China Electric Power Construction Corporation. The project is located in Hechuan District, Chongqing, and adopts ultra supercritical clean coal-fired power technology. After completion, it will enhance the stability of energy supply in the Chengdu Chongqing region.Editor/Gao Xue


--- [Kunming Metro - Wikipedia] ---
Kunming Metro, or Kunming Rail Transit, is a rapid transit system in Kunming, the capital of China's Yunnan Province. The system currently consists of 6 lines with 2 extensions to existing lines under construction and 3 more lines planned, with a total track length of 164.3 kilometers.
