=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Benjamin Forstner - Wikipedia]
Forstner invented an electric motor. [3] In the early 1850s, he moved to Missouri where he fell under the influence of communal Utopian William Keil. He followed Keil to the Pacific Northwest in 1863, where they founded the colony of Aurora in Marion County, Oregon. In 1865 Forstner settled in Salem, Oregon, and the following year married Louisa Snyder. Their only child was an adopted daughter ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Forstner

[Benjamin Forstner | Military Wiki | Fandom]
Benjamin Forstner (25 March 1834 - 27 February 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant. Forstner was born in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. His successful invention of the Forstner bit, patented on September 22, 1874, was to make him a rich man. Without the lead screw (which Forstner called the "gimlet-point") and cutting lips of more conventional wood boring bits it ...
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Benjamin_Forstner

[Benjamin Forstner - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Benjamin Forstner (25 March 1834 - 27 February, 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant. Forstner was born in Beaver Co., Pennsylvania. His successful invention of the Forstner bit, also known as the "Forstner flange bit" or Webfoot auger, patented on Sept. 22, 1874 was to make him a rich man.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/3063222

[Benjamin Forstner (1834-1897) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Forstner was born in Beaver county, Pennsylvania, on March 25, 1834. He ... He also invented an electric motor. He made several trips throughout the ...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/24444523/benjamin-forstner

[Benjamin Forstner - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 2, 2024 · Benjamin Forstner (25 March 1834 - 27 February 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant. Forstner was born in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. His successful invention of the Forstner bit, patented in 1886, was to make him a rich man.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Benjamin-Forstner


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Benjamin Forstner - Wikipedia] ---
Benjamin Forstner (March 25, 1834 – February 27, 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor, and dry goods merchant best known for his Forstner bit, a drill bit which enables the creation of accurate flat-bottomed holes in wood, regardless of grain orientation.


--- [Benjamin Forstner | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
Benjamin Forstner | | |---|---| | Personal details | | | Born | Benjamin Forstner March 25, 1834 Beaver County, Pennsylvania | | Died | February 2, 1897 Salem, Oregon | (aged 62) | Occupation | gunsmith, inventor | Benjamin Forstner (25 March 1834 - 27 February 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant. Forstner was born in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. His successful invention of the Forstner bit, patented on September 22, 1874, was to make him a rich man. Without the lead screw (which Forstner called the "gimlet-point") and cutting lips of more conventional wood boring bits it would prove especially useful to gunsmiths like himself and other high-end woodworkers. The bit was unsurpassed in drilling an exceedingly smooth-sided hole with a flat bottom. It was better than the Russell Jennings twist bits for boring at an angle and not following the grain of the wood. Forstner eventually worked out licensing arrangements for the manufacture and sale of his bit by a number of companies, most notably two Connecticut firms: the Colt Firearms Company of Hartford and the Bridgeport Gun Implement Company, successors (in 1886) to the Union Metallic Cartridge Company. Even today, the Forstner bit continues to be manufactured, although it has changed to a split-ring design. Forstner also invented an electric motor.[1] In the early 1850s Benjamin Forstner moved to Missouri where he came under the influence of communal utopian William Keil of Bethel, MO. He followed Keil to the Pacific Northwest in 1863, where they founded the colony of Aurora, Marion Co. Oregon. In 1865 Forstner settled in Salem, Oregon and the following year he married Miss Louisa Snyder. Their only child was an adopted daughter, a niece of Mrs. Forstner. Forstner became established as a gunsmith. He traveled East on business often, including to the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and the 1893 Columbian Exposition where his bits won highest premiums. Through lucrative royalty payments he became a wealthy Salem citizen and property owner. Forstner retired in 1891, having by his business acumen accumulated sufficient money and property. His residence and workshop were situated on the west side of Commercial Street and later occupied by the Salem woolen mill store and E. F. Neff. He erected a large and handsome residence on his block of land near the northern end of Commercial Street. He also possessed considerable farm property across the river in Polk county, and also owned 160 acres (0.65 km2) of timber near Gates, on the upper Santiam river. Benjamin Forstner died in Salem, Oregon after a prolonged bout of flu. He was interred on 2 Mar 1897.[2] Louisa Forstner died 12 Sept 1917 aged 75 at 265 North Commercial Street, Salem and was interred in the Odd Fellows cemetery.[3] References[] - ↑ Salem Pioneer Cemetery Records - ↑ Daily Oregon Statesman - ↑ OREGON STATESMAN 13 Sept 1917 External links[] - http://www.router-bits-shaper-cutters.com/information/cfb.cfm - http://www.rootsweb.com/~ormarion/MarionObits.html - http://www.ptreeusa.com/forstner_bit_sets.htm - http://archive.oldtools.org/archive_get.phtml?message_id=115898 - http://www.open.org/pioneerc/pg16.html - http://jonzimmersantiquetools.com/tools/stanley_bits_a.jpg The original article can be found at Benjamin Forstner and the edit history here.


--- [Benjamin Forstner - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Benjamin Forstner Benjamin Forstner ( 25 March 1834 -27 February ,1897 ), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant.Forstner was born in Beaver Co., Pennsylvania . His successful invention of the Forstner bit, also known as the "Forstner flange bit" or Webfoot auger, patented on Sept. 22, 1874 was to make him a rich man. Without the lead screw (which Forstner called the "gimlet-point") and cutting lips of more conventional wood boring bits it would prove especially useful to gunsmiths like himself and other high-end woodworkers.The bit was unsurpassed in drilling an exceedingly smooth-sided hole with a flat bottom. It was better than the Russell Jennings twist bits for boring at an angle and not following the grain of the wood. Forstner eventually worked out licensing arrangements for the manufacture and sale of his bit by a number of companies, most notably two Connecticut firms: the Colt Fireams Company of Hartford and the Bridgeport Gun Implement Company, successors (in 1886) to the Union Metallic Cartridge Company. Even today, the Forstner bit continues to be manufactured, although it has changed to a split-ring design. He also invented an electric motor.In the early 1850s he moved to Missouri where he came under the influence of communal utopian William Keil of Bethel, MO. He followed Keil to the Pacific Northwest in 1863, where they founded the colony of Aurora, Marion Co. Oregon. In 1865 Forstner settled in Salem, Oregon and the following year he married Miss Louisa Snyder. Their only child was an adopted daughter, a niece of Mrs. Forstner. Forstner became established as a gunsmith. He traveled East on business often, including to the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and the 1893 Columbian Exposition where his bits won highest premiums. Through lucrative royalty payments he became a wealthy Salem citizen and property owner.Forstner retired in 1891, having by his business acumen accumulated sufficient money and property. His residence and workshop were situated on the west side of Commercial Street and later occupied by the Salem woolen mill store and E. F. Neff. He erected a large and handsome residence on his block of land near the northern end of Commercial Street. He also possessed considerable farm property across the river in Polk county, and also owned 160 acres of timber near Gates, on the upper Santiam river. Benjamin Forstner died in Salem, Oregon after a prolonged bout of flu. He was interred on 2 Mar 1897. [Daily Oregon Statesman http://www.open.org/pioneerc/pg16.html]Louisa Forstner died 12 Sept 1917 aged 75 at 265 North Commercial Street, Salem and was interred in the Odd Fellows cemetery.(OREGON STATESMAN 13 Sept 1917) External links * http://www.router-bits-shaper-cutters.com/information/cfb.cfm * http://www.rootsweb.com/~ormarion/MarionObits.html * http://www.ptreeusa.com/forstner_bit_sets.htm * http://archive.oldtools.org/archive_get.phtml?message_id=115898 * http://www.open.org/pioneerc/pg16.html * http://jonzimmersantiquetools.com/tools/stanley_bits_a.jpg Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Benjamin Forstner (1834-1897) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
gun smith by profession. married Louisa Snyder, 20 Oct 1868 OBITUARY: BENJ. FORSTNER DEAD. HE WAS A GUNSMITH IN SALEM FOR MANY YEARS. Came to Oregon in 1863 as a Member of the Aurora Colony. Benjamin Forstner, for many years a gunsmith of Salem and later engaged in the dry goods business, died at his home on North Commercial street at 2:51 p.m. yesterday. At 1 o'clock he dined with his wife and daughter, occupying the head of the table as usual. He was in excellent spirits and remarked that he felt quite well, having experienced considerable illness for a year or more by reason of a severe attack of la grippe. After dinner he engaged in a business talk with Mr. Kightlinger, a visitor, and a few minutes later was heard to complain of being slightly fatigued. He laid down, his wife attending him, and he began coughing. Suddenly and without the least warning his life became extinct. Mr. Forstner was born in Beaver county, Pennsylvania, on March 25, 1834. He remained in that state until he reached his majority and then moved to Missouri where he resided until 1863 when he joined the Kyle colony and started for Oregon via the Isthmus of Panama route. He was with the colony in the founding of the town of Aurora, in Marion county. In 1865 Mr. Forstner came to Salem and the following year he was united in wedlock with Miss Louisa Snyder, who is a sister of Mrs. John Knight. The only child is an adopted daughter, a niece of Mrs. Forstner. Mr. Forstner established himself in the gunsmith business in this city at an early day and continued to pursue that work until about eight years ago when he retired, having by considerable energy and strict economy accumulated sufficient money and property to enable him to take up an occupation less irksome. His residence and workshop were situated on the ground where his two commodious brick buildings now stand--on the west side of Commercial street and at the present occupied by the Salem woolen mill store and E. F. Neff. Last year he erected a large and handsome residence on his block of land near the northern terminus of Commercial street. He possessed considerable farm property across the river in Polk county, and also owned 160 acres of timber near Gates, on the upper Santiam river. Mr. Forstner was the inventor of the celebrated "Forstner flange bit" or Webfoot augur, which is now manufactured by the Colts company at Bridgeport, Connecticut; this company was paying him a large royalty for the right to manufacture and sell the bit. He was awarded the premium for it at the centennial expecition and World's fair of 1876 and 1893, respectively. He also invented an electric motor. He made several trips throughout the United States in the interest of his patents and was among the visitors at the two great exhibitions aforementioned. Mrs. John Bier, formerly of Salem, but now of Corvallis, is his sister. A. H. Forstner, of Salem, is his first cousin. The funeral arrangements had not been perfected up to a late hour last evening. Daily Oregon Statesman 28 Feb 1897 5:4 The funeral of Benjamin Forstner, deceased, will be held at the family residence on North Commercial street at 2 o'clock p.m. today. Friends of the family are invited to be present. Daily Oregon Statesman 2 Mar 1897 4:3 gun smith by profession. married Louisa Snyder, 20 Oct 1868 OBITUARY: BENJ. FORSTNER DEAD. HE WAS A GUNSMITH IN SALEM FOR MANY YEARS. Came to Oregon in 1863 as a Member of the Aurora Colony. Benjamin Forstner, for many years a gunsmith of Salem and later engaged in the dry goods business, died at his home on North Commercial street at 2:51 p.m. yesterday. At 1 o'clock he dined with his wife and daughter, occupying the head of the table as usual. He was in excellent spirits and remarked that he felt quite well, having experienced considerable illness for a year or more by reason of a severe attack of la grippe. After dinner he engaged in a business talk with Mr. Kightlinger, a visitor, and a few minutes later was heard to complain of being slightly fatigued. He laid down, his wife attending him, and he began coughing. Suddenly and without the least warning his life became extinct. Mr. Forstner was born in Beaver county, Pennsylvania, on March 25, 1834. He remained in that state until he reached his majority and then moved to Missouri where he resided until 1863 when he joined the Kyle colony and started for Oregon via the Isthmus of Panama route. He was with the colony in the founding of the town of Aurora, in Marion county. In 1865 Mr. Forstner came to Salem and the following year he was united in wedlock with Miss Louisa Snyder, who is a sister of Mrs. John Knight. The only child is an adopted daughter, a niece of Mrs. Forstner. Mr. Forstner established himself in the gunsmith business in this city at an early day and continued to pursue that work until about eight years ago when he retired, having by considerable energy and strict economy accumulated sufficient money and property to enable him to take up an occupation less irksome. His residence and workshop were situated on the ground where his two commodious brick buildings now stand--on the west side of Commercial street and at the present occupied by the Salem woolen mill store and E. F. Neff. Last year he erected a large and handsome residence on his block of land near the northern terminus of Commercial street. He possessed considerable farm property across the river in Polk county, and also owned 160 acres of timber near Gates, on the upper Santiam river. Mr. Forstner was the inventor of the celebrated "Forstner flange bit" or Webfoot augur, which is now manufactured by the Colts company at Bridgeport, Connecticut; this company was paying him a large royalty for the right to manufacture and sell the bit. He was awarded the premium for it at the centennial expecition and World's fair of 1876 and 1893, respectively. He also invented an electric motor. He made several trips throughout the United States in the interest of his patents and was among the visitors at the two great exhibitions aforementioned. Mrs. John Bier, formerly of Salem, but now of Corvallis, is his sister. A. H. Forstner, of Salem, is his first cousin. The funeral arrangements had not been perfected up to a late hour last evening. Daily Oregon Statesman 28 Feb 1897 5:4 The funeral of Benjamin Forstner, deceased, will be held at the family residence on North Commercial street at 2 o'clock p.m. today. Friends of the family are invited to be present. Daily Oregon Statesman 2 Mar 1897 4:3 Bio source: Salem Pioneer Cemetery Website Inscription Benjamin Forstner Died Feb. 27, 1897 Aged 63 years 11 mos 4 da.


--- [Benjamin Forstner - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Occupation gunsmith, inventor Name Benjamin Forstner | Role Inventor | | Full Name Benjamin Forstner Died February 2, 1897, Salem, Oregon, United States | Benjamin Forstner (25 March 1834 - 27 February 1897), was an American gunsmith, inventor and dry goods merchant. Forstner was born in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. His successful invention of the Forstner bit, patented in 1886, was to make him a rich man. Without the lead screw (which Forstner called the "gimlet-point") and cutting lips of more conventional wood boring bits it would prove especially useful to gunsmiths like himself and other high-end woodworkers. The bit was unsurpassed in drilling an exceedingly smooth-sided hole with a flat bottom. It was better than the Russell Jennings twist bits for boring at an angle and not following the grain of the wood. Forstner eventually worked out licensing arrangements for the manufacture and sale of his bit by a number of companies, most notably two Connecticut firms: the Colt's Manufacturing Company of Hartford and the Bridgeport Gun Implement Company, successors (in 1886) to the Union Metallic Cartridge Company. Even today, the Forstner bit continues to be manufactured, although it has changed to a split-ring design. Forstner also invented an electric motor. In the early 1850s Benjamin Forstner moved to Missouri where he came under the influence of communal utopian William Keil of Bethel, MO. He followed Keil to the Pacific Northwest in 1863, where they founded the colony of Aurora, Marion Co. Oregon. In 1865 Forstner settled in Salem, Oregon and the following year he married Miss Louisa Snyder. Their only child was an adopted daughter, a niece of Mrs. Forstner. Forstner became established as a gunsmith. He traveled East on business often, including to the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia and the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago where his bits won highest premiums. Through lucrative royalty payments he became a wealthy Salem citizen and property owner. Forstner retired in 1891, having by his business acumen accumulated sufficient money and property. His residence and workshop were situated on the west side of Commercial Street and later occupied by the Salem woolen mill store and E. F. Neff. He erected a large and handsome residence on his block of land near the northern end of Commercial Street. He also possessed considerable farm property across the river in Polk county, and also owned 160 acres (0.65 km2) of timber near Gates, on the upper Santiam river. Benjamin Forstner died in Salem, Oregon after a prolonged bout of flu. He was interred on 2 Mar 1897. Louisa Forstner died 12 Sept 1917 aged 75 at 265 North Commercial Street, Salem and was interred in the Odd Fellows cemetery.
