=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mary Almy - Wikipedia]
Mary Almy (1883-1967) was an American architect, and a partner at Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc., one of the first architecture firms founded by women in the United States and specializing in domestic architecture. [1] She studied architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1917 to 1919.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Almy

[Mary Almy Facts for Kids]
In 1937, they worked on Garland Junior College in Boston. Mary Almy's Legacy Mary Almy's important papers are kept at MIT. They are part of the collection for Howe, Manning and Almy. Her family's papers are at the Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe College. The work of Howe, Manning, and Almy was studied in a special research paper in 1976. See also
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Mary_Almy

[Almy, Mary - BWAF Dynamic National Archive]
Biography Mary Almy was an an American architect. Almy grew up in Cambridge, Massachusetts. As a child she suffered from polio and would walk with crutches throughout her life. In 1905, she graduated from Radcliffe College. She taught in local private schools and became interested in architecture.
URL: https://dna.bwaf.org/architect/almy-mary

[Records of Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc. and the papers of Lois Lilley ...]
Records from Eleanor Manning O'Connor's private architectural work after 1937 and material from the Seventeen Associated Architects are included. There are a number of documents about the Howe family in the personal papers of Lois Lilley Howe.
URL: https://archivesspace.mit.edu/repositories/2/resources/594

[Guide to the Garland Junior College records, 1872-1984]
The bulk of the records were transferred from Garland Junior College, upon its dissolution in 1976, to Simmons College. Additional records were transferred from time to time by Simmons College employees working in the Garland Center buildings. Small accretions to the collection, primarily publications, were received from alumnae.
URL: https://beatleyweb.simmons.edu/collectionguides/ManuscriptsCollection/MS104.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mary Almy - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Almy (1883–1967) was an American architect, and a partner at Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc., one of the first architecture firms founded by women in the United States and specializing in domestic architecture. She studied architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1917 to 1919.


--- [Mary Almy Facts for Kids] ---
Mary Almy facts for kids Quick facts for kids Mary Almy | | |---|---| | Born | 1883 | | Died | | | Nationality | American | | Alma mater | Radcliffe College, Massachusetts Institute of Technology | | Occupation | Architect | | Parent(s) | Helen Jackson Cabot Almy and Judge Charles Almy | | Practice | Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc. | Mary Almy (1883–1967) was an American architect. She was a partner at Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc.. This was one of the first architecture companies started by women in the United States. They specialized in designing homes. Mary Almy studied architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) from 1917 to 1919. Contents Early Life and Education Mary Almy grew up in Cambridge, Massachusetts. When she was a child, she had polio. This illness affected her legs. She used crutches to walk throughout her life. In 1905, she graduated from Radcliffe College. She worked as a teacher for a while. Later, she became interested in architecture. She earned a Bachelor of Science degree in architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1919. She studied there for three years. At that time, MIT had different rules for female students. Women could not join the four-year architecture program. They were limited to a two-year program in architectural drafting. Before studying at MIT, Mary Almy designed a summer home for her family on Cape Cod. Mary Almy's Career in Architecture Mary Almy worked as a drafter in London for two years. She worked at an architectural company called Collcut and Hamp. In the 1920s, she became a drafter for a Boston company. This company was owned by Lois Lilley Howe and Eleanor Manning. They had also studied at MIT. In 1926, Mary Almy became a member of the American Institute of Architects. She also became a partner at Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc. As a partner, she became the chief drafter for the company. The company survived the Great Depression, a tough economic time. However, the firm closed in 1937 when Lois Howe retired. Manning and Almy then continued their work in private practice. Mary Almy also worked with landscape architect Henrietta Pope. Notable Works and Projects Mary Almy and her firm worked on many interesting projects. Here are some of them: - In 1926, they worked on the Fitchburg Art Museum in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. - They also designed for The College Club of Boston in Boston in 1926. - In 1928, they completed work for Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Massachusetts. - They designed for Fleur-de-Lis Camp in Fitzwilliam, New Hampshire, in 1931. - In 1932, they worked on projects for Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey. - They also designed for Winship - Boston Public Schools in Brighton, Massachusetts, in 1932. - In 1934, they worked on the Lynn Boy Scout Camp in Lynn, Massachusetts. - They designed for the Cambridge Social Union in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1935. - In 1937, they worked on Garland Junior College in Boston. Mary Almy's Legacy Mary Almy's important papers are kept at MIT. They are part of the collection for Howe, Manning and Almy. Her family's papers are at the Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe College. The work of Howe, Manning, and Almy was studied in a special research paper in 1976.


--- [Almy, Mary - BWAF Dynamic National Archive] ---
Education - Radcliffe College (1905) - MIT (1919) Years of practice 1916–1967 (estimated)Professional organizations - Joined AIA in 1926 Keywords MassachusettsBiography Mary Almy was an an American architect. Almy grew up in Cambridge, Massachusetts. As a child she suffered from polio and would walk with crutches throughout her life. In 1905, she graduated from Radcliffe College. She taught in local private schools and became interested in architecture. This interest led her family to encourage her to design and build a summer house for them in Cape Cod. In 1917 she went to study architecture at MIT. She graduated from MIT with a Bachelor of Science in 1919. After graduating she worked as a drafter at a London-based architectural firm called Collcut and Hamp for two years. In the 1920s, she became a drafter for the Boston firm owned by Louis Howe and Eleanor Manning who had also attended MIT. In 1912 she became a member of the AIA and a partner at Howe and Manning. Despite surviving the Great Depression, the firm closed in 1937 after Howe retired. Manning and Almy continued in private practice and Almy would also work with landscape architect Henrietta Pope.


--- [Records of Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc. and the papers of Lois Lilley ...] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.


--- [Guide to the Garland Junior College records, 1872-1984] ---
| Creator | [authorized form of the name of creator] | | Title | Garland Junior College records | | Dates | 1872-1984 | | Identification | MS 104 | | Quantity | 42 linear feet (96 containers) | | Collection Abstract | SCOPECONTENT ABSTRACT HERE! | | Historical Abstract | BIOGHIST ABSTRACT HERE! | | Language | Material in English. | | Location | Collection may be stored offsite. Please contact Archives staff for more information. | Collection is open; some restrictions apply. Copyright for materials resides with the creators of the items in question, unless otherwise designated. Please contact the College Archivist with requests to publish any material from the collection. [Identification of item: description and date], Garland Junior College records, MS104, Simmons College Archives, Boston, MA, USA. The bulk of the records were transferred from Garland Junior College, upon its dissolution in 1976, to Simmons College. Additional records were transferred from time to time by Simmons College employees working in the Garland Center buildings. Small accretions to the collection, primarily publications, were received from alumnae. Accession number: 78.121, 78.122, 78.131, 78.180, 78.255, 79.003, 79.013, 80.036, 88.004, 92.040, 93.057, 94.039, 94.058 Processed by Claire Goodwin and Amy Leimkuhler, 1976 Supervised by Peter Carini and Megan Sniffin-Marinoff, 1976 This collection guide was encoded as part of the LEADS project by Timothy Walsh, [date: month yyyy] PUT BIOGHIST HERE! PUT SCOPECONTENT HERE! These and related materials may be found under the following headings in online catalogs. Collection is arranged into 29 series: This series contains class records, notes, and various publications from the first fifty years of the College. There is more early material scattered throughout the collection, but the bulk of it is in this series. Box 1 This series contains the minutes and reports of two early alumnae associations of the College, Chestnut St. Alumnae Association and Garland Kindergarten Alumnae Association. Box 2 Box 3 This series contains the minutes and reports of the Board of Directors from 1923-1970 (incomplete). Box 3 Box 4 Box 5 Box 6 Box 7 This series contains committee minutes, faculty meeting minutes, and correspondence. Box 8 Box 8 Box 8 Box 9 This series contains course outlines, assignments, and student information, projects, exams, and papers. Box 10 Box 11 This series contains college directories from the 1960s and 1970s. Box 11 Box 12 Box 13 This series contains commencement materials, faculty manuals and handbooks, and lists of faculty and students. Box 14 This series contains information relating to accreditation, admissions, and financial records. Box 14 Box 15 This series contains information relating to accreditation, admissions, and financial records. Box 15 Box 16 This series contains financial information relating to development and operating budgets. Box 16 Box 17 This series contains policies and procedures manuals. Box 17 This series contains by-laws, self-study reports, and master plan studies. Box 18 This series contains student information files. These files contain some student information that may be considered confidential, such as information about expulsions and other disciplinary matters. The rest of the material in the files is probably not confidential. Box 19 Box 20 This series contains records that trace Sarah Broadrick-Allen's term as acting President of Garland Junior College. Broadrick-Allen was in office when the school closed in 1976. Box 21 Box 22 This series contains general administrative records and student records such as news releases, correspondence, budgetary material, sample forms, and parent-involvement information. Records in this series date primarily from the 1970s. Box 23 Box 24 Box 24a Box 25 This series contains records relating to course requirements, the curriculum committee, various specific courses, and advisor information. Box 25 Box 26 Box 27 Box 28 This series contains primarily correspondence, budgetary information, and Board of Trustees material. These records have restricted access. Box 28 This series contains alumnae activity information, curriculum material, and budget information. Box 29 Box 30 Box 31 Box 32 This series contains news clippings, updates, and news bulletins. Box 33
