=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Barabási awarded European biochemical prize | News | Notre Dame News ...]
Jul 17, 2005 · Albert-László Barabási, Emil T. Hofman Professor of Physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the 2005 FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology by the Gesellschaft fuer Biochemie und Molekularbiologie. FEBS is the Federation of European Biochemical Societies. The anniversary prize is awarded to scientists under the age of 40 for their outstanding achievement in ...
URL: https://news.nd.edu/news/barabsi-awarded-european-biochemical-prize/

[Albert-László Barabási - The Knowledge Graph Conference]
Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005 he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology.
URL: https://www.knowledgegraph.tech/blog/speakers/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Albert-László Barabási - Khoury College of Computer Sciences]
Jan 1, 2019 · Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and has received many awards for his work. In 2004, he was elected to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 2005, he won the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology. A year later, he won the 2006 John von Neumann Medal for outstanding achievements in computer science.
URL: https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/people/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Albert-László Barabási - Conference on Computational Physics 2024]
He was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology in 2005 and the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology in 2006. He has been elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (2004) and the Academia Europaea (2007).
URL: https://ccp2024.physics.auth.gr/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Albert-László Barabási - Sunnylands]
Albert-László is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005, he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology.
URL: https://sunnylands.org/person/albert-laszlo-barabasi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Barabási awarded European biochemical prize | News | Notre Dame News ...] ---
Albert-László Barabási, Emil T. Hofman Professor of Physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the 2005 FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology by the Gesellschaft fuer Biochemie und Molekularbiologie. FEBS is the Federation of European Biochemical Societies. The anniversary prize is awarded to scientists under the age of 40 for their outstanding achievement in biochemistry and molecular biology. Barabási was honored for his important contributions to understanding cellular networks, such as the scale-free nature of the metabolic and the protein interaction networks. Barabási is a pioneer in networking as a unified scientific theory and the author of the bookLinked: The New Science of Networks.He and his research team have examined network patterns in all aspects of life, from on the World Wide Web to social settings to the molecules of a cell. Their findings frequently are featured in Nature, the premier journal of scientific research. Barabásis early research led to significant findings on how networks are structured and how they operate. He is currently examining the timing of events taking place in networks. FEBS, founded in 1964, is one of the largest organizations in European life sciences with nearly 40,000 members distributed among 36 constituent societies and associated member societies throughoutEurope. FEBS seeks to promote, encourage and support biochemistry, molecular cell biology and molecular biophysics through its publications. Barabási received the anniversary prize during the FEBS 30 th Annual Congress, held July 2-7 inBudapest. TopicID: 12243


--- [Albert-László Barabási - The Knowledge Graph Conference] ---
Albert-László Barabási Albert-László Barabási is both the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research, and holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and Computer Science, as well as in the Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital, and is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his Masters in Theoretical Physics at the Eotvos University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Barabási is the author of the forthcoming book “The Formula: The Science of Success,” and his last book was “Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do” (Dutton, 2010) available in five languages. He has also authored “Linked: The New Science of Networks” (Perseus, 2002), currently available in eleven languages, and is the co-editor of “The Structure and Dynamics of Networks” (Princeton, 2005). His work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999, and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005 he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. In 2004 he was elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in 2007 into the Academia Europaea. He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009 APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected Fellow in AAAS (Physics) and is an 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences. 2021 Talk: From Network Medicine to Food and Knowledge Graphs Our understanding of how diet affects our health is limited to the role of 150 key nutritional components systematically tracked by the USDA and other national databases in all foods. Yet, these nutritional components represent only a tiny fraction of the over 26,000 distinct, definable biochemicals present in our food. While many of these biochemicals have documented effects on health, they remain unquantified in any systematic fashion across different individual foods. Their invisibility to experimental, clinical, and epidemiological studies defines them as the ‘Dark Matter of Nutrition.’ I will speak about our efforts to develop a high-resolution library of this nutritional dark matter, and the tole of network medicine and knowledge graphs in our journey to uncover the role of individual food molecules in our health, opening up novel avenues by which to understand, avoid, and control disease.


--- [Albert-László Barabási - Khoury College of Computer Sciences] ---
Albert-László Barabási Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science, University Distinguished Professor, Jointly Appointed with College of Science Research interests - Network science - Properties of sub-cellular networks in understanding human disease - Control theory Education - PhD in Physics, Boston University - MS in Theoretical Physics, Eötvös Loránd University — Hungary - BS in Physics and Engineering, University of Bucharest — Romania Biography Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, based in Boston. He directs the Center for Complex Network Research and holds appointments in the College of Science and the Khoury College of Computer Sciences. In 2024, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) for his work in network science. Outside of Northeastern, Barabási holds appointments in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital in the Channing Division of Network Science. He is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian-born native of Transylvania, Romania, Barabási conducted the work that led to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999. Following that, he proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological, and social systems, from the cellular telephone to online communities. Barabási has authored several books, including "Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do" (2010) and "Linked: The New Science of Networks" (2002); both are available in numerous languages. He also co-edited "The Structure and Dynamics of Networks" (2005). Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and has received many awards for his work. In 2004, he was elected to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 2005, he won the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology. A year later, he won the 2006 John von Neumann Medal for outstanding achievements in computer science. He joined the Academia Europaea in 2007, and in 2008 he received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation. In 2009, APS named him Outstanding Referee, and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011, he was awarded the CRT Foundation's Lagrange Prize for contributions to complex systems and became an AAAS fellow in physics. In 2013, he became a Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences, and in 2014, he won the Prima Primissima Award for his contributions to network science. Barabási's lab focuses on network science and its applications, exploring fundamental questions in complex systems using tools from network science, control theory, and statistical physics. The lab comprises three key segments; research on network biology explores the properties of sub-cellular networks and their applications to human diseases, the lab network control aims to understand the controllability of complex systems, and the group on science of success explores the network and non-network characteristics that contribute to the success of nodes, webpages, and scientific collaboration networks. Recent publications - Human-AI coevolution Citation: Dino Pedreschi, Luca Pappalardo, Emanuele Ferragina, Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Albert-László Barabási, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Fosca Giannotti, János Kertész, Alistair Knott, Yannis E. Ioannidis, Paul Lukowicz, Andrea Passarella, Alex 'Sandy' Pentland, John Shawe-Taylor, Alessandro Vespignani. (2025). Human-AI coevolution Artif. Intell., 339, 104244. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2024.104244 - iGEM: a model system for team science and innovation Citation: Marc Santolini, Leo Blondel, Megan J. Palmer, Robert N. Ward, Rathin Jeyaram, Kathryn R. Brink, Abhijeet Krishna, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). iGEM: a model system for team science and innovation CoRR, abs/2310.19858. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.19858 - Hidden Citations Obscure True Impact in Science Citation: Xiangyi Meng, Onur Varol, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). Hidden Citations Obscure True Impact in Science CoRR, abs/2310.16181. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.16181 - Social AI and the Challenges of the Human-AI Ecosystem Citation: Dino Pedreschi, Luca Pappalardo, Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Albert-László Barabási, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Fosca Giannotti, János Kertész, Alistair Knott, Yannis E. Ioannidis, Paul Lukowicz, Andrea Passarella, Alex 'Sandy' Pentland, John Shawe-Taylor, Alessandro Vespignani. (2023). Social AI and the Challenges of the Human-AI Ecosystem CoRR, abs/2306.13723. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2306.13723 - The Clinical Trials Puzzle: How Network Effects Limit Drug Discovery Citation: Kishore Vasan, Deisy Morselli Gysi, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). The Clinical Trials Puzzle: How Network Effects Limit Drug Discovery CoRR, abs/2301.10709. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2301.10709 - Mapping Philanthropic Support of Science Citation: Louis M. Shekhtman, Alexander J. Gates, Albert-László Barabási. (2022). Mapping Philanthropic Support of Science CoRR, abs/2206.10661. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.10661 - AI-Bind: Improving Binding Predictions for Novel Protein Targets and Ligands Citation: Ayan Chatterjee, Omair Shafi Ahmed, Robin Walters, Zohair Shafi, Deisy Morselli Gysi, Rose Yu, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Albert-László Barabási, Giulia Menichetti. (2021). AI-Bind: Improving Binding Predictions for Novel Protein Targets and Ligands CoRR, abs/2112.13168. https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.13168 - 3D Topology Transformation with Generative Adversarial Networks Citation: Luca Stornaiuolo, Nima Dehmamy, Albert-László Barabási, Mauro Martino. (2020). 3D Topology Transformation with Generative Adversarial Networks ICCC, 461-468. http://computationalcreativity.net/iccc20/papers/052-iccc20.pdf - Give more data, awareness and control to individual citizens, and they will help COVID-19 containment Citation: Mirco Nanni, Gennady L. Andrienko, Albert-László Barabási, Chiara Boldrini, Francesco Bonchi, Ciro Cattuto, Francesca Chiaromonte, Giovanni Comandé, Marco Conti, Mark Coté, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Paolo Ferragina, Fosca Giannotti, Riccardo Guidotti, Dirk Helbing, Kimmo Kaski, János Kertész, Sune Lehmann, Bruno Lepri, Paul Lukowicz, Stan Matwin, David Megías, Anna Monreale, Katharina Morik, Nuria Oliver, Andrea Passarella, Andrea Passerini, Dino Pedreschi, Alex Pentland, Fabio Pianesi, Francesca Pratesi, Salvatore Rinzivillo, Salvatore Ruggieri, Arno Siebes, Vicenç Torra, Roberto Trasarti, Jeroen van den Hoven, Alessandro Vespignani. (2020). Give more data, awareness and control to individual citizens, and they will help COVID-19 containment Trans. Data Priv., 13, 61-66. http://www.tdp.cat/issues16/tdp.a389a20.pdf - Understanding the Representation Power of Graph Neural Networks in Learning Graph Topology Citation: Nima Dehmamy, Albert-László Barabási, Rose Yu. (2019). Understanding the Representation Power of Graph Neural Networks in Learning Graph Topology NeurIPS, 15387-15397. https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/hash/73bf6c41e241e28b89d0fb9e0c82f9ce-Abstract.html


--- [Albert-László Barabási - Conference on Computational Physics 2024] ---
Biographical Information: Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research. He holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and Computer Science at Northeastern University as well as in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital, and he is a visiting professor at the Department of Network and Data Science at Central European University in Budapest. A Hungarian born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his Master’s in Theoretical Physics at the Eotvos University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Barabási is the author several general audience books, like “The Formula: The Science of Success (2018)” "Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do" (2010), "Linked: The New Science of Networks" (2002) and of the textbooks Network Science (2020) and the monograph Science of Science (coathored with Dashun Wang). Barabasi's work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999 and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the recipient of the 2023 Julius Edgar Lilienfeld Prize of APS. He was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology in 2005 and the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology in 2006. He has been elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (2004) and the Academia Europaea (2007). He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009 the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected Fellow in AAAS (Physics), and is a 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences. Northeastern University *Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science *Distinguished University Professor *Director, Center for Complex Network Research Harvard University *Lecturer in Medicine, Department of Medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital Central European University *Visiting Professor, Center for Network Science Abstract: Network Science: From Abstract to Physical NetworksNetwork Science Institute and Department of Physics, Northeastern University Division of Network Medicine, Harvard University Department of Network and Data Science,Central European University. The architecture of a wide range of real systems, from the cell to the brain and communication systems, are best described as networks with complex topology. Network science has led to the realization that despite the diversity of these systems, the underlying networks emerge and evolve following simple but generic laws, that are best unveiled using the toolset of statistical physics. As a result, today network science is an indispensable tool from physics to medicine, and its applications, ranging from epidemic control during COVID to medical diagnostic tools affecting patients, directly impact our life. I will also explore the applications of the network science toolset to physical networks, like the brain or metamaterials, which are networks whose links are physical entities that cannot cross each other. Link physicality affects both the evolution and the structure of a network, in a way that is not captured by current graph-based approaches. Yet, the existence of an exact mapping between physical networks and independent sets allows us to derive the onset of physical effects and the emergence of a jamming


--- [Albert-László Barabási - Sunnylands] ---
Albert-László Barabási Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a distinguished university professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research, and holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and College of Computer and Information Science, as well as in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital in the Channing Division of Network Science, and is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian-born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his master’s in Theoretical Physics at the Eötvös University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Albert-László latest book is Network Science (Cambridge University Press, 2016). He has also authored Linked: The New Science of Networks (Perseus, 2002), currently available in fifteen languages, Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do (Dutton, 2010) available in five languages, and is the co-editor of The Structure and Dynamics of Networks (Princeton, 2005). His work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999, and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Albert-László is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005, he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. In 2004, he was elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in 2007 into the Academia Europaea. He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009, APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011, Albert-László was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected fellow in AAAS (Physics), then in 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences and in 2014 , the Prima Primissima Award for his contributions to network science by the Hungarian Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers.
