=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ricco (painter) - Wikipedia]
Ricco (October 13, 1915 - March 27, 1972), born Erich Wassmer, was a Swiss painter. His paintings often depict idealizing dream worlds in the genre of magic realism.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricco_(painter)

[Erich (Ricco) Wassmer - Artnet]
Jun 26, 2022 · Erich (Ricco) Wassmer was a Swiss painter known for his unique brand of fantastical realism. Throughout his smoothly rendered works, Wassmer depicted subjects ranging from his everyday life to allegorical, dream-like scenes featuring mythological figures and creatures.
URL: https://www.artnet.com/artists/erich-ricco-wassmer/

[RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) | Erfahren Sie mehr bei kollerauktionen ...]
RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) * 13.10.1915 ALLSCHWIL, † 27.3.1972 ROPRAZ Maler und Zeichner. Ricco Wassmer wächst als Sohn von Max und Tilli Wassmer-Zurlinden im Schloss Bremgarten bei Bern auf. Die Eltern beherbergen zahlreiche Künstler, unter anderen Louis Moilliet, Hermann Hesse und den Komponisten Othmar Schoeck.
URL: https://www.kollerauktionen.ch/en/departments/swiss-art/ricco-_erich-wassmer_/

[Ricco Wassmer at Kunstmuseum Bern Bern - Artmap.com]
On the occasion of Ricco Wassmer's centenary birthday (whose real name was Erich Hans Wassmer, 1915-1972), the Kunstmuseum Bern is mounting a comprehensive retrospective for this Swiss painter.
URL: https://artmap.com/kunstmuseumbern/exhibition/ricco-wassmer-2015

[Ricco (Ricco Wassmer) - arthur.io]
Ricco (Oct. 13, 1915 in Allschwil - March 27, 1972 in Ropraz), born Erich Hans Wassmer; Swiss painter. His paintings often depict idealizing dream worlds in the genre of magic realism.
URL: https://arthur.io/art/ricco-ricco-wassmer


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ricco (painter) - Wikipedia] ---
Ricco (October 13, 1915 – March 27, 1972), born Erich Wassmer, was a Swiss painter. His paintings often depict idealizing dream worlds in the genre of magic realism.


--- [Erich (Ricco) Wassmer - Artnet] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) | Erfahren Sie mehr bei kollerauktionen ...] ---
RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) * 13.10.1915 ALLSCHWIL, † 27.3.1972 ROPRAZ Maler und Zeichner.Ricco Wassmer wächst als Sohn von Max und Tilli Wassmer-Zurlinden im Schloss Bremgarten bei Bern auf. Die Eltern beherbergen zahlreiche Künstler, unter anderen Louis Moilliet, Hermann Hesse und den Komponisten Othmar Schoeck. Die Familie fördert Riccos künstlerisches Talent und sein Interesse für Kunst, Literatur und Musik, nachdem die Weiterführung der elterlichen Zementfabrik durch seine zwei Brüder gesichert ist. Ricco studiert ab 1936 Malerei bei Julius Hüther (1881–1954) in München und hört dort Vorlesungen in Kunstgeschichte. Ab 1937 besucht er in Paris die Académie Ranson bei Roger Bissière (1886–1964) und hält sich dort bis kurz vor dem Zweiten Weltkrieg auf. Seine ersten Ausstellungen finden in dieser Zeit im Salon des Jeunesses du Monde in Paris statt. 1941 bezieht er mit einem Jugendfreund die sogenannte Einsiedelei im solothurnischen Oberramsern. 1942 Malunterricht bei Cuno Amiet auf der Oschwand. 1943 besucht er Kurse bei Max von Mühlenen in Bern. 1948 fährt Ricco per Frachtschiff um die Welt, zuerst als Passagier, dann als Küchenjunge, und verbringt anschliessend einige Monate auf Haiti. Zurück in Europa bewohnt er von 1951–1963 das Schloss Bompré bei Vichy. Nach seiner Rückkehr in die Schweiz lebt er bis zu seinem Tod in Ropraz (Kanton Waadt). Das Reisen bleibt Riccos Inspirationsquelle. Er bereist Nordafrika, Sri Lanka, Malaysia und Thailand. Ab 1948 dienen ihm Reiseaufnahmen und inszenierte Fotografien als Vorlagen für seine Bildmotive. Riccos Werk beinhaltet bis 1939 religiöse Darstellungen, Akte und Intérieurs sowie Szenen von Schloss Bremgarten, die in einem naiv anmutenden Stil gemalt sind. Die nächtlichen Schlossszenen thematisieren die intensive Auseinandersetzung mit seiner im Nachhinein idealisierten Jugend. Mit den Stillleben, die bis 1946 Schwerpunkt seiner Motive bleiben, gibt er die pastose Malerei zugunsten eines glatten Farbauftrages auf. Die Vielzahl der Gegenstände auf Riccos Bilder zeugen von seiner Sammlerleidenschaft. Dabei lässt er die teilweise symbolisch aufgeladenen Dinge miteinander in Zwiesprache treten. 1942 entstehen zwei Gemälde, die Riccos künftige Ausdrucksweise vorwegnehmen: In Moderner Sebastian (Der Glaube) stellt er den mittelalterlich dargestellten Heiligen vor die urbane Kulisse eines tristen Vorortes. Im Selbstbildnis Ricco sui ipsius verflechtet er mittels auffälligen Bild-im-Bild-Inszenierungen verschiedene Realitätsebenen miteinander. Im Verschieben der Grössenverhältnisse und dem Benutzen von Bildvorlagen Alter Meister verdeutlicht er seine Vorstellung von einer Wirklichkeit, über der eine ausgeprägte Melancholie und Einsamkeit liegt. Nach dem Krieg entstehen Schiffbilder und Hafenszenen sowie Porträts und Hommagen. Als Inspirationsquellen dienen ihm Texte der Autoren Arthur Rimbaud, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry und Alain Fournier. Ricco variiert die eigenständige Formensprache bis an sein Lebensende. Die meist knabenhaften Modelle sind oft die einzigen Lebewesen in seinen Bildern, aber auch sie wirken in sich gekehrt, melancholisch, einsam – wie das gesamte Œuvre vielfach eine beunruhigende Stille vermittelt. In Riccos Werk scheinen Parallelen zu Max Ernst, Henri Rousseau oder Niklaus Stoecklin auf. Ebenso wird seine profunde Kenntnis der Kunstgeschichte sichtbar. Indem er in seinen Inszenierungen die Gleichzeitigkeit des Ungleichzeitigen thematisiert und unterschiedliche Realitäten miteinander verwebt, schafft er neue, unverkennbare Bildwelten. Diese besitzen eine erstaunliche Eigenständigkeit, trotz formaler und inhaltlicher Ähnlichkeit zur Naiven Malerei oder zum zeitgleichen Magischen Realismus und Surrealismus. SIKART Lexikon zur Kunst in der Schweiz Betty Stocker, 2009 https://www.sikart.ch/kuenstlerinnen.aspx?id=4026071 Do you have works by RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) you would like to sell? Contact us for a no-obligations auction estimate.office@kollerauktionen.ch RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) CHF 10 000 / 15 000 | (€ 10 310 / 15 460) Sold for CHF 16 100 (including buyer’s premium) All information is subject to change. Details My catalogue Query RICCO (ERICH WASSMER) CHF 20 000 / 30 000 | (€ 20 620 / 30 930) Sold for CHF 14 940 (including buyer’s premium) All information is subject to change. Details My catalogue Query


--- [Ricco Wassmer at Kunstmuseum Bern Bern - Artmap.com] ---
Ricco Wassmer 27 Nov 2015 - 13 Mar 2016 Ricco Wassmer Grapeshot, 1964 Öl auf Leinwand / huile sur toile 65 x 81 cm, Privatbesitz, Schweiz / collection privée, Suisse © Ruedi A. Wassmer, Zürich Grapeshot, 1964 Öl auf Leinwand / huile sur toile 65 x 81 cm, Privatbesitz, Schweiz / collection privée, Suisse © Ruedi A. Wassmer, Zürich RICCO WASSMER 1915-1972. His Centenary Birthday 27 November 2015 – 13 March 2016 On the occasion of Ricco Wassmer’s centenary birthday (whose real name was Erich Hans Wassmer, 1915–1972), the Kunstmuseum Bern is mounting a comprehensive retrospective for this Swiss painter. The arrangements in his paintings are surreal in appearance; by conflating naive painting, new objectivity, and magic realism he produced a highly unique oeuvre. The themes that were important to the artist were loss of the blissfulness of childhood, slender youths, subject matter involving sailors, sailing ships, still lifes, homages, and the yearning for distant lands. Wassmer grew up as the son of an industrialist and spent his youth at Bremgarten Palace among circles of people interested in art. After studying in Munich and Paris, he returned to Switzerland in 1939. In 1948/49 he spent a several months in Tahiti and then twice sailed around the world as a ship’s cook on a freighter. From 1950, he lived part of the time in central France near Vichy, but his bonds to the art scene in Bern, in connection with the Kunsthalle director Arnold Rüdlinger, remained strong. In 1963 he moved to Ropraz near Lausanne, and in 1972 he died at the age of 57 from the aftereffects of a lung disease that he had suffered from for many years. With over 200 loans, especially from private collectors, the show will be providing a broad overview of Ricco's art. Many of the artworks were never shown in public prior to this exhibition, and among them are a few pieces that have only recently been discovered. A large selection of photographs will be on show. This is because the camera not only began to replace sketching directly from models, but also grew more and more important in its own right from the 1950s onwards. In addition, we will be exhibiting objects that belonged to the passionate collector and were utilized as a source of imagery in his art. The show will follow a chronological order based on the catalogue raisonné of the artist’s paintings and objects. Betty Stocker began the catalogue and Marc-Joachim Wasmer took over from 2008 (Catalogue raisonné der Gemälde und Objekte). A richly illustrated, two-volume catalogue with a biography and a critical catalogue of works will be published in conjunction with the exhibition; it will also be available on the Internet. After a cabinet exhibition in 2002, which was realized in conjunction Mike Wildbolz’s documentary film, this will be the second posthumous presentation in Bern of Ricco's work. The basis for the works on exhibition stems not only from the legacy of the collector Emanuel Martin, which was divided up among the Kunstmuseum Bern and the Aargauer Kunsthaus. It also takes recourse to permanent loans and the photographic legacy of the artist. 1915-1972. His Centenary Birthday 27 November 2015 – 13 March 2016 On the occasion of Ricco Wassmer’s centenary birthday (whose real name was Erich Hans Wassmer, 1915–1972), the Kunstmuseum Bern is mounting a comprehensive retrospective for this Swiss painter. The arrangements in his paintings are surreal in appearance; by conflating naive painting, new objectivity, and magic realism he produced a highly unique oeuvre. The themes that were important to the artist were loss of the blissfulness of childhood, slender youths, subject matter involving sailors, sailing ships, still lifes, homages, and the yearning for distant lands. Wassmer grew up as the son of an industrialist and spent his youth at Bremgarten Palace among circles of people interested in art. After studying in Munich and Paris, he returned to Switzerland in 1939. In 1948/49 he spent a several months in Tahiti and then twice sailed around the world as a ship’s cook on a freighter. From 1950, he lived part of the time in central France near Vichy, but his bonds to the art scene in Bern, in connection with the Kunsthalle director Arnold Rüdlinger, remained strong. In 1963 he moved to Ropraz near Lausanne, and in 1972 he died at the age of 57 from the aftereffects of a lung disease that he had suffered from for many years. With over 200 loans, especially from private collectors, the show will be providing a broad overview of Ricco's art. Many of the artworks were never shown in public prior to this exhibition, and among them are a few pieces that have only recently been discovered. A large selection of photographs will be on show. This is because the camera not only began to replace sketching directly from models, but also grew more and more important in its own right from the 1950s onwards. In addition, we will be exhibiting objects that belonged to the passionate collector and were utilized as a source of imagery in his art. The show will follow a chronological order based on the catalogue raisonné of the artist’s paintings and objects. Betty Stocker began the catalogue and Marc-Joachim Wasmer took over from 2008 (Catalogue raisonné der Gemälde und Objekte). A richly illustrated, two-volume catalogue with a biography and a critical catalogue of works will be published in conjunction with the exhibition; it will also be available on the Internet. After a cabinet exhibition in 2002, which was realized in conjunction Mike Wildbolz’s documentary film, this will be the second posthumous presentation in Bern of Ricco's work. The basis for the works on exhibition stems not only from the legacy of the collector Emanuel Martin, which was divided up among the Kunstmuseum Bern and the Aargauer Kunsthaus. It also takes recourse to permanent loans and the photographic legacy of the artist.


--- [Ricco (Ricco Wassmer) - arthur.io] ---
The content on this page is aggregated and is not affiliated with the artist. Ricco (Oct. 13, 1915 in Allschwil – March 27, 1972 in Ropraz), born Erich Hans Wassmer; Swiss painter. His paintings often depict idealizing dream worlds in the genre of magic realism. Born into an upper-class environment as the son of cement factory owner and art patron Max Wassmer. From the age of 3 he grew up at Bremgarten Castle near Bern, which was filled with art and culture. Max and Tilli-Wassmer-Zurlinden socialized with poets, painters and composers such as Hermann Hesse, Louis Moilliet, Cuno Amiet, Paul Basilius Barth and Othmar Schoeck. Early on Erich Wassmer was interested in painting.... Wassmer marked the end of his childhood with a new name: From 1937 onwards Erich Wassmer signed his paintings with Ricco. Ricco studied in Munich and Paris, and was taught by Cuno Amiet. However, the influence of his teachers remained marginal. Ricco was fascinated by the sea, as well as by the desire to explore lost paradises and undiscovered territories. He had an anchor tattooed on his arm and added this symbol henceforth to his signature on his paintings. During the 40s, he crossed the ocean on a freighter, and lived for a while in Tahiti. In the 50s he settled at Bompré Castle near Vichy. In 1963, the French police discovered in his studio photos of nude boys who served as the basis for his paintings. A French court convicted him — without a formal indictment — of sexual "exploitation" of young boys and breach of morality to 8 months in prison. Ricco never recovered completely from this prison sentence. Following his release, Ricco returned to Switzerland and settled in a mansion in Ropraz. He died in 1972 at the age of 56. His early work (e.g. his paintings of castle life) can be classified as primitivist, while his mature work includes still... (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricco) The Museum of Fine Arts in Berne believes approximately 500 paintings by Ricco exist. (http://www.kunstmuseumbern.ch/en/service/about-us/catalogue-raisonne-ricco-wassmer-622.html)
