=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Agamemnon - Athens Epidaurus Festival]
Holders of the FESTIVAL FRIEND card have a 50% discount for both international co-productions held at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus (Alcestis and Agamemnon).
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/agamemnon/?lang=en

[Ulrich Rasche opens Epidaurus festival]
Feb 21, 2025 — Rasche last directed Aeschylus's Agamemnon there in a co-production with Munich's Residenztheater in 2022. In his introduction to the ...
URL: https://www.maestroarts.com/news/ulrich-rasche-opens-epidaurus-festival

[Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Agamemnon - This is Athens]
Jul 22, 2022 · Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Agamemnon “A curse burns bright on crime,” claims Agamemnon, the King of Mycenae. What that means to German director, Ulrich Rasche, remains to be seen at this year’s Αthens Epidaurus Festival. The king returns home from the Trojan War, to be killed by his wife and her lover, Clytemnestra and Aegisthus.
URL: https://www.thisisathens.org/events/agamemnon-athens-epidaurus-festival-2022

[Agamemnon - Residenztheater]
Der für seine bildgewaltigen und musikalischen Inszenierungen gefeierte Regisseur und Bühnenbildner Ulrich Rasche hat Aischylos’ «Agamemnon» im Juli 2022 im Rahmen einer Koproduktion des Residenztheaters mit dem Athens Epidaurus Festival für das knapp zehntausend Zuschauer*innen fassende antike Amphitheater in Epidaurus erarbeitet.
URL: https://www.residenztheater.de/stuecke/detail/agamemnon

[Ancient Theater of Epidaurus - Performances programme 2022]
Jul 2, 2022 · The tipping of staff. Did you know that? The Athens and Epidaurus Festival is Greece’s leading cultural Organisation and one of the oldest continuously running festivals in Europe, spanning now 66 years of vivid cultural presence. Theatre director Katerina Evangelatos was appointed Artistic Director in September 2019.
URL: https://www.discovernafplio.gr/en/articles/epidaurus-festival/ancient-theater-epidaurus-performances-programme-2022


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Agamemnon - Athens Epidaurus Festival] ---
No content


--- [Ulrich Rasche opens Epidaurus festival] ---
Ulrich Rasche opens Epidaurus festival Ulrich Rasche will open the Athens Epidaurus Festival with a new staging of Sophocles' Antigone in the ancient ampitheatre at Epidaurus (27, 28 and 29 June). The festival is committed to commissioning groundbreaking productions of classical works from leading directors and international theatre companies: Antigone is a co-production with Greek National Theatre. Rasche last directed Aeschylus's Agamemnon there in a co-production with Munich’s Residenztheater in 2022. In his introduction to the production, Rasche writes: 'I have always dreamt of directing Antigone by Sophocles at Epidaurus. Perhaps it is a little unusual to say, but my initial choice wasn’t informed so much by Antigone herself as by the figure of King Creon. As we know, Antigone is the heroine of the play. She resists the authoritarian rule of the King and asserts her own vision of what must be done. Her strength and defiance against authority are indeed admirable. Only, do we not live in a society where it is explicitly easy for everyone to assume the role of a hero or a heroine, speaking and acting according to their own set standards? Do we not sometimes forget that Creon's duty as king is to safeguard the state and its laws? Ι believe it is crucial to cast a closer look at the king and the arguments he puts forth – arguments that are so masterfully articulated by Sophocles in this tragedy.' Built around 340BCE and listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site, the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus is renowned for its exceptional acoustics and historical significance and seats an audience of up to 15,000.


--- [Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Agamemnon - This is Athens] ---
Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Agamemnon “A curse burns bright on crime,” claims Agamemnon, the King of Mycenae. What that means to German director, Ulrich Rasche, remains to be seen at this year’s Αthens Epidaurus Festival. The king returns home from the Trojan War, to be killed by his wife and her lover, Clytemnestra and Aegisthus. Fate, justice, revenge, family sins and gender roles (yup, we were touching on this one even since back then), all wrapped up by one of our best Greek tragedians, Aeschylus. We already picture the cast diving into dread and blood, following Rasche’s distinctive mannerism, and soundtracked to live contemporary music. But why picture it, when you can experience it at the impressive Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus? With English subtitles. You can see our picks of this year's Athens Epidaurus Festival here. For the full programme head over to the festival's official website. Info - Price: €5-60 - Date: - - Time: 9:00 pm - The Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus, Epidaurus, 210 52 - +30 275 302 2026 - Website


--- [Agamemnon - Residenztheater] ---
Agamemnon von Aischylosvon Aischylos Keine Pause Trailer Aischylos’ König Agamemnon kehrt nach zehnjährigem Kampf gegen Troja als Triumphator nach Hause zurück, nicht ahnend, dass ihn nur der Hass und Rachewunsch seiner Ehefrau Klytämnestra erwarten. Diese kann ihm nicht verzeihen, dass er ihre gemeinsame Tochter Iphigenie geopfert hat, um auf dem Weg nach Troja bei den Göttern günstige Winde für seine Kriegsflotte zu erbitten. Zehn Jahre hat Klytämnestra warten müssen, um den Mord an ihrer Tochter rächen zu können. Für ihr Vorhaben glaubt sie nicht nur ihr Recht als Mutter, sondern auch die Götter auf ihrer Seite. In ihrem Furor will sie aber nicht erkennen, dass auch sie nur Teil jenes Fluchs ist, der für jede Bluttat eine weitere verlangt und der seit jeher auf dem Geschlecht der Atriden lastet. Oder anders gesagt: Mit der Rache an Agamemnon besiegelt Klytämnestra auch das Schicksal ihrer beiden anderen Kinder, Elektra und Orest. Vor 2500 Jahren schrieb Aischylos mit «Agamemnon» den Auftakt zu seiner Tragödientrilogie der «Orestie». Er schildert darin den tödlichen Kreislauf von Gewalt und Gegengewalt als Ursache für Krieg, Leid und Verderben und zeigt, wie sich dieser durchbrechen lässt. Zu Recht gilt die «Orestie» deshalb bis heute als großes Plädoyer für Demokratie und Frieden. «Agamemnon» ist Teil der Auseinandersetzung des Residenztheaters mit dem Mythos der «Orestie», zu der auch Jean-Paul Sartres radikale Zuspitzung des Stoffs in «Die Fliegen» und Robert Borgmanns musiktheatrale Installation «Athena» gehörten. Der für seine bildgewaltigen und musikalischen Inszenierungen gefeierte Regisseur und Bühnenbildner Ulrich Rasche hat Aischylos’ «Agamemnon» im Juli 2022 im Rahmen einer Koproduktion des Residenztheaters mit dem Athens Epidaurus Festival für das knapp zehntausend Zuschauer*innen fassende antike Amphitheater in Epidaurus erarbeitet. Rasche legt in seiner Inszenierung die grausame, sich immer selbst antreibende Spirale der Gewalt offen, die sowohl dem Atridenfluch als auch dem Trojanischen Krieg zugrunde liegt, und zeigt eindrücklich das Mahlwerk dieser fatalen Maschinerie. Eine Koproduktion von Residenztheater München und Athens Epidaurus Festival Theaterpädagogisches Begleitprogramm Sie planen einen Theaterbesuch mit Schüler*innen, Studierenden oder einer anderen Gruppe und wünschen sich ein theaterpädagogisches Begleitprogramm? Schreiben Sie an resi.alle@residenztheater.de DER CHOR ALS ECHORAUM Ein Gespräch mit Ulrich Rasche DIGITALER BÜCHERTISCH IN ZUSAMMENARBEIT MIT BÜCHER LENTNER Literaturempfehlungen aus der Dramaturgie «Aischylos / Die Orestie» von Walter Jens «Die Antinomie des Gesetzes» von Gerhard Poppenberg «Bad Women, Mad Women» von Maria Gerolemou


--- [Ancient Theater of Epidaurus - Performances programme 2022] ---
In Epidaurus this year, we will watch eight performances, from July 1st to August 20th 2022. Five Greeks, a German, a Lithuanian and a Dutch director submit their proposals and stage perceptions on the ancient drama or its transcription. Performances 1 - 2 July 2022 Alcestis by Euripides SCHAUSPIELHAUS BOCHUM - JOHAN SIMONS (International Co-production - World Premiere) 8 - 9 July 2022 Medea by Bost NATIONAL THEATER - GIANNIS KALAVRIANOS (Premiere) 15 - 16 July 2022 The Persians by Aeschylus DIMITRIS KARANTZAS (Premiere) 22 - 23 July 2022 Agamemnon by Aeschylus RESIDENZTHEATER - ULRICH RASCHE (International Co-production - World Premiere) 29 - 30 July 2022 Ajax by Sophocles NATIONAL THEATER - ARGYRIS XAFIS (Premiere) 5 - 6 August 2022 Antigone by Sophocles CESARIS GRAUŽINIS (Premiere) 12 - 13 August 2022 Helen by Euripides NATIONAL THEATER OF NORTHERN GREECE - VASSILIS PAPAVASSILEIOU 19 - 20 August 2022 Iphigenia in Aulis by Euripides THEMIS MOUMOULIDIS (Premiere) July 1st - August 20th 2022 - Every Friday and Saturday Creative employment of children in Epidaurus (during the performances at the Ancient Theater of Epidaurus) - For children 5 - 12 years old. The successful theatrical-pedagogical program, begins again, bringing closer to children the wonderful and mysterious universe of ancient myths. While the adults watch the performance at the Ancient Theater of Epidaurus undisturbed, the children are busy creatively, approaching the content of the same play. The program is coordinated by the theatrical expert Elli Gabriel, in collaboration with a group of experienced theater educators and teachers of music-kinetic and aesthetic education. Tips All performances start at 21:00 and are played with Greek and English surtitles. The theater's car park has plenty of spaces for cars and coaches. Wheelchair users are granted vehicular access to the square of the theatre. Special adapted portable toilets are available. For any inconvenience and delay to be avoided, due to the current Covid-19 health measures, you are advised to arrive 90΄ before the start of each performance. Ticketing - Box Office info Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus - box office operates Monday to Thursday 10:00-14:00 and on performance days (Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays) 10:30-21:00. Τ. +30 210-7234567 (Monday to Sunday 09:00-21:00). Purchase online: aefestival.gr E-mail: tickets@greekfestival.gr Not permitted Entry into the theatre after the start of a performance, except during an interval. The attendance of children under the age of six. Smoking, and the consumption of food and drink inside the theater. The use of mobile phones during performances. Entry into the theater in high heels. Photography, with or without flash, and sound or video recording during a performance. The tipping of staff. Did you know that? The Athens and Epidaurus Festival is Greece’s leading cultural Organisation and one of the oldest continuously running festivals in Europe, spanning now 66 years of vivid cultural presence. Theatre director Katerina Evangelatos was appointed Artistic Director in September 2019. The famous ancient Τheater of Epidaurus is located within the archaeological site of the Sanctuary of Asklepios, in the Argolis prefecture of Peloponnese. It is a half-hour drive from Nafplio and approximately two hours from Athens.
