=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vacoas-Phoenix | Mauritius, Map, & Facts | Britannica]
Vacoas-Phoenix, town (township) on the island of Mauritius, in the western Indian Ocean. It lies in the western highlands region of the country, about 10 miles (16 km) south of Port Louis, the national capital. Vacoas and Phoenix were separate villages until 1963, when they became a single administrative unit; later (1968) the town became independently administered. Major industries include ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/place/Vacoas-Phoenix

[Mauritian - Settlements - World Culture Encyclopedia]
Many of the coastal autonomous villages are fishing villages inhabited largely by Creoles. The new industrial, often "rurban," settlements, which are found in the north, are ethnically very mixed. Since Mauritius is a cyclone-ridden island (major cyclones struck in 1960 and 1976), most of its dwellings are one- or two-story concrete structures.
URL: https://www.everyculture.com/South-Asia/Mauritian-Settlements.html

[A Chronology of Key Events in Mauritius - Vintage Mauritius]
Jul 18, 2014 · A chronology of key events in Mauritius from its early discovery to the recent years.
URL: https://vintagemauritius.org/articles/chronology-key-events-mauritius/

[Vacoas-Phoenix - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]
Vacoas-Phoenix or Villes Jumelles (meaning 'twin cities') is a city on the island of Mauritius. As of 2019, about 115,000 people were living here, making it the second largest city in the country.
URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacoas-Phoenix

[Best Places to Visit in Mauritius - ICICI Lombard]
No snippet
URL: https://www.icicilombard.com/travel-insurance/travel-guide/blogs/best-places-to-visit-mauritius#:~:text=Vacoas%20and%20Phoenix%20were%20separate,form%20a%20single%20administrative%20unit.


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vacoas-Phoenix | Mauritius, Map, & Facts | Britannica] ---
Vacoas-Phoenix Mauritius Vacoas-Phoenix, town (township) on the island of Mauritius, in the western Indian Ocean. It lies in the western highlands region of the country, about 10 miles (16 km) south of Port Louis, the national capital. Vacoas and Phoenix were separate villages until 1963, when they became a single administrative unit; later (1968) the town became independently administered. Major industries include beer brewing, vegetable canning, and the manufacture of cosmetics and garments. The town has well-surfaced roads, and a major highway links it with Port Louis. Sugarcane and vegetables grown in the surrounding region are marketed in the town. Pop. (2005 est.) 105,196. The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Melissa Albert.


--- [Mauritian - Settlements - World Culture Encyclopedia] ---
There are three main kinds of settlements: towns, plantation villages, and autonomous villages. The main towns are located in an urbanized belt stretching from Port-Louis (Population 160,000) through Beau-Bassin/Rose Hill (92,000), Quatre-Bornes (60,000), and Vacoas-Phoenix (57,000) to Curepipe (60,000). The only town outside this belt is Mahébourg (30,000) on the southeastern coast, but several villages are now the size of small towns. Plantation villages, formerly camps, are located close to the cane fields and sugar factories. Usually owned by the sugar estates, they are largely inhabited by Indians. Many of the coastal autonomous villages are fishing villages inhabited largely by Creoles. The new industrial, often "rurban," settlements, which are found in the north, are ethnically very mixed. Since Mauritius is a cyclone-ridden island (major cyclones struck in 1960 and 1976), most of its dwellings are one- or two-story concrete structures. A few villages, particularly on the coast, consist of houses constructed of mud and brick. Wood is used rarely. Most houses have electricity and piped water.


--- [A Chronology of Key Events in Mauritius - Vintage Mauritius] ---
10th century – Phoenicians, Malays, Swahili and Arab seamen visit island but do not settle. Island named Dina Robin by Arab mariners. 1498 – Portuguese explorers stumble upon Mauritius in the wake of Vasco da Gama’s voyage around the Cape of Good Hope. 1510 – Portuguese navigator Pedro Mascarenhas visits the island and names it Cirné. It is used as a port of call, but the Portuguese do not establish a permanent settlement. Early settlement 1598 – Dutch claim the uninhabited island and rename it after their head of state, Maurice, Prince of Orange and Count of Nassau. 1638-58 – Dutch settlement begins, but colony soon fails. 1664-1710 – Second Dutch attempt at colonisation fails. The Dutch withdraw permanently. By this time the dodo – a unique bird found only on Mauritius – has become extinct. Pirates inhabit the island. 1715 – French East India Company claims Mauritius for France, renames it Ile de France. 1721-67 – Settlement begins; Port Louis founded as a base for attacking the British in India. 1767 – French East Indies Company sells Mauritius; control of island transferred to French government. 1796 – Settlers break away from French control when the government in Paris attempts to abolish slavery. 1810 – British forces land in Mauritius after defeating the French in Battle at Vieux Grand Port. British rule 1812 – Colonel Draper founds the Mauritius Turf Club, which opens the first racecourse in the southern hemisphere and the second oldest in the world. 1814 – Mauritius, Seychelles and Rodrigues ceded to Britain under Treaty of Paris. 1834 – British abolish slavery. It is phased out on the island under a transition period known as “apprenticeship”. 1835 – Indentured labour system introduced. In subsequent decades hundreds of thousands of workers arrive from India. 1847 – Incorrectly-worded Penny Black postage stamps are issued in Mauritius; later they become among the most sought-after stamps in the world. 1864 – Mauritius introduces Railway Transport. The main railway lines began operation. 1866-68 – Malaria epidemic kills more than 40,000 people after Anopheles mosquito accidently introduced. 1876 – Indian rupee becomes official currency. 1892 – Major fire outbreak devastates La Chaussée in Port Louis. 1901 – Mahatma Gandhi visits. 1906 – Telecommunication systems established: Cable link with Reunion and Madagascar. Outbreak of Influenza epidemic, 4000 dead. 1910 – Indentured labour system abolished. Between 1834-1910, 451,776 Indians were brought to Mauritius to work on the sugar estates, of which 157,639 returned to India. 1913 – First co-operative society founded in Mauritius at Montagne Longue following recommendations of a Royal Commission Report. 1917 – Outbreak of Plague epidemy in Mauritius. 1920 – Last Batch of Indian Immigrants land in Port Louis. 1926 – First Indo-Mauritians elected to government council. 1930 – Mauritius faces severe econimic recession with low prices of sugar on the world market. 1934 – Mauritius introduces first rupee currency. 1936 – Politician Dr Maurice Cure founds Mauritian Labour Party (MLP), or Parti Travailliste. 1937 – Social unrest starts at Union Flacq Estate owned by R.Gujadhur. Workers claim higher wages and protests on the sugar estate; gunshots fired: 4 killed, 6 injured. Rioters demand better economic conditions and participation in government. Further violence spreads throughout the country with trade union activists. Pandit Sahadeo put under house arrest and Emmanuel Anquetil exiled to Rodrigues. 1938 – Department of Electricity and Telephones established. Dockers strike in the port; all activities related to sugar loading paralysed. Towards independence 1940 – Dr Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam nominated by Governor Bede Clifford to represent one of the two indians who represented indian interests in the Government Council. 1942 – Donald Mackenzie-Kennedy becomes governor. Introduces consultative committee which for the first time includes representatives from all Mauritian communities. 1943 – Sugar workers claim more increase in wages. Rioting on Belle Vue estate ending up with gunshots: 3 killed, 16 injured (among, one pregnant woman named Anjalay) 1944 – 3 Successive severe cyclones hit Mauritius causing severe damages to plantations and houses. First commercial flight between Mauritius and France. Air France inaugurates civil aviation. 1947 – Last “Les Courses Malbar” boycott at Champ de Mars by sugar industry workers. 1948 – New constitution gives the vote to many Indians and Creoles in an enlarged legislature. 1951 – Commonwealth Sugar Agreement signed. Mauritius sells 60% of its sugar production to Great Britain. 1956 – Passenger Railway Transport was ended. On 31 March 1956, the last passenger train waved a final goodbye, even though goods train continued to operate until 1964. September: Princess Margaret visits Mauritius. 1957 – Internal self-government introduced, with an electoral system based on the Westminster model. 1958 – New constitution – all adults over 21 can vote. Island divided into four single-member constituencies. 1959 – First elections under universal adult suffrage won by MLP, led by Seewoosagur Ramgoolam. 1960 – Two intense Cyclone Carol & Alix devastates island, leaving thousands homeless and prompting a housing revolution. Family planning introduced to curb growth of birth rate in Mauritius. 1961 – Constitutional conference in London. The PMSD (Parti Militant Socialist Democrate) opposes independence and favors integration with Great Britain. 1964 – Ethnic rioting; In May 1964, Hindu and Creole communities clashed in the village of Trois Boutiques, outside Souillac. One police officer and one Franco-Mauritian were killed. At the same time all railway transport was ended, specially goods transportation, and lines were dismantled. 1965 – Constitutional conference held in London to discuss independence. Labour Party’s delegation plead for independence. PMSD favour association with Great Britain. British side reluctant to grant independence and persuade Dr. Ramgoolam to cede Chagos Islands and evcuation of its inhabitants against Independence. 1966 – Britain drives out some 2,000 residents of the Chagos archipelago, in the Indian Ocean. Many are sent to Mauritius. Britain leases the Chagos islands to the US for 50 years. The US builds a military base on the largest island, Diego Garcia. August – Port Louis changes status from Town to City 1967 – General Elections towards Independence, Riot in Port Louis; Muslims and Creoles/Chinese clash. Mass immigration to Australia and Great Britain. Independence 1968 – Ethnic rioting, in early 1968, just six weeks before independence, violence between Creoles and Muslims in the nation’s capital left at least twenty-five people dead and hundreds injured before British troops quelled the fighting. 12 March – Independence. 1969 – Opposition Mauritian Militant Movement (MMM) founded, advocates socialism, led by Paul Berenger. 1970 – Indian Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi on state visit to Mauritius, lays foundation stone of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute. 1971 – First Export Processing Zone created. Textiles sector develops. Between 1971-77, 64,000 jobs are created. 1971 – MMM, backed by unions, calls a series of strikes. State of emergency declared, lasts until 1976. MMM party’s leadership imprisoned. 1972 – Her Royal Highness Pricess Alexandra visits Mauritius and inaugurates the University of Mauritius as Chancellor. Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II & Prince Philip Visits Mauritius. Egyptian Cargo Ship SS Tayeb wrecks off the west coast on Barkly Island, near the Harbour. Event occurred after the passage of Cyclone Dolly 1975 – Cyclone Gervaise devastates the island with many homeless and worths of damage. Rose Belle Accident, lorry crashes into home. Colour television is introduced in Mauritius followed by colour video. Students strike in Mauritius. All schools closed (May) Mauritius joins the space age with installation of a 10-metre diameter satellite antenna. 1976 – World Soccer star player Pele visits Mauritius. Second state visit by Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Free secondary education introduced for all Mauritians. 1977 – Telecommunications: first data transmission to London from Mauritius. Founder of Labour Party, Dr. Maurice Cure dies. 1979 – Cyclone Claudette devastates island. Mauritius approaches IMF and World Bank for assistance. Country has deficit of $111 million. Jugnauth elected 1982 – Sir Anerood Jugnauth becomes prime minister. Sweeping 60-0 victory of the PSM-MMM. 1985 – Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, father of nation, dies. 1985 – Drugs scandal at Amsterdam airport; four MPs arrested on charges of drug smuggling. Inquiry in 1986 implicates three members of Legislative Assembly. Six more politicians are accused in 1987 of involvement in the affair. 1989 – Stock Exchange opens in Port Louis. Pope John Paul II on state visit to Mauritius (October14). Republic 1991 December – Legislative Assembly approves the transition of the nation to a republic within the Commonwealth. 1992 March – Prime Minister Jugnauth declares Mauritius a republic. Legislative Assembly redesignated National Assembly and incumbent governor, General Ringadoo, becomes president. 1992 June – MMM member Cassam Uteem elected president. 1994 – Cyclone Hollanda leaves 1,400 people homeless and causes $81m in damage. 1995 December – MLP leader Navin Ramgoolam becomes prime minister. 1996 – Death of Sir Gaetan duval. Popular tribute to the former leader of PMSD. 1999 February – Creole singer Kaya dies in police custody, prompting four days of rioting among Creole community. 1999 – The fire at l’Amicale causing the death of 9 persons owing to acts of hooliganism following a football match between Fire Brigade vs Scouts leading thereafter to the suspension of the national football league. 2000 – Mauritius secures a seat on the United Nations Security Council for the first time. 2000 – September – MSM leader Sir Anerood Jugnauth becomes prime minister. 2000 November – High Court in London rules that Britain acted unlawfully in driving the inhabitants of the Chagos archipelago from their homes in 1966. Many of the exiles settled in Mauritius. 2002 February – Cassam Uteem resigns as president, refusing to sign controversial anti-terrorism bill. Vice president also refuses to sign and resigns. Head of legislature becomes acting president and passes legislation into law. 2002 – Karl Hoffman elected president by National Assembly. 2002 – “Cyber Cities” plan launched to create concentrations of hi-tech facilities and boost economy. 2003 – Anerood Jugnauth hands over leadership of MSM to his son, Pravind. 2003 September – Anerood Jugnauth hands over power to Paul Berenger, who becomes the island’s first non-Hindu Prime Minister. Labour in power 2005 July – Navin Ramgoolam wins general election, returns as prime minister. 2006 April – One hundred former residents of the Chagos Archipelago – claimed by Mauritius – make a return visit nearly 40 years after being evicted by Britain to make way for a US military base on the island of Diego Garcia. Their legal battle with Britain continues. 2008 May – British House of Lords upholds a UK government appeal against court ruling that families expelled from the Chagos Islands are entitled to return home. The decision ends the Chagossians’ long-running UK legal battle to return. 2010 May – Ruling coalition of PM Navin Ramgoolam wins general election. 2010 June – Mauritius, France agree to jointly manage Tromelin, a tiny Indian Ocean island owned by France but claimed by Mauritius. 2010 December – Mauritius launches a legal action contesting Britain’s creation of a Marine Protection Area around its Indian Ocean territory of the Chagos Islands, after the website Wikileaks revealed that a UK official thought setting up a marine reserve should end any possibility of displaced islanders being allowed back. 2011 August – Militant Socialist Movement (MSM) quits the ruling coalition in a row over corruption allegations. Its leader Pravind Jugnauth is later arrested. 2012 March – President Anerood Jugnauth steps down saying he wants to return to party politics and challenge the prime minister. 2012 June – Britain signs a deal with Mauritius allowing suspected pirates caught by its Royal Navy to be transferred to the Indian Ocean island to face prosecution. 2012 December – European Court of Human Rights rejects claim by Chagos Islanders against Britain over their expulsion. 2013 – Michaela Harte murder during her honey-moon at Legends hotel, case still unsolved. Severe impact on tourism in Mauritius. 2013 March-April – At least 11 people die as sudden rains flood the capital Port Louis. Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam blames climate change. 2013 – Mauritius pulls out of hosting the 2015 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting after boycotting the 2013 event in Sri Lanka over the country’s human rights record. 2013 – Soreze bus accident with 9 victims, followed by NTC employees engaging into a strike. Source: http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-13882731 +partly modified with added events not mentioned at source.


--- [Vacoas-Phoenix - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia] ---
Vacoas-Phoenix (Mauritian Creole pronunciation: [vakwa feniks] ) also known as French: Villes Jumelles (Twin Cities), is a town in Mauritius, located in the Plaines Wilhems District, the eastern part also lies in the Moka District. The town is administered by the Municipal Council of Vacoas-Phoenix. The town lies between Quatre Bornes and Curepipe.


--- [Best Places to Visit in Mauritius - ICICI Lombard] ---
Mauritius is a tiny island nation in the Indian Ocean. It is about 2,000 kilometres off the southeast coast of Africa. The country is part of the Mascarene Islands, along with Réunion and Rodrigues. Mauritius is famous for its exotic attractions. It has a rich history of colonisation, slavery, and immigration, which has shaped its multi-ethnic and multi-religious society. The official language is English, but people also speak French, Creole, Hindi, Urdu, Tamil, and other languages. The main religions are Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism. Mauritius is a noted destination for tourists who want to relish the warm weather, sandy beaches, turquoise lagoons, coral reefs, and lush forests. Before you plan to visit this enamouring island, check out our curated list of places to visit in Mauritius and things to do in Mauritius. Top Places to Visit in Mauritius - Port Louis - Vacoas-Phoenix - Quatre Bornes - Curepipe - Beau-Bassin Rose-Hill - Port Louis Mauritius's capital and main port, Port Louis is on the island's northwest coast, between a well-sheltered deepwater harbour and a semicircle of mountains. The French founded Port Louis in the 18th century as a strategic stopover for ships sailing between Europe and Asia. Port Louis was also the site of the first indentured labour system in the world. Thousands of workers from India, China, and Africa arrived at the Aapravasi Ghat immigration depot to work on the sugar plantations. The place is also Mauritius' economic and political centre. It has various Mauritius tourist attractions, such as the Citadel Fortress, the Government House, and the Anglican and Catholic cathedrals. Port Louis is a hub for education, research, and innovation. Things to do in Port Louis - Relive the city's past and culture at the Jummah Masjid. It is a beautiful mosque that dates back to the 1850s. - Visit the Blue Penny Museum, which displays rare stamps, maps, paintings, and sculptures related to Mauritius. - Dine at the Le Caudan Waterfront. It is a modern complex with various stores, restaurants, cinemas, and casinos. - Visit Umbrella Square, where hundreds of umbrellas are suspended in the air to create a stunning spectacle. - Vacoas-Phoenix Located about 16 kilometres south of Port Louis, Vacoas-Phoenix is in Mauritius's western highlands region. It is the second-most populous town in Mauritius. The town's history begins in the colonial era when it was a major sugar production and trade centre. Vacoas and Phoenix were separate villages until 1963 when they merged to form a single administrative unit. This place is composed of different ethnic groups and religions. Vacoas-Phoenix hosts several festivals. The notable ones are the Hindu festival of Thaipoosam Cavadee and the Chinese New Year. Vacoas-Phoenix has several attractions and landmarks, such as the Trou aux Cerfs volcano crater and the Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam Botanical Garden. Vacoas-Phoenix offers visitors plenty of things to do in Mauritius. Things to do in Vacoas-Phoenix - Visit Tamarind Falls. It is a beautiful waterfall with seven cascades, located near Henrietta village. You can book a half-day or full-day trek with a local guide to explore the falls. - If you are feeling lucky, you can try your hand at some casino games at Casino Senator. You can play slot machines, roulette, van lak, and sic bo. - Visit Takamaka Boutique Winery. Here, you can taste and buy locally made wines from lychee, pineapple, and passion fruit. - Quatre Bornes Among the top Mauritius tourist attractions, this place is located in the Plaines Wilhems District, about 14 kilometres south of Port Louis. Quatre Bornes means "four boundaries" in French, and it was named after the four boundary stones that marked the limits of four sugar estates in the area. Sugarcane is still an essential crop in the region. This town is also known as La Ville des Fleurs, or "The City of Flowers", for its many gardens and flower markets. Quatre Bornes was a forested area that was gradually colonised by settlers from France and Prussia. It became a village in 1890 and a town in 1896, and grew rapidly with the development of the railway line and the migration of people from the coastal regions. Things to do in Quatre Bornes - Enjoy the hiking trails with a knowledgeable guide. You can choose from different levels of difficulty and duration and explore the island's forests, waterfalls, mountains, and wildlife. - Admire exquisite jewellery made by Bernd Wilhelm, a German artist living in Mauritius. The shapes and colours of nature inspire his creations, and he uses precious metals and stones. - Shop at Trianon Shopping Park. You can buy a range of products and services at this modern shopping mall with over 100 outlets. - Curepipe Located on the island's central plateau, Curepipe is the second largest town after Port-Louis. Curepipe, also known as La Ville-Lumière (City of Lights), was the first town in Mauritius to have electric street lighting. The name Curepipe comes from the French word curer sa pipe, which means "to clean one's pipe". According to some historians, this name was given in the 19th century by travellers and soldiers who used to stop in Curepipe to refill their pipes. Whatever be the origin, Curepipe is one of the best places to visit in Mauritius. Curepipe has many attractions for visitors. Some landmarks include the Trou aux Cerfs and the Curepipe Botanical Gardens. Things to do in Curepipe - Hike to the Le Pouce, the third-highest peak in Mauritius. It is named after its thumb-shaped summit. It is a popular spot for paragliding and birdwatching. - Explore the Ganga Talao - Grand Bassin. It is a sacred lake and the most important Hindu pilgrimage site in Mauritius. You can see a giant statue of Shiva and other Hindu deities around the lake. - Explore the Trou aux Cerfs, a dormant volcano with a crater lake at the centre. Walk around the crater's rim amidst lush vegetation. - Beau-Bassin Rose-Hill The third-largest city on the island and a top Mauritius sightseeing place, Beau Bassin-Rose Hill, lies in the Plaines Wilhems District. The town was settled in 1722 by French colonists, who named it after two nearby hills: Beau Bassin (Beautiful Basin) and Rose Hill (Pink Hill). It became a municipality in 1868 and grew as a commercial and cultural centre. Beau Bassin-Rose Hill is home to several historic and religious buildings and a botanical garden. The town has several spas, such as the Linea Boutique Spa and the Zen Bamboo Spa, where visitors can enjoy various treatments. Moreover, the town has a vibrant sports scene, with its football team, the Union Sportive de Beau Bassin Rose-Hill, and the Sir Gaetan Duval Stadium. Things to do in Beau-Bassin Rose-Hill - Visit the Jummah Masjid. Built in the 19th century, the mosque has a distinctive architecture, with a white facade, green domes, and minarets. - Explore the Blue Penny Museum. This place is dedicated to the history and culture of Mauritius. - Shop for local souvenirs and handicrafts at Maison Lionnet (Lionnet Couture) or Kotpiale. These are speciality shops that sell unique items made by local artisans. Best time to visit Mauritius Generally, the island has a tropical climate with mild temperatures all year round, but there are some differences between the seasons in the regions. If you want to enjoy the sun and the beach, you may prefer the summer season, from October to April, when the average maximum temperature is around 29/30°C across Mauritius. However, this is also the rainiest and most humid season, especially from January to March, when cyclones can occur. The south-east coast is more exposed to the trade winds, which can bring showers and cool breezes. If you want to avoid the heat and the rain, you may choose the winter season, from May to September, when the average maximum temperature drops to 25/26°C on the southeast coast and 26/27°C on the northwest coast. This is also the best time for surfing and sailing, as the winds are stronger and more consistent. Travel Insurance for Mauritius Mauritius is undoubtedly an exotic destination. But we cannot overrule the unexpected challenges when travelling to a foreign land. A situation might arise when you may have to cancel your trip at the last moment following an emergency. Situations like losing baggage at the airport, falling ill in the midst of your itineraries, trip extensions from scenarios not in your control, or emergency evacuation may also arise. But you need not be concerned if you have travel insurance. Travel insurance offers peace of mind by ensuring you remain protected against all possible odds. You can plan out your things to do in Mauritius at leisure if you have sound travel insurance. Your itinerary comprising the best places to visit in Mauritius can become a ready reckoner for future visitors to look up to. Remember to read thoroughly all travel policies offered and to choose the one that best suits your needs. Disclaimer: The information provided in this blog is for educational and informational purposes only. It may contain outdated data and information regarding the Insurance industry and products. It is advised to verify the currency and relevance of the data and information before taking any major steps. ICICI Lombard is not liable for any inaccuracies or consequences resulting from the use of this outdated information. Related Articles:
