=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mary Munson Runge - Wikipedia]
Runge received honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (Doctor of Science) [6] and Ohio Northern University (Doctor of Pharmacy) [6] in recognition of her work for the profession. [2] She was named Pharmacist of the Year in 1978 by the California Pharmacists Association. [4] Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame in 1997. [7] In 1996 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Munson_Runge

[Mary Munson Runge, Pharmacist born - African American Registry]
Runge received honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (Doctor of Science) and Ohio Northern University (Doctor of Pharmacy) in recognition of her work for the profession. She was named Pharmacist of the Year in 1978 by the California Pharmacists Association.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/mary-munson/

[Mary Munson Runge Facts for Kids]
She retired in 1994. Awards and Recognition Mary Runge received special honorary doctorates (like special degrees) from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Ohio Northern University. These awards recognized her amazing work in pharmacy. In 1978, the California Pharmacists Association named her Pharmacist of the Year.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Mary_Munson_Runge

[Mary Munson Runge - Wikiwand]
Jan 8, 2014 · Awards Runge received honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (Doctor of Science) 6 and Ohio Northern University (Doctor of Pharmacy) 6 in recognition of her work for the profession. 2 She was named Pharmacist of the Year in 1978 by the California Pharmacists Association. 4 Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame in 1997. 7 In 1996 ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Mary_Munson_Runge

[Black history: Pharmacy trailblazers - Express Scripts]
Feb 14, 2022 · In 1979, Runge was elected president of the American Pharmacists Association — the first woman and the first African American to be named to the role, ending a 126-year run of white, male presidents.
URL: https://www.express-scripts.com/pharmacy/blog/celebrating-black-history-month-three-pharmacy-trailblazers-who-made-difference


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mary Munson Runge - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Munson Runge (1928 – January 8, 2014) was the first female, the first African American, and the first employee community pharmacist to be elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA).




--- [Mary Munson Runge, Pharmacist born - African American Registry] ---
Mary Munson *Mary Munson Runge was born on this date in 1928. She was a Black Pharmacist and medical rights advocate. She was born Mary Lowery in Donaldsonville, Louisiana. Runge's father, John Harvey Lowery, was a pharmacist and physician notable for establishing the first pharmacy in Donaldsonville. Runge graduated from the College of Pharmacy at Xavier University of Louisiana in 1948. At the time, she was among the few females in the pharmacy profession. Runge moved to California and practiced hospital pharmacy for 21 years. In 1971, she became a community pharmacist at Sylvester Flower's Apothecary. The practice was located in Oakland, California, serving needy patient areas. Runge is quoted as saying, "The greatest experience was helping poor African American people who couldn’t even pay for their medicine. The pharmacy gave me an opportunity to help people who needed help." Runge served in leadership positions within numerous professional organizations. She was president of the Northern California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1963 and the California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1967. She served on the California State Board of Pharmacy and was the president of the California Pharmacists Association in 1974. Runge was the first female APhA representative to the American College of Pharmaceutical Education (ACPE) from 1972 to 1982. In 1979, Runge was sworn in as president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA). As a Black female, her appointment marked the end of a 126-year history of white males serving as APhA's president. Notably, she was also the first employee community pharmacist to have served as president of APhA, rather than being an owner of a community pharmacy. During her tenure as APhA president, Runge formally created the APhA Task Force on Women in Pharmacy and APhA's Office of Women's Affairs. Her two terms ended in 1981. She served on federal committees, including the Institute of Medicine Pharmacy Advisory Panel for the study of the costs of educating healthcare professionals, the National Academy of Sciences in 1974, the Reagan-Bush Health Policy Advisory Committee in 1980, the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (what would later become the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services) and the Prescription Drug Payment Review Commission. Runge received honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (Doctor of Science) and Ohio Northern University (Doctor of Pharmacy) in recognition of her work for the profession. She was named Pharmacist of the Year in 1978 by the California Pharmacists Association. Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame in 1997. In 1996, she received the Hugo H. Schaefer Award from APhA. Runge, the first female, black, and employee community pharmacist elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA), died on January 8, 2014. Her memorial service was held at the First United Methodist Church in Modesto, California. APhA created a posthumous scholarship in her name.


--- [Mary Munson Runge Facts for Kids] ---
Mary Munson Runge facts for kids Mary Munson Runge (1928 – January 8, 2014) was a very important person in the world of pharmacy. She made history by being the first woman, the first African American, and the first community pharmacist who worked for someone else (not owning her own store) to become president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA). This was a huge step forward for the profession! Contents Early Life and Family Mary Munson Runge was born in 1928 in Donaldsonville, Louisiana. Her father, John Harvey Lowery, was a special person. He owned a pharmacy and was also a physician. He even opened the very first pharmacy in Donaldsonville! People thought he was one of the most successful business owners in the area, and he was very kind, often using his money to help others. Career Becoming a Pharmacist Mary Runge finished her studies at the Xavier University of Louisiana College of Pharmacy in 1948. At that time, not many women were pharmacists. After college, Runge moved to California. She worked as a hospital pharmacist for 21 years. In 1971, she started working as a community pharmacist at Sylvester Flower's Apothecary in Oakland, California. This pharmacy helped people in neighborhoods that needed it most. Mary Runge once said, "The greatest experience was helping poor African American people who couldn’t even pay for their medicine. Pharmacy gave me an opportunity to help people who needed help." Leading the Way in Pharmacy Mary Runge held many important leadership jobs in pharmacy groups. She was president of the Northern California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1963. Then, she led the California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1967. She also served on the California State Board of Pharmacy. In 1974, she became president of the California Pharmacists Association. From 1972 to 1982, Runge was the first woman to represent the APhA on the American College of Pharmaceutical Education (ACPE). In 1979, Mary Runge became the president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA). This was a huge moment! For 126 years, only white men had been president of APhA. She was also the first president who was an employee pharmacist, not an owner. During her time as APhA president, she created the APhA Task Force on Women in Pharmacy. She also started APhA's Office of Women's Affairs. Her two terms as president ended in 1981. Runge also worked on important government committees. These included groups that studied healthcare costs and advised on health policy. She retired in 1994. Awards and Recognition Mary Runge received special honorary doctorates (like special degrees) from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Ohio Northern University. These awards recognized her amazing work in pharmacy. In 1978, the California Pharmacists Association named her Pharmacist of the Year. She was honored again in 1997 when she was added to the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame. In 1996, she received the Hugo H. Schaefer Award from APhA. Death Mary Munson Runge passed away on January 8, 2014. Her memorial service was held in Modesto, California. The APhA created a scholarship in her name to honor her memory and help future pharmacists.


--- [Mary Munson Runge - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Black history: Pharmacy trailblazers - Express Scripts] ---
Celebrating Black History Month: Three pharmacy trailblazers who made a difference Celebrating Black History Month: Three pharmacy trailblazers who made a difference Like many institutions in our country, the worlds of health care and pharmacy were limited for Black Americans for decades. It was only through the relentless courage of a few who refused to accept the unfair status quo that things slowly began to change. In celebration and recognition of Black History Month, Express Scripts® Pharmacy would like to honor a few of these trailblazers who broke barriers. They changed history and paved the road for generations of Black pharmacists, doctors, and nurses who came after them. James McCune Smith Born into slavery 50 years before the American Civil War, James McCune Smith was determined to rise above his station. He is widely credited as the first African American to earn a medical degree, as well as the first African American to own and operate his own pharmacy. Barred from attending college in the United States due to the color of his skin, Smith crossed the ocean to become a student at Glasgow University in Scotland where he earned three degrees, including a doctorate in medicine. After a brief internship in Paris, Smith returned to America, where he opened a medical office and pharmacy at 55 West Broadway in New York City that served patients of all races. He parlayed his reputation in the medical field into becoming a prominent abolitionist and activist. Smith called on his medical and scientific training to write papers and deliver powerful speeches pushing back on widely held stereotypes of the day, including the ideas that head shape and size dictated the intelligence of different racial groups and that emancipated Northern Blacks were more prone to crime and vice than their enslaved brethren. Smith died in 1865 of congestive heart failure. Nineteen days later, the 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was ratified, abolishing slavery. In 2018, 153 years later, the New York Academy of Medicine posthumously inducted Smith as a Fellow to the Academy. He had applied for membership in 1847. Anna Louise James The daughter of a slave, Anna Louise James didn’t just break barriers; she also shattered glass ceilings. Not only was she the first Black woman to graduate from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy, but she was also one of the very first Black women to be a licensed pharmacist in the United States. Interested in the natural sciences from a young age, James graduated high school in Connecticut in 1905 with the goal of becoming a pharmacist. Her ambitions took her to the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy in New York. After several years of study, she graduated in 1908, becoming the first African American woman to graduate from the revered institution. She returned to Connecticut to work at her brother-in-law’s pharmacy, making her the first Black woman to be a licensed pharmacist in Connecticut, and one of the first in the entire country. When World War I broke out, her brother-in-law was called into action and transferred operations over to “Miss James,” as the local community called her, in 1917. She would run the pharmacy until 1967. Over those 50 years, James and her pharmacy gained a reputation for generosity, finding ways to get people their medication even if they couldn’t always pay. Anna Louise James lived in the back of the pharmacy until her death in 1977 at the age of 91. Her story became an inspiration for other Black women driven to pursue a career in pharmacy in the decades to follow. In 1994, the James Pharmacy was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Mary Munson Runge It’s tempting to think that all color barriers were crossed long ago. But the story of Mary Munson Runge is a good reminder that progress is always being fought for and won, even in more modern times. In 1979, Runge was elected president of the American Pharmacists Association — the first woman and the first African American to be named to the role, ending a 126-year run of white, male presidents. Runge was born in 1928 on the fringes of the Louisiana delta to another pioneer. Her father was the town’s first black pharmacist. Following in her father’s footsteps, Runge graduated Xavier University of Louisiana College in 1948, before moving to California. She began her career as a hospital pharmacist, before transitioning to becoming a community pharmacist, helping poorer people obtain medication. After being sworn in as president of the American Pharmacists Association, she worked tirelessly to advocate for the profession, including efforts to bring more women and minorities into its fold. After her two terms ended in 1981, she continued to practice while also serving on a variety of federal committees over the next two decades. Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association’s Hall of Fame in 1997. After her death in 2014, the American Pharmacists Association established a scholarship in her name. Paving the way for Express Scripts® Pharmacy We are thankful for the contributions and sacrifices these and other Black pioneers have made over the years to make the pharmacy practice a more inclusive, diverse specialty. Only by having a multitude of backgrounds and perspectives on our team can we deliver equitable, individualized, and trustworthy care. Posted date: February 14, 2022
