=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[OUTLAST 2 | O Be Careful Little Eyes, Father Loutermilch]
Jun 30, 2020 · Father Loutermilch is singing " O be Careful Little Eyes What You See..." in Outlast 2. Peder Loutermilch " O be Careful Little Eyes What You See..." adli hristiyan sarkisini soyluyor.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqcJrjFH_zY

[Loutermilch - Outlast Wiki - Fandom]
Father Loutermilch is an antagonist in Outlast 2. He was a music teacher at St. Sybil High School, a catholic learning institution which Lynn and Blake ...
URL: https://outlast.fandom.com/wiki/Loutermilch

[Outlast 2 - Father Loutermilch - Oh Be Careful Little Eyes ...]
Stream Outlast 2 - Father Loutermilch - Oh Be Careful Little Eyes What You See by NaniKanseiDorifto on desktop and mobile. Play over 320 million tracks for free on SoundCloud.
URL: https://soundcloud.com/user-898768498/outlast-2-father-loutermilch-oh-be-careful-little-eyes-what-you-see

[[TOMT] what is this song Called? : r/tipofmytongue]
There is a song that someone sings in the horror game Outlast 2 is this an actual song ? Lyrics: O be careful little eyes what you see, o be careful ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/tipofmytongue/comments/889vdk/tomt_what_is_this_song_called/

[Steam Community :: Video :: OUTLAST 2 | O Be Careful Little Eyes ...]
Steam Community: Outlast 2. Father Loutermilch is singing " O be Careful Little Eyes What You See..." in Outlast 2. Peder Loutermilch " O be Careful Little Eyes What You See..." adli hristiyan sarkisini soyluyor.
URL: https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2149158235


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [OUTLAST 2 | O Be Careful Little Eyes, Father Loutermilch] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Loutermilch - Outlast Wiki - Fandom] ---
Father Loutermilch is an antagonist in Outlast 2. He was a music teacher at St. Sybil High School, a catholic learning institution which Lynn and Blake Langermann, as well as Jessica Gray were enrolled in. It is implied he raped and killed Jessica by pushing her down the stairs, then staged her hanging as a suicide. A grotesque version of Father Loutermilch known as the Inner Demon begins stalking Blake throughout his psychological memories of St. Sybil High School. Story[] Father Loutermilch can be seen variously throughout Blake's hallucinations taunting him, often by laughing, singing or patronizing him. After some time passes, Blake starts to perceive Loutermilch as the Inner Demon. This can be proven by a red birthmark above his right eye, which the Inner Demon also bears. When Blake approaches a well in the village, the demon's tongue pulls him in. After Blake winds up Jessica's music box and finds her hanged, the demon's tongue appears and pulls Jessica into the ceiling. In another hallucination, Blake roams a long, dark hallway, when all of the lockers start to open and close violently, as Loutermilch echoes. When Blake approaches the exit door, the demon spawns and throws him to the end of the hallway. Blake suddenly appears in a locker. Father Loutermilch is standing right in front of the locker, then walks away. Blake opens the locker and starts to walk about the school, when he notices a computer in one of the rooms is turned on. He opens up an email: I took Miss Gray out of phys ed today to have a little talk with her. Father Loutermilch was telling me he's worried that she's a touch more sensitive than is good for her. (And I don't doubt it, poor girl. I know you've dealt with her dad and his big personality, and her mother was a real tragedy, God rest her soul.) But anyway Fr. Loutermilch says he thinks it might not be a good idea for Jessica to go on the field trip to the piano factory and I tend to agree. She seems like a decent risk of a runaway. On top of which, her father's signature on the permission slip is a little embarassing in what an obvious forgery it is. So I'll need your say-so to suspend permission: we'll put her on library study for that day. Later on, Loutermilch can be heard singing a song along with Jessica. When Blake returns, a phone can be heard ringing inside one of the offices. As Blake approaches, the demon walks out and runs for Blake. Blake tries to hide, and the demon disappears. Returning back, Blake picks up the phone and a familiar voice can be heard at the other end: "Hello! Hello, oh thank God you're alive. I need you to stay calm. We're going to get you help, we'll get you out of there. I want you to find a place to hide, someplace safe where you can remember the taste of her kiss when you felt her neck break you diseased cocksucker." A tongue then appears on the phone, taking Blake by the neck. Then Blake throws the phone down, and the tongue disappears. When Blake exits the office, all doors close violently and the demon appears again, chasing after Blake. In a next hallucination, Blake walks under the school, in a hallway system where all the pipes and cables are located. He finds his way through a corridor, when the demon appears and chases him. Blake is rowing down a lake, when the tongue springs out of the water and pulls Blake in. He has another vision of the demon chasing him, this time he is in the school's swimming pool. He finds his way up the stairs, where another chase happens. Now finding himself in the school library, Blake makes his way through the confusing maze of shelves, when the demon appears at the end. When Blake hears Jessica screaming, he turns around and runs for her, with the demon right behind him. After Blake falls down into a pile of bodies, he lies on top of Jessica on the stairs. She is visibly beaten, and her neck is broken. We can see the demon on the top of the stairs looking down at Blake. Blake runs around the school, Loutermilch taunting him. As Blake and Jessica are making their way from their hiding place in the kitchen, Loutermilch steps out of one of the doors. He questions Blake and Jessica about their whereabouts in the school at this time, when he tells them to step back into class. He threatens Blake and Jessica by talking to their parents. He orders Blake to leave, but as he heads out, hears Jessica screaming for help. He runs back to the classroom, where he can see Jessica and Loutermilch are gone. Jessica can be heard in what is only to be assumed is a fight with Loutermilch, then Blake finds her brutalized corpse on the stairs. After those events, Loutermilch puts Jessica's body in the noose and leaves fake suicide note on the chalkboard. It can be assumed that Loutermilch forced Blake to go along with the suicide coverup. Following the aforementioned events, Loutermilch is never seen again and his current status remains unknown. Years later at Temple Gate, when being indirectly exposed to the radio towers' electromagnetic frequencies, Blake relives a distorted version of the events that led up to Jessica's death and is later haunted throughout the school by a monstrous creature that represents his perception of Loutermilch. Personality[] Loutermilch possesses a condescending, yet friendly, almost fatherly demeanour to his voice and dialect. Beneath his kind exterior, however, exists deeply disturbing and twisted urges and beliefs, molesting a young girl to the point where she's deathly afraid of his mere presence and ending with her violent, gruesome murder, covered up as a suicide. The school recordings in the game have strange, "nonsensical" voices in them. When played in reverse we hear them as the voice of Loutermilch. The voices seem to be his inner thoughts on God and how he is happy he was born with talent. He is interested in music and math and love and sometimes thinks music and math helps him cope. Later on, Loutermilch is shown to have inappropriate thoughts on children's sexuality hoping to share in their discovery of things everyone knows but no one talks about. This becomes deadly when it is focused on Jessica Gray: Loutermilch starts sexualizing the child feeling she has sexual potential. This is further backed up when he starts making claims to the school counselor, Shelly Parham, that he thinks Jessica is too sensitive and should not be allowed to go to a school field trip. Suggesting to Parham that she was a flight risk was a way to isolate her for perverse intentions. Furthermore, in the school recordings it is implied heavily that Loutermilch is fixated with Jessica Gray to the point that he is happy at her death feeling he has escaped culpability for his actions. His willingness to alter blame is established when he suggests that Jessica was not "morally ethical" with her potent charms so it was fate that she would die. Loutermilch stated that Jessica was "resilient, smiley, flirty, not even aware of the power she had." Loutermilch is manipulative and he also manipulates religion to his own benefits. When Blake discovers Jessica, he dissuades a confused young boy on the nature of the events. In Blake's flashbacks, Loutermilch speaks of Blake being "generous" and thanks him, though it is all very condescending. When Loutermilch had found Jessica and Blake he actually had plans to molest her, so he told Blake to go home. The action makes Jessica panic making her plead Blake to stay which he listens to initially. However, this makes Loutermilch specifically shame Blake though Blake says that he hasn't done anything romantic or sexual with Jessica, which is the truth. The priest states that "shame is a gift from God" and Blake feeling ashamed is righteous as it shows him, he has done something wrong. He also manipulates Blake by trying to make him leave by saying with malice that if he didn't, he would get into trouble. Furthermore, he insists on Blake leaving so that the situation did not become more "awkward". His actions towards Jessica are less exasperated, but very manipulative. Loutermilch uses his deceptively friendly voice to say he just wanted to be friends with the duo and make things right. He even threatens on calling Jessica's father and Blake's parents which make the children afraid. At these actions, Jessica is saddened and looks away, but Loutermilch holds Jessica's shoulders and tells her to help him make things right. He then caresses her face when he says to her to "pray with him". This line makes Jessica panic and desperately plead Blake to stay. It is implied that he spoke this line before sexually assaulting her, which is why it triggered this response. The game does not specify how Blake could hear Loutermilch's inner thoughts, but it is speculated this is due to the radio frequencies that are emitted by the towers. Additionally, Loutermilch may have been the priest who told Blake that music of the birds is proof of God's existence, present in a recording, as the priest was the music teacher of St. Sybil. Before the ultimate reveal at the end, there are several subtle hints towards Loutermilch's exploitation of Jessica. E.g during the Raining Blood chapter, upon entering the changing room amidst the school swimming pool, the toilet door is banged on multiple times. When the player opens the toilet door, the toilet itself suddenly overflows with blood. The banging on the door could be an indication as to Loutermilch disturbing Jessica whilst she is using the restroom. Another example is the hangman notes that are scattered around the school sections. Despite Blake pointing out that Lynn and Jessica used to play hangman a lot, judging by the cryptically suicidal messages that accompany the hangman drawings, it could be an indication that Loutermilch was trying to make it look as though Jessica was contemplating her "suicide" in advance. It is likely that he would have gotten this idea from Jessica forging her father's signature in order to get to go on the school field trip. Physical Description[] Loutermilch is a tall, slim, middle-aged man with light brown eyes, a black receding hairline and a large red birthmark on his forehead. He wears a priest's robe and a black clergy shirt tucked into black pants, with a matching belt around his waist. Loutermilch, as the Inner Demon, is nude and coated from head to toe in blood. He has multiple limbs, an inhumanly long, pulsating tongue and is noseless, jawless and lipless. His amount of arms and long tongue in this form is representative of his sexually abusive behaviour (further backed up by the fact that the Demon forcefully slides his tongue down Blake's throat in the death animation). Player death animations[] - Loutermilch, as the Inner Demon, violently forces his tongue down Blake's throat and uses his tongue to decapitate him. - In The Lake, if Blake spends too long swimming in the lake, the Inner Demon will drag him underwater by his ankles and lunge at him, killing him offscreen. Trivia[] - The "shadow" version of the Inner Demon can be seen making masturbatory gestures with one of its hands around its groin, foreshadowing the perverse nature of Loutermilch's character. - In his concept artwork, Loutermilch is shown bearing the cross of the Testament of the New Ezekiel. This might suggest that the earlier version of the character was somehow connected to the cult. This is further supported by the fact that his dialogue is labeled with the cult in the demo's game files.[1] - In Golgotha, panning Blake's vision intensely to the right as he is dragged before his crucifixion reveals Loutermilch to be one of the observers alongside other Scalled villagers before disappearing, as is revealed in third-person mode.[2] - Loutermilch's birthmark could be a reference to the Mark of Cain which according to the Bible Cain received after he was cursed by God for committing the first murder. - It may also be a reference to the Mark of the Beast which is said to be an omen foretelling the rise of the Antichrist. References[] [] | | Minor Characters |


--- [Outlast 2 - Father Loutermilch - Oh Be Careful Little Eyes ...] ---
Outlast 2 - Father Loutermilch - Oh Be Careful Little Eyes What You See by NaniKanseiDorifto published on 2018-12-01T20:39:34Z Children's, Horror Genre Children/Horror Comment by Mersad 👺 2023-06-21T09:06:25ZComment by Mersad 💀💀💀 2023-06-21T09:05:50ZComment by 🦭 oh be careful little hands what you do theres a father up above and hes looking down in love so be careful little hands what you do 2019-08-14T18:21:14Z


--- [[TOMT] what is this song Called? : r/tipofmytongue] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Steam Community :: Video :: OUTLAST 2 | O Be Careful Little Eyes ...] ---
Install Steam sign in | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem
