=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Firebrand (DC Comics) - Wikipedia]
Firebrand (Rod Reilly), cover to Police Comics #2 (September 1941). Published by Quality Comics from August 1941 to November 1942, [1] Rod Reilly was the bored and wealthy socialite son of a steel tycoon, who decided to fight crime with his servant and friend, "Slugger" Dunn. [2] Originally drawn by Reed Crandall, Firebrand appeared in Police Comics, issues #1 through 13, at which time his ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firebrand_(DC_Comics)

[Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) | DC Database | Fandom]
Wealthy playboy Rod Reilly is secretly the adventurer known as Firebrand. Son of millionaire steel tycoon "Emerald Ed" Reilly, Rod grew bored of his privileged lifestyle and took up the identity of Firebrand to fight crime. His valet and best friend, ex-prize-fighter Slugger Dunn, assisted him in his various cases and was the only person to know Rod's secret identity - even Rod's recent ...
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Rod_Reilly_(Quality_Universe)

[Rod Reilly (Character) - Comic Vine]
In 1957, DC Comics purchased the right to publish the Quality stable of characters, which included characters like the Firebrand, Blackhawks, Plastic Man, and a host of others.
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/firebrand-rod-reilly/4005-76168/

[Firebrand - Cosmic Teams]
Firebrand, from Police #5 (1941); art by Reed Crandall. "Firebrand" is a character better known to DC fans as the sister of the original, who was featured prominently in All-Star Squadron.
URL: https://www.cosmicteams.com/quality/profiles/firebrand.html

[Firebrand - The Comics Archives]
Firebrand was a normal human being in peak physical condition with excellent strength, speed and coordination. He was trained extensively in hand-to-hand combat by heavyweight boxer Slugger Dunn and during his time on Earth-X, cultivated extension skills in evasion, espionage and subterfuge.
URL: http://www.comicsarchives.org/whos-who-on-earth-two/firebrand/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Firebrand (DC Comics) - Wikipedia] ---
No content


--- [Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) | DC Database | Fandom] ---
Wealthy playboy Rod Reilly is secretly the adventurer known as Firebrand. History Son of millionaire steel tycoon "Emerald Ed" Reilly, Rod grew bored of his privileged lifestyle and took up the identity of Firebrand to fight crime. His valet and best friend, ex-prize-fighter Slugger Dunn, assisted him in his various cases and was the only person to know Rod's secret identity - even Rod's recent fiancé, wealthy socialite Joan Rogers, was unaware of his actions as Firebrand. In fact, she feared ever encountering him.[1] Firebrand was believed to be a criminal mastermind by civilians and law enforcement, often needing to flee most scenes quickly. Powers and Abilities Abilities Paraphernalia Equipment - Blazing Torch of Justice: Firebrand's calling card left at the scenes of crimes he stopped was an upright burning torch. Related - 15 Appearances of Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) - 1 Images featuring Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) - 2 Quotations by or about Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) - Character Gallery: Rod Reilly (Quality Universe) External Links Footnotes


--- [Rod Reilly (Character) - Comic Vine] ---
Origin The first Firebrand Rod Reilly was the son of rich steel tycoon “Emerald” Ed Reilly . Bored with his life of perpetual leisure as a millionaire playboy Rod Reilly created the masked identity of the Firebrand so he could experience the thrills and adventures that had been so sorely lacking in his life. His secret was known only to his best friend, "Slugger" Dunn , an ex-heavyweight boxer who helped train Reilly for his new role. Not even his fiancée Joan Rogers new his duel identity. Firebrand’s calling card became a “ flaming torch of justice ” he would leave at the scene of one of his victories. The Firebrand took on a villainous crime syndicate that had virtually taken over the city, only to find himself mistakenly accused of being the syndicate's leader. The criminals planted his flaming torch of justice at the crime scene, implicating him. Though wanted by both the police and the mob, Firebrand continued to fight crime until the early days of World War Two. Creation Police Comics #1 Firebrand was one of many heroes created for Quality Comics by Eisner and Iger Studios. Eisner and Iger Studios, sometimes abbreviated as Eisner & Iger, was an art syndication company founded by comics greats Will Eisner and Jerry Iger . During the years 1936 to 1940, this company produced a large amount of stories and strips for both comic books and newspapers. Firebrand was created by Jerry Iger himself, together with artist Reed Crandall , who also created the Blackhawks . Firebrand first appeared in Police Comics #1 , published by Quality Comics in August 1941, alongside other heroes such as Plastic Man , Human Bomb , Phantom Lady , and the Mouthpiece . Firebrand starred in Police Comics for the next 13 issues, taking cover placement for the first four issues, before he was beat out in popularity by Plastic Man. During this run, artwork responsibilities were taken over by Lee J. Ames. Character Evolution Silver Age and the End of Quality Comics In 1956, Quality Comics, the original publishers of the Human Bomb, closed shop. In 1957, DC Comics purchased the right to publish the Quality stable of characters, which included characters like the Firebrand, Blackhawks, Plastic Man, and a host of others. Unlike Plastic Man or the Blackhawks, Firebrand sat on the shelf for many years. In 1976, DC Comics launched an ongoing series highlighting the exploits of six Quality Comics characters under the name Freedom Fighters . Writer Bob Rozakis wanted to infuse the Freedom Fighters with some new blood, so he went back into the pool of Quality Comics characters owned by DC and picked up Firebrand. Firebrand was introduced as just a hand in Freedom Fighters #10, and ended up joining the Freedom Fighters by issue #12. Firebrand remained a member of the Freedom Fighters until its cancellation with issue #15, and then dropped back into obscurity. Firebrand's unpublished secret The Freedom Fighters were slated to guest-star in the Secret Society of Super-Villains after its cancellation. However, the Secret Society of Super-Villains was also cancelled. SSSV issue #17 was released as a part of Cancelled Comic Cavalcade #2 , and the issue hints of a surprise tying together Firebrand with the Freedom Fighters’ arch-enemy, the Silver Ghost . Unfortunately, the end of that story arc was never published. Bronze Age and a New Firebrand As DC Comics entered the Bronze Age, writer Roy Thomas took ownership of DC’s stable of golden age heroes. Thomas sought to revitalize the golden age heroes, and retroactively created a new wartime super-team called the All-Star Squadron . Thomas wanted all of the golden age heroes to be part of this group. However, Thomas also wanted to create some fresh heroes. He sidelined Firebrand in favor for a new version of Firebrand that he created. This new Firebrand, Danette Reilly , was patterned after Thomas’ wife Danette Thomas. Unlike the golden age Firebrand, this second Firebrand was a female and had super powers (she could generate flame). Firebrand was retired, and has since only appeared in occasional flashbacks, though Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #6 confirms that Rod Reilly is dead through unrevealed circumstances. Key Story Arcs Firebrand’s Early Adventures Rod Reilly, under the guise of Firebrand, fought during Earth-2’s World War II. He fought against the dictatorship of the island Republic of Libertad, a crime boss named Slade who was selling oil to the Nazis, the evil Dr. Kruger, and a secret cult called the White Gardenias. To help support the war effort, Firebrand and “Slugger” Dunn joined the U.S. Navy for a time, where he fought maritime threats from the Axis powers. Rod's Sister: The Second Firebrand The second Firebrand Rod Reilly, now an Ensign, and “Slugger” Dunn were stationed at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese sneak attack happened. Slugger and Rod were badly wounded in the attack. Little did Rod know that his sister, vulcanologist Danette Reilly , was researching the unusual readings on one of the nearby Hawaiian Islands. Danette discovered that the island served as a hidden base for Per Degaton . The newly formed All-Star Squadron rescued Danette and defeated Per Degaton and his allies Professor Zodiac , Sky Pirate , Solomon Grundy , and Wotan . Danette was returned to Pearl Harbor, only to find Rod in a coma. While Rod was in a coma, his sister Danette developed the ability to generate fire from her time as a captive of Per Degaton. To honor her brother Rod, Danette adopted the Firebrand mantle. She became a core member of the All-Star Squadron over the course of World War II. Eventually, Rod came out of his coma. However, with his sister having made such a name for herself, Rod retired from super-heroics. Traveling Across the Multiverse and Joining the Freedom Fighters During Earth-2’s World War II, American symbol Uncle Sam discovered another world. On this parallel world (later named Earth-X), Uncle Sam discovered that the Nazis had gained the upper hand in the war. Uncle Sam recruited two separate sets of Freedom Fighters to travel from Earth-2 to Earth-X to fight the Nazis on that world. Still falling behind, Uncle Sam called a larger group of heroes to travel from Earth-2 to Earth-X permanently. Rod Reilly came out of retirement and joined the other heroes on Earth-X. However, even with this influx of heroes, the Nazis proved too powerful. On Earth-X, the Nazis conquered Europe and later America. A large amount of these heroes, including the Earth-2 Blackhawks and Plastic Man , died fighting the Nazis. The remaining heroes from Earth-2 organized under Uncle Sam under the name the Freedom Fighters. Reilly continued his motif from Earth-X: he acted as a Nazi sympathizer as Firebrand, all the while feeding information to the rebel fighters as Rod Reilly. Reilly got tired of the fighting, though, and found a way to Earth-1, where he went into hiding. Firebrand with the Freedom Fighters After the Freedom Fighters, with the help of the Justice League and Justice Society , finally defeated the Nazis on Earth-X, the Freedom Fighters also travelled to Earth-1. Firebrand thought they came over to hunt him down for running away, but found out the truth from the Ray . Firebrand aided the Ray in breaking out a captured Doll Man , and joined the Freedom Fighters. Firebrand fought alongside the Freedom Fighters against their arch-enemy the Silver Ghost , and the Secret Society of Super-Villains . The Crisis on Infinite Earths In the wake of the Crisis , the DC multiverse was condensed into a universe. Because of that, the Firebrand’s history changed. With a single Earth, there was no longer an Earth-X or Earth-2. Firebrand’s exploits took place during the unified Earth’s World War II. Firebrand died either during the Crisis on Infinite Earths, or at some point shortly after. Powers and Abilities In his prime, Reilly was an Olympic-level athlete and superb hand-to-hand combatant. Reilly possesses no super-powers, but he was personally trained by ex-heavyweight boxer “Slugger” Dunn to the height of physical perfection. Characteristics Height: 6' Weight: 185 lbs Eyes: Blue Hair: Brown Alternate Versions Golden Age Firebrand was just one of the hundreds of golden age heroes featured in James Robinson 's four-issue Elseworlds series Golden Age . Firebrand is only seen as one of the myriad of heroes that fights Dynaman in the series’ ending.


--- [Firebrand - Cosmic Teams] ---
NAME + ALIASES: Alejandro "Alex" Sanchez (deceased) KNOWN RELATIVES: Unnamed parents, Christina (sister, deceased), Javi (brother) GROUP AFFILIATIONS: None FIRST APPEARANCE: Firebrand #1 (February 1996) APPEARANCES: Firebrand, 9 issues (Feb.–Oct. 1996) JSA Secret Files #2 Showcase '96 #4 Firebrand IV NAME + ALIASES: Andre Twist KNOWN RELATIVES: Unnamed parents GROUP AFFILIATIONS: Freedom Fighters FIRST APPEARANCE: Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1 (Early June 2006) APPEARANCES: Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1-6 DCU: Brave New World #1 Freedom Fighters v.2 #1-9 Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.1, #1-8 Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.2, #1-8 “Firebrand” is a character better known to DC fans as the sister of the original, who was featured prominently in All-Star Squadron. The original Firebrand had everything going for it except, perhaps, more interesting adventures. Most of his stories were drawn by the rising talent, Reed Crandall. Crandall eventually moved onto “Blackhawk,” for which he is best known. Firebrand also held the cover spotlight through Police #4, soon conceding it to the more popular Plastic Man. And that fancy sheer shirt? It was preceded by the Red Bee’s by a year. To the world, Rod Reilly was an idle playboy, son of “Emerald” Ed Reilly, who made his fortune in steel. But as Firebrand, Reilly held aloft his “blazing torch,” and stuck it to spies. Reilly’s own parents even expressed their concern about Firebrand’s vigilantism, but Rod only revealed his dual identity to one person, the ex-prize fighter “Slugger” Shea (later Dunn), who was Firebrand’s crime fighting partner. Usually they encountered mobsters and/or Fifth Column spies like the Baron Von Hanson. Once he put an end to Von Hanson’s collaboration with the mob, Firebrand left his signature torch for the police to find. Reilly was also engaged at this time to Joan Rogers. (Police #1) In current DC continuity, Rod’s story picks up with the introduction of his sister, Danette, in All-Star Squadron (read below). But before this, he appeared briefly in the 1976 Freedom Fighters series. Those stories are no longer in continuity and in fact, Rod was intended to die in an unpublished tale. His current status in the DC universe is unknown. Rod Reilly’s wartime story picks up in the pages of All-Star Squadron. By this time, Rod and Slugger’s navy duties led Rod to doff his Firebrand duds for good. The two of them were stationed in Hawaii on the day of the Pearl Harbor attack, Dec. 7, 1941. They were nearby on Oahu’s Wheeler Field when Japanese planes arrived. Slugger was hit in the leg and Rod in the chest. Meanwhile, his sister, Danette (a geologist), was having her first encounter with a super-hero herself. She met the Shining Knight (Sir Justin) while studying a volcano, and they were attacked by Per Degaton. (All-Star Squadron #1). The 1990s reinvention of Quality characters continued under writer Brian Augustyn (who also wrote Black Condor) when he created an all-new Firebrand in 1996. The third Firebrand was Alex Sanchez, who had no relation to his predecessors. His history was tainted by fire, having lost his baby sister Christina in a conflagration that he himself escaped. Then as an adult, while working as an NYPD detective, he escaped yet again, but not completely unharmed. An explosion left him in need of a walking cane for life. Noah Hightower offered him the chance to turn his misfortune around by becoming the Firebrand. Sanchez would don a suit that could download an energy surge from a satellite. This empowered him with 120% of normal human capacity, but he could only “fire up” the suit once a day for four hours, lest his body burn out. Also, the suit was designed with a horrific visage and claws, to instill fear in its opponents. (Firebrand #1-2) A “firebrand” is a person with a penchant for militancy in speech and/or action. This description fits the most recent namesake to a ‘T.’ During the “Infinite Crisis,” the villainous super-group called the Society killed many of the Freedom Fighters and destroyed the city of Blüdhaven, though some of its inhabitants were transformed. That blast unlocked the metagene in Andre Twist, who found that he could generate great heat and flame. One year later, Twist remained on the scene as Firebrand IV to help the refugees camped outside the city walls. (Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1) Twist’s co-creator Justin Gray said they didn’t want him to look like the original: “Firebrand has been spared any connections to the previous costume, which would look right at home during an ice-skating competition with the sheer puffy sleeves, tights and bandana. This Firebrand is inspired by the youthful exuberance and his lack of an accurate world view. He’s passionate and often opinionated, a troublemaker like his namesake.” (“Uncle Sam…”) Powers Rod was an Olympic-level athlete and superb combatant. He had trained to the height of physical perfection. He was a good hand-to-hand fighter and accomplished swimmer. Special skills included high wire balancing, scaling buildings with suction cups, and using a lariat. Danette was a metahuman who could project fire from her hands, surround herself in a field of fire, and fly. She could control any flame in her immediate vicinity, and could absorb fire into her body harmlessly. Alex Sanchez had no super-powers, but wore a uniform that downloaded energies from a satellite. With it he possessed 120% of a normal human’s abilities. Each download lasted four hours, mostly for the safety of the person inside. The suit generated flames for show only, and was cooled internally. The suit made him more agile and strong, could withstand standard gunfire, and had infrared visibility. Andre Twist, like Danette, was a metahuman with the power to wield flames. He often employed a staff used in martial arts-style fighting.


--- [Firebrand - The Comics Archives] ---
Firebrand Profile image by Alex Garcia (Pen and inks) and David Stepp (Colors) Personal information Real Name: Rod Reilly Residence: Mobile Occupation: Adventurer First Appearance (Golden Age): Police Comics #1 (Augusta 1941) First Appearance (Post-Golden Age): Freedom Fighters #11 (December 1977) Character History Rod Reilly was born in ~1920 to "Emerald" Ed Reilly, a steel magnate and his wife. Along with his younger sister Danette, the Reilly children grew up in luxury and wanted for nothing. Danette honed a talent for science and eventually pursued an education in geology, specializing in volcanoes (Volcanology). Rod instead remained idle and directionless, pursuing a life of leisure though at some point he became a naval reservist. At some point in the late 1930's, the Reilly family hired former heavy weight boxer "Slugger" Dunn as a the family chauffeur and valet. Rod became fast friends with Slugger and asked him to train him in fighting techniques and overall physical fitness. Under circumstances yet to be revealed, Reilly hit on the idea of becoming a costumed adventurer with Slugger as his man Friday. The first recorded case of Reilly's new identity - Firebrand - occurred when he targeted a protection racket murdering window washers and steeplejacks to allow the henchmen of Baron von Hanson to case buildings for jewels without witnesses. Firebrand broke up the racket and convinced Hanson to leave the country but the police were convinced that Firebrand was part of the crime ring (Police Comics #1). As the world slid steadily into World War II, Firebrand's activities primarily focused on defeating Axis agents at home. These included thieves of top secret equipment (Police Comics #4), foreign agents (Police Comics #5) and a doctor attempting to poison the army's blood bank (Police Comics #6). In the early fall of 1941, Rod and Slugger we enlisted as Navy reservists called back to active duty (Police Comics #8). He maintained his activities at Firebrand, battled axis agents and fifth columnists wherever they were in port (Police Comics #9,#10,#12 and #13). In a notable case, he broke up a Klan called the White Gardenias, a racist and anti-American organization (Police Comics #11). In December of 1941, Reilly and Dunn were stationed at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese launched a surprise attack on the naval base there. Dunn was shot in the leg and Reilly in the chest, but both survived due to the timely intervention of a Japanese-American sailor who dies in the process (All-Star Squadron #1 and #13). After weeks in a coma, Reilly eventually entered a long process of rehabilitation. In the meantime, his sister had received powers to manipulate fire in an encounter with Wotan and adopted his codename as the second Firebrand (All-Star Squadron #3). The activities of Reilly in the subsequent years are largely unknown. It is known that he was still recovering in the Spring of 1942 when Uncle Sam took a collection of Earth-Two heroes to form the Freedom Fighters of Earth-X, an event Reilly witnessed and longed to join (All-Star Squadron . At an undetermined time in the future and through mechanisms unrevealed, Reilly realized that ambition and traveled to Earth-X. There he spent several years operating as double agent, providing locations of resistance units to Nazi forces and then warning the same resistance units so that the Nazi ambush would rewarded with a ruthless counterattack (revealed in Freedom Fighters #12). At some point prior to 1970, he ran afoul of a Nazi agent named as Raphael van Zandt, known as the Silver Ghost and fled Earth-X, ending up on Earth-One. Whether he was intending to return home or simply fleeing is not clear. In the later 1970's, after the defeat of Nazi forces, Uncle Sam brought his team to Earth-One seeking new adventures. Firebrand, who had been an outlaw on Earth-X, assumed they were after him and went into hiding until the Ray crashed into his cabin in the woods (Earth-11). After learning that he was not the target and having his interest in heroics re-kindled, he joined the team when the demon Homilus possessed them, helping restore them to normal (Freedom Fighters #13) and became a full member battling an alien race called the Warmakers alongside Batwoman and Batgirl (Freedom Fighters #14-15). The public appearance of Firebrand brought the Silver Ghost plans to culmination and recruited a team of the Secret Society of Super-Villains to murder the entire team (Secret Society of Super-Villains #15). The team eventually prevailed, though in the final battle, Firebrand physically struggled with Ghost until both he and his adversary were converted to silver by the Ghost's powers of alchemical transformation (unpublished Secret Society of Super-Villains #16 and #17, revealed in Canceled Comics Cavalcade #2). While both were presumed dead, they were each later seen during the Crisis on Infinite Earths in which the Freedom Fighters had returned to Earth-X and Firebrand was witnessed actively participating (Crisis on Infinite Earths #7 and 9). Whether this was actually Rod Reilly or a successor is unknown and as Crisis closed off the Earth-X timeline from further record, Firebrand's full final fate remains unknown. Powers and Abilities Firebrand was a normal human being in peak physical condition with excellent strength, speed and coordination. He was trained extensively in hand-to-hand combat by heavyweight boxer Slugger Dunn and during his time on Earth-X, cultivated extension skills in evasion, espionage and subterfuge. Weaknesses and Limitations While an excellent athlete, Firebrand was a mortal human and could be killed or injured as such. Multiversity Earth-0 In the post-Crisis Timeline, the history of Firebrand is thought to bear remarkable similarity to the Earth-Two version. While he did not travel to Earth-X, he was a member of Freedom Fighter (JSA #42). His post-war fate in this timeline is unknown. Earth-22 The history of the Earth-22 Firebrand is thought to largely resemble the Earth-0 version, though it is known he survived until the 1950's and attended Senator Tex Thompson's (secretly the Ultra-Humanite) gather that ultimately turned into a battle against Hitler the body of Dan the Dynamite. The extent of his involvement in the battle and whether he survived it are not recorded (The Golden Age LS).
