=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Letter to: Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, President of India]
Yours sincerely A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ___ to the Governor of U.P. writes as follows:
URL: https://vedabase.io/en/library/letters/letter-to-dr-s-radhakrishnan-president-of-india/

[Prabhupada Letters :: 1947-64]
Yours sincerely A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ___ to the Governor of U.P. writes as follows:
URL: https://prabhupadaletters1947.blogspot.com/2004/02/1963-july-9.html

[Dr. Radhakrishnan (Letters)]
Letter to Doctor Radhakrishnan -- Delhi 29 March, 1961: My dear Doctor ... Thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely,. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami.
URL: https://vaniquotes.org/wiki/Dr._Radhakrishnan_(Letters)

[Prabhupada.com The Bhaktivedanta Archives]
The Bhaktivedanta Archives Collections of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada include the Audio recordings. Documents, Publications and Images of His Divine Grace and ISKCON activities, primarily from 1965-1977.
URL: http://www.prabhupada.com/

[Full text of "Letters From Srila Prabhupada Vol. 1 1947 1969 By His ...]
Yours faithfully, (A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami) 61-2 Delhi 29th March, 1961 My dear Doctor Radhakrishnan, I beg to acknowledge receipt with thanks your letter of the 24th instant and have noted the contents.
URL: https://archive.org/stream/letters-from-srila-prabhupada-vol.-1-1947-1969-by-his-divine-grace-a.-c.-bhaktiv/Letters%20from%20Srila%20Prabhupada%20Vol.1%201947-1969%20by%20His%20Divine%20Grace%20A.C.%20Bhaktivedanta%20Swami%20Prabhupada%20%28z-lib.org%29_djvu.txt


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Letter to: Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, President of India] ---
No content


--- [Prabhupada Letters :: 1947-64] ---
| Prabhupada Letters :: 1947-64 a.c. bhaktivedanta swami | | 1.2.09 1963: July 9 Vrindaban His Excellency Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, President of India Rastrapati Bhawan New Delhi. Respected Dr. Radhakrishnan, Please accept my greetings. It is understood that you have come back from your American & European Tour on the mission of philosophy and religion. At present I am at Vrindaban. Last time (Feb. 9th 1963) when I met your Excellency to present my Srimad-Bhagavatam, you promised to read it to see what is there in it. As Srimad-Bhagavatam is combination of philosophy and religion it is a great need of the day. It is a fact that at the present moment only philosophy and religion can bring about a __ of humanity. I think you must have ___ the required ideal. The Governor Of U.P., the Congress President others all have sent their valued comments on the book. I am also expecting your opinion on the publication. This will help me very much. Hope you are well and thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ___ to the Governor of U.P. writes as follows: With reference to your letter dated March 18 __ I am desired to say that the Governor has __ with interest your book SRIMAD BHAGAVATAM _ _ under separate cover and found it instructive and scholarly. His comments on the book are enclosed. Yours faithfully sd. G.B. Parit etc letters | 04:42 | | |


--- [Dr. Radhakrishnan (Letters)] ---
No content


--- [Prabhupada.com The Bhaktivedanta Archives] ---
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The Bhaktivedanta Archives Collections of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada include the Audio recordings. Documents, Publications and Images of His Divine Grace and ISKCON activities, primarily from 1965-1977. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Learn more About the Bhaktivedanta Archives from its origins, History, Preservation, Conservation and Mission Statement and more. We start with Our Mission Statement but please check back for more coming soon… | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The VedaBaseTM 2019 is our flagship program that allows a researcher and student alike to learn and research more about the teachings of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. Check out our Blog for more information on this update. Soon we will have more Tutorials, FAQ, and the history of this dynamic program. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Check out our Blog for some of our latest news. And coming soon a graphical progress chart on transfer to digital. Galleries will showcase various collections, and Future Vision looks at the future of the Bhaktivedanta Archives. | | | | | | | | | | | Home | Collections | Audio | Documents | Images | Publications | About | VedaBase | Galleries | Future Vision Store | Blog | Disciple Database � 2020 Bhaktivedanta Archives. All rights reserved. PO Box 255 1453 Tom Shelton Rd. Sandy Ridge NC 27046-7026 webmaster : nitya@prabhupada.com | |


--- [Full text of "Letters From Srila Prabhupada Vol. 1 1947 1969 By His ...] ---
7 IRN as puaa pon tri od AA z Q S VavVdnNHdVvad V Wi altho cae VOL A. C, Bhaktivedanta Swami — { LETTERS FROM SRILA PRABHUPADA VOLUME I From 12th July, 1947 (47-1) To 18th January, 1969 (69-1-29) © THE VAISNAVA INSTITUTE in association with THAILAND D MEXICO BHAKTIVEDANTA BOOK TRUST Readers interested in the subject matter of this book and other publications of The Vaisnava Institute are invited to correspond with its secretary THE VAISNAVA INSTITUTE 8507 Washington Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230 First Printing, 1987 Limited Printing 500 Copies Impreso en México Printed in Mexico LETTERS FROM SRILA PRABHUPADA VOLUME I From 12th July, 1947 (47-1) To 18th January, 1969 (69-1-29) VOLUME II From 18th January, 1969 (69-1-30) To 3rd June, 1970 (70-6-3) VOLUME III From 3rd June, 1970 (70-6-4) To 24th June, 1972 (72-6-30) VOLUME IV From 25th June, 1972 (72-6-31) To 8th January, 1975 (75-1-31) VOLUME V From 8th January, 1975 (75-1-32) To 6th September, 1977 (77-9-1) PREFACE It was simply a matter of time before these letters would be published. After the depar- ture of His Divine Grace A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, the Founder-Acharya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, there was a coordinated en- deavor to publish his biography; funds and human resources were made available for this purpose. But many of his followers wished that similar facilities had been given for the publication of his correspondence. Although the Bhaktivedanta Book Trust initiated a program to gather and preserve a complete collection of the letters, no attempt was made to make them widely available. Almost ten years later, this has remained the BBT policy. For guiding ISKCON and educating devotees after Srila Prabhupada’s disappearance, the importance of the letters is indisputable. They contain the timeless teachings of a pure devotee to his disciples. It is interesting to note the many pertinent instructions on con- ducting ISKCON affairs in his absence. Many major mistakes within the Movement could have been avoided by a more widespread dissemination and thorough understand- ing of these letters. In addition, this journal offers the new generation of devotees the personal association of His Divine Grace, thus giving them an opportunity to gain a tran- scendental sense of judgement and the ability to recognize true Krishna Consciousness. Therefore, the need to make the letters available to all is unquestionable. We hope that all devotees will welcome this journal as an important contribution to Srila Prabhupada’s Movement. Every effort has been made to present the original material unchanged, even with regard to incorrectspelling, punctuation, and grammar. These letters are archival; there- fore, in order to facilitate devotees and scholars in their research, it was felt that it would be inappropriate to edit or “correct” the text in any way. However, letter headings and addresses have been shortened in order to save space. We want to thank all the devotees who made their private collections of letters avail- able for this publication and those who worked selflessly sorting them and producing the books. They are too many to name here; however we would like especially to thank Nis- cinta Prabhu, Govinda-bhasya Prabhu, Rasamanjari devi dasi and Amrta devi dasi for their contributions and assistance in making this publication possible. —The Publishers Sth November, 1986 Disappearance anniversary of Srila Prabhupada 1940s 1940s 3 47-1 Cawnpore 12th July, 1947 Mahatma Gandhijee Bhangi Colony New Delhi. Dear Friend Mahatmajee, Please accept my respectful Na- maskar. I am your unknown friend but I had to write to you at times and again al- though you never cared to reply them. I sent you my papers “‘Back to Godhead” but your secretaries told me that you have very little time to read the letters and much less for reading the magazines. I asked for an interview with you but your busy secretaries never cared to reply this. Anyway as I am your very old friend al- though unknown to you I am again writ- ting to you inorder to bring you to the rightful position deserved by you. As a sincere friend I must not deviate from my duty towards a friend like your good self. I tell you as a sincere friend that you must immediately retire from active poli- tics if you do not desire to die an inglori- ous death. You have 125 years to live as you have desired to live but you if you die an inglorious death it is no worth. The ho- nour and prestige that you have obtained during the course of you present life time, were not possible to be obtained by any one else within the living memory. But you must know that all these honours and prestiges were false in as much as they were created by the Illusory Energy of Godhead called the Maya. By this falsity I do not mean to say that your so many friends were false to you nor you were false to them. By this falsity I mean illu- sion or in other words the false friendship and honours obtained thereby were but creation of Maya and therefore they are al- ways temporary or false as you may call it. But none of you neither your friends nor yourself knew this truth. Now by the Grace of God that illusion is going to be cleared and thus your faith- ful friends like Acharya Kripalini and oth- ers are accusing you for your inability at the present moment to give them any practical programme of work as you hap- pened to give them during your glorious days of non-co-operation movement. So you are also ina plight to find out a proper solution for the present political tangle created by your opponents. You should therefore take a note of warning from your insignificant friend like me, that unless you retire timely from politics and engage yourself cent per cent in the preaching work of Bhagwat Geeta, which is the real function of the Mahatmas, you shall have to meet with such inglorious deaths as Mussolini, Hitlers, Tojos, Churchills or Lloyd Georges met with. You can very easily understand as to how some of your political enemies in the garb of friends (both Indian and English) have deliberately cheated you and have broken your heart by doing the same mis- chief for which you have struggled so hard for so many years. You wanted chiefly Hindu-Moslem unity in India and they have tactfully managed to undo your work, by creation of the Pakisthan and I nd i a separately. You wanted freedom for India but they have given permanent dependence of India. You wanted to do something for the upliftment of the posi- tion of the Bhangis but they are still rotting as Bhangis even though you are living in the Bhangi colony. They are all therefore illusions and when these things will be presented to you as they are, you must consider them as God-sent. God has fa- voured you by dissipating the illusion you were hovering in, and by the same illusion you were, nursing those ideas as Truth(?). You must know that you are in the rela- tive world which is called by the sages as Dwaita i.e. dual- and nothing is absolute here. Your Ahimsa is always followed by Hinsa as the light is followed by darkness 4 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda or the father is followed by the son. Noth- ing is absolute truth in this dual world. You did not know this neither you ever cared to know this from the right sources and therefore all your attempts to create unity were followed by disunity and Ahimsa. Ahimsa was followed by Himsa. But it is better late than never. You must know now something about the Ab- solute Truth. The Truth with which you have been experimenting so long is rela- tive. The relative truths are creations of the ‘Daivi Maya’ qualified by the three modes of Nature. They are all insur- mountable as is explained in the Bhagwat Geeta (7/14). The Absolute Truth is the Absolute Godhead. In the Katha Upanishad it is ordered that one must approach the bonafide Guru who is not only well versed in all the scriptures of the world but is also the real- ised soul in Brahman the Absolute—in or- der to learn the science of Absolute Truth. So also it is instructed in the Bhagwat Geeta as follows:— Tad Biddhi Pranipatena Pariprasnena Sebaya Upadekshyanti Tad Jnanam Jnanina Tatwadarshina (4/34) But I know that you never underwent such transcendental training except some severe penances which you invented for your purpose as you have invented so many things in the course of experiment- ing with the relative truths. You might have easily avoided them if you had ap- proached the Guru as abovementioned. But your sincere efforts to attain some Godly qualities by austerities etc surely have raised you to some higher position which you can better utilise for the pur- pose of the Absolute Truth. If you, how- ever, remain satisfied with such tem- porary position only and do not try to know the Absolute Truth, then surely you are to fall down from the artificially ex- alted position under the laws of Nature. But if you really want to approach the Ab- solute Truth and want to do some real good to the people in general all over the world, which shall include your ideas of unity, peace and non-violence, then you must give up the rotten politics immedi- ately and rise up for the preaching work of the philosophy and religion of “Bhagwat Geeta” without offering unnecessary and dogmatic interpretations on them. I had occasionally discussed this subject in my paper ‘‘Back to Godhead” and a leaf from the same is enclosed herewith for your reference. I would only request you to retire from politics at least for a month only and let us have discussion on the Bhagwat Geeta. I am sure, thereby, that you shall get a new light from the result of such discussions not only for your benefit but for the bene- fit of the world at large—as I know that you are sincere, honest and moralist. Awaiting your early reply with inter- est. Yours sincerely, Abhay Charan De. Enclosure—one leaf from Back to God- head 47-2 Cawnpore. 13th July, 1947 Raja Mohendra Pratap World Federation Prem MohaVidyalaya P.O. Brindaban. Dear Raja Sahib, In continuation of my last post card, I beg to inform you that I have finished the reading of your book Religion of Love. In my opinion the whole thesis is based on the philosophy of Pantheism and the ap- proach is made by the services of man- kind. Religion of Love is the true religious idea but if the approach is made through the service of mankind only, then the 1940s 5 process is made imperfect, partial and unscientific. As you say the waves of the creations are the different aspects, why a particular type of waves namely the mankind should be partially selected and offered services and why other types of waves such as the beasts or birds, the plants and the stone shall not be offered a similar type of ser- vices? In that case how can you say that the worship of a stone is sinful while a man who is more than a stone shall be considered as the object of Love? These are some of the questions that arise out of a critical study of your book. If you so desire I can enter into discus- sions about it and my opinion is that your approach is partial and unscientific. There is no hesitation to accept the princi- ple of the Religion of Love because the Absolute Truth is, as we have known, Godhead Who is Sat, Chit and Ananda. Without Ananda there cannot be any Love that is an accepted fact. Your delineation of society, friendship and love among the human beings is based on this Ananda portion only but you have avoided the other portions of eternity and cognition of God the Whole soul. Thus the approach is partial and unscientific. The true Religion of Love is perfectly inculcated in the Bhagwat Geeta. When we speak of Love there must be the object of Love and the Lover too. Here in this world we find that the object of Love and the Lover both are the cheater and the cheated in their recip- rocal dealings. That is our experience. But the ultimate end being one Whole Soul, the dual existence of the object of Lover and the Loved loses identity. In that case the eternity and cognisibility of the Loved and Lover vanish at once. In this way there arises many questions which may be put forward to you for further dis- cussions to adjust your ideas of religion. Besides you have not quoted any au- thority for all your statements. So it is more or less dogmatic. If different men put different dogmatic views about reli- gion and its essentials who is to be ac- cepted and who is not be? Therefore the approach shall be and must be authorita- tive, scientific and universal. Your deline- ations do not conform to all these necessary things. That is my main conten- tion. If you have time to discuss on it, I shall be glad to substantiate my conten- tions as far as possible. My basis of argu- ments will be Bhagwat Geeta which is the most authoritative, scientific and univer- sal. To summarise the conclusions of Bhagwat Geeta it may be said that, 1) God is One and everything is in Him and He is in everything. 2) To render transcendental service unto God is to serve everything that be, just like to water the root of the tree is to water the different branches and numer- ous leaves of the tree or to supply food to the stomach is to vitalise all the senses and the sense organs of the body. 3) The parts are automatically served when the Whole is served but when the parts are served the whole may not be served or not served at all. 4) The parts and the Whole being eter- nally related, it is the eternal duty of the parts to render service unto the Whole. | 5) A recipient of the services of the parts, God’s ‘“‘Satchidananda’’ Vigraha i.e. the All Attractive Cognisant and All blissful Personality eternal. He can reveal Himself by His own potency without any help of the external potency called Maya inorder to be cognisible by the limited po- tency of the parts and as such He is not only the greatest of all but he is the small- est of all. That is His prerogative. 6) He is better realised when He by His causeless mercy agrees to descend in this mortal world but he He is never realised by the partial speculations of the emperic philosophers however systematic and longtermed it may be. 6 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda 7) Sree Krishna is the Personality of Godhead and is the Summum Bonum Cause of all Causes proved by fact and fig- ures in the statement of Bhagwat Geeta, but He reserves the right of not being ex- posed to the sensual speculations of the emperic philosophers. 8) One should therefore surrender unto Him if one wants to know Him as He is and that is the real process to approach the Infinite by the infinitesimals. 9) Sree Krishna is easily availlable by the Religion of Love i.e. by Love and ser- vice as conceived by the damsels of “Braja” who had practically no education whatsoever and much less any claim for high class birth right. 10) The highest service that can be rendered to the Mankind is, therefore, to preach the philosophy and religion of Bhagwat Geeta for all the times, all the places and all the people. I hope you may agree with me and thus make a combined effort in this direction for the benefit of the Mankind. Yours sincerely, Abhay Charan De 47-3 Calcutta. 21st October, 1947 The Proprietor, Aska Distillery, Aska. D/sir, We have decided to open a branch manufactory of our above Laboratory in a suitable locality of Berhampur. We are ar- ranging to approach the local excise au- thorities to grant us permit for possessing and using rectified spirit for medicinal purposes. But before we do anything fi- nally as would like to enquire from your goodself whether it is possible to get suffi- cient quantity of rectified spirit from your distillery. The bearer of this letter is a messenger on our behalf and we shall be thankful if you will kindly let us know the following points per bearer. 1. Whether rectified spirit is obtain- able from you at the rate of 100 gallons per month. 2. Whether you distill rectified spirit throughout the whole year. 3. Your usual strength of rectified spirit. Yours faithfully, For Vimaltone Laboratories Ltd. Abhay Charan De Director in chief. 49-1 Calcutta 28th February, 1949 Hon. Sardar Dr. Vallavbhaiji Patel Deputy Prime Minister, Government of India, New Delhi. Revered Sir, May your honour accept my humble Namaskar. Your honour is well known as the Iron man of India but I know that you the most practical man who can take things as they are. With this idea in view I venture to approach your honour for sub- mitting the following few lines for your consideration and necessary action. Funds are being collected to commem- orate Mahatma Gandhiji in a fitting man- ner and I beg to suggest that the same may be done in the Gandhian way and not oth- erwise. Gandhiji’s whole life was dedi- cated to the service of humanity at large with special interest for raising the moral standard. His later activities showed that he was equal to every one and all the peo- ple of the world knew him more as the spiritual leader than a mere politician. Devotion to Godhead was his ultimate aim and when I say that his sacred memory should be perpetuated not in the ordinary 1940s 7 way but in the Gandhian way, I mean that fitting respect to his memory will be done in the following manner. 1. In the midst of his multifarious du- ties, Gandhiji never missed to attend to his Ramdhun Kirtan meeting. This is one of the soundest method for the culture of de- votion to God. In the opinion of *‘Srimad- Bhagbatam’, one who is imbibed with the devotion of Godhead is also endowed with all the good qualities of the gods. But one who is not a devotee of Godhead, has not any value for his good qualities because he utilises his so called good qualities for ul- tirior purposes. As such the easy way to raise the moral standard of people in gen- eral, is to make this ‘Samkirtan’ move- ment more popular all over the world by philosophical discourses based on reason- ing and moral and ethical codes. The Vaishnava Acharyas especially Lord Chaitanya and his six Goswamin disciples give us ample opportunity and scope for this work. Lord Chaitanya first inaugu- rated the Samkrtan or Ramdhun move- ment and the later Goswamins supported it by scholarly philosophical synthesis. The six ‘‘Sandarvas’’ by Sreela Jiva Go- swami are marvelous in this respect. 2. The second item is to take up the temple entry or temple worship move- ment. This is, in the real sense, a theistic cultural movement and the facility or op- portunity shall be open to every one what- soever he may be. All the past Acharyas accepted everyone who desires to offer his respect to God inspired by transcendental love and devotion. We can support this movement of Gandhiji on the authority of Shastras. There are thousands and lakhs of temples all over India but they are not always properly managed. Some of them have become the positive dens for unde- sirable activities and most of the owners or trustees of such temples do not know how to utilise these sacred buildings. Nei- ther modernised gentlemen have any in- terest for these neglected theistic institutions. Originally the aim of these temples was to diffuse spiritual culture in every quarter. These temples or theistic institutions should therefore be reorganised as the centre of spiritual cul- ture according to authentic principles as laid down in the scriptures like Bhagwat Geeta. 3. The third item is to take up the “Har- ijan’ movement. This movement is, in the real sense, a spiritual initiation movement and this should be organised in such a manner that people all over the world may take interest in it. The ‘Harijan’ is a word which shall not be used neglectfully as it is done now but attempt should be made to make every body a ‘Harijan’. ‘Harijan’ means the recognised man of Hari the Personality of Godhead and thus he (the Harijan) is as important a man as the knight of the King. So ‘Harijan’ move- ment should be strengthened more scien- tifically to turn every person who is now ‘Mayajan’ into a ‘Harijan’. The ‘Mayajan’ is a word which is applicable to a person who is ordinarily engaged in the service of materialistic pursuits, whereas the ‘Hari- jan’ is the person whose main business is to attain perfection of human life, as Ma- hatma Gandhi did, by spiritualistic reali- sation. This movement should therefore be conducted under strict disciplinary methods as prescribed by the ‘Mahajans’ or the ‘Harijan’ of accredited merit. In such a movement we shall have full co- operation of the ‘Sadhu’ community in In- dia. 4. The fourth item is to organise the much discussed caste-system as a solution of natural division of the human beings all over the world. Nationalistic division of human races is artificial but scientific di- vision of the caste system as envisaged in the Bhagwat Geeta is natural. We shall have to pick up Brahmins and others not only from the Indian people but from the 8 Letters from Srila Prabhupada peoples of all over the world. The vitiated caste system of present India is never sanctioned by the scriptures. But the caste system is made by God according to quality and work of the subject and it was never designed for the benefit of acciden- tal birth right. Thus whatever is made by God cannot be destroyed by man. De- struction of the caste system as contem- plated by some exponents, is therefore out of question. By the modes of Nature dif- ferent persons are imbued with different qualities and the scientific way of division of human society, from the qualitative as- pect, by the caste system is quite natural. But the basic principle of such caste sys- tem is to serve the plan of Godhead and by doing so the four orders of caste system make a headway by the co-operative method. When such spiritual progress is definitely made, the materialistic prog- ress is automatically effected as a matter of course. That makes a real classless so- ciety. The above four-fold Gandhi move- ments, if done in an organised, scientific way supported by all the authentic scrip- tures of all religiosities, will bring in that tranquility of peace respite of all harsh- ness and bitterness of the present world, which we have longed for till now. I wish to organise a spiritual society for the above movements and therefore I seek your active help and support for this. The immediate need is to start an organi- sation centre in a suitable place preferably in New Delhi under your direct supervi- sion and to train up a batch of youngmen for this transcendental service. If possible to conduct a monthly magazine in this re- spect for propaganda work. If your honour will allow me an inter- view, I shall be very glad to explain the whole idea personally and let you know how the scheme can be given a practical shape for subsiding the general unrest all over the world. Such an organised move- ment shall be the panacea of all social maladies. The State is giving help for so many man-made purposes and I pray that a sum of Rs 2000/-per month may be allowed for starting these Gandhian movements in or- ganised form and that on authentic basis I think if your honour as a renowned practi- cal man accepts my humble suggestion, it may be by the Will of God, that the whole atmosphere of the present world calami- ties may be mitigated altogether. My humble self had the privilege of taking this training under the lotus feet of my Spiritual Master and I am confident to or- ganise this work in a scientific way if Iam helped by the State. Hoping to be excused for intruding upon your valuable time and awaiting your early reply with deep interest. With my best regards, I beg to remain, Yours faithfully, Abhay Charan De 49-2 Calcutta 14th March, 1949 Dear Juggannath Babu, Please accept my respectful Na- maskar. The sacred meeting organised by you at your place yesterday will be re- membered by me with great reverence and I must thank you from the very core of my heart for giving me a chance to serve the cause of the Potency of the Almighty God. I think you have inherited some tran- scendental talents by the good deeds of your past life and as such you have taken your birth in the family of the SREEMA- TAM as stated in the Bhagwat Geeta. God willing you shall render tremendous tran- scendental service in the rest of your life and by doing so you shall not only glorify the family in which you have taken your birth but also the community and the country will be benefitted. 1940s 9 Yesterday evening when we were talk- ing at your Verandah we had some talks over the advent day of Lord Chaitanya which falls to-day the most auspicious Dol-jatra Purnima day and as such I my- self along with some members of my family to day observing fast till the advent moment of Sree Chaitanya Mahaprabhu just in the evening. Guru Moharaj Shas- triji advised the members assembled yes- terday to observe fast to-day and this is being done as a matter of course on the oc- casion of Gour Jayanti day. I was so glad to hear from you that you know Lord Chaita- nya as the Incarnation of Godhead. Yes he is so and there are ample proofs of His Be- ing so in the different Shastras such as Mahabharat, Bhagwat, Upanishads and many other Puranas. So on the occasion of Lord Chaitanya’s 463rd advent cere- mony, I am taking this opportunity to re- member about him which will help my Brata observed to-day. I hope you will not mind for intruding upon your time with this statement. In the Srimad Bhagwat when Karabha- jan Muni was elucidating the different In- carnations of Godhead in different Yugas, he said that in the “Kali yuga the intelli- gent persons will worship the Incarnation of Sree Krishna, by the transcendental Samkirtan method. This Incarnation of Sree Krishna will be Non-Blackish in the colour of His body but will constantly chant the Name of Krishna along with His many disciples who will act as the soldiers for the deliverance of the fallen souls of the Kali yuga.” Sree Krishna Chaitanya preached as one of the Vaishnava Acharyas like Ra- manujacharya and others and His mission was to establish the same theory of deliv- erance as was propounded by Sree Krishna Himself in the Bhagwat Geeta. In the Bhagwat Geeta the Lord personally described as to the method of approaching Him, His real features, His different Po- tencies known as the Mahamaya and the Yoga-Maya, His Virat appearance His method of creation maintenance and de- struction of the material world, informa- tion of the transcendental world which does not annihilate even after the annihila- tion of the material world. The living enti- ties souls, the process of migration of the souls the description of the Mahatmas, their duties and lastly the duty of every body after elaborate elucidation of the three modes of Nature Satya Raja Tama and the different human races, work, knowledge, devotion, worship activities under the influence of such modes of Na- ture. In the Bhagwat Geeta a clear distinc- tion has been made between the Ashura Prakriti and Daiva Prakriti and He has ve- hemently deprecated the demonic or Ashuric Prakriti and eulogised the Daiva Prakriti. The Mahamaya Who is known as Durga Kali Chandi Bhadrakali Moha- laksmi etc is the embodiment of His exter- nal Potency as described in the Chandi and it is the thankless task of the Moha- maya to punish the Ashuras with Her all powerful weapons in the ten direction of the material world. She does not only cre- ate and maintain this material world but also she annihilates it according to the di- rection of the Almighty God. In the Bhagwat Geeta this Mohamaya has also been described as Daivi Maya and She is so Powerful that the Asuras cannot by- pass Her at any rate. The Ashura can get remission from the stroke of the Trishula of Mohamaya when he the Asura, surren- ders surrenders himself to Sree Krishna the Personality of Godhead. As Superin- tendent of the Material world the Moha- maya has been described Durga as the protectress of the great durga or fortress of the grand universes. She gives all the necessities for our existence but as soon as we become a Ashura like the Mohisha- suras, Ravanas, HiranyaKashipus, and in 10 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda later ages like the Mussolinis and such others for the exploitation of the material energy, the Durga Devi at once appears Herself with Her dreadful trident and be- gins to devastate the whole existence by such tribylations as war, famine, pesti- lence, or sometimes anihilation of a total existence. The methods of anihilation as are invented by the human brain such as the atomic bombs etc are also Her crea- tions but the deluded Ashuras, who are caused to act by the modes of Prakriti the material nature, do think themselves as the originator or inventor of such weap- ons. In that way a constant struggle is go- ing on between the Ashuras and the Prakriti and the Ashuras are thus being punished in different ways which the Ashuras cannot overcome by any method except by full surrender unto the Al- mighty God. In the Bhagwat Geeta the last instruc- tion is to surrender fully unto Him the au- thor of the Bhagwat Geeta but unfortunate men of demonic mentality misunderstood the teachings of Bhagwat Geeta as a method of sophistry and therefore the same Personality of Godhead Sree Krishna in the garb of a transcendental devotee preach the same techniques of Bhagwat Geeta i.e. full surrender unto the Almighty God or His different Potencies in a demonstrative way. The method of His demonstration was also very suitable. He inaugurated the Samkirtan Movement accompanied with melodious song which method has been found practically very effective amongst the masses. It is not possible for the masses to study the Vedanta or to undergo the difficult mystic processes especially in the Kali yuga when the general people is indolent, unfortunate, shortlived and always disturbed by physical and mental tribulations. So they the general mass of people are fallen in the estimation of the great saints and as such for them Sree Chaitanya Mohaprabhu is the only hope for deliverance. When Sree Chaitanya Mohaprabhu visited Baranashi He was in- vited to a philosophical discourse by the Prakashananda Saraswati a great giant scholar and Sannyasi of the Mayavadi or Shankar Sampradaya and discussion was made on the Vedanta Philosophy. Sree Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was victorious in that discussion and converted the great Sannyasi with his 60,000 followers to His cult of devotion and established His easy method of Samkirtan movement the most suitable method for the deliverance of the people in general. So on the occasion of the Lord’s 463rd advent day, I beg to suggest that in the ‘Gurumandal’ some such preaching method as was adopted by Lord Chaita- nya, may also be adopted for the benefit of the general people. The upashana of Yoga system as recommended by Shastriji may not be suitable for the people in general because hardly they will be able to adhere to the principles of Yoga and it may be as suggested by the Rajguru Shastriji that in the default of such Yogic method the per- former may fall ill and thus become doomed for his life. You have encouraged your mill em- ployees by establishing a recreation club and the amiable feelings of your employ- ees with the benovolent proprietors as has been exhibited in yesterdays function, may be supplemented by infusing them with spiritual inspiration by the simple method as done by Lord Chaitanya. In the last portion of His transcendental pastimes, Lord Chaitanaya lived in Puri-dham and worshiped the Lord Juggannath. By Some way or other your mill area has been named as the Juggan- nath Puri and I suggest that an actual tem- ple of Sri Juggannathji may be erected by the ‘Gurumandal’ for the benefit of these mill workers. If they simply make melo- dious kirtan of Rama or Krishna or both 1940s 11 combined and they are offered the Prasa- dam of Sri Juggannath surely they shall imbibe the spiritual tendency inherent in every human [PAGE MISSING] 49-3 Sth July, 1949 The Secretary The Board of Trustees of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial National Fund, New Delhi: Dear Sir, With reference to the invitation issued by your Board, for suggestions for the ad- ministration of the Fund, I beg to inform that Gandhiji’s memorial can fittingly be perpetuated by a continued effort to keep in motion his spiritual movements. I beg to suggest most humbly to your board that Gandhiji, minus his spiritual activities, is an ordinary politician. But actually he was a Saint amongst the statesmen and his basic principle was to overhaul the very foundation of present civilization by the novel philosophy of Satyagraha and Non- violence. The Congress institution is already in the waning for neglecting Gandhiji’s spiritual movement which was the main pillar of his universal popularity. By claiming the Indian state as secular we should not sacrifice Gandhiji’s spiritual movement which is different from com- munal religiosity. This fact is corrobo- rated by such personalities. as Sri Aurovindo and Dr. Radhakrishnan. You may do everything for commemorating his memory living but if you do not accel- erate his spiritual movement, his memory will be soon as dead as has been the lot of other politicians. Mahatma Gandhi, although he was al- ways busy with his political activities, never missed to attend to his daily prayer meetings in the evening. This rule he ob- served punctually even a few seconds be- fore his assassination . To give a fitting memorial to Mahatma Gandhi we must follow and propagate this particular line of spiritual activities and must daily read a chapter from Bhagwat Geeta in congrega- tion. Bhagwat Geeta is the world re- cognised philosophy of Indian culture and the favourite scripture of Mahatma Gan- dhi. He was a great follower of this great philosophy like other great saints and he was therefore a great Devotee of Rama and Krishna and for this only he was raised to such exalted position of a saint amongst the statesmen during his very life time. The Gandhi Memorial National Fund should be utilised for training up the people in general in this line of daily prayer in different places of Gandhi me- morial buildings and other similar impor- tant places. If systematic and principled direction is given to this daily prayer meetings fol- lowing the footprints of Mahatmajee, then we can help all concerned in subduing their evil propensities which are the causes of disruption in the human society at large. When spiritual instincts, which are inherent qualities in every living be- ing, are kindled by such daily prayer meetings, it is then only the people in gen- eral develop the qualities of the gods and the Trust Board of Mahatma Gandhi Fund should not miss this lesson of Mahatma- ji’s practical life. Such qualities being de- veloped people in general will give up the habit of imitating others but they will live and act freely boldly and rightly like Ma- hatma Gandhi and that will bring real freedom of life individually or collec- tively. Mahatmajee started another spiritual movement known as the Temple entry movement and he wanted to give this fa- cility to every one irrespective caste dis- tinction. The temple worship is another 12 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda kind of spiritual cultural movement for the benefit of the ordinary class of people. He himself installed the deity of Sree Radha Krishna at Noakhali when he was there and that is also very significant. The theis- tic temples all over India are actually the different centres as are the Churches and Mosques all over the world. These sacred centres were meant for diffusing spiritual education and by this process of spiritual culture the disturbed mind could be trained up in concentration for higher du- ties which every human being must do. By such education in practice can help man in realising the existence of God without whose sanction, according to Ma- hatma Gandhi, ‘‘not a blade of grass moves.” A part of this movement is the ‘‘ Hari- jan”. movement. The Harijan means the God’s man or the godly man as distin- guished from the satanic devils. How a man of satanic principles can be turned in to a God’s man is enunciated in the Bhagwat Geeta. The way of Karmayoga i.e. doing everything for God’s sake should be the principles of life. The ac- tivities of the general public may not be stopped but may diverted in the manner stated in the Bhagwat Geeta. By doing so any one in the world can be turned into a God’s man. Thus the Harijan movement started by Mahatma Gandhi should not be taken absolutely for the benefit of the Bhangis and so to say but it should be utilised for all who have the mentality of the Bhangis etc. By all the above process Mahatma Gandhi wanted to establish a greater hu- man society. His idea of a casteless soci- ety could only be given a shape under the guidance of the principles of Bhagwat Geeta. There are men of different menta- lities according to quality and work. There are different modes of Nature. These natural modes work everywhere in the world and different propensities de- velop by the psychological modes of Na- ture. The caste system is nothing but a classification of men according to such modes of Nature. It is not therefore bound up within the walls of India but this is cur- rent all over the world may be under dif- ferent names. This scientific and natural division of men should be accepted and people should be given chance to become Harijan with equal facilities for all. The Bhagwat Geeta gives a clear idea of doing this work and the Gandhi Memorial Fund should be utilised mainly for this purpose. Myself with a batch of sicere worker are ready to take up this work, and I shall be glad to have your reaction to my above suggestions. 49-4 Calcutta. 1st September, 1949 Secretary Shree Gita Mandir Trust, Gita Mandir Road, Ahmedabad. Dear Sir, I am so much obliged to your kindly conveying the blessings of Reverend Swamiji 108 Sri Srimad Vidyanandji Ma- haraj. I am very glad to learn that your pro- gramme for preaching in the foreign countries, is still under consideration. I beg to submit herewith my missionary views in respect of preaching Bhagwat Geeta and I shall be glad to know the reac- tion of your association in respect of my views: I believe that practical solution of world unrest is lying in the transcendental message of Sri Krishna the Personality of Godhead as given by Him lately in the Bhagwat Geeta. In this sacred philosophical discourse the Supreme Godhead declares Himself as the begetting Father, who impregnates 1940s 13 the seeds of living entities in the womb of Mother Nature who in turn gives birth to all varieties of living entities or species. So the plain truth is that the Supreme God- head the Father, the Nature material is the mother and all living entities are so many children of Almighty Father Godhead, and the mother Nature. The whole ar- rangement is just a family unit, and we should wonder as to why there is so much anomaly in this great universal family unit. The answer for this is also given in the Bhagwat Geeta. It is said that there are two classes of men in the creation. One class is called the Devas (godly) and the other class is called the Asura (demonic or godless). As sons of the Almighty Father Supreme Godhead, all individual living individuals have their respective indepen- dence. One can utilise this god-gifted in- dependence properly or improperly. When a living entity improperly uses god-gifted independence and apply such independence for sense-gratification without fulfilling the will or the plan of Godhead, he at once develops the de- monic qualitites in contact with the illu- sory Energy of Godhead and becomes a ful-fledged Asura. But one who do not misuse the God gifted independence and does not engage himself in the act of sense-gratification but fulfills the plan of the Godhead, continues to be a Deva or godly. In this act of sense-gratification the Asura children of Godhead forgets the plan of Godhead and therefore tries to ex- ploit the state of Godhead for their own benefit which is sometime centralised but sometimes extended. The gods or the godly sons of Godhead do not act like this and they are therefore distinguished from the Ashuras. The mother Nature or, the Material Energy of Godhead is, as she should natu- rally be, the most faithful mistress of Godhead. She does not tolerate the ex- ploitative motive of the Asura children of Her and for this he has to assume the role of Daiva Maya and takes at once Her grim trident and inflicts the weapon in the very heart of the Asura although the latter is her own son. The Asura is thus subjected to three-fold miseries and this is done ac- cording to the plan of Godhead. The Mother Nature, therefore chastises Her disobedient sons in order to bring them to the right path of fulfilling the plan of God- head. This process of chastisement is nec- essary for the benefit of both the Asuras and the gods alike. Such process re- establishes the plan of Godhead. The Asuras however when turned to act ac- cording to the plan of Godhead, at once become a God. When the Asura becomes a God the angry mode of Nature subsides [PAGE MISSING] 49-5 Calcutta 1949 Dear Sir, On the conclusion of the All Religious Conference held at Bombay very recently, I may submit that nothing practical has come out of it for uniting the different faiths of the world. The practical solution is lying in the transcendental message of Sree Krishna the Personality of Godhead as given by Him lately in the Bhagwat Geeta. In this sacred philosophical discourse the Supreme Godhead declares Himself as the begetting Father who impregnates the seeds of living entities in the womb of Mother Nature who in turn gives birth all varieties of living species. So the plain truth is that the Supreme Godhead is the Father, the Nature is the Supreme Mother and all living entities so many children of Almighty Father Godhead and the Mother Nature. The whole arrangement is therefore a family unit and one should wonder as to why there is so much anom- aly in this universal family affair. 14 Letters from Srila Prabhupada The answer for this is also given in the Bhagwat Geeta. It is said that there are two classes of children in the creation of God- head and Nature. One class is called the Daiva (godly) and the other class is called the Asura (demonic or godless). As sons of the Almighty Father Supreme Godhead, all the living entities have individual inde- pendence and when some of the children misuse the godgifted independence for their sense gratification and not to fulfill the plan of Godhead, they develop the de- monic qualities and become Asuras. But those who do not misuse the the godgifted independence for sense gratification they continue to remain as the Daivas. For sense gratification the Asura children of God- head and Nature forgets the plan of God- head and thus they begin to exploit and trouble the mother Nature and other obedi- ent children of Nature, for their own bene- fit sometimes centralised and sometimes extended. Those children who do not do like this are gods themselves distinguished from the Asuras. The Mother Nature is, as She should naturally be, the most faithful mistress of Godhead and She becomes angry for the behaviour of the Asura and thus assume the role of Daivamaya (generally known as the Mohakali, Durga, Bhadrakali etc.) and take at once Her grim trident and inflicts the weapon in the heart of the Asura who is also Her son. The Asura thus becomes sub- ject to threefold miseries and this is done according to the plan of Godhead as the mother has to chastise the disobedient son inorder to make him alright. This process of chastisement is necessary for the benefit of both the Asura and the Daiva sons inor- der to stop disorder in the great plan of Godhead. As sons as the Asura, however, surrenders unto Godhead as the obedient son and servitor of the plan of Godhead the Asura is turned into a Devata. The angry mode of Mother Nature at once subsides and she appears to such godly sons as the most affectionate Mother in the role of Jo- gamaya (commonly known as Lakshmi, Seeta and Radharani etc) So according to Bhagwat Geeta the whole trouble of the world is due to the in- crease in the number of the Asura and de- crease in the number of the Daivas. Who is a Daiva and who is a Asura is clearly defined in the Bhagwat Geeta. Thus the whole problem has to be solved according to expert advices and it is not possible to solve the world problem so easily as by holding occasional discussions by some who are already themselves under the in- fluence of the Asuric qualities. This should be done most scientifically which is above mistakes and illusion. As stated above the Asura, as soon as he surrenders to Godhead makes the whole problem solved. But unfortunately the to the threefold miseries of mother Nature and thus befooled by his repeated foolish activities will not easily surrender unto Godhead due to his long forgetful relation with the Almighty Fa- ther. It is a hard job therefore to turn the Asura to be a Daiva but the process has been made easy by the Personality of Godhead Himself in the Bhagwat Geeta. Mahatma Gandhijee took up this cause to begin with but he is gone without further progress in the matter. If we are intelligent enough we should again take up the matter more scientifically and do the job very nicely for the peace of the world. I have, according to the instruction of my spiritual master, chalked out a pro- gramme of work according to Bhagwat Geeta and I wish to discuss it personally with your goodself to give the plan a prac- tical shape. Will it be convenient for you to see me for this purpose? I am prepared to go to you at my cost at wait upon you if so desired by you. Awaiting your early re- ply and thanking you in anticiption. Yours faithfully, 1950s 1950s 17 50-1 Calcutta 12th December, 1950 Sriman Ram Krishna Dey c/o Day Bannernut Co. Waterloo St.-Cal. My dear Father Ramkrishna, My departure for Allahabad was post- poned due to the failure of my proposed tenants’ payment of Rs 500/=. The man promised to pay me yesterday but he said his cheque was dishonoured. To-day he has again promised to pay at 12 noon but I do not now count upon him. So either he pays or not pays, I must proceed to Alla- habad tonight positively otherwise the whole thing will be spoiled. Now as a helpless child looks upon his father, so I look upon you in the absence of my real father. Please therefore come in the evening, or to-morrow morning, en- quire —— if Ihave had the balance money (Rs 500/=) before going to Allahabad and if you learn that the tenant is not with money, please try to send me further Rs 500/= to my Allahabad ad- dress by T.M.O. or letter T.T. and write me the news. As the son cannot repay the father, so I cannot repay the obligation I owe to you, but my sincere blessings are always upon you because you have tried to help me in a very critical time. My life was miserable due to my family affairs and you have come to rescue me from the plight. May God help you in all respects. With my blessings, I beg to remain Yours affectionately, Abhay Charan De. 51-1 Allahabad 22nd June, 1951 Sri R. Prakash M.A. Officer in charge for Social Upliftment & Prohibition, Department N.P. Excise, Allahabad. Dear Sir, With reference to my personal inter- view with your honour, I beg to introduce myself as an humble disciple of His Di- vine Grace Sri Srimad Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswami Maharaj of Sree- dham Mayapore at Nadia the holy birth place of Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu the Divine inaugurator of ‘‘Sankirtan move- ment.” In the spiritual line of disciplic succes- sion from Sree Brahmajee who was first transcendental student of the Vedas down to my spiritual Master as above men- tioned, the Vedic culture is aimed at rees- tablishing the eternal relation of living entity with the Absolute Truth of Whom the living entities are but parts & parcels. Forgetfulness of that eternal relation is called Maya or illusion. This illusory en- ergy of Godhead is conducted under three modes of Nature under the name of mun- dane goodness, passion and ignorance. The whole material world is the creation of the External illusory energy of God- head and the living entities who forget the eternal relation with Godhead are so to say entrapped by Maya to undergo a con- ditional life under the modes of Nature. Out of eighty four lacs of varieties or species of life there are only four lacs va- rieties of human being. Out of these varie- ties of human being those who can acquire the the qualities of goodness out of the three modes of Nature, can also realise the proper self which is not the product of material world. The Vedic culture determines the stan- dard of social upliftment in terms of the degree of self-realization and as such the social division was estimated accordingly in terms of goodness (intelligence and higher learning), passion (martial spirit to lord it over the world), passion-cum- ignorance (the spirit of productivity) and ignorance (the spirit of passive accep- tance of being controlled by the laws of 18 Letters from Srila Prabhupada material nature). According to Vedic scriptures the present age is called Kali-yuga and almost all human beings are now degraded to the standard of the mode of ignorance and therefore the greater number of popula- tion are subjected to the pangs of the threefold miseries of material existence in the most horrible manner. In such rabid condition of human being the panacea is ‘Krishna Samkirtan’ rec- ommended in all scriptures. By this pro- cess, the forgetfulness of human being of his eternal relation with Godhead, is re- moved altogether. Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu as con- firmed Incarnation of Sri Krishna the Per- sonality of Godhead inaugurated this Sankirtan Movement and He reclaimed all conditioned souls from all ranks of life even from animal kingdom for being re- instated in the transcendental relation and activities of loving service to the Absolute Truth. Thakur Haridas who happened to appear in the family of a Mohammedan was one of His principle associates and His transcendental movement embraced all varieties of people beginning from the most erudite scholar Brahmins to the one who came in the family of Javana & Chan- dala. The specialty of His movement was that the fallen chandala did not remain a chandala after his initiation but he was made to rise up to the status of Vaishnava which is far above the status of Brahmin and other orders of life. That is the process of Social uplift- ment. And we follow the footprints of Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and His associ- ates who were all kind enough to raise the social status of every one concerned irre- spective of birth and occupation. Such process is not only transcenden- tal to all sorts of mundane speculation, but is very simple and innocent. The principle is a sort of curing a disease not only by ad- ministering proper medicine but also by supplying proper diet at the same time. The medicine is administered through submissive aural channel as ‘Hari Samkirtan’ which means (1) To sing ‘Bhajan’ songs glorifying the Almighty and His Pastimes. (2) To preach the teachings of Bhagwat Gita, Bhagwat, Ramayan, life of such saints as Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Tulsi- das etc. (3) To establish the philosophy of de- votional life as against fruitful action or dry speculation of empiric philosophy and meet the opposite elements with all logi- cal weapons. i.e the medicine of ‘Hari Sankirtan’ is ad- ministered by threefold action, namely by (a) melodious songs (b) by propaganda through press and (c) by propaganda on platforms. The diet portion of the transcendental treatment consists in the distribution of Prasadam. i.e. in all gatherings the audience should not only be sustained by mellodious musi- cal performances of Bhajan Sangat or by religious or Theistic discourses but they must be given some sort of remnants of food-stuff offered to God, as recom- mended in Bhagwat Gita. By this process of medical treatment people become gradually free from the following four kinds of addictions of sins namely— (1) Illegitimate connection with women. (2) Habit of animal killing. (3) Addiction to intoxication habits (4) Lure of gambling. The conditioned human beings are enwrapped in the above four special ___ due to the influence of kali yuga and by the transcendental treatment of Hari Sankir- tan the mirror of the heart of human being becomes cleansed of all the above men- tioned dusts. As soon as the dusts are 1950s 19 removed the human being is able to vi- sualise a clear conception of his real self and thereby he becomes free from the miseries pertaining to the body & mind, pertaining to the other living being and pertaining to the onslaughts of Nature. As followers of Bhagwat Gita we are firmly convinced that the on slaught of na- ture which is constantly being inflicted upon human society is a sort of police action by the laws of the Almighty and as soon as we surrender unto the Divine Will of the Almighty we not only become Ma- hatmas & saints but also the attack of un- kind Nature is vanquished at once. That is the teaching of Bhagwat Geeta and that is the demonstrative preaching of Lord Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. The real life be- gins when we are freed from the clutches of Maya which is nothing but a bewildered conception of materialistic life. Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu changed the face of it spiritually. In the Bhagwat Gita it is said that the common folk follows the leading men of society. At the present moment of demo- cratic age the Government of the State is conducted by the leading men of society. As such it is a good sign that the Govern- ment has taken up this work of social up- liftment as a right measure at a right time. And in order to give the scheme a right di- rection the government may take authori- tative hints from the scriptures like Bhagwat Gita. It is a common saying that example is better than precepts. The example of the leading men in the right direction will very soon be followed by the common men. Mahatma Gandhi set the example at his fag-end of life and his daily prayer meetings in the midst of gravest political occupation must be taken note of. So also in the Bhagwat Geeta. The Arjuna in the gravest moment of warfare learnt the teachings of Bhagwat Gita & he changed his personal opinion in the manner of the fighting. So the present process of human think- ing for material gains only has to be changed by an organized preaching work of Bhagwat Gita as done by Lord Chaita- nya not only for the benefit the people of India but also for all people in the world. Lord Chaitanya’s way of preaching is __ but a practical demonstration of the way of Bhagwat Gita. No amount of dry specula- tion by easy chair empiric philosophers will be able to implement the teachings of Bhagwat Geeta unless we adopt the practi- cal ways of Lord Chaitanya as above men- tioned. I think that immediately an organized body of devotees may be registered with suitable memorandum & articles of asso- ciation to embrace all kinds of people and then individual members must sacrifice a portion of their income for God’s sake. They should not only accept the amenities of life for nothing from the agents of God but they must now repay the debit by some personal sacrifice. That is the way of ‘Ja- jna’ as stated in the Bhagwat Geeta. If your department will give me proper encouragement, I can give a to this transcendental movement with a batch of worker who are mostly dedicated life for this cause. We do not want any- thing as personal renumeration. Because nobody can write up this transcendental transaction who will work for material gain. That is the secret of this movement. Every member & worker must learn to sacrifice for Gods’ sake that is the princi- ple of this movement. The Government shall only meet the initial expenses only to give a _____ of this movement and gradually this will be self supported by public sympathisers. I said in this connection Sri M.S. Governor of Bihar and had along interview on the subject. Dr. Rajendra Prasad also has his good 20 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda wishes for me. But I could not give the starting for financial difficulties, I want Rs 10,000/= to give it a starting. The general programme of work will be as mentioned above in terms of medical treatment by the Sankirtan movement. There is a batch of selfless worker mostly Brahmachary & Sannyasi at my disposal with whom I can give it a starting but ar- rangement has to be made for training stu- dents & selfless young men to further interest of the work. I am confident that many self- sacrificing young men will join us as soon as we begin the work. We have to work this scheme from village to village and town to town which we will have to de- velop by a gradual process. There are lacs & lacs of temples all over Indiaand these centres have to be uti- lised as local preaching centres. Members are to be recruited from all sections of people and I am sure when actual work is begun there will be no dearth of financial help. To begin with we can utilise the Gandhi Memorial centres all over the country for organising this Sankirtan movement and if we do the work properly Government may recommend the Gandhi memorial fund for helping this move- ment. I am already in negotiation with an American Federation and if proper work is done, such foreign federation will also help us. The thing is nowadays nobody is blind to any practical work. So as soonas people will find in it a practical utility, surely they will come & join with men & money. I wish that you may recommend this scheme of work to your government and the financial help may be awarded to the board of governors made according to the memorandum & articles of association and I shall work as the for the association throughout my life as or- dered by my spiritual master Om Vishnu- pada Sri Srimad Bhakti-Siddhanta Goswami Maharaj. Exhibition: - (1) Back to Godhead (2) Gurus visit (3) Rajendra Prasad’s letter (4) Education minister’s letter (5) Two (6) Memorandum of association (7) Magazines etc. 51-2 Allahabad. 14th September, 1951 Mr. Daniel Bailey Information officer American Reporter, 54, Queensway, New Delhi. Dear Mr. Bailey, I am in due receipt of your kind letter No. AR2295 of the 7th instant and I thank you very much for the same. You have written to say that ‘The United States and the American Reporter are keenly interested in bringing to-gether the East and the West closer on a philo- sophical and religious basis as well as ec- onomical and political. Certainly this attempt is not only a laudable thing but also a stepping stone towards the ultimate self realisation. When we speak of Philosophy it is something higher than the attempt of combining the East and the West. The whole cosmic situation is a complete unit and unless and attempt genuine is made for harmonising the whole disturbed sys- tem and partial attempt on our part how- ever large in magnitude will fail to approach the ultimate goal. Sages of India realised this by a perfect deductive process which descends on hu- man consciousness by the transcendental unbroken chain of disciplic succession— that material civilisation is a gigantic 1950s 21 temporary demonstration of a rabid pro- cess of sense-gratification. In that mode of civilisation the sense organs are give unrestricted liberty to gratify ever- increasing desires and the whole show of cultural advancement in science, art, education, trade, industry economics and politics is only varied activities of the senseorgans. While I appreciate contribution by Swami Nikhilananda of Ramakrishna Mission in New York towards ‘India American relation—A way to world peace.” It will not be out place to mention that comparative study & Philosophical ideas expressed by different religious heads will not only bring large contribu- tions to the said _______ but will also give the public at large a conviction of the Bha- gavad Gita. Smoke immanates from the fire under certain condition but it is a disturbing con- dition of the fire. We need the fire and not the smoke. The present smoky materialistic or sensuous civilisation has to be kindled into the fire of reality or Spiritualism. It is neither difficult nor impossible and is much more simpler than any other method. It is just a simple process of fan- ning the fire inorder to get rid of the dis- turbing smoke. Such fanning process is eternally the same and the one and the em- piric speculators have nothing to invent now in it. The great Philosophy of Bhagwat Gita is the authoritative book to guide us in this respect. We have nothing to drag init by forcing empiric interpretations. Let it be understood as it is because it is just like the Sun The Sun does not require to be helped by other light. So there is no need of interpreting Bhagwat Gita by any indi- rect meaning. Let us understand that Kurukshetra is Kurukshetra and it is still a sacred place of Hindu pilgrimage. The Pandavas are the sons of Pandu as it is stated in the history of Mahabharata. The Pandavas and the Kurus met at the battle- field of Kurukshetra and the philosophy of the Bhagwat Gita was told by the Supreme Personality of Godhead Sri Krishna. I wish that the American people may try to understand Bhagwat Gita in terms of its direct meaning. Let it not be unneces- sarily misunderstood by the empiric spec- ulative method for making a show of the vanity of so called learning without any living experience. Such academic erudi- tion has nothing to do with living reality. I wish to present an analytical study of Bhagwat Gita as it is. If your people can grasp the direct meaning of Bhagwat Gita it will be possible for us all to understand the basic principle of cosmic harmony. When that is done we shall know then that all adjustment of our existence is not only peaceful but an eternal bliss distinguished from the ephemeral sensual satisfaction. We shall then only know that here is world where there is no struggle for existence and every living entity, nevermind what it is, is fit to exist. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours truly, Abhay Charanaravinda Bhaktivedanta 51-3 Allahabad 2nd October, 1951 Mr. Daniel Bailey Information Officer American Reporter 54, Queen’s Road, New Delhi. Dear Mr. Bailey, I am in due receipt of your letter No. AR-2732 of the 26th ultimo, and Iam very glad to note your frankness to admit that you cannot go so far at present to de- seminate the basic principles of Indian philosophies. Indian philosophies mean generally the Sada Darshan or the six different schools of philosophers namely, 1. the 22 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Mimansha, 2. Sankhya, 3. Nyaya, 4. Mayabada, 5. Patanjal and 6. the Vedanta. The last named Vedanta Darshan was compiled by Sri Vyasa after a thorough refutation of all other five Darshans and therefore Vedanta is accepted by all Indian scholars and no body is recognised as bonafide who has no interpretation of this Vedanta Darshan. The Western philosophers mostly of the Sankhya school have less aquaintance with the Vedanta Darshan and philoso- phers like Kant, Mill, Aristotle or Scho- penhauer etc all belong to either of the above five Darshans except Vedanta be- cause limited human thinking power can- not go beyond that stage. But Vedanta Darshan is far beyond the limited mental speculation of the human brain condi- tioned by material nature. Unfortunately Sankara who belonged to the Mayavada school made a misinterpretation of the Ve- danta for his own purpose to convert the Buddhists in India. The Ramakrishna mission although it does not come out of the above six schools of philosophers—generally they prefere to call themselves as Sankarites or belonging tothe Mayavada school. Interpretations of Vedanta made by them are neither May- avada nor Sattattva. They have their own interpretation different from the Vyasa school of philosophers. Other Acharyas such as Ramanuja, Madhva etc and lately Sree Chaitanya— all belong to the original Vedantist school by direct disciplic succession. According to these Acharyas Bhagwat Gita and Sreemad Bhagwat are, in their original stand, the real commentaries of the Vedanta Sutras. The Mayavadins who do not actually belong to the Vedanta school have overcast a cloud unnecessar- ily over the Bhagwat Gita and therefore common people are misled by them. In other words they have no entrance in the Vedanta Darshan so to say. It is not at all necessary that an ailing person shall oblige all classes of physi- cians for the sake of their being medical practitioners only. The patient must be treated by such physician only who is able to cure him. Philosophical ways are practical and it is no use simply by indulging in specula- tion without any practical result just like to keep a cow without any milk. We must always seek a practical value from phi- losophy for the benefit of all. The mission with which you have started your service inspired me to help you as far as possible and I thought it fit to inform you that your mission can be well guided by the practi- cal philosophy of the Bhagwat Gita. If you do not wish to have it that is a different question. If you put up a programme ac- ceptable to one and all there is no neces- sity of patronising a particular ism. A common formula can be of practical use both for India or others. As such you can have practical solutions of all problems such as social, religious, cultural, politi- cal, economic as well as agricultural and industrial—from the Bhagwat Gita. It is possible only simply by assimilating it by direct perception. It is meant for all living being. Indirect perception will mislead far away from the truth and I am afraid many such indirect misinterpretations in a spec- ulative mood by various commentators, have done more harm than good to the hu- manity in general In all humility I beg to differ with you that all men should be free to make their choices and interpretations in all things. Less intelligent men are always guided by those who are superior in knowledge in all spheres of life. This principle is applica- ble everywhere but the guidance must be right and bonafide. But it depends always on the sweet will of the guided to accept this principle or reject it. I am glad that you have a copy of Gita with you. Apart from the Swamijee’s 1950s 23 learned interpretations—you can see for yourself what is written in the 18th Chap- ter 67th sloka. Empiric philosophers may call ita sophistry but is a fact substantiated after all human reasoning offered by Ar- juna. It is clearly said here that one should follow Sree Krishna alone. If any body makes his choice not to follow him surely he will have relative result. Bhagwat Gita is mostly read by almost all classes of people of the world but un- fortunately they are accepted in an inde- pendent choice of indirect interpretation. That is a deviation and for that reason only they cannot derive the direct benefit. My sincere thanks are due to you for the last portion of your letter under reply. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta All Glory to Shree Guru and Gouranga. 52-1 Allahabad 20th January, 1952 Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, President—All-India National Congress Working Commitee, New Delhi. Dear Panditji, Your article heading as “Let us be True to one another” published in the A.B. Patrika (Allahabad Edition) ‘D/30.12.51 attracted my attention and I read it over and over again. This article contains the nucleus of future activities of the human society in the spiritual realm and I have read in your statement about your deep thought on the onward march of human civilization. You have rightly said the following words in this connection viz. “So we search for new ways, new as- pects of the truth more in harmony with our environment. And we question each other and debate and quarrel and evolve any number of ‘isms’ and philosophies. As in the days of Socrates, we live in an age of questioning, but the questioning is not confined to a city like Athens: it is world wide”. There are two ways of answering such questions, I mean the deductive way and inductive way. Mortality of man is es- tablihsed by either of the above ways. In deductive way we take it for granted from reliable source, ‘Man is Mortal’. But in the inductive way we approach the same truth by our poor reasoning of ‘observa- tion and experiment’. By observation we can see that Gandhi dies, Fotilal dies, C.R. Das dies, Patel dies and therefore we conclude that man dies or, “Man is Mor- tal”. Then again in the same deductive way when we reason that man is mortal, and find that Jawaharlal is a man and thus conclude that Jawaharlal is mortal. Truth means Absolute Truth. Relative truth is conditional and when the condi- tions fail, the relative truth disappears. But Absolute Truth does not exist on con- ditions it is above all conditions. So when we speak of truth, we may take it for the Absolute Truth. And when we speak of approaching the Truth by new ways, we may take it for granted what we want to approach the Truth by the inductive way. Absolute Truth is described in the Ve- das as Satyam Param Dhimahee—the summum bonum. And from this Absolute Truth everything emanates. ‘Janma- dyasya Jataha”’. This Absolute Truth is described in the Vedic literatures as Sana- tana or Eternal. And the philosophy or science which deals in such eternal sub- jects is described as Sanatana Dharma. Therefore, we have first to find out the Eternal Absolute Truth by some new ways(?) and then we have to find out the new aspects of Absolute Truth in harmony with our present environment. The present environment is undoubt- edly different from the old. And if we compare the present with the old— we can 24 Letters from Srila Prabhupada very easily discover that 1. People in the present age are gener- ally shortliving. The average duration of life being 30 years or so. 2. They are generally not very simple. Almost everyman is designing and crooked. 3. They have no scope for high think- ing because they are perplexed with dif- ferent relative truths. 4. Unfortunate as they are in this age their problems remain unsolved for the whole life even though they are tackled by their leaders. They make the best effort to solve a problem but unfortunately the same becomes more acute and stringent. 5. And above all, people in this age are always distressed by famine, scarcity, grieves and diseases in an increasing ra- tio. In the old days life was not so much conditional and encumbered. The simple problems were then the problems of bread, clothing and shelter which were solved by the simplest process. By agri- culture they used to solve the bread, clothing and shelter problems and industrialisation was unknown to them. Thus they had no idea of living in big pala- tial buildings at the cost of sacrificing the boon of humanity. They were satisfied to live in the cottages and yet they were per- fectly intelligent. Even the famous Chanakya Pandit who was the Prime Min- ister of India during the reign of Chandra- gupta, used to live in a cottage and draw no salary from the State. Such simple habits did not deteriorate his high intelli- gence and dignity and as such he had com- piled many useful literatures which are still read by millions for social and politi- cal guidance. Thus the simplicity of Brah- manical culture was an ideal to the subordinate others of the society and in the Deductive way the subordinate orders, namely the the Ksatriyas, the Vaishyas and the Sudras would follow the instruc- tion of the cultured Brahmin. Such ways of approaching the Truth is always sim- ple, plain and perhaps the most perfect. The cultured Brahmin-order of the so- ciety would declare that there is God or Brahman and the Kshatriyas, Vaishyas and the Sudras who were less cultured than the Brahmins—would follow the later faithfully call it blindly or otherwise. By such faithfully following the subordi- nate classes would be able to save much time in the matter of arguing or reasoning for the existence of God at all, and still they would not be faithless. In the old days even a politician Brah- min like Chanakya would say that Vidwatamcha Nripatamcha Naiva Tulaya Kadachana Swadeshs Pujyate Raja Vidwar Sarbatra Pujyato. A really cultured learned fellow is far above a politician. Because a politician is honoured by the votes of his countrymen while a cultured and learned fellow is ho- noured everywhere all over the world. So we say that Rabindra Nath and Gandhi were never dependent for the votes of their countrymen but they were honoured all over the world for their cultural contribu- tion. The same Chanakya Pandit defined the standard of learning. The standard of learning had had to be testified by its result and not by the manner of University degrees. He said that one, who looks upon all women, except one’s married wife as mothers—all other’s wealth as the pebbles on the street and all living being as one’s own self,—is really learned fel- low. He never stressed on the point of standard of how many grammars, rheto- rics or other books of knowledge one might have gone through, or how many Doctorates of different Universities one might have been decorated with. At the present moment we know very well that a few men look upon other women, besides one’s married wife as mothers; very 1950s 25 few men will look upon other’s wealth as pebbles on the street and very few men will try to behave with other living beings as one wants to be treated oneself. The sages of old age discovered it by spiritual culture that man’s energy should be utilised only for spiritual realisation. Not to speak of Lord Sree Krishna who spoke the philosophy of Bhagwat Geeta near about 5000 years ago, we know that within 2000 years of human history no sages including Jesus Christ, prophet Mohammed, Lord Buddha, Acharya Shankara, Madhya, Ra- manuja or even Lord Chaitanya gave any im- portance to materialistic way of living. Material necessities were always subordi- nate to the spiritual realisation. They saw it that the bread problem, clothing problem and shelter problem are never solved by ma- terial activities because in the law of nature the elephant is given the whole jungle to eat and the little ant is given a grain of sugar to solve their respective bread problems and yet the animals remain hungry. It is not the question of a jungle or a grain of sugar that can solve our bread problem but it is the question of real food that can quence the hunger of human being and revitalise him to proper life. Human being therefore should not be encouraged to satisfy his unsatiated hunger like the giant elephant or the little ant but he should be trained up otherwise which shall provide for his real food. The wonderful temples, the mosques and the cathedrals of past centuries were built up to give them the real food and were not built up by blind or unquestion- ing faith. The were built up on full faith and reasoning which were based on the deductive process. The Vedas, the Bible or the Koran would ask the human being to make proper use of his conserved en- ergy in the transcendental service of God and unsophiscated men in the old days would follow such instruction unhesitat- ingly for realising the Absolute Truth. Such temples, mosques were therefore centres of high culture to provide real food to human consciousness. But in the present age in the absence of such high culture there is hardly any dif- ference between the temples, mosques and cathedrals and the high commercial buildings in a busy city. If the culture is to be revived it is quite possible to do it even in your parliamentary buildings in New Delhi or in the commercial buildings of New York. As the Socratesian ways of rea- soning is not bound up within the walls of Athens so also the Brahminical culture is not bound up within the walls of India. You can find out the nine prescribed qualifications of a Brahmin, the seven qualifications of Kshatriyas, the three qualifications of Vaishya and the one qual- ification of a sudra, world wide. You can therefore pick up Brahmins and other or- ders of society allthe world over. Gandhi ji although born in a Vaishya family, pos- sessed almost all the nine qualifications of a Brahmin and if possible we can find out such Brahmin in other parts of the World. One Brahmin-Gandhi Congressman is quite competent to guide its principle whereas thousand other sudra congress- men can only help it to break it up into pieces. Thus if we want to approach the Abso- lute Truth by new ways in harmony with present environment we should try to be true to one another in the qualified way of Brahminical culture. Only a dozen of real qualified Brahmins from all parts of the world should combine to guide the princi- ples of the Kshatriyas, the Vaishya and the Sudras all over the world. The Socratesian way of reasoning should be fully utilised because that makes the only difference between a human being and a beast. There is ample scope for this new way of ap- proaching the Absolute Truth and that will only solve the acute distressing world problem. If there is scarcity of such quali- fied Brahmins which I honestly think 26 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda there is, we should combine to evolve such Brahminical culture not by blind faith but by sound reasoning and question- ing. But all the same we must be sincere and thorough in our attempt. As an humble disciple of Om Vishnu Pad Sree Sreemad Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswamin, I wish to remain al- ways true to you and everyone. And if you sincerely be true to your forefather, I mean the Brahminical culture, you have the strength and capacity to save the world by presenting the Brahminical culture once again for consummation of the dis- tressed world. In such acts of your broad- ness of mind, I am always at your service. Awaiting your reply with interest, Yours Sincerely, 52-2 Allahabad 26th September, 1952 My Dear Ramkrishna, In reply to Srimati Suluxmona’s letter, I am sending herewith one letter for her which may be delivered to her. I came here to improve my lot but I see that my bad luck is impossible to be improved. For the last two years approximately I have met expenses from this business to the extent of Rs 600/= month. Calcutta, Allahabad, Ranchi High Court & Ry Journey altogether five different items of expenses have been so far met. But all of a sudden my sister opponent firms have de- signed to remove me from this place. By their trick the Drug Controller has sus- pended my business for the last one and a half month with the result that about Rs 1000/ = has been locked up & sealed and I have been put to shame by my servants. I require immediately Rs 300/= to meet the establishment charges without which I am much humiliated. I am trying my level best to reopen the business but still it will take minimum one week to come to the normal condition. I am awfully stranded and put to much shame. Will you kindly help me as you have done so many times? As a son has no shame to ask his father, so I feel no shame for it because there is no other help at the present moment. /f you can, please do send me T. M.O. for Rs 300/= & save my prestige & honour. | expect to return you this sum after a fort night. As soon as my business is opened I shall at once get back Rs 1000/=. May God bless you. Yours affectionately Father-in-law. N. B. I shall expect your T.M.O. by Mon- day next or latest Tuesday next. ACD 53-1 [True copy of the letter published in the A.B. Patrika on 7/7/53 at Allahabad un- der the heading ‘‘Hindu Missionaries” ] Sir— With reference to the letter of Sri Satish Asthana published in your columns of the 2nd instant, I have the honour to in- form all concerned through your es- teemed paper, that an association for missionary activities under the name and style “The League of Devotees” has al- ready been established recently with the same aims and objects as suggested by Sri Asthana and Sri Sitaram. The registered office of the above League is situated at the big spacious building ‘Bharati Bhawan’ at Sipri Road, Jhansi. Gentlemen interested in such cul- tural activities may ask from the. Founder Secretary, the prospectus of the mission (in Hindi or in English) with details of the institution. The matter is so important that it can- not be (now) set aside to be managed by the Sadhus and Sannyasins only but it must be taken care of by all responsible men. 1950s 27 The word * Hindu’ is somewhat foreign according to India’s spiritual or cultural conception. The exact word used for this purpose is ‘Sanatananv or the eternal. Sri ‘Bhagwat Geeta’ gives us the message that ‘Sanatan’ religion is meant not only for the ‘Hindus’, the Indians or all the hu- manity at large but also for all living be- ings on earth. It is wrong to interpret that Vedic religion (commonly known as ‘Hinduism’) is not proselytistic The proselytising method of ‘Bhagwat Geeta’ is to tum the face of all mundanners towards the transcendental ser- vice of the Absolute Personality of Godhead ‘Sri Krishna’ which process can only save them (the mundanners) from all calamities past present and future. The present Godless civilization has to be remoulded into Godly one and for this purpose all missionaries (Hindu or non- Hindu) who have regard for scientific prose- lytising method may join this ‘League of Devotees’ [PAGE MISSING] 53-2 Dear Mr. Bailey, I am in due receipt of your kind letter NR AR 2295 of the 7th instant and I thank you very much for the same. You have written to say that ‘The United States and the American Reporter are keenly interested in bringing together the East & the West closer together on a philosophical and religious basis as well as economic agricultural and political certainly this attempt is not only laudable but also a stepping stone towards the ulti- mate self-realisation. When we speak of philosophy it is some- thing higher than the attempt of combining the East & West. The whole cosmic situa- tion is a complete whole and unless an at- tempt genuine is made for harmonising the whole system any partial attempt on our part however large in magnitude will fail to ap- proach the ultimate goal. Sages of India realised it by a pertect deductive process which descends on hu- man consciousness by a transcendental chain of unbroken bonafide disciplic suc- cession that material civilisation is a tem- porary gigantic demonstration of a rabid process of sense gratification. The sense organs are given uncertain liberty to grat- ify their desires and the whole show of science education, trade, industry, economy and politics are but different spheres of activities in the realm of grati- fying the senses. Above these senses or sense-organs is a dymitric force which is subtler than the sense-organs and is known as the mind but acts in terms of thinking, feeling & willing. The empiric philosophers specu- lating on an imperfect process of induc- tion, generally indulge intellectual feats without knowing that behind the mind there is human intelligence which is able to analyse the process of psychology but is unable to find out the ultimate force or spirit behind their intelligence. So the spirit that conducts even intelli- gence is the primeval root of everything and there is an adjustment of spirit and matter as much as there is an adjustment of smoke & fire. The smoke is a condi- tional state of fire and therefore smoke is nothing but fire and yet we cannot com- pare smoke & fire on the same platform. Smoke emanates from fire but it is dis- turbing condition of fire. We need fireand not the smoke. The present smokey material or sen- sual civilization has to be kindled into the fire of reality or spiritual civilization. It is neither difficult nor impossible. It is just a simple process of fanning the fire in order to get rid of the disturbing smoke. The fanning process is eternally the same & one and the empiric speculators have 28 Letters from Srila Prabhupada nothing to invent new in it. It must be actu- ally a fanning in spiritualised process & nothing else. The great philosophy of Bhagwat Gita is the authoritative book to guide us in this respect. We have nothing to drag in it by foreign empiric interpreta- tion. Let it be understood as it is because it is just like the Sun. The Sun does not re- quire to be helped by the light. So there is no need of understanding Bhagwat Gita by indirect interpretation. Kuruksetra is Kuruksetra. Dharmakhetra is Dhar- makhetra. The Pandavas are Pandavas or the sons of Pandu and nobody else. The Pandavas & Kourabas not actually at the battlefield of Kuruksetra and the philoso- phy of Bhagwat Gita was told by the Su- preme Personality of Godhead Sri Krishna. I wish that your people may try to un- derstand Bhagwat Gita in terms of its di- rect meaning. Let it not be unnecessarily misunderstood by the empiric speculative method. For making others of the vanity of so called learning without any living experience. Such academic erudity has nothing to do with the living reality. I shall try to present an analytical study of Bhagwat Gita through the pages of your American Reporter in order to help the American people to understand Bhagwat Gita as it is. If your people can grasp the direct meaning of Bhagwat Gita it will be possible for us all to know the basic prin- ciple of cosmic harmony. When that is done we shall know that all maladjust- ment of our existence is not only peaceful but an eternal bliss distinguished from the ephemeral temporary sensual satisfac- tion. We shall then only know that here is a world where there is no struggle for ex- istence and every living entity, never mind what it is either a man or a beast is fit to exist. The enclosed peace of article & the soak is the first of a series of articles on the above subject to understand Bhagwat Gita by its direct meaning. [PAGE MISSING] 55-1 Ist form No-1. lst January 1955. The circular letter addressing as ‘Dear Brother’ to be sent along with the Prospectus by book Post 2nd letter on receipt of the reply of the 1st circular letter. (For inner members who are willing to live with us for spiritual upliftment) Dear Brothers, I am very much glad that you are will- ing to live with us. As already informed we have no restriction for admitting inner members, so far nationality, caste and creed are concerned. But the inner mem- bers will have to abide by the following rules, which are necessary as basic prin- ciples for spiritual upliftment. The inner members will not have (1) illegitimate women. (2) He shall not be adicted to intoxicat- ing habit. No member shall be allowed to smoke, chewing betel, drink tea etc. in- side the house. (3) He must be satisfied with ‘Prasa- dam’ which will be served to him & must be strictly vegetarian. No inner member shall be allowed to eat fish, meat, eggs, onions, etc. (4) the inner member shall not indulge in unnecessary indoor or outdoor games, sporting or gambling habit. The nominal boarding charges is Rs 25/ =. No charges for lodging. (S) the inner member must enroll him- self as regular member in the A. B. or C. Category. Members with voting power will have to pay the scheduled monthly subscriptions The lowest rate of subscrip- tion is Rs 10/= per month. Any one un- able to pay the membership fee may apply connection with 1950s 29 for free membership or lesser subscrip- tion for consideration of the Board of Executive members. The executive com- mittee can decide on it. (6) The inner member is requested to rise early in the morning before sun-rise and finish his morning duties for inner & make cleanliness. And after finishing such duties, he will have attend to ‘Mangalaratric’ service to be held in the temple of ‘Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu & Radha Govinda”. (7) The inner members will be served with Prasadam after ‘Mangalaratric’ (mostly some milk-preparation) (8) After partaking the ‘Mangalara- trik’ Prasadam, he shall attend the morn- ing class of ‘Path Kirtan’ in which chanting of the holy name of God along with musical instruments, will be sung before and after reading of “Srimad Bhagwat Geeta’ ‘Bhagbatam’ etc. This function will continue from 6 to 8 in the morning. (9) After this a cup of milk along with other foodstuff will be served to the inner members as break fast. (10) After breakfast the member can devote himself, for studying book in this connection which will be supplied to him by the League. (11) At eleven noon, the ‘Bhogaratric’ service will be done in the temple and the members will be requested to attend this ceremony after bath, (12) Just after ‘Bhogaratrik’ function, the members will be served with ‘Prasa- dam’ which shall consist of the following items: (1) Rice, (2) Dal, (3) Chappatis with ghee (4) 2 curry (5) Bhija (6) Khi- cheries (7) (8) Sauces (9) Pam- par (10) miscellaneous. (13) After taking ‘Prasadam’ in the noon the member may take rest from one to three in the after noon. (14) At three in the after noon there will again ‘Baikali’ ceremony in the tem- ple which the members will be requested to attend. And again at the end of the ‘Baikali’ ceremony at about 4, the mem- bers shall be served with Prasadam con- sisting of a cup of milk & some fruits. (15) the member shall then attend the Path Kirtan class from 5 to 7 in the eve- ning as is done in the morning. (16) from 7 to 8 pm there will be ‘San- dhyaratrik’ ceremony in the temple & the members will be requested to attend to this. (17) At nine in the night, there will be again Bhogaratric ceremony which mem- bers will be requested to attend. After this ‘Prasadam’ will be served consisting of chappatis or rice with dal, currys & some milk preparation at the end. (18) From 10 to 4 at night the members shall take rest for the night, (19) After six months of living or ear- lier as the case may be the members will be expected to be initiated in the devo- tional service of Theism or Vaishnavaism. (20 For such initiation the member will have to accept ‘Diksha’ according to the rules of the Goswamins & just become a qualified ‘Brahmin’ (21) Initiated members shall observe the ‘Ekadashi Brata’ twice in a month and on that day he will be allowed to take only fruits & none of the cereals. (22) Initiated members shall adere his body with the marks of Vaisnavism; (23) He shall chant the holy name of God systematically & regularly according to the rules of the Goswamins. (24) He shall try to worship in the tem- ple after learning the art from another co- worker. The initiated member is converted & accepted as bonafide Brah- min & thus he can enter the temple. (25) He may enhance his spiritual education taking lessons from Geeta, Bhagwat, Science of Devotion, Lord Chaitanya etc. and prepare for the ex- amination of Bhakti-Shastra, Bhaktisid- dhanta, Bhaktivedanta etc. 30 Letters from Srila Prabh updda (26) If he desires to be a preacher, he will be trained up in that way & will be given the titles of es according to preaching capacity. [PAGE MISSING] 55-2 Allahabad 4th February, 1955 The Registrar of Joint Stock Companies Uttar Pradesh—Lucknow. All Glory to Sri Guru and Gouranga. Dear Sir, With reference to my interview with your honour on the 3rd instant, regarding registration of the Memorandum of As- sociation and Rules and Regulations of the League of Devotees (alias Sarba- bhouma Bhagwat Samaj), I beg to inform you that I have deposited the fee RS 50/ = (Rupees Fifty only) in the Imperial Bank of India Ltd, Lucknow and beg to hand you the following as advised by you. (1) The Memorandum of Association clearly signed by the present members of the League of Devotees. (2) The Rules and Regulations duly signed by thepresent members of the League of Devotees. (3) Deposit Challan No 81D/4 3/3 for Rs 50/= Kindly acknowledge receipt of the above and do the needful at your earliest convenience. All correspondence in this regard may be addressed to the undersigned in his present address as above mentioned. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours faithfully-- A.C. Bhaktivedanta Enclosures—3. 55-3 New Delhi 16th September. 1955 My dear Shripad Gosvami Maharaj, Please accept my respectful obeis- ances. I am in due receipt of your kind let- ter dated the 14th instant and I have noted the contents very carefully. I am glad that you have come back to Calcutta from the inundated area of Orissa and am more glad to learn that your holiness is trying to return to Delhi for creating a peaceful at- mosphere here. You will be glad to learn that day be- fore yesterday morning at about 9 O’clock Sri N.C.Chatterji the big advocate and President of the Hindu Mahashava came to our Sangha with his secretary unex- pectedly. It happened that about a fort- night past we had a Path Kirtan function at his residence at 7-B, Pusa Road and in that evening we had some talk about Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. He appeared to be wellversed with the matter of Shri Chaitanya Charitamrita. I therefore in- vited him to come to our Sangha and he replied that he would try. After a week I reminded him again by letter and in re- sponse to my letter he camc here all of sudden. Practically all the members were out at that time and myself along with two other Brahmachari and Brindaban re- ceived him. He was acquainted with our activities and was offered Prasadam which he accepted and took it with him. I have asked him to come again when your holiness come back. Regarding your instruction for Spd Akinchan Maharaj, I have intimated him about it and it is learnt that he has asked Shripad Bonbehariji to bring along with him the old receipts when he is coming to Delhi. Your note for Shriman Keshavanandaji has also also been noted by him. Allthe press matters for September is- sue have been duly handed over to the 1950s 31 Kapoor Art Press but till now we have not got any proof from them. I sent for it this morning and they have promised to de- liver it from tomorrow. It is learnt from Keshavanandaji that they have promised to finish the task by the 25th of this month. I have noted your remark about the cover of the monthly and I have already suggested so many things to Shripad Ra- mananda Prabhu for apprisal. Shripad Ramananda Prabhu and many others along with me want to see the paper just fit for the foreign countries. In that case we must get it printed on nice paper in a very good upto date Press. It all depends on the expenditure that we are able to meet but the ideal must be for its many sided desir- able improvements. When you come back we shall see to it because in your absence it is not also possible to change the press. When we cannot change the press imme- diately it is useless to change the paper or the cover. The suggestion made by some friend that the paper may be printed from Cal- cutta is alright. But my suggestion is that either in Calcutta or in Delhi we must have our own press with good equipments so that we may be able to broadcast the message of Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in all the important languages specially in Hindi and in English. Hindi is meant for all India propaganda while English is meant for world wide propaganda. This day we have received two copies of ‘Gaudiya Darshan’ from Shripad Shridhar Maharaj's Math at Nabadwip. The starting is very good and I have quite appreciated the endeavour of Shridhar Maharaj even though very late. It is better late than never. He has a very good assist- ant in the person of young Govinda Ma- haraj and I think it is a good attempt. Regarding Typewriter machine I un- derstand that Shripad Ramananda Prabhu is unwilling to part with it. Of course in his head office of the institution he re- quires one for so many correspondences but here also in the ofiice of Shri Sajjana- toshani Patrika which purely in English one machine is absolutely needed. Here all the presses do want tpe written copies so that the matter may be promptly exe- cuted. Some of the presses are ready to finish the whole printing work within 4 or 5 days if the whole matter is given in dis- tinct type written papers. This machine was hired and I have already informed you about it. We have in the meantime type written three copies of all the addresses so that for three months we can simply paste the addresses on the covering wrapper without taking any trouble of clerical job. Any way we shall see toit when you come back if possible with the machine. Yours atfectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 55-4 New Delhi 16th September, 1955 His Holiness Shripad Bhakti Sundar Govinda Maharaj Shri Chaitanya Saraswat Math Kolergunj P.O. Nabadwipa, Dist. Nadia (W.Beng.) My dear Shripad Govinda Maharaj, This morning I received two copies of your ‘Gaudiya Darshan’ and I was very glad to see its appearance. When I was at Mathura I heard from Spd. Keshav Ma- haraj and so also I heard it from Spd Go- swami Maharaj that His Holiness Shripad Shridhar Maharaj is going to publish ‘Gaudiya Darshan’ and to-day I find it ac- tually in hand. I cannot but offer my con- gratulations to your holiness. Because I know if anything has been done it is due to your energy. I can understand now why Shripad Shridhar Maharaj bestowed all his mercy upon you. He rightly found in you some dormant energy for future 32 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda action and we can see that it is now fructi- fying duly. I have read with great interest your ar- ticle especially the one which is named as ‘CHALAR PATHE’. It is not only very amusing but also instructive. Simple dry philosophical arguments will not be ap- pealing now a days to people in general. They will like to read such articles as writ- ten by you with greater relish. In this arti- cle Icanfind out that you have really some parts and in time you can become a great transcendental humorist in the art of jour- nalism. You have complete mercy of your Divine master and you can depend on his blessings for your future improvement. I sincerely wish you all success- Undoubt- edly you are now in the highest order of Varnashram Dharma but we cannot forget that you belong to the category of our af- fectionate sons. We cannot forget all such filial love for you and when we see that you are improving in all respects it gla- dens our heart. I have just written a letter to Shripad Gosvami Maharaj and in that letter the following statements have been carried to him him. The wordings are as follows:- “This day we have received two copies of Gaudiya Darshan from Shripad Shridhar Maharaj’s Math at Nabadwipa. The starting is very good and I have quite appreciated the endeavour of Shripad Ma- haraj although very late. It is better late than never. He has a very good assistant in the person of young Govinda Maharaj and I think it is a good attempt.” Your poem on Vasita is also good. All these show that you have good tact and may God help you more and more. Shri- pad Shridhar Maharaj’s article on Gaudiya Darshan is philosophical and if he so desires I can get it translated into En- glish by myself and get it published in the Shri Sajjanatoshani Patrika. I understant that Shripad is now out on pilgrimage and you can let me know his opinion when he comes back or earlier according to your convenience. Hope you are well. Brindaban wanted to live with me and so he has come here from Calcutta just a fewdays before. Where is Madhusudan Maharaj? Please convey my dandabats to all the Vaishnavas. With my regards for you all. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 55-5 New Delhi 19th September, 1955 My dear Shripad Gosvami Maharaj, Please accept my respectful obeis- ances. I hope in the meantime you have re- ceived my last letter. This day I had been to the office of the Director of Postal Ser- vice along with our friend Shri Horendra Nath Shome and Shripad Akinchan Ma- haraj. Some of the would be customers whose addresses were given for registra- tion denied to be our paid subscribers and this was against the registration certifi- cate. We had some talks with the Asst. Di- rector who was a perfect gentleman. Heron Babu being one of them he told that he is also a customer. When he wrote in black and white his version the Director agreed to register it and I am glad to in- form you this day our ‘Shri Sajjanatoshani Patrik’ is registered in the postal depart- ment as a monthly newspaper under regis- tration No.D797. Just on the way I dropped in at the Kapoor Art Press and I gave him the No. for printing on the cover. Our posting date has been fixed up on the 26th and 27th inst. I do not know if the press will be able to finish the job by that date. I have already given him the pres- sure and I shall see that it is duly published by the above date and posted. If not then we will have to make another application for changing the date of posting. I understand that you have written to 1950s 33 Shripad Akinchan Maharaj to print the paper 500 only for September. In this con- nection I asked the press if they will re- duce the charges for this less number of pringting. He said that the charges will be same. I think that we should print it as usual i.e. 1000. Akinchan Maharaj has secured contribution of three reams of pa- per (24lbs) and the postal charges will be only 1/4th of the last month. So why for the matter of saving some papers we shall not print the full number. In my opinion we should print more than 1000 copies every month and distribute them in large scale. I thin you will reconsider the matter and let me know your futher opinion. The printing will begin from dayafter to- morrow and you will kindly reply this just on receipt of it. I hope by the time this letter reaches you you have had returned from Na- badwipa. Hope you are well. Yours affectionately, A.C.Bhaktivedanta 55-6 New Delhi 5th October, 1955 My dear Shripad Gosvami Maharaj, Kindly accept my humble and respect- ful dandabats. I am in due receipt of your letter of the while you’re staying at Howrah Goudiya Math. I hope by the time this letter reaches your hand you might have come back to calcutta. I was anxiouly awaiting your articles for October. Today is the Sth and I thought that by the 15th of this month the paper might be be out. So please send the arti- cles per return of post and oblige. I have noted your instruction for reviewing Ne- taidas Brahmachary’s book. The other book is not available from Shri Keshavanadaj}. Iam glad that you have purchased one model Nol6 Remington Typewriter and I think you have done right in doing so. To conduct the SajjanToshani Patrika it is ab- solutely necessary. This typewriter is to be returned to-day because the period of one month expires to-day and as you are bringing very soon the purchased one, I shall return it today with out further rental expenses. I wish to see this paper just to the stan- dard of "Illustrated Weekly” with numer- ous pictures inorder to make it a very popular literature and for this I wish to move myself to secure subscribers as well as advertisers. I wish to visit good busi- nessmen, insurance companies and Govt. officers in this connection. But I have no proper dress at all. I want two set of good dresses inorder to take up this reponsibil- ity and I shall be glad to have you decision on this matter. It is my heart’s desire that this paper is improved to the highest ele- vation. I am glad that Shripad Shridhar Ma- haraj has advised you to purchase a land at Mayapur. Yes we we must have a temple at Mayapur. If every one of us posess a tem- ple there, the importance of Shridham Mayapur will automatically increase and we must have this ideal in view always. I am also glad to learn that you are securing some good land on long lease from the Port commissioners for our Howrah Math. Howrah is a good place for preach- ing our cult and it behoves that we have a decent Math there. Akinchan Maharaj has received your cheque for Rs400/- and he is preparing to start for Joypur as early as possible. Awaiting your early reply. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta N.B. Some non-Bengali gentlemen are demanding my Hindi edition of Chaitanya Charitamrita. They are prepared to pay any price for this (Rs 32/ or Rs 25/- ) your Holiness has already seen the manuscript. I wish to get it ‘out part by part. The first 34 Letters from Srila Prabhupada part will cost near about Rs 600/=. If this part is sold out, The other parts will auto- matically come out. I would request you to invest this initial Rs 600/= for this pur- pose under any arrangement you like. I shall be glad to receive your reply on this point. I hope you will give this starting & oblige. ACB. 55-7 Delhi 13th December, 1955 Sri R.N. Aggarwal MA. President D.M. Committe Town Hall, Delhi. Dear Sri, Re: your secretary’s letter No.D.O. 807/ P.T. the League of Devotees: D/22/11/55 With reference to the above and my subsequent interview with you, I beg to inform you that it has been now decided to hold a preliminary meeting of the above league in the city first to discuss the aims & objects. Myself, Lala, Girdhari lal and, Advocate Bipinchandra Misra, three will be convenors. I request you to preside over this meet- ing and give me some time at your con- venience so that the meeting can be arranged accordingly. In this meeting all the members of your committe as well as other respectable residents of old Delhi will be invited to give it an initiation. I hope you will kindly accept it and let me know your decision, so that further ar- rangement can be done. Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta. 55-8 Names of the Executive members of the Delhi section of The League of Devotees. (1) Rai Bahadur Pandit Narain Das, 21 Pusha Road, N. Delhi (2) Rai Sahale Seth Girdharilal, Bag Di- war, Delhi (3) Seth Baseswar Nath, 9 Barkhnkakau Road, N. Delhi (4) Sat Narayan Gurvala, Malibara, Delhi (5) Rai Sahale Ram Saran Das, 11 Ra- managar, N. Delhi (6) Shri Makhanlal Gupta, P Delhi (7) Shri Bipin Chandra Misra (8) Lala Maha Sankar, Ramanagar. (9) Pandit A.C. Bhaktivedanta (10) Lala Mohanlal Advocate. c/o Girohi- lal (11) Shri Ram Prakash, — — , Chawn Bazar (12) Shri Direndra Kumar, Siddhomal & Sons. Chawn Bazar Dear Sirs, With reference to the inaugural meet- ing of the Delhi section of the League on 22/12/55 the gentlemen named above have been selected to be the executive members. The immediate programe of work is to find out some suitable place for the central office as also to provide the place of residence for the workers. When I was at Jhansi, I was provided with a big palatial building to live in asso- ciated with 40 workers who are being trained up for intinerary preaching work. The expenses were about Rs 1000/= per month. I approached the Govt for help but even after one year no definite decision could be arrived at by the Govt and the matter is still pending. Jhansi was a poor place + I shifted to Delhi. My associates were therefore dis- bursed & I came to Delhi to give it a new life. Delhi is the only centre where from this cultural movement could immedi- ately be given effect because it is the cen- tre of international political, social educational & cultural movements. What I want to do immediately are as follows: — 1950s 35 (1) To hold consecutive meetings at dif- ferent Mohallus & houses of Delhi for im- pressing the ideas of the mission. (2) To give training to at least 7 to 10 edu- cated young men in the parampara les- sons of Bhagwat Geetu’’ and then to * Brahma Sutra,” Bhagwat & Chaitanya Charitamrita (3) To publish an English monthly paper to sell specially to the English knowing heads of the society and to get printed some relative literatures A meeting of the executives has to be called for discussing the above subjects but before doing so I wish that you all gen- tlemen may kindly fill up the typed mem- bership forms enclosed herewith—so that following your foot prints other members of the public may members of this institution in large numbers. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours faithfully, For the League of Devotees (Reg. J.S.) A.C. Bhaktivedanta Founder Secretary To of the following immediately (1) Letter Heading (English) (2) Visiting Cards (English) (3) Japa Appeal (English & Hindi) (4) Membership forms (English & Hindi) (5) Rubber Stamps 55-9 Dear Brother. I am in due receipt of your kind en- quiry and I am glad that you wish to be- come a member of the League of Devotees for learning the science & tech- niques of Theism or spiritualism of the highest standard. The Prospectus is en- closed herewith please find & decide tor yourself for becoming a permanent mem- ber of this noble institution. The membership fees are mentioned below which is the extract from the Leagues registered rules & regulations. Rule 1. ‘‘The general body of the League will consist of members of the four orders of life namely (a) Brahmacha- ries (b) Grihasthas (c) Vanaprasthas (d) Sanyasis or ‘‘Tyagis”’. Rule 4. “The members will be of three classes defined as class A, B and C in ac- cordance with the membership fees paid. (a) Those who will contribute Rs 500/= and above per month will belong to the “A” class. (b) Those who will contribute Rs 50/= and above per month will belong to the “B” class. (c) Those who will con- tribute Rs 10/= and above per month will belong tothe **C” class.” Rule 16. “Every member is entitled to one vote either in person or by proxy at a general mecting held for its elections of the members of the Executive Committee or for any other purposes.” If you think yourself unable to pay ei- ther of the above mentioned membership fees per month, then you can apply for free membership or for a lesser value of monthly subscription for consideration of the Executive Committee, who will de- cide on the subject. But if you become preacher member, in that case you will have to pay once Rs 10/= only for the degree of “Bhakti Shastry” which will be awarded to you by registered certificate of degree for your becoming preaching member of the League and doing the necessary preach- ing work on behalf of the League. The preaching work is conducted as follows: (1) As soon as you get the certificate of degree of “Bhakti Shastry” at once you become a bona fide preacher of this insti- tution and for this you will have to read “Bhagwat geeta” regularly. (2) As you go on reading ‘Bhagwat Geeta’ question will arise in your mind for so many teachings in that Book & you are at liberty to ask us for answers of those questions which will be re- 36 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda plied to you very clearly for your understanding. (3) Some of the general questions are already answered in different pamphlets & one of them is sent herewith for exam- ple and your understanding. (4) These questions & answers you will have to preach to others, so that both yourself & your audience will be bene- fited by that process. (5) If you cannot go to others outside your hearth & home, you can do the preaching work amongst your family members only and in this meeting your other friends, neighbors & relatives also can join. (6) Hold this meeting regularly for one hour in your home or any other suitable place near about your home, and chant the hymns or slokas of ‘Bhagwat Geeta’ with reverence & devotion. If possible the reading of Bhagwat Geeta may be pre- ceeded & followed by a congregation chanting of the holy name of God as men- tioned below—Hare Krishna. . . . Hare Hare. (7) Now relevant questions that may be arising out in the meeting may either be answered relevantly & just according to the authority of “Bhagwat Geeta”. But if it is found difficult the ques- tion may at once be referred to us and it will be very nicely & clearly answered by us for clear understanding of all concerned. (8) Some of the audience also may be interested in becoming a preaching worker of this League & we shall be glad to substain him in the same way as we shall be dealing with you. We are inter- ested more in preaching members than in the sleeping members. The motto of preaching shall always be aimed at the ultimate goal of life. The ulti- mate goal of life is to re-establish our lost relation with Godhead who is the Abso- lute Whole, and we all living entities are His parts & parcels. We have forgotten our relation with Godhead from time immemorial by somehow or other & due to our forget- fulness of the relation, we are roaming life after life in different species of bodies which are 84 lacs in number. This process of transmigration from one body to another after death is a of disease of the living entity & the chance of curing the disease is pos- sible very effectively in this human form of life. The value of this human form of life is therefore immense and a moment lost of this life means a loss of immense value. Do not therefore neglect the time that you have been allotted by the laws of Nature and utilise it fully—not in the matter of animal life but in hu- man life. Eating, sleeping, fearing & sense gratifying process are meant for the animal portion of our life, but as human being we have got the special prerogative for searching out the cause of our threefold miseries & to rectify it in this very life without any further loss of time. The League of Devotees stand to serve the humanity in this spirit & the preaching member’s cooperation in this noble act of human behavior will reciprocally benefit both the League and its preaching mem- bers. The highest benefit that is possible to do to the humanity is this act of preaching for receiving the Divine Consciousness of the living being. By doing so, we do not only send a living entity back to home & back to Godhead but at the same time we ourselves also go back to home back to Godhead. Rise up to the occasion of this preaching work & be a real benefactor to the people in general & your family mem- bers in particular. [PAGE MISSING] 1950s 37 A a 56-1 Delhi 21st November, 1956 Letter to the President His Excellency Dr. Rajendra Prasad President Indian Union, Rashtrapati Bhawan, New Delhi (Through His Private Secretary Sri Viswanath Varma) May it please your most exalted Ho- nour, Kindly accept my humble obeisances. It is the custom of India from a time im- memorial that a citizen of the state would approach the king, to express his griev- ances for redemption and the king would very kindly consider his case as duty bound and give him necessary relief by the royal judgement: At the present moment, your excel- lency is seated in the position of the king by the will and Grace of the Lord and as a true Vaishnava I must accept your excel- lency as the representative of the Supreme Lord Shri Krishna, as He has expressed Himself in the pages of Bhagwat Geeta. As such I beg to lay before your most ex- alted honour, the following few lines for favourable consideration and do the need- ful in pure consciousness. Your Excellency is the Representative of Shri Krishna by authority and I hope Shri Krishna will direct you from within in the matter of my transcendental service to Him. I beg to submit herewith that by the Grace of Shri Krishna through His mercy personified—my spiritual master, I have realised it most thoroughly that going “Back to Godhead” is the highest privi- lege of mankind and that is the supreme perfection of human life. Unfortunately, the present day human civilization is very much attracted with the beauty of Apara Prakriti the illusory material Nature and as such they are over- powered by a demoniac form of propen- sity in the atheistic set up of civilization manifested in the matter of sense gratifi- cation. This tendency is dangerously harmful tothe real progress of life. The aim of life should be to make a sin- cere effort to go “Back to Godhead” but contrary to this, the tendency is to go back to hell or in the cycle of evolutionary ani- mal life as it is described in the 16th chap- ter of Bhagwat Geeta. Please therefore save them from the great falldown. Believe me or not, I have got the clue of going ‘‘Back to Godhead” just after leaving my present material body and in order to take along with me all my contemporary men and women of the world, I have started my paper ‘‘Back to Godhead” as one of the means to the way. Please do not think of me as an won- derful or a mad man when I say that I shall go “Back to Godhead” after leaving my present material body! It is quite possible for everyone and all of us. In the Bhagwat Geeta it is said very clearly that whosoever may adopt the spe- cific principle of accepting Shri Krishna the Personality of Godhead, he will be able to achieve the highest transcendental goal of life, —never mind what he is either a born untouchable, a fallen woman, a la- bourer or a man dealing in rupees annas pies. His being so, what is there difficulty for a pious “Brahmin” and devoted king for going ‘Back to Godhead’? Everyone should therefore adopt this principle of going ‘Back to Godhead’ in order to get released from the world, of miserous, with temporary existence. This fact is corroborated by Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu as the practical demonstrator of Bhagwat geeta and as the most magnanimous incarnation of Shri Krishna—the Personality of Shri Krishna Chaitanya has made the path of going ‘Back to Godhead’ so easy for every one that even a boy of the world can swim across the ocean of religiosity, although it 38 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda is injected with so many dangerous ani- mals ready to devour up a fallen person in that great massive water. I have simply adopted the easy method of Shri Chaita- nya Mahaprabhu just suitable to the mod- ern people in general. As such I am feeling as sure of going ‘‘Back to God- head” as I feel without any doubt after taking my dinner that I have eaten to my satisfaction. This feeling is a necessary concommittant factor of the great science of devotional service in the approved line of Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. I am therefore very eager to broadcast the secret of my success to all men and women of the world as a natural conse- quence and I am seeking your excellency’s help and co-operation in this great attempt of transcendental service. I am enclosing herewith 12 (twelve) copies of ‘Back to Godhead’ (I to XII) for your excellency’s reference. If possible kindly go through them all and I am sure that your honour will understand me right about my assertion. If it is not so possible, your excellency can kindly give a glance over the head lines only, and I am sure that will also give your excellency an idea of my definite assertion. To make a world wide propaganda for this most essential service to humanity, it is necessary that your excellency will stretch the helping hand necessary in this matter, as your exhalted honour is person- ally fit also to do this job. Although the method is very simple for universal adop- tation, it is not possible for me to express in this letter all the words that I wish to tell your honour. As such, /am seeking an in- terview with your honour herewith. When your excellency will see personally the pa- pers and programme of work about my bonafides, I am sure your excellency will be interested in co-operating with me. There is immense work to be done so far India’s spiritual asset is concerned and I think the Govt. may take up the matter sci- entifically for the good of all men. India’s specific culture demands that there should be a ministry of spiritual affairs to save the great culture of ‘‘Bharatvarsa’?. I am crying alone in the wilderness at the present moment. So please help me in this noble cause and oblige. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply, I am, Yours in the service of the Lord, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 57-1 Bombay 18th February, 1957 Sri K.M. Munshi, President of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay Governor’s Camp, Lucknow-U.P. Dear Sir Munshiji, Please accept my greetings. I am thankful to you for your granting me an in- terview and accepting a few copies of my paper ‘‘Back to Godhead” which you have promised to go through at your lei- sure hours. And on reading the paper, I hope, you may be able to make an esti- mate of my mission in the matter of the Bhagwat Gita. I heard it through reliable sources that you are a great admirer of the Bhagwat Gita and your Vidyalaya has a special de- partment for preaching its philosophy. I came to Bombay from Vrindavan to co- operate with you, because there is no dif- ference between the missions of both yourself and myself. I also attended your meeting of the 16th instant on the subject of “What is the matter with the world?” I was very glad to know your opinion about it and so farI re- member that you concluded to go back to Godhead which only can save the world from a disaster of civilization. 1950s 39 Actually that is the position. Men have forgotten their eternal relation with Sri Krishna, the Supreme Personality of God- head. Some of them are so foolish as to think that everyone of them are so many Sri Krishnas (?) or Gods although we know that God is one, one without a sec- ond. But there is no doubt in the fact that the man, nay every living entity, is a part and parcel of the Supreme God in quality; and therefore qualitatively there is no dif- ference between living being and God. But so far quantity of energy and poten- cies are concerned, there is a great ocean of difference between living being and God. Therefore, the right philosophy is that God is simultaneously one and differ- ent from the living being. Those, who therefore consider God and living beings are identical in every respect, are poluted in thought. This polution of thought of the empiric and atheistic philosphers now prevailing practically all over the world, has caused a tremendous deterioration of human civilization as to become agnostics in dealings. Symptoms of this agnostic trend of human civilization is described in the 16th chapter of the Bhagwat Gita and I need not describe it before you. Therefore the preaching of the Bhagwat Gita must be in the line of its parampara system as it is described in the 4th chapter of the book. If it is not done so, then such preaching of the Bhagwat Gita, even if it is done by the erudite scholars, will be a sheer waste of time, en- ergy and money. I wish, therefore, that you may co- operate with me in giving the idea an ef- fective shape. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention particularly to my papers (issue No. XI) “An essential service” and (Issue No. X “Sri Krishna the Supreme Vedantist"’. In this connection, I have al- ready made an association registered, of which a short description is given on the 4th page of the issue No. X which, I hope, you will kindly note. Some friend asked me to join your in- stitution for preaching the cult of Bhagwat Gita; but if you find it difficult to accept my service, then I shall go on organising my society separately. And if you advise me to do so separately, then I would re- quest you to become a formal member of the League personally. I hope you will not take my offering in an inferior complex but accept it in a spirit of love for the Bhagwat Gita. Om Tat Sat, As I have been engaged in speaking of the Bhagwat Gita in your ‘Bhavan’ for a few days, you may kindly send me the re- ply to the address given on the top of the first page. Om Tat Sat. lam, Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 57-2 Kanpur 7th May, 1957 Sir Padampat Singhania, Kamla Tower, Kanpur My dear Shri Padampat Ji, In continuation of my yesterday’s let- ter, which I hope you have duly received by this time, and with reference to your re- quest of submitting the way of powerful Mantra for broadcasting all over the world, I beg to inform you further that in every Mantra the prefix of Namah is gen- erally added. Just for example you said the other day Namah Sivaya. Now this Man- tra is practically indicating the holy name of Lord Shiva. Na means negation and Ma means false ego or Ahamkara. Therefore Namah means surrendering to the name Shiva. In other words to accept the su- premacy of Lord Shiva means Namah Si- vaya. Thereofe the conclusion is that in 40 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Mantra the name of the diety is unavoid- ably amalgamated. And in the Mantra the spiritual power, by the Rishis like Narad etc. is surcharged like the copper is elec- trified by magnetic force. The etymologi- cal alphabets are so surcharged with spiritual potency and as such all Mantra indicating the transcendental holy name of God or Godhead is to be understood in that way. When we chant the Mantra as were presented by the authorities—the process helps communication with the personality of Godhead by the sound waves as we have now experienced in the material world of physical waves vibra- tions. The powerful Mantras have such potency if they are sounded in the right di- rection. And by chanting the Mantras only one can spiritualise the whole exis- tence as heat can expand on the spherical objects. Mantra Siddhi means complete liberation. Therefore, there is no differ- ence between the holy name and Mantra. Man means mind and tra deliverance. That which delivers one from mental speculation is called ‘Mantra’ ‘Mantra Siddhi” is to transcend the gross and sub- tle mental plane. The same meaning is for In this age all the Mantras that can help us reaching perfection up to the plane of Godhead—has been still more concen- trated into the Harinam. We find therefore in the Brihannaradiya Puranam (38/126) a particular stress on Harinam which is stated as follows:—Harinama Harinama Harinama eva kevalamKalau nastyeva nastyeva nastyeva gatir anyatha The above statement is very important in the following manner. There are two different processes for acquiring knowl- edge. The one is Deductive Process and the other is Inductive Process. In the De- ductive Process we deduce the conclusion from the statement of higher authorities whereas by the Inductive Process we make a research in the truth by our own imperfect knowledge and induce a con- clusion. Say for example if we want to know how man is mortal then we have to make a research in statistics of daily death occurances. Rama dies, Shyama dies, fa- ther dies, mother dies, he dies, she dies, etc. all these experiences may help us in the conclusion that after all man dies and therefore the conclusion man is mortal made. But the defect of this process of knowlege is that it may be that we have not seen a person who is still living even after some thousands of years. As soon as we get this information the whole conclusion that a man is mortal—is atonce changed and we have to say that some men are mor- tal. In this way the research work of scien- tific thought are constantly changing because the very research work is done by person who is himself a condition by the four principles of mistake, illusion, cheat- ing and imperfection. Therefore, the De- ductive Process is more effective. Man is mortal we have heard it from very authori- tative sources like the Vedas and we have accepted it. The Vedas say that stool is im- pure but the stool of the cow is pure. The Vedas say that bone is untouchable but the conchshell which is also a bone is per- fectly pure. For the common man the statements of the Vedas appear to be con- tradictory. But in spite of such contradic- tion, because we Hindus accept the Vedas as authority we accept cowdung as pure and allow it to be used even in the kitchen. So also we accept the conchshell. The conchshell is after all a bone of an animal but because it is accepted by the Vedas we allow conchshell to be used in the sancti- fied room of our family diety. If we exam- ine in the physical laboratory or analyse it by chemical test we won’t find any differ- ence between the stool of a man and that of a cow or the bone of an ox and that of a conch. And yet the whole Hindu Muslim conflict, the whole struggle of Gandhi and Jinnah and the whole question of Kashmir 1950s 41 problem in the UNSCO have arisen from this petty difference of bones only. In the Hindu temple the bone conchshell is al- ready there but as soon as a Mohamudan throws a piece of bone of the ox in the temple—the whole trouble began, result- ing in the partition of India and Pakistan. So an impartial mundane student who will enter into the research work of such bone affairs in the annals of Indian History— surely he will come to the conclusion of unrestricted obedience to the words of the Vedas or that of the Koran or that of the Bible that lead to all sorts of Jehad and crusade. As a matter of fact the so called intelligent persons of the modernage have taken the shelter of secularism on the strength of past unfortunate religious feuds. This is another type of nonsense. Therefore in the present age respect for Deductive Process is dwindling whereas respect for Inductive Process is increasing although we know so far the Inductive re- search is concerned the process has not been successful. The conclusion is that we have lost our faith in the traditional Ve- dic knowledge handed down from the Guru to Chela or from the father to the son, although such system of Deductive Knowledge from the authority is the most perfect form of knowledge. The ultimate truth which is far beyond the reach of our imperfect senses can never be known by such inductive research work. The imper- fect senses could not even measure the distance of the physical product ‘The Sun or the Innumerable stars in front of us— and what such imperfect senses can make a research in the Mantras which are purely spiritual affairs. We have to accept the Mantra and its potency from the Vedic source and follow the practice and princi- ples only to arrive at reality of truth. Re- search work by imperfect senses is practically a revolt against the established truth. Let us therefore accept the Vedic in- junction of Brihannaradiya Puranam I have already mentioned about this Mantra in my previous letter and I beg to confirm it further that the Name ‘Krishna’ even up to the foreign words like God and Allaha, if they at all aim at the Supreme Personality—then the Name is as much holy and potential as perfect is the Supreme Lord—because in the Abso- lute Realm or Spritual Nature everything is identical with everything as all of them are qualitatively spiritual and therefore pure, eternal, liberated and perfect. For all practical purposes if we sys- tematically preach to chant the holy name of Godhead, I think no body even the reli- gious fanatic will take objection to it. Every human being has a conception of the supreme truth. That conception is pre- sented in some concrete shape. If there- fore the Mussulman or the Christian denies to chant the name of Rama or Krishna we may ask him to chant the name of Allah or God respectively and I think therefore there will be no objection even by the Buddhists if we simply ask them to chant the name of Lord of Buddha in the systematic way. The systematic way means to avoid the ten different offences in the process of chanting, which are all philosophical truths. If by such propaganda of chanting the holy name, the filthy atmosphere of jeal- ousy, bickerings, selfishness, falsehood and so many other affairs of the modern age—can be avoided, and if by such chant- ing the complete process of self- realisation can be achieved—is it not our duty to do this service by combined force. In this age of quarrel and fight everything has to be done by combined force to achieve ready success. As the topmost person of a group of large scale indus- tries, your good personality knows better than me how combined forces and diverse energies make the particular industry a successful establishment. 42 Letters from Srila Prabhupada In the same way we have to combine the different forces of Sociology in men, money. intelligence and field work to make the spiritual movement a grand suc- cess. If we do not do that we shall be fail- ing in our duty to serve the complete whole. No partial service or temporary benefit can lead us to perfection. The world is mad after such temporary benefit and partial service and it is our duty to change the face altogether by an author- ised spiritual movement. The other day I was very glad to hear your ideas about it and in our next meeting I wish to say some thing about it as I have realised. Hope you are well. With my regards. Yours sincerely, Goswami Abhay Charan Bhaktive- danta Editor—** BACK TO GODHEAD.” 57-3 Bombay 20th February, 1957 The Hon'ble Mr. Chief-Justice Sri M.C. Chagla, Chief Justice House, Harkisan Road, Bombay-6. My Lord, I beg to inform your Lordship that on the 16th instant I was present in the meet- ing of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan in which your Lordship spoke something at length on the matter of equal distribution of wealth as the ultimate solution of eco- nomic problem. The subject matter dealt with in the meeting was **What is the mat- ter with the world?"’, and you all respect- able gentlemen tried to solve it in different angles of vision. Shri Munshiji tried very faintly to solve it by going back to God- head and I do not know whether your Lordship agrees with him. I may introduce hereby my humble self as the éditor of a fortnightly Theistic peri- odical and copies of the same are sent to your Lordship for your kind perusal. I came to Bombay from Vrindavan to see Shri Munshi on the same mission of going back to Godhead. because without this there is no solution of any problem, the world is now facing. The Bhagwat Gita is the standard book in this matter. Shri Munshi is trying to uti- lise this philosophy for the good of the people in general. He is spending estab- lishment charges to the extent of Rs.40,000/- per month for the last twenty years—but actually no tangible benefit is derived out of it up till now. I saw Shri Munshi with a view to cooperate with him for implementing the transcendental ideas of the Bhagwat Gita. But I did not receive any encouragement from him so far. Iam, therefore, secking an interview with your Lordship to discuss for a few minutes about this standard idea of solving the problems. In the Bhagwat Gita the solution of the problems are given in the following words, Bhoktaram vajna tapasam Sarva loka maheshvaram Suhrdam sarva bhutanam Jnatva mam santim rechati (Bg. 5.29) Yat karosi vat asnasi Yaj juhosi dadasi yat Yat tapasvasi kaunteya Tat kurusva mad arpanam (Bg. 9.27) Equal distribution of wealth or knowl- edge, beauty. fame, energy and non- attachment etc.. all these are perfectly donc by the above arrangement. The mat- ter is more explicitly understood by the example of our own bodily structure. The whole body is constituted of the senses and organs. All the senses and organs are 1950s 43 equally supplied with energy when the stomach is fully fed up. Stomach is the central figure for distributing equal en- ergy to the respective parts of the body as much as watering the root of the tree is the source of supplying energy to all the branches and leaves of the tree. The human society is now running on in an illusory way, forgetting its eternal re- lation with the Central Cause. They will have to be reinstated in that original posi- tion in terms of the above slokas of the Bhagwat Gita. Without this no solution is possible. There are practical ways and means to do this job in accordance with the present time, situation and objective. I have a programme for this job by the order of my spiritual master and I have come to Bombay to enlist some sympathi- sers with my object. Will your Lordship be kind enough to hear me for a few min- utes and oblige? Yours obediently, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 57-4 Bombay 21st February, 1957 Shri K.M. Munshi, Governor of Uttar Pradesh, Raj Bhavan, LUCKNOW. Dear Sri Munshiji, Please accept my respectful Na- maskar. I hope you have duly received my letter of the 18th instant in the meantime. By the by while reading some of the litera- tures of your great institution, it has come to my notice that you have in your mind about the various temples and their re- spective Pujaris also. In this connection, I wish to draw your attention to my paper “Back to Godhead” issue No.VI dated 20/5/56 in which an idea of a Gita Nagari (PP2) and how to Preach the teachings of Bhagwat Gita are suggested. In that article I have also touched the question of these various tem- ples (PP3) of India and how to utilise them for public welfare work. A thorough reformation of the man- agement of these temples are required for spreading Theistic knowledge through these centres. No intelligent person is now attracted in such temples, because the purpose of these temples have been lost sight of due to negligence on the parts of both the public and pujaris. As a matter of fact, therefore, no new temples or places of spiritual enlightenment are con- structed now in the newly constructed colonies of different cities. There are some of the signs of materialistic trend. If I remember rightly, you have been criticising in the meeting of the 16th in- stant about the culture of Holywood cinemas. The Mayavadi philosophy hav- ing killed the spiritual variegatedness of the Supreme Being—the people are gen- erally attracted in the variegatedness of material existence. In the vedanta sutras, we have direct information of how a spiri- tual entity is joyful—full of spiritual bliss. This idea of enjoyment is focussed through a material _____ and as such the spiritual focus is reflected in a perverted manner. The attention of the people in general is attracted by the cinemas in place of temples, because the Mayavadi philosophy—impersonality of Godhead has created a void in the spiritual realm. But in fact the spiritual realm is not at all void. It is full of variegatedness of spiri- tual mellows. If you create a void in the Spirit unnecessarily, you have to create necessarily a fill-up in the material exis- tence and that is the cause why temples are being replaced by vulgar cinemas. So simple criticism of cinema houses will not fulfill the purpose. We have to create tangible interest in the temples for spiritual advancement of knowledge. With that purpose in view, it is necessary that the priests and pujaris must be 44 Letters from Srila Prabhupada enlightened men both in Theism and San- skrit language also. They shall be primary teachers of the Bhagwat Gita in different temples. Both these temples and their management have to be reformed in the present context. We shall have to accom- modate the process of temple entry by all classes of people but they may be so ad- mitted for proper qualification and not for the purpose of a mere show. Om Tat Sat. Yours truly, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 58-1 My dear Shri Ved Prakash, I am in due receipt of your letter No VP 1159/58 D/2/7/58 with thanks and have noted the contents carefully. I quite appreciate your feelings for the people of India. But when we speak of hu- manity it does not necessarily mean In- dian only neither it may be restricted within the human society even. ‘Paropa- kar’ or humanity is meant for all the 84 lacs varieties of living beings. Lord Chaitanya said ‘Praminam’ ‘Upakaraya’ i.e. to say for the benefit of all living being concerned. Then there is the question of opportunity also. While rendering first aid service in the battlefield the Red cross men although equally disposed to all the wounded soldiers—they give first prefer- ence to the hopeful ones. The hopeless ones are sometimes neglected. This is a crude example only. In India, even after the attainment of Swaraj, the mentality is predominent by “Made in London” ideas. It is a long story. But in nutshell the Leaders of India in the name of secular Government they have engaged themselves in everything foreign. They have carefully set aside the treasure house of India’s spiritual asset and they are imitating the westernised ma- terial way of life constantly engaged in the acts of error of judgement, misgivings, imperfectness and duplicity. India’s vedic knowledge is above all the conditional defects mentioned above but we Indians at the present moment have neglected such wonderful vedic knowl- edge. It is due to its improper handling now. The whole vedic literatures namely Vedas and Upanishads are summarized in the Vedanta Sutra which includes the pur- port of the six Indian philosophical the- sises of Kanda, Goutama, Kapila, Pantanjali, Astavedya and Vedic Rishis. This Vedanta Sutra was compiled by Srila Vyasadeva and by the advice of His Spiritual master Srila Narada—Vyasdeva wrote a commentation of the Vedanta Su- tra by compiling Srimad Bhagwatam. So Srimad Bhagvatam is the last gift of Srila Vyasdeva to represent an authorized com- mentation of the Vedanta Sutra and Lord Chaitanya’s mission is to preach this cult in every corner of the world in order to make the people really happy. This Ve- danta Sutra is now mishandled in India by unauthorized persons of different camps and as such the people are being mis- guided. Newly sprung up national enthu- siasm of the Indian leaders, Industrialists and plan makers, has no time neither de- sire to understand the message of Vedanta Sutra or even the Bhagwat Geeta. You cannot do acts of humanity without proper guidance. The Vedanta Sutra is the proper guidance because the sastra ‘‘Athata Bra- majijnasa”’ is the beginning of an enquiry in the essence of our different engage- ments. So my idea of preaching in the foreign countries means that they are rather fed up with material advancement of knowledge. They are seeking the message guidance of the Vedanta Sutra or for the matter of the Bhagwat Geeta in an authorized way. And I am sure that India will again go back to the Vedantic life when the principle is 1950s 45 accepted by the Europeans, Americans etc because the Indian people are now in the habit of begging, after neglecting their own property. That was my view point. Butall the same we must take only the op- portunity of service without any limita- tion of time and space. More when we meet. Hope, now you may have returned from Calcutta. Yours etc. 58-2 Bombay 24th July, 1958 Seth Mangumal Amarsingh 345, Kalvadevi Road, 4th Floor, Bombay. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that Sri Sanjib Baner ji manager of the United Bank of In- dia, has advised me to see you between 1 to 2 p.m. and he has told me that he had telephonic conversation with you about me. I have come from Vrindaban on a missionary purpose and the necessary pa- pers in this connection are enclosed here- with. Please find. Sri Banerji has spoken very high about your good-self that you are highly interested in the matter of prop- agating the cult of devotion and the mes- sage of Vrindaban. The present Vrindaban city is the exca- vation of the six Goswamins headed by Srila Rupa and Sanatan Goswamins who were deputed by Lord Chaitanya to re- establish the Bhakti cult and inexecution of the order of Lord Chaitanya the six Goswamins lived there made a vast re- search in the Sahsteras and left behind them a vast literatures of pure Bhakti cult to be broadcast all over the world by later Acharyas. As such my Spiritual Master Shri Bhakti Siddhant Goswami Maharaj made a great effort to execute the order of Lord Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and we were fortunate enough to meet Him for service. Apart from his various uncom- mon activites in the line, He was kind enough to order me to propage the same cult in English language to preach the cult in the foreign countries and in obedience to His order I am trying to do my bit. What I have done so far will be spoken by the enclosed papers. But I am practically struggling very hard for this job without any tangible succes till Sri Sanjib Banerji has told me that you are the right person to co-operate with me in this noble task for propagating the Bhakti cult and combined in the message of Shri Chaitanya Chari- tamrita. The haering tendency is made easy and still more favourable by songs and music of spiritual value to be equally shared by all classes of men namely the highest edu- cated and the lowest illiterate. The move- ment is sublime and easy at the same time. The League of Devotees isregistered to make this movement in an organised way and I wish to enquire if any co-operation and help can be expected from your ho- nour. Awaiting an early reply and thanking you in anticipation. Yours faithfully, 58-3 Bombay 28th July, 1958 Dear Mr. Banerjee, Please accept my Namasker. As ad- vised by you the other day I went to see Mr. Mangumal at Kalvadevi but he did not entertain the idea of missionary work. I talked with him and found him perfect gentleman but he has spiritual realisation of the lowest rank. According to Bhagwat a person who is attracted by the Archan Marga without any knowledge of the sci- ence of Vaishnavism is called the Kanistha adhikari vaishnava. He has of course 46 Letters from Srila Prabhupada honoured me with Rs.11/- and a glass of milk for which I have thanked him very much but mission is not fulfilled. I beg to inform you that one gentleman has allowed me to sit down in his office for propaganda work in Bombay city and I am seeking your help in this matter. Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu’s message of uni- versal love and fellow feeling requires to be preached in an organised manner and we Bengalis the countrymen of Lord Chaitanya have a responsibility for this transcendental task. Some years ago Srila Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswami Maharaj my spiritual master attempted to preach this message throughout the world but unfortunately after His departure the movement was not carried by the entrusted successors. I am feeling for it and I have come to Bombay for organising this movement. Respectable gentlemen specially the Bengali community may comeforward first so that others will automatically follow the suit. The modern set of human civilisation is an anachronism and Shri Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu’s message only can adjust the thingsall over the world. It is not blind con- viction but actually this a tact which can be judged if people will make an analysis of the mercy bestowed by Lord Chaitanya. The whole world is looking for it and it will be a credit for the Indians generally and he Bengalis specially if they can give the mes- sage to the suffering humanity in the right direction as chalked out by the authorised Acharyas. I wish to talk with you in detail and shall be glad to know if you can spare some con- venient time for this. Also I shall be more glad to speak on the teachings of Lord Chaitanya amongst your selected friends if such a meeting is organised at your or any other suitable palce. Thanking you in an- ticipation and awaiting your reply. Yours sincerely. 58-4 Bombay 28th July, 1958 My dear Shri Ved Prakash Ji, With reference to my interview with you yesterday, I beg to inform you that the cause of our difference of opinion is based on the fact that you have got you own opin- ion in the matter of preaching our spiritual culture in the foreign countries but so far I am concerned I am conducted by the or- der of a superior authority and liberated person. My spiritual master Om Vishnu- pada Sri Sri Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswami maharaj wanted it and just try- ing to serve Him without any personal whim. If you would have co-operated with me you could do so for the satisfaction of spiritual master as abovementioned and that was a chance to serve a real represen- tative of the Lord. I was glad to hear your regard for the world preachers like Chriest etc and I can see in you a desire for real service to the suffering men. Here is achance for you and if you like you can utilise this opportunity for your as well as many other’s benefit. It is not imagination nor self compliance but it is fact. I found you a good soul and therefore I did pro- pose it to you but if you refuse co- operation then what I can do. Even Shri Krishna cannot compel one for co- operation because every living being is given full chance of utilising independent views. The humanform of life although temporary it has a great value for utilising for the service of the Supreme. The Su- preme is everything but everything is not the Supreme. The stomach can digest foodstuff for all the sense organs but all the parts of the body is not the stomach. This philosophy of Achinta Vedaveda Tatwa was preached by Lord Chaitanay tor world welare. It is our duty to help its practical preaching by all efforts. No body is competent to interpret on the Shastras 1950s . 47 by one’s whim. It is science it has to be learnt from the proper sources. Shri Krishna is not a man in flesh and blood and His Leela was not meant for interpre- tation by any mundane scholar. There is way to learn it and unless we have it our energy will be spoiled only by attending any layman’s hypocricy. I had a mind to say you something about it but you have denied my co-operation and I have noth- ing to say about it. I hope you will think over this in your liesure hours and oblige. Thanks. Yours faithfully, 58-5 Bombay 2nd August, 1958 My dear Harbanslal Ji, I am very glad to learn that you have now gone to foreign countries for tour on business as well as cultural mission and I hope that you are enjoying there both your good health as well as the trouting experi- ence. We had a German friend Indian domiciled for the last 20 years who is a great scholar in several languages. He used to say that in Germany specially, wherever an Indian goes specially the stu- dent, the Germans receive him well in the proportion of his Indian cultural knowl- edge. Scholars and thinkers in Europe specially in Germany and Russia know it well that for learning about cultural knowledge, no body can surpass the Indi- ans who have a back ground of centuries engaged in spiritual investigation. According to Indian way of thought, every one is advised to do good to others namely not only to the human society but also to living beings other than human be- ing. The Indians are not cow worshippers as others wrongly interpret it, but the In- dians are gratitudeful to the species of cow for supplying milk to the human babies and the sentiment is so fine that simply for supplying milk the cow is accepted as one of the seven mothers. That is called Indian cultural mission. We should learn to look upon every living being as our own brother and treat him in that love. Ma- hatma Gandhi’s philosophy began from this philosophy of universal brotherhood which is not restricted to the human kind but to all the species of life. That is the sign of real intelligence. In the Bhagwat Geeta it is stated that a learned man looks upon a well educated Brahmin who is well behaved by education and so also upon a chandala who is accustomed to eat the dogs. And what is the purport of this equal vision? The purport is that we should look upon every one as the spark of the Su- preme Brahman and we should not look upon the outer dress which every one has to give up one birth after another. I hope you will preach this Indian way of think- ing every where in the foreign countries wherever you will have the opportunity. I think that people need this Indian message in this hour of necessity when the atomic bomb is hovering over the head of the hu- man society. You know that I am attached with one cultural mission of the name of the League of Devotees as well as Indian cultural Congress which is trying to broad caste this message of Paropakara. The standard of Paropakara should be such as will be useful both in the current life as well as life after death. Every sane man thinks of Paropakara in that way. Temporary sense gratification is not real Paropakara. Please therefore begin these Paropakara activities in the foreing countries as you have gone there. I think your going there is another preaching the Indian culture as above mentioned. I shall be glad to be in touch with you by correspon- dence so that I may be giving you my hum- ble suggestion for this service. By the by by I may inform you that, as you know I am passing my days in 48 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Bombay in great inconvenience for want of a suitable residential place. I may re- mind you in this connection that your goodness promised me some place in your flats as soon as one of them is vaccant. I understand that some are going to be va- cated soon and I shall request you to help me by giving me a flat and thus mitigate my difficulties. A flat with minimal [PAGE MISSING] 58-6 Bombay 4th August, 1958 Pandit Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India, New Delhi-2 My dear Pandit Ji, Please accept my respectful Na- maskar. I beg to inform you that your speech on 2/8/58 at the Gurukul Univer- sity Hardwar, has given me some inspira- tion to inform you something about Indian culture. The basic principle of Indian cul- ture is spiritualism which defies the exter- nal attraction of phenomenal materialism. You are thinking of adjusting western ways of material adjustment with Indian culture of spiritualism and I beg to give you herewith the clue that materialism conducted with an aim of reaching spiri- tual perfection, is the right adjustment of human activity. If the aim of spiritual realisation is missed, the whole plan of materialism is sure to be frustrated and that is the law of Nature. The law of nature is so made by a superior authority and no body can sur- pass the intricacies of material nature sim- ply by partial adjustment of material science. The history of the West begin- ning from the time of the Greeks and the Romans down to the modernage of atomic war—is a continuous chain of sense grati- ficatory materialism and the result is that the westerners were never in peace within the memory of 3000 years of historical re- cords. Neither it will be possible for them at any time in future to live in peace till the message of spiritualism just suitable to the present age does not reach their heart. Therefore India may not waste her time in imitating the western way of life. You have admitted it that the position of India’s culture is of very high order. But at the same time you want to bring in mate- rial prosperity of India by scientific ad- vancement of knowledge. And what is that scientific Knowledge? Spiritualism is also advanced scientific knowledge. Ma- terial advancement of scientific knowl- edge cannot give even the desired material prosperity to the people in general with- out spiritual help. Swaraj of Mahatma Gandhi was adjusted in spiritualism more than materialism. Do you think that horseless carriage or telephonic or radio communication or any other such ephem- eral facilities of life, can bring in material prosperity? No it cannot. Material pros- perity means that the people must have sufficient to eat or to maintain the body and soul together in sound health for fur- ther development in spiritual conscious- ness which is conspicuous by its absence in the sense gratificatory life of the ani- mal. Do you think that your different plans have brought in that standard of ma- terial prosperity or that modern western civilisation can bring in that ideal pros- perity? Even they are given all the facili- ties of material need yet the unrest will continue to go on till there is spiritual sat- isfaction of life. That is the secret of peace. Both the Americans and the Russians are better materially advanced and al- though they have different political phi- losophy of life till they are not materially happy and peaceful because both of them are unconciously hankering after spiritual realisation as the child cries for the mother without expression by language. 1950s 49 You can help the people of the world for satisfying their spiritual hankering as the true Indian messenger of peace. The world has recognised your sincere effort for endeavouring peace in the world and this is the suitable time to help your friends and at the same time glorify the standard of Indian spiritual advancement of knowledge for world peace. Please take up the matter in cool brain. Poverty means poverty of knowledge. Prime minister Chanakya Pandit used to live in a thatched house or cottage but he was the dictator of India in the days of Em- peror Chandra Gupta. Mahatma Gandhi your poltical Guru voluntarily accepted the ways of the so called poor Indians and stil he was the dictator of India’s destiny. But was he actually poverty sticken on ac- count of his plain living with the premitive charkha? He was always proud of his spiritual knowledge. Therefore it is the spiritual knowledge which makes a man really rich and not the radio set or the mo- tor car. Please therefore try to understand this position of Indian culture and try to give it to the western brothers in the pre- scribed standard method of the liberated persons and that will be an exchange of In- dian culture with western material ad- vancement and necessarily bring in a happy life in the peaceful world. Here is a programme of spiritual movement (an appeal enclosed herewith). I am struggling alone very hard to give it an effective shape without any help from persons like you. You can help the move- ment a lot without the least difficulty or disturbances. My humble advice to you, as I am your old friend from Allahabad, is that you should now take leave form you present responsibility of Prime ministership and as you are a popular gentleman of the world you can just engage the rest of your most valuable life in this organised spiri- tual movement to achieve the aim of your life which is yet to be known by the the world. By pushing on this au- thorised spiritual movement you can make a real adjustment of the western rna- terial science combined with Indian way of spiritual realisation. Please therefore think over this pro- posal very seriously and let me know your reaction upon it and oblige. If you can spare a little time, I am sure to convince you about its importance more quickly. Thanking you in anticipation and awaiting your early reply. Yours sincerely, A.C.B. Private letter per registered post Enclosure:-1. 58-7 Bombay Sth August, 1958 Per. Registered Post with A/D. Shri Ratanshi Morarji Khatau, Organiser of Bhagwat week (22-7-58 to 28-7-58) at (Vedanta Satsang Mandal) 55, New Marine Lines, Bombay -1. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I am in recept of your invitation letter in the matter of ob- serving Bhagwat week through the secre- tary of Bombay spiritual centre. As I know what sort of Bhagwat week can be observed by the Mayavadins for mislead- ing the inocent public and therefore I not only restrained myself from attending the function but also I advised many others not to attend for the very reason that the recitation of holy Bhagwat is being per- formed by men who have no access in this great scripture in which only the liberated persons, who are freed from all preten- tious religiosities, can take part. The Mayvadins specially have no right to dis- cuss Srimad Bhagwat Puranam for the 50 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda only reason that they are aspiring after lib- eration (Moksha Vanohha). And Sripad Shankaracharya because He was the in- carnation of Shankara. very carefully avoided to make any commentation on the holy Bhagwatam. Sripad Shankaracharya preached His Mayavada philosophy for bewidering the atheist class of men inor- der to confound them to become more and more atheist and thus suffer perpetually within the threefold miserable conditions of the material nature. But because He was great devotee at heart He dared not to commit sacrilege by unauthorised com- mentation on the Bhagwatam for He knew it well that a person who aspires after Mukti or merge one’s identity in the im- personal feature of the Supreme Person- ality of Godhead, is debarred from the benefit of Srimad Bhagwatam. If you read Srimad Bhagwatam from the beginning (which is absolutely necessary for a seri- ous student) you will find what is spoken there in the 2nd sloka of the Ist chapter of the lst Canto. It is clearly stated there that mundane religiosities, economic devel- opment, sense gratification and ulti- mately a frustrated man’s desire to merge in the impersonal feature of Godhead and all similar other things are completely thrown away from the transcendental lit- erature of Srimad Bhagwatam. Sripada Sridhar Swami the most authorised com- mentator on the Bhagwatam has said that by the prefix of ‘PRA’ in the sloka the de- sire of liberation (Moksha Vanohha) is also stopped herewith. A person who is not a pure Vaishnava cannot understand Srimad Bhagwatam. A mayavadi may pre- tend to become a so called Vaishnava but because he cherishes at heart to merge into the Supreme. he is unable to develop the devotional cult which is a necessary qualification for understanding Srimad Bhagwatam. And to qualify the Mayava- dins and other common men who indulge in the mental speculative transactions, Srimad Bhagwatam gives them instruc- tions from the Ist to the 9th canto about the transcendental nature of the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Unfortunately the cheap and unscrupulous professional readers of the Bhagwat or the Mayavadi misleaders in the garb of a renouncer in- dulge in the highest topic of Srimad Bhagwatam described in the Rasa Pancha Adhya. A person who is compact in mun- dane thought of material enjoyment will certainly be indulging in playing with poi- son if anyone, devoid of transcendental realisation playfully deals with the tran- scendental pastimes of Lord Shri Krishna. Some friends who attended your Bhagwat week have told me how the pastimes of Lord Krishna was being wrongly inter- preted in your organisation on the pretext of saving Krishna from being an immoral personality. To save these foolish audi- ences in future Maharaj Parikshit had al- ready asked Sripad Sukhdeva Goswami to clear the Rasaleela activities of Lord Shri Krishna. The transcendental nature of Rasa Leela does not require to be apolo- gised by any Mayavadi or mundane moral- ist. The Leela is what it is. Srila Vyasdeva never desired that in future the real pur- pose of the Rasa Leela had to be explained by some mundane scholar with poor fund of knowledge. It does not require to be changed a bit but the only thing required in this connection is to qualify oneself in the matter of undergoing a strict spiritual training to realise the same transcenden- tally from the right sources. In order to keep the Rasaleela activities of the Lord in tact Srila Sukdeva Goswami has already explained the matter in the Bhagwat 10th canto chapter 33 and slokas 29 to 39. I shall request you to go through them with special reference to the slokas Nos. 30,34 and 39. In the sloka No.30 it is forbiden that a mundane person should not indulge in hearing Rasa Leela or one should not hear 1950s 51 Rasaleela from a mundane person. In your organisation both the audience and the lecturer are mundane persons and their indulgence in the matter of Rasaleela out of sheer foolishness will result in im- mitating Rudra who swallowed up an ocean of poison. There is nothing immo- rality in the transendental activities of the lord neither it requires to be defended by any immoral man because simply by re- membering the holy name of Krishna or by serving His lotus feet one can at once become a liberated person. (Bhag. 10/33/34) Besides that the result of read- ing or hearing the Rasaleela in the devo- tional mood is stated (Bhag. 30/33/39) to become culminated in complete disap- pearance of the devotee’s lust disease in the heart. Persons who are not pure devo- tees and must have therefore an impure heart full with dirty things of mundane af- fairs will not only try to defend RasLeela by interpretations or decry the dealings but also shall be ruined as by drinking poi- son a man goes to hell. I shall request you therefore not to mis- lead the people in general under the garb of religiosity and indulge in the transcen- dental pastimes of the Lord known by the name Rasa Panchaadhya. This society stands to rectify all these anomalies in the name of religion and I shall ask your good sense to join hands with us to stop all these nonsense. India’s culture of spiritual value has an unique position and it has to be learnt by the human society in right earnest from the right sources. As an In- dian and a man of good sense with practi- cal business-brain you should not at least indulge in such organisation under the in- fluence of unauthorised person. Instead of indulging in the organisation of such un- athorised persons you may kindly learn the science from the authority and make your life enlightened and attain success of the boon of human form of life. The League of Devotees is an organised effort to render this service to the human society without any pretentious conventions. We are publishing one paper of the name Back to Godhead to educate people in the right direction and I am sending herewith one pamphlet in which the opinions of several respectable gentlemen are in- serted as to how they are being appreci- ated. It is our duty to defend the cause of ‘Bhagwat’ either by request or by legal action according to necessity and I hope you will understand us in our most re- sponsible task. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticiapation, Yours faithfully, A.C.B. Enclosure-1. 58-8 Bombay 14th August, 1958 Shri Anand Prakash, c/o Rai Sahib Madho Ram & Sons, Nai Sarak, Delhi. Dear Sir, As you are a gentleman in public wel- fare activities, I am in need of your help for advancing the cause of my missionary activities. The programme in nutshell is enclosed herewith in an appeal form which please read and oblige. And on re- ceipt of your reply to this letter, I shall send you my publications both in Hindi and English. The whole idea is to preach the cult of Lord Chaitanya who desired to bestow upon every living being the highest bene- fit by transcendental love of Godhead, which alone can bring in peace in the world. As an experienced philosopher gentle- man of practicality this facet is not hidden before you. According to Lord Chaitanya every Indian is competent to do good to 52 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the rest of the world. Provided such Indian has fulfilled the mission of life. And the mission of life is to revive the dormant di- vine consciousness in every living being. The process recommended by the Lord is very simple and plain. It is just to create a favourable condition for hearing only the message of Krishna (The Bhagwat Geeta) or the messages about Krishan (The Srimad Bhagwatam) or both and I have therefore come to you for getting your co-operation. I hope you will not deny the co-operation. The thing is that the living being is the part and parcel of the Supreme Lord Shri Krishna and some way or other he (the liv- ing being) has come in contact with the material energy with an enjoying spirit to lord it over the material nature which spirit is a perverted reflection fo the Abso- lute Enjoyer the Lord. In other words the living being due to his desire of becoming an imitation Lord of the material nature, he is suffering the effects of material en- ergy inthe shape of threefold miseries as a matter of police action of the strong mate- rial nature. The foolish living being is try- ing to overcome the stringent laws of Nature by different plans which are being frustrated ____ ergular way. The last snare of Maya or the material is an offer- ing of opportunity to become one with Absolute thereby misleading him (the perpetually to pull onthe ma- terial bondage under different categories of life. He can only be saved from this tur- moil by reviving his consciousness of sur- render unto the Lord which only saves him from all effects of sin. That is the last instructions of the Bhagwat Geeta. Lord SriChaitanya Mahaprabhu who is Krishna Himself in the Form of a devotee preached the cult of the Bhagwat Geeta for all practical purposes and benefit of the humanity at large. As it is stated in the Bhagwat Geeta that a person who takes the resposibility of preaching the Bhakti cult by all means is the most most fa- vourite person of the lord. This mission has to be taken up in the modern light of understanding and for this purpose I have registered ___ association of the name as above mentioned. I wish that a personality like you may accept the head man ship of this institution and conduct the missionary work in a suit- able manner befitting the time circum- stances of the modern civilization. The old way of leaving the matter to the irre- sponsible class of men will not help the preaching work of this important mission. Resposible gentlemen who are manging all other affairs, must also take up the re- sponsibility of this branch of acivity and then it will successful. The present world situation is too much entangled. It is the duty of all sane men to enlose the tight- ened condition by the simple method of Bhagwat Geeta and the result is sure to be successfull. I hope you will take the matter very se- riously and do some practical service for the satisfaction of the Lord. Yours faithfully, 58-9 Bombay 14th August, 1958 Padmabhushan Knight Commander, Darshanacharya Dr. B.L. Atreya M.A. D.Litt etc. Atrey Nivas, P.O. Hindu University, Varanashi-5. Dear Sir, As you are a visiting professor to for- eign countries on religious and philo- sophical mission, I am in need of your help for advancing the cause of my mis- sionary activities. The programme in nut- shell is enclosed herewith in an appeal form which please read and oblige. And on receipt of your reply to this letter, I shall send you my publications both in 1950s 53 Hindi and English. The whole idea is to preach the cult of Lord Chaitanya who desired to bestow upon every living being the highest bene- fit by transcendental love of Godhead which alone can bring in peace in the world. They are now very busy to bring in peace in the world and are continuously holding expensive conferences, meetings, summit talks etc. to make an effective peace movement but because such at- tempts are being made without any rela- tion of God, they are all manifold creations of the External Potency of the Absolute Truth. As an experienced phi- losopher this fact is not hidden before you. According to Lord Chaitanya every Indian is competent to do good to the rest of the world provided such Indian has fulfilled the mission of life which is to revive the dormant divine consciousness in every living being. The process recommended by the Lord is very simple and plain. It is just to create a favourable condition for hearing only the message of Krishna (Bhagwat Geeta) or the messages about Krishna (The spiri- tual Bhagwatam) or both combined in the message of Shri Chaitanya Charitamrita. The hearing tendency is made easy and still more favourable by songs and music of spiritual value to be equally shared by all classes of men namely the highest edu- cated and the lowest illiterate,. The move- ment is sublime and easy at the some time. The League of Devottees is registered to make this movement in an organised way and I wish to enquire if any co- operation and help can be expected from your honour. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticipation. Yours faithfully, 58-10 Bombay 26th August, 1958 Shri Jugalkishore Birla, Birla House, Albukark Road, New Delhi. Dear Sir, Please accept my respectful greetings. I beg to inform you that it is a matter of great satisfaction for us especially and for all generally that your honour is very sin- cerely anxious to preach the universal truth of Bhagwat Geeta all over the world. We know it also that you have spent much of you valuable enrgies for this pur- pose but so far it has not been to your satis- faction. The purpose of the Bhagwat Geeta can be preached only when it is taken up by real devotees of Krishna the Personality of Godhead. One of the real devotees of Krishna was Ar juna during the appearance of Lord Krishna and as such the parampara of the Bhagwat Geeta, which was broken prior to the occurence of the battle of Kurukshe- tra, was reestablished at the battlefield and Arjuna was authorised to understand the purpose of the Bhagwat Geeta. We should not miss this important point if we are serious about preaching the gospel of the transcendental literature. As such it is understood in the begin- ning that one who doesnot follow the foot prints of Arjuna, cannot enter into the mystery of the Bhagwat Geeta and there- fore no body can preach the gospel of Geeta without knowing its mystery. There are thousands and one scholars in India and abroad but very few of them have followed the foot prints of Arjuna ex- cept the Vaishnave Acharyas such Shri Ramanuja, Shri Madhya, Lrod Chaita- nya, Shridhar Swami, Madhusudan Sar- aswati, Vishwanath Chakarabarty, Vala- deva Vidyabhusan etc and many others 54 Letters from Srila Prabhupada who have followed the bonafide Achar- yas. The League of Devotees, is registered to train preachers and missionary workers for preaching the pure cult of the Bhagwat Geeta not only in India but also through- out the whole world—exactly on the line of the bonafide Acharyas as it is recom- mended in the very Bhagwat Geeta. And that is the right way to successful preach- ing of this Universal Truth for the benefit of all without any distinction of caste creed colour or nationality. Every one is open to approach the Personality of God- head Krishna not only from the species of the human kind but also from the species of life other than the human kind. This is clearly stated in the Bhagwat Geeta. So far the system of Varnashram is concerned it is no One’s monopoly business and any qualified man can be classed in the Varna and Ashram as it is described in the Bhagwat Geeta. The cult of Hinduism or the system of Varnashram are not being utilised in the spirit of the Bhagwat Geeta and as such the abovementioned cult is waning day by day. We should take serious note of this kind of deterioration of the Arya Hindu Dharma and shall request you to come forward to help this institution determined to preach the pure cult of the Bhagwat Geeta. You should not allow anymore the gross misuse of the cult of Sanatan Dharma at the risk of world peace and prosperity but come forward forward to co-operate with us in this noble mission and help us with all your strength. I hope you will not misunderstand the position of the Acharya who is so impor- tant a figure in the matter of learning the transcendental science. The Acharya is the direct representative of the Personality of Godhead. And no body can claim to be- come a bonafide Acharya if he has not strictly followed the footprints of the pre- vious Acharyas authorised in the matter. The whole thing has been disturbed in the set of Sanatan Dharma only by violating this principle of following the Acharya. So far the Bhagwat Geeta is concerned every one, tet him be a very great scholar in the mundane sense, must be in con- firmed position along with the mode of understanding of Shri Arjuna. That is the crucial point of testing an Acharya false or real Shri Arjuna is the first man to under- stand Geeta and the mode of his under- standing is clearly defined in the Bhagwat Geeta. So there is no difficulty in testing an Acharya whether he is false or bona- fide. Our determination is to preach the Bhagwat Geeta strictly on that parampara system as it is recommended in the Bhagwat Geeta. In the last portion of the Bhagwat Geeta the necessary qualification of un- derstanding the Bhagwat Geeta is clearly stated. According to this formula of qualifica- tion one who does not accept Krishna as the Supreme Personality of Godhead—is unable to understand the Bhagwat Geeta. Such devotees of Krishna are actually Mahatma. Such Mahatmas are very rare. They are seen always engaged in the tran- scendental service of the Lord especially in the preaching work of the Lord’s glories in His different enrgies namely the mate- rial as well as the spiritual which are de- scribed in the Bhagwat Geeta asthe Para and the Apara Prakritis. These Mahatmas are always anxious to preach the universal message of peace mentioned in the Bhagwat Geeta and it doesnot matter in whatsoever Ashram he belongs to. Arjuna was a householder Kshatriya and was fighting for the interest of the Lord and as such he was the first Achraya in the parampara line. Arta, Artharthi, Jnani and Jijnasu are the beginners in the line of understand- ing the Geeta. The Mahatmas are above 1950s 55 all these four classes of men and they are the post graduate men in the line. We know also the Ashuras who are divided into four classes namely the Duskritinas, the Mudhas, the Naradhamas and the Folish scholars. In order to preach the Bhagwat Geeta we have to create the Mahatmas and not the Foolish Scholars who have unauthorisedly taken up the Bhagwat Geeta without following the parampara line. That is an important point. Please therefore join this League of Devotees and try to preach the Bhagwat Geeta through the bonafide Mahatmas. Any one who follows strictly the foot- prints of Shri Arjuna is certainly a Ma- hatma. It does not mean that a red-dressed man is a Mahatma and a noble house- holder like your goodself is otherwise. We can find out Mahatmas like Arjuna in the householder life also and in this age of Kali we should find out More Mahatmas in the householders life than in the other camp. We are struggling very hard to give the mission a practical shape for want of money. It has not yet come to the point save and except publication of two papers only one in Hindi and the other in En- glish. And if your goodself joins, many other richmen of the world will certaily join. The minimum expenditure is esti- mated to be Rs.3000/- a month to begin with. Three hundred members of this no- ble mission can at once raise this sum for training the preachers and other neces- sary expenditure. Please therefore come forward and become the headman of this League. See that the money is properly being uti- lised and see the result also side by side. I am sure you will be encouraged to take interest in this missionary work more and more by the practical result of the work. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticipation. For the League of Devotees, Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Founder Sccretary. 58-11 Jhansi My dear Brother, Please excuse me if I have offended you by calling you my dear Brother. Actu- ally you are my dear brother and when you know me you shall be pleased that I have called you as such. You are my brother in relation to our common and Eternal Father the Almighty Personality of Godhead Sree Krishna the revealing Author of the great book of Phi- losophy ‘Bhagwat Geeta’. And from this book of transcendental knowledge, I have known that you and all other living enti- ties, in whatever form they may be, are all my brothers. But I know some other less intelligent brothers, who are now in the animal king- dom, will not be able to recognise me even if I address them as my dear broth- ers, for the reason of their being grossly enwrapped in material consciousness. But as you are a human being and as you have developed the consciousness of a hu- man being, I have ventured to approach you and address you directly ‘My dear brother. Please therefore donot mistake my endeavor. You may be, although I donot believe it. one of those other brothers who do not believe in the existence of any Person like Godhead our eternal Father. But if you so believe, I shall tell you that you are mis- taken. Your conviction as such is due to your either being misled by another way- laid brother or due to your failure to make communion with our Eternal Father. You 56 Letters from Srila Prabhupada are not therefore in the right conscious- ness if you do not believe in Him. I am prepared to convince you in every respect that there is our Eternal Father and He wants you and all of us to go back to our permanent home. If you argue that there is no such Father God at all, then I am still more prepared to argue with you in all seriousness. In that case you may kindly let me know your definite view points relevently so that I may try to reply these points one by one. And should you desire to argue with me, then my only re- quest to you will be that for all such argu- ments we must be always very sincere and serious. Once we are convinced in that way, we must be prepared to act accord- ingly. You may also argue that if there is any God at all, let Him be peacefully at His pleasure at any place He likes and we have no business with Him whatsoever. In that case I shall again say that you have every business with Him by re-establishing your forgotten eternal relation with Him. Suppose you are a rich man’s son and you have left your home, forgetting your father’s property, home and happiness. And if some body gives you information about your paternal property of immense value which you can inherit by your birth- right claim, will you neglect that friend? I am sure you will not. I am able to give you such important information. I can challenge you that you are not happy in the present set up of your affairs. You may have in your possession your so called accumulated material wealth, health or happiness but still you are al- ways feeling some insufficiency and frus- tration and thus you are not happy as you ought to have been. If you donot feel like this, then you must be either an abnormal man or a liberated saint or in gross igno- rance of lower consciousness. Should you feel yourself abnormally happy, I shall ask you the following plain questions. They are as follows: — 1) Do you like to die? 2) Do you like to take your birth again? 3) Do you like to be an old man? 4) Do you like to be a diseased man? I am sure you shall reply to all these questions by saying the only word ‘No. If you think yourself happy then have you solved all the above problems in any way? Have your vast resources of material knowledge helped you in solving these seemingly common but very big prob- lems? Do you think that you shall ever be able to solve the above problems at any length of time? If you say so, I shall again call you in abnormal condition. So donot become a madman in false conviction. Do not remain in ignorance for your problems. Be just like a fully de- veloped conscious man and acknowledge that you have never been happy in the true sense of the term neither your ideal of happiness has ever been fulfilled. The way in which you are seeking to be happy or trying to make others happy in your manufactured ideology—is called ‘Maya’ or illusion. By such illusory way of making yourself and others happy, you have simply been credited with creation of much disturbances and entanglement for all concerned. That is the record of his- tory of the material world. Empire may come and empire may go, the problems of life remains the same. Please therefore be cool headed and patiently ask within yourself if you are really happy. The happiness which you are hankering after is possible to be attained as soon as you learn to introspect yourself within yourself. You are yourself your friend and you are yourself your enemy. You can raise yourself by your self effort and you can down yourself by the same ef- fort. It is simply to know the direction and the way. In the right direction you can 1950s 57 make yourself happy in the right way. Please therefore contact us and we shall help you to raise youself to your normal happiness. It is no dream neither any bluff. You shall know yourself how far you have made progress in that path and our duty will be to help you only. Think- ing that you shall be a prospective mem- ber of our League of Devotees, I am sending you herewith a copy of the Pro- spectus and I wish most sincerely that you should become an active member of this great institution. Pay or pay not you can become a member without obligation and the League welcomes you always accept- ing you as the Divine child. Yours Sin- cerely, For the League of Devotees, Abhay Charanarvinda Bhaktivedanta Secretary. 1960-65 1960-65 61 60-1 Delhi 28th March, 1960 Dr. Y.G. Naik M.Sc., Ph.D., Principal Gujarat College, Dean, Faculty of Science, Gujarat University Ahmedabad Dear Dr. Naik, Your letter dated 20 March 1960 redi- rected from my Hd Qrs. (Vrindaban) is duly in hand and I am very much encour- aged to go through the contents which are full of valuable informations. The subject matter discussed in my article under refer- ence is authorised as far as it refers to the conclusion of Geeta. I may also inform you that my concept of anti-matter is exactly what you call it anti-material. Technically it may be that I could not express the exact word used by the physicist but I have tried to explain the word anti-matter in the light and sense of what you say as antt-material which is spirit. But spirit is not apara as you have pointed out. In the Bhagwat Geeta The Supreme Truth or the Absolute Person- ality of Godhead is the transcendental pu- rusha and the two energies namely para and apara are emanations from Him. The Apara or the Inferior material energy may consist of many other elements like mat- ter, anti-matter, proton, electron, neutron etc. in terms of physical science but ac- cording to the authority of the Bhagwat Geeta—all of them are produced of the in- ferior energy called by the name Apara Prakriti. The Apara Proksiti consists of gross and subtle matters like mind, ego and intelligence. Spirit is transcendental to all these. The spiritual energy para Prakriti is simultaneously one and differ- ent from the spirit whole. Qualitatively they are one but quantitatively they are different. The Brahman Ray is the efful- gence of the Supreme Person. You have defined impersonal Brahman as the Divine Energy. I fully agree with you in pursuanee of its description in the Brahman Samhita, I am going to publish in the next issue an article of the name “Variety of Planetary System” in which there is reference from the Brahma Samhita. According to the Bhagwat Puranam the Supreme Truth is realised in three stages namely the Impersonal Brahman or the Nirakar Absolute. The Paramtma or the localised aspet of Brahman. The neu- tron part of the atom may be taken as the representation of Paramatma who enters into the atom also. It is described in the Brahman Samhita. But ultimately the Su- preme Divine Being is realised as the Su- preme Person all attractive (Krishna) with full and inconceivable potencies of opul- ance, strength, fame, beauty, knowledge and renunciation. The six potencies are fully exhibited by Sri Rama and Shri Krishna when He descends before the hu- man being. Only a section of the human being who are unalloyed devotees could recognise Him on the authority of re- vealed scriptures but others are bewil- dered under the influence of material energy. The Absolute Trhth is therefore the Absolute Person without an equal or high competitor Personality. Impersonal Brahman Rays are the rays of His body transcendental as much as the sun rays are emanations from the sun planet. Accordiug to the Vishnu Puranam the material energy is called Avidya or nesci- ence which is exhibited in the fruitive ac- tivities of sense enjoyment. But the living being belongs to the group of anti- material energy or spiritual energy while he has the tendency of being illusioned and trapped by the material energy for sense enjoyment. In this sense the living being is the pos- itive energy whereas the matter is the negative energy. The matter does not de- velop without being in contact with the su- perior spiritual or anti-material energy 62 Letters from Srila Prabhupada which is directly part and parcel of the spirit Whole. Any way the subject matter of this spiritual energy exhibited by the living be- ing is undoubtedly very complicated thing for an ordinary man. The ordinary man is therefore astounded in the subject. Some- times he partially understands it through the imperfect senses and sometimes he fails to know it altogether. The best thing is therefore to hear the grave subject mat- ter from the highest authority Sri Krishna or His devotee representative coming down in the chain of disciplic succession. Bhagwat Geeta is the essence of all the Upanishads and Vedanta. I am glad to note that you have got the highest estimation for Geeta. I am just trying to present the conclusion of Geeta to the world as it is and without any imper- fect compromise with speculative inter- pretations. We have to learn the lessons of Geeta from the authorised dicipilic suc- cession as it is advised there in the book (4th Ch.). Unfortunately every one not in that line tries to explain Geeta in his own way and this process is misguided the peo- ple. We have to counteract this disruptive tendency and put them at right. I shall be very glad if you join my mis- sion (The League of Devotees) and on re- ceipt of your favourable reply I shall send you the prospectus. An erudite scholar like you should join and help in this noble attempt. Your appreciation of India’s cul- tural heritage is very much enlivening for me. Let us jointly distribute this great cul- tural heritage to the world at large in an organised manner and through the recom- mended process of Divine Love propa- gated by Lord Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. Please try to help me as far as possible. Awaiting your reply with interest. Hope you are well. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 60-2 Delhi-6 18th September, 1960 [From the Visitors’ Book] SRI SRI RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE 2430 Chhipi Wada Kalan I am pleased to write herein that I have come to Delhi from my H.Q. 1/859 Kesh Ghat, Vrindaban (U.P.) purely on spiri- tual mission to propagate the cult of devo- tional service of the Lord. And I am more pleased to mention herewith that Sriman Sri Krishna Sharma, Haribhaktan das, has provided me with a suitable room for my literary activities. I am publishing an English fortnightly magazine of the name ‘““Back-To-Godhead”’ from this place and the Nawal Prem Shabha of which Sri Krishna ji is the Hony Secretary is arrang- ing for my daily lectures on Srimad Bhagwat. Late Pandit Jyoti Prasad Sharma father of Shri Krishnaji was also known to me and during his life lime whenever I used to come to Delhi, Late Pandit Jyoti Prasad ji would provide me with residential place. His good son is also following the foot prints of his noble father and as secretary of the Nawal Prem Sabha, he is doing good service in propagating Rama Nama all over the city. In my opinion temples are centres for educating the public in spiritual values and I have a mission to organise all tem- ples for that spiritual education. Temples are not meant for ordinary householders engaged simply in the matters of animal propensities. Those who are actually en- gaged in the service of the Lord Deity, the predominator of the temple; can only be allowed to remain in the temple, other- wise not. Anyway so far I have been well treated both by Shri Krishnaji the Secretary and Sree Prabhatilal along with his son Sitaram—care taker of the temple. I wish all improvement of this spiritual 1960-65 63 establishment and I have full cooperation with the authorities concerned for this purpose. At last I must thank Sriman Hari Bhaktanudas Shri Krishnaje Sharma for his kindly providing me with a place for conducting my activities in the service of the Lord and without his help in this way it would have been an impossible task for me to start the paper Back-to-Godhead. I am waiting for the inauguration of the Bhagwat class proposed to be held in the temple daily. I am in the service of the Lord A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Editor, Author, & Preacher in Transcendental Science 61-1 Cuttack 20th March, 1961 The Secretary Ministry for Scientific Research and Cultural affairs, Government of India, New Delhi. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I am in the re- nounced order of life devoted in the ser- vice of researching in the science of cultural affairs of human spirit. I am the author of several books in this like and the copy of the Foreword by Dr. N.K. Sidhanta Vice Chancellor of the Delhi University on my book “EASY JOUR- NEY TO OTHER PLANETS”, is sent herewith for your perusal. As such I have been invited by the or- ganisers of The Congress for Culturing Human spirit to be held at Japan in the month of May 1961. The copy of bona- fides is also sent herewith for your refer- ence. I am a Snnyasi and my mission of life is to propagate the idea of cultivating spiri- tual vision of life which alone can bring about peace and prosperity of the human society. I wish to impress upon the dele- gates who will internationally join the Congress for Culturing Human spirit at Japan about the necessity of an interna- tional movement for this purpose in co- operation of all the enlightened people of the world. The Japanese organisers have agreed to meet my expenses there as you will find it from the enclosed papers and I am simply seeking your help to despatch me to Japan to attend this congress. I beg to inform you in this connection that the following gentlemen know me well and about my cultural activities in lit- erary careers. 1. Dr. S. Radhakrsahnan Vice Presi- dent of India. 2. Dr. H.K.Mahatab 3. Bhagirathi Mahapatra M.P. I must reach Japan (Tokyo) on or be- fore the 9th of May 1961 and I shall re- quest you to give me help and facilities in this connection. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticipation. Yours faithfully, (A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami) 61-2 Delhi 29th March, 1961 My dear Doctor Radhakrishnan, I beg to acknowledge receipt with thanks your letter of the 24th instant and have noted the contents. I have come back from Cuttack on the 26th night. You know that I am a Sannyasi without any relation with Bank neither I am attac- ched with financing institution. But the Japanese organisers have liked my litera- tures and they want me to be present there. The Congress which is going to be held at Japan is on the matter of How One Should Cultivate Human Spirit. While the Indian leaders are giving more impor- tance on the material construction of the 64 Letters from Srila Prabhupada human body, enlightened people of other countries are thinking of the Human Spirit. People of other countries who have already tested the bitterness of material- ism, are now seeking something else other than matter. The sages of India in the bygone ages cultivated on the Human Spirit in an elab- orate way. Sripad Sankaracharya, Ra- manujacharya, Madhva and later on Shri Chaitanya dealt on the subject most scien- tifically for the welfare of all men in the world. I think therefore that the Indian Government should send there all the rep- resentatives of the abovementioned Ach- ryas to deliver the message of Atma or the Human Spirit. A Godless civilization cannot bring about peace and prosperity and when they are anxious about it we must administer the required medicine. I am therefore very much anxious to at- tend the Congress although I have no means to go there. They are also very much anxious to get me there and if I say that I cannot attend the congress for want of means then I think it will be an insult to my country. Formerly the Zamindars and Princes would provide for such endeavours. But they are now finished. Under the circum- stances it is the duty of the Government to arrange for our travel in such noble mis- sion. I wish therefore that you can specially recommend my case to Minister Hu- mayun Kabir to arrange for it. If it is impossible altogether, then per- sonally you can send me there without any difficulty. They have already agreed to pay for my boarding and lodging for the days I shall remain there. I may also in- form you that the Secretary of the INTER- NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR CULTURAL HARMONY has already agreed to publish some of my literatures. If you will kindly somehow or other des- patch me there, then it will be a chance for my mission. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 61-3 Delhi 31st March, 1961 Bombay My dear Brijratanji, Kindly accept my greetings. I hope you are quite well in all respects by the Grace of the Lord. I beg to inform you that an interna- tional congress for cultivating Human Spirit is going to be held in Japan in the month of May 1961 and you will be glad to know that the Japanese organisers have invited me to attend the congress. They have already taken from me in advance the copy of my vies on Human Culture and their second letter confirms it that they are very much anxious to receive me there. From the copy of the enclosed certificate, you will find it that they have arranged for my boarding and lodging during the days of my stay there. Now I request you to arrange for my passage to Japan and oblige. Last you were ready to bear my passage expenses from India to South America. And as I could not get the No objection certificate I had to postpone the journey. This time there is no such question and the passage expenses to Japan are far less than South America. Kindly therefore do the needful imme- diately and give me a chance to speak to the enlightened people of the world the message of Human Culture from the Ve- dic literatures. I am sure such views will change the angle of vision of the world activities. 1960-65 65 Awaiting your early reply to the above camp Address and thanking you in antici- pation. Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami True Copy. Certificate. From the International Foundation for Cultural Harmony. PO Box No.43, Numazi City, Japan. To Whom it may concern. This is to certify that Shree A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 1/859, Keshi Ghat P.O. Vrindaban (Mathura) U.P. India, is a bonafide visitor to the “ CONGRESS FOR CULTIVATING HUMAN SPIRIT” will be held under the auspices of the International Foundation for Cul- tural Harmony from the 10th May through the 24th May this year 1961 at the important places in Japan. It is understood that lodging and boarding arrangements during the period will made and payed by us. It would be a great favour if necessary Passport and a visa to visit Japan are passed to him to make his arrival in Japan before the 10th May 1961. sd/-Toshihiro Nakano General Secretary International Foundation for Cultural Harmony Copy forwarded to Shri Brijratan S. Mohatta Peoples Building Sir P. Mehta Road Fort Bombay- 1. N.B. If you want take my assistance in any matter to be executed at Japan, I shall consider it my duty to do without any obli- gation on your part, Yours etc. 61-4 Delhi 31st March, 1961 Shri M.M. Malhotra Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs. Government of India New Delhi. Dear Shri Malhotra, Thank you for your D.O.No.25(16)/61-r-II dated the 27th in- stant with enclosure. I have now come to Delhi and staying at the above camp address for expediting the matter and therefore further corre- spondence maybe made to my above camp address. Enclosed I beg to hand you herewith the form sent by you and duly completed by me. Thanking you in anticipation and awaiting your early reply. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Per registered post With A/D. Enclosure:-1 61-5 Delhi 31st March, 1961 Deputy Manager, The Scindia Steam Navigation Company Ltd. Scindia House, Dougall Road ballard estate, Bombay-1. Dear Sir, Kindly refer to your letter No. OPD/FREE/369 dated 30/12/58 and I beg to inform you that you agreed to give me 50% concession from India to U.S.A. and I had to postpone my journey for not being able to pay you even 50% charges. I am a Sannyasi and my expenses for pro- pagting the transcendental message is borne by the philanthrophist every where. 66 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Recently I have been invited by the Japa- nese friends to attend an international Congress for Cultivating Human spirit and the copy of the invitation certificate will speak for itself. I shall therefore request you to give me full concession for going and coming back from Japan. India has to teach the world for cultivating human spirit and we are meant for htis purpose. Please therefore co-operate with us broadcasting the mes- sage of cultivating human spirit and in- crease India’s original culture of spiritual value for which counties outside India are always eager to have it. An early reply to my above camp ad- dress will enable me to arrange for my journey to Japan. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami True Copy. Certificate. From the International Foundation for Cultural Harmony. PO Box No.43, Numazi City, Japan. To Whomit may concem. This is to certify that Shree A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 1/859, Keshi Ghat P.O. Vrindaban (Mathura) U.P. India, isa bonafide visitor to the “ CONGRESS FOR CULTIVATING HUMAN SPIRIT” will be held under the auspices of the International Foundation for Cul- tural Harmony from the 10th May through the 24th May this year 1961 at the important places in Japan. It is understood that lodging and boarding arrange ments during the period will made and payed by us. It would be a great favour if necessary Passport and a visa to visit Japan are passed to him to make his arrival in Japan before the 10th May 1961. sd/-Toshihiro Nakano General Secretary International Foundation for Cultural Harmony N.B. Japan is far nearer than U.S.A. and therefore your sacrifice for travel to Japan even in full concession will be not more than 50% concession to U.S.A. I hpe therefore you will agree to this interna- tional cultural harmony and let me know your affirmation per return of post. Thanking you once more. Yours etc. 61-6 Delhi lst April, 1961 Mr. Toshihiro Nakano Secretary General International Foundation For Cultural Harmony. P.O. BOX No. 43, Numazi City Japan Dear Mr. Toshihiro Nakano, I beg to inform you that while I was on tour a letter from you was received in the office and it was sent to me on my tour. Unfortunately the same is missing and I shall be obliged if you please send me a copy of the same by return post. The sub- ject matter of your letter under reference was, however, noted and as such I have despatched to your address one copy of EASY JOURNEY TO OTHER PLAN- ETS and the pictographical explanation of spiritual culture 21 typed pages per sepa- rate air mail book-post (Regd). Kindly ac- knowledge receipt and oblige. I have sent you about 20 pictographical illustrative ideas and explanations. There are more 30 also but considering that you may feel difficulty to get all these 50 pictures printed and published within such short time, I have sent you only 20 pictographi- cal ideas. But if you think that I can send 1960-65 67 you the remaining 30 pictographical ex- planations also, you may let me know at once and I shall do the needful. For the present I have come to Delhi from Vrindaban and am staying at the above camp address. You can therefore address for the time being at my above- mentioned camp address. My small booklet Easy Journey to Other Planets is a novel step towards the path of cultivating Human spirit. The Russian scientists are trying to reach other planets by sputniks but such attempt is more or less utopian. There are innumer- able planets, within the visible sky and each of them have different climatic con- ditions. Human being of this planet can hardly adjust with the climatic conditions of other planets even if he is able to reach there by the sputniks. The easy method is suggested in my book which is called Bhaktiyoga easy to be performed by any layman in any part of the world. By such pratice of Bhaktiyoga one can reach even the spiritual sky which is far far away from this material sky. But the propagation of Human Spiritual Culture, your institution the International Foundation for Cultural Harmony, can teach all the people of the world about the easy method of Bhaktiy- oga which can carry the practitioner to any other planets even up to the spiritual sky. They are all results of cultivating Hu- man Spirit. And if you take up the matter seriously, I can help you also very seri- ously in co-operation with all important gentlemen who will arrive at Japan from every corner of the world. Please there- fore think of a programme for execution by your good Foundation. My advance copy of speech, which I have already sent you, together with the pictographical explanation, may be formed into one book and the pictures may be drawn in colorful expressive tone by your good Japanese artist. Japan is fa- mous for artistic work and India is famous for spiritual culture. We should now com- bine together for uplifting the unhappy human being from the muddy things of gross materialism. The Book may be published under the auspices of your good foundation and if you like it we can publish many other books for cultivating Human spirit. When I go to Japan I shall carry with me some important mss of my works and if possible we shall get them published for every one’s benefit. After the session of your organised session of the Congress I wish to make an extensive tour in Japan, China and U.S.A. for preaching the Cult of Human Spirit and I shall be glad if you consider this pro- posal with due importance. All great sages of the world like Lord Krishna, Lord Budha, Lord Chirest, Hazrat Mohammed, Acharya Shankar, Acharya Ramanuja, Lord Chaitanya, all lived for enlightening men on this culture of Human spirit. And men like us should follow their foot prints for all round wel- fare of the human society. Your Founda- tion has rightly taken up the cause in due time and I have my full co-operation with you. Hope you are well. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 61-7 Delhi 15th April, 1961 Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I have very kindly been invited by the noble Japanese organisers of the International Congress for Cultivating Human Spirit, to be held in your different important cities. I am an In- dian Vaishnava Sannyasi dedicated to the cause of spiritual upliftment of the human society. Ihave therefore taken up the cause 68 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda of the ensuing congress in your country and wish to meet you conveniently when I am in Japan. Present advancement of material civi- lization, in the opinion of the Indian sages, is going in the wrong way because it has neglected the spiritual side of hu- man constitution. All living beings are spiritual sparks covered by material en- cagement. In his pure spiritual form a liv- ing being eternal, cognisant and blissful, but being covered by matter he is suffering threefold miseries of material existence. The human form of life is the highest developed stage in the evolutionary pro- cess and thus a civilization based on spiri- tual culture is the right type of human civilization. The human being must know what he is, where from he has come what is the postion after death; why we are suffering threefold miseries of life; what is the ulti- mate goal of life; what is this cosmic uni- verse; what is matter and what is spirit; which of them is superior etc. There are so many things to be learnt by the human being. Unfortunately, the present human so- ciety by the advancement of scientific knowledge, has manufactured lethal weapons to kill and destroy. They have no discovery for living and building peaceful and progressive life. The world has no in- formation for the great problems life. Iam very glad that some of your noble countrymen have taken notice of this de- fective civilization and have very timely invited this important congress with a fu- ture idea of forming an international body like the United Nations Organisation not for conflict but for HARMONY. I am very glad to know this and I am anxious to meet you and render my full co-operation in this great, important and noble endeavour for welfare of the entire human society. I hope this noble move- ment will unite the communists and the capitalists alike for the common goal of life which still remained veiled for want sufficient intelligent class of men. I wish, therefore, that in this congress a combination of the most intelligent per- sonalities of all nations shall unite to- gether and teach the prople in general, ignorant in spiritual knowledge, that (1) Human life is based on spiritual ground (2) Spirit is separate superior element than matter and (3) by spiritual culture of life only the hu- man society can be brought into perfec- tion. This perfection of life will help also in building up the next progressive lofe after death. The human society is meant for lib- eral co-operation for this movement of all round perfection of the human society without any bar for class or nation or dog- matic faith. Spiritual culture is not dog- matic faith but it is based on philosophy, reason and culture. This can be intro- duced very easily through convenient methods of music, dance and refreshment which are acceptable by all grades of hu- man being in all parts of the world. It re- quires only to be organised by combined effort of the intelligent class of men of all nations. I have tried to explain the human cultural synopsis in fifty pictographical explanation and I wish that these picto- graphical explanations may widely be dis- tributed. The sponsors of the Congress have taken charge of this and I hope they will do the needful. Without spiritual culture a human so- ciety is another polished edition of the an- imals. There is no value of education in the animal society as the trained up loon in a circus is never to be trusted. The lion is not trusted because it cannot assimilate spiritual knowledge. But a man is able to take up this knowledge and his forma- tion of the brain is meant for it. It is noth- ing extraordinary for him because he is 1960-65 69 prepared for this culture and is awaiting proper administration only. The ways and means were envisaged by the liberated souls and especially by the sages of India and I proud to feel that Lord Buddha hap- pened to be an Indian and we worship Him as incarnation of Godhead. His holy name is mentioned in the Vedic literature like Bhagwat. We can take help from the Bhagwat the cream and ripen fruit of the Vedic literature and stop at once the quar- rel and turmoil of the present world. I hope that your honour along with other thoughtful men of your great coun- try will give full attention to this move- ment and I am always with you for rendering my humble service for this cause. I hope this will meet you alright and more when we meet. Yours in the service of the Lord. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. A similar letter by air is also sent to Mr. Teruta Kunito Mayor of Takamatsu City Takamatsu City, Shikoku Island, Japan 61-8 18th April, 1961 Dear Mr. Nakano, I am in due receipt of your letter of the 9th instant and I am grateful to you for all that you have said for me. I am a humble creature and I am just trying to do my bit in this connection because I was so or- dered by my Spiritual Master Shri Bhakti- sidhanta Saraswati Goswami Moharaj. As desired by you I have, imediately on receipt of your letter, sent two letters by air mail to the two respective Mayors of your country. The copy of the letter is also enclosed herewith as you desired me to do. While I am feeling too much ecstacy for the reception arrangement you are do- ing for me, I beg to inform you that my Passage expenses which is near about Rs3500/- not yet settled. I submitted one application to the Govt. of India for help and the copy of my application is also sent herewith. I also wrote a private letter to Dr.S. Radha Krishnan in this connection and the reply which I have received is also enclosed herewith. All these are not very encouraging for me. I therefore saw the Vice President to day personally but he says the same thing as he has written in his letter. Although the matter is not yet hopeless altogether I am disturbed in my mind thinking what shall I do in case the Govt. denies to help. I am therefore seeking your good advice in this connection. Dr. S. Radhakrishnan said to me that you had also invited him to attend your congress and he opines that the passage expenses might have been paid by you. The hope and expectation of the Con- gress is undoubtedly very great and I wish that I may fully utilise this opportunity for general welfare of the entire human soci- ety. I have fully explained my views au- thoritatively in my statements already sent to you for publication and the gist idea is expressed in the letter of the Mayors the copy of which is also enclosed. As a Sannyasi I have no personal purse for expenditure. Under the circumstances if the Government denies to help for the passage then I will have to ask for the same from you otherwise my going to the congress will end in dream only. I have very little faith in the dealings of the politi- cians and specially of the Indian politi- cians. From the conversation of Dr. S. Radhakrishnan it appeared to me that the Govt. does not approve of such congress as are organised by private persons and as such they do not participate in such con- gress. I shall wait for their final decision 70 Letters from Srila Prabhupada for one week more when the matter will be clear, yes or no. You have requested to send you my photograph and personal history and thank you for this. I am sending herewith some cuttings of photograph (Present) which appeared in the press. If these are not suitable for your purpose, then you can get a fresh bromo-copy from the ori- ginal negative which also is being sent herewith. Regarding my personal history I beg to state it shortly as follows: I was born 1st September 1896 in Calcutta as the third son of my father Late Gour Mo- hon Dev and mother late Rajani Devi in the family of one of very respectable Goldmerchant aristocracy of Calcutta. I was educated in the Scottish Churches College (B.A. 1920) and Netaji Subhas Chandra was my college mate. I left edu- cation influenced by Mahatma Gandhi in 1921 and joined for some time in the na- tional liberation and other social service movements. I was secretary of the Social Union movement of which Late Mr. J. Choudhury Bar-at-law was the president. In this movement there was a great stir for intercaste marriage in favour of Patel’s (Vithalbhai) bill. I was married during my student life in 1918 with Radharani Devi and she is in Calcutta with her sons and daughters five children and a few grand children also. After my education I was appointed (1921) as the Asst. Manager of Dr. Bose’s Laboratory Ltd of Calcutta and then engaged myself in my personal busi- ness in the chemical line. I was a research student in chemical and medicinal com- position and for the first time in India, I introduced Gadine preparation in the medical profession. I met my spiritual master Late Bhaktisidhanta Saraswati Go- swami in 1922 and he desired me to preach in the foreign countries the spiri- tual movement started by Lord Chaitanya for enlightenment of all materialistic men all over the world. He gradually turned my mind from matter to spirit and I was accepted as his disciple in 1933 after full associationof ten years. He left this world in 1936 and insisted to explain the mission in English. I started my paper Back to Godhead in 1944 and ledt home for good entirey to execute the order of my spiritual master in 1954. Since then my H.Q. is at Vrindaban and devote in literary work. [PAGE MISSING] 61-9 Dear Mr. Nakano, In continuation of my Reg letter of the 18th instant I beg to inform you that on 20/4/61. I have received the reply from the Govt. which reads as follows. I have therefore sent you to-day the follow- ing cable which I beg to confirm here- with. As you have, developed a deep love for me, I dare to ask you to send me financial help to take me to Japan. I think you can immediately instruct your Embassy in Delhito do the needful and dispatch me to Japan on your behalf. I am feeling too much tc meet you and the Congress so that we can build up a solid institute for spiri- tual cultivation. I shall await your instruction by cable to fix up my programmes. 61-10 Sth November, 1961 Sri Pramatha Nath Roy 140/A Raja Dinusta Street Calcutta-4. Handedover the manuscript of Shi Chaitanya Mahaprabhu for printing in a three forms book on the occasion of Sri Srimat Sakhi Charan Das Babaji Ma- haraj’s first disappearance ceremony. If not printed the same is to be sent 1960-65 71 back to Delhi per registered post. If printed he will send me at least 100 copies for distribution here. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 62-1 Dear Sri Puri, Yesterday evening I have come to Vrin- daban for a flying visit and shall return to Delhi on Monday 4/6/62 to attend the Jail meeting on Tuesday 5/6/62 morning. I am glad to see that my Thursday lectures have brought some changes in the mind of the young offenders. If the lectures are con- tinued I am sure to turn these offenders into saintly characters. The means which I have adopted is spiritual and it works quickly than any material means. If you give me chance to speak to all the mem- bers of the Jail, it is quite possible for me to turn them into ideal characters. In my next lecture on Tuesday the 5/6/62 morning, I would request you also to be present and see it personally how the transcendental medicine is acting upon them. I am just trying to make spiritual method as much practical as any other material cures with greater and persisting effect. [PAGE MISSING] 63-1 Vrindaban July 9, 1963 His Excellency Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, President of India Rastrapati Bhawan New Delhi. Respected Dr. Radhakrishnan, Please accept my greetings. It is un- derstood that you have come back from your American & European Tour on the mission of philosophy and religion. At present I am at Vrindaban. Last time (Feb. 9th 1963) when I met your Ex- cellency to present my Srimad Bhagwa- tam, you promised to read it to see what is there in it. As Srimad Bhagwatam is combination of philosophy and religion it is a great need of the day. It is a fact that at the present moment only philosophy and reli- gion canbring about a of humanity. I think you must have the re- quired ideal. The Governor Of U.P., the Congress President others all have sent their valued comments on the book. I am also expect- ing your opinion on the publication. This will help me very much. Hope you are well and thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami to the Governor of U.P. writes as follows: With reference to your letter dated March 18 I am desired to say that the Governor has with interest your book SRIMAD BHAGWATAM __ —— under separate cover and found it instructive and scholarly. His com- ments on the book are enclosed. Yours faithfully sd/ G.B. Parit etc 64-1 Delhi February 29th, 1964 Sri Mangala Nand Goutam Editor Rastrapati Jama Masjid Dispensary Delhi-6 Please receive the following books on sales and return basis in terms of you letter of date. Please also receive the order book also herewith. 5 copies of SRIMAD BHAGWATAM 72 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Vol. 1 sales price Rs. 16/- (Returnable if not sold within one week) 1 copy Order book No.23 to 10C. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 64-2 Delhi 13th March, 1964 AN APPEAL TO THE VAISHNAVA SECT AND SPECIALLY TO THE VALLABHA SAMPRADAYA OF BOMBAY AND GUZARAT. SRIMAD BHAGWATAM is very dear to all Vaishanavites and especially to the Vallabha and the Goudiya Vaishnavas. The glories of Vrindaban and Mathura are magnified by these two Sampradayas and the undersigned as an humble servant of all Vaishnavas, has tried his best to render it into elaborate English version for its publicity all over theworld. The first and second volumes of the publication are al- ready out and there are still 58 fiftyeight parts to be published to finish this mighty project. I am therefore appealing to the Val- labha Vaishnavites specifically to help me in this mighty project. I am a Sannyasiand as duty bound I have attempted this heavy task for benefit of all human beings and I am seeking your valued co-operation. A.C.BHAKTIVEDANTA SWAMI Enclosure :-One review by the Adyar Li- brary Bulletin 64-3 Delhi 12th April, 1964 Sri Mangalanand Goutam Jama Musjid Dispensary Delhi-6 My dear Goutamji, The other day when you came to me with your wife, you said that the order book & receipt book would be returned by you. But since then you have not seen me. Kindly return back the order book & the receipt book for bearer & oblige. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Vrindaban 23rd May, 1964 My dear Mathura Prasad ji, I beg to thank you for your kind co- operation in the matter of Bhagwatam Mission. I shall try to see the Hathras gen- tleman of whom you have given me the name and the address. Kindly send me some more addresses of gentlemen so that I shall send themthe books and other nec- essary papers to convince them about the importance of the work I have undertaken. After seeing the Hathras gentleman I shall go Delhi and from there I shall send you some sets books and other literatures to you per Railway parcel and then I shall again go to Agra from Delhi to secure some members of the League of Devotees which is a registered society possessing certificate of exemption of income tax to receive donations. Sethji, you are not an ordinary busi- nessman. You are sufficiently educated and have rightly taken to business. By the Grace of Lord Sri Krishna you one of the very important business magnet and I may inform you on the authority of great Acharyas and books of knowledge that it is our duty to make the best use of our money so long it is with us. By the law of nature nothing in the material world is permanent including our material body and therefore the great politician Pandit Chanakya who was once the Honarary Prime Minister of India, advised it that 1960-65 73 the nature of everything material being destructible the best use of a bad bargain is to utilise the temporary possessions for the cause of the Permanent. At the present moment the people are more concerned with the temporary things namely the gtoss body and the subtle mind without any practical touch with the permanent soul and His Lord. The result is that we have produced a godless civilisation and the whole world unhappy for this conception of civilization. Srimad Bhagwatam gives us practical solution for all the problems political so- cial ideological philosophical cultural and transcendental knowledge for all hu- man being. Srimad Bhagwatam is meant for all human beings and it is the duty of the Hindus specially the Vaishnavas to disseminate the great knowledge throughout the whole world. With this Purpose in view I have taken up the mighty project and I wish that you gentlemn co-operate with me fully. The co-operation is possible to be made either by life, wealth, intelligence or words. Every one has got some of the above assets of the above four principles if not at least one of them must we have and we can engagethem in the service of the Lord. Srimad Bhagwatam gives all informa- tions to attain the highest perfection of life both duing the continuation of the present life as well as in the life after death. I shall request you with all humility to co-operate with this mission and thus be- benefitted yourself. It is not the least exag- geration but actual fact and to become a member for this mission will to your own interest. And help others also who may be known to you. I am requesting you to give me at least ten members from Agra as you have al- reay given one yesterday and I am thank- ing you once more. Kindly address all correspondence to my Box No. 1846 to ensure safe delivery. G. P.O. Post Box No. 1846, Delthi-6. Awaiting your early reply, Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 64-5 FOREIGN FORWARDING LETTERS. DearSir, With due respect I beg to request you to look into the papers despatched to -your address under separate Book Post. In that book post you will find one copy of my theistic fortnightly paper BACK TO GODHEAD broadcasting ex- clusively everything about the Supreme Personality of Godhead. These topics about Godhead are delineated in a manner for understanding of any common man and it is high time that people of the world should now know about the Supreme Truth when they have had tried enough and failed in the matter of establishing peace in the world by so much attempt. The fact is that we all living energies in different species of life are all individual parts and parcels of the Supreme Energotic person as the son is the part and parcel of the father. The whole creation including all material or spiritual planes and planets are different parts and parcels of One Unit only but there are immense diversities in unity for variegatedness is the necessary paraphernalia of eternal pleasure which we are all seeking in the wrong way without the right information to have it. BACK TO GODHEAD can direct the right way of such happiness even in the material field by the simple adjustment of re-establishing our lost relation with God- head. We wish that people may kindly read this paper for some time with due at- tention and critical gravity. We are always 74 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda prepared to answer any relevent question in this regard from any quarter who may be seeking after the Absolute Truth. Although the messages contained in the pages of BACK TO GODHEAD are all gifts of the ancient sages of India who actually realised the Absolute Truth, yet at the present moment the so called lead- ers of India are too much enamoured by the western way of material advancement of knowledge. They are completely ne- glecting the treasure house of knowledge left by the sages. You, gentlemen, of the Western Coun- tries have seen much about material sci- ence and yet peace is not within your control. In most cases you may be feeling the want of peace although you have enough in the matter. This basic defect of materialism remains undetected by the misleaders of India and therefore they are not serious about going BACK TO GOD- HEAD the ultimate aim of life’s journey. I am therefore seeking your help in broadcasting this message of spiritual value through your good institution. I shall request you to go through the lit- eratures sent to you per separate book post and let me know your reaction upon it. I am seeking your help for getting some addresses of the thoughtful men of your country who are leading the public opinion and to whom I may be able to send this important paper for consideration. Thanking you in anticipation and awaiting your early reply. Yours faithfully, A. C. Bhaktivedanta. 64-6 My dear Shastryji, I thank you for your granting me an in- terview yesterday morning but I was not successful in my mission because your dealing with me yesterday was more offi- cial than hearty. You asked me to send you my Srimad Bhagwatam Part II with a note. This is not only expensive for me but also troublesome for me. Any way as you wanted me to send you a note. I am abid- ing by your order but I am doubtful whether you will have any time to go through my notes. The first thing is that here is the copy of your letter which you sent me on after re- ceipt of the 1st part. [TEXT MISSING] I beg toenquire if you had some time to go through the 1st part. If you have not gone through it there is no use for the 2nd part. The whole thing is to be completed in sixty parts of 400 pages. It is a mighty pro- ject and I am doing it alone. Here with please find one picture & literature for the publication. If you would have gone through the 1st part you would have actually felt how much important work I have undertaken not only for the benefit of India but also for all the world. If you actually want good government not only for India but also for all the world over, you must promote the sales of this publication either or you may purchase some thousands of copies of this publica- tion of concessional rate & distribute both the same to all leading & thinking men of the world. Srimad Bhagwatam is a literature and it is specially needed at this hour of human disparity all over the world. So far I remember, you referred about the Education Ministry. But I may inform you that the Education Ministry has al- ready approved of this publication and Special Sanskrit officer is purchasing 50 copies per volume. You can however order your other min- istry to purchase 50 copies of each volume and distribute them as they like. 1960-65 75 The American Embassy is also pur- chasing 18 copies of each volume. You have desired that this important publication may be introduced in the of all Govnt unification. And if you do help me in this discretion, then I can peacefully finish up the job. I think the Government would have given me all encouragement for attempt- ing such important work but I have not been so engaged till now. It is better late than never and I wish that in your Govern- ment I may not be neglected. 65-1 New York 27th October, 1965 Madam Sumati Morarji Baisaheba, Please accept my greetings. I am very glad to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated the 9th instant and have noted the contents. Since I have landed in U.S.A. I have improved in my health and I am very glad to see that in America practically ev- erything is available for our Indian vege- tarian dishes. By the grace of Lord Krishna the American are prosperous in every respect and they are not poverty stricken like the Indians. The people in general are satisfied so far their material needs are concerned and they are spiritu- ally inclines. When I was in Butler, Penn- sylvania about 500 miles from the New York city, I saw there many churches and they were attending regularly. This shows that they are spiritually inclines. I was also invited by some churches church- governed schools and colleges and I spoke there and they appreciated and presented me some token rewards. When I was speaking to the students they were very much eagerly hearing me about the prin- ciples of Srimad Bhagwatam rather the clergymen were cautious to allow the stu- dents to hear me so patiently. They thought that the students may not be con- verted into Hindu ideas as it is quite natu- ral for any religious sect. But they do not know that the devotional service of the Lord (Sri Krishna) is the common religion for every one including the aborigens and the canibals in the jungles. Any way sofar I have studied the American peopie they are very much ea- ger to learn about the Indian way spiritual realisation and there are so many so called Yoga ashramas in America. Unfortu- nately they are not very much adored by the Government and it is heard that such yoga ashramas have exploited the inno- cent people as it has been the case in India also. The only hope is that they are spiri- tually inclined and immense benefit can be done to them if the Cult of Srimad Bhagwatam is preached here. The American public also give recep- tion to the Indian art and music. So many of them come and every one of them is given good reception. Recently one dancer from Madras came here (Bala- saraswati) and just to see the mode of re- ception, I went to see the dance with a friend although for the last forty years I have never attendeed such dance cere- mony. The dancer was successful in her demonstration. The music was in Indian classical tune mostly in sanskrit language and the American public appreciated them. So I was encouraged to see the fa- vaourable circumstances about my future preaching work. The Bhagwat cult is preached also through the art of music and dance as it was done by Lord Chaitanya. I am just thinking of introducing the very same sys- tem for my Bhagwatam preaching but I have no means. The Christian missionary people are backed by huge resources and they preach the Christian cult all over the world. Similarly the devotees of Lord Krishna may also combine together to start the mission of preaching Bhagwatam cult all over the world. It is not for serving 76 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda any political purpose but it is necessary to preach cult for saving thepeople in general from the dangerous tendency of Godless- ness. The Christian cult or any other cult cannot save the people from being under the clutches of the growing communism but the Bhagwatam cult cansave them be- cause of its philosophical and scientific approach. I am therefore thinking of bringing a Samkirtan party from India but I do not know how to do it. Unless there is an or- ganised party or association it is very dif- ficult to do it. The Rama Krishna Mission here is busy in preaching a misrepresenta- tion and therefore practically they have failed to preach the real cult of India. The so called Yogis also could not establish the real cult of Bhagwat Geeta. They are after material gains. The Bhagwat Cult is not there at all although it is the only remedy for raising the people in the world in the path of self realisation and spiritual salva- tion. I do not know what is in the mind of Lord Bala Krishna but I think that your at- tention to give an impetus to the Bhagwat cult and my humble attempt can serve great purpose. By the grace of the Lord you have a great position in the world and it is learnt that you are one of the richest woman in the world. But above all you are a pious lady with great devotion for Lord Bala Krishna and you can do a lot in this connection. By the Grace of Lord Bala Krishna you are also free from all family encum- brances and as I have see you in your Palm Ban house, you live like a sage and a Ta- paswini. I wish that you may take up this idea of Bhagwatam preaching work a little more seriously. What I want that immedi- ately a society for this purpose may be formed and that will be recognised by the Government forcultural activity. So many cultural mission come here from India at the expense of Government and they sim- ply waste the money. But if there is a real cultural mission for preaching the Bhagwatam cult a great philanthropic work will be done for the human society at large. I am just giving you the idea and if you kindly think over the matter seriously and consult your beloved Lord Bala Krishna surely you will be further enlight- ened in the matter. There is scope and there is necessity also and it is the duty of every Indian specially the devotees of Lord Krishna to take up the matter. I shall be gald to hear from you about my humble suggestions per return of mail. Hope you are well. With my best re- gards, I am Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. N.B. I am very glad to note the last line of your letter under reply in which you write to say “‘I feel that if you should stay there till you fully recover from your illness and return only after you have completed your mission.” Yes I wish to stay here for all the days till I have finished the mission of life to preach Bhagwat Cult very rightly and for this very reason only I have suggested the above means and ways. If you kindly co- operate informing a society for this pur- pose with your great influence surely all Indians will combine and thus we can ful- fill the mission very nicely declaring the glories of India. Please do it for the Lord’s sake. 65-2 New York November 6th, 1965 My dear daughter Sally, I am so glad to receive your very affec- tionate letter of the 3rd instant and have noted the contents carefully. Yes I have got this nice typewriter by the Grace of the Lord and I am very much satisfied with it working. Before receiving your letter 1960-65 77 under reply I have sent two letters both to you and Gopal. I understand that you have received them. In one of them I have re- quested Gopal to despatch 25 sets of books to Paragon Book Gallery and I am anxious to know if the books are aiready despatched. Regarding your reminder for my good cooking, I am very much thankful to you and next time when I shall go to your home, I must serve you with good lunches without fail. Now I am far away from you otherwise I would have at once gone to you and entertained you with such lunches. I am anxious to learn about the health of you all specially of your little children. How is your naughty daughter Kamla. Please offer them my love and blessings and so also accept both of you. Please write to me occasionally and as Gopal is not accustomed to reply promptly I shall henceforward write to you. Did you meet your good father and mother in the meantime? If you meet them please offer them my respectful regards. Both your father and mother are good souls and therefore you are a good daugh- ter of your parents. I remember all of you always. Please offer my good wishes to your frineds who still remember me. I shall meet them again when I go to Butler. I like Butler more than New York and specially the quarters in which your home is situa- ted. Had I had the means to rent a house independently I would have gone back again to Butler and hold my Bhagwatam discourses daily with good friends. So far I have studied the American ‘minds they are eager and apt to receive Bhakti Cult of Srimad Bhagwatam be- cause the Christian religion is based on the same principle. My mission is notturn any one from the affiliation of a particular religion but I want to let them know more knowledge about God and devotion. Dr. Rammutrti Mishra is also very kind gentleman and I am living very comfort- ably at his care. He is keen after looking my all kinds of comforts. I am negotiating with some booksellers and publishers and I hope I shall be able to settle something before I leave for the next station. I shall be New York still for a few days more and I shall let you know when I leave the sta- tion. I am so grateful to your kindness and surely I shall ask you if I need anything. I have left my hearth and home in India but here by the Grace of the Lord I have got good sons and daughter like you. So I do not feel any foreign complexion. Hope you are all well and awaiting your early reply, Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. 65-3 New York November 8th, 1965 Pujaniya Srila Tirtha Maharaj, Kindly accept respectful obeisances at your lotus feet. Since I have come to the United States of America I had several corresponce with Sripad Govinda Ma- haraj. While I was in Calcutta at that time as well as in our different exchange of let- ters there was some hint from Sripad Govinda Maharaj, I should work in co-operation with your holiness and in my last letter I have already expressed my readiness to co-operate with your holiness and I ahd to ask from Govinda Maharaj as to the basic principle of that co-operation. Before I took Sanyas perhaps you will re- member it that I proposed to join you if my publications were taken up. But some how or other it was not possible and we missed the chance. Now here is a second chance and with- out undergoing a long series of correspon- dence with Govind Maharaj, I am directly writing you about my intention. Srila Prabhupad had a strong desire toopenour 78 Letters from Srila Prabhupada preaching centres in the Western coun- tries and both Bon Maharaj and Goswami Maharaj were deputed for this purpose without any tangible result. I have come to this country with the same purpose in view and as far as I see it here in America there is very good scope for preaching the cult of Lord Chaitanya. Here the Ramkrishna Mission is there for the last forty years and I attended their two centres here and I found there is no appre- ciable gatherings. Vivekananda preached for Daridra Narayan seva and the practical Americans question the swamijis of Ramkrishna Mission why there are still so many Daridra Narayans lying on the streets and foot and paths in India. In America there is no such scene of Daridra Narayans lying on the foot path or in other words there is no question of Daridra Na- rayan here because every one has ample to eat and there immense vacant places for their homes. I have not seen a single spot here which is not nicely decorated with good houses and nice roads. Actually they have built a properous country in this part of the world and so material prosperity is concerned they are happy in everyres- pect. So naturally there is spiritual hankerings and because India is well known for her spiritual assets they more inclined to take something spiritual from the East. But unfortunately either the Ra- makrishna Mission or the Yogis have not delivered the goods they want. I had a talk the other day with Swami Nikhilanand of the Ramakrishna Mission and he also opined that the Americans are just suit- able for the Bhakti Yoga cult and that is also my opinion. I am here and see here a good field for work but I am alone without men and money. To start a centre here we must have our own buildings. The Ramkrishna Mission or any other mission which are working here all ahve their own buildings. So if we want to start a centre here we must have also our own building. To have a own building means to pay at least Rs500000/-five lacs or one hundred thou- sand dollars. And to furnish the house with up to date paraphernalia means an- other two lacs. If attempt is made this money can be had also. But I think for es- tablishijg Matha and temples here you may take the charge and I shall be able to make them self independent. There is dif- ficulty of exchange and I think unless you have some special arrangement for start- ing a branch of Chaitanya Math transfer of money will be difficult. But if you can do so with the help of the Bengal or Central Government, here is good chance to open immediately a centre in New York. I am negotiating with some brokers here who can give us a house and they have sug- gested like above. Without our own house it will not be possible to open our own centre. For me it will take long time but for you it is very easy. The Calcutta Marwaries are in your hand by the Grace of Srila Prabhupada. If you like you can immediately raise a fund of Rs10,00,000/- ten lacs to open a centre in New Work. One centre started, I shall be able to start many others also. So here is a chance of co-operation between us and I shall be glad to know if you are ready for this co-operation. I came here to study the situation and I find it very nice and if you are also agreeable to cooperate with it will be all very nice by the will Srila Prabhu- pada. So I am writing you directly this let- ter to elicit your opinion. If you agre then take it for granted that I am one of the worker of the Sri Mayapur Chaitanya Ma- tha. I have no ambition for becoming the proprietor of any Matha or Mandir but I want working facilities. I am working day and night for my Bhagwatam publication and I centres in the western countries. If I am successful to start a centre in New york, then my next attempt will be start one inCalifornia and Montreal where 1960-65 719 there are many Indians also. There is am- ple scope for working but unfortunately we have simply wasted time by quarreling with one another while the Ramakrishna Mission with misrepresentation have made their position all over the world. Al- though they are no so popular in these for- eign countries they have made a great propaganda only and as a result of such propaganda they are very prosperous in India while the Goudiya Math people are starving. We should now come to our senses. If possible join with our other godbrothers and let us make an effort combinedly to preach the cult of Gour Hari in every cities and villages of the western countries. If you agree to cooperate with me as I have suggested above, then I shall extend my Visa perios. My present Visa period ends by the end of this November. But if I receive your confirmation immediately then I shall extend my Visa period other- wise I shall return to India. Immediately I want some good assistants to work with me. They must be educated and able to talk in English as also read Sanskrit nicely. For preaching here two alnguages Enlish and Sanskrit will be very much ap- preciated. I think under your leadership every camp of our god brothers should supply a man good for this purpose and they must agree to work under my direc- tion. If that is possible then you will see how our beloved Srila Prabhupada will be satisfied on all of us. I think we shall all forget now the past fratricidal war and now come forwad for a good cause. If they are not agree able then do it yourself and I am at your service. Please therefore con- sider this and let me know by wire if you are agreeable. Ohtherwise I shall not ex- tend my visa period but I shall return to India withoutbeing able to do anything tangible at my first tour. Hope you will take this matter as very urgent and let me know your decision by immediate return of post or by wire to my above address and oblige. Hope you are all well and thanking you in anticipation. Yours obediently. 65-4 New York 10th November, 1965 Madam Sumati Morarji Baisaheba, Please accept my greetings and bless- ing of Lord Bala Krishna. I hope you have already received my letter of the 27th ul- timo and I hope to receive your reply very soon. And in continuation of my letter as abovementioned I beg to inform you that the number of Hiranyakasipus and Ravanas in this age of Kali increased more than that in other Yugas. Hiranyakasipus are always enomical with the devotees of the Lord even such devotee happens to be a son. Hiranyakasipu persecuted Prahlada although he was a boy of 5 years old and a beloved son of Hiranyakasipu. As I have already informed you that the American people in general are very much inclined to receive something from Indian culture of spiritual knowledge, they would be a first class reciepient for the Bhagwatam culture provided an or- ganised attempt is made for this purpose. The organised method is like this. They should have association of bonafide devo- tees of the Lord, they should join the Kir- tan glorifying the Lord, they should hear the teachings of Srimad Bhagwatam, they should have intimate touch with the tem- ple or place of the Lord and they should be given ample chance to worship the Lord in the temple. Under the guidance of a bona- fide devotee they can be given such facili- ties and the way of Srimad Bhagwatam is open for every one. Apart from civilised men like the Americans even the Kirata, Andhra, Pulinda, Pukkasa, Abhira, Sum- bha, Yavana, Khasadaya or any other lower caste, all of them can be trained up 80 Letters from Srila Prabhupada to be devotees of the Lord under proper guidance of a pure and bonafide devotee. That is the instruction of Sukadeva Go- swami imparted to Maharaj Parikshit. I think therefore that a Temple of Bala- krishna in New York may immediately be started for this purpose and as devotee of Lord Bala Krishna you should execute this great and noble work. Till nowthere is no worshipable temple of the Hindus in New York although in India there are so many American missionary establishments and churches. So I shall request you to do this noble act and it will be recorded in the his- tory of the world that the first Hindu tem- ple is started by a pious Hindu Lady SRIMAT SUMATI MORARJI who is not only a big business magnet in India but a pious Hindu Lady a great devotee of Lord Krishna Krishna. This task is for you and glorious at the same time. Simply by casual lectures there is no possiblity of any tangible work but the abovementioned standard work will do impress the people what actually the Hindu culture is. I have already seen a nice house for this purpose and if you pur- chase that house for this purpose as your personal property and give the facility of working then you will see how the mission of Bhagwati cult is being preached here in America beginning from New York. I do not wish to disclose the names ofthe Hira- nyakasipus here in America who are gainst this Bhagwat preaching. There are so many Indian missionaries like the Ra- makrishna Mission, Sivananda Mission etc and all of them are against Bhagwatam culture and every one of them has refused to give facility to speak on the Bhagwati culture. Each of them have their own house but instead of worshipping the Su- preme Lord they have created their own God and they try to put such manufac- tured gods to compete with Lord Krishna. So unless there is a place for me and facility to work systematically, my Bhagwati Mission will not be workable in this place. I have no ambition to become the proprietor of any temple or house house in America because what shall I do with them after becoming a Sanyasi but for the facility of work our own house is absolutely required. Please therefore purchase a house here in New York and let me work very seri- ously for this mission of Bhagwatam cul- ture and I am sure that your goodness will not only be recognised by the Lord by you will be recognised by the whole Hindu community. Please take up this work very seriously and on hearing from you with- out delay I shall let you know further de- tails. My term to stay in America wil be fin- ished by the 17th November 1965 but be- lieving on your foretelling “you should stay there till you fully [TEXT MISSING] hope, I shall be able to get them. The house which I have seen for this purpose is just suitable for this great missionary work as if it was built for this purpose only and your simple willingness to do the act will complete everything smoothly. And thinking that you will agree to this I am just giving you an idea of the space etc. 1. Dimensions 186” x 102’2”’. Fully air conditioned by 10 ton central unit. 2. Bronze front approximately 4500 square feet. 3. The house is practically three storied. Ground floor basement and two stories up with all suitable arrangement for gas heat etc. The ground flor may be utilised for prepa- ration Prasdam of Blala Krishna because the preaching centres will not be for dry speculations only but for actual gain for delicious Prasdam. I have already tested how the people here like the Vegetable Prasadam prepared by me. They will for- get meat eating and they will pay for the expenses. The American are not poor 1960-65 81 men like the Indian and if they appreciate a thing they are prepared to spemd any ammount for such hobby. They are being exploited by simply jugglery of words and bodily gymnastics and still they are spending for that. But when they will have the actual commodity and feel pleasure by eating very delicious Prasadam of Bala Krishna I am sure an unique thing will be introduced in America. As soon as every- thing is arranged, I shall bring my assist- ants from India to help me in all details. The price of the house is $1 10,000 sub ject to alteration and other expenses $5,144. Immediately cash may be paid on $35,000 and the balance by monthly instalments to be completed in 15 years or the whole amount may be paid at once without [TEXT MISSING] 65-5 New York 13th November, 1965 My dear daughter Sally, I thank you very much for your letter of the 9th instant and I am very glad to note that your little Bijo is growing to be more adventurous now a days. Generally the son acquires the qualities of the mother and the daughter acquires the qualities of the father. And such children become happy in life. You have acquired the quali- ties of your intelligent father and your son will be as intelligent as you are and thus your son will be as good as your noble fa- ther. I wish that you be happy more and more with your growing children. You can take me also as Old Bijo and therefore even at my ripe old age I have taken some adventurous task and as your little Bijo re- quires your help always in his little adven- tures so also your old Bijo requires your help in his adventures in America. Yes I am living here in a precarious condition and I wish to leave this place at any time. There is a room suitable for me but the lady wants $55.00 per month which I cannot pay. But there is a good suggestion for you also. If you be inter- ested in your improvement of economic condition I would suggest you to start a lu- crative business in New York. As you have liked my cooking so also here all the friends who have tasted my cooking have liked it. And by this I am suggesting you whay dont you start an Indian rstaurant here in New York? I am sure if you start a business like that you will earn at least $2000.00 a month nett. This is not a dream but actual fact. In New York there are so many restaurants and all of them are full with customers so I thought like that you should also start a restaurant supply- ing new palatable dishes and they would like them surely. There are about three hundred item of good vegetable prepara- tions and if they are introduced in America it will be recorded in the history of America. People will foreget meat eat- ing. I do not say that cent percent people in America will be vegetarian but I am sure that at least the higher section will turn to be vegetarian if they get such nice vegetable dishes. Why not intoduce this new thing in America and help my mis- sion also at the same time. It will be very profitable business and I wish that you may earn your fortune and help my mis- sion at one stroke. This west 72nd street is just in the cen- tre of the city and I see there is a suitable place also now vacant for this restaurant business and if you come here for a day or two you can see the place and decide if you can star the business. The house is suit- able for residence of the restaurant keeper and you see all these personally if you come here for a day or two. If you com- ehere there will be no inconvenience for you because there is one lady friend at west 108th street and she will be very glad to accommodate you for a day or two. I 82 Letters from Srila Prabhupada think you should come and see the pros- pect of the business. Iam sure you will get very good profit if you start this business and I shall teach you how to prepare nive vegetable dishes. I wish that you may con- sider this proposal a little seriously and decide to come here for a day or two. Yes I have extended my visa period up to Ist April 1966 by paying ten dollars but I do not know how I shall live. Another ship of Scindia Navigation is starting on the 17th November but my negotiation with some publisher is not yet finished. The Paragon Book Gallery has received the 25 twenty five set of books as sent by Gopal. The arrangement is that after sell- ing the 25 setsthey will pay the money and further sets will be taken. Similarly I may arrange with other booksellers in Los Angelos because it learnt that in Califor- nia people are more interested in such books. But I cannot go to Calfornia for want of money. Besides that I have to em- bark on ship from New York. California is 3000 miles away from here and it is better to return to India from California diretly without coming back here. But I have got my return ticket from New York. So I am not very fixed up what to do or not. The first consideration is that I must be in New York at least for ten to fifteen days more for deciding the publication af- fair and then I may leave this place for In- dia or Calfornia. But the place where I am living now has so many inconveniences which I do not wish to narrate in this small letter. Yes I am taking my meals once only for this inconvenience. In the evening I take some milk and fruit and now a days the night being very long, I feel some- times for this night starvation. Yes there was all darkness in New York on the 10th instant and it was not a happy incident. I learn that may people re- mained in the elevators and in the subway trains for more than seven to eight hours in darkness. I do not read newpapers but there must have been some mishaps also which we may not know. That is the way of material civilisation too much depending on machine. At any time the whole thing may collapse and therefore we may not be self complacent depending so much on ar- tificial life. The modern life of civilisation depends wholly on electricity and petrol and both of them are artificial for man. You will be surprised to know that I had to take help of the old crude method of light- ening by burning some vegetable oil and use the samll bowl as lamp to save myself from the extreme darkness. I could not procure any candle from the shop but by the Grace of Krishna one friend Mr. Bill happened to come and he arranged for some fruits and candle. Yes in India we such experience failure of electricity but I was surprised to see the same thing in America. In India the village people say that in Europe (Vilait) also there is ass. And I saw it practically that it is true. Even in such an advanced country there may be possibility such failure but failure in America is more dangerous than that in India. In India they are not so much de- pendent on electricity but in America the whole activity is dependent on electricity and think on that night it was a great deal of loss to the American nation. Any way the danger is passed but from the papers it is learnt the loss is very great. I do not feel much cold now but it is learnt that it will increase more and more and before that I wish to leave this place. But if you start the business I am sure I shall be very com- fortable at your good motherly care. If you decide to come for a day or two please drop me a letter immediately when you are coming. More when we meet and hope you are all well. With my blessings and good wishes for you all. Awaiting your reply. Yours affectionately, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. 1960-65 83 65-6 New York 19th November, 1965 My dear daughter Sally, I beg to thank you for your kind letter of the 16th instant and I have noted the contents carefully. I am glad to learn that you had been to your parents house for a few days and now you have returned home. I am still more glad to learn that you are going to observe the third birthday of Miss Kamala Agarwal on Saturfay next. On this occasion I should have pre- sented her some ornaments but as I am a Sannyasi I can simply offer my blessing for her long life and good prosperity. She cannot now read otherwise at least I should have presented a set of my books. But you set aside one set of my books for her future reading when she will grow up a beautiful and educated girls with full godconsciousness. I am obliged to your good daughter for awarding me a good de- gree as SWAMIJESUS which is actually a great honour for me. Some time the Lord speaks throgh inocent child and I take this honour as sent by Lord Jesus through an innocent child free from all formalities of the current society. Lord Jesus preached the message of God and I have taken up the same mission, and it would be a good luck for me if I can follow the foot prints of Lord Jesus who preached the message of God inspite of all persecution. Lord Je- sus is a living example how one has to suf- fer in this material world simply for the matter of preaching the message of God. In Bhagwatam also there is another exam- ple like Lord Jesus. He is Prahlad Ma- haraj a boy of five years old but because he was a great devotee of God and preaching the message of God among his little class mates, his athist father tried to kill him. So the atheist class of men are always enimical to the devotees of God even though such devotee happens to be the atheist’s son like Prahlad. I proposed for starting the restaurant with a view that you may become one of richest family in America. One can be- come rich only by trying his luck in busi- ness. It is not possible by serving other. One should have independent source of income that is possible only if one is en- gaged in business or in land lordship. If you can invest $20,000/- in a property in New York which is worth $100,000/-, you can have at least $1000/- permonth as the rent of the house. So that in 15 years time you become the proprietor of good huse in New york which would fetch you $1000/- rent per month. That is my next proposal. I think you can invest $20000/- some way or other and if you can please do it imme- diately because that is chance also. You can send me $40/- and it will help me going over California. I have decided like this. I am expecting a letter of recep- tion from Calfornia and if I get it then I shall start for the country otherwise by the first week of December next I shall return to India. If I return to India then I shall re- turn your money before I start otherwise I shall spend it for my California journey. I hope you are all enjoying good health and with my blessings for you all, Iam Yours affectionately, 65-7 New York 23rd November, 1965 Pujaniya Sripad Tirtha Maharaj, May it please your holiness. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 17th in- stant and although it is not very encourag- ing still as I am not a man to be disappointed, I take courage from your letter as you write to say that there is poosibility to raise the fund but it will take some time. Expecting your reply in the above spirit I had some correspondence with the broker firm and the latest reply which I 84 Letters from Srila Prabhupada have received from them is joined here- with please find. “Dear Sir, In answer to your letter of November 16 regarding the property for sale on West 72nd Street. This is located at 143 West 72nd Street. It is 18.6 by 100.2. contains a store and basement both the same size and a mezzanine. The owner is asking $100,000 for the property with $20,000 cash and will make good terms on a first mortgage that they will take back. As I have the keys, you can call at me for an appointment to see the prop- erty. Yours very sincerely Sd/Louis Baun for Phillips, Wood Dolson, Inc.” So I have seen the property and the whole space is twice as much as your Re- seach Institute building on the road which is just in the central part of the city with all good facilities. Now if you decide to pur- chase the property, I can assure you that the building is just suitable for our pur- pose and it is almost on the same style as your Research institure. The basement can be used as cooking and dinning de- partment, the store as the lecture hall and mazzanine for installing the Sri Vigraha and personal appartment. The building is quite suitable and once started it will be possible to raise fund by lectures and membership fees etc by suitable arrange- ment. So the immediate investment is about $25,000 and I think this ammount you can arrange immediately and just start a branch of your Sri Chaitanya Math or designate the branch as New York Goudiya Math. The idea is very nice to think of and it will be a nice reply to the local Ramkrishna Mission who indirectly denied to allow me lecturing in their hall. You will be glad to know that my lecturing propaganda is going on and so long I re- main here it will go on without any ham- per. Recently one lecture of mine is arranged in our Indian Government House (New India House) organised by the Tagore Society of New York who or- ganise such meeting only for the most dis- tinguished persons. The consul and other officers of the New India House are im- pressed with my book and practically the 2nd officer (consul) is arranging the meet- ing inviting all distinguished gentlemen both Indian and American with Tea Party. The copy of the invitation letter is also subjoined herewith. “The Tagore Society of New York Inc. Cordially Invites You to a lecture “GOD CONSCIOUSNESS” by A.C. BHAKTIVEDANTA SWAMI Date: Sunday, November 28,1965. Time: Lec- ture, 3:30 PM. Tea, 4:30 PM. Place: New India House, 3, East 64th Street. A widely respected Scholar and religious leader in India Swami Bhaktivedanta is briefly visiting New York. He has been en- gaged in the monumental endeavour of translating the sixty volume “Srimad Bhagwatam” from Sanskrit into English. etc. So my lecturing or appointing one selling agent here for my books is already finished and if I remian such many lec- tures can be arranged in different parts of the country. One Dr. Choudhry is pre- pared to arrange for my lectures in San Francisco, Los Angelos etc but in my opinion such casual lectures may be a good personal advertisement but factually they do not make any permanent effects. But if there is a centre of activity for at- tracting people as you are doing in the Re- search Institute, the people can be trained up in the cult by regular association and hearing the transcendental sound of Sri- mad Bhagwatam. Now we have got our English Srimad Bhagwatam and there will be no difficulty to impress the audiance with our Siddhantas and any intelligent man impressed with our Siddhantas will certainly change his life’s mode of action. I think you may take up this suggestion very seriously and immediately start the centre and other things will autonatically follow. And above all this is to satisfy the transcendental desire of Srila Prabhupada 1960-65 85 who desired very enthusiastically to start centres like that in the foreign countries. If you want to start the centre on rented house, the rent will not be less than three’ to four hundred dollars but the space will be one fourth of the house as we want to purchase. If you agree kindly confirm it by wire so that I can ask the broker to stay the house for some time for sale to other party. The Cristian churches are not very favourable in the matter of increasing the Hindu religious institutions as it is natural to think with sectarian views. I hope you will accept this proposal and confirm it by wire on receipt this letter by the end of this month. Hope youare all well and with my humble obeisances for all the Vaishnavas. I am your obediently, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. 1966 1966 89 New York 14th January, 1966 66-1-1 Mr. A. B. Hartman New York City Dear Sir, Re: Your House 143 W. 72nd Street for sale. Please accept my greetings. Perhaps you may know me by my name because I am in correspondence with Mr. Baum of Messrs. Phillips, Wood Dolson Inc. in connection with your house at 143 W.72nd Street. As I do not know your of- fice address so I contacted by phone Mrs Hartman and she was very kind to talk with me. I have already left with me a pa- per on my mission for which I wanted the pace. The thing is that Government of India is very Strict in getting money from India for expenditure in foreign country. But be- cause the Prime Minister was due to come here and he was personally known to me, I expected to get his special sanction for this purpose and the copy of the letter which I sent him is also enclosed herewith for your reference. Now the Prime Minister Mr. Lal Baha- dur Shastri is suddenly dead and I am greatly perplexed. I do not know whether you have read the paper left with Mrs. Hartman and therefore I am again enclos- ing a second copy of the same for your kind perusal. The cause is very great and the best advantage of the activity will be enjoyed by the Americans. As there is now great difficulty for get- ting money from India therefore I am re- questing you to allow me the place for use of the International Institution For God- consciousness at least for some time. The house is lying vacant for so many days without any use and I learn it that you are paying the taxes insurance and other charges for the house although you have no income from there. If you however al- low this place for this public institution you shall at least save the taxes and other charges which you are paying now for nothing. If I can start the institution immedi- ately certainly I shall be able to get sym- pathy locally and in that case I may not be required to get money from India. I am also requesting your honour to become one of the Directors of this public institu- tion because you will give a place to start the institution. Thanking you in anticipa- tion for an early reply. Yours very sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosures: 4 66-1-2 20th January, 1966 My dear Sripad Bon Maharaj, Please accept my humble dandabats. I beg to thank you for your kind letter of the 14th instant. I am very glad to learn that your first part of Bhakti Rasamrita Sindhu is now out and shall be glad if you send me one copy so that I can show to persons who are interested in my Srimad Bhagwa- tam. I am also glad to learn that you are now thinking of New York on receipt of my letter and it may be that you have to come here again if there is the Radha Krishna Temple as contemplated. The money is there, the Deities are there, the house is there, the men are there but the sanction is not there. Your residence was somewhere near the Columbia University I think. Temple idea is prompted in me be- cause I feel that Srila Prabhupada wanted to open some temples in the foreign coun- tries. Personally I have no aptitude to open temples neither I have done it in 90 Letters from Srila Prabhupada India although there were many great op- portunities. But here see there is necessity even from the point of Hindu cultural view. There is not a single Hindu temple here at least in New York or all the places so far I have travelled in this country. Re- garding management of the temple is con- cerned for the present i have called for one of my of my disciples from Delhi. If other persons from our so many camps wnat to come here I shall welcome and I think af- ter the temple is started some men even from America may be available as I see there are in the Ramakrishna Mission as well as in so many Yoga societies. So Iamtrying to open a temple here be- cause Srila Prabhupada wanted it. Kindly therefore help me in this direction as far as you can. I am thankful to you for taking so much trouble in taking the estimate of dei- ties. But before having the Deities there is great stumbling block of Exchange diffi- culty. My money in India is ready but I must have the exchange, by special sanc- tion of the Government of India. I was so hopeful to get it because Lal Bahadur Shastri was known to me and he was to visit America. I arranged an interview with him during his visit in America through the Embassy here but his sudden death has put me into great difficulty. As soon as the temple is started, I am sure to get help locally but to start the temple I must have Indian money first. I am there- fore asking your co-operation and help in this connection. I am requesting you to see Dr. Radhakrishnan and get me the sanction for Indian exchange for this cul- tural mission. This is not an ordinary tem- ple of worship but it is an international institution for Godconsciousness based on the Srimad Bhagwatam. This is stan- dard Indian good will mission. ‘Lokasya ajanato vidwans chakre stwata samhita ” The Government of India has its own de- partment of culture and goodwill mission which is utilised for dancing parties to make show in the foreign countries. Here is the real culture and I am not asking any money from the Government but I am simply asking permission to transfer my money here for this great cultural mission of Srila Vyasdeva the Father of Vedic wis- dom which is real Indian culture. When Dr. Radhakrishnan was vice president of India I had lots of personal correspon- dence and meetings with him and at that time he promised me help in this connec- tion. I hope he will remember all these and I am requesting him through your good office to help me now to get the req- uisite exchange from India for this great and noble work. He is more or less ac- quainted with the activities of the Goudiya Math preachers like your holiness, Srila Teertha Maharaj and he know me also in this connection. We are all sincere work- ers for respiritualising the whole world situation and Dr. Radhakrishnan being man in the line and being in the highest position of the Indian Government, he must help us in this critical moment. It is not personal but for the welfare of the en- tire humanity and considering all these he may be kind enough to sanction this ex- change immediately so that I may start it without delay. I strongly wish that I may take psses- sion of the house for the temple on the day of Srila Prabhupada’s Abhirva Teethi and if your holiness will at once see Dr. Radhakrishnan and take the sanction, I think my desire to take possession of the house on the above mentioned date will be possible. As I am out of India it is not pos- sible to see him personally and therefore I am requesting you to see him. Besides that the matter being concerned directly with service of Srila Prabhupada both youand I are equally interested and I hope most sin- cerely that you will do this act very promptly and seriously. If need be youcan show this letter to Dr. Radhakrishna in or- der to convince him and offer him my 1966 91 good wishes and respects for him. Thanking you in anticipation and awaiting your early reply. Yours affectionately, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. New York 20th January, 1966 66-1-3 My dear Sir Padampat, Please accept my greetings and bless- ings of Sri Sri Dwarkadhish Maharaj. With thanks I beg to acknowledge receipt of your kind letter dated 14th January 1966 and I have noted the contents very carefully. The two points of difficulties as shown by you are quite right because without sanction of the Government we cannot proceed a step even in this connec- tion. And as pointed out in my last letter I have full responsibility for this. I was al- most certain to get this sanction from our Late Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri who was personally known to me in con- nection with my publication Srimad Bhagwatam. He was to come here in America and in New York on the 4th of February next and I arranged for an inter- view with him by negotiation with the lo- cal consulate General. The copy of the letter addressed to our late Prime Minister is also enclosed herewith for your perusal. Now as soon as I came to know about the sudden death news of Shastri, I thought of the President Dr. Radha- krishnan as the next man to get the sanc- tion because he is also personally known to me. I have already approached him through some mutual friend to get this sanction and I am awaiting the result sooner or later. And as soon as I hear of the sanction, I shall at once let you know the result. I am very glad to learn it that you wish to construct a Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna with nice architecture and the idea is quite appropriate for a personality of your position. You are a great devotee of Lord Dwarkadhis traditionally. Lord Dwarkadhish exhibited His opulence at Dwarka with sixteen thousands of queen and it is understood that He built up as many palaces for each and every queen and the palaces were so made with jewels and stones that there was no necessity of artificil light in the palaces. So your con- ception of building temple of Lord Krishna is in opuence. But we our resi- dents of Vrindaban and Vrindaban has no palaces like your Dwarka. Vrindaban is full of forest and cows on the bank of the Yamuna and Lord Kridhna in His child- hood played the part of a cow boy without any royal opulence as you people inhabit- ants of Dwarka think. So when the Dwarkawalas and the Vrindabanwalas meet there may be a via media. The thing is that the idea of construct- ing a magnificent Temple in New York quite befitting the first city of the world, will cost you not lakhs but crores. Be- cause here the cost of land and other mate- rials and the labour charges all are fabulous. The labour charges here is not less than 12 dollars a day i.e Rs60/per day. Besides that you cannot get a vacant land in the New York city. You have to purchase a constructed house then dismantle it and then construct a Temple of your liking. I know it very well that by Grace of His Lordship Sri Sri Dwarkadhis and by the mercy of Laxmiji Rukminidevi, your ho- nour is quite competent to spend even crores and crores for this purpose but we must remember the difficulty of Ex- change. At this stage of critical hours the Government will hardly allow us to spend such huge amount. If they at all sanction the exchange they may allow for lakhs only and therefore I have suggested the es- timate as seven lakhs only. I have in view a very nice building for sale which is just the suitable for a temple 92 Letters from Srila Prabhupada to start with. The land of the house is about 19° x 100’ and although it is two storied it has a basement under ground and therefore it can be taken as three sto- ries. It is nicely built with air conditioning and heating arrangement with marbel staircase brass railings just suitable for a temple. The whole area is about 450 sq.feet and they are asking for 100,000 dollars that is five laks of rupees. And af- ter purchasing the house we can build an- other story upon it with temple dome and Chakra etc. So the estimate is about seven lakhs of rupees and for the present let us start in such way. The place is very impor- tant in the city. As your Dwarkadhis Tem- ple is situated in very important part of the city so this house is also situated in very important part of the mid city. Here in New Yor city there are three divisions namely the up town the mid town and the down town. The down town is full of busi- ness houses and office buildings whereas the down town is inhabited by most em- ployees and middle class of men. The mid town is in between the two and the house I have selected is approachable easily from both sides of the town. The situation is very important on account of stores, sub- way Station, post office, buses, banks ev- erything all at hand’s reach. If however cash is paid immediately the owner may come down to lesser price. This is ready building and we can start immediately the Bhagwatam preaching work and worship of the Sri Sri RadhaKrishna simultane- ously in this house. The house has to be nicely decorated for attracting men and philosophical top- ics on the basis of the Bhagwatam Phi- losophy has to be preached for the learned scholars and high grade men. As we get popularity so can get local sympath for the temple also. And it will be built up step by step and I am sure they will be very glad to receive the message and the train- ing as well if not by all but some of them. The owner of the house is prepared to accept the following terms as I have talked with them. Immediately 20,000 dollars cash and the balance by suitable arrange- ment of mortgage with 6% interest on the ammount I think we may pay him cash outright and reduce the price as far as pos- sible. Now taking for acceptance that Dr. Radhakrishna will give us the exchange sanction, we have to decide whether to pay outright cash or to accept the proposal of instalment. You may decide this in the meantime. And as soon as I receive the news of sanction, I shall let you know. If your man is to come here you may let me know the name and occupation of the per- sons so that I may arrange for his no ob- jection certificate without which passport will be issued. I will have to find out some sponsor for him otherwise no P form will be issued. So pending the sanction let us be prepared for all these paraphernalia. In the future if circumstances changes, and we get the opportunity for spending more money, at that time we can sell of this or keep it as the circumstances allow. For the present let us begin in this small scale and let be grown up in the natural way. Your honour is a great business magnet and you know better than me. J.K Organisation started by your grand father was increased by your father and under your manage- ment it has grown more than expectation by the Grace of Dharkadhis Maharaj. As the Pandavas were all devotees of Lord Krishna and thus in fields of activities they were victorious inspite much diffi- culties were put forward before them by the Kurus, similarly you are also always glorious because you and your family all are devotees of Lord Dwarkadhish. Your good mother is just like Kuntideve. The mission of Bhagwatam with which I have come here is altogether a new thing for the American. Still the most astonish- ing thing is that whenever and wherever I 1966 93 speak they take it very nicely. That is good sign for them. After my lecture they come to me and offer their thanks for the nice speech and accept the philosophy when they are spoken with human understand- ing. There is great difference between these people and our Indian people. In In- dia people are automatically tought spiri- tual life by tradition and these people are automatically taught to be materialistic. They are sincere undoubtedly but because they have no information of the Bhagwa- tam life, they appear to be different. It is the duty of every Indian to preach the cult of Bhagwatam in every part ofthe world and your co-operation in this attempt will be highly appreciated by Lord Dwarkadh- ish. Lord Krishna in the Bhagwata Geeta has said that one who helps in the matter of preaching the principles of Bhagwat Geeta is the most favourite of the Lord. So this knowledge should be distributed sys- tematically and we Indians specially the Hindus and more specially the Vaishnavi- tes must abide the instruction of Lord Krishna to distribute the knowledge all over the world. America is just in the middle. on one side of America is Europe and on theother side is Asia. So we can expand the Bhagwatam mission bothwise. On one side towards England, Germany, Italy etc and on the other side towards china Japan etc. If we sincerely do this work Lord Krishna will help us in so many ways and because you are a sincere devotee of the Lord, you have very kindly responded to my humble call. I am advising my man in Delhi to send you one set of my books (Three Volumes) of Srimad Bhagwatam English version and I hope you will relish them with great interest. I shall request you to find our some time for it and see it how Ihave been able to present the Bhagwatam Philoso- phy for understanding of the common man. Hope you are well and thanking you once more for your good co-operating spirit in the transcendental service of the Lord. Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosure:Copy of the letter addressed to the Prime Minister of India. By air mail. 66-2-1 New York 4th, February, 1966 My dear Sripad Teertha Maharaj, Kindly accept my humble dandabats, I am in due receipt of your kind letter of the lst instant and I am glad to note that you will get the Exchange sanction on receipt of the letter of the donor. The donor is a big business magnet of India and as re- quired by you I am enclosing here with the letter of Sri Padampat Singhania of the J.K. Organisations, Kamla Tower, Kan- pur dated 14th January 1966 which will speak for itself. I think you may also know the gentleman and he is competent to spend any amount for a nice temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna in New York. The Singhania family is traditionally devotees of Dwarkadhish and therefore they are the right persons to take upthis transcendental service of the Lord. Srila Prabhupada wanted such temples in foreign countries such New York, Lodon, Tokyo, etc and I had personal talks with him when I first met Himat Ultadingi in 1922. Now here is a chance for me tocarry put His transcen- dental Order and because you are Srila Prabhupada’s foremost and favourite dis- ciple and actually engaged in His service, I am just seeking your favour and mercy in making this attempt successful. Every- thing is ready namely the house is ready, 94 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda the donor is ready and my humble service on the spot is also ready. Now you are to give the finishing touch because you are most affectionate disciple of His Divine Grace. I think Srila Prabhupada wants that in this great attempt by my humble- self your valued service may also be dovetailed. Please therefore immediately take steps in this direction and if need be you may personally see Dr. Radha Krishna be- cause he is sympathetic with the Goudiya Math workers as they are sincerely trying to respiritualise the whole world. He is also personally known to me but because I am out of India it is not possible for me to see him. As you will know from the enclosed letter of Sir Padampat Singhania, he is prepared to spend any amount for this purpose, you can get sanction as large an amount as it is possible. Minimum ten lacs of rupees. So far men for working here in the temple, do not worry about it. I have al- ready some American youngmen with me and they strictly vegetarian. Besides that thereare many Indian students here and I shall be able to recruit workers both from Indian and Americans. I am confident of this. I may cite herewith one incidence which happened yester- dya evening. I haveprepared some Tape record of my personal Kirtan. When one of this Tape record was played the audience became practically charmed by that although not a single word of my language was understandable by them. So Iam confident of the statement of Srila Haridas Thakur that the transcen- dental sound of Lord Chaitanya’s Harinam can do good even to the birds and the beasts. Undoubtedly these Americans are habituated to take nonve- getarin food but I am confident that they can be trained up to our line of living be- cause they are sincere to take up the training. This will be all practically pos- sible as soon as we have regular institu- tion here in New York. If it is possible to send some men from India who must be educated it is well and good otherwise I shall manage everything by the Grace of Srila Prabhupada. We cannot do any- thing whatsoever but if our sincere ser- vice is accepted by the Vaishnavas everthing is possble and may not have the audacity to speak all these before your holiness who is expert in this ser- vice. Please therefore make the transac- tion complete immediately and oblige. By the by I beg to enclose herewith one cheque for Rs.10/- as my humble offer- ings to the lotus feet of Srila Prabhupada through your goodself and I wish that you may ask for His blessings for becoming successful in this great attempt for His service. Thanking you once more and I beg to remain, Yours obediently A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosure:2. 66-2-2 New York 16th February, 1966 Messrs. Universal Book House Sita Sadan Top Floor Tulsi Pipe Road, Dadar Bombay -28. Dear Mr. Dharwarkar, Please accept my greetings. Since I came to America I have not heard any- thing from you. Hope everthing is well with you and your business. I shall be glad to hear from you about the progress of the sale of my books Srimad Bhagwatam en- trusted to you. I shall be glad to know if the sales proceeds have been deposited 1966 95 with my bank account as follows: Savings Bank Account: A.C. BHAKTIVEDANTA SWAMI No.4966 with Bank of Baroda Limited Reclamation Branch Sachivalaya, Bombay- | Due to my absence from India the printing works are suspended and now I wish to begin itagain on hearing from you. The thing is that I am trying here to estab- lish one Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna and one big industrialist of India has promised to pay for the cost. But there is difficulty of Indian exchange. So I am try- ing to get the exchange santioned through some friend in India and if I get the sanc- tion then I shall remain here for many more days. So in my absence I wish that you may take charge of selling the books in India. Please let me know if there is any possibility of your taking such charge. So far my experience is concerned this publi- cation can be introduced in all colleges and universities of India. If you have suc- cessfully worked out the business in your own Maharaste province as it is recom- mended by the Director of Education, then it will be possible for you also for other provinces. In Rajasthan and Delhi it is already recommended and similarly it could be recommended in all other prov- inces. If you have not as yet deposited the sales proceeds kindly do it now immedi- ately on receipt of this letter because I have to pay to the Press wala before begin- ning the 4th, Sth and the 6th parts at once. Also please let me know if you can take charge of the sale for whole of India. If you take up then I shall not negotiate with others because in my absence some body must take charge of the sale otherwise what shall I do simply by printing. Kindly therefore treat this letter as ur- gent and reply it per return of post so that I can do the needful. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours truly, A.C.Bhaktivedanta swami. 66-2-3 New York 16th February, 1966 His Holiness Sripad B. V. Teertha Maharaj Sri Chaitanya Research Institute 70 B, Rash Behari Avenue Calcutta 26, India. My dear Sripad Teertha Maharaj, Kindly accept my humble dandabats at your lotus feet. I hope you have duly re- ceived my letter of the 4th instant with en- closure of Sir Padampat Singhania the expected donnar of the Temple. Since then I have changed my room (Room No 307) as abovementioned in the same building for better air and light and on the road side of junction of two roads the Co- lumbus Avenue and 72nd St. So please note down my change of room only the building being the same. Now I am anxiously awaiting your fa- vourable reply because on your reply only I will have to take action in so many other things. My Visa period will be finished by the end of March 1966 and for increasing the period I will have to submit applica- tion at least a fortnight before. You know it that America is very much expensive. I am paying rent for my room $70.00 and for my other expenses I spend about 4 dol- lars a day. In other words I have to spend about Rs.1000/- per month and as such I am counting every day to receive your fa- vourable reply. Kindly therefore reply this letter per return of post what actions you have taken by this time so that I may also arrange my things here accordingly. It is my very good experience that your Holiness is very prompt in replying letters and I am very much anxious because I 96 Letters from Srila Prabhupada have not received your letter till now. I hope you also received and cashed my cheque for the Vyasa Puja offerings. Hope you are all well and thanking you in anticipation for your reply per return of post. Yours obediently, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-3-1 New York Sth March, 1966 Secretary National Head Quarter of The Salvation Army 120-130 West 14th Street New York, N.Y. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I am a Vaishnava Sannyasi and I have come from India (Vrindaban U.P.) for establishing a preaching centre in America for the first time in the study of Srimad Bhagwatam. A small literature in this connection is sent herewith for your kind perusal. This Srimad Bhagwatam is the post graduate study of the Bhagwavat Gita and both of- them are sciences of Theism. I am seeking your good cooperation in this attempt for developing higher sense of Godcons- ciousness. I have got money in India and I wanted to get it from India for starting the above centre but the Government of India has no dollar exchange to pay in America and therefore I have been handicapped in this attempt. My correspondence with the Prime Minister as well as my devotee Sir Padampat Singhania is complete. The lat- est replies and their copies are aslo sent herewith for your perusal. I know that you have a great number of centres in India for your missionary work and you spend many thousands of American money in India for your noble activities. If you therefore accept my money in India for spending there and pay me in dollars here in America for my spending here, it will be a great coopera- tion. I think we should cooperate in every respects in the matter of raising peoples sense of Godconsciousness in these days of forgetfulness. Iam in need of $200,000.00 two hun- dred thousands of dollars immediately for starting my centre here in New York. If you help me by this amount in exchange of my money in India, it will be considered a Grace of the Lord. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply, Yours sincerely in the service of the Lord, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosure: 1 66-3-2 17th March, 1966 Mr. Martin the Finance Secretary seen to-day personally. Requested him to 4:80 per dollar in exchange. He formally agreed and will get it confirmed from sender and let me know finally. It is good news. ACB 66-3-3 New York 18th March, 1966 My dear Sir Padampat, Please accept my greetings and bless- ings of Sri Sri Dwarkadhish Maharaj. I hope by Lord’s Grace everything is all right with you. Now as referred to my last letter of Jan- uary 20 1966, I am very glad to inform you that by the Grace of Lord Dwarkadh- ish there is now some definite arrange- ment for dollar exchange in India. 1966 97 As I told you before the matter was en- trusted to two responsible gentlemen in India. One is my godbrother Sripad B.V. Teertha Maharaj the President of Chaita- nya Research Institute Calcutta and the other is one inflential officer in the All In- dia Congress Committee in New Delhi. Both of them are very responsible men and they are trying very sincerely to their best capacity to get the exchange sanc- tioned. But till now there is no hopeful signal from both of them. So In the meantime I negotiated with the authorities of the great Missionary or- ganisation namely The Salvation Army Inc. The Finance Secretary of the great organisation writes as follows in his letter D/14/3/66 “This will acknowledge your letter of March 5,1966, in connection with the possibility of The Salvation Army paying you American dollars and having you release an equivalent amount of Indian currency for The Salvation Army work in India. It is noted that you will need $200,000/- (two hundred thou- sands dollars) immediately for starting your work in New York.” “The Salvation Armay in America rarely sends money di- rectly to India. . ”” “In the event, how- ever, that an occasion might arise, what would be the basis of the rate of exchange? We understand that there is the official bank rate and there are other rates avail- abletous, which are legal, but which pro- vide more funds in Indian currency than would be provided by the official bank rate.” On receipt of the letter from The Sal- vation Army as quoted above, I saw the Finance Secretary of the very great or- ganisation and I talked with him very freely and frankly. I convinced him that our Radhakrishna Temple will be similar missionary preaching centre for God- consciousnes and there is no question of business profit. We want to spend here for the benefit of the American people as you are spending in India. It is mutual co- operation for spreading the idea of God- consciousness in the world when there is very great necessity for it. The usual black market exchange is Rs7/- per $. But I have convinced him to accept Rs 4.80/per $ and by the Grace of Lord Dwarkadhish he has agreed. So the diffi- culty of exchange as referred to in your let- ter of 14th January 1966 is now solved. Now you can send your man immediately for beginning the work as suggested in my last letter. I asked you to send me the name of the man whom you want to send for this purpose so that I could arrange for the “No objection Certificate” from the local Indian Consulate Gnl. But now you have to send the name immediately for spon- soring him. Please therefore immediately take steps in the matter and let me know the result per return of post. I am counting every moment for starting the Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna and here is the op- portunity now which we must utilise with- out delay. Please therefore reply this letter immediately per return of post and oblige. By the by kindly let me know if you have received my books Srimad Bhagwa- tam from my Delhi office? I have informa- tion from Delhi that they have already sent you the books as I have already informed you in my last letter (Page 3 para 5) Hope you are well and awaiting your reply. Thanking you once more. Yours Sincerely, 66-3-4 New York 18th March, 1966 Madam Sumati Morarjee Baisaheba, Please accept my greeting and blessing of Lord Bala Krishna. I hope by the Grace of Lord Sri Krishna everything well with you. Since I received your last letter of Octo- ber 9, 1965, I was very much encouraged 98 Letters from Srila Prabhupada when you wrote to say “I feel that you should stay there till you fully recover from your illness and return only after you have completed your mission”. I think these lines dictated by you are the words of Lord Bala Krishna expressed through your goodness. You will be pleased to know that I have improved my health to the normal and my missionary work is nicely progressing. I hope my project to start a Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna in New York will also be realised by the Grace of the Lord. Sir Padampat Singhania of Kanpur J.K. Or- ganisation, has kindly agreed to construct a nice Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna in New York. I am trying to solve the ex- change problem by all means and I am seeing some light for this purpose also. Since I came down to New York from Butler Pennsylvania, I have rented the above room at $70.00 per month and I am delivering lectures on the Bhagwat Geeta and Srimad Bhagwatam accompanied by Samkirtan and the American ladies and gentlemen come to hear me. You will be surprised to know that they do not under- stand the language of the Samkirtanand yet they hear with attention. The move- ment which I have started here is com- pletely new to them because the Americans are generally acquainted with the Indian Yoga gymnastics as it is per- formed by some Indian yogis here. They never heard of Bhakti cult or the Science of Krishna before and still they are hear- ing me,—this very idea is a great success for me. Now I shall require some Samkirtan instruments from India and three men to assist me in my missionary activities. And if the Temple is started I have to bring many things from India and I wish that you may kindly arrange for free convey- ance of my men and goods in this connec- tion. I have already asked one of my devo- tees in Calcutta to send two Mridangas for Sankirtan and I have advised him to de- posit the same with your manager in Cal- cutta for carriage to New York by any one of your ships. Kindly issue instructions to your Managers in Calcutta and Cochin to carry my things as abovementioned free and oblige. In India when I started for America, your goodness promised to reply my letter regularly but I have not received replies for my two letters. Please therefore see that my letters addressed to you may be duly replied. I have come here in this oldage neither for sightseeing nor for any personal interest. It is for the interest of the entire humanity that I am trying to im- plement the science of Krishna which will actually make them happy. So it is the duty of every devotees of Lord Krishna to help me by all means. Kindly reply this letter and oblige. Hope you are well. Kindly convy my good wishes to all your staff especially to Sarva Sriman Choksi, Nagarajam and Acharya. Thanking you once more, Yours sincerely in the Service of the Lord. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-4-1 New York 27th April, 1966 Madam Sumati Morarji Baisaheba, Kindly accept my greetings and bless- ing of Lord Balakrishna. I am in due re- ceipt of your letter of the 11th instant and hve noted the contents with thanks. The Project for constructing a temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna is complete be- cause Sir Padampat Singhania is ready to spend any amount of money for a nicear- chitectural workmanship of Indian origin but our secular Government has officially denied the exchange. So Ima trying to get the Exchange otherwise namely through 1966 99 the Salvation Army as also through the in- fluence of a friend in India who can con- vince the Finance Minister or the President in this important task. As such my Godbrother who is entrusted with this work has asked me to return to India for some days to expedite the work. I am try- ing to avoid the journey to India and again to come back specially for the reason that I am holding at the above address classes thrice in a week and training some American Yoth in the matter of Samkritan and devotional service of the Lord (Bhakti) some of them are taking the tes- sons very sincerely and in future they may be very good Vaisnavas according to rigid rituals. One of the youths Mr. Paul Mur- ray is even ready to go with me to India to learn the cult more specifically and I wish to take him with me when I go to India. Please therefore write to your Agent here to allowthis more serious boy to come with me in India and see things directly how temple worship is done in the Vishnu Temples. I shall keep him for some days in Vrindaban and he may be given lessons for future preaching in the western coun- tries. I shall try my best to get the sanction for the temple Exchange and if I am un- able then I shall open the Radha Krishna worship and Samkirtan in the rented house as I am now doing. The present flat is about 100’ X 25’ and there is ample place even to have a room for the deities of Radha and Krishna. When returning from India I shall bring with me the deities ei- ther from Jaipur or from Vrindaban along with other things required and I shall start the temple in rented building Kindly therefore send your permission for taking this boy with me as abovemen- tioned. He has his passport and some cou- ple of hundreds to spend in India. When we come to India you will be pleased to see the boy (American). He is coming of a good family and a sincere soul to this line of culture. There are others also in the class I am holding here but I wish to take with me only one of them. I am very sorry to inform you that in the last month there was a theft case in my room. My typewriter and tape recorder and some book have been stolen woth more than Rs1000/- goods and therefore I am changin the place to the above ad- dress. This present typewriter has been given by a devotee and thus there is no dif- ficulty and another friend has also sup- plied a tape recorder. It is understood that such crime as it has been committed in my room is very common in New York. That is the way of material nature. The American people have every thing in am- ple and the worker gets about Rs 100/- as daily wages and still there are thieves for want of character. The lower class men daily workers are cent percent drunkards. Their social condition is not very Hope everything is well with you by the Grace of the Lord and awaiting your early reply with thanks. Yours in the service of the Lord, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-4-2 New York 30th April, 1966 Chief Contoller of Exchange Control Department Reserve Bank of India New Delhi, INDIA. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I am a Vaisnava Sannyasi in the line of Lord Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. In pursuance of the cult of Love of Godhead as propounded by Lord Chaitanya 500 years before, I have come to America to preach the same cultural mission on the principles of the Bhagwat Geeta and the Srimad Bhagwatam. My translation of the Srimad Bhagwatam (published in three volume first canto) is 100 Letters from Srila Prabhupada recognised by the Government of India both central and the states. Here in America also the same publication is ap- proved by the State Library of Congress in Wshaington, New York Public Library, the Philadelphia University and many other institutions. Arrangement is also being attempted to get an American Edi- tion of this publication as well as editing my paper “‘Back to Godhead”. Since I have come to America in the last year (September 1965) I have travelled many parts of the country. Some of the lo- cal papers has published articles about me and they have designated me as the “AM- BASSADOR OF BHAKTIYOGA’”’. At present I am staying in New York city at the above address and holding my classes on the culture of Musical Keertan as well as discourses on the cult of devo- tion (Bhakti) on every Mondays, Wed- nessdays and Fridays which are participated by the American Youths, Ladies and Gentlemen. The appreciate the musical mellow very much although they are no conversant with the language. And without understanding the language they give a aural reception to the Keertan in a devout manner. So there is ample prospect for propagating this Indian culture in this country. I want therefore to establish this cul- tural centre and for this I wish to get some exchange from India. The Government has also its cultural department and as such the Government of India spend a substantial ammount in the foreign cou- tries. Similarly I wish to preach this Bhagwati approve culture not only in America but also in other countries out- side India. I have already made experi- ment in thismatter and I think there is good prospect for propagating the par- ticular culture of how to love God, all over the world specially in these days of forget- fulness. As I want to open this cultural centre first in New York, I shall be very much obliged if you will kindly me know the procedure in this matter. Thanking you in anticipation for an early repluy Yours faithfully, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-5-1 New York 16th May, 1966 My dear Brahmachary Mangalniloy, Please accept my hearty greetings for your letter of the 11th instant and I have noted the contents very carefully. Your strong desire to come to western countries is very laudable because Srila Prabhupada had a great hope to preach the gospel of sri Rupa and Raghunath in these parts of the world. At the same time there is a great prospect for preaching the cult of Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in this part of the world. The Americans have very great re- gard for Oriental culture and philosophy and taking advantage of this opportunity many socalled oriental men of wisdom have exploited their sentiments simply for the matter of livelihood. Since I have come to this country I have travelled many parts of the country specially in Butler, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Boston, Monroe etc and everywhere I have seen that the people in general have great respect for oriental culture and mostly they are at- tached to the gymnastic process of the Ha- tha Yoga system. But the system of Bhaktiyoga will be very much appreciable to them if we could open a centre here in New York. With this aim in view I tried my godbrother to jointogether for this preaching work in the foreign countries by combined force. I tried first Kesava Ma- haraj, then Bon Maharaj and then Teertha Maharaj but I have failed to get any coop- eration from either of them till now and therefore when I was just arranging to go 1966 101 back to India to try for myself it is a great omen to receive your encouraging letter under reply. I know you well and I think once we met at Vrindaban some 8 to 9 years before and I took Prasadam in your the then Matha behind the Ranganath Temple. Perhaps you saw my paper also Back to Godhead. I think if you come at all you should come here with a tangible programme and it is encouraging to note that you wish to work under me by full co- operation. You will be glad to learn that Sir Padampat Singhania of Kanpur was approached by me in correspondence, as he was known to me before, to erect a Radhakrishna Temple in New York and he has agreed to take up the work very nicely provided there is sanction of Indian exchange. Srila Teertha Maharaj prom- ised me all help to get this exchange sanc- tioned by seeing the President and the Finance Minister as he is supposed to have some influence over them. This corre- spondence is going on since January 1966 with Sripad Teertha Maharaj but his last letter appears to me very disappointing. Now He asks me to go back to India and try for the sanction with his joint effort from the Deputy Controller of Exchange in Calcutta. Srila Teertha Maharaj has definitely assured me that the exchange will be sanctioned on submission of plans and expenditure of the proposed temple. But I am not very much encouraged to have this information. I therefore beg to request you to enquire immediately from the Deputy Controller of Exchange, Con- trol Depart. Reserve Bank of India Cal- cutta. Please take definite information about this and if the information is correct as per statement of Srila Teertha Maharaj then let me know the procedure to be fol- lowed in this connection. This very im- portant item of my foreign travel. If we can open one centre in New York there is great potency for opening other centres also not only in America but also in Eu- rope, Japan, China and many other places just to fulfill the desire of Srila Prabhu- pada and Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. This is purely cultural programme for spreading the Hindu culture and if the Hindus have no such scope for spreading their culture then what is the meaning of independence? These points are to be raised and I think there must be some pro- vision for such cultural propaganda be- cause the Government has its own cultural ministry and they are spending millions and billions for this purpose. Please try for this first and foremost and if we are successful in getting the sanction then other things will follow automatically on this cultural programme. I hope you will follow the idea because you have done so many practical work in the mission. I want to know simply whether the Deputy Controller of Exchange is actually in power to saction such exchange as to open Hindu temples etc in the foreign coun- tries. I understand that Sripad Madhav Maharaj also sometimes goes to see the President and therefore he must be very well acquainted by such occasional visits. I think he can also help me in this connec- tion. Anyway let us co-operate in this con- nection for some tangible work. Not only your goodself but also many others from India are prepared to come here to assist me but I think casual visit to this country will not do. We must have some centre of activity either by establishing a temple of our line of action or by establishing an or- ganisation like Ramakrishna Mission for this cultural work. Anyway your volun- tary offer for co-operation is very wel- come and I take it for Srila Prabhupada’s help in this great adventure. If I shall re- main here for some time more, surely I shall call you as desired by you provided you work in cooperation with me fully. Personally I can take the sponsoring for you in the month of September 1966 but my Visa period will end on the 30th 102 Letters from Srila Prabhupada June1966. So if I see circumstances fa- vourable I shall try to extend my Visa for the required period otherwise I shall re- turn to India after the above date. My stay- ing will now depend on your good cooperation in India for the present. In the meantime I am trying also here what can be done. The idea of preaching here and in India is completely different. Here you cannot make any collection whatsoever. At the same time the expenditure too heavy. I am paying here rent 100 dollars per month which means 500 rupees in our Indian exchange. Besides that my expen- diture is daily four dollars two persons. Mr. Paul is whole devoted to my work. But we are getting some contribution by our meetings on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays when we perform Samkirtan discourses on Bhagwat Geeta or Srimad Bhagwatam as is our usual programme. If youcome it will be great help for me pro- vided you agree to work under me. More in my next. Hope you are well and await- ing your early reply. Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-5-2 New York 28th May, 1966 Ministry of Finance Department of Economic Affairs Government Of India New Delhi THROUGH : THE INDIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON D.C. Dear Sirs, Re: Release of Exchange for erecting a cultural Institution of Radha Krishna Temple in New York for preaching the cult of Krishna philosophy as revealed in the Srimad Bhagavatam and Srimad Bha- gavat Geeta. With reference to the above I beg to in- form you that I am a Vaisnava Sannyasi in the line of Lord Sri Chaitanya Maha- prabhu. In pursuance of the cult of Love of Krishna philosophy as propounded in the Srimad Bhagavat Geeta, I have come to America to preach the cultural mission. My translation of the Srimad Bhagwatam (published in three volumes first canto) is recognised by the Government of India both central and states education depart- ment. Here in America also my book is approved by the State Library of Congress Washington, the Public Library and many universities. Since I have come to America in the last year (September 1965) I have trav- elled many parts of the country and some of the local papers have published articles on me and they have designated me as the Ambassador of Bhaktiyoga. At present I am staying in New York at the above address and my American friends and admirers are hearing from me about my cultural mission and attending my Keertan class as wellas discourses on the Bhagwat Geeta and the Srimad Bhagwatam. I therefore want to establish a perma- nent establishment of Radha Krishna Temple and I am very glad to inform you that Sir Padampat Sighania of Kanpur has agreed to spend any amount for erecting an Indian architectural Temple in New York for this great cultural mission of In- dia. I am enclosing herewith the copies of the letters received from Sri Padampat Sighania. I had to approach the Exchange Con- trol Department of Reserve Bank of India and the reply which I have received from the Controller is also enclosed herewith please find. My cultural mission as I have tried to explain in my books Srimad Bhagwatam has been highly appreciated by all respon- sible quarters in India including the Late Prime Minister Lal Bhadur Shastri. The 1966 103 All India Congress Committee has re- viewed my books in the following words: “Ata time when not only the people of In- dia but those of the West need the chasten- ing quality of Love and Truth in the corrupting atmosphere of hate and hypoc- risy, a work like this will have corrective influence. What is God? He is truth, He is love. Even an atheist must accept the su- premacy of those qualities and how much they are needed by the people of the world who have been tought to deny God and these qualities do not require much em- phasis.” “The author has attempted a tremen- dous task . . . A perusal will give us in sample measure a knowledge of the origi- nal. The essence of Srimad Bhagawatam is the exposition of the Absolute Truth, for an understanding of Absolute Truth we would recommend this book.” Mr. N.C. Chatterji M.P. and the late President of the Hindu Mahasabha writes ‘You have done a first class work and you deserve the hearty commendationof every Indian and every Hindu. Your deep and penetrating study of the subject and your philosophic insight are reflected in this work. . . . You aare doing a great service to the cause of humanity.” So this is a cultural mission for enlight- enment of the entire human society and New York is the best centre for distribut- ing such cultural knowledge because it is the Head Quarter of the United Nations. We shall erect such a nice cultural Hall and Temple and everything is ready at this opportune moment. Kindly therefore give your sanction for this noble and sublime activities of Indian original culture still going strong. His Excellency Dr. Radhakrishnan the President of India knows me personal- lyand if need be you can take reference from him about me. Kindly help me by your early sanction of release of Exchange and I shall await your favourable reply per return of post with interest. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. New York 28th May, 1966 66-5-3 Secretary Indian Embassy in America Washington D.C. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I have been in- structed by the Controller of Exchange Reserve Bank of India Delhi to forward my letter to the Ministry of Finance, De- partment of Economic Affairs Govern- ment of India New Delhi for release of Indian Exchange. As advised by him I beg to hand you herewith the above mentioned letter to Ministry of Finance Government of India which please forward to India and oblige. Please acknowledge receipt hereof and thanking you in anticipation, Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-6-1 New York 11th June, 1966 Sriman Brahmachary Mangalniloy c/o messrs. Bhajanlal Srinivas P.O. Shillong, Assam INDIA My dear Brahmachary Mangalniloy, I thank you very much for your kind letter of the3rd inst and I am glad to un- derstand that you are serious for joining me in my great adventure for preaching the message of Rupa Raghunath in these parts of the world. I am confident to see fulfilment of Lord Chaitanya’s mission in every corner of the world. His Divine 104 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Grace wanted this mission to be fructified during His presence but He was so much disappointed in the last days of His life for many of His follower’s indisciplinary ac- tivities. I do not know how far I shall be successful in this attempt but I am trying my best to do this job as He wanted me to do. If your Guru Maharaj Sripad Madhav Maharaj fully co-operate with me in this adventure I am confident to come out suc- cessful in my attempt. You have asked me to correspond with him but as he is always in preaching activities it is better you open the negotiation first with him and if he agrees to help me and co-operate with me in the matter of preaching work in the for- eign countries, it will be great encourage- ment for me. Up till now I am working alone without any co-operation of any one of my Godbrothers and it is the first time that you have voluntarily extended your hand to co-operate with me in full spirit. May Srila Prabhupada bestow His Divine Grace upon you. I have already decided to get you here to help me and I am trying my best for your “No objection Certificate” as well as free passage to this country. Most probably you shall be requisitioned by the end of July next and be prepared for this. I want also another assistant who can play Khola very nicely. If you have got any body in view you may also arrange for his coming here and I shall arrange for him also. If so please immediately send his name and address so that I shall try for his No objection certificate also. While com- ing here I shall require you to bring with you the following articles namely: (1) Two first class Mridngas (2) Ten pairs of first class Kartals (3) One first class Har- monium (4) one first class Tanpura (5) Four pairs of Ghungar for dancing. Regarding the construction of the Temple here in New York and in other places, I have now decided to struggle for it to the end of my life and I am glad that you have decided to follow my instruction in this connection. I think I shall be able to finish this Job even if the Government of India does not allow me any exchange. I am now trying to incorporate one corpo- ration of the local friends and admirers under the name INTERNATIONAL SOCI- ETY FOR KRISHNA CONSCIOUSNESS INC Negotiation is going on with the Law- yer to formulate the scheme and as soon as this is incorporated I shall submit applica- tion for sponsoring you in this country. There is enough money in this country and for temple we may not require to get exchange from India. The only thing is the people of this country must know that this is very important work and by such con- viction enough money could be raised from the local people. I hope when you will come I shall get your full cooperation in this connection. Henceforward write in English language. Here English language is very much essential so try to have it practised fluently. You are educated and it will not be difficult for you. There is another impediment for my staying here. My publication work is sus- pended. You know I have already pub- lished three volumes of my Srimad Bhagwatam and further copies are ready for printing. Please let me know if your establishment can take charge of publish- ing these books or can manage the publi- cation in my absence. Due to my absence from India the publication is stopped and therefore it disturbs my mind. This publi- cation work is my main function. So at any rate I cannot stop it. I can stop my for- eign activities but I cannot stop my publi- cation work. Please let me know if there is any possibility of your institution to look after these affairs during my absence. You have asked me to write something about Mr Paul. He is a youngman of twenty three years old. He was attending my class at 72nd St. along with others and when there was theft case in my room he invited me to his residence. So I am with 1966 105 him and training him. He has good pros- pect because he has already given up all so called bad habits. In these country illicit connection with women, smoking, drink- ing and eating of meats are common af- fairs besides that other habits like using toilet papers after evacuating etc. But by my request he has given up 90% of his old habits and he is chanting Mahamantra regularly. So I am giving him the chance and I think he is improving. To-morrow I have arranged for some Prasad distribu- tion and he has gone to puchase some things from the market in the car of a friend. I shall inform him about you when he comes back. Here we have got a big hall and my classes are going on thrice ina week. The rent is $100.00 permonth. I think when you come here we shall be able to organise the things more nicely. Please be in regular correspondence with me and offer my respects to Sripad Madhav Maharaj and if possible let me know if there is any possibility of our co- operation in this attempt of foreign propa- ganda. If so kindly let me know your opinion in this connection. Hope you are all doing well and with my good wishes I am Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. Please let me know the price of two [TEXT MISSING] and shall send you cheque on Calcutta bank. ACB 66-6-2 New York 11th June, 1966 Sri I. N. Wankawala Scindia Steam Navigation Co Ltd Central Bank Buildings, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1 Dear Mr. Wankawala, Please accept my greetings. Since I have left India I did not hear from you and I hope everything is well with you. My preaching work is going on nicely. The Americans are taking interest in the mat- ter of Bhakticult of Samkirtan movement. Iam holding classes of Samkirtan and dis- courses on the Bhagwat Geeta and Srimad Bhagwatam and I very glad to inform you that they are chanting the holy name of God “Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare” with great devotion. There is some attempt for opening one RadhaKrishna Temple in New York and Sir Padampat Sighania of Kanpur has promised to build up the temple. I am try- ing for the Indian Exchange sanction and if it is sanctioned, I hope one temple of Sri Sri Radhakrishna will be first built in New York. I am also trying for the temple oth- erwise if the Exchange is not sanctioned. Ihave received one letter from Srimati Sumatiji Baisaheba dated the 11th April 1966 in which she writes amongst other things as follows: “..... Regarding free passage to be provided to your men from India to New York on our ships, kindly note that these gentlemen will have to ob- tain permission from the Reserve Bank of India and therefore I suggest that you please request them to complete the P form formalities and thereafter please ask them to contact Shri I.N. Wankawala of our Calcutta Office whom I am advising suitably.” “As regards equipment for the temple such as Mridanga for Samkirtan, also I am advising Shri Wankawala to allow freight free shipment on our vessels. You may therefore advise those concerned to contact him for this purpose. I may add that for shipment from Cochin also Shri Wankawala of our Calcutta office should be contacted and he will do the needful.” I hope you have duly received instruc- tion from your Bombay office regarding the instructions of Baisaheba and I am ar- ranging my men (Samkirtan Party) to 106 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda come here by the end of July with Mri- danga etc for advancing the missionary work here. Some of my goods are lying in Delhi and [ wish to get them here. Please let me know where the goods should be sent either to Cochin or to Calcutta. Of course from Delhi Calcutta is nearer than Cochin. Kindly therefore reply this letter per return of post and I will do the needful regarding the above. By the by I may enquire if you are read- ing my Book Srimad Bhagwatam and shall be glad to hear from you about your reaction. Hope you are well and awaiting your early reply. Yours sincerely A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-6-3 New York 23rd June, 1966 My dear Brahmachary Mangakniloy, Please accept my dandabats. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 16th in- stant and have noted the contents care- fully. Please let me know if I will have to send you money for the articles like Mri- danga etc. If so kindly let me know the re- spective price. In your first letter dated June 3, 1966 you had to inform me that you had already advised Sri Jagamohon Prabhu to see the Deputy Controller of Exchange Calcutta but I have not heard anything about it. Please note that this work is very impor- tant and I have already submitted my ap- plication to the Finance Ministry of the Government of India through the Indian Embassy here in America. The Indian Embassy at Washington has acknowl- edged receipt of my application as fol- lows: “Prakash Shah Second Secretary Em- bassy of India Washington D.C. dated June 9, 1966. Letter No. Con.63(1)/66. Dear Mr. Swami, This is to acknowledge your letter dated May 28, 1966. Your ap- plication for release of Foreign Exchange has been forwarded to the Ministry of Fi- nance, Government of India. Yours sin- cerely Sd/Prakash Shah”’ Now I would request you to see the Fi- nance Minister or the President immedi- ately and get the Exchange sanctioned. There is provision for such exchange sanction but it requires special sanction from the Finance Ministry. So we have to convince only the Finance Minister that for spreading the culture of Bhagwat Geeta or the science of Krishna Con- sciousness this cultural propaganda from India’s side has to be done. I have already explained the matter in my application but if yourself or Sripad Madhav Moharaj sees the Finance Minister immediately, I am sure the Exchange will be released. I have already informed you that the donor Sir Padampat Singhania is ready to spend any amount for constructing a nice Indian architectural temple in New York and why not take this opportunity for spreading the mission of Srila Prabhupada. Sripada Madhava Maharaj is known to the Presi- dent because sometimes before His Holi- ness saw the President in New Delhi. I requested for this to Sripad Bon Moharaj but he has declined, I requested Sripad Teertha Moharaj and at first he promised see the President and the Finance Minis- ter but later on he is trying to avoid it. So I have to request Sripad Madhav Maharaj through you for this most important work to see the President and the Finance Min- ister immediately with reference to my ap- plication as it is acknowledged by the Embassy of India in Washington. You have written to say in your letter under reply that you want to join first with 1966 107 me then talk with Sripada Maharaj about co-operation otherwise your journey to this country may be cancelled by him. I could not follow the import of this pro- posal. Do you think that cooperaton with me prior to your joining me here is not possible? Why this mentality. Is it my pri- vate business? Srila Prabhupada wanted to construct some temples in the Foreign countries as preaching centres of the mes- sage of Srila Rupa Raghunatha and I am trying to do this in this part of the world. The money is ready and the opportunity is open. If by seeing the Finance Minister this work can be facilitated why should we wait for time so that you cannot talk with your Gurumaharaj about any co-opera- tion because you afraid of your journey here may be cancelled. Please do not think in that way. Take everything as Srila Prabhupada’s work and try to co-operate in that spirit. The Goudiya Math institu- tion has failed. .... So far your dress is concerned, I think you will require several suits for visiting gentlemen here. As a Sanyasi I cannot take suits and boots but you are Brahma- chary so you can accept such gentlemanly dress. Regarding the Mridanga player, if you think that he is REALLY expert as it should be, then he may come even though he does not know English. We may engage him so many other things. Please send me immeditely one copy of Panjika and a copy of Satkriya Sarartha Dipika of Go- pal Bhtta Goswami. Hope you are all well and awaiting your early reply. Once more I may request you to cooperate with me in full spirit. Do not think for a moment that my interest is different from that of your Guru Maharaj. We are executing the will of Srila Prabhupada according to our own capacity. But combined effort would have been by far more better. Yours affly., A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-7-1 New York 16th July, 1966 My dear Brahmachary Mangalniloy, I thank you for your letter of the 8th in- stant and have noted the contents. Please note my change of address as above men- tioned. I have further risked in the matter of rent of the house. I was paying Mr. Murray $100.00 but I was not indepen- dent there. Here the rent is $200.00 per month but I am completely independent and that I have taken atelephonic connec- tion. My lecture hall is on the ground floor and my apartment is on the first floor. This Second Avenue is one of the ten longest roads of the New York city Regarding the temple project I have just received the reply from the Embassy of India in America as follows: (D/July 11, 1966) “Please refer to your applica- tion regarding release of foreign Ex- change from the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. Due to existing con- ditions of foreign exchange stringency, it is not possible for the Government of In- dia to accede to your request for release of foreign exchange. You may perhaps you like to raise necessary funds from resi- dents in America” So the controvery is now closed and there is no need of help from any one else. We are not always successful in our at- tempts in preaching work but such failures are not certainly ludicrous. In the Abso- lute field both success and failures are glorious. Even Lord Nityananda pre- tended to be a failure to convert Jagai and Madhai in the first attempt, rather he was personally injured in such attempt but that was certainly not ludicrous. The whole thing was transcendental and it was glori- ous for allthe parties concerned. It is however very difficult to raise funds from the Indian residents in America. My followers here are 99% Americans. But Indian Government has 108 Letters from Srila Prabhupada taken wrtten declaration from me that I shall not collect any fund from the Americans. So unless I do get such per- mission I think I will have to return to In- dia disappointed to live at Vrindaban peacefully for the remaining days of my life. Regarding the Jhansi incidence re- ferred to by your Gurumaharaj I may in- form you that the donor of the house did not like to hand over the estate to any indi- vidual person. I therefore registered a so- ciety (The League of Devotees) and I invited your Gurumaharaj to join it as the head man. But he, as he was with the then Kunjada desired to have the property in the joint name of him and Kunjada. So I became silent and I left the whole scheme. Let us now forget all these past incidences and go forward with present responsi- bility. My future activities will now depend on the reply of the Indian Embassy whom I have asked for permission to raise funds from the American people. On hearing from them I shall let you know the result. Hope youare well. When youarecom- ing back to Calcutta? Yours affectionately, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. 66-7-2 New York 16th July, 1966 Mr. Prakash Shah Second Secretary Embassy of India Washington D.C. Dear Mr. Shah, I thank you for your letter No.Con63 (1)66 of the 11th instant and it is under- stood that I may raise the necessary funds from the residents of America. Would you please send me a list of the Indian residents in America and oblige. I may also inform you that my fol- lowers here, who come regularly and en- joy my Keertan and discourses on the Bhagwat Geeta,—are all citizens of America. Whether I may also raise funds from them. Kindly reply this letter per return of post so that I may do the needful. Also note my change of address as above men- tioned. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-8-1 New York Ist August, 1966 My dear Sripad Madhav Maharaj, Please accept my humble dandabats and I hope everything is going well in re- spect of your holiness health and preach- ing work. I hope that you are aware of the corre- spondence which I had been exchanging with Sriman Brahmachary Mangalniloy and you also know it that I am desiring to get him here in United States of America for my assistance. You may also know that I am trying to construct a Temple of Sri Sri Radha Krishna in New York specially and I was trying to get exchange from the Government of India. I am very sorry to inform you that the Government of India Finance Ministry has expressed it inabil- ity to sanction Exchange Release from In- dia but the Indian Embassy in America at Washington W.C. has directly sanctioned to raise funds from the Indian residents in America and directly from the American citizens. The American Foundations do not contribute anything to any institution or organisation if it is not properly incorpo- rated by law of the land. So far I have knowledge of the Indian residents in America they are mostly engaged in local 1966 109 educational or Indian Government ser- vice in the Embassy. Therefore there is very little hope to get from them any sub- stantial help for the proposed temple con- struction which will require some millions of dollars. But if the Americans take the matter very seriously there are many Foudations one of them alone can contribute such amount. I have therefore very recently incorpo- rated one organisation very recently (within a fortnight past) under the name of INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR KRISHNA CONSCIOUSNESS (Incor- porated in U.S.A.) The Trustees of this organisation are all American gentlemen headed by one of the leading lawyers of New York Mr. Steven J. Goldsmith B.Sc. M.A.B.L. who comes regularly in my weekly classes and chants the Mahaman- tra very devoutly. Now the chance for preaching the cult of Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in the west- ern countries like America and Europe is practically established and if the organi- sation is properly managed I am sure there will be no dearth of financial facilities from the American citizens. But still I think this organisation should have co- operation from all countries of the world specially of India and more specially from the Goudiya Vaisnavas who are pledged to take the responsibility of preaching Chaitanya cult in every village and townof the world. I am therefore inviting the first cooperation from my Godbrothers in this great adventure. I am very much hopeful of success of the attempt and I am seeking your good consultation if it is possible to have full sympathetic cooperation of my Godbrothers in India in this adventure. Sriman Brahmachary Mangalniloy has al- ready agreed to come here to assist me fully but I wish that each and every one of the different Goudiya Math organisations may kindly send one person respectively to work under my direction in these for- eign countries and thus become individu- ally a member of the international organisation abovementioned. The quali- fication of such intending candidates must be that he must be able to speak in English or be well versed in playing Khola or sing- ing. If one is qualified with all the above qualifications it is very good otherwise he must be qualified at least one of them. So far their coming here I shall take all the re- sponsibility for passage and maintenance. Would kindly consider this proposal im- mediately and let me know your decision perreturn of post? [TEXT MISSING] for this cooperation programme. Srila Prabhupada wanted us to do everything in complete cooperation and thus I am in- clined to have full cooperation in this great attempt of preaching in the foreign coutries. All the camps of our various camps may at least cooperate in the matter of special activities and I may be able to provide any number of men who may be now inclined to come here and work un- der my direction. There is great possi- bility of Lord Chaitanya’s cult being preached amongst the younger section of the Americans and some of them are hear- ing me very seriously to accept the phi- losophy. Our men in the ideal line of activities chalked out by Srila Prabhupada will be great help to me and the persons who are now seriously attending my classes. Awaiting to hear from you as early as possible with the list names of the per- sons who will come here from different camps. I am asking people here to practice Krishna consciousness through music dance philosophy science religion and distribution of Prasadam. I am asking them to become freed from all sorts of anxieties by practicing the transcendental sound vibration of Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare etc 110 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and I am asking them to join the Interna- tional Society for Krishna Consciousness Inc. My classes are being held thrice a week in the evening between 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. Hope you are well Yours affectionately, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-8-2 New York 3rd August, 1966 Agent The Bank of Baroda, Limited Branch Chandni Chawk ` Delhi 6, India Dear Sir, Re My savings Bnak account 1452 With reference tothe above I beg to in- form you that since a year I am out of In- dia, and I may be required to live here a few days more. I am therefore anxious to know my above account position and shall be glad to have a statement of account since June 1st 1965 on which date I see my credit balance Rs. 2206.05. I may further inform you that my American friends will purchase some books of mine from India and I wish to send the inoney for deposit in a separate account namely A.C. BAHKTIVEDANTA BOOK A/C. I therefore request you to open the above account immediately and transfer Rs.100/- from my present ac- count to this new account. And on hearing from you I shall send all the deposits money to this account. Please let me know the number of this new account A.C.BHAKTIVEDANTA BOOK ACCOUNT. Also please send me a cheque book containing ten cheques to my above American address. Also please let me know the present or current ex- change rate for American dollars in In- dian rupees. I hope you will please note the above points carefully and reply this letter at your earliest opportunity and oblige. Thanking you in anticipation, Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami New York 3rd August, 1966 66-8-3 Manager First National City Bnak Grand Street Branch Grand St. and Bowery New York 13 N.Y. Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that I have to trans- fer 1500/- Indian rupees to my Account (Savings) No.1452 with the Bank of Baroda Limited Chandni Chawk Branch Delhi-6, India from my savings bnak a/c with you. Please let me know how many dollars I have to withdraw for the exchange and your charges for transfer by air mail. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-10-1 New York 3rd October, 1966 Mr. K. B. Mehta Assistant Manager Scindia Steam Navigation Company Central Bank Building 33 Netaji Subhas Road Calcutta 1, India My Dear Mr. Mehta, Kindly refer to your letter dated 27th June, 1966. Now, immediately, some foods are to be dispatched from Delhi and Calcutta on my account to New York. You have written to say that the goods should be cleared and passed by the customs un- der a certain bill. But I do not know who 1966 111 will take charge of clearing these goods and getting them passed by the customs house. If you will, therefore, let me know the name of your clearing agent in Cal- cutta then I can send the railway receipt to him so that he can clear the goods from railway station and forward to your boat or your ship, and I’m prepared to pay for clearing and forwarding charges. In the meantime, Swami Bhakti Vilas Tirtha of Chaitanya Research Institute of 71 B Rash Behari Avenue may send you some goods for forwarding. Please arrange to receive the goods and forward to New York by any one of your freighters. And also let me know by return of post your authorized clearing and forwarding agent. Also let me know whether the goods sent from Delhi may be booked for Calcutta or Co- chin port. You can let me know whichever is convenient so that I shall advise my man in Delhi to follow your instruction. You can send a copy of reply of this letter to my agent at Mathura. His address is as fol- lows, Swami B. V. Narayan Maharaj, Ke- sabji Goudeya Matha, Kanstila, P. O. Mathura, India. My best regards, for you all Swami A. C. Bhaktivedanta 66-10-2 New York 29th October, 1966 My dear Janis, I thank you for your letter of 25th in- stant and I have noted the contents care- fully. I have complete agreement with for the arrangement that you desire to make in connection with the Exhibition at Mon- treal. Yes we shall go in a batch for per- forming the Kirtan ceremony both in the exhibition pandal as well as in the Univer- sity Hall and you can arrange in that way. Here things are improving and people in New York taking in importance the Kir- tan movement. The enclosed Papers and newspaper cutting will give you an idea. We have already published some new lit- eratures namely Krishna Reservoir of All Pleasure, Who is Crazy? Introduction to Bhagavad Gita, Back to Godhead, etc and our Society is coming in prominence daily. We are just trying to purchase a property in New York at $90000.00 and the students are taking the responsibility. Thus I think there is good prospect for this Society being an World organisation and you must try to have a centre at Montreal as soon as possible. Under separate post parcel I am send- ing you all the above newly published lit- eratures and I shall request you to enlist as many subscribers for Back to Godhead Magazine because we have to submit at least 200 subscribers names tothe the postal authorities for getting the conces- sional rates. I am glad to learn that you are chanting regularly and I hope you are gradually getting some enlightenment in Krshna Consciousness. Our path is genuine sub- lime and easy. So there must be an world wide organisation for pushing the move- ment in the Human society so much af- flicted by material advancement only. This is only medium to save the people from ruination. AS my representative you can see Mr. Luthra and arrange things as you think best. Whatever arrangement you will make on behalf of the Society will be ac- cepted by us. I understand that you have done some French rendition of my writings including the essay which you have taken with you. I have now about 150 sets of Bhagavatam with me. Please let me know if you have already sold the sets that you have taken from here. Hope you are well with my good wishes for you and your wife. Yours affectionately A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 112 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 66-11-1 New York 13th November, 1966 Madame Sumati Morar ji Bai Saheba, Please accept my greetings, and I hope everything is well with you. Surely you will be very much pleased to know that my preaching work is getting ground in this country. The most impor- tant factor is that my followers and assist- ants are all young Americans. They are educated and possess an aptitude for grasping reality. Under separate cover, I am dispatch- ing the following publications which my Society has already published: 2 issues of Back to Godhead, Who is Crazy? Krishna the Reservoir of Pleasure, and Introduction to Geetopanisad. And I am enclosing herewith the prospec- tus of the Society and some press cuttings from which you will know how the move- ment is growing. I am very much obliged to you for all your supports for me in my mission, and I shall be more glad if you enroll yourself as an honorary member in this great Society. Some of my Indian friends have already acceded to this request. I hope you will also do so. I want to make this movement actually international, and as a great devo- tee of Lord Krishna, not only yourself but all others should become members of this International Society. Tomorrow we are just going to celebrate Lord Krishna’s worship as Gridhari at Gobardhan Pujah, and we have invited many tfriends to par- take of Prasadam. You will be glad to learn that I am distributing Prasadam to my followers (20) daily, and Krishna is ar- ranging food for them. I wish to increase this number more and more, and my good boys are trying to purchase a bigger house for this purpose. Sriman Choksi, your secretary, wanted to visit the States while I was com- ing. Now I am in a position to sponsor him. If you so desire, please let me know and I shall send the sponsoring letters in this connection. My blessing for Choksi and all your staff members, and my good wishes for you. Awaiting your early reply, Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami enclosures: 3 66-11-2 New York 26th November, 1966 The Universal Book House Sita Bhavan, Tulsipipe Road Dadar, Bombay-28, India. Dear Mr. Dharwadkar, Please accept my greetings. Kindly re- fer to your letter of the 26th February 1966. If you have not been able to sell all the books left with you for sale, you may kindly return the books to Srimati Morarji (Sumati) of Scindia House Dougall Road, Ballard State, Bom- bay. Or if you think you shall be able to sell them you can keep the books on sales account and in that case you will please immediately hand over two sets of Book (Srimad Bhagavatam) to Sri- mati Sumati Morarji as abovementioned and oblige. I shall be glad to receive from you a statement of account for Books sold and amount deposited with the Bank Kindly treat this as urgent and oblige. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 1966 113 New York 26th November, 1966 66-11-3 Madame Sumati Morarji Baisaheba, I thank you very much for your letter of the 22nd instant and have noted the con- tents. I am enclosing herewith one copy of the letter to my booksellers in Bombay. Kindly get in touch with them and take de- livery of Two sets of (three volumes each) Srimad Bhagavatam. Thank you very much for your enquiry about the printing of my books. I beg to inform you that the printing work is now suspended on account of my being absent from India. The books manuscript are ready for printing. I was printing them with great difficulty by collecting snall ammount of mony and due to my absence they are not being printed. If your good- self or somebody else come forward to co- operate in this connection the printing work can immediately be revived. In the meantime I have also prepared a commen- tary on the Bhagavad Gita purely on Bhakti principle and when published it will be an unique publication of Bhagavad Gita as it is. So far all the commentaries made on the Bhagavad Gita like Dr. Radhakrishna or others, they have no knowledge in the Bhakti cult. Therefore such commentaries on the Bhagavad Gita are no authorised. “Bhakta asi priya asi me rahasya hi etad uttamam” No body has any access in the Bhagavad Gita with- out being devotee of the Lord. But all the commentaries in English now available in the market are made by the non devotee mental speculators. As such if my Bha- gavad Gita will be an unique presentation if they are published. I shall be very much glad if you kindly cooperate in this con- nection. I have not as yet received the reply of my letter dated 13th instant and I hope to receive it soon. I consider your goodself as one of the associates of Srimati Radharani Lord Krishna’s most beloved consort. So your prayer to Lord Krishna for success of my mission in the Wwestern countries will surely be heard. But at the same time I ex- pect full cooperation of all devotees of Krishna in India specially in Bombay in this mighty progress. I wish to train up the American youths in the line of devotional service and entrust them with Temples of Sri Sri Radha Krishna in various parts of this part of the world. With my good wishes, I beg to remain Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 66-12-1 New York 10th December, 1966 Janis Dambergs 311 Saint Louis Square Montreal, 18, Quebec Canada My dear Janis, Iam so glad to receive your kind letter, dated November 30, 1966, with enclosure of $50.00 on account for my books. Thank you very much. Just on receipt of your letter, I have already sent you, through the Railway Express Company, the following books and literatures: 18 sets Srimad Bhagawatam 25 copies Krishna the Reservoir of Pleasure—25 cents 25 copies Who Is Crazy?—25 cents 40 copies Introduction to Geetopanisad—35 cents 40 copies Back to Godhead (#1)—15 cents 35 copies Back to Godhead (#2)—15 cents 35 copies Back to Godhead (#3)—15 cents I am so glad to hear that you are now married. I pray Krishna that you may live 114 Letters from Srila Prabhupada henceforward happily as a householder, without thinking of a separation from your wife. According to Vedic wisdom, a good wife is a great assistant for material and spiritual prosperity. Even if there is some deficiency, you should try to correct it without thinking in the Westernized way. I hope your wife may be taking inter- est in your chanting Sankirtan and reading Srimad Bhagawatam. As she has become your life’s companion, it is your duty to in- duce her, peacefully, in the matter of spiri- tual advancement of life. Material bodily conditions may be taken as secondary. Your primary occupa- tion should be Krishna Consciousness. I am sorry to learn that you have lost some money, to the extent of $350, and that you are involved in some court case. In the fu- ture, as far as possible, try to avoid such entanglements. Of course, Krishna will save you if you are forced to be so entan- gled Now you can distribute the books and the paper, Back to Godhead, to the best of your capacity, and if you require more, we shall be glad to send them. When you send the remittance, please also send separate accounts for the books and the other literatures. I think I shal be engaged in California during January and February. So, April and May will be quite suitable for me to go to Montreal. To go at both times will not be possible. If, however, I do not go to California, then I shall write to you. I thank your father for his remember- ing me, and if I meet him sometime, I shall not disclose your wedding, rest as- sured. Please send me your news at least twice in a month. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 66-12-2 New York 15th December, 1966 Sri Nripendra Nath Banerji Late Principal of Kanyakub ja College Elliot Road. Birpur. My dear Nripen Babu, Kindly accept my greetings and bless- ings of Sri Sri Radha Damodar Dev Tha- kura. I hope everything is going well with you. Since I came to America I desired to write you letter several times but I for got your address. I wrote several letters to your brother at Vrindaban but I have re- ceived no reply from him. I do not know why. I am therefore writing to you al- though I do not definitely your address. I do not know whether you will receive this letter and still I hope this will reach you and I hope you will kindly reply this letter promptly. Since I have come to America in Sep- tember 1965, I have travelled many parts of the country specially Pennsylvania, Phaladelphia, Pitsburge, Butler, Slipery Rock, Monroe, Boston and now I am situated in New York the biggest city in the world. I have started a small Ashram at the above address and yong American stu- dents are taking very great interest in the philosophy of Vaisnavism based on the Bhagvadgita and Srimad Bhagwatam. My books are selling here and I have pub- lished many small books also since I have come here. My fortnightly magazine “Back to Godhead” is also being regu- larly published and my lectures and Kir- tan have been recorded in Phonograph. The important papers have given me pub- licity and things are growing nicely. I have established a Society here under the name and style INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR KRISHNA CONSCIOUSNESS INC andthe Trustees ofthis society are all American and my disciples. They are go- ing purchasing house in New York and as 1966 115 soon as the house is purchased I shall es- tablish in New York a Temple of SRI SRI RADHA KRISHNA for the first time. Sir Padampat Singhania of your city of Kan- pur was ready to spend lakhs of rupees for this temple in New York but Govt. of India did not sanction exchange from India. So I am trying locally to start the temple and most probably I shall be successful to start one not only in New York but also one in California and the other in Montreal (Canada) in both cities there are my disci- ples who are already working there. I hope you will be pleased to learn about considerable success in my preaching ac- tivities. Now one thing I beg to draw your at- tention is the Rupanuga Para Vidya Pitha which I wanted to start in Vrindaban within the vicinity of Radha Damodar Mandir. If it is possible to get some vacant land for constructing the building. My American students are ready to spend for this and I think if you give some land on lease terms, then I can immediately begin the work. Perhaps you may remember that when I first came to your temple, this was my proposal and both yourself and Gorachand Goswami agreed to this. Later on when I wanted to do the work your brother indirectly declined. So I did not attempt any thing. Now I am serious about this building and if you so desire you can give me some land on lease terms. Off course there is ample land in Vrindaban to Start this institution, but my aimis to start it in the land of Sri Sri Radha Damodar Temple which I think is very good for every one concerned. I want to start a nice International Institute at the place of Srila Goswami is silent on this point and therefore I am writing to you. The idea is very good and I hope you will ap- preciate it. Any way it is up to you to ac- cept the proposal or reject it but I shall be glad to hear from you about your honest opinion on this. My mission is developthe glories of Srila Jiva Goswami all over the world and I think you should cooperate with my honest endeavour. Kindly reply this letter promptly if you receive it. I shall be glad to hear about your sons. Specially your youngest son. How he is feeling in the absence of his be- loved mother. I hope you are taking proper care of the boy. He is very intelli- gent. Ifyou so desire I canhelp him in get- ting education in some of the American institutions for being great scholar in any line. Thanking you in anticipation and awaiting your early reply. Hope you are well. With my regards I beg to remain, Yours very sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. I do not wish to disturb the position of the sevaits of Radha Damodar Temple, but simply if I am given the facility to live there with my disciples, it will be my plea- sure to serve Their Lordships Sri Sri Radha Damodar to my best capacity. Now it is up to you all sevaits to decide on this fact. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ACBS/sdn cc: Nripendra Nath Baner jee Mathuram Goswami 1967 JANUARY San Francisco 19th January, 1967 67-1-1 My Dear Brahmananda, Hayagriva, Kirtanananda, Satsvarupa, Gargamuni, Achyutananda, Jadurani, Please accept my greetings and bless- ings of Guru Gouranga Giridhari Gan- dharvika. You have already got the news of our safe arrival and good reception by the devotees here. Mr. Allen Ginsberg and about fifty or sixty others received us on the air port and when I arrived in my apartment there were some press re- porters also who took note of my mission. Two three papers like the Examiner and the Chronicle etc. have already published the report. One of the reports is sent here- with please find. I wish that 1000 copies of this report may be offset printed at once and 100 copies of the same may be sent here as soon as possible. I understand that you are feeling my absence. Krishna will give you strength. Physical presence is immaterial; presence of the transcendental sound received from the spiritual master should be the guid- ance of life. That will make our spiritual life successful. If you feel very strongly about my absence you may place my pic- tures on my sitting places and this will be source of inspiration for you. Iam very much anxious to hear about the final decision of the house. I wish to open the house by the Ist of March 1967 and arrangement may be done dexterously in this connection. I have not as yet re- ceived the tapes for Dictaphone and I have sent you tapes yesterday. Please offer my blessings to Sriman Neal. Sriman Rayarama is cooking well and distributing Prasadam to the devotees numbering sometimes seventy. It is very encouraging. I think this centre will be very nice branch without delay. Every- thing is prospective. Hope you are all well and awaiting your early reply. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 67-1-2 San Francisco 22nd January, 1967 Montreal My dear Janardan, I thank you for your letter of January 17, 1967, redirected from New York. I have come here on the 16th instant by United Airline Jet plane, and I am glad to inform you that my students here— especially Mike and Harvey—made very nice arrangements for receiving me. The center is open now and exactly like New York we are executingthe service re- gualrly. Some of the devotees will be initi- ated today. Now it is your turn to open a similar branch at Montreal. To opena branch and to conduct it nicely according to our line of action is the path of Krishna Con- sciousness. In my absence in.New York the students are nicely managing affairs. They, although feeling my absence, are not discouraged. Rather they are execut- ing the service very nicely and exactly. I think they will manage to purchase the house under negotiation. 80% of the transaction is finished. They are taking a 120 Letters from Srila Prabhupada great burden in paying $200,000.00. They are very enthusiastic, and I hope you will also manage to open a nice branch at Montreal like that. In the spiritual world also there is competition for the best satis- faction of Krishna. I hope you will take me to your place by the month of April, 1967—or earlier as you think best. Before returning to India, if I am able to run at least three centers like the one in New York, another in San Francisco and the other in Montreal, then I shall feel successful in my mission. I hope you will help me in this direction and oblige. Ranchor has come with me from New York. Yes, he has your goods in his apart- ment. Herewith you may find his note in this connection. I am also enclosing a press cutting which will speak for itself. Hope you are well, and with best wishes for Mrs. Dum- bergs. The girl is very intelligent, and you should peacefully teach her about our great mission in the world. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-1-3 San Francisco 25th January, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, I am in due receipt of your letter of the 21st instant and later on yesterday I have received five tapes in good condition out of which I have sent today two tapes duly recorded. So long am here I shall send you two tapes duly recorded every day and similarly you also send me two tapes daily so that there will be no difficulty. While coming San Francisco I advised both Kirtananada and Gargamuni to des- patch one tape reel to India. It was duly packed and addressed as follows: Sri Radharaman Das Brahmachary Sri Goudiya Sanghasram 23 Doctor Lane Calcutta-14 India. I am very much anxious to know if this reel has already been despatched by air mail. If not please immediately do it and let me know that you have done so. I have received letter from the above Brahma- chary that he has not as yet received the same. Please treat this as very urgent. Sriman Karalapati (Carl Yeargans) has sent me one check for ten dollars which I am enclosing herewith for credit of his ac- count and he has said that some of his rela- tives would pay $50.00. If not received please let Sri Karalapati be informed of his dues till now and he would remit. His address in Greece is as follows: K. Yeargans, Poste Restante, Lindos Rhodos, Greece Also please send him all the copies of Back to Godhead and other literatures so far published. He is very anxious to get my commentary on the Bhagavat Gita. So let me know if there is any possibility of publishing this book from U.S.A. other- wise I shall immediately arrange for its printing in India. The translation and commentary is already finished. Z shall begin Chaitanya Charitamrita Essays & Text. If I am assisted by one expert type- writer like Neal, as he is doing now, we can publish every three months a book. And the more we have books, the more we become respectable. It is understood that $5000.00 five thousands of dollars have already been credited in the account of INTERNA- TIONAL SOCIETY FOR KRISHNA CONSCIOUSNESS INC. on January 23,1967 and as advised by me in my pre- vious letter the payment should be made to the seller of the House under strict in- struction of the Laywer appointed in this connection. In India it is the custom that immediately after payment the buyer gets possession of the house immediately. I JANUARY, 1967 121 think the same procedure is followed in this country. Further, $200.00 may be transferred to my account in the Trade Bank And Trust Co. at 4th street for purchasing some mu- sical instruments for Mr. Janathan Al- tman. This month as usual the check may not be sent to him but advice may be sent to him that the ammount has been paid to my account for purchasing his musical in- struments in India. The cost will be about $500.00 out of which $200.00 has to be sent immediately. So after transferring the above ammount you can let us both know about it so that I can take the necessary steps. While Kirtananda coming he may bring with him some stationery and enve- lopes of the Society as well as dry man- goejuice for me. Kirtananda knows where to get it. [have also sent some instructions with Rayrama and I hope you have re- ceived the same. Here everything is going well. Four devotees have been initiated and two devo- tees have been married. On the marriage ceremony day there was extraordinary gatherings (150 at least) and all of them were distributed prasadam. Sriman Ran- chor assisted by some girls prepared Ka- chauri, Samsoa, Iskcon Balls, Puri, Chatni etc and there were many fruits also and all the guests enjoyed the Prasadam very nicely. The initiated persons are as follows: Sri Haridas Brahmachary, (Harvey cohen) Sri Shyamsunder Adhikary (Sam) Srimati Malati Devi (Mrs Melody) Srimati Harsa Devi (Miss. Hope) In the morning class there are not less than 25 students and in the evening there are 30 to 50 students. And I think they are gradually understanding the philosophy seriously. Sriman Mukinda Das has in view a plot of land about sixty acres for the society and he wishes to organise our community camp there. It is very encour- aging. Please reply this letter point by point and let me know the progress of the house purchasing negotiation. Hope you are do- ing well with greater enthusiasm even though I am absent. Please take care of Ja- durani so that her painting work may go on very nicely. She is entrusted with great responsibility. More in my next. With my sincere blessings for you all, Iam Yours ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosure check for $10.00 67-1-4 San Francisco 30th January, 1967 My dear Jadurani, Please accept by blessings. I have heard about your good work although you did not write me. I always remember you as the nicest girl because you are so de- voutly engaged in the service of Krishna. I am sure Krishna is pleased on you and He will bestow His blessings upon you. Bet- ter you accept Krishna as your Husband and He will never be unfaithful. Mundane husbands and wives never agree with one another. Because in the material world the relations are on the basis of body which is false basically. Under the circumstanc how we can have the genuine thing on platform of false existence. Devote your- self therefore 24 hours in the service of Krishna and see how yo feel happy in all respects. You are very good girl, because I have heard you chanting while working. It is very good and may Krishna give you more and more enlightenment. I always pray that you may be happy by our Lord’s Grace. I shall be glad to hear from you. Yours ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 122 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessing. I under- stand that Neal has left us and you have taken the responsibility for typing the re- cords. Please let me know how many tapes are with you. I think you have five tapes with you because I have got only three with me. See that the tapes do not miss. You are a sincere devotee of the Lord and certainly He will bless you with auspicious advancement in the matter of spiritual understanding. Your assistant Ranchor is doing well with me. He is not now disturbed in his mind. I hope you are all in full cooperation in the service of Krishna. I shall be glad to hear from you. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Achyutananda, Please accept my blessings. Since Kir- anananda is absent certainly you are feel- ing some strain. But the more you serve Krishna the more you become stronger. I hope you are being properly assisted by your other Godbrothers. I shall be glad to hear from you. May Krishna give you all protection in the discharge of your tran- scendental duties. Yours ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Gargamuni, Since I have come here I did not hear from you. Hope you are doing well with full cooperation of your elderly God brothers. Did you go to your mother along with Brahmananda? I hope she is alright now. I have already transferred $5000.00 to the A/c of International Society for Krishna Consciousness Inc. Checks should be drawn with full deliberance. Have you transferred $200.00 to my ac- count instead of sending the check to Mr. Altman? I have already sent you instruc- tions in this connection. Shall be glad to hear from you. Hope you are well. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Up to date I have only 5 tapes with me. Please let me know how many you counted altogether. 67-1-5 San Francisco 30th January, 1967 My dear Rayrama, I am in due receipt of your letter of thr 26th instant. The service proposal is very nice and I approve of your acceptance this job.Not only your income will be a great help to the society but also it will be a great opportunity for learning how to or- ganise our magazine Back to Godhead. This Back to Godhead will always remain the backbone of the society because more the magazine is popular the more society becomes popular. So your ambition should always be how to improve the quality of the paper so that it may be read by all respectable persons. In future we may have one French edition of this paper. If our Back to Godhead goes on nicely then we can have our all publications without waiting for any other publishers. Regarding Srimad Bhagavad Gita I am now arranging to get it published indepen- dently and to print it in India because it will be cheaper. What we will spend for 2000 copies here will be sufficient for printing 5000 copies in India. And the abridged edition may be printed here through some publisher. I have asked Howard to edit it immediately. I am so much pleased to learn that everything is going on well at N.Y. centre. So long our Kirtan is alright there is no difficulty at all. Hope you are well along with your other God brothers and sisters. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami JANUARY, 1967 123 My dear Brahmananda, I am in due receipt of your letter of the 28th instant. I was very much eager to get the records but they are still de- layed. Our yesterdays function was very successful. There were about 1500 or more audience and all of them chanted and danced continually for one hour and fifteen minutes. I came back at 11-30 at night. I think Sriman Haridas Brah- machary (Harvey) will contribute $1000.00 towards the building fund at New York. I am sorry that the Lawyer of the owner is delaying the matter. Will the proprietor of the house be carried by the Lawyer? If it is so what is the use of wasting time in that way. If they are seri- ous they must finish the business with- out delay. I wish that we must enter the house by the 1st of March 1967. Please try to secure a copy of each film so far taken of us while performing Kir- tan. If required we may pay something for this; better they should contribute a film to the society as we have not charged any- thing. If we get the filsm we can then pur- chase a projector to show in different places. Please send the records as early as possible. There is possiblity of selling a great number of records here. They are all purchasing cash. Please expedite the matter. One thing you may note also as a mat- ter of etiquete. The Spiritual Master is ad- dressed as His Divine Grace, a God- brother is addressed as His Grace, and any Sannyasin is addressed as His Holiness. I am very much anxious to know about the progress of the house negotiation as well the records. Hope you are well. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami FEBRUARY San Francisco 3rd February, 1967 67-2-1 my dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter with enclosures and have seen the balance sheet. I have seen also the check account. Thank you very much. I think you are now expert ac- count keeper may Krishna bless you for talents and sincere endeavour for service of the Lord. The more you serve the more you become expert in everything. Now you should become little cautious to sign checks. At least $6000.00 now should always remain in the Bank without fail. Expenditure should be met with from balance above $6000.00. In other words this should be the deadline for drawing check. I had talk with your brother Brahm- ananda yesterday on the dial. I am glad that Mr. Payne has promised to re- turn the amount $750.00 in case no sale contract is made. But any case you should not pay any farthing more than what you have already paid either to the Lawyer or to Mr. Payne unless there is actual sale contract is made. It appears to me very gloom about the transaction because there was no basic understanding before the payment of $1000.00 either to the Lawyer or to the Real estate. This is not business- like. Unless there is no basic understand- ing where is the way of transaction. If there was no basic understanding why so much waste of time and energy I cannot understand. And if there was basic under- standing why it is changed so quickly. I am therefore perturbed in the mind. When there was no basic understanding what was the need for appointing Lawyer. Any- way it is my advice that you should consult me before issuing any further money. But I hope you will make the transaction suc- cessful without further delay. I hope you are duly receiving my tapes and Sriman Neal has no difficulty for typ- ing. Today also I have received one tape from you and I have sent you five tapes in three days hope you have received them duly. Please consult the Dictaphone sup- plier why the it stops sometime while working. It appears that it clogs either for the tape or for the machine. Please let me know what is to be done. Does the tape or the machine require to be cleaned. So far the machine is concerned it is brand new and there is no need of cleaning the ma- chine. But if the tapes are to be cleaned how it is to be done. Please consult the gentleman who supplied the machine and let me know the instruction. If there is cleaning instruction either of the tape or some part of the machine how it is to be done and what are mediums please let me know in detail. I am also sending the pass book under separate post please find and do the needful. A letter for Neal is also en- closed herewith please find. I hope you have all received all my other letters. Please send me regularly the Mango- juce (dry) and Papad made by Bedekar with spices. I hope Kirtanananda has already ar- rived destination. I shall be glad to hear from him. Hope you are all well and per- forming Kritan regularly. Kirtananda has learned one tune to be sung in the morning which please practice as far as possible. 126 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Brahmananda must attend his office timely so that he may not be called for ex- planation or reprimanded. Now Kri- tanananda is there and I think there will be no difficulty in the management. I have received the cover of the record and hope to receive the records as early as possible. Thanking you all for your sincere ser- vice to the Lord. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami. Enclosure: 1 67-2-2 San Francisco 10th February, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Iam in due receipt of your note along with Sriman Kir- tanananda’s letter. They are very much anxious to get the records since you have sent the cover only. Please ask Mr. Lerner if Mr. Kallman is unwilling to send the re- cords for reasons known to him so that I can inform here to the parties concerned. We must have some definite understanding instead of prolonging a matter. I think ev- erything is going well there by the Grace of Lord Krishna. I have invitations from other organisations to lecture on 11th, 12th and 14th at Self Realisation Organisation, Himalayan Accademy Administration and San Francisco University College. Some of them writes as follows: “Your Holiness: You have brought great beauty and har- mony to our community through your love and devotion. Many souls have found their inner peace in your teachings of the Krishna Consciousness” I could have im- mediately distributed many records in these meetings by practical demonstration of the records. What shall I do with the empty case? I cannot understand the policy of Mr. Kallman. Please try to understand him and let me know what is the actual position. My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your note. Yes please send me immediately one copy of Bhakti Sutra (with original Sankrit text). I shall imme- diately begin the commentary. Yes you can edit on the tapes of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. I am very pleased to receive your voluntary offer. Thank you very much. My Dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of 7th (March) February 1967 and I am very glad to learn that you are improving your department very nicely. I learn also that you made the new Kachouri according to my direction and it has come out very successful. I have tought two more things to Ranchor namely “Nan khatai” and “Peda” which you have to learn from him by succession. Srimati Jadurani writes “many of Swami Satcitananda’s disciples were present in the last Sunday’s feasting and returned this morning to Kirtan. Our traps are too strong to resist.” I think you will agree with her. I am glad to learn that the film taken by Mr. Richard Witty has come out very successful. It is all Krishna’s bless- ings. I think we may purchase one copy of the film at some concessional rate from Mr. Witty. Regarding the house I was corect in my remarks that there was no definite under- standing. If Mr. Taylor can change his word of honour transpired between him and Mr. Payne certainly that is not definite understanding. Mr.Taylor’s lawyer can- not change the understanding between the two gentleman, he can simply give a legal shape only. Therefore, in such negotia- tions everthing is done in black and white. Nothing is being done in black and white but everything is being done with faith on Mr. Payne. Now forget what has been done in the FEBRUARY, 1967 127 past. Do it now businesslike. Mr.Taylor’s lawyer has agreed to accept $105,000 cash for the house “‘as is”? and Mr. Payne has agreed to pay the same secured from Pitsburge. Let this understanding be com- pleted within lst of March 1967 and close the chapter. I think this is my last word in this connection. You are all grown up boys and you use your discretion and you can now complete the transaction without prolonging it indefinitely. If, however, we are not able to purchase a house it does not mean closing our activity at 26 Second av- enue. So there is no question of packing up and come to S.F. Regarding your editing, I would very much like it. I am sending my lecture cop- ies to you. I think my other copies are ly- ing on the left side of my seat in a cardboard box which please find out. Please be careful not to change the ideas. My dear Rayrama, I have not heard from you since a long time. I hope you are doing well with your new job. Now as I am going to send the Geetopanisad to India for printing, please see the lst and 2nd chapters finally if there areany grammatical or spelling mis- takes. Also mark the verses with diacritic signs as they are in Dr. Radhakrishnan’s book. Mark the words in synonyms also. When you let me know that you have done it then I shall ask you to send it to India. With my blessings I hope everything is well there. My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I have al- ready informed you that the Dictaphone is clogging at the last stage from point 25. Is it due to the tape or the machine? Please let me know what to do. Also please pay the rent of Ranchor’s apartment since he is here. I hope you are well. Mydear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 7th Febru- ary 1967 and have carefully noted the con- tents. May krishna be pleased on you more and more for your sincere service. As you are good artist so also you write good hand. Accept Krishna as your hus- band and He will never cheat you. He is competent to maintain any number of wife with full comforts because He is Omnipotent. So remain busy in the ser- vice of your Husband and you will be happy in this life as well as in the next. May Krishna award with His all benedic- tions upon you. Yours ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-3 San Francisco 11th February, 1967 My dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 7th Febru- ary and am surprised to note that tempera- ture of New York has gone down below Zero and there was a regular snow bliz- zard for two days. Certainly this situation would have been a little troublesome for me because I am old man. I think Krishna wanted to protect me by shifting here at San Francisco. Here the climate is cer- tainly like India and I am feeling com- fortable but uncomfortable also because at New York I felt at Home on account of so many beloved students like you. As you are feeling my absence so I am feeling for you. But we are all happy on account of Krishna Consciousness either here or there. May Krishna join us always in His transcendental service. I am very glad to learn that Eric has learnt Krishna Con- sciousness better than his parents. I thank him very much. This is the example of un- sophisticated mind. The child is innocent 128 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and therefore he has taken the conscious- ness so quickly. And he appears to be pre- viously practiced to such consciousness. Please help him more and it is the duty of good parents to help their children ad- vanced in Krishna consciousness. I am gald to learn-that devotees at New York are improving especially in the chanting on beeds. This evening we had very successful performances of Kirtan and discourses for two hours (7-9 P.M.) at the Himalayan Academy the Christian Yoga Church and there were about 100 respectable gather- ings. All the ladies and gentlemen were cultured and decent and all of them appre- ciated our Kirtan and lectures. They pro- fusely garlanded me and exposed me for photosnaps. Ranchor played the Harmo- nium and they were pleased with his play- ing and garlanded him. They handed over to me some collection about $12.00 and most probably they will invite us again for such performances. The students of this Himalayan Academy have built a very nice temple and I wish the students in New York also finish the proposed building as nicely as they have done at San Francisco. Tomorrow we are going to see Dr. Hari- das Chowdhury one Calcuttaman who has a similar institution under the name of Self Realisation Organisation of San Francisco. An American gentleman Kriy- ananda (J.Donald Walters) will take me there by engagement. And in the evening to-morrow a couple will be married and two students will initiated prior to their marriage. And the same Kirtan function will be performed at California college on the 14th instant Tuesday. I think our popu- larity in this part of the country is increas- ing. I think in New York also you should arrange for such Kirtan programes in dif- ferent churches and societies on off days like Tuesday, Thursday, Saturdays. Wher- ever we get opportunities we must per- form such Kirtan. My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have by this time received my former let- ter and the package of lectures for editing. I have received one letter from Janis Dum- burges at Montreal proposing a Branch there and he has selected one very nice place for this purpose. He wants two stu- dents from New York to help him and four hundred dollars. I wish therefore that you should at once go there for a week or so and if you approve this place and pros- pect, we can begin a Branch there also. He has asked help for $400.00 in this con- nection. And if you approve then both New York and San Francisco will contrib- ute each $200.00 and this may be returned by the Montreal Branch later on. I wish that each and every Branch shall keep their independent identity and cooperate keeping the Acharya in the centre. On this principle we can open any number of Branches all over the world. The Rama- krishna mission works on this principle and thus as organisation they have done wonderfully. Bob is prepared to go there also but I shall send him to assist you there on hear- ing from you from Montreal. The address of Janardan Das Adhikary (Janis Dum- bergs) is as follows: 311 St. Louis Square Apartment # 2 Montreal Quebec, Canada. The thing is that in April 1967, there will be a great exposition and millions of people will gather there from all parts of the world. We have to prepare literatures both in En- glish and French and have to draw the atten- tion of the university students as our members. Mr. Janis proposes that by end of March 1967 the Branch organisation must be completed and by the end of third week of April I shall go there after opening of our New York house (as per present negotia- tion). I think the idea is good and we shall take the opportunity and for this Z select you FEBRUARY, 1967 129 to go there first and study the prospective situation immediately. I shall be glad to know per return of post about your decision in this connection or if you start immedi- ately on receipt of this letter then you can write me from Montreal. Neal has not yet arrived here. My dear Gargamuni, I am anxious to hear from you about the clogging of the tapes in dictaphone. Please ask the supplier why it is clogging at the end say from .25 to .30 situation. How to solve this problem. Please let me know. I have now only one tape with me and what about the others. I shall be glad to hear from you. My dear Jadurani, If Kirtananda goes to Montreal you can give him one Visnu Picture. I hope you have received the Visnunames sent by me. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. My dear Rayrama, Please keep in touch with Mr. Leo Ypstantin. One Indian gentleman who is here for the last five years as permanent resident, suggests that if my students and admirers submit appli- cation to the visa department submit that they want me for their benefit they sanc- tion Permanent Resident Visa: Several other organizations the mothers my students as admirers, papers haveappreciated my work. Why not adopt this procedure before the expiring of my tentative period. Please consult Mr. Yp- stantin and let me know his opinion. Show him the cuttings. ACB 67-2-4 San Francisco 14th February, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept blessings and offer the same to all your Godbrothers and sisters. With reference to your telephonic conver- sation last night and your letter of the 10th February, I beg to inform you that the Branch at San Francisco will act as a sepa- rate identity and the New York establish- ment has nothing to take risk for this centre. I have also received the letter of Mr. Altman and I shall act according to his de- sire. So you can transfer $200.00 for Al- tman and $6000.00 altogether $6200.00 to my savings account No.19282 at the Trade Bank And Trust Company and let- ter of transfer is enclosed herewith. I have duly signed the letter and you also sign it and forward it to the Bank. They will do the needful. This $6000.00 will be trans- ferred forthwith by me as soon as there is a Sale contract for purchase of the house. Till then it will remain in my Savings Ac- count. When actually there is Salecontract signed I shall induce the San Francisco Branch to contribute $1000.00 positively rest assured. In the opinion of the devotees and trustees here $1000.00 dollar has been risked without any understanding. I know that you are doing your best but still there has been an error of judgment. I am not at all displeased with you but they say that Mr. Payne will never be able to secure fi- nancial help from any other source. He is simply taking time under different pretext changing constantly. Therefore you should not pay even a farthing more than what you have paid. If he wants any more money you should flatly refuse. Kirtanananda’s presence in New York is essential; therefore I have postponed his journey to Montreal. Advice of friends here has been accepted by me that opening of too many branches at the present stage will be too heavy for us. Let us consoli- date there in two places which we have al- ready opened. Besides that the Montreal Branch wants men and Money which we 130 Letters from Srila Prabhupada cannot spare at the present moment. Your note on the dictaphone is taken care of. It is sent for adjustment because there is some defect in the machine. In the meantime they have supplied a machine for my work. I have now five tapes only. Thee more required. Neal has not come here. Chant Hare Krishna be jolly. We are all secured by Krishna rest assured. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure :1 San Francisco 15th February, 1967 67-2-5 My dear Sat-svarupa, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have received my previous notes sent to you in different letters. I have not as yet received the copy of Narada Bhaktisutra which you want me to write commen- taries. I hope you are duly editing the tapes of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. While typing the records after your edit- ing make it in duplicate and send me one copy to see how you are doing it. I have now just five tapes with me out of which I am returning one to day. Please let me know how many tapes are there till to-day. Neal was to come here but he has not come; therefore, I am sending you the tape both for typing and editing. I hope you will do it nicely. May Krishna be pleased upon you. I have advised Brahmananda to trans- fer $6200.00 to my savings account and please see that it is immediately done. I have sent him the letter of transfer simply he has to sign it or you may sign it and for- ward it to the Bank. I allowed you to deal with the Bank for two reasons. 1 That I may be free from monetary dealings 2. That you may learn also how to deal with. But recent indiscriminate issues of checks have perturbed my mind. By indiscrimi- nate issues of checks $1000.00 of socie- ty’s money have been put into risk. So far I can see from the correspon- dence of Brahmananda it is not possible for us to get the house for so many rea- sons. The main reason is that we have no money to pay cash and no body is going to invest cash in that house because it is nei- ther complete nor has any income. It is simply utopian to think of possessing the house and Mr. Payne is simply giving us false hope. That is the verdict of devotees and trustees here and for reasons I believe it is correct. Please see therefore that the above amount is immediately transferred. When actual sale contract is there I shall again retransfer the amount as I did it a few days ago. You are all innocent boys without any experience of the world. The cunning world can befool you at any time. So please be careful of the world in Krishna Con- sciousness. When Krishna will desire the house will come to us automatically. But we should not ask Krishna to give us a house let Krishna give us when He likes. If Mr. Payne is able to give us the house it is sofar very good. But from circumstances it appears that Mr. Payne cannot get financial assistance from any businessman. If some- body gives us donation for the right cause that is a different thing. So we should only wait for Krishna’s mercy and should not jeopardise the hardearned money for ser- vice of Krishna. I hope you will not misun- derstand me. Both you and Gargamuni must be careful about the accounts and see that checks above $50.00 are not issued indiscriminately. Hope you are all well and shall be glad to hear from you by return post. Please ask Rayrama to write to me. I am anxious to know if he had any talks with Mr. Ypslantin. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Note to Kirtanananda, FEBRUARY, 1967 131 My dear Kirtannananda, Your absence from New York is not ad- visable while I am not there. Therefore I have postponed your journey to Montreal. Please take care of the bill of Lading for clearing the Mridangas. I think the ship Jaladuta must be reaching New York by this time. Please do the needful and clear the valuable goods. Hope you are all well. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami San Francisco 17th February, 1967 67-2-6 My dear Brahmananda, In continuation of my yesterday’s letter and in reply to your very long letter of the 13th February 1967 I beg to inform you that I have received one letter from Mr. Payne and the copies of the schemes dated 19th January 1967 which did not fructify. It appears that Mr. Payne has not been successful to secure any financial assis- tance till the 14th february 1967 and it is hinted therein that I may also try for the source of money. I have, therefore, re- plied him and the copy of the reply is en- closed herewith please find. So my opinion on the house purchase is clearly defined there. We must have a sale contract and then let us try for the fund combinedly. That will be some prac- tical proposition. So far things have been done in “entire negotiation is irregular” as stated in your letter. Now it appears that Mr. Payne is not very hopeful himself for raising the fund otherwise he would not have written me as “It had occurred to me, your Excellency, that there might be a pssibility of money source in the area in which you are working. This I do know, money men and their operations there are not so sophisticated or unimaginative as they are here.” I think if there is sale con- tract, it may be possible to raise the fund by combined effort both here and there. Without sale contract it will be not practi- cal to raise fund. So far records are concerned, the sec- retary here told me that they are prepared to pay enough for the records up to 1500 pieces. Do not misunderstand me that I have no interest in having a permanent building at New York. I want the house more than you; my only objection is that “ This is not a regular business transaction” as admit- ted by you. Why not make it regular now as suggested by my letter to Mr Payne? If you can have a sale contract then every thing will be regular and it will be easier to raise fund. What is the difficulty in get- ting the Sale contract as suggested by me. I have not sent the Pass Book. But the letter of transfer is sufficient and I hope you have already sent the letter to the Bank. Hope you are all doing well. With my blessings for you all, Your ever welwisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-7 San Francisco 17th February, 1967 Carl E. Maxwell-Payne William Alfred White Inc. 513 Avenue of the Americans New York 11. N.Y- Dear Mr. Payne, I thank you very much for your letter of February 14, 1967 and I have received the copies of your schemes which did not fructify. From a letter of Mr. William J. Taylor dated January 20, 1967 it appears that he authorised you for first mortgage negotia- tion and I do not know how Mr. Taylor’s Lawyer can change this arrangement. I can also understand from your let- ter and other sources that so far you have not been able to secure any financial 132 Letters from Srila Prabhupada assistance with any tangible hope. You have also hinted in your letter un- der reply that I may try here some possi- bility of money source. Of course my students here raised fund by one scheme of dancing a fund of $4000.00 since I have come here and they have spent in different items almost all the fund. But they cannot take up the matter seriously unless there is fact. It may be possible to raise fund in that way if we have got actual sale- contract from Mr. Taylor on legal stand- ing. It is understood from letters of Brahmananda that the Lawyer of Mr. Tay- lor has now agreed to convey the title of the property on cash down payment of $105,000. I think you should get a sale contract on this basis and take maximum time, not less than, three months for final payment. If required you can pay earnest money at most $750.00 which you have on our behalf. If there is sale contract, my students here and in New york will be able to raise the fund very seriously. In the absence of any sale contract everything appears to be in the air and Mr. Taylor or his lawyer can change his word as he has already done. I think that is the best solution of the present deadlock. I am forwarding a copy of the letter to my students in New York. Hope you are well. With regards, Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-8 San Francisco 18th February, 1967 CONFIDENTIAL My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. With fur- ther reference to my letter of yesterday’s date I may inform you that from the letter of Mr. Payne and the schemes which pro- duced no fruit, it appears to me that he is not in a position to secure money for the house from any financial party. That is my conviction. Now if you think that he is able to secure money for us, if you think that there is something hopeful by this time then you can continue the negotia- tions as he is doing but do not for Krishna’s sake advance a farthing more on any plea by him. He may be trying his best but he is incapable to do this. That is my honest opinion. Next thing is that when a man takes work in his own hand it is sure to be done. If you are serious about purchasing the house then do not depend on Mr. Payne take the work in your own hand. Just enter with Mr. Taylor in agreement of hire pur- chase system sale contract for any rea- sonable market price. We shall pay rent to the amount of $1000.00 per month and cash down $10,000.00. The repairing work may be done by Mr. Taylor as he is doing. So long his full money is not recov- ered we shall continue to remain as tenant and as soon as his full money is paid up the title automatically becomes conveyed to us. We have already engaged our Lawyer and Mr. Taylor has his Lawyer. Let them draw a hirepurchase-sale-contract on the above basis. It is not amortisation but it is practically an agreement between the ten- ant and the Landlord. Let us remain as tenant and let Mr. Taylor remain as land lord. As Landlord he will have full right to evict us failing to pay the stipulated rent. So there is no risk on the part of Mr. Tay- lor and I hope the lawyer of Mr. Taylor will gladly accept these terms. Mr. Taylor will be profited by this, because he gets an immediate tenant and income up to 1000 dollars per month for a house which is ly- ing vacant for so many years. And for us we get a house which is suitable for us. Convince Mr. Taylor like this and enter into such hire-purchase system-sale- contract. I think this is the best solution for both Mr. Taylor and ourselves. Try FEBRUARY, 1967 133 for this and quickly occupy the house without waiting for help from so called financiers. No sane financier will invest money on the complicated schemes drawn by Mr. Payne. It is simply utopian it will never be successful. Now next proposal is that why don’t you arrange for Kirtan and lectures by me in every school, college, clubs, associa- tion, etc in New York. Now we have ‘Mri- dangas’ and cymbals. Let us organise a Kirtan party both at New York and at San- Francisco and on our off days at least twice in a week let us have our Kirtan out- side. Here the students are arranging an- other dance meeting like the one they did on the 29th January and they are expecting good collection. Even there is no good collection, by outdoor Kirtan and lectures we shall at least be popular to everyone and automatically we shall be successful in raising fund. The other day we had a very nice meeting in the California State College it was grand successful. They are going to arrange again like that in Berke- ley college where they are expecting three thousand audience. I am enclosing here- with a copy of the letter received from Himalayan Accademy. See how they are appreciating our method of peace move- ment. So in this way we have to forward our cause. No business man will come forward to help us on utopian schemes as contemplated by Mr. Payne. We have to try for ourselves. So the summary is to obtain a hire purchase sale-contract from Mr. Taylor and popularise our movement by outdoor engagements as many as possi- ble. Now my staying in your country is in- creased for two years at least and while I am here (U.S.A.) we can work tremen- dously by working ourselves on the above scheme. Let us take help from Krishna by honestly working for Him than on utopian theories. Even there are three centres I can move everywhere without any tire- some feeling. I can stay one month in each centre every quarterly and see things go- ing in order. I hope you will try to understand my view point and let me know how do you appreciate the scheme. Neal has arrived here yesteday evening and he feels joly. Please send me all the tapes that are lying there. I hope you will realise the repairing charges for Dicta- phone. There is again some defect in the microphone. It is not rewinding by push- ing the finger clip. I do not know what to do. I hope you have by this time cleared off the consignments per M.V.Jaladuta from India. And I shall be glad to know how you have received the goods. Here everything is going on nicely. I have not heard anything from Kir- tanananda. I hope everything is well there. I understand that Sriman Acyutananda is feeling my absence. I shall be very soon there. Please offer blessings every one specially Sriman Acyutananda and Sri- mati Jadurani. Please ask Gargamuni to write me occasionally about his good ac- count keeping. Please ask him to despatch all the Srimad Bhagavatam sets without delay. They have paid me the price of former consignment. It is understood that you have now an electric Typewriter. If so why not send it here to be worked on by Neal or Howard. Awaiting your early reply. Your ever welwisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami, Enclosure :1 67-2-9 San Francisco 21st February, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 18th in- stant and have noted the contents. I am 134 Letters from Srila Prabhupada glad to know that the “Happiness On Sec- ond Avenue” film has come out very happy. Please see it and let know the result. I hope you have received my last letter suggesting therein the scheme of hire purchase agreement with Mr. Taylor. I have not heard anything from Kir- tanananda till now. Neal, one day evening, came here but since then he is not here and do not know if J shall send the recorded tapes or not. Because here there is no typewriter. Howard is not serious about general typewriting. My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your statement. It appears that you have $5,823.04 in the treasury. You can therefore deposit $5,700.00 to my account by transfer advice. Since Neal is not available here, I am sending the re- corded tapes to New York for typing as you have the Dictaphone there. I am also returning the letter of authority to the shipping company duly signed by me. There is some defect in microphone also of the dictaphone. What is to be done. The dictaphone seller does not appear to be very honest. When I enquired they told that it should be taken to some local deal- ers and when it is repaired they say that they are not going to pay for the labour. So if there is any defect, has it to be sent to New York at their expense? You can send the sets of Bhagavatam keeping there two sets only. And the sets which you have already sold, proceeds may be deposited in my account. Mr. Al- tman has not got to be paid this month be- cause as soon as I hear from you that you have transferred the amount to my ac- count I shall send $200.00 to India for purchase of harmonium. My dear Rayrama, I am in due receipt of your long letter. I do not know why Back to Godhead is not printed timely. If it is printed send here the necessary copies. I do not know who said that Back to Godhead is to be printed here. Unless there is written order by me Back to Godhead should regularly be printed from New York. There is no ques- tion of its being printed here. So go on printing it right time. You can send the copies here with bill and I shall see that it is duly paid. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-10 San Francisco 23rd February, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope this time youhave received the goods from In- dia Jaladuta in good condition. Out of the goods, you keep one Mri- danga and six pairs of cymbals there at New York and all the balance goods in- cluding all the papers or letters therein may be sent here at once. They are arrang- ing kirtan programme at different places and I think the Mridanga and cymbals will increase the dignity of kirtan. For the Mridangas, I personally paid to India. So later as we shall see what is the actual expenditure. Ranchore has given a packing instruc- tion. Please see that the packing is nicely done as instructed and as illustration is given there. Hope you are all well and with my blessings for all! Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Yesterday I have sent 3 tapes. Ask Satsvarupa to do the needful. FEBRUARY, 1967 135 San Francisco 24th February, 1967 67-2-11 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept blessings. Hope you are all doing well. I have not as yet received from you the reply of my letter in which I suggested to negotiate with Mr. Taylor on hire-purchase-scheme which is equally good for Mr.Taylor as well as ourselves. In the meantime I have received one letter from Kirtananda asking for $200.00 for Montreal and has also suggested as fol- lows: “Secondly I recommend that you re- turn to N.Y. for the showing of the C.B.S. program. I recall Mr. Gerard stressing on me the importance of your presence in N.Y. for the two or three weeks following the program. This is because so many people will be visiting the temple and wishing to see you. Even if you should de- sire to return to S.F. after two or three weeks, the $300.00 involved in flying is nothing compared to the millions in pub- licity value we are getting on the TV. I know N.Y. would be more willing to spend the money if need be.” So if you think that my presence will be necessary as suggested by Kirtanananda then immediately book my seat in the air ‘line when you want me to go there. I shall then cancel all programs here for three weeks. If need be you can talk with me on the phone. Kirtananda has also highly recommended your combined manage- ment at N.Y. He writes in this connection as follows: “I know you will be pleased to know that the N.Y. center is really doing well; in fact, I believe they are really stronger Now than ever before.” I am very glad to learn this and I am very much encouraged to know it. It is all Krishna’s mercy. I have decided to contribute to the Montreal center $100.00 from each cen- ter namely New York and San Francisco. My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. To day I have sent you the first instalment of “Narada BhaktiSutras”. Please let me know how do you like it or if there is any difficulty to understand it. On hearing from you I shall take up the next instal- ment. Here there is no typewriter nor any typist. Neal has not come here. I do not know where he is. Therefore you have to type the tapes there is no other alternative. Howard does not wish to work on the tapes. Today I have got a letter from him (Neal) from somewhere in Calfornia but there is no address. My dear Gargamuni, I hope you have duly received my former letter. I have asked the Bank to for- ward $100.00 to Montreal from my ac- count knowing that you may not have sufficient money in the society’s account. Have you transferred the amount to my ac- count. Iam very much anxious to know if the goods from India Mridanga etc have been already received by you. Please let me know as soon as you receive them. Hope you are all well. With my blessings. My dear Rayrama, I am in due receipt of your letter. Ac- cording to our agreement Mr. Ypslantin cannot ask any more. It was understood that further money will be required when the bill is actually in the congress session for consideration. We have already paid him three hundred dollars which was full for dealings in the preliminary stage. Any way I have a call from Naturalisa- tion office to see them on 2nd March. And I shall let you know what is to be done thereafter. Or in the meantime if I return to N.Y. I shall let you know what is to be done. Have you taken delivery of the Ist chapter Bhagavad Gita from the publisher with whom you left it for examination? 136 Letters from Srila Prabhupada You have not informed me about this. Please take care of this. Here everything is going well. We have got some engage- ments up to Tuesday next week. Kritanan- nanda is trying to start a third center of the Society at Montreal. It is all Krishna’s Grace. I have received the copy of Back to Godhead. Your well wisher. A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-12 San Francisco 25th February, 1967 My Dear Brahmananda, Ihave sent you three four letter consec- utively but I have received no reply. Please reply those letter as well as let me know if my presence is required in N.Y. on account C.B.S. show. Also let me know whether you have received the con- signment from India. Besides the above please immediately on receipt of this letter despatch per Air Mail special delivery the following litera- tures: Allsorts of press cuttings 5 copies each (New York Times, East Village Voice with my pictures) My picture with Photo of Prime Min- ister Shastri Bhagavatam colored Radhakrishna Pictures The letter of appreciation by the Mayor (which Garga Muni used for the Cart li- cense) or any other things that are used for our propaganda. I require this immedi- ately for presenting to the Naturalisation and Immigration office here where I have to be present on the 2nd March 1967. After this I shall be free for three weeks and if required I can have a trip for New York which I have already informed you in my letter of yesterday. I hope you will receive this letter on Monday next and if you post the above articles immedi- ately by air mail special delivery, I must get them latest the 1st of March and for which I shall thank you very much. Hope you are all well and with my blessings Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-2-13 San Francisco 28th February, 1967 My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings and offer the same to all your Godbrothers for your doing the respective duties nicely. I am in due receipt of the copy of Back to God- head dated 15th February 1967 and I am glad that it is nicely done. The only defect is that picture which is wrongly put there without asking me. There was no need of interpretatios and why you have inter- preted the picture as one has to be naked before the Lord to become perfect(?). We have no interpretation in any one of the verses in the Gita and Srimad Bhagvatam. They were not ficticious and therefore there is no need of interpretation. Krishna actually took away the dresses of the Go- pis and actually He saw the girls naked. There is no interpretation there. The girls of Vrindaban of the same age like Krishna wanted Krishna as their husband. In India the girls are married earlier by ten years at least and thus the girls who were of the same age were married although they wished Krishna as their hus-band. Krishna fulfilled their wishes by this pas- times. No body can ask any woman or girl to become naked except the husband. That is the moral etiquette of Vedic culture. Krishna is actually husband of every woman. There was no necessity of formal marriage. But still Krishna played like husband by asking them to become naked. In the spiritual world there is no cohabitation; simply by such emotion in FEBRUARY, 1967 137 transcendental ecstacy the desire is fulfilled. These pictures of Krishna and the Go- pis are not understandable by a layman who has no idea of Krishna. Therefore, this picture was wrongly put without ask- ing me. Please, therefore, consult me before putting any such picture or inter- pretations. One must understand first Krishna from the Bhagawatam by reading the first nine chapters. Ohterwise Krishna would be taken as ordinary man and His pastimes will be wrongly understood. Be- sides that a Brahmachary should not see any kind of naked picture. That is viola- tion of Brahmachary law. I am asking you therefore not to put the picture in the issue of Back to Godhead. I have asked here not to put this picture and so also I am asking you. I think all the pic- tures are not yet stapled and therefore it must not be put in there. Last night we had very nice function at Stanford University. More than three hun- dred students gathered and all of them sang and danced with our Kirtan for full one hour. There was lecture for 15 to 20 minutes questions and answers about 25 minutes and the balance for Kirtan. So al- together there was two hours program and it was very successful. On Sunday afternoon there was Kirtan in the Golden Gate Park and there was about 3 to 4 hundred audience and most of them danced in ecstacy. It reminded me of our activities in the Tompkinson Park. I have asked them to arrange for loud speakers and microphones so that next week we may have greater audience to join us. It appears to me that people of this country will accept this movement nicely if we do it in accordance with prescribed directions. When we receive the Mri- dangas we shall have better chance to per- form the Kirtan more nicely. Please try to send the Mridanga and cymbals as early as possible as I have al- ready instructed. Hope you are all well, Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami MARCH 67-3-1 San Francisco His Grace Sripada Ramananda Bhaktisindhu Gaudiya Sangha (Regd) 23 Doctor Lane, Calcutta-14 India. My dear Sripad Ramananda Prabhu, Kindly accept my humble dandabats. I am in due receipt of your kind letter dated March 3, 1967. I can understand your dif- ficulty for the work I wanted to entrust upon you. But I shall be much pleased if you kindly introduce to me some good presses whoc an take up the work. To print my books in U.S.A. is five to tenti- mes more expensive than in India. I there- fore want to get the books printed in a first class press in India. So if you can send me some names of first class press it will be very kind of you. I am enclosing herewith one letter for Sripada Sar Maharaj which will speak for itself. The certificate is urgently required per return of post. The thing is that I have to go to Canada Montreal next month to open the third Branch there. But as soon as I leave the borders of U.S.A., my Visa for this country will automatically can- celled. Then I will have ask for new Visa to enter U.S.A. which may be delayed for formalities. I am therefore trying for per- manent visa and for that purpose the cer- tificate is necessary. I have also written to other Godbrother Sannyasins because such certificate is necessary. If Sripada Sar Maharaj is not in the sta- tion or if there is no chance of meeting him immediately, then I shall request you to send me certificate in your official form and signed by you as Secretary. I hope you will treat this as urgent and oblige. Hope you are well. Yours affectionately, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-3-2 San Francisco 4th March, 1967 Sriman Brahmananda Brahmachary, Sriman Satsvarupa Brahmachary, Sriman Rayrama Brahmachary, Sriman Gargamuni Brahmachary, and other Trustees of the International Society For Krishna Consciousness Inc 26 Second Avenue, New York N. Y. 10003 My dear boys, Please immediately hold one meeting of the Trustees of International Society For Krishna Consciousness Inc and re- solve whether $5000.00 dollars should immediately be paid to the seller of the house under agreement and as advised by the appointed Lawyer Mr. Seymour Her- zog. In my opinion the check should never be drawn in favour of the financier. But it should be drawn in the name of original seller Mr. Taylor. If the Financier pays to Mr. Taylor the purchase money it is then only the above $5000.00 should be money paid on behalf of the Financier and the Financier should enter into agreement with you acknowledging receipt of the ammount with definite date or imme- diate possession of the house. In all 140 Letters from Srila Prabhupada circustances the check may not be drawn in favour of the financier. The check should be signed by the President and the Secretary because Brahmananda and Satsvarupa are the main support for pur- chasing the house and Kirtanananda is supplement to this from his kitchen de- partment. The money and society is your. You can spend in any way but it is my duty to give you guidance as ever well wisher. You should send me a copy of the resolu- tion you will make in this connection in the meeting of the Trustees. Please note that I have already advised the Bank to transfer $5000.00 in the account of the Society and have sent them the Pass Book as desired by Brahmananda. Pray to Krishna for your successful transaction and I hope when I go to New York next I shall enter the new house forthwith. Please send me a copy of the agreement entered. With my blessings, I am yours Ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. Note to Satsvarupa. My dear Satsvarupa In your previous letter you informed me that you are not going to pay a farthing unless you are in possession of the house. So you must follow the determination. You should not sign the check if you are not satisfied yourself. ACB 67-3-3 San Francisco 7th March, 1967 My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 3rd instant and noted the contents carefully. Gita Press is full of Mayavada Philoso- phy which says Krishna has no form but He assumes a form for facility of devo- tional service. This is nonsense. I am just trying to wipe out this Mayavada philoso- phy and you may not therefore order for any more copy of the English Bhagavatam published by the Gita Press. The one which you have got may be kept only for reference on having an understanding of the Mayavada Philosophy which is very dangerous for ordinary person The Mayavada Philosophy has played havoc in spiritual understanding leading to Aetheistic tendency. The interpretation that one has to be naked before the Lord is also mayavada philosophy The pictures which Dan might have brought in the tem- ple are certainly unauthorised. In furture before publishing any picture you must consult me. Any stage of life in Krishna consciousness may be a victim of strong material energy. Therefore we have al- ways to take care and strictly follow the rules and regulations. You are a good boy and sincere devotee and I hope you will understand me right. I am glad that you are getting some nice job. They have tried for so many days and still the experiment is going on. Any way if by the Grace of Lord you can help the Society it will be a great help. You are taking a great responsibility in the matter of purchasing the house. It is very good to take all risks for Krishna but for our per- sonal satisfsction we should not take the least risk. I am very glad to learn that Brahmananda, Yourself and all others have the transcendental courage to take all risks for Krishna and this act will enhance your glory in Krishna consciousness. So far my going back to New York I have already sent you a letter that I shall start from this place ater 6th April 1967 In California the scope of Krishna con- sciousness is gradually taking some solid ground. Formerly when you were here the audience was hearing sitting but now a days all of them stand up and dance. In Stanford University although the demon- stration was first introduced still they took MARCH, 1967 141 ES SS itas hypnotic chant. Many Yoga societies here feeling the strength of our move- ment. Yours ever wellwisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Please send me the copy of resolu- tion you made in connection with pur- chasing house as also the copy of agreement made in this connection. I hope next time when go to New York, I shall [TEXT MISSING] in the new house 67-3-4 11th March, 1967 My dear Sripada Sar Maharaj, Please accept my humble obeisances at your lotus feet. I am in receipt of your letter dated February 20,1967. I am so much thankful to you all for encouraging me in my humble attempt to preach the message of srila Prabhupada in this part of the world. I am sure to be successful if I am blessed by you all Vaisnavas. I can understand your difficulty in the matter of my publication work. I am glad to learn that your activities following the foot prints of our beloved Gosvami Ma- haraj is being conducted nicely. By the by I may inform you that in the matter of permanent Visa in this country I require some certificates from India. Will you kindly send me a certificate in your personal form of letter as the President and Acharya of the Gaudiya Sangha (Regd) in the following words and oblige. Wordings of the certificate: “This is to certify that His Holiness Tridandi Swami A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ji Maharaj is a bonafide disciple of my Spiritual Master On Visnupada Sri Srimad Bhaktisid- dhanta Goswami Prabhupada We have highly appreciated his publication Srimad Bhagavatam in our Sajjan Toshani Patrika (Monthly Magazine) in June 1963. Swami A.C.Bhaktivedanta was the Editor of the above magazine while the paper was started from Delhi. Subsequently he has accepted the renounced order of life (Sannyasam) from His Holiness Sri Sri- mad Bhakti Prajnan Keshav Maharaj the Founder President of the Gaudiya Vedanta Samity in 1959. He is therefore bonafide Preacher in the line of disciplic succes- sion from Lord Chaitanya Who preached the cult of Krishna Consciousness in India about 481 years ago. We all godbrothers of Swami A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami in India are very much pleased to learn that he is executing the mission of our Spiri- tual Master in the Western countries even in his good oldage. We wish all success for him in his great and noble attempt. (Bhakti Saurabh Bhaktisar Maharaj) President & Acharya. Kindly send this certificate by return of post and oblige. Thanking you in anticipa- tion. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-3-5 San Francisco 14th March, 1967 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my thanks and blessings of Lord Krishna for your letter of the 12th instant describing your meeting with a Maya the illusory energy and combating her by Krishna consciousness. In future if any one challenges our philosophy one may put his questions in writing and must be prepared to receive the answers from human understanding. We cannot talk with any one who is not within the pur- view of human understanding. You are completely right when you refuse to de- bate and accept invitation for chanting Hare Krishna Mahamantra. Although we 142 Letters from Srila Prabhupada should not chant in a society which is dis- ruptive but as soon as one invites us for chanting we take it for granted that they are friendly and we must take the opportu- nity. A female is never awarded the order of Sannyasam. Because a female is never considered independent and Sannyasam was never awarded to any female in the past by the great Acharyas like Samkara, Ramanu ja etc. The female Sannyasins are to be immediately understood as pre- tenders or prostitutes. In India they have organised so many organisations where specially young females are maintained to attract rich women-hunters who pretend to pose as righteous in the society. This is the age of Kali which plunders away spiri- tual sense of the human being and it is only the Divine Grace of Lord Chaitanya Who can protect us from all these danger- ous pitfalls. You were not agitated by unfa- vourable criticism and yet you chanted Hare Krishna Mahamantra that is the way of chanting Hare Krishna. I thank you very much for this for-bearance. I am very glad to note that you can know the foolishness of the modern society in spiri- tual understanding and I thank you very much for your appreciation of my associa- tion. This association is disciplic and as such all thanks are due to Lord Krishna Who infuses His powers through the bonafide disciplic succession. But I am very sorry to learn that Mr. Taylor is still playing in his own way. I do not know why. If the financier is paying him all cash what is the cause of delay. We have already handed over the amount $5000.00 and if thngs are still lingered in such a way it becomes really disturbing. I shall be glad to hear from you how things are taking place. In your last letter I was given to understand that while signing the agreement Mr. Taylor was not present. This was something like marriage perfor- mances without the bridegroom. In your last letter you informed me that you are going take possession of the house imme- diately. I hope you are going to do so and I may inform you that the possession must be taken on or before the 26th March 1967 because that is the day of Lord Chaitanya’s birth day. You shall observe Lord Chaita- nya’s birth day as follows: 1. The picture of Lord Chaitanya with His party should be nicely decorated with flowers and garlands and Samkirtan should be performed regularly from Morning to evning. Just after seeing the Full Moon on the sky the days fast should be broken. I mean the devotees should ob- serve fasting the whole day. In the evening the devotees should take food as in the Ekadasi days. 2. The next day you can celebrate feas- ing on account of Lord Chaitany’s appear- ance and read about His life as given shortly in my Srimad Bhagwatam and you can read also from the teachings of Lord Chaitanya part of which is going to be published in the present issue of Back to Godhead. If the psycholdelic men want to sell our Vishnu pictures you can charge them at least $50.00 for each picture. For display you lend them one only returnable on de- mand. We require many pictures as painted by Jadurani for decorating the lecture-hall in the new building. You will be glad to learn that here also we have got another Jadurani whose name is Govinda Dasi wife of Gour Sunder. Both the hus- band and the wife are good artist and they have printed a very nice picture of Radha Krishna. I am glad to learn that Donald has purchased Prof. Sanyal’s book Krishna Chaitanya. Late Prof. N. K. Sanyal was my Godbrother and his book Krishna Chaitanya is approved and authoritative. Keep it very carefully and we may publish in Back to Godhead some articles from the book. It will help us a great deal MARCH, 1967 143 because my Spiritual Master has given His approval to this book. * Please keep it carefully and when I return I shall see to it. I shall be glad to hear from you when you are going to take possession of the house. Inform all friends there that I wish that we may enter the house on or before the 26th March 1967. You have done right by removing the pictures which deal in Gopis and Krishna. They are never for public show. They are very confidential and meant for advanced devotees who know Krishna fairly well. The neophytes will be misguided by such pictures. I hope you will understand me right. With my blessings for you all. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *The picture of my Spiritual Master in the book may be painted in colour by Ja- durani: this will be another type of picture of my Spiritual Master. 67-3-6 San Francisco 15th March, 1967 My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings and offer the same to all the devotees there. I hope by this time you must have received an- other $100.00 from new york which was delayed on account of the Pass Book. The Bank has however sent me the debit note for this $100.00. I am anxious to know what you have done about editing my lec- tures. Have you done something or not. I shall be glad to hear from you in this con- nection. I was indisposed for four days on account sudden attack of cold. Now I am well. Please send me a weekly report for all the work that you are doing there. I un- derstand that Jadurani is there and she is doing well. I am sending herewith a work for her. Iam returning to New York by the 9th April 1967. My dear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter. You have asked me soemthing for which it is difficult to answer from such a distant place. You are grown up girl you should rather decide what to do. Fix up your mind always in Krishna and He will give you good coun- sel. I am sending herrwith two pictures. I wish that you may enlarge one of them in painting. I like both the pictures but as an artist you can make your choice. I prefer the picture which contains all the body of Krishna on my right side. Any way one of the pictures may be painted in three so that each branch may have one picture. I shall be glad to know how many pic- tures you have completed by this time. Hope you are all well by the Grace of Lord Krishna. My dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I am glad to learn that your good wife is now days taking interest in Krishna Consciousness. Please offer her my blessings. I think a good and sincere husband’s influence is working in her. Be happy in family life and both of you become blessed by Krishna consciousness. What about my books. Yours ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure:2 67-3-7 San Francisco 16th March, 1967 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I have seen the typed copies of Narada Bhakti Sutra as well as Teachings of Lord Chaita- nya. Both of them are nicely made. I think let us finish first Teachings of Lord Chaitanya and then we take again Narada 144 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Bhakti Sutra. The subject matter dis- cussed with Narada Bhakti Sutras is al- ready there in the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. I have sent you matter for the Second part of the Teachings and please go on sending me one copy of your type- written matter. I shall be glad to hear from you. My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am pleased to learn that you are conducting classes very nicely and Krishna is supply- ing you inteeligence to answer some criti- cal questions by the audience. It is very good news. The more one can meet oppo- site elements successfully the more one is supposed to be advanced in Krishna con- sciousness. To a sincere heart Krishna gives all intelligence to combat such dia- logues. Be sincere servant of Krishna and Krishna gives you everything. By the Grace of Krishna you are now engaged in some good work. Do it sincerely and help the organization to your best. Now coming to the question of Geeto- panisad, I am sorry that the book is not yet ready for printing although I have finished the book I want to get it immediately printed either there in U.S.A. or in India but the editing is not yet finished. How- ards wants to do it but he hass no time to finsih it or to type it . You are also engaged in various ways and I do not know how to make it ready. Both you and Howard want to edit it but no body takes charge to finish the job quickly say within a month. The matter is already thre simply it awaits the finishing touch. I want to print also the Teachings of lord Chaitanya. We must publish our books as much as possible be- cause that will create our position. Back to Godhead should be the life and soul for the Society. Please let me know your pro- gram. Have you taken back the First Chapter of Geetopanisad from the pub- lisher whom you delivered? I have asked you several times about this but I have re- ceived no reply from you. Please take it back. 67-3-8 San Francisco 18th March, 1967 My dear Nripen Babu, Please accept my humble dandabats and blessings of Sri Sri Radha Damodar Thakur Jew. I am in due receipt of your kind letter of March 11, 1967 and have noted the contents very carefully. I am very sorry to learn that things in the Tem- ple Srila Jiva Goswami has deteriorated so much. Please therefore immediately go to Vrindaban and make things alright. Stay in the temple for sometime as co-sevait and do things as already planned by you. I am very much surprised to note that indul- gence in liquor within the temple is going on. Of course I had personal experience that indulgence in Ganja was freely going on and now it has deteriorated to the ut- most degree. Please do the needful imme- diately otherwise things will deteriorate to many more things. I think Governor Biswanath Das is already aware of the condition of the temple. Many people at Vrindaban has complained against the Goswin of Radha Damodar Temple and consequently the Governor withdrew his promise to pay yearly Rs500/- for Kirtan in the Temple on Janmastami day. He publicly promised this in the temple while meeting was going on Janmastamiday or- ganised by me. Unfortunately a demon- stration was made by one woman who made a great show by crying that Panchu has cheated her by Rs800/-. This show of the woman and subsequent adverse letters by other envious persons marred the whole project. Since then I could under- stand that no improvement in the Radha Damodar Temple can be made under such condition. The cheating of Panchu MARCH, 1967 145 by 800/ rupees was subsequently con- firmed before me by one woman disciple of Gorachand Gosain. I remained silent and this the first time I am disclosing the fact before you. Any way please try to save temple of Jiva Goswami because in very near future many people all parts of the world will come to see the Temple and Samadhi of Jiva Goswami and Rupa Goswami. If you get court permission to sell the land there will be no objection for purchasing — so far I know that your maternal uncle and causin brother arealso in the temple. Sunderlalla son (the Vakil at Ma- thura) told me like that when negotiation was going on for lease. But I think if court sanction is obtained it will be quite al- right. As far as possible do not get into litiga- tion with your causin Gorachand but try to settle things by your presence. Your pres- ence in the temple is essential to establish your claim. In your absence some body as your representative must remain there. It is essential. And you can publish in the paper that no transaction will be valid without your signature as copartner. You have sought my advice and I beg to submit humbly that you must stay in the temple for some time till things are not out of order. If you feel inconvenient to stay with Gorachand Gosain, you can stay in my rooms but I think you should remain in the rooms set aside for your staying. You must keep your claim intact. As you are going to restore order in the temple I am always with you because Srila Jiva Go- swami’s temple is my heart and soul. I think with your cooperation I shall be able to render some genuine service to the Goswamins Who are staying in the tem- ple. I shall be glad to hear from you now and then specially when you reach Vrin- daban during the Holi festivals. My American students are all glad to have your good blessings for them. If Radha Damodar desires many Americans will go to see the holy place of Jiva Goswami in the very near future. I am just trying to [TEXT MISSING] Last time when I was in Vrindaban, you know how much attractive and pure Sankirtan was performed by my disciples. To arrange for 50 men’s prasadam nowa- days means daily expenditure not less than Rs 100/= daily or Rs. 3000/= per month. I do not wish to disturb the position of the sevaits of Radha Damodar Temple, but simply if I am given the facility to live there with my disciples, it will be my plea- sure to serve Their Lordships Sr Sri Radha Damodar to my best capacity. Now it is up to you all sevaits to decide on this fact. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami cc. Nripendra Nath Banerjee Nathuram Goswami 67-3-9 San Francisco 21st March, 1967 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. Regarding your question about the inhabitants of Brajabhumi or Vrindaban it is to be un- derstood that Vrindaban is the original abode of Lord Krishna as He is the origi- nal Personality of Godhead. In that tran- scendental plane He has His trans- cendental associates in different exchange of humour. For ourselves when we are in perfect stage of devotional service, we can know our eternal relation with Krishna and as such one of the associates of Lord Krishna becomes our ideal leader. This acceptance of leadership by one of the eternal associates of the Lord is not artifi- cial. Do not therefore try it at present it will be automatically revealed to you in proper time. 146 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Regarding the house, you are already in trouble. The best thing is to stop this strain. Mr. Lerner told me that Mr. Hill has no sufficient money to purchase the house. I definitely instructed you if Mr. Hill enterns into agreement with Mr. Tay- lor it is then only you could hand over the check of $5000.00 to Mr. Hill or his agent. But you have not followed my in- struction and now you are in trouble. If Mr. Hill has no money to purchase the house then his accepting our check is clear case of cheating. So immediately en- quire if Mr.Hill has at all money to pur- chase cash from Mr. Taylor. If not immediately demand back the check oth- erwise consult our good lawyers and file a cheating case. We cannot forego this cheating conspiracy, if Mr. Hill has no money. He must either deliver the posses- sion of the house immediately or must re- turn the money immediately or file cheating case against all the combined group namely Mr. Payne, Mr. Hill and Mr. Palmer. I do not know what is actual case but from the telephonic conversation of Brahmananda it appears to be an or- ganised cheating case and you have to face with courage without excusing any one of them. We are not revengeful but we can- not lose Krishna’s money for nothing. Brahmananda has asked me whether San Francisco Branch will pay some money for purchasing the house. But where is your house and where is the pur- chase? So far it is talks of Mr. Payne and company in which you innocent boys have been entrapped. I do not know how I can help in great blunder. I can only hope that Krishna will help you. Howard wants one of the Mimeograph machine here so that copies of Back to Godhead required here may be printed here. What is the weight of the machine and what will be cost of transport charges. I think you can spare one machine for San Francisco and charge cost of it. Please ask Rayrama to get back the first chapter of Geetopanisad from the publisher. I have asked this several times but there is no reply. I shall be glad to hear from you about all the points mentioned therein. Ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-3-10 San Francisco 25th March, 1967 My dear Sri Krishnaji, Please accept my greetings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 16th March 1967 and with great difficulty I could guess only 75% of the hindi writ- ing. There is no body here who can read Hindi. Any way I have got the summary of the letter and the immediate issue is that the room must be cleansed and I may in- form you that as soon as I return to New York on the 9th April 1967 evening, I shall arrange to send the key for opening the room at least for cleansing. The key is in New York otherwise I would have sent it immediately; sent it from here. But rest assured that the room will be opened and cleansed or vacated by the end of April 1967. Please do not be anxious. My reser- vation by the United Air Line is already booked on the 9th April and I am return- ing there. Regarding publication of my books, you know that since I have come here the work is stopped and that is great loss for me. My primary duty is to publish the Sri- mad Bhagavatam and finish it in my life. But preaching in the western countries is also my duty as it was ordered by my Spiritual Master. I thought that I shall be able to publish my books from America but it is very much expensive: therefore I have to get books published from India at any cost. Sriman Surya Kumar Joshi B.A. MARCH, 1967 147 in charge of the publication department All India Congress Committee No. 7 Jan- tar Mantar Road New Delhi has very kindly agreed to take the burden of proof reading and if you also join with him to help me in this connectionit will be great help for me. If you have time you can please see him and talk with him face to face how you can help me. If you both co- operate then the publication work may im- mediately be revived. Surya Kumar Joshi is expert in proof reading and as such if he and you cooperate there will be no diffi- culty. Regarding Seva Pujah of the temple I have already written to Sripad Narayan Maharaj if he would come to Delhi and live in the temple. If he comes he will re- lieve you from the seva pu jah of the temple and he will do it nicely. Regarding cooperation in the matter of preaching work in the western countries it is the duty of every Indian and Hindu to cooperate in this task. There are so many Sanatan Dharma establishment in India but no body has tried to preach the princi- ples of Bhagavad Gita in the Western countries although Bhagavad Gita is widely read all over the world. Swami like Vivekananda or others who came here be- fore me. manufactured their own ideolog- ical religion and that is not in conformity of the Bhagavad Gita. The straight way of Bhagavad Gita is that Lord Sri Krishna is the Original Personality of Godhead and He is the only worshipable object for all humanity. ‘‘Mattah nanyat parataram kimchid asti dhananjaya”’. There is noth- ing superior Truth than Sri Krishna is the Gospel of all Vedic instruction. I am try- ing to implement this truth in this part of the world and it is the duty of the Hindus and Indians to help me in all respects. As far as possible try to help me in this mission at least in the publication of my books from India and if possible meet Sri- man Joshi with this letter and talk with him. Let me know know your joint deci- sion and that will help me much. If you re- ply this letter after 31st March 1967 then you may reply this letter to my New York address namely 26 Second Avenue New York N.Y. 10003. I am glad to learn that Srimat Bahuji and other members of your family are all doing well by the Grace of the Lord and I wish that you be happy in your execution of Harbhakti in which Lord Rama has al- ready engaged you. Yours affectionately, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Your friend who wants to come here + stay may directly send me letter about his expenditure for coming here. He may also let me know why does he want to come here & what is his qualification. Then I shall see here. I can help him in the matter of his stay in this country. ACB 67-3-11 San Francisco 28th March, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, With reference to your letter of the 24th March 1967, I beg to request you to see in the Bnak as to who has taken pay- ment of the check. Any one either Mr. Hill or any one else who has taken the pay- ment must be sued along with Payne. In whose favour did you sign the check? I think you signed the check in favour of Mr. Hill because he is supposed to be the financier and who else can take payment of the check except Mr. Hill. If you expect that Payne is coming with $20000.00 second mortgage money then we shall not lag behind. We are prepared to pay the balance $5000.00 and other fees at any cost. If you lag behind to pay the balance money certainly you are not eligible to get back the money. So we shall 148 Letters from Srila Prabhupada not lag behind. If we are actually getting possession of the house, then I take the re- sponsibility to pay the balance money rest assured. But I do not know what is the agreement you have entered into. Payment of the next instalment of $5000.00 dollar is not the issue: the issue is that Mr. Payne has made a false transac- tion and Mr. Hill is his accomplice to take the money under the plea of being the fin- ancier to purchase the house. I am not a Lawyer but this is common sense affair. Mr. Hill has taken the money and he must finance to purchase the house. If he has no money to finance then it is a cheating case clear and simple. Mr. Lerner said that he has no money, therefore, he must be sued along with Payne. But if he is able to fi- nance as per agreement we are also prea- pred to pay the balance money. So if Payne comes with the money, I take the responsi- bility of paying the balance $5000.00. The scheme of Mr. Herzog to serve notice to Mr. Taylor will clear up the case. So to serve the notice of action to Mr. Taylor is very good. So far $750 paid to Mr. Payne his firm should be given all pressure even up to the court. My point of view is that provided we are getting possession of the house we shall not lag behind in the matter of all stipulated payments. If we lag behind we are not going to get back the money $5000.00. We want the house and we are ready to pay all with all hardship on our part but if it is a maneuver on the part of Mr. Payne and His accomplice Mr. Hill they must be brought to the criminal court for proper punishment. If however we get the money back without a farthing less, we are not going to take any step even though we can do so legally. In such critical points how you can leave New York. Suppose Mr. Payne se- cures the second mortgage money by the 31st March and you are absent who will look after the transaction. We must get into the possession of the house for Krishna’s Temple or we must get back the money for Krishna’s service. And we are prepared to fulfil the terms of the agree- ment. On the birthday of Lord Chaitanya we have installed the deity Jaganath (in three) in the temple of the San Francisco Branch and the celebration of feasting was nice last night. Peopleare taking interest in the temple and they are attending meetings aregularly. I think similarly Jagannath should immediately be installed in New York. If some of you who may know car- pentary work can engrave such deity, as Shyamsunder has done here, I can give you the model. If not I shall ask Shyam- sunder to curve one set for you. I donot know if you are going to change the present pleace as it was indicated in the letter of Satsvarupa. At last also i may say that you can for- get the great loss. Do work sincerely in Krishna Consciousness abiding by the or- der of Krishna and everything will be in order. Yours ever well-wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami San Francisco 28th March, 1967 67-3-12 My dear Brahmananda, Satsvarupa, Rayram. Gargamuni, Rupanuga, Donald, Pllease accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of the 24th March 1967 and previous to this I received one copy of the letter addressed to M/s. Willium Al- fred White Inc. I have replied Mr. Gold- smith’s letter also giving him the whole history of the cheating business. It is un- derstood that Mr. Goldsmith says the hope of getting back the money is very slim. Under the circumstances there is no need of pushing good money for the bad. MARCH, 1967 149 $6000.00 has already become bad money and therefore no more good money should be spent after this. Forget the chapter. Take it for granted that Krishna has taken away this money from you for your delib- erate foolishness. In future be very cau- tious and abide by the orders of Krishna. If you abide by the orders of Krishna, He can give you thing that you may need. Be cheerful and chant Hare Krishna without any lamentation. As I have told you sev- eral times that my Gurumaharaj used to say that this world is not a fit place for gen- tleman. His version is corroborated by the following verse of Srimad Bhagavatam. It is said like: Yasya asti bhagavati akimchana bhakti Sarvai gunais tatra samasate sura. Harau abhaktasya kuto mahat guna Manorathen asto dhavato bahi. “A person who is not in Krishna con- sciousness has no good qualifications. However so called gentleman one may be or academically educated he may be he is hovering over the mental plain and there- fore he must commit nuisance being influ- enced by the external energy. A person who has however unflinching faith in the Supreme Personality of Godhead has all the good qualifications of the demigods.” In other words you should not keep your trust on so called gentlemen of the world however nicely dressed he may be. In the matter of discharging our mission of Krishna consciousness we have to meet so many so called gentlemen but we must be very cautious for dealing with them as we are cautious in dealing with serpents. Ihave taken quotation from good print- ing houses in San Francisco for Geeto- panishad and it is estimated to cost about $11000.00 for five thausand copies case bound and golden title. I will have $5000.00 from here and shall be glad to know how much you can contribute so that I can take up the work. I wish that you may contribute the balance either by sell- ing my books (Srimad Bhagavatam) or by raising funds. [PAGE MISSING] 67-3-13 San Francisco 30th March, 1967 My dear Rayrama Mydear Satsvarupa, I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letters with enclosures. Thank you very much and accept my blessings. Regarding the house and the money which you have foolishly mishandled, I can give you still good consel as follows: I do not know what is the agreement you have entered into and paid the check for $5000.00 but I can guess it that the agreement is drawn on the understanding that Mr. Hill is the financier who is going to purchase the house on our behalf from Mr. Taylor and the check is received by Mr. Hill as earnest money with provision that further $5000.00 shal be paid by 31st March 1967. Mr. Payne knew it very well that you have not got further $5000.00 to pay by the 31st March and he thought that on your failure to pay further $5000.00 dollar the first $5000.00 dollars can be usurped by the gang. But actually this Mr. Hill has no suffi- cient money to pay Mr. Taylor. Mr. Tay- lor may know this fact and therefore he was not present when you all foolish boys assisted by similar lawyers signed the agreement without the presence of Mr. Taylor. I repeatedly warned you even at the last point that we should not pay the check unless there was agreement be- tween Mr. Taylor and Hill. The agree- ment was signed like marriage ceremony without the presence of the bridegroom. The mistake was there and now you are re- penting. Any way if on the 31st March Mr. Hill 150 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and his accomplice comes forward with second Mortgage money $20,000.00 and demands the second instalment of $5000.00, do not lag behind. In case the house is actually being purchased by Mr. Hill from Mr. Taylor and if there is genu- ine transaction between the parties, we are prepared to pay the balance $5000.00 immediately. But I know this Mr. Hill has no money, as Mr.Lerner told me, to pur- chase the house on our behalf. It appears a bogus representation of Mr. Payne. Therefore itis a clear case of cheating and therefore all of them must be punished in the criminal Law court at any rate. I asked you to send me the copy of the agreement but you have not sent it. Otherwise I would have been able to give you clear di- rections. And yetI give you some sugges- tions as abovementioned and I do not know how you would tackle. If it can be proved that Hill has no money to purchase the house then it is clear cheating case ar- ranged by Mr. Payne. So on the 31st March challenge them whether they have entered into agreement with Mr. Taylor or whether they have actually paid our money to Taylor. If it is a fact that he (Mr. Hill) has paid the $5000.00 to Mr. Taylor and if actually we are going to have the house, do not lag behind, we are prepared to pay the balance within a fortnight rest assured. I do not know why the Lawyers are not serious about this cheating case. If Mr. Hill has no money and on pretention of purchasing the house on our behalf he has accepted the money, then it is a clear case of cheating and Payne is the organi- ser of this cheating maneuver. And if this is genuine case that the house is actually going to be purchased we are prepared to pay the balance $5000.00. Let us have the house or return back the money. In default there is clear case of cheating as far as I can guess. Now you can do as you like. English translation of Cahitanya Charitamrita by Nogen Roy have been seen by me. There is no commentary and therefore it can be read. But I do not know who is this Sanjib Choudhuri. Any way there is no harm reading simply the trans- lation. Regarding the Mimiograph machine if it is very expensive to send do not send it. Rayrama, you took some quotation for printing the book Geetopanishad in U.S.A. If you therefore take immediately quotations from several places on the fol- lowing details and let me know then I can decide immediately what to do. You can take further quotations on the following details: Description: Case bound Book Quantity: 5000 five thousand copies. Size: 12 1/2 x 9 1/2 flat & 6 1/4 x 9 1/2 folded. No. of pages: 400 plus the cover. Paper: Best quality offset Book. Composition: By the printer in 10 and 12 pt and italics. Press work: Black ink two sides and one tricolor photo. Cover: Title engraved and gold stamp on backbone. Quotation: Each book. Delivery; Maximum time to be delivered partly in New York, partly in San Francisco and Partly at Montreal. Please take this quotations and let me know so that I can decide where to print the book either in New York or in San Francisco. Hope you are well. Further Garga- muni suggested that there is some chance of opening a branch in London. I shall be glad to know about the possibility. If I can establish one branch in London after Montreal it will be a great success of our mission. Please let me know in detail. Yours ever well wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami MARCH, 1967 151 67-3-14 San Francisco March 1967 My dear devotees, I am aware that you are feeling my ab- sence just as I am feeling the absence from you. But in the meantime this must be so and Krishna will provide for you as long as you keep chanting Hare Krishna. I want to see each and every one of you, so I am asking Mukunda to arrange my visits since he has volunteered to render this service. If any of you have any particular points you wish to discuss with me, please have Mukunda make an appointment with me for you. I am always at your service. If you chant always Hare Krishna, read my books, and preach this philosophy sin- cerely, then Krishna will provide you with all facility, and you will not fall down into material entanglement. Affectionately your ever well-wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami APRIL 67-4-1 San Francisco 3rd April, 1967 Mr. Richard Fulton Inc. 200 West 57th Street New York N.Y. 10019 Dear Mr. Fulton, I thank you very much for your letter of the 31st March 1967 and I have noted the contents carefully. Mr. Alan Kallman of Pixi Records is my well wisher friend and it is very kind of him that he has desired to push my cause through your valuable en- deavour. I am returning herewith the Agree- ment duly signed by me along with some papers of my activities. Amonst the pa- pers you will find one copy of literature of my Srimad Bhagavatam and if you have no objection to mail such literatures then I can send you copies as many as you may desire. Any order received through you directly or indirectly will credit your ac- count by the same commission namely 33-1/3% Thanking you once more and awaiting your early reply. I am returning to New York on the 9th April 1967 by United Air Line. Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: Signed Agreement & eight other papers. This is to certify that His Holiness Tridandi-Swami Bhakti Vedanta Swami Maharaj is a bonafide initiated disciple of His Divine Grace Sri Srimad Bhakti Sid- dhanta Saraswati Prabhupada, the Founder-Acharya of the Goudiya Math Institutions and in November 1959 he took Sannyasam (renounced order of life) from His Holiness Tridandi-Swami Bhakti Prajnan Keshav Maharaj, the Founder-President of the Goudiya Ve- danta Society. He is therefore an author- ised Preacher and Teacher in the line of disciplic succession from Lord Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, who preached Krishna Consciousness all over India about 500 years ago and authorised His all disciplic successors to preach the Philosophy of Bhagavad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam in all towns and villages of the world. It is a great pleasure for all members of the Goudiya Vaishnav Vedantists that Tridandi-Swami Bhakti Vedanta Swami Maharaj is engaged in preaching the cult in the western world. Swami B. V. Narayana 67-4-2 San Francisco 7th April, 1967 My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your affectionate letter of the 3rd instant and have noted the contents carefully. Hayagrivainformed me that you have become sorry for not receiving my letters and for this I must beg your par- don. But do not think that I neglect to write you letters. Of course I do not reply your each and every letter, I always think of you because you are all my heart and soul. I am so pleased to have your associa- tion and I always thank my Spiritual 154 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Master Om Visnupada Sri Srimad Bhakti- siddhanta Saraswati Goswami Maharaj for His favour by sending me some sincere representative of Him in missionary ac- tivities in this part of the world. I came here to execute His Will and by His Grace I have so many good souls like you, Brahmananda, Satsvarupa, Hayagriva, Rayrama, Haridas, Mukunda etc. I con- sider you all as representative of my Guru- maharaj to help me in this helpless condition. My Godbrothers did not help me but my Spiritual Master has helped me. So do not think that I can ever forget you even for a moment. I pray to Krishna for your more and more advancement of Krishna Consciousness. Be happy and ex- ecute more and more service for Krishna and Krishna will accept you in His association. I am very glad to learn that Lord Jesus Chrest has approved our activities. Per- haps you have marked it in my preaching work that I love Lord Jesus Chrest as good as Krishna; because He rendered the greatest service to Krishna according to time circumstances and society in which He appreared. Similarly Hajrat Mo- hammed and Lord Buddha also rendered greatest service to the human society ac- cording to circumstances. So work with more entuasiasism and we are sure to be successful in our great mission. Last night we had very successful meeting at Berkeley and I think there were about three hundred students who partic- pated in the meeting fortwo hours,danced with us and after the close of the meeting they surrounded me to offer their respects and some of them enquired various ques- tions. Every one appreciated what I could speak in the meeting for about forty min- utes and so I was very much encouraged. By Krishna’s planning Brahmananda’s presence at Montreal was so much help- ful. Ivery much appreciate your selection of Janardan as the President and Paul and Helena as treasurer and secretary respec- tively. May Krishna bless them and let me congratulate them for execution of Krishna’s service so nicely. You will be please to know that we have already installed the Sri Murtis of Lord Ja- gannath, Valbhadra and Subhadra in the temple of San Francisco center and I wish to establish similar temple at Montreal. Probably I shall carry with me the Deity for New York. Editing of my lectures may be a hard task for you but it will prove an examination test for you as how far you have heard me attentively. Never mind it is slow but it must be sure. You can keep a note of my activities and can wait for writ- ing book at suitable time. Iam asking Mu- kunda to send one copy of the presentation as he has made a presentation to Sriman Brahmananda. I have received letter from Brahmananda that he is going to take de- livery of the records on Thursday and he is going to send 500 records to San Fran- cisco. I do not know if he is going to send you some records. Regarding my going to Montreal it is understood that Brahmananda a has al- ready paid $150.00 to Mr. Ypslantin the Visa Lawyer to save me from my Visa be- ing cancelled. But in any case I must go to Montreal and if my Visa is not granted again to enter New York, I think I shall re- main for sometime at Montreal and then proceed for London to establish a center there. I wish that at least four centers may be established in the Western countries in- cluding one in London and then a com- pany of twelve at least of all your brothers and myself may have an extensive tour all over the world for preaching this unique cult of Hare Krishna. And because it is approved by Lord Christ at least the Christian world will accept our Kirtan procedure. I have seen in the bible that Lord Jesus Christ recommended this Kir- tan performances in the Bible. You know APRIL, 1967 155 better than me and I would request you to write a small book on SANKIRTAN MOVEMENT IN THE BIBLE. I have given a note of direction to Hayagriva for writing a Drama on Lord Chaitanya and if he can deliver us a nice Drama for staging in your different parts of the State it will be a great stride for our mission and I hope it will help us financially a great deal. Just you encourage Hayagriva to write this Drama very nicely in Poetry so that they can be sung in western tone all over America and Europe and staged every- where to cover our expenses. Brahmananda may try Mr. Kallman and Mr. Fulton to help me getting a per- manent Visa immediately. These two gen- tlemen have entered into Contract with me for recording and lecturing all over U.S.A. and it will be a great loss on their part if I am not granted a permanent Visa. Mr. Fulton may arrange immediately some lectures in Canada and that will help us both ways namely to save the Visa from being cancelled at the same time I can visit Montreal without any hindrance. You can reply this letter to New York address because by this time 3-15 P.M. (San Francisco time) on Sunday next I shall be in New York. Convey my blessing to Sriman Janar- dan, Paul, Hansa and Helena. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-3 New York 10th April, 1967 My dear Janaki Devi, Haridas, Mukunda Das, Shyamsunder Malati Devi, Hayagriva Das, Harsarani Devi, Devakinandan Lilavati, Ravindra Svarupa, Haladhar Dasi, Upendra Subal Das, Krishna Devi, Dayananda, Nandarani, Jayananda, Ballabhi Dasi, Shyamadasi, Ramanuja Yamuna Devi, Gurudas Yogmaya, Mr. Mathews, and all other devotees and friends, Please accept my hearty greetings and blessings. Iam so much obliged to you for your devotion and affection for me. I thought of you all throughout my journey from Francisco toNew York and I was praying to Lord Krishna for your more and more advancement in Krishna Con- sciousness On my arrival here I was re- ceived by hundreds of devotees and friends although Mr. Ginsberge was out of the town. One young professor from In- dia first greeted me and told me that Swamiji you are doing here real work whereas others who have come from In- dia, have simply formed some groups of old lady students without any real infor- mation of Indian original culture. Any way the reception in New York was very good organised by our students here and there was distribution of varieties of Pra- sadam to about 100 men in the temple. I was not least tired and after landing from the air ship although there was some blockade in my ear still I continued meet- ing for three hours. Iam now very well al- though I am feeling your great separation. Please continue Kirtan as usual with devo- tionand you will make more and more ad- vancement in Krishna consciousness. Hope you are all well and I beg to remain Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-4 New York 12th April, 1967 Dear Mr. Senior Dambergs, Kindly accept my greetings. I am un- known to you but I have heard about you from your very good grandson Sriman Janardan (Janis). I have heard that you have been ailing since a long time but I 156 Letters from Srila Prabhupada have heard also that you are a great devo- tee of Lord Jesus Christ. It is very good. I am also an insignificant servant of Lord Jesus Christ because I am preaching the same message as Lord Jesus did. I preach- ing Godconsciousness or Krishna con- sciousness. Fools thought that Lord Jesus Christ was dead by crucifixion but He res- urrected. All living entities are parts and parcel of the Supreme Lord and therefore they are also eternal. All our ailments are due to the external body. Although we have to suffer some time from bodily in- conveniences specially in the old age, still if we are Godconscious, we shall not feel the pangs. The best thing is therefore to Chant the holy Name of the Lord Con- stantly. I would you request you to chant always God’s holy Name. We are chanting God’s holy name always and instructing our students to do so. If you have any holy name for God do chant Him always and it will do you the greatest benefit. And by chanting so when you will be remember- ing Him always then you transfer to the Kingdom of God is guaranteed. When you return to the Kingdom of God there is no necessity to come back again to the rotten world full of miseries. We are chanting God’s Name as Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare. The Lord Has millions of holy names and you can chant any one of them and each and every Name of the Lord is full potential. We chant the abovementioned holy Name of the Lord because the name was Chanted by Lord Chaitanya the father of this movement of Krishna Conscious- ness. We follow Lord Chaitanya’s foot- prints to achieve very quick result. I would advise you also to follow the princi- ple. Krishna means the most attractive reservoir of Pleasure.Who does not want such pleasure? Therefore we want Krishna and nothing more. Hope you will understand me right. May Krishna give you all peace of mind. You are so lucky that you have got a nice boy like Janis as descendant of your good family. He will render you greatest ser- vice to your family by his becoming Krishna conscious, Yours very sincerely A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-5 New York 12th April, 1967 My Dear Janardana, I am in due receipt of your very long letter of April 10,1967. On thesame day I received also your wife’s letter requesting me to pay $300.00 which she gave in loan to the Society. I have at once replied to her letter through Rayarama that the money, $300, which she has given in loan to the Society must be returned to her, and Iam glad that you are going to repay next week. If you, however, find any difficulty to repay her, then write to me and I shall manage to send her the $300. Of course it will be difficult for the managers to send $300 while they have lost $6,000. Still, I do not wish to put your wife into trouble for the money which she faithfully loaned to the Society. So kindly let me know that you are going to repay her loan. Other- wise I shall send her the money. I can understand that there is some dif- ficulty in meeting the regular expenditure of your Society—namely $350, as you have stated in detail. I apprehended this difficulty in San Francisco when you first informed me of opening a branch in Mon- treal, and I discouraged the enterprise. But you were, both you and Kirtanananda, all enthusiastic. Now when you have opened it is not good to close it; that will be a discredit for APRIL, 1967 157 the Society. Try to continue the branch by co-operation. I can understand that you are a family man. You cannot expend the whole amount you earn, but as your wife has proposed that she can allow you to spare 50%. So either 50% or any per cent you can easily spare for the Society, we shall welcome. Don’t be overburdened. We don’t want anyone to be overburdened. Rather I shall ask Kirtanananda who is not a family man to take the whole responsi- bility. So don’t be agitated. Prosecute Krishna consciousness in peacefulness. One thing I shall request you and your wife: to translate into French all our books. The Society will be obliged to you by your intellectual service more than by money; because you are a family man and you require money. I hope this will satisfy you. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-6 New York 12th April, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my greetings and hearty blessings. I hope in the meantime you have received my previous letter inform- ing my safe arrival in New York. To-day I have received the certificates from India and the copies are enclosed herewith. Please immediately consult your Lawyer friend who wanted this cer- tificates and do the needful. I must have now the Permanent visa otherwise I can- not go to Montreal and work will suffer very much if I do not go to Montreal by the next month. Kindly let me know what you have done in this connection and I shall wait your letter with interest. I heard that for appointing a teacher- foreigner expert in particular subject one has to submit application with $25.00 fees and certificate of bona fides of the teacher sponsored by some American. The form I got from the office of Immigration is per- haps lying at San Francisco. Anyway you wanted the certificate which is now obtained and now you can do the needful quickly and let me know what you have done. Please offer my blessings to all my devotees and specially Janaki Devi. Awaiting your early reply. I hope you are following the prescribed routine work for holding the classes and shall be glad to know about it. Your ever well wisher. A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: Copy of the certificate. N.B. I have not heard anything about the printing affair of Bhagavad Gita. 67-4-7 New York 13th April, 1967 IHA YASYA HARER DASYE KARMANA MANASA VACHA. MIKHILESVAPYAVASTHASU JIVAN MUKTA SA UCHYATE, by work, words + mind. “A person, who is always anxious to render service unto the Supreme Lord Hari, as His eternal servitor, in all condi- tions of life he is considered to be liber- ated even though within the material body” My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings and convey the same to all devotees there. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 10th instant and have noted the contents with great de- light. Your mutual understanding with Sriman Janardan making Krishna as the center of attraction is very much enlight- ening to me. Transcendental jealousy is not wrong but it is absolute. In the tran- scendental world there are jealous parties also like the party of Radharani and the 158 Letters from Srila Prabhupada party of Satyabhama. Radharani and Sa- tyabhama are always jealous of one an- other but the center is Krishna. There are many material examples also. There are many political parties in a state but inspite of all political jealousies they are one in serving the state. Similarly Krishna being the center all competetion and jealousies for serving Krishna the best is always Ab- solute provided such jealousies do not come down to the material plane. Krishna consciousness means to in- crease the number of persons in Krishna consciousness. Therefore it is the duty of a Brahmachary to go door to door as beg- gar and enlighten people in Krishna con- sciousness. Whenever you go to some person he will hear something from the devotee about Krishna consciousness and that will be very much beneficial for both the devotee and the person who hears the devotee. In India the Brahmacharies are meant for begging from door to door for the Spiritual Master. But in your country this activity is not allowed, therefore some devices like selling the publications re- cruiting members, inviting them to our meetings and likewise activities must be taken by the Brahmacharies and that will be nice. Grihasthas or the householders have responsibility of family therefore whatever contribution they can offer for the Society is welcome. Afterall, Krishna is the ultimate Per- son. We are just trying to serve Him. Your conviction that we have to supply the demands of Krishna and not to de- mand anything from Him is the pure de- votional philosophy. The followers of Lord Chaitanya never makes Krishna the Order supplier but the devotees become the order supplier of Krishna. Krishna wants that all His bewildered sons may be turned towards Him and therefore the more we are able to turn devotees of Krishna the more our service is re- cognised. We have to work practically how this mission can be well organised. Residential quarters for students and others on terms of our rigidity is very good project. We should increase this project like Y.M.C.A. organisation without any profit. We shall supply nice Prasadam at cheap rate and we shall give shelter to per- sons who will abide by our rules. That will help in increasing the numbers of devotees because they will attend our lectures and take our Prasadam and will have opportu- nity to hear Srimad Bhagavatam etc. I think we should make an experiment of this pro- ject during the world Exposition. I understand that you are going to take sanction of India Govt for distribution of the literatures. But the present India Gov- ernment has a phobia against anything which is religious fervour. The best thing would have been to have one small stall for ourselves from the Exposition authotity without any co-operation of the Indian Pa- vilion. Then we would be able to function independently. If we distribute our Prasa- dam, our literature, try to sell our books and other literatures and go on playing our records and sell them, I think that will be proper utilisation of our Krishna Con- scious energy. If possible try to work on this line. When I think of Indian Govern- ment I become at once hopeless on ac- count of the secular procedure. I have approved your prospectus and I am sending herewith copies of certificates about my bonafides from Gaudiaya Vaisnava Societies in India. Our Goudiya societies are many many times older than the Ramakrishna Mission. I am the only representative in U.S.A. of my 500 hun- dred years old societies in India. If Rama- krishna mission can have all facilities from U.S.A. Government for preaching their cult and allow all Ramakrishna Mis- sion Sanyasins remain here, why I shall not be allowed to remain here for propa- gating Lord Chaitanya’s movement. Any- way I have now certificates from my APRIL, 1967 159 Godbrothers in India where we have got very big organisations in the matter of Krishna consciousness and let me see how things take shape. To-day I am going to initiate five devo- tees who were waiting for me while I was at San Francisco. Hope you are well and awaiting your early reply Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosures: 7 67-4-8 New York 14th April, 1967 My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 12th in- stant and have noted the contents very carefully. It is very pleasing to learn that you had very good Kirtan on the 1 1th in- stant night with many devotees. Forget ev- erything and go on with your Kirtan that will bring us all transcendental bliss. I re- ceived all letters from Janardan and I have duly replied them including one meant for his grandmother who is ailing for some time past. You are all good souls and therefore Krishna has sent you all for giv- ing me chance to serve Krishna. Regarding permanent Visa from Canada it is very welcome suggestion. As I have told you several times that I want at least twelve trained devotees and let us tour all over the world for preaching the gospel of Krishna Consciousness. That will satisfy me. Now we have both records and books and I have ordered for more books from India and I have now money to print the Geetopanisad. Janardan’s friend Mr. McGill certainly can help me in this connection. Why not make me an Hon. teacher in the Religion Department for teaching the cult of Lord Chaitanya which is the living religion of the world. All other religions of the world are carried by more sentiments than philosophy but Chaitanya cult is full of philosophy and transcendental sentiments or emotions. I am enclosing herewith certificates of my bonafides and see if you can arrange for my Permanent Visa from Canada. Mr. Ypsilanti the Lawyer for my Visa asks me not to go to Montreal because as soon as I cross the border of U.S.A. I shall not be allowed to enter U.S.A. until I return to India and apply for new visa. And He is simply taking time to draw some more fees. Under the circumstances if it is pos- sible for me to get Candian permanent Visa through the good office of Mr. McGill then I can immediately start for Montreal. Please let me know how far it is possible and if Janardan has made any progress in this connection. “Why we cannot eat meat” , to answer this question the staight reply is that “be- cause Krishna does not eat meat”. We are concerned with Krishna Consciousness so our eating is dependent on Krishna Consciousness. We cannot eat, cannot do, cannot think, cannot will or can do noth- ing without Krishna consciousness. By nature one has to eat some weaker living being and therefore animals are eaten by man, vegetables are eaten by animal or the weak is eaten by the strong and therefore one living being is eaten by another stronger living being. But there is a sys- tematic rules and principles for eating and a human being is to eat Krishna Prasa- dam. If Krishna would have eaten meat, we would have also eaten His meat Prasa- dam. We are concerned with Krishna Pra- sadam. In this connection please consult my writing in Srimad Bhagavatam third volume page 822 “One living being is the food for the other” also please consult page 984 “The principles of Cow Killing” 160 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Mydear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have duly received the note sent for your grandmother. Although we have spent $500.00 till now for my permanent Visa, our Lawyer is not yet successful. He does not advise me to cross the borders of U.S.A. otherwise the Visa which is now extended to February 1969, will be can- celled. And I cannot return to U.S.A. It is very difficult to deal with these lawyers. Now if it is possible for me to have Cana- dian Visa as Kirtanananda has suggested in his letter under reply and which you have also confirmed that it can be done, then please do it immediately and I can start for Montreal never mind it is can- celled here. You will find herewith two certificates of my bonafides in the matter of my becoming the teacher of Chaitanya Cult. I have got my books also. So if I am appointed as teacher I think the whole problem is solved. I hope you will try for this and let me know what is the opinion of Mr. McGill who is your friend. Jadurani also has drawn one design for the Montreal Prospectus enclosed here- with please find. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 3 & 1 Letter from N.Y.U. 67-4-9 New York 15th April, 1967 TRUE COPY. of Letter under separate post with Gramophone Record AND A CHEQUE FOR RS. 50/- “My dear Sri Krishna Panditji, Please accept my greetings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 9th instant and have noted the contents carefully. As promised by me previously I am sending herewith the Gramophone Record of my Kirtan and short speech thereof. I hope you will enjoy it. Iam very sorry to learn that Srimati Bahuji is suffering from Pyorrhea. It is due to excessive Bettle chewing. Any way I am sending herewith a small cheque for her treatment. Please accept it with my blessings. “Regarding printing work, I am pre- pared to guarantee for payment to the press if the printing is first class just suit- able to the American taste. If Joshiji ap- pears to be not interested why not yourself do the work and I am prepared to pay you as stated in my previous letter. “Regarding your introduction to my disciples here, you can immediately note down the following address. He is inter- ested in importing musical instruments from India. If you can immediately ar- range to supplyfrom Delhi things like Ag- garbatti, Dhupa, Musical instruments, Varanasi Sari, Bronze cymbals, Printed matters, Printed cloths from Agra and Farukhabad etc, you can do very good business and make profit not less than Rs200/- per moth or more. Add only 5% on the purchase price or sometimes less than 5% on purchase values and you will be do good business. But if you can not write in Englishhow you will make corre- spondence with them. You must write in English or get it done by some one who knows English Unless you write in En- glish how can you deal with them. Please note down the following address immde- diately and correspond with him giving reference of my name. “Mr. Michael Grant 518 Frederick Street, San Francisco, California 94117. “Regarding my room in the temple, I can understand that you want to use it for many other purposes and you cannot agree to use it exclusively for my Bha- gavatam Printing. I do not wish to disturb you. As you are very much anxious to get the room vacated, I have decided to vacate it without delay. I have advised Srimad APRIL, 1967 161 B.V. Narayan Maharaj of Mathura (Ke- saVji Gaudiya Matha) to vacate the room without delay. When he goes to the Tem- ple please help him as far as possible and he will certainly vacate the room for your other religious purposes as you have in- formed me in your letter under reply. In conclusion I may inform you that I can introduce to you many names in this country provided you can arrange for cor- respondence in English. Who will read your Hindi letters. Please note that with- out English you cannot be in touch with the outer world at least in Business. Why not train at least one of your sons in En- glish correspondence and I will help him in doing ourworld business and your family will be profited. “Hope you are well.) Your ever well wisher. A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami My Sri Krishna Panditji, The above letter was to be posted by air mail. But my students have posted it along with the Gramophone Record by ordinary mail. So it will take some time to reach you. I therefore send the copy of the above letter by air mail sothat you can know the reply of your letter of the 9th instnat. Kindly help Narayan Maharaj in clearing the room. Awaiting your reply. Yours etc. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-10 18th April, 1967 Madam Sumati Morarji Baisaheba, Please accept my greetings. Hope ev- erything is well with you. Kindly refer to your letter of 22nd November 1966 in which you ask me two copies of my Sri- mad Bhagavatam. I had some books in Bombay c/o the Universal Book House, Dadar and I advised them to deliver you the books. It is understood that they have delivered all the books to your office. 1 would therefore request you to take as many books as you may require and the balance out of 126 books may be booked to New York by any one of your ships. You will be pleased to know that peo- ple in this country specially the younger section are accepting the philosophy of Bhagvat Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam as it is and I am hopeful of my mission in this country. I am enclosing herewith some press cuttings which will convince about my success inpreaching in this country. Kindly pray to your Balakrishna to help me more in this connection. I have now opened three centres namely one in New York, One in San Francisco and one in Montreal (Canada). This branch is opened by one ofmy American disciples. Kindly let me know if you have got any of- fice in Montreal and in San Francisco. I shall be much pleased to hear from you at your earliest convenience. Kindly convey my blessings to Sriman Choksi and your other Secretaries. Hope you are well, Yours sincerely, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosures:3 67-4-11 22nd April, 1967 My dear Ballabhi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of the 18th instant and I have noted the contents with so much pleasure. I know that you poor girl have been frustrated by the so called society and you deeply needed the shelter of Krishna Consciousness. Krishna kindly sent you to me and I have tried to give you whatever I had in my possession. Please go on chanting Hare Krishna Hare Krishna as you are doing now and this 162 Letters from Srila Prabhupada very chanting will give you all peace and prosperity both in this life and the next. Never expect any good from the so called society, friendship and love. Only Krishna is the genuine friend of all living beings and it is He only who can give us all benediction. The more you advance in Krishna Consciousness chanting Hare Krishna Hare Krishna the more you be- come spiritually advanced and happy in all respects. The separation which you are feeling on account of my physical absence is good sign. The more you feel such separation the more you will be situated in Krishna Con- sciousness. Lord Chaitanya felt this separa- tion and His process of approaching Krishna is the feeling of separation. How- ever I shall return to San Francisco as soon as possible. How is Nandarani and her hus- band Dayananda not hear from them since I have come back to New York. Herewith please find some notes for Sri- man Subal das and his wife Krishna Devi. My dear Subaldas and Krishna Devi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter and so very nicely made. I am enjoing your prep- arations daily and it is so____ I am glad that you are prosecuting the regularly and that will make you happy in the world both in this life and in the next. Make Kirtan your life and soul and He will give you all benediction. My dear Srimati Harsarani, Please accept my blessings. I have duly received your bags for the beads and thank you very much. I hope you are Kirtan nicely and feeling tran- scendental happiness. Please offer my blessings to all the boys and girls. Hope to hear from you. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-4-12 New York 27th April, 1967 My dear Pradyumnadasa Brahmachary, Please accept my blessings and I beg to thank you for your jetter of the 22nd in- stant. I am returning herewith the Bank card duly signed by me. Pradyumna is Krishna’s plenary expansion like Vasu- deva, Aniruddha and Samkarsan. When Krishna appeared on the earth Pra- dyumna appeared as His son born of Rukmini. The immediate expansion of Krishna is Valadeva who appeared as el- der brother of Krishna and Valadeva ex- pands Himself further as Samkarsan, Vasudeva, Pradyumna, and Aniruddha. There are such innumerable expansions of Krishna and Pradyumma is one of them. There is no difference in potency of all these expansions. I am so glad to learn that you had no difficulty on the border. These man made borders of land are disturbances in the Law of the Lord. All lands belong to Krishna and as servant of Krishna we have every right to enter any land but artificial man made civilisation has created so many nonsense and these are the condi- tions of material existence. Sometimes we have to place ourselves under such condi- tions to make the best use of a bad bar- gain, but rest assured in the discharge of Krishna conscious duties Krishna will al- ways give us His protection and we may discharge our duties unhesitatingly. I have seen in you that Krishna has special mercy upon you and utilise this mercy fully so that in this very life you can be elected as the associate of Krishna in His supreme abode Goloka Vrindaban. As you are all good souls Krishna will help you always in your business of Krishna Conscious- ness. Regarding Harmonium, you can im- mediately send me a Money Order check $100.00 and I shall arrange for one Har- APRIL, 1967 163 monium the best as well as for one good Mridanga and a few pairs of Kartal. My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. By the Grace of Sri Krishna youare doing well in the management of the Montreal center and your combined service will improve the condition more and more. Be jolly al- ways knowing well that Krishna is with you and all sincere attempt to improve the Montreal Branch will be successful. I have already asked Shyamsunder of San Francisco to sculpt one set of Sri Murtis of Jaggannatha for Montreal but if you can locally do it there will be great saving of transport charges. I am sending herewith one picture of Jagannatha as they are situated in San Francisco. You have seen the place and now you can arrange for the Deity like the picture and I wish to follow the same principle in all our branches. The Deity room should not be separate from the common lecture room but it should be situated in such a place that all can see the Deity perfectly. But arrange- ment should be made in such a way that there would be one round curtain to cover the place when there is no class. They should not always be exposed, only dur- ing.the class hours the curtain should be open. The picture enclosed herewith maybe enlarged and sent me back again. Regarding Easy Journey to Other Planets if you like this book just edit it nicely and we shall get it printed here with addition of my chanting essay. Now I am trying for printing arrangement and this book also can be nicely printed provided you take charge of distribution. I am very much anxious for sale of my books. It has to be organised; please think over this matter. If the books are not properly sold how I can print so many books. Let Pra- dyumna help me in seiling the books. If it is possible you can make Jagannath statues in various sizes for sale and I ap- prove this project. We have ordered for some Krishna pictures and they are also for sale. Regarding Bengalis. I think it will be difficult for them to join us because we pure Vaisnavas. The Bengalis are gener- ally worshipers of Goddess Kali for fa- cility of eating meat and fish. But some of them may join us in minority. Indians other than the Bengalis may join us in large numbers because most of them are vegetarians. Any way do not disturb them or any one about their personal affairs but give every one the chance of joining us in Kirtan that will pave the path of Krishna Consciouusness. You are intelligent enough and I hope you will understand me right. You will be glad to know that I have been able, by Grace of Krishna, to recover $4227, and odds out of the $5000.00 gone in the belly of Sir Conman Fraud (Payne) and Mr. Goldsmith is trying to recover at least $500.00 out of another $750.00 in the belly of Payne. I prayed to Krishna specially for this recovery because I thought that Krishna’s money may not be utilised for sense gratification. So I think still we shall be in loss of about $1000.00 or more which cannot be recovered be- cause they have been shared by the Law- yers. Any way it is Krishna’s Grace but in future all of you must be very cautious to deal with men like Payne whom I trusted not from the very beginning. Krishna is dictating you from within for nice management and I am very glad to have detailed statement of accounts. You will also be glad to know that Steadhisa (Stanley) has joined us again in good health. He is a sincere devotee of theLord. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure :2. 164 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 67-4-13 New York 27th April, 1967 My dear Sripada Nripen Babu, Please accept my humble dandabats. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 22nd instant and have carefully noted the con- tents. The substance of the letter is that Gorachand has sufficiently exploited his temporary position with power of Attor- ney and this process is going on since very long time even prior to the arrival of Gora- chand at the cost of the temple property. Amalgamation of all the deities namely the deity of Krishnadas Kaviraj Goswami, Deity of Bhugarbha Goswami, the Deity of Jaydeva Goswami and the Deity of Jiva Goswami Prabhupada at one place by your maternal uncle is the beginning of this mismanagement culminating at last by selling the properties of the. respective deities by Gorachand for his personal sense gratification—is clear case of mis- appropriation and it is clear case of crimi- nal breach of trust. But I think criminal case of breach of trust or misappropria- tion or similar criminal charges cannot be brought against Gorachand because he will present himself as a co-sebait or a partner in the trust. So far I know a part- ner cannot be prosecuted criminally but I think as Gorachand has broken the terms of your Power of Attorney which you have already cancelled is a case against him and he can be prosecuted immediately. I am not a lawyer but if he can be criminally prosecuted on this ground of breaking the terms of Power of Attorney you must im- mediately prosecute him on this ground and make him responsible for all loss of the property. Side by side you have imme- diately to apply for being appointed the Receiver of the state by the courtfor taking charge of the property. If so required you can become the joint Receiver of the State by court permission and that will solve the whole probles. This you can apply imme- diately and showing the imergency of the matter the court will immediately grant this Receivership either jointly and sever- ally. If the court can be convinced that Gorachand has already mismanaged the property, his claim to come into the man- agement of the affairs will not be accepted and then you become the Receiver of the Property and as such you can offer secu- rity of your personal property which also happen in U.P. So there will be no diffi- culty. I think you should adopt this policy and you will be successful. Other cases will be simply dragging and will have no immediate effect. Besides that as I have already informed you in my previous let- ter that your presence or your son’s pres- ence as the co-sebait in the temple is very essential. Otherwise you shall not be able to protect the state and I think for the sake of Radhadamodarji and Srila Jiva Go- swami you must adopt this principle and stay in the temple as co-sebait and if Gora- chand does not allow you to stay either you can stay at my rooms or you can ask the court to claim your room which Gora- chand has forcibly occupied. Any way if you or your representative does not live you cannot give any protection. I can understand that you are short of fund because you have retired from your service. Although you have not asked me still my conscience says that I may send you some money on account of the land you may give me on either lease terms or on sale. I am therefore advising my soci- ety to send you $100.00 one hundred dol- lars or Rs750/-as earnest money. Please therefore send a receipt to my society as co-sebait of the property otherwise you cannot take charge or manage the prop- erty. Gorachand has done everything il- legally and as Receiver of the state appointed by the court you can recover all the misappropriated money from him. If you know that he has money in the bank on personal account you can sus- APRIL, 1967 165 pend the payment as Receiver. Therefore you must take this step immediately as advised hereinbefore. My society will not be agreeable to negotiate with any one who is not permitted by the court eithet to sell or giveout on lease. The money sent by the society as earnest money may remain with you till such completion of-negotiation and in the meantime you can send a receipt on the society’s account. So far the land is concerned my society desires to construct a nice American house on the land for study and promulga- tion of the Goswami literatures all over the world. We shall start a fine press for publi- cation both in Sanskrit and English lan- guage and we can appoint your son as the Press manager if he can manage. I wish I would have gone immediately to India but if I go just now the work here will suffer. So please be with me in this project as you have promisedfor the service of Srila Jiva Goswami. I think simply the land in Lo- tankunja will not be sufficient. I want other lands also on the northern side of my room as well as on the western side of the Temple. But rest assured if you can give us some land certainly a new chapter..... New York Ist May, 1967 67-5-1 My dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of April 27,1967 and have noted the contents carefully. My first in- struction to you is that you must pass your M.A. Examination before any other consid- eration. Your degree will be a great asset for the society in the near future. So this is your first consideration. Regarding returning the money you do not bother much. Your good wife gave in loan to the society $300.00 and she must have the money returned. So do not bother about it. The society will return the money to N.Y. conveniently. There is no immediate necessity. Regarding my Canadian Visa, I shall go to Montreal when you are confident of getting it there. Otherwise I shall lose the U.S.A. Visa also. So conveniently you try to get information from the right source and the best thing will be to get me as a teacher as you suggested in your previous letter. So far I am personally concerned either I remain here or there my business is to chant the glories of Lord Krishna. Wherever I get chance to chant is good for me. I have no idea for sight seeing in any country because I know that all land be- long to Krishna and anywhere I remain I remain at His Lotus Feet. But if you think my presence in Montreal will be good for the Branch there I am prepared to go there any moment you ask me to go at all risk even if I am bereft of the U.S. visa. I do not mind it. Offer my blessing to all devo- tees there and your good wife. Yours ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-2 New York 4th May, 1967 My dear Shyamasundar, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of April 28, 1967, and thank you for returning the check. For the balance eight books you can send me your check conveniently, there is no hurry. It is so pleasing to me that you are giv- ing service to Krishna by your intelli- gence, by your body, by your mind. Everything is very nice and this will make you more and more progressive in under- standing Krishna Consciousness. I think you are feeling and understanding how you are making progress and I am very glad to see it. Iam also very much satis- fied to see you have got a good compan- ion, your wife Malati. She is very nice. I have received her letter, please convey my blessings unto her. I know that you are not much for writing letters but you are much for work. This is very good proposal. Make the Rathayatra Festival very great success. This will be a great introduction in your city and people will appreciate it and if we can introduce successfully this Rathayatara Festival not only in San Fran- cisco but also in New York and also in Montreal, then it will be a great success of my mission in this country. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 168 Letters from Srila Prabhupada My dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter of the 25th, April 1967, and I am very glad to know the sen- timent expressed therein. You are a very sincere girl and your sentiment is also very nice. One should always feel very humble, that will help one to make prog- ress in Krishna Consciousness. So your humble feeling that you are shrouded by illusion is very nice, at the same time your feeling that Krishna Consciousness is so nice that it makes everything easy. You have desired me to return to San Francisco by the Ist of June. If Krishna wishes it is not impossible. My program was to go to Montreal but there is some difficulty about the visa so I may not go to Montreal, and in case I do not go it will be not difficult for me to return by 1st June to San Francisco. If Iam not there by 1st of June by the Ist of July I must be there. Thank you very much. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-3 New York 4th May, 1967 My dear Upendra, Iam in due receipt of your affectionate letter dated April 26, 1967. Thank you very much. Please accept my blessings and I also thank you very much for your sandalwood book marker. It is wonderful. Everyone appreciated this present and I am keeping it very carefully. I am glad that you are changing your office time and you shall have more time to perform kir- tan. Iam glad that you have mentioned the first stanza of Prayer to Spiritual Master. I think you know the meaning of this stanza. The meaning of this stanza is that, this world is just like forest fire and spiri- tual master is just like the cloud on the sky, therefore as the forest fire can be ex- tinguished only by water from the sky, similarly, one can be peaceful and ele- vated in spiritual consciousness or Krishna Consciousness only by the mercy of a bonafide Spiritual Master. The process which you are following is very nice. Your humbleness and sincerity will make you more and more advanced in Krishna Consciousness. I shall pray to Krishna for your welfare always. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-5-4 New York 5th May, 1967 San Francisco My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 1, 1967 and thank you very much. You will be pleased to know that yesterday at noon at the City College of New York I had a very successful meeting amongst the stu- dents. There were about 200 students present, and at the last kirtan they all danced and sung with me, and there were 20 minutes of answers and questions. This meeting was arranged by the Phi- losophy Dept. Chairman, so it was very nice and successful. Regarding your en- quiry about the individual soul present, I think you will remember that I have sev- eral times explained that throughout the whole cosmic creation, not only in the cosmic creation, in the Spiritual World also, the individual is full everywhere, they are numberless. In the material world, the number of souls are very small. In the Spiritual World the number of indi- vidual souls are far far greater than what they are here. The conditioned souls are just like prisoners, as we have got less population in the prison house, similarly, MAY, 1967 169 in the material world the number of indi- vidual souls are very small. So you may understand from me that the individual souls are everywhere, means, anywhere you go within this material world there are individual living entities, in all planets in the outer space, in the water, on the land everywhere. You have done right by attaching a lace on the mridunga just to make it convenient playing while dancing. I request you to get more mridungas, of course the first con- signment of mridungas and the cymbals I sent money from my personal book ac- count but if you want more mridungas you will have to arrange to pay. A first class mridunga available in India is about ten dollars. I think you should get at least 4 mridungas and teach, so that other stu- dents also can play on it, so if there are 3 or 4 mridungas played at the park and there are about 20 pairs of cymbals then the kirtan will be more beautiful. We have to popularise this movement everywhere so if you send me 100 dollars then I can secure for you, one best harmonium and 2 mridungas and 3 pairs of cymbals. What happened about your preparing the cym- bals; if you prepare the cymbals there is possibility of being sold in New York, many pairs—so why don’t you do it? But if you are not doing it then you must get it from India. It is very pleasing to hear that you are keeping the temple neat and clean, at the same time you bedeck the temple with flowers. I am very glad to learn that you have got a technicolor movie and it is very nice that it has sound added of our voices. I duly received the photos and immigration material, but neither the photos could be offset printed, nor could I use the immi- gration material as sent by you. Mr. Ypslantin the lawyer is going in his own way, so he does not take this material for- merly I offered, so let the matter be done in his own; there is no other way than to depend on the lawyer. Similarly in Mon- treal also, Janos our student, Janardan is trying for a Canadian visa. Let me see what is done. I received a letter from your wife, Janaki. I think she is the foremost girl who is feeling my separation, so kindly inform her that I am very much pleased to learn that she is making progress considerably in Krishna Consciousness. I have also received a letter from her sister and her brother in law, Guru das, so I am replying to them separately. I think I shall address them care of our temple and when you receive you can re-direct if they are not there. I shall be very glad to receive some let- ters from you. Give me the weekly report of your activities at San Francisco. Thanking you once more, I am your ever well-wisher, Yours, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I learn that in the temple there are sometimes men with no work. This should not be allowed. Every one must be busy with some work in Krishna Con- sciousness. Idleness is not Krishna Con- sciousness. Please take care of this omission I shall be glad to hear from you about this. ACB 67-5-5 New York 5th May, 1967 San Francisco My dear Guru das and Yamuna, Iam very much pleased to receive your writing and short letter dated 25th April, 1967. Please accept my blessings. I hope you are living very peacefully and chant- ing Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare. I am very much pleased to see your 170 Letters from Srila Prabhupada good handwriting. I shall therefore re- quest you to utilise your talent in the ser- vice of Krishna. I think if you write Hare Krishna Hare Krishna in the same style as you have sent me one specimen, on bigger type on canvas, say 30 inches by 20 inches in color or black and white, it would be a very good engagement for you and at the same time we can utilise those sign boards hanging in nice places. So if you have got time you can prepare immediately such signboards Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare, as you have sent me the specimen, on canvas. Make the canvas colored bluish Krishna color and write Hare Krishna in white. It will be very nice. I have very good appreciation for both of you, Guru das and Yamuna, you are 2 good souls, now you have com- bined. Live peacefully, chant Hare Krishna and be happy in your life. Thanking you, Ever your well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-6 New York 5th May, 1967 Montreal My dear Kirtanananda, I am in due receipt of your letter dated May Ist 1967 and I am very pleased to go through it. Please accept my blessings. You are doing very nice alone, and Krishna will help youmore and more. As you are managing our Montreal center, similarly, Mukunda and Haridas and Shy- amsunder are also very nicely managing the center in San Francisco. I have re- ceived also one letter from Mukunda of the same date, May Ist, 1967 and he writes as follows: “I am happy to report that many more people are attending kir- tan.” Someone has made a beautiful tech- nicolor movie (our first in Golden Gate Park) called ‘‘Hare Krishna”. It has sound, our voices.” I am sorry that you have no good mridunga, but if you send me a hundred dollars as I have already written to Pradyumna I can get a mri- dunga and good harmonium for you so that you can have your kirtan very nicely. I am very much pleased to learn that our comments on the Bhagavat Gita are being appreciated by the audience in Montreal. Regarding printing, if I print the Bhagavat Gita in your country, it will cost not less than 12,000 dollars, out of this I have al- ready secured about 5,000 dollars from one of my students at San Francisco and still I require 6 to 7,000 dollars. I do not know how to secure it, but the only hope is that I have my books. If you can organise the sales of my books, either you or Pra- dyumna, then there is no question of scar- city of money. I can go on printing so many books. But because the books are not selling nicely, neither there is suffi- cient money, so I am handicapped. Any- way, let us depend on Krishna and when He will desire, everything will be very nice. Perhaps you have heard that I have recovered out of that 6,000 dollars which had undergone in the belly of Sir Con Fraud. I have realised about 4700 dollars—the pleaders have taken about 1200 dollars, including Mr. Hill’s lawyer, our lawyer Herzog and I have paid also something to Goldsmith. Anyway, that af- fair is closed. Now we are searching after a bigger place. So far we have not been able to find out a suitable place. We found out a very nice suitable place at 6th Street on Grand, but the difficulty is just on the side there is a butcher and the smell is ob- noxious, so we could not do it. Now there is a bank building on Houston Street, so, that is very nice, but we do not know how to secure it; we are trying for it. I have already written to Janardan about his studies and I have requested him to have his M.A. degreeby all means. You will be pleased to know that appreciation MAY, 1967 171 of our Back T o Godhead and records has come from London and our disciple Dwarkadees, Donald Dougherty is ar- ranging to send 100 records, 3 sets of books and Back To Godhead to London. This time they have made a very nice cover of Back To Godhead and the articles and poetry are very nice. I think they will dispatch to you, and you will enjoy them. Think over how to popularise our samkir- tan. If we can popularise our publication then it will be very nice propaganda. You will be pleased to learn that yester- day we had a nice meeting in the City Col- lege, 138th St. There were about 200 students attending and the program began at 12 noon and ended at 1:30. First of all we chanted and prayed for 45 minutes, then I lectured for another 30 minutes then there were questions and answers for 20 minutes then again, there was chanting and kirtan and dancing for 15 minutes and at the end all the students danced and sang with me. They appreciated the meeting. If we can arrange such meetings in the schools and colleges it will be a very nice thing, because my purpose of coming here to enthuse the younger generation and it is very pleasing to me that Krishna is send- ing me younger generation and sincere souls like you. I think some of you like yourself, Sat-svarupa, Brahmananda and Mukunda and Gargamuni, Achyutananda and all of you had already cultivated this Krishna Consciousness in your past lives, now Lord Chaitanya wants that this move- ment should be spread in the western countries, so most probably in your pre- vious births you were all Indians and culti- vated this Krishna Consciousness. Now Lord Chaitanya has placed you in the western part of the world so that you can now combine together and broadcast the holy message all over the world. Your de- tailed account of the receipt and expendi- ture is very nice, do your duty and Krishna will help you. I have got all ap- proval of your activities and I am thanking you very much. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NOTE: If you wantto come here for 2 or 3 days it will be a very welcome suggestion. So we can talk together about our future programs, and it will be very nice. Haya- griva wants to hear from you. He wants that you should join his Editorial Depart- ment but he will only use you for Iskcon of which he is very __. ACB 67-5-7 New York 6th May, 1967 My dear Upendra, Please accept my blessngs. I am in due receipt of your letter of May 4, 1967 and I am concerned about your for army mobilisation. I am enclosing herewith a letter you may present to the authority and as a Divinity Student you must not be sent to the field. Chant Hare Krishna Krishna will save you. Present our prospectus and all newspaper cuttings. Some new cut- tings I am enclosing herewith. Also I would request you to pay the rent on room in which I was staying. The Society is short of and therefore you can as- sure Haridas, Mukunda and Shyamasun- dar that hence forward you should take responsibility for the rent of my apart- ment. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 4 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. You have nicely done Lord Chaitanya Drama Ist Act. It is nicely done literature but when playing you will have to make it cut short otherwise it will take too long a 172 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda time. I have given it over to Rayrama for reading. Rayrama has arranged for a press. We can now work our own press. So Back To Godhead and our books now can be printed in this press by our own men. I think you should now come back and see the printing work done nicely. You will hear more from Rayrama. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-8 New York 10th May, 1967 Agent The Bank of Baroda Limited Foreign Department Mohan Mansion Chandni Chowk Post Box No. 1409 Delhi, India. Dear Sir, I beg to thank you very much for your letter No. FEX.19/994 of the 27th April 1967 addressed to me San Francisco. Since then I have come to my New York H.Q. and the letter redirected here to day. I very much appreciate your sugges- tion mentioned in the second paragraph of the letter under reply and I may inform you that I have to pay Rs25000/- and odds to Asia Press Delhi for printing books. Please let me know if you will issue letter of credit in their favour and if you do so please send me your advice how many dollars I have to transfer from New York to your office. Awaiting your early reply and thanking you in anticipation. Yours faithfully, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-9 New York 13th May, 1967 San Francisco My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 9th May as well as Srimati Janaki’s letter of the same date. Please convey my blessings for her and all the boys and girls in San Fran- cisco. Since I have come to New York I have not heard anything from Jayananda Das Brahmachary (Jim). Is he regularly attending meetings. I shall be glad to hear from him. The gentleman who wrote on Meditation is Dr. Haridas Chowdhury. You can find his name from the telephone directory. The devotees of the temple must keep themselves engaged otherwise they can- not make progress in Krishna con- sciousness. The maya is very strong and as soon as there is opportunity the Maya will come and attack. Therefore every one should be very careful against the attack of Maya. And the only effective defence is remain Krishna consciousness always. If you can prepare cymbals surely there will be good demand for it. There are many customers here already de- manding it. Gargamuni is supplying them small finger cymbals and they are accept- ing it. So far questions on spiritual realisa- tion and doubts in the study of the Bhagvad Gita or Srimad Bhagavatam may be placed before me and I shall try to solve them to my best knowledge. Regarding publication of the Bhagavad Gita the quotations so far received are 11000 to 13000 thousand dollars. I have got about 6000 thousand dollars and I am eager to have the balance from any other source. The profit derived from record selling may be given to this fund. Garga- muni is paying me in that way. I wish that you may also follow the same principle. MAY, 1967 173 A LC aaaaaaaeeeeeaaaacla Any sitar player or Tablaplayer or any other musician invited in the temple can- not play anything except Hare Krishna. Neither any one can utilise the temple for some musical demonstration. Such things are items for sense gratification. If some- body comes in the temple to chant Hare Krishna by his musical talents he is wel- come otherwise not. Please follow this principle. Here also new youngsters are coming more and more to take interest Krishna consciousness. We require a bigger place but I do not know how Krishna will help us. There is a very nice building in this area and we are negotiating but do not know what is Krishna’s plan. Hope you are all well. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B.Nandarani has sent a letter to Brahmananda asking back her Typewiter. Did you not ask her when I wanted to ex- change with mine? N.B. I have received Balabhadra & ex- pecting Subhadra. In Montreal they are preparing there order so you may not pre- pare for Montreal but if possible make for Los Angeles. ACB 67-5-10 New York 21st May, 1967 My dear Mukunda and Janaki, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 17thins- tant. Your ardent call is responding from heart and I have decided to return to San Francisco any day after Sth June 1967. You can advise therefore the American Air Lines for booking my seat andtake my instruction here when I shall start as you did it last time. Ihave already received letter from Jay- ananda with thanks. I have received letter from all my spiritual children and I am very sorry that I could not reply them timely although I have replied some of them already. But you may announce to them that I am coming at San Francisco very soon some time in the second week of June 1967. The pamphlet which you have sent to me is very encouraging. It is clear from the statement that some of the young men of this country are very much eager to have some spiritual enlightenment and as such this movement Samkirtan inaugu- rated by Lord Chaitanya, is just the suit- able contribution for such searching after truth. So let us take this opportunity and convince them that this movement of Samkirtan is the only means for spiritual realisation, very simple and universal. In our Kirtan there is no need of so called meditation and gymnastic of bodily exer- cise. It is simple and can be practised even by the small children and we have practi- cally seen it how small boys and girls do take part in it by chanting dancing with us and what to speak of eating the delicious Krishna Prasadam. So you can talk with the leaders of the movement to accept this common formula namely chanting Hare Krishna, dancing with it, hear the sublime philosophy of Bhagavad Gita directly from the represen- tative of Krishna, and eat Krishna Pra- sada. Let the leaders be open minded and not be biased by any sectarian thoughts of religiosity. This movement is universal. We invite every one to our feast and Kirtan but when one comes into the confidence we initiate him in the process and request him to ovserve four principles of restric- tions based on philosophy and morality. No body can realise spiritual enlighten- ment without following the principles of purity. Therefore our four principles of re- striction must be adopted when one is se- rious about further enlightenment. I am 174 Letters from Srila Prabhupada glad that Ravindrasvarupa and Deva- kinandan (David) is already negotiating with the authorities and it is good that you are arranging for twenty four hours chant- ing in the proposed camp. My dear Shyamsunder, Please accept my blessings and offer the same to your good companion Srimati Malatidevi. Please inform her that I have received her letter with great appreciation and I shall meet her very soon in San Francisco. Regarding your enquiry about the valuable woodred you have secured, I would advise you to attempt carving Lord Chaitanya and His associates Murtis as I am sending herewith the specimen. If possible you can carve also the Forms of Radha and Krishna separately. If not you can go on carving the same three Forms of Jagannath brother and sister because we have to open many centers one after an- other. I wish to open two centers immedi- ately one in Los Angeles as suggested by Haridas and other in Vancouver. I have a friend in Vancouver who is devotee of Sri- mad Bhagavat Puranam and with his help we can open a centre at Vancouver. I am very glad to see your enthusism in the service of Lord Krishna and I am sure that this spiritual intoxicant of Krishna consciousness will encourage many many students who are actually in search after the Absolute Truth. I am very glad to learn that my students and children in San Francisco are doing well in Krishna con- sciousness. My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. J am in due receipt of your letter. I understand that some girls have volunteered to type and therefore you can now get the revised Geetopanisad nicely and correctly typed before it is handed over to the press. I am advising Rairama to send you the sixth and seventh chapter for editing and I shall take with me the balance for re-editing and Typing. I am reaching San Francisco by the Second week of June1967. Hope you are well. My dear Ravindrasvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to learn that you are doing your best and your good wife is helping you nicely. I have received her letter but I am sorry that I could not reply this good girl. I very much appreciate her feelings and spe- cially the hand writing. So you have very nice qualified girl as your life’s compan- ion and I bless you all that you peacefully carry out the message of Krishna Con- sciousness to the needy men of the world. I am glad to learn that you are in touch with the council for A summer of Love. Please try to convince them that this movement of Krishna Consciousness is the only remedy for treatment for the dis- eased condition of human society. The ba- sic principle of disease is Godlessness and this movement is approved method for re- viving Godconsciousness. So let the lead- ers take this movement more seriously and it will actually relieve the suffering humanity and specially the youths who are out to search out something spiritual. The youth of America who are so search- ing I am very much sympathetic with them and their qualification of detach- ment to the material advancement of civi- lization will alone help them to advance in Krishna or Godconsciousness. If they pa- tiently hear me I am sure they will be con- vinced as you have been. So before my arrival you may make some arrangement so that I can speak to the greatest number of people and I am sure they will appreci- ate my presentation. Hope this will find MAY, 1967 175 you all well. Please convey my blessing to Sriman Devakinandan Brahmachary and others. Yours ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: one design for Shyamsunder for carving. New York 24th May, 1967 67-5-11 San Francisco My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. Since I wrote you last an important negotiation is going on in respect of purchasing a very nice house for the ISKCON H.Q. in New York. So I may not start in the beginning of the Second week of June 1967; but Iam sure to reach there by the end of Second week of June 1967. I hope this will not cause any inconvenience. I shall be glad to hear from you. Please convey my blessings to Janaki and other girls. Hope you are well, Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-5-12 New York 24th May, 1967 My dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your air mail special deliv- ery letter. Thank you very much for the same. I heard that you are not working there in the U.S. Mail dept. And here we want some assistants for the Press Depart- ment. But later on it is understood that you are going to work from the Ist June 1967. If you are working there, you need not come here. I am going to San Francisco by the 15th of June 1967. And when I go there I shall talk in details. Please inform Hayagriva that Garga- muni has sent him the whole set of En- glish Chaitanya Charitamrita which he may read carefully and then return it back. Please convey my blessings toall devo- tees boys and girls. I am always thinking about you all. Your ever well wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JUNE New York lst June, 1967 67-6-1 Hari Bhakta Nudasa Sri Krishna Pandit Kuncha, Dilwali Singh Rajmere Gate Delhi 6 Dear Hari Bhakta Nudasa, I’m writing this letter from the hospi- tal. All of a sudden I’ve developed some headache, as well as throbbing of the chest. When I rub my chest I feel sensa- tion in my left hand and when I rub my hand I feel sensation in my chest. My left hand no more works independently. I therefore ask you if there is any good Ve- dic physician in Mathura who can send me some medicines, that, is, you pur- chase and send them by air mail to our temple: ISKCON, 26 2nd Ave., New York, N.Y. They symptom is predomi- nantly when I get severe pain within my head. And the trembling of the left hand is coming every ten or fifteen minutes. I am afraid if this is not a disease like Lakhya; the boys are taking utmost care of me, there is no scarcity of care. But still after all, this body is subject to death. I came here with a great mission to execute my Spiritual Master’s order but my heart is stabbing me. Of course, I’m not afraid of Maya, I know Maya cannot touch me, but still if I die in this condition, my mission will remain unfulfilled. Please therefore pray to Prabhu Lord Chaitanya and Vrin- daban Bihar, to rescue me this time, my mission is still not finished. I wish to live for a few more days. They’re prepared to call an experienced Ayur Vedic physician who treats such diseases but I’ve not al- lowed the boys. But if necessary, if you can give me an expert physician who can travel here we can send necessary money for his coming here or arrange for air ticket. You can consult the man in charge of Dacca Shakti. At last I may inform you that I am in- clined toward Ayur Vedic treatment. You can consult the Ayur Vedic physician in Vrindaban who is a Goudiya Vaishnava. He knows me very well. He sells my books also. Two things are to be done if it is possi- ble: to send me proper medicines and di- rections, that will be nice. But if I require to return that also I can do. Please try to reply as soon as possible in English be- cause my students cannot read Hindi. So long as I’m in bed it’s not possible to read letters. You can treat this letter very ur- gently. Consult necessaryphysicians and let me know what I am to do. In Mathura there are undoubtedly many Ayurvedic physicians and many quacks also. Try to avoid the quacks. I would have returned to India immediately but the doctors say it is risky. If need be, I shall return as soon as I get strength to take the strain of the jour- ney. I repeat my symptoms so that you can take necessary care. All of a sudden I de- veloped some throbbing between the heart and stomach about 4 days ago. It was so exhaustive, it was like fainting—then I consulted a doctor who came and gave me medicine but it was of no good effect therefore my students at once transferred me to the hospital where they’re spending more or less 400 rupees daily. There is no 178 Letters from Srila Prabhupada question of neglect. All scientific treat- ment is going on. But I think Ayur Vedic medicine will be proper. Therefore I re- quest you to take immediate steps and re- ply me. I hope this letter will convince you of the actual position. While reading this let- ter you may consult some friend who knows English very well so that he’ll read it correctly and reply correctly. There is no scope for corresponding in Bengali or in Hindi. Yours Sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Stephen Guarino Secretary, ISKCON for Swami A.C. Bhaktivedanta New York Sth June, 1967 67-6-2 My dear Kushna dasi, Subal das, Lilavati dasi, Yamuna dasi, Jayananda das, Upendra das, Malati dasi, Guru das, Samsunda das, Haridas, Makunda das, Janaki, Aunt Edna Howell, My dear boys and girls I am so much obliged to you for your prayers to Krishna to save my life. Due to your sincere and ardent prayer, Krishna has saved my life. I was to die on Tuesday certainly but be- cause you prayed sincerely I am saved. Now I am improving gradually and com- ing to original condition. Now I can hope to meet you again and chant with you, Hare Krishna. Iamso glad to receive the report of your progressive march and I hope there will be no difficulty in your un- derstanding Krishna Consciousness. My blessings are always with you and with confidence you go on with your chanting Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-3 New York 6th June, 1947 My dear Mukunda, The record which you have sent sing- ing Sri Ram, Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, and other Kirtans is really a new turn and we have enjoyed the record so nicely. This Narada Muni song is in your country tune and I think it will attract many more of common man to join the Kirtan so you should practice this standard Kirtan more conveniently so that during your Rathaya- tra festival you can have this singing with the procession. Please inform all the devotees, boys and girls, especially Janaki devi, that Iam progressing well. As soon as I get a little strength for travelling I shall come to San Francisco. In the meantime I shall be very glad to know what arrangements you are going to do for the Rathayatra festival. Make it a grand procession and unique in- troduction in the United States. Please inform Upendra that I have very much appreciated his letter of service atti- tude. This service attitude is a great asset of revelation in Krishna Consciousness. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Also inform Jayananda I have re- ceived his letter and the difficulties of life may come as seasonal changes but we should not be disturbed by all those diffi- culties. Our process is to chant and that process will gradually clear everything in due course. There is nothing to be disrupted—you should go on with your work with enthusiasm and everything will JUNE, 1967 179 be solved. We are on the sound footing of Krishna Consciousness. New York 7th June, 1967 67-6-4 Montreal My dear boys and Haimavati, I have duly received your kind letters and it was so pleasing to me that you are all sincere souls in Krishna Conscious- ness. I am making progress very nicely and tomorrow I shall be discharged from the hospital, to go to New Jersey to take rest for a fortnight in front of the natural sea. The basic principle of Krishna Con- sciousness is to receive one and all as our Master, and serve them with prasadam as diet and Krishna Kirtan as medicine for being free from materially diseased con- dition. So we shall follow this principle and Krishna will help us on our onward march. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-5 New York 9th June, 1967 Dear Mukunda, With reference to our telephone con- versation, I beg to enclose herewith three photo-offset copies of certificates. I have come to the seashore in N.J. and am progressing well. Today I have taken a shower bath by myself for the first time since getting ill. I am enclosing two offset copies, one from N.Y.U. and one from Slippery Rock State College, also one from Saint Fidelis College and Seminary. So far my certifi- cates are concerned, if the originals are required I can send them, but I hope that these offset duplicates are as good as the original and I hope you will make proper use of them. Most probably I may be able to come to S.F. by the 25th of this month. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ACB: kdb Enclosures 6 67-6-6 New York 9th June, 1967 My dear Nandararni, I am very glad to receive your recent letter. I am also glad to inform you that I am improving my health by the Grace of Krishna. I don’t believe in medicine or doctors, but I am practically perceiving that the massaging is helping me beyond expectation. Today I have taken a shower bath by myself, and I am reciting from Srimid Bhagwatam, and am enjoying the seashore here in N. J. I believe that within a fortnight I shall recoup my health suffi- ciently and be able to start for San Fran- cisco and meet you all there. I am also glad to learn that you have a child within your womb, and please ac- cept all my blessings for the newcomer for whom we shall be very glad to receive just after a few months. Please take care of your health so that the child may grow very healthy and become Krishna Con- scious. Prahlad Maharaj was in the womb of his mother and heard the instruction of Narada Muni and later on he became the most famous devotee of Lord Krishna. It is the duty of all parents to make every child Krishna Conscious, so that the for- tunate child born of Krishna Conscious parents may not have any more to take birth in this material world. Thank you for the very fine leaf. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ACB:kdb 180 Letters from Srila Prabhu pada 67-6-7 New York 9th June, 1967 S.B & K.Renovich 4909 Norfolk St. Burnaby 2, B.C. Canada My dear Mr. and Mrs. Renovich: I thank you very much for your letter of 3rd June 1967. I have noted the contents carefully, and I am glad that you are read- ing my god-brother’s book (Raghava Chaitanya Das). You are correct in your conclusion that “Hari-Nama” is the only means for spiritual realization in this age. Swami Bon Maharaj is also my God- brother, and under the discipline of our Spiritual Master we were all trained up for preaching this gospel of chanting the Holy Name, and I am trying to do my bit in these western countries; and by Krishna’s Grace people are receiving the mantra with great interest. In our three branches, (New York, San Francisco, and Montreal), this new line of spiritual realization is being received with enthusiasm. Last Sunday there was a mmeting in the Tompkins Square Park and thousands of people participated. I was seriously ill for the last few days, so that I could not attend the meeting, but I sent a message through my disciple, and when the message was read it was re- ceived with great applause. I wish to open a similar branch in Van- couver with your cooperation. If you are serious about it, then you arrange for our reception, and I may go there with some of my disciples. The Indians in Montreal are taking’ a great interest in our temple, and similarly we may expect that when there is a temple in Vancouver all the Indi- ans will take an interest. One of my chief disciples, Sriman Kirtananda, has very nicely organized the Montreal center, and on hearing from you either myself or Kir- tananda may go to your place. This Samkirtan movemement is so natural and nice; we had a very good experience at Stanford Universtiy where all the students joined with us and danced with us. I am enclosing one press report and hope you enjoy it. Yours sincerely, 67-6-8 New York 9th June, 1967 My dear Mr. Taber, I thank you very much for your letter and I have noted the contents carefully. You will be glad to know that I am improv- ing my health gradually and today I took a shower bath by myself here at the sea- shore in N.J. Probably I will have re- gained my strength sufficiently by the 25th of this month to come to San Fran- cisco, but if I do not go at that time, then I shall advice you to come to New York. So far as your distress is concerned, it is not new: it is the general condition of living entities who are distressed for want of sense gratification. Unless one is re- lated with Sri Krishna, The Reservior of All Pleasures, it is very difficult to have complete pleasures perception in this ma- terial world. You have read Bhagavad Gita and it is stated that ultimate happiness can be realized by transcendental senses only. Our movement for Krishna Conscious- ness is to turn the present polluted senses into its original pure form, just like when a man cannot see properly due to cataracts in the eyeball, similarly we cannot have real sense pleasure without being purified in Krishna Consciousness. This purifica- tion can be done only by engaging the senses for Krishna. Krishna is called Hri- sikesh, or the Master of the Senses. His senses are omnipotent; therefore, when our senses will be engaged to satisfy the senses of Krishna, at that time we will have perfect sense gratification, and be JUNE, 1967 181 free of all distressed condition. A spirit soul is not impersonal, and be- cause he is a person he has the latent de- sire for sense gratification; but in the material condition he does not know how to enjoy; therefore one should purify the senses being free of all material disigna- tion. In conditioned stage we are desig- nated souls like ‘American,’ ‘Indian,’ “dog,” “demi-god,” etc., but in pure con- sciousness or Krishna Consciousness, we are part and parcel of the Supreme Brah- man. By Brahman realization, as you may have read in Bhagavad Gita: Brahmabhuta prasannaatma na sochati na kankshati. So in our pure stage when we understand that we are eternal servants of Krishna there is no more distress. Therefore the devotee prays: “My Lord, when shall I be freed from all material desires and be completely engaged in your transcenden- tal loving service. At the present moment I am forlorn and nobody is my master. When shall I have You as my Supreme Master; then shall I joyfully wander over the whole universe knowing that You are my master.” Please therefore try to be in Krishna Consciousness and there will be no distress. Gradually as you realize this, you will experience it also; but the pro- cess is the same, both at the beginning and at the end. Hope you are well. Your sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami ACB:kdb 67-6-9 New York 10th June, 1967 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Although Iam practically on the path of death, still I cannot forget about my publications. I wish that if I live or die you should take very serious care for my publications. Im- mediately I want to send Geetopanisad to Japan for publication. The complete fair copy of Geetopanishad has to be submit- ted. I hope you havecompleted fair copies of at least seven chapters. The balance are typed from the dictaphone, and there does not appear to be any possibility of their being edited here, so I think you have to do it. After sending fair copies of what you have done already you will have to edit the dictaphone copies. The original verse (sanscrit) is to be taken from Dr. Radha- krishnan’s edition, and the word to word English equivalent, as well as the transla- tion and purport is to be found already on the dictaphone copies. The only thing you have to do is to place them properly and to make the complete fair copy. Iam thinking of going to San Francisco just after getting some strength, which I hope I will get by the end of the month; but in case I cannot go, you have to do it care- fully, and send it to Japan. Please, there- fore, let me know whether you’ll do it. If you say yes, then I will send you the dicta- phone copies for doing the needful. This will give me great relief, and I am expect- ing a reply as soon as possible. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-10 New York 10th June, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have already received my yesterday letter with enclosure of cirtificate of photostated copies. The original copies are lying in my room; they could not bring them, but if you think that the same cirtificates will serve our purpose, and the original are needful, then I will arrange to send them somehow or other. But you must ascertain whether that certificate will serve the pur- pose. I am a bonafide preacher in the line 182 Letters from Srila Prabhupada of Lord Chaitanya. There is no doubt about it. That is practically proved. The cirtificates are also there. Iam very much anxious to know if this will serve your purposes and a reply by return post will give me great relief. The idea is that if I get that permanent visa, then I shall settle things up in that way. I do not mind whether I am in the U.S.A. or Brindabin, because my life and soul is to preach Krishna Consciousness; but if you think those cirtificates are not sufficient for my permanent visa after consulting gentle- men like Mr. Dhar or others whom you are consulting, then I shall think of going back to India. But if I get the permanent visa,, even in my broken health I shall stay in U.S.A. and try to propagate my mission through my disciples like you, Hayagriva, Kirtanananda, and others. I don’t mind whether I die here or in Brindaban— wherever there is Krishna, that is Brinda- ban. So I shall be glad to hear from you the clear position about this. That will give me relief and new energy. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-11 Long Branch, New Jersey 14th June, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 10 1967. Yew it is due to your prayers that this time my life has been saved. Your ap- preciation of the movement is very keen and interesting. Actually I was also at- tracted by my Guru Maharaj when he con- vinced me that God lives and we can live with Him. I find the same conviction in you and it has given me so great pleasure. Yes, it is the greatest discovery. Human society under the spell of illusion is doing things, each on his own responsibility and they are becoming entangled in material existence. This is the greatest blunder in human society. They have not only forgot- ten God but they’ve declared openly that God id dead. This declaration of the fool- ish unman society is the greatest blunder in life. I therefore appreciate your convic- tion and I am still more glad that you are determined to progagate this message to the world at large. I am sure you can do this because all of you are determined to propagate this message to the world at large. Iam sure you can do this because all of you who have come to me are sin- cere sould and you have understood the in- ner force of Krishna Consciousness. Please try to propagate this new move- ment combinedly. I have already explained to Satsvarupa that for the present I may return to India and try to recoup my health as well as be- gin the American house there. I under- stand the attitude of Rabbi Newman is not very encouraging. So if I go to India and utilise the building fund there, it will be nice. If we spend there 10,000 dollars only we can have very nice accomoda- tions for training American youths in the matter of preaching work of Krishna Con- sciousness. We have tried our best to se- cure a house in N.Y. but so far we have failed and I think we can contunue our centers in rented houses without endeav- oring more for our mown house. Rather we may train up boys for preaching work and send them back to all the parts of the world to preach this gospel. After 6 months if I am fit I my come back again to wrok with you with renovated energy. So I shall like that. You, Satsvarupa and other members may discuss this point and come to some conclusion so that we can do the needufl when I return to New York. In the mean time you can make your decision. Even in my absence there will be no stop- page of activities, will go on nicely by reg- ular exchange of correspondence and there will be no difficulty. At last I may JUNE, 1967 183 inform you that if I get my permanent visa and if Rabbk Newman agrees to give us the house thenI may not return to India— that is my inner wish. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami New York 14th June, 1967 67-6-12 My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 12 1967 and I am glad that you are being as- sisted by an accountant friend. I quite ap- preciate your endeavor, and I think the process suggested by your friend in keep- ing account will save much of your time. I’m glad that you are figuring trial balance every day. This is very nice. I shall be glad to see one of such trial balance—how you are doing. So far my health is concerned, I am improving daily, but due to my weakness sometimes I feel dizzyness. Your prayer and all other boys’ prayers has saved me and I hope to render some service to you all for some more years. Please pray to Krishna and He will give us strength and energy in every respect. Thanking you once more. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-13 New York 26th June, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 20, 1967. Although I am passing through critical stages of my health, still good re- ports from San Francisco, Montreal, and New York are giving me life. I understand that the cirtificate which you were to re- ceive by registered post was dispatched from Calcutta on 2 May by ordinary mail, and it might be missing; so I have asked Tirtha Maharaj to send another to your ad- dress. The copy of the letter addressed to Tirtha Maharaj is enclosed. Please look for the mail. I hope the cirtificates which you have already are sufficient; but still, this cirtificate from Tirtha Maharij will be more valuable. I have fixed up to start for San Fran- cisco on the 5th July, and the rest remains on Krishna. Hope you are all doing well. Offer my blessings to Srimati Janaki Devi. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami encl. 1. 67-6-14 27th June, 1967 My dear Shri Krishan Pandit, Kindly accept my greetings. Iam very much thankful to you for your letter dated June 15, 1967. Your prayers to Lord Krishna are heard by the Lord, and by His Grace I’m getting improved in health day by day. Your suggestion to return to India is welcome. As soon as I get a little strength I must return to India. I also thank your son-in-law, Yog Raj Sharma, for his suggestion. As you have not received the gra- maphone record as yet, I guess it has been taken away by somebody. Therefore, I have advised my students to send another one by registerd post. With that record was a check for Rs/50. (check no. 0055447, dated April 15, 1967) in your favor, so you go to the Bank of Baroda, Chandnichawk, Delhi, and stop the pay- ment by showing this letter, and upon hearing from you I shall arrange for send- ing you cashfromhere. Your former letter was properly replied from here. I request 184 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda you to see Messrs. S.S. Brijbasse Co. at Fatehpuri. We sent them an order for pic- tures and $100., but they are silent. Kindly enquire what is the fate of the money and the order. My blessings for your wife and chil- dren. Hope you are well, and thanking you once again. Yours affectionately, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-6-15 27th June, 1967 Madame Sumati Morar jee Baisaheva: I thank you very much for your letter dated June 20, 1967. Asstatedby you, my missionary work is really a great chal- lenge to the western way of life. But Krishna is so attractive that He is accepted even by the Westerners when the con- sciousness is presented in the right disci- plic succession. The challenge is to the maya, or in other words it is a fight with the maya, and I may inform you that the maya has given me a great stroke very re- cently. Due to my incessant hard work for the last two years, my health has been shattered. On the 25th May I had a heavy stroke between the heart and stomach. The boys here took all cares possible, and I am getting well day by day. At present I am on the seashore in New Jersey for re- couping my health, but I am thinking of going back to India as soon as I get suffi- cient strength. I am now considerably old; I will be 72 years next September. But the work which I have begun in the western world is not yet finished, and I require to train some of the American boys to preach this cult all over the western world. So if I return to India I will have to take with me some of the boys for training. They are all nice boys to take up the training. So your cooperation in this connection is greatly needed. You have already allowed my men from India free passage; similarly, if you allow free passage for some of my American disciples they can come to In- dia and take training from me at Vrinda- ban. The idea is that in this old ageI do not know when death will overcome me, and I wish to die in the last days of my life at Vrindaban. If you kindly, therefore, coop- erate with my mission of spreading Krishna Consciousness in the western world, then I wish to return to Vrindaban. I hope you will kindly grant this request. Back To Godhead is becoming gradu- ally very popular in this country, and we are improving the quality of the printing etc. by the next issue, which you will shortly receive. The present circulation is ea. 1,500 and I expect it to increase to 5,000 by the next 2-5 months. People in this country are thinking seriously about this Krishna Consciousness idea and I hope very soon Back to Godhead will be a very popular magazine. If you give me some advertisement it will be a great asset to the publication, and we will be glad to print it free of charge. Hope you are well. 67-6-16 New York 28th June, 1967 My dear Janardan, Hamsadutta, Himavati, and Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. While on my sick bed I was so much encouraged by your successful carrying on the Montreal Branch even in spite of the absence of Kir- tanananda. There is a verse in the Bha- gavadgita tenth chapter that anyone who serves the Lord sincerely with love and af- fection is certainly instructed by the Lord from within. The Lord helps us in two ways: internally as paramatman, and ex- ternally as Spiritual Master. So I think JUNE, 1967 185 your sincere activities are being appreci- ated by the Lord from within and He is dictating you all for advancement of Krishna Consciousness. I hopethat I may be able to go to San Francisco on July Sth, and from there if I get my permanent visa I shall go to Vancouver where there is every possibility of opening a new branch. There is a friend who is prepared to coop- erate, and I understand that there are many Indians also. From Vancouver I may come to Montreal, perform the open- ing ceremony of installation of Radha- Krishna Vigraha. Then I may go back to India for six months, as there is a program for construction of an American house for training preachers at Vrindaban. Vrinda- ban is the only solitary transcendental abode within this universe where Krishna Consciousness automatically reveals. Therefore I have a great hope to train some of my disciples for preaching work, even in my absence. I am now old man, and attacked with serious disease; I may be overcome by death at any moment. Therefore I wish to leave some trained preachers so that they can do the work of Krishna Consciousness in the western world. That is my ambition. I hope you all pray to Krishna so I may be able to execute my duty properly. Thanking you all for your nice ad- vancement. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JULY Stinson Beach, California 11th July, 1967 67-7-1 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope things are going on in New York very nicely, but I have not heard from you since coming here. On the plane I had no incon- venience, and I ate all the puries brought by Kirtananada. Sometimes on the way there was little jerking (air pockets) and I got little nervous. Anyway I got down safely and was received by the anxious devotees here. Jayananda in a nicecar brought me to the house, which is situated in an exceptionally nice spot, and the- house itself is aristocratic. So there is nothing to complain about the house and place. The only difficulty is that I cannot go to the temple on accout of the zig-zag course of the road in crossing the moun- tains. Anyway, the devotees are coming here, and the Rathayatra Festival was per- formed with great pomp. More than 500 people followed theprocession to the beach, and there were about two dozen cars. They distributed thousands of cho- paties, and at last Shri Jaggannath, Sub- hudra, and Balledev kindly came here in our house and will stay here for one week and then return. So for my health is concerned, on the whole it is nice, but sometimes I feel not so good. Everything depends on Krishna, and as He desires it will happen. Dwarkadisha hasinformed me you have received one letter from the Japanese printers. I am very anxious to see the let- ters. You can direct my mail to: ACB “Bodes Paradisio” Alameda Patio Stinson Beach, Calif. I shall be glad to hear from you. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-2 20th July, 1967 Madam Sumati Morar ji Baishaheba, Please accept my greetings and all blessings of Lord Krishna. I am in due re- ceipt of your letter of July 12, 1967. I have advised my disciples to Publish your ad- vertisement in the Back to Godhead free of charges. I am feeling too much to return to Vrindaban at the lotus feet Vrindaban Be- hary Lord Krishna; and therefore I have decided to return to India immediately. I would have liked to return via sea, as you have so kindly offered me passage in your letter, but in my precarious state of health that is not possible. So by the mercy of Krishna and through one friend here, somehow or other, I have received air pas- sage, and I am expecting to leave here for New Delhi on Saturday next, reaching Pa- lam Airport on the 24th instant at 7:30 a.m. From there I shall proceed to Vrin- daban after a few days rest in Delhi. I can understand that at present you cannot allow free passage to my disciples. But if you don’t do so, at least in the near future, then my mission will be half fin- ished or failure. I am just enclosing one 188 Letters from Srila Prabhupada letter of appreciation for one of my princi- pal students (Bruce Scharf) from Profes- sor Davis Herron, and another letter from Professor Roberts of New York Univer- sity. I think these letters will convince you how much my movement of Krishna Con- sciousness is taking ground in the western world. The Holy Name of Hare Krishna is now being chanted not only in this country but also in England, Holland and Mexico, that I know of. It may be even more wide- spread. I have sent you one gramophone record which I hope you may have re- ceived by this time. You will enjoy to learn how Krishna’s Holy Name is being appre- ciated by the Western World. Therefore it is a need that this move- ment must be spread all over this country. It is glorious for India and glorious for Hindu Religion. Please therefore fully co- operate with me. For the present, at least two of my disciples must come to India to assist me there both for the sake of my health and for the editorial work of Sri- mad Bhagawatam. I request you therefore instead of free passage to me, please allow one of my chief disciples, Sriman Haya- griva Brahmachary, (Mr. Howard Wheel- er M.A.), free passage to India and an- other disciple, who takes my personal care, half-fare. For future you may con- sider later on. The whole idea is that due to my indif- ferent health in this old age, it may be that I may not come back again. But I must train up at Vrindaban some of my disci- ples. I can very well spread up this mis- sionary work without any personal transfer. Please therefore cooperate with me as far as possible for Krishna’s sake. You will be glad to learn that centers at the following places are going in full swing: (1) New York; (2) Montreat, Canada; (3) San Francsico; and the fol- lowing centers are going to be opened at the following places within the next sev- eral months: (1) Boston; (2) Washington, D.C. (3) Vancouver, Canada; (4) Los Angeles; and (5) New Mexico (Santa Fe). Some of my friends in India are send- ing Sri Murtis (Radha-Krishna), and we are getting locally sculpted Jagannath, Balavadra, and Subhadra Mutrtis to install in the temples. The societies are being worshipped with flowers and fruits, and Kirtan is being performed both morning and evening, and Srimad Bhagavatam is being recited. Don’t you think that this movement is glorious both for India and the world? Kindly, therefore cooperate with me in full heart. I shall anxiously await your reply, which please address to: A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami c/o His Holiness B. V. Narayan Maharaj Keshavji Goudiya Math P.O. Mathura U.P. Copy may also be sent to New York. Thanking you once again. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-3 New York 21st July, 1967 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I have ar- ranged to start for India tomorrow by Air India, and Kirtanananda is accompaning me. Krishna willing, we shall reach Delhi next Monday morning. I am trying for your free passage, and have written another letter to the manag- ing director of Scindia Co., and I hope it will be successful. When you come to India, you’ll take my trunk and whatever packages I leave labelled in my room. Also, you should take either the tape recorder I have here, JULY, 1967 189 or one which Mr. Kallman will supply. Fi- nally, there is the big Royal typewriter, which you must pack nicely and bring. I shall let you know my arrival news from India. Hope this will find you all right. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami New York 22nd July, 1967 67-7-4 My dear Dayananda, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to read your letter of appreciation for my services, and I can understand that you are making good strides in Krishna Consciousness. May Krishna bless you more and more so that your ambition to preach Krishna Consciousness may be successfully carried out. Both you and your wife, Nandarani, are very intelli- gent, and I have several times received her letters, and she is also making very good progress. It is the Grace of Lord Krishna that He has put me in contact with so many rare souls who are taking Krishna Consciousness in all seriousness, and I am confident that in the future all my stu- dent boys and girls will preach this Krishna Consciousness in the western world more successfully. Due to my indifferent health, for the time being I am going to India; and even if I cannot come back, I will work for an American house there so all you transcen- dental children can come there and learn and be strong enough to preach this cult for the benefit of all the human society. I thank you very much for your appre- ciation. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-5 New York 22nd July, 1967 My dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I have read with great interest the copy of your letter, and I am so glad to learn that you are feel- ing more and more Krishna Conscious. So far the stories are concerned, the Vedic literatures are full of instructive stories for the spiritual advancement of the human society. Because the less intelligent class of men, like women, mercantile people, and laborers, want to hear stories, for them the Vedic idea or concept was ex- plained in 18 Puranas and the Ma- habharata. If I get good assistance I can overflood your country with stories so nice and instructive. I wish that-after finishing your M.A. exams that you be fixed up and come for some time to Vrindaban in my personal touch. In the meantime, just go on orga- nizing your Montreal center, and the In- dian gentleman, Professor Dwivdi may be induced to take a more substantial interest in the temple. When I come back, I shall install Radha-Krishna Murti in the tem- ple, and I hope it will be a great center for the society and for both Canada and the Indian community. I am leaving this evening with Kir- tanananda, and shall write you on arrival. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami London 24th July, 1967 67-7-6 My dear Brahmananda, Accept my blessings. I am always thinking of your separation feelings. Please do your duty nicely and Krishna will help you in all respects. We are de- layed here for 16 hours. Starting this morning at nine for Delhi. The attention 190 Letters from Srila Prabhupada of Mr. B.K. Nehru the Ambassador of In- dia was drawn to me the other day. I have told him about my permanent Visa and he has promised to help me when I come back. Please make an appointment with him informing that I wish to present him our set of Bhagavatam and our other lit- eratures. Then go to him and personally present the booksetc. at Washington D.C. It may be that as soon as I feel some strength I shall be coming back. Up to now there was no disturbance about my health and I hope to reach Delhi this night. I shall write you again after reaching Vrindaban. Convey my ardent affection and blessings for all the boys and girls. I am very much hopeful of my movement. Please keep steady, follow all my instruc- tions scroupulously, chant Hare Krishna and Krishna will give you all strength. Hope you are all doing well. I am Yours ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-7 Vrindaban 26th July, 1967 Dear ‘“‘children’’ at New York, Please accept my blessings. We had a very nice plane ride here to New Delhi, although it took somewhat longer than we had anticipated. We arrived in London on schedule Sunday morning, and Kir- tanananda gave me a massage, and then I took shower bath and rested until after- noon. We boarded the plane for Moscow and no more than we got in our seats, when it was announced that due “‘to health regulation” there would be a short delay— the delay, however, turned out to be some 16 hours. It seem that someone on the plane when it came into London had small pox, so the planne was quarantined until it could be thoroughly fumigated. So they put us up for the night in the “‘Excelsor”’ Hotel, which was something like a dream palace, complete with air conditioning, TV, Hi-Fi, swiming pool and everything else. We had a nice meal and slept very nicely. We boarded the plane for the sec- ond time the next morning at nine a.m. and took off for Moscow shortly thereaf- ter, and arrived at that bastion of propa- ganda about three hours later. We had an hour stop there, so we got off the plane just to take a walk. We were met by a “friendly guard” and informed that they would keep our passport until we returned to the plane, and then ‘“‘guided”’ down the corridor to the terminal. Unlike London or New York, there was no hustle or bustle at the terminal, nor were there many people—and it was very quiet! The only remarkable features were the propa- ganada pictures and the many racks of free books and literatures. We were glad to get back on the plane and start for Delhi. The flight from Moscow to Delhi took about 8 hours, and when we arrived it was about midnight local time, and when we stepped out of the plane I KNEW IT WAS INDIA! It was like walking into a solid wall of HEAT. But that’s what I’ve been wanting, and it felt good to me. Some friends were there to meet us, so af- ter clearing customs we drove into town, where we stayed (and are presently) at a Radha Krishna Temple near Kashmiri Gate. Today I have consulted with two Ayur Vedic physians, one of whom is famous in these quarters, and they conclude that my trouble is with my heart, but that all dan- ger is past, and that I will be just fine, pro- vided I follow simple regulative measures with my diet and work. I also have been given some medicine, so we shall see how Krishna desires. Tomorrow, Krishna willing, we will go to Vrindaban, where you can send mail to me. JULY, 1967 191 I have played the record a number of times here, and when they hear it they think it is wonderful. I am very anxious— even more than ever—for our American House in Vrindaban. I always said that if I could get the American boys and girls to take up this movement the rest of the world would join. Now my theory is being proved. So now I am depending on you all to carry on this great mission in my ab- sense; chant and hear, and Krishna will bless you. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-8 Vrindaban 29th July, 1967 Messrs Atmaram and Sons English Department Kashmiri Gate Delhi 6. Att: Sri Ishkumar Dear Sir: I beg to inform you that I have come back from the U.S.A. in an unwell condi- tion; therefore I cannot come to see you personally at the present time. But I re- quest you to send me a statement of ac- count at my Vrindaban address listed above. Furthermore, I request you not to pay anything more to Chandra Shekhar. Please send the check crossed account payee. Thanking you. Sincerely yours, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-7-9 My dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 7, 1967, and as you are very mcuh eagar to see me stronger, similarly I am also very much eager to regain my former health and serve you all. On thewhole I am get- ting strength little by little, and I hope very soon I shall be able to work. My im- mediate program is to open some branches and go to Montreal to install the dieties. If my visa is not obtained by that time, I shall not wait for it, but shall go to Montreal and maybe I may return to India from there. When I return to India my am- bition is to construct an American House at Vrindaban and get some of you boys and girls there to train for our preaching work in this part of the world. After all, I am old man. There is no certainty of my life, and at any moment I can collapse and it will not be surprising. But I wish to leave some of my spiritual children who have so kindly joined me in faith andres- pectso that they may work, and this phi- losophy of Krishna Consciousness maybe broadcast all over the world. You are all educated, cultured, young boys and girls, and if you understand the philosophy it will be a great help for the suffering hu- manity. You haveasked me how many hours you should work. Our life is dedicated to Krishna, and you should work for Him 24 hours. We have different varities of service. For you, you should work on painting as long as you think yourself fit; don’t overwork. Balance time should be spent for chanting and reading S.B. So far remembering me and Krishna, it should be simultaneous. I am your Spiri- tual Father, and Krishna is your Spiritual Husband. A girl can never forget either her father or her husband. In the Shastras it is said that Spiritual advance of life is achieved thru the combined mercy of the Spiritual Master and Krishna. Those who are sincere souls, Krishna helps them to have a bonafide Spiritual Master, and the bonafide Spiritual Master helps 192 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the disciple to apprach Krishna. This is the process. I know you are a sincere devotee of Krishna and He will give you proper intelligence how to prosecute your present activities. I can simply pray to Krishna that He may bless you with all energy for serving Him. I am very much appreciative of your work, which you are doing for the society, and I wish you may continue to do like that. very much appreciative of your work, which you are doing for the society, and I wish you may continue to do like that. Iam Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami AUGUST 67-8-1 2nd August, 1967 San Francisco My dear Mukunda, I have not heard anything from you since I have come back to India. Vinod Kumar who was supposed to reach U.S.A. on visitor’s Visa is not granted the same. Please see if it is possi- ble for him to get Immigration Visa. The forms are sent herewith please do the needful & let me know the result. I am awaiting to hear from you at an early date. Improving gradually. My Blessings for all & Janki. Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-2 Vrindaban 2nd August, 1967 My dear Students, Please accept my blessings. I am al- ways thinking of you, and I am feeling separation. I wish to return at the earliest opportunity. I cannot stop my western world activities and I have taken leave from you for only six months; and it may be that on or before I will come to you again. So continue your activities with great vigor. I shall always pray to Krishna for your steady advance, but try to follow the principles which are necessary to strengthen oneself in the matter of spiri- tual advance. Never think that I am absent from you. Physical presence is not essen- tial; presence by message (or hearing) is real touch. Lord Krishna is present by His message which was delivered 5,000 years ago. We feel always the presence of our past Acharyas simply by their immutable instructions. I hope you will understand me right and do the needful. Kir- tanananda says from my bodily feature that I am improving; I am also feeling like that. My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. In contin- uation of yesterday’s letter signed by Kir- tanananda, I may further inform you that the MacMillan contract is very important. I have already confirmed the terms, and you are herewith authorized to sign on my behalf. If the contract is bonafide, then there is no need of printing the books at my responsibility either in Japan or in In- dia. I shall be satisfied with the commis- sion and shall only be glad to see that the books are being read by hundreds and thousands of men. Whatever profit may be derived from it will be utilized for de- velopment of the American House here. I would have been very glad if Hayagriva, yourself, and Rayarama, along with Kir- tanananda, would have been present com- binedly and give a start to the American House. Negotiations for the plot of land is going on and as soon as it is settled we shall begin the work. Kirtanananda is feeling the warmth of the city a little tedi- ously. For me this warmth is little bracy. Anyway, you try to fructify this contract and it will be a great relief to me. We have already written to Hayagriva to return to N.Y- and deliver the mass. copy over to McMillan; the balance part of Geeto- panishad which is being edited should be 194 Letters from Srila Prabhupada finished as soon as possible; and whe- reever necessary he may consult me by mail. The first three vols. of S.B., com- pleting the first canto, may be published in one vol. without the sanscrit, i.e. only translation and purport. Similarly we can publish the second canto in one vol., and so on, one vol. per canto. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 67-8-3 Vrindaban 3rd August, 1967 My dear Murari Das, I am so glad to see your letter dated 7- 19-67. Both Kirtanananda and myself reached safely on 14 July at Midnight, af- ter undergoing customs etc., we took shelter at our temple in Delhi at about 3:00 a.m. Still we could not sleep all night. Due to that, I became indisposed and was obliged to stay there for three or four extra days. Ihave now come to Vrin- daban on the 31st., and am staying at the Radha Damodar Temple. You have in- quired about the import of Murari Das: Murari is another name for Krishna; therefore one who is pledged to become the servant of Krishna is called Murari Das. I am so glad you are playing music for Krishna. It is a great service of your talent. Anyone’s special talent should be engaged in the service of the Lord, and thereby becomes successful in his life. I think that you can go on playing on your guitar and make it successful for Krishna kirtan. You do not require to learn freshly about sitar. We are not meant for learning something new for the service of the Lord; but we have to engage whatever talents we have already got. Our life is short but any type of education is great and long; so the best part of valor is to utilize properly whatever qualifications we have got for the service of the Lord. If you think still that you wanta sitar, I will reqeust you to make correspondence with Messrs Dwarkin and Sons, Esplanade Calcutta. Please convey my blessing to Lilavati, who is so sincere in the service of the Lord. Hare Krishna! Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Mukunda, Yesterday I have sent you a personal note on the request of Vinod Kumar. If immigration Visa’s burdensome for the Society, Then don’ttake the risk. I think to get immigration Visa is very difficult and therefore you may not unnecessarily in- volve the society in it. We cannot pay him any salary at the present moment or unless we see his talents, I shall let you know later on more about it. Hope you are well. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Vrindaban 4th August, 1967 67-8-4 New York My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 8/3/67. Don’t be afraid of my being attacked by maya. When there is fight between two belligerent parties, it is always expected that there will sometimes be reverses. Your country and the western world is mostly under the grip of Maya and the modes of nature in passion and ignorance, and my declaration of war against the maya is certainly a great battle. Maya saw me very successful within one year, so that I got so many sincere young flowers like yourself and others, so it was a great defeat to the activities of maya: western country youngsters giving up illicit sex, intoxication, meat eating and gambling is certainly a great reverse in the activities of maya. Therefore she took advantage of my old age weakness and gave me a death AUGUST, 1967 195 dash. But Krishna saved me; therefore we should thank more Krishna than eulogize maya. So far my present health is con- cerned I think I am improving; atleast I am taking my lunch better than in N.Y. So as soon as I am a little fit to return to the field of battle I shall again be in your midst. Regarding your question about Lord Chaitanya’s thinking himself lower than the grass, it should be understood spiritu- ally. The dimension of the spirit soul is 1/10,000 part of the hair tip; so the spirit soul is certainly smaller than the grass. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was teaching us as a teacher, so he represented himself as an ordinary living entity; but as the Supreme Brahman he is greater than anything. I am glad that you had a demonstration of kirtan at the home of the Consul Gen- eral. Whenever you meet you should strictly speak the Truth without any con- sideration of future material gains. If we are sincere servants of Krishna, our mate- rial necessities will never be hampered. But I was anxiously awaiting your reply about your meeting the Ambassador, Mr. B.K. Nehru, with my books. After your presentation of the books and personally seeing him and his reactions I shall begin correspondence with him. We need his help in so many ways. I am glad that Sri RadhaKrishna Murti etc. has arrived. For the present you can keep the murti packed. I am expecting to return within six months, as I told you; and maybe earlier, calculating on the present improvement. I have already instructed you that Gargamuni should get married. They should get a marriage certificate as soon as is possible. In the temple the ceremony should be observed by chanting Hare Krishna before the fire, offering the clari- fied butter with the word Saha, and the bride and groom should exchange their garlands before the Lord Krishna diety and promise not to be separated in life. They should know it that bodily relation between the husband and wife is second- ary; primary factor is that both should help one another in the matter of advance- ment of K.C. I sang this mantra at the airport: K, K, K, K, K, K, K, HAY (twice); K, K, K, K, K, K, Rakshaman; K, K, K, K, K, K, Pa- himam; Rama Ragava, Rama Ragava, Rama Ragava Rakshaman; K. Kesava, K. Keseva, K. Kesava, K. Kesave Pahimam. You have written nothing about Mac- Millan. Please let me know about this. Please send $30 from three centers, and also some stationery. I am sorry the old chariot broke down. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-5 Vrindaban 9th August, 1967 My dear Janardan, Pradyumna, and Sivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to inform you that we have safely reached India on the 25th July at midnight due to a sixteen hour delay in London. But I am glad to inform you that there was no bodily discomfort while traveling. Kir- tanananda and I stayed for a few days in Delhi and then came to Vrindaban on the first. I am undergoing the treatment of an ayurvedic physician celebrated to be the best there is in the area, and I think I am feeling a little better. Anyway, as soon as I am a little fit, I shall return to you by the Grace of Krishna. Janardan: I had some talks with my god-brother, Swami Bon, head of the In- stitute for Oriental Philosophy here, and there is possibility of good cooperation between ourselves. If you want to learn sanscrit, there is ample opportunity in this 196 Letters from Srila Prabhupada institute. We had some preliminary talks, and it is hopeful that Swami Bon can give us some land for our own building; but even so, arrangements can be made with existing facilities so there would be no dif- ficulty for the students who come here to study sanscrit and the goswami literature. I shall be glad to know about the activities in Montreal, and herewith you may finda note from Kirtanananda. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Vrindaban 15th August, 1967 67-8-6 My dear Hansaduta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 8/9/67, and I have noted the contents carefully, and I can see that you are a little disturbed in mind. Don’t be. Everything will be all right, by Krishna’s Grace; we are Krishna’s property, but now we are seated in these bodies of maya, so it is sure that from time to time there will be disturbances—just like I am experiencing now. So don’t worry about it, just go on chanting Hare Krishna and engage your energy for Krishna in the best way open to you. I am also very happy to learn that Hi- mavati is going to have a baby. A child is a rare gift given by Krishna, but at the same time a great responsibility; every parent has the responsibility to see that his child grows up K.C. I know thatyou understand this, and will always make Krishna the center of your home. Now as to what you should do: there are a number of courses of action open to you. First of all, you are a family man, and usually at this point a man must think about providing for his wife and child. So if you like you can take a job in N.Y. or elsewhere and settle as an ordinary house- holder, like Rupanuga and others; or, if you prefer, you can continue to work within the Temple, either at Montreal or wherever there is sufficient space to ac- comodate you. But you must think of your health. I had already noticed a deteriora- tion when I was in N.Y., and now you say it has gotten worse. That is not good, and you must correct it. So do the needful. Above all don’t be worried. Krishna will help you. If it is necessary to go to work in order to maintain you wife and family nicely, Krishna will give you all support necessary. At any rate, I shall be back by the end of October, and then everything will be all right. My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. In your last letter you asked how to celebrate Krishna’s and Radha’s birthday. As last year, on K’s with fasting up to midnight, and R’s fasting up to noon. Then feasting. Certainly those who take Krishna’s ad- vent as that of an ordinary man are great fools, but if one can simply understand the transcendental nature of this event as well as His disappearance, he becomes immediately liberated. So long as Hansaduta and Himavati re- main in N.Y. please see that they are well taken care of. There seems to be some dif- ficulty. I am a little disturbed to learn about your financial position as serious. I think you don’t have to pay anything to Boston, as every center should be independent, es- pecially when Satsvarupa and Rayarama are there. If printing BTG is too expen- sive, then revert to mimeograph. Unless positive gain, we should not take risk about BTG. You will be glad to know that AUGUST, 1967 197 for the last two days I am taking part in the cooking; so this is positive proof of im- provement in my health. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Vrindaban 22nd August, 1967 67-8-7 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 8/15/67, as well as the one to Kir- tanananda. It is very good news for me that you are going to have $5300 very soon, and I thank you very much for offer- ing the entire amount to me. I think the whole amount should be utilized for fur- ther publication of my books. I am very much anxious to know if any arrangement has been made with McMillan. If not, then either we have to print the books here in India or in Japan. Please therefore let me know what is the fate of the contract. I am also anxious to know if you saw per- sonally the Ambassador Mr. B.K. Nehru with my books. These things are very im- portant for our future. Regarding my health, everyone says that I am much im- proved, and I also feel that way, except that I’m not in normal condition of move- ment, but the doctor says that that is mainly due to the heat, not my heart. So far my eating is concerned, I am doing it with more relish than N. Y. If the improve- ment goes on at the present rate, I think I shall be able to return by the end of Octo- ber. Here in Vrindaban I have secured full cooperation of my god-brother Swami Bon, and he has very kindly offered me full tuition, room, boarding, etc., for at- least ten students among my disciples, who may come for further study in the matter of K.C., as enunciated by the au- thorized Goswamis, who are direct disci- ples of Lord Chaitanya. So immediately, if some of you come here for such studies, there will be no difficult; but at the same time I am also trying to have our own house, and probably it will be done. Regaring Gargamuni’s marriage, I have already sanctioned it. Perhaps you did not receive the letters containing all instructions. I repeat: the bride and groom should sit before the Deity Lord Krishna or Jaggannath and you should ig- nite the fire to offer clarified butter; sim- ply chant Hare Krishna, all of you, and offer the butter to the fire with the-word SAHA. The bride and groom should ex- change their garlands, and the groom should promise never to forsake his wife, and the wife should promise to serve the husband for all her days. Then when there is opportunity, I shall further bless them personally. Rayarama wants $300 loan. So you can judge on the spot, and if possible try to help him. We received the fuses. Thank you. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter along with Brahmananda’s. Yes I am definitely im- proving, and I expect to return soon. In the meantime it has been decided by me to transform Kirtanananda into a Swami, and he may then go back to Montreal for improving the center, and for opening more centers in that country. He has no complaint now for his health, and I hope, by Krishna’s Grace, he will keep well here. Please give one painting to Yogi Denkar, and charge what you like. I am so satisfied with your service for the cause of Krishna Consciousness, and I shall sim- ply pray to Krishna for your good health, sound mind, and steady progress in the 198 Letters from Srila Prabhupada matter of K.C. Please offer my blessings to all the girls especially who are living with you. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter of 8/17/67, and have noted the contents. Krishna’s Jana- mashtmi ceremony may be celebrated in the same way as last year. I understand that Achyutananda is coming here on Janamashtmi Day, but I have received no word from him. Anyway, if he comes it will be a great joy for us. You will see in the letter to Brahamananda that any stu- dent who comes here for studying further in K.C. will have no difficulty for room, board, and tuition. It is a good opportu- nity for our students, and I shall be very glad to learn how many of you desire to come. In the meantime, I am trying to get other facilities for passage. Please give your primary attention for improving BTG, the backbone of our movement. Kirtanananda is going to be the first san- nyas among my disciples. I am improving gradually. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-8 24th August, 1967 Dear Gurdas, Please accept by blessings. I am so much pleased to receive your letter of 8/16/67, and it has given me much en- couragement for your being advanced in K.C. Sincere souls who are engaged in the service of Lord Krishna are bene- dicted by the Lord by revelation. Sri Krishna, His Name, Form, Entourage, Paraphernalia and Pastimes are not mate- rial; they are purely spiritual. Therefore, in the beginning they are not appreciated by our materially conditioned senses, but as we go on chanting Hare Krishna with service mood and attitude, the Name, Qualities, etc., become revealed as Re- ality. For the Unbeliever Krishna and His Name etc are fictitious, but those who are advanced in K.C. realize that K.C. is pure and eternal. I am very glad that you are gradually realizing these truths. I very much appre- ciate your attempt for a photo book of the Samkirtan movement. I have cent percent support for your noble attempt, and I am sure Hayagriva will be able to help you in this respect as he has so many facts at his disposal. I shall try to send some photo. I am pleased to learn that you are teaching Spanish people English to help the mission. And you are worthy to be- come V.P. of our S.F. branch. Regarding Yamuna, your wife, I’ve got a very great regard, because she is very sincere girl. I’m sure you should feel fortunate to have such a wife. Please offer my blessings to her, and always cooperate with your wife in the service of the Lord. You’ll be happy eternally. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-9 25th August, 1967 My dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I amin due receitp of your letters of the 15 and 16th inst., as well as the Janamashtme day cir- culat. I am so much pleased that every- thing is going on so nicely in Montreal, and that you are ever more actively en- gaged for Krishna, even in the absence of myself and Kirtanananda, It is a great credit to you, and I thank you for it. You should know that it is all due to your sin- cerety of heart; when we are sincere, AUGUST, 1967 199 Krishna will always help us, either in ex- ternal direction by the Spiritual Master, or internally by His paramatama expansion. The program you have decided on for the Lord’s Advent Day is nice. I also very much appreciate the work you are doing in trying to promote my books and record, and I am very glad to know that the new BTG is selling well. These publication are the backbone of our movement, and if we can distribute them sucessfully. then ev- erything will be all right. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-10 27th August, 1967 My dear Mrinaline, Please accept my blessings. I have your letter of 8.22, and thank you very much for it. I am so glsd thatyou have re- turned to Krishna. Krishna is kind that He does not let us go, anyone who sincerely takes toHim. And therefore you do not wish to leave Him anymore. This decision will lead you to your eternal life of bliss and knowledge. Certainly in your past life you must have had been a devotee of the Lord, otherwise you wouldn’t have felt like becoming a nun at such a young age. Anyone who has a natural tendency for re- jecting sense-gratification is considered to be advanced or liberated in spiritual life. Your appreciation of Maya as false and Krishna as the only reality is a great asset. Nobody has evergained anything by becoming a tool in the hands of Maya, but everyone has become eternally happy by serving Krishna. The feeling which you had by becom- ing compassionate to the fallen bum is very good, but the best way to deliver a bum is to revive his dormant Krishna Consciousness. If you can do that then give the bums good food and shelter. If you cannot do that, then simple supplying food and shelter, is serving the Maya. But there is no benefit to serving Maya, you know, as it is all false, temporary or illusion. We are concerned with Reality, not Maya, and that should be the object of life. Iam very glad to learn that many of my devotees are coming to India. Students who will come here for studying Krishna philosophy as scholar and devotee will have ample opportunity. My god-brother Swami B.H. Bon, has agreed to give them free boarding, lodging and tuition, at least for ten students at a time. So they are wel- come. I am also trying for their conces- sion of passage as well as a permanent home in Vrindaban. Let us depend upon the Will of Krishna. Your letter is certainly full of sense, and a K.C. boy or girl cannot be “‘non- sense”. I am proud to have disciples like you, who think freely, but correct their mistakes by consulting me without any re- sevation. I am always feeling separation for you all. Let Krishna help us meet again. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Brahmanada, Please accept my blessings. Your nice letter of 8/18 in hand; your nice philoso- phy that Krishna takes and Krishna gives, is very nice. This means Krishna is not impersonal. He is the Supreme Person and fully reciprocates. The impersonalist can- not reciprocate. Krishna does not take anything from them, neither does He give them anything. The Impersonal, there- fore, simply enjoys the troubles of specu- lation. Ihave received news from Sante Fe that they have opened a nice branch there in an old castle, and it is very much pleas- ing to me. Now Kirtanananda Swami is 200 Letters from Srila Prabhupada going very soon to the U.S.A., and I ex- pect that all of you will combine together to open at least 108 centers before I laeve this world. I hope by this time you have seen Mr. Nehru; I am anxiously awaiting your report. I am also glad to learn that McMillan is going to publish our books, and are including Gita and Bhagwatam on thier spiring lists. So I shall not bother to arrange for printing in India. Please con- firm this. Iam going to Delhi next week (Sept 5), and may not be returning to Vrindaban, so please direct all mail from now onto P.O. Box 1846, D Delhi 6. The 10.00 dollars monthly contribution from each center will be a nice resource for development of the Vrindaban House. I am so much pleased to learnt that youare getting a car from a friend; now please take care of it carefully. Offer my blessings to all the devotees. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-11 27th August, 1967 My dear Jananivas, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to recieve your letter of 8/20, and glad to hear that everything is going so nicely at our newest center. It all sounds very beautiful, and I am very anxious to come to you personally. Perhaps in Octo- ber I shall go directly from here to San Francisco, and then to Santa Fe, before going to N.Y. About your question: The Spirit Soul is certainly eternal and changeless; and the fall is superficial, just like the relation between father and son cannot be broken ever. Now weare simply in a phase of forgetulness, and this forget- fulness is called Maya. There is a nice ex- ample in the waning of the moon. To use the moon appears to be chnaging, but in fact yhe moon is always the same. So as eternal servitors of Krishna—our consti- tutional position—we fall down when we try to becme the enjoyer, imitating Krishna. That is our downfall. Krishna is the Supreme Enjoyer, and we are constitu- tionally to be enjoyed by Him, and when we revive this constitutional positoon where is no more Maya . K.C. gives us the opportunity of rendering service to Krishna, and this service attitude only can replace us on our original position. Pleasem therefore, continure to chant faithfully, and Krishna will reveal Him- self, by His Causeless Mercy, and you will know everything automatically. I shall, of course always be ready and anxious to an- swer any question you have. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-12 27th August, 1967 My dear Subal das, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated 8/15, and pleased to read the contents. By Krishna’s Grace you have gotten a nice old castle, and converted into a K.C. temple. I am also pleased to learn that people are taking an interest in the temple, and that you are getting some publicity started. K.C. is so that it will bring more nad more, If you but go on chanting with heart and soul. It is Lord chaitanya’s desire that you have opened this branch in such a distant place, and surely it will be asuccessful attempt. I have nothing to instruct you newly, but the same: simply chant in the beginning for 30-45 minutes then read somthing from the Gita or S. Bhagwatam, and then chant again in the usual way. Please offer my blessings to Krishna devi dasi, Harsharani, Aniruddha das, Rasi-kananda das, and Jannaivas, and any AUG UST, 1967 201 others who may be with you. I am so pleased you have started this branch, as Kirtananda did in Montreal. Please al- ways keep the temple nicely cleansed, and put as many flowers as possible, burn can- dles and incense, offer fruits and nive food stuffs, chant and dance! If you would like some paintings, you can ask Jadurani in N.Y., and she will sendyou some. I havealready setn 3 mridangas, and very soon will send more; and when they reach N.Y. you will get a mridanga and a fewpairs of kartel. Please keep in touch with you by your weekly reports. So far my health is concerned, I am improving slowly, and I expect to return to you by the end of October next, as I too am missing you very much. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-8-13 29th August, 1967 Boston Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your first letter to me in In- dia, andalso to receive your contrubution of $10. You are always ‘“‘first’’ in contri- butions, and therefore your contribution is also the first to come from the American centers. It is so stated in the S.B. that the best use of the human form of life is to serve Lord Krishna by one’s life, resources, intelligence, and words; so you are all good souls, especially your exam- ple is very nice, for you have practically given your life and soul all to K.C. you are utilizing your resources for the society, and you are using your intelligence and words for the furtherance of K.C. So I very much appreciate your effort, and surely Krisnna will bless you more and- more, and you will feel it yourself. I am very glad to learn that you have finished editing the T. L.C. and if you send me cop- ies by post, I will immediately begin printing here. Iam so encouraged that one branch in N.M. and one in Bostion are opened, even in my absence. This is wanted. Physically I may be present or not; but the work must continue. Our Guru Majaraj injected his Spiritual Vision in some of us, and the work is continuing in different branches, as fas as possible by Bon Maharaj Tirtha Maharaj, my humble self and others. Similarly in the Wetern world, Krishna has sent me some good souls like you, and I hope, even in my ab- sence, that the spiriti of Krishna Con- sciousness will be spread. You will be glad to know the Kirtan- nada is now Tridandi Swami Kirtananda. I have made him a sannyasi yesterday on the birthday of Lord Krishna, and it was unexpectedly a very successful ceremony. The moment he was being offered sannyas there was some ceremony of Janmasthami in the temple, and hundreds of men and women congratulated theyoung sannyasi. Somebody remarked that he looked like Lord Chaitanya. He will be going back to the States very soon; in the meantime I shall try to utilize this “white sannyasi”’ for recruiting some members in India, and then he will go back. He field of work is certainly there; but if he can be used here also, I will try for it. I can assure you your steady progress in K. C.; as you are sincerely trying for the cause of K.C. In the conditioned stage there is every possiblity of being mis- taken; but Krishna will always protect us if we are sincere; even if there is a gross mistake, Krishna forgives his who is very sincere so go on working sincerely and Krishna will protect you always. Kindly made Boston center very nice. The pros- pect there is very good, due to the large number of students. Your ever well-wisher, 202 Letters from Srila Prabhupada My dear Hansaduta, Please accept my blessings. Thank you for your recent letter. I am glad to know that you are comfortable in Boston, and that you are engaging your energt there in making nice Krishna prasadam. I am also very pleased to know that Himavati is definitely going to have a baby. It is a very wonderful thing, and surely Krishna will bless your home with His presence, as both youand your wife and His sincere serveants; The best preparation for the coming of the child is just for the parents to remain perfectly Krishna Conscious, andofcourse, the best means for that is by chanting the holy Names and listening to Bhagawad Gita and Srimad Bhagawatam. I very much appreciate that you enjoy helping to open various centers, and that is certainly laudable on your part. You must fully consider, however, your wife and child; your first duty now as a house- holder is to provide nicely for your wife and child [TEXT MISSING] Lord to give up fighting; rather he was en- couraged in his occupation but at the same time, he was to do it for Krishna. That is the secret of Krishna Consciousness—not that we all have to become preachers, but that we all dedicate our lives or our con- sciousness (no matter in what capacity) to Lord Krishna. If things can be worked out nicely within the temple, that’s all right. But family life requires a certain amount of privacy and convenience, which may not always be available. I am simply con- cerned that you be happy and contented, so you can prosecute the most important thing, K.C., without being disturbed. Ru- panuga and Damodara are both doing nicely in this reagrd, and I wish the same for you. 67-8-14 29th August, 1967 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Iam very glad to receive your first letter to me in In- dia. So far Gita is concerned, please get it completed as soon as possible; it must be published now, either by a publisher or by ourselves. There is a bag in my apartment in which all the old mss. are there, and be- sides that there is in my closet (the key is with Brahmananda) a cloth bundle in which you will find carbon copies; and I think also there are some carbon copies with Rayarama. Please find the missing verses there, and if not, I shall do it again. Regarding separation, you may know that I am also feeling it is all Krishna’s design that we can not sepa- rate transcen- dental field, the feeling of separation is more feeling of meeting. Physi- cally I am trying to go back to your states as soon as possible. I have got a fancy for your country, and being inspired by that, I first went to your country, and still I feel that way. I am improving, although slowly; but I am eating and sleeping better than in N.Y. Regarding your speculation as to whether or not you should accept a position: Krishna wants that everyone should utilize his talent as far as possible. Arjun was a great fighter, and Krishna en- couraged him to fight. He never said that he should sit down and I shall do it for you, although He was able to. The princi- ple should be that we utilize our talents for the service of the Lord. That is real san- nyas. Formal acceptance of sannyas, as required for all old men, means that one should retire from materialistic life, and devote his time and energy for the service of the Lord. As you are devoted already to the service of the Lord, without any per- sonal consideration, you are always san- nyas at heart. Now if you can get some AUGUST, 1967 203 money for our cause of K.C. I think it will be a great service. Futhermore so far as kirtan is concerned, there is no possi- bility of stopping it in any circumstance. Wherever you accept service you can also organize a center very nicely. A teacher’s position is always influential; so your sincere effort for kirtan may be followed by some of your students and co-workers. This means that your sin- cere service will be utilized more fruit- fully among educated people. At the same time your good editorial work will also continue, so I think you may accept a position like that. I am so glad to learn that you have sac- rificed your long beard and hair. I have forgotten your mother’s address, or I would have informed her of your action, and I think she would have liked it very much. Anyway, you must have reduced your age considerably by sacrificing this “maya,” and now you must look like a very nice young gentleman. I have re- ceived one letter from Achyutananda that he is coming here on the Ist. I will send Kirtanananda to receive him at Delhi. I am also scheduled to go to Delhi on the 5th; so after Achyutananda’s arrival, if he likes to stay for some days in Vrindaban, I will make arrangements with Swami Bon (who as you know has offered free room and board and tuition to any interested stu- dent), or he can accomodate three of us will do some traveling about India for the society. Since we have this good arrangement with the Inst. for Ori- ental Philos., I think we may not for the time being open such a center in the states. I am also going to Bombay to try and induce the managing director to give us some concession on the Scindia Line. I repeat once more, that I am also feeling your separation, and I am trying to return as soon as possible. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami SEPTEMBER 67-9-1 Sth September, 1967 My dear Woomapati, Iam so glad to receive your letter dated 28 August, through Achyutananda. You will be glad to know that he has safely ar- rived here via Delhi. He is a very intelli- gent boy, and has safely come without any difficulty. Your letter is very much encouraging to me, that you are appreciating my hum- ble service in spreading Krishna Con- sciousness in your great country. It was my ambition to begin my movement from New York; and by Krishna’s Grace, I got good cooperation from some boys like you; and I felt too much aggrieved when some of you left me, but I was confident that all of your would come again, be- cause Krishna Consciousness is not a ma- terial thing, and cannot be broken: it cannot be burned or wet or dried or stopped at any stage. When I received your letter, it appeared to me that I had re- ceived a letter from a lost child; so please continue your present attitude. I have not heard anything from Harvey. Hope he is doing well. So far my health is concerned, I have improved considerably, and I hope to return by October next. Kirtanananda is now a completely Krishna Conscious person as he has ac- cepted sannyas on the birthday of Lord Krishna with great success. He is the first sannyas in my spiritual family, and I hope he will return back soon to begin preach- ing work with greater vigor and success. Please try to cooperate with the temple managers, because in my absense they might feel some difficulty. You are one of the old founders of N.Y. temple, and I hope you shall take some active part in im- proving the original center. I shall be glad to hear from you at your convenience. Hope you are well. With all my blessings, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-2 Vrindaban 9th September, 1967 New York My dear Rapanuga, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters. You have a problem before you in respect to living separate from your wife. If your wife keeps herself peaceful living separately from you, I think you can arrange for the time being like that, but in my opinion, this business of separation may not be de- veloped into a case of divorce. So far Eric is concerned, he is developing K.C. from very childhood, and it is a great opportu- nity on a human being. I think his father has got a special duty to protect this child in his K.C.; The mother has also similar responsibility, so either your wife or your- self must take care of the good child. If you wife takes charge of him, then you be- come completely free personally, and you can live in the temple with other brama- charies, either in N.Y. or elsewhere as you think best. If however, your wife leaves the child with you, then you can take care of him; that will be nice. But I think it is very difficult, because he is not sufficiently grown up. Anyway, both your 206 Letters from Srila Prabhupada wife and yourself cannot think of marry- ing again; that is not my advice. Even if your wife decides to marry again, for your part you should forget it; and if by the Grace of Krishna you can live peacefully without any wife, completely devoted to K.C., that will be the best part of your life. You can love and put all your affec- tion to the child, and try to make him fully K.C. Regarding our temple affairs, as stated in your previous letter, I think Brahm- ananda might have written me something to my Delhi address, where I may go early next week; but in any case the temple af- fairs should be adjusted in the manner where the important members or all the members may work and support the tem- ple affairs. I am getting very encouraging reports from S.F. and Montreal; but re- ports from N.Y. is not very much encour- aging. Kirtanananda has decided to return back for preaching work in the states as he has accepted the sannyas order of life. Achyutananda is here, but he is not eating well, so I am also put into anxiety. In the beginning Kirtanananda was also sick, and he also at the present moment is feelng some pain in his leg. On the whole, the American boys who come here be- come first depressed, so I do not know how far our American house in Vrindaban will be successful. I am negotiating with the Revenue Minister of Rajastan govern- ment to have some place in the very nice temple of Jaipur. This temple is very ideal place for our imagination of an American house, and it is almost 50% settled that the house may be partly occupied by us. But in any case, at least two American boys must live here and take charge of the management. I am old man. At the same time sick. Even ifI am well, it is not possi- ble for me to look after the affairs of the American house. I want to remain free, being taken care of by all of you. In your states I was happy being taken care of by you, and that enjoyment is liking to me in this old age. Anyway, ask Brahmananda what to do in this connection. My dear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. Your letter of 8/24 contains some important ques- tions. The six goswamis are not all eternal associates of Krishna. Only Rupa and Raghunath Goswami are eternal associ- ates. You know there are two kinds of living entities: nityamukta or eternal associates of the Lord, and nityabaddha or eternally conditioned. Theis material manifestation is a chance for the eternally conditioned entities to go Back to God- head; but when they go back there is no distinction between the two. When Krishna appears some of his eternal asso- ciates come with Him to assist Him in His different incarnational activities; and some of the living entities from condi- tioned life are liberated by following the footprint of Lord Krishna and His bona associates; so all the six became eternal associates of Krishna. Regarding Sar- babhauma Bhattacharya, he decended from higher planet for being liberated in the association of Lord Chaitanya, so his conditioned life came to an end after he contacted Lord Caitanya. The distinction between subtle and gross bodies is ele- mentary. There are eight elements: five gross and three subtle. When a living en- tity has only subtle body he is considered to be a ghost, and when he has both, he is considered in full strength. To remain in subtle body in this material world is very uncomfortable. Regarding your work in the temple by painting, wherever you re- mina, if you are fully absorbed in your transcendental work in K.C., that place is eternally Vrindaban—It is the conscious- ness that creates Vrindaban. The Lord re- mains in the hearts of every living entity. He lives in the heart of a hog, and the hog lives in a filthy place. That does not mean SEPTEMBER, 1967 207 that the Lord lives in a filthy place. The Lord lives always inconceivably in His transcendental abode. Similarly, a fully K.C. person lives always in the pastimes of Lord Krishna by such consciousness only. The material atmosphere is no im- pediment for continuing our K.C. in any circumstance. I think you may not attempt to open a center. Your duty is already fixed up. Bet- ter you remain peaceful under the protec- tion of your god-brothers, and prosecute your transcendental avocation. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-3 15th September, 1967 My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I was very much anxious about your illness, but Ive recieved news from Brahmananda that you are improving. Now whatever condi- tion it may be I advise you to take rock candy as much as possible always keep a piece in your mouth. So far as eating is concerned, take ripe papaya as much as you can, also if possible boil green pa- paya, this will be your diet and medicine. Besides this take sufficient rest and chant Hare Krishna; solong as we have got this material body we have to undergo these situations, if we increase our love for Krishna we shall be able to get out of this maya. People who therefore not exerting to improve Krishna Consciousness are simply wasting there valuable time and human life. Their human life is a chance to be out of the entangelments of material bodies. We get material bodies accouding to our activities, doggish men get the bodies of dogs in the next life, men in Krishna Consciousness get bodies like Krishna, so developed consciousness of human life is to concentrate of Kuishna Consciousness so that we may be out of the clutches of material entaglement. These truth should be preached all over the world and those who are intellegent enough will take to Kuishna Conscious- ness very seriously. You will be cured very soon rest assured, but after you get out of this diseased condition ple please keep fit with regular habits at least once a day take your bath and timely eat drink and sleep. Now you are married man you have got facility for sex life, but also this should be regulated. INcreased Krishna Consciousness will reduce the propensity of sense gratification and too much sense gratification is the cause of obtaining ma- terial bodies. So there may not be bodily disturbance it is necessary to maintain a regulated life and easily prosecute our Krishna Consciousness. I shall pray to Kuishna for your quick recovery. My dear Brahmananda, On arrival in Delhi I recieved a letter and I request you to take proper care of Gargamuni. Let him take complete rest in the hospital and give him rock candy as advised above. For a deseased person suf- fering from jaundice, rock candy will be just appreciated and as soon as he regains health the original taste will be appreci- ated. As soon as it is so the patient is un- derstood to be cured. Regarding money, you can deposit in my savings account #19282 there is a balance in my favor of 27.29 and as soon as it is 100 I shall re- quest them to transfer 100 to my Indian account. Harsha Rane Dasi writes that she has enclosed $10 but unfortunately I don’t find it. It is therefor risky to send bills like that. The best thing is to deposit bank checks in my above account as Ihave in- structed so there will be no misdelivery. I understand from San Francisco that they have sent you $20 for my maintenance in India so advise them to send from all the 208 Letters from Srila Prabhupada centers (6) to you the $10 that they have agreed to pay. You then deposit checks in my account and on hearing from you I shall do the needful. Please advise them not to send money via mail, it is very risky. My dear Jaigovinda, Iunderstand that the draft board is also disturbing you. It is also disturbing to me, but we have no other recourse than Krishna. Do your best to serve Kuishna and he will give you required intelligence to cope with distubing situations. Kir- tanananda is to return to NY soon and I will have to spend $600 somehow or other, so anyway Krishna will arrange. NB It is expected that one gentleman Dr. Dalmia a prominent Indian business man who is now touring in the U.S. may Visit our temple in N.Y. and other cen- ters. If he goes therefore, please try to re- ceive him properly and inform him about our preaching work and our paintings and Lord Jagganath deity there, offer him some prasa- [TEXT MISSING] 67-9-4 Delhi 16th September, 1967 San Francisco My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Sept. 1, I could not write you because I was busy for coming to Delhi. I am very happy to learn that Janmashtami was performed with great pomp at our temple. A similar re- port comes from Montreal. Regarding Vinode Kumar, I think it will be difficult for us to take him to the States. The diffi- culty is that Scindia Lines has recently refused to give free passage to anyone ex- cept myself. So if we want to take him there we have to spend some thousands of dollars for his passage. I don’t think the society can take the risk for a person who is not very expert. I have of course a mind to see the managing director in Bombay and unless a definite arrangement is made we can drop the idea of getting Vinode Kumar in the states. So far your requisi- tion for musical instruments is concerned you canlet me know your definite pro- posal, how many sitars and other things you require monthly. I think your friend or Mr. Kallman in N.Y. can invest some money in this connection. I’ve also writ- ten Mr. Kallman seperately so you can let me know your definite ideas. One sitar manufacturer is prepared to go there and manufacture sitars locally for us, but I don’t think, for the present moment it is a practical program. My health is improv- ing slowly but undoubtedly there is im- provement. My dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter of Sep 5, 67. I’M so pleased for your writing such nice sentiment. I’ve especially noted that you could express yourself so beautifully. I know both you and your sister have inher- ited a good heart from your good mother. Your eagerness to get me back in the states will surely be a success because I’m also eager to return. Tears for Krishna is as good as associating with Him personally. In the spiritual world seperation is more valuable than meeting. So your feelings and tears of Krishna Consciousness will make you more enriched in spiritual ad- vancement. Your husband Mukunda is a very very good boy and you are fortunate enough to have such a nice devotee hus- band. A similar combination is there in your sister and Gurudas. You will be an- gry if I say that your sister is better than you but I think I’m right because Mu- kunda supports me. Rivalry between good hearts is very nice job, but I’m equally SEPTEMBER, 1967 209 pleased with both your sister and your- self. Please convey my blessings to your sister and brother-in-law. I’ve received thier good hand-writing and they have ac- tually done it in full Krishna Conscious- ness. Swami Kirtanananda is returning to the states very soon. You are very much anxious to get him back home and your desire will be fulfilled very soon. Perhaps you know that Achyutananda is now with us and since he has come Swami Kir- tananda has retired from all sorts of activi- ties and Achyutanada is helping me. Anyway he is leaving behind a good repre- sentative so I’ll not in trouble be. Most probably Achyutananda will stay in India to take charge of an American House. I shall be glad to know if Upendra is com- ing. Upendra and Achyutananda will be a good combination, both are silent work- ers without any protest. Please convey my blessings to all the boys and girls. My dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I’m so glad to receive your letter of Aug 30, and I know also that you are a sincere devotee of Lord Krishna. When you drive your car you always chant “Hare Krishna” and when I was by your side I could under- stand how heartily you have accepted the philosophy of Krishna Consciousness. Krishna is very kind to all but He is espe- cially kind to his sincere devotees. Krishna is always with us, within our hearts and He is always ready to give us direction but because everyone is inde- pendent Krishna responds cooperatively. Anyone who voluntarily cooperates with Krishna’s desire He responds to his call very eagerly. Krishna descends to teach us Bhagavad Gita begging our cooperation and anyone who cooperates with Him be- comes blessed. You are sincerely cooper- ating with Krishna and therefore you all boys and girls in SanFrancisco, working together harmoniously. Harmony means Krishna Consciousness. Without Krishna Consciousness there cannot be harmony in the world. I’ve received the report of successful performance of Janmashtami ceremony. I’m glad to learn that you are willing to come to India for further study. I received no letter from Dayananda or his wife Nandarani. I’m anxious to receive the report of the Los Angeles center. Ido not know thier address. Your acknowl- edgement ‘‘Krishna has been very merci- ful to me” is remarkable. You are realizing the fruit of chanting. So far my health is concerned I’m improving, by Krishna’s grace and it is due to your feel- ing of my absence and eagerly awaiting for my return. Please go on cooperating between your godbrothers. I’m always with you never mind if I am physically ab- sent. Please convey my blessings to all the boys and girls and tell them that I’m very eager to return. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-5 Delhi 20th September, 1967 Los Angeles My dear Dayananda, Nandarani and Uddhavadas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter post dated the 8th instant and I am very glad to note the contents. I was very much anxiousto get the new address of our new center in Los Angeles and now I am pleased that our de- sire is fulfilled by the Grace of Lord Krishna. Your specific duty is to chant and hear the transcedental Name of the Lord, read sorne passages from my En- glish version of the Srimad Bhagavatam and Srimad Bhagavat Geeta (Geeto- panishad) and explain them as far as pos- sible you have heard from me. Any devotee who has developed genuine Love 210 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda for Krishna can also explain the truth about Krishna because Krishna helps such sincere devotee seated in his heart. Every one must be frustrated who is not Krishna conscious because the eternal re- lationship with Krishna is so nice. That eternal relationship with Krishna can be revived simply by chnating His Holy Name in right earnest. I understand from your letter that the situation in Los Angeles is different from San Francisco or New York, in the matter of communications. But the flavour of Krishna consciousness is so far-reaching that it will go far and wide if we chant with devotion. After all Krishna is the master of all situations. In the beginning you may feel some difficulty but rest assured that Krishna is always with you and he will help you in all respects. I understand also that you are very much anxious for my return to your coun- try and I am also equally anxious to return and see you again. So far my health is con- cerned I am definitely improving in my health but if I work a little hard or walk a little more I feel tired. Unfortunately there is no good typewriter here and this letter I am typing my self. Achyutananda is not fast typewriter and Kirtanananda is going back to London tomorrow. I have advised him to start a centre in London positively and after a month Rairama will join him from Boston. Kirtananannda has experience to start anew centre and there- fore I have entrusted him with this great task. Ihope he will be successful there as I have given him one important letter of in- troduction for London. Please pray to the Lord that he may be successful. I have heard from friends that the climate of Los Angeles is warmer. For my health I re- quire warmer climate. Whatever im- provement is made here in the matter of my health it is all due to warm climate. As such I shall be pleased to know about Los Angeles with special reference to its cli- matic conditions. Encouragement to the dead souls in the western countries is to inform them that God is not dead. He is not only alive but also we can go and live with Him face to face. The Bhagavat Geeta gives us this specific information and one who goes there in the Kingdom of God would never come back to this miserable material world. There is no need of artificial tal- ents. One has to serve Krishna sincerely with whatsoever talent one may have. Guidance of the Spiritual Master and sin- cere service to the Lord will give us all strength in the science of Krishna. The Teloks on the forehead and other parts of the body are symbolic representa- tion of Radha Krishna Temples. In other words by marking Teloks on all parts of our body we become protected by the Lord from all sides. Besides Telok mark- ing atonce makes one known as Vaisnavas therefore they are necessary as much as the beads. Hope you are well and shall be glad to hear from you. Yours ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-6 22nd September, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, I am in due receipt of yourletters of the 16th and 2nd of Sep. As you are all feeling my separation, similarly I’m also anxious to return as soon as possible. I think I’m fitto go back to your coutry at present and as scheduled previously I’m sure by the end of October. I must be fit to return, but before this there are many things to be done. I’m not yet assured of the perma- nent visa. The best thing will be that from each center an invitation should be sent that my presence is urgently required. Re- garding the American House, as I told you previously, I’m trying to get a nice house SEPTEMBER, 1967 211 in Vrindaban and unless I’m sure of that I can not advise anyone to come here incur- ring so much expenditure and undergoing so much trouble. Students at Swami Bon Maharaj, can come only if they are very much eager and serious about study. He has already given me a letter that 10 stu- dents can be accommodated with food and rooms. In this connecton Achyutananda wishes to submit a report by practical experience. Presently I’m very much anxious to begin printing here if Macmil- lan company does not take up the work. Please therefore let me know yes or no from Macmillan; if he is serious or not, then immediately send the manuscripts, finished or not, to the following address: PunditHitsaran Sharma c/o Dalmia Enterprises, Scindia House, New Delhi. After dispatching let me know and I shall do the needful. If possible I think you should person- ally go to Washington and see Mr. Nerhu for my permanant visa. If my permanant visa is made then I shall be very happy to return. Please arrange for this by all means. Please take up the matter seri- ously as it can be effected. Mr. Ipsilanti has simply takin money. It is so hard to get a sincere lawyer. To summarize the whole thing I beg to statethat the following items are most important: 1, Permanant visa. 2, Final decision of MacMillan. Kirtanananda has already gone back this morning. I have given him an intro- ductory letter to London. In this connec- tion much money have been spent from the building fund. If he gets a favorable re- sponse then Rayrama may join him there and when he goes, then I shall go. I think I’m nowfit to travel and Krishna will give me strength. I’m glad to hear that Garga- mune is out of the hospital and things are going nicely. Hope you are all well. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I requested the monthly subscrip- tion of 10$ from each center may be de- posited in my a/c in New York when it is $100.00 then I shall get it here by fast mo- tion. Kindly let me know if it has been done now. I have received only $10.00 from Boston centre. ACB 67-9-7 23rd September, 1967 Boston My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I think by this time you have gone to Boston. In your letter I understand that you have taken the matter of Back To Godhead in your heart. I’ve received news from other centers that BTG is now in demand and your idea for publishing 5000 copies is very encourag- ing. The news which we are publishing in Back to Godhead has certainly a novel presentation to the people in the western world who are hankering after spiritual enlightenment. So if you continue to write articles on the basis of BG and SB cer- tainly they will appeal to the core of the hearts of all human beings and surely they will respond. So, continue the policy scrupulously and you will be successful. Since I’m here I have not seen a single copy, although I’ve heard from many sources of its improvement. I’m also anx- ious to know whether the advertisement of Scindia delegation is published. Yesterday morning I sent Kir- tanananda to London with a letter of intro- duction to Miss D.C. Bowtell 27 Cornhurst Road London NW 2 Basurey Gaudiya Math. I hope this lady who is supposed to be a Gaudiya Viashnava will receive him well there and there is possi- bility to start a center there. You were to start for London by the beginning of No- vember, if Miss B gives us her coopera- tion and Kritananda is successful in his 212 Letters from Srila Prabhupada mission you will reach there timely and on receipt of a favorable report myself and Achyutananda may also go. AB My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I received many letters from you and some I have re- plied. I don’t know whether I’ved replied all your points. I'll be glad to hear from you about the progress of the Boston cen- ter. So far as my health is concerned, defi- nitely I’ve improved because I am now cooking and typing. I think I will be re- turning by the end of October. Please send a letter of invitation stating that my pres- ence is urgently required in the States. This will help enormously in obtaining my permanent visa. I must produce con- crete evidence of the necessity of my pre- saence in America for this visa status. AB My dear Himavati, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter. Please try to be steadfast in your time of pregnancy and Krishna will be pleased. Yours will be the first baby born into a KC family in America, so we must be very careful for him while he is in the womb. In SB the en- vironment of a child in the womb is de- scribed by Narada Muni as a very awful place and after nine months when the child has developed its body and consc- Ousness to some degreee the entrapped soul begs to Lord Krishna to set me and and promises that in this life he will be a devotee. At that time the baby is allowed to be born but, unfortunately during the Kali yuga as soon as the child is come out of the womb he is in 90% of the cases he is not given any facility to further its KC. However in your case Krishna has shown this soul great mercy. The Bhagavat also says that no one should become the parent unless he can deliver the child from the clutches of death. So it is your duty to make this baby KC so that he may not have to take birth again. My advice for the present is that during your time of preg- nancy you should eat very simple foods, hot or spicy foods are not to be taken and also sexual relations are forbidden. All blessings to Hansaduta and yourself. A.C. Bhaktivedanta 67-9-8 Delhi 27th September, 1967 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of the 24th instant and have noted the contents. Regarding Geetopanishad I have already informed to send the manuscript one copy to the fol- lowing address namely To Sri Hitsaran Sharma C/o Dalmia Enterprises, Scindia House, Connaught place, New Delhi-1. I have arranged everything for the printing and so you will kindly arrange to send one copy of the manuscript without delay finished or unfinished. Whatever is to be done further in this connection I shall manage to do it personally and also fill up the missing stanzas of the 9th chap- ter. Please therefore send it immediately. One copy must remain there. You need not send the Mss all together but send them part by part as they are finished. I hope you will follow the instruction. Kirtanananda Swami prearranged with you to reach on the 24th instant but he ar- ranged here with me that he would stop at London and I gave him one important in- troduction letter. Although he had in his mind not to stop at London and yet prom- ised before me that he would go, for which I gave him extra $20.00. I cannot under- stand why he played with me like this. If he had no desire to go to London he would SEPTEMBER, 1967 213 have plainly told me like that. It has cer- tainly given me a great sock. He is one of my very faithful disciples and if he does like that how can I prosecute my pro- grammes. I have received one post card from him from London AirPort in which he writes that he is going directly to N.Y. I understand also from Woomapati’s letter that he has already reached New York al- though I have not heard anything from him from New York. It is all my misfor- tune. I am so glad to learn that you have se- cured a nice job. Please accept it and do the job very faithfully and try to inject Krishna consciousness amongst the stu- dents. I hope the Dentist’s business with you has successfully been done. Your plan for starting an Indian philosophical soci- ety amongst your students is very good for propagating Krishna consciousness. Wherever you may remain please do not forget Krishna Kirtan and it will do good to you and your friends. Now I am quite fit to start for your country. The best thing would have been to go this time with a per- manent Visa. Kirtanannada met the U.S.A. Consul general and he knows what to do in this connection. IfI go witha permanent Visa it will be very nice for me. Please do the needful in cooperation with your other god brothers as also Mr. Nehru the Ambassador whom Brahm- ananda might have met by this time. My Dear Devananda, Please accept my blessings, Your nice letter with deep regard for Guru is quite appropriate. Guru and Krishna are two parallel lines on which the spiritual ex- press runs very smoothly. In the Chaita- nya Charitamrita it is said “ Guru Krishna prasade payae bhakti lata vija.” By the Grace of Guru one gets Krishna and by the Grace of Krishna one gets a bonafide Guru. Therefore Krishna consciousness means staunch faith both in Guru and Krishna. One minus the other is no good for the devotee. So your faith in the princi- ples of devotion to Guru will certainly help you more and more Krishna. Do not ever try to approach Krishna directly. Anyone who talks of Krishna without ser- vice to Guru will not be successful. So your faith in Guru and Krishna simultane- ously will help you to become crowned with success in the progressive march in Krishna consciousness. Do not be wor- ried, be situated in the present aptitude and everything will be clear. ACB My dear Brahmananda, Please accept blessings. I have not heard from you since a long time. I hope everything is going on nicely. I think the Macmillan transaction is not successful. Please therefore send one copy of the Geetopanishad MSS as instructed above. Let me begin the printing immediately as we have waited so much time. I am now fit to return back but I shall be glad to return with permanent Visa. I am going to Cal- cutta to visit Lord Chaitanya’s birthplace and next letter may be addressed C/o Madan Dutta, 76 Durgacharan Doctor Road, Calcutta-14 If you have collected the contribution from different centers, you can pay Achy- utananda’s mother $88.00. This amount was taken from him on a/c of Kirtananda’s ticket. Kirtanananda should return to you $20.00 which he took from me on the plea of stopping at London. I am feeling too much for his disobedience. ACB My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my greetings on your re- covery from illness. I was so much anx- ious for your illness. Now I am relieved that you have come back from Hospital. I am also glad that you are doing your work for the Society nicely. My blessings for Karunamayee also. By separate post I am 214 Letters from Srila Prabhu pada sending my Pass book, which may be pre- sented as and when required. Where is Rayrama? He may take back from Kir- tananda the letter of introduction to Miss D.C. Bowtell and may go to London as it was previously arranged. I entrusted this matter to Kirtanananda but he has dis- obeyed which has given me a sock. Once he disobeyed my order and we lost $1200.00 in connection with Mr. Payne. This time he has again disobeyed me. If he sets such example in the Society it will be a great impediment. Obedience is the first law of discipline. We are thinking of a great world wide organisation which is not possible to be executed if there is dis- obedience. A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-9 Delhi 29th September, 1967 My dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you for your letter undated. I con- gratulate you on your being elected as president of ISKCON San Francisco branch. Your election as president is a recognition by Krishna and therefore I have got full support for you. Mukunda and other members have rightly selected you as president. Your service attitude for Krishna and your sincere attempts at be- ing advanced in Krishna Consciousness will work with you and make your life more and more glorious and a happy state. I’ve been very glad that you are ap- preciating by your self the effects of sin- cere Krishna Consciousness. I’ve nothing new to instruct you, the same old instruc- tion namely constant chanting and atten- tively hearing the transcendental vib- ration Hare Krishna is the only process for self realization in this age. In San Francisco while youwere driving your car and I was sitting by you hearing your tran- scendental vibration, this very sincere at- tempt has enriched your consciousness and my only instruction is that you may constantly do this habit without fail. Re- garding your dispute in your mind as to re- maining a brahmachary, grihastha or becoming sanyasi, there is nothing to be bothered with. Anyone who is in full Krishna Consciousness and is dedicating his life for Krishna is already a sanyasi even if he is a married man. If you like you can become a householder and I’ve no ob- jection to that. Our Vaishnava philosophy instructs to become ‘“‘Vidvati sanyasis’’, this means a man who knows things as they are, therefore a devotee who knows that everything belongs to Krishna and that He is the proprietor of all such a devo- tee is certainly a Vidvati Sanyasi. Our phi- losophy is that we should accept things as prasadam of Krishna and nothing for sense enjoyment. Anyone who accepts things for sense enjoyment even if he is externally a saffron dressed man is not a sanyasi. The mayavadi sanyasi considers himself as God, this concept of life de- velops under illusion. When a person fails to become the Lord of the universe it is like the sly fox who attempts to taste grapes and failing to do so says the grapes are sour. The mayavadi sanyasins are frus- trated beings in their attempt to enjoy the world, therefore they say the world is fake or the grapes are sour, the world is not false, Krishna is the supreme truth and the world is His energy therefore the energy of the supreme truth cannot be false; but we must know that this energy is inferior to His spiritual energy. As there are hairs and nails on the body and sometimes we separate these parts from the body simi- larly when the the material energy is sepa- rated from the service of the Lord it is inferior energy. Inferior energy is not false but temporary. The same temporary energy when surcharged with Krishna Consciousness it transforms into supreme SEPTEMBER, 1967 215 energy by the supreme will. By this will any energy can be transformed into an- other just like electronic energy in a re- frigerator or in a heater, to an ordinary layman, he sees cold and hot but to an electrician, he sees electricity. So when one is engaged in the service of the Lord that person is already in the spiritual en- ergy, and a sanyasi and the real purpose of a sanyasi is to transform himself from the inferior to the superior, spiritual energy. If your consciousness is absorbed in Krishna you are always a sanyasi. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-10 September, 1967 My dear Krishna Devi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your short note regarding your marriage. So far I know that you are married with Subal das before me and as such you forget all your previous life. You are now liberated from all other oblica- tions because you surrendered yourself unto Krishna. Such surrender has no more obligations to anyone. So far Subal is concerned he is also a surrendered soul ans thus your combination is quiet apt for the service of the Lord. You have, by the Grace of Krishna, got a very nice place to develop a full fledged temple and your husband is becoming competent to con- duct the service nicely. I have already given him instruction how to do things and that is published in the New Mexican pa- per. Please do follow the instructions both husband and wife, and help your God brothers and sisters to follow the instruc- tions faithfully. Krishna is always with you provided you are sincere in His ser- vice and faithful to your Spiritual Master, that is the secret success. It is plain and simple, please try to be faithful and sin- cere. You are very intelligent and devotee of the Lord. Please know it that I do not approve anyone’s separation who are mar- ried by me. If they disagree, they may live separately, but there cannot be divorce. When one is separate, one msy fully de- vote in Krishna, but no more marriage. If this is not followed, I will not take part in anyone’s marriage in the future. I hope you will understand me right and do the needful. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-9-11 September, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I’m in due receipt of your letter dated Sept. 21. I un- derstand from your letter that you re- ceived one consignment of pictures from Brijbasi of Bombay. Did you order these pictures or were they sent of their own ac- cord? From New York we placed an order last April, to their Delhi office the Delhi branch says that the order is forwarded to Bombay for execution. Please inform N.Y. that you have received the pictures. I think the picture you have must belong to the N.Y. branch. So far as musical instru- ments are concerned I don’t think it is worthwhile. Shipping charges and pack- ing and duty come to more than that one could purchase in the states. To send one tamboura by air the total price would come to $163 and by ship 110. If you wish to purchase 20 items at atime thenyoucan get trade shipping rates. Please send my blessings to all the boys and girls in San Francisco. Your ever wellwisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Iam going to Calcutta next week and I may see there how the business is possi- ble. 216 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 67-9-12 29th September, 1967 My dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 13th in- stant as also the press report dated 17th in- stant and I am so pleased tohave them. You have nicely done some service to the Lord by opening this grand branch and certainly Krishna will bestow upon you His blessings. Krishna Consciousness is a transcendental scince which can be re- vealed to a sincere devotee who is pre- pared to render service to the Lord. Krishna Consciousness is not achieved by dry arguments or by academic qualifica- tions. Our senses are all blunt in the mat- ter of receiving transcendental subject matter, but they are purified in due course of time by constant engagemetn in the ser- vice of the Lord. So yours and Krishna Devi’s sincere effort to open a branch in Santa Fe is crowned with success by the Grace of the Lord. The article in the paper New Mexican ia very nicely writtrn and I offer my sin- cere thanks to Mr. Peter Nabokov, who begins the article with chanting of the Ma- hamantra. Please offer my thanks to all who joined you in this endeavor. I’m glad to know that Haridas is there also. Each and every picture published in the paper looks very nice and the devotional pos- tures of you all has very much pleased me. The secret of success in the matter of Krishna Consciousness is devotion tothe Lord and the Spiritual Master. In the Ve- das, the secret of success is described as followes: Yasya deve para bhakti yatha deve tatha gutou Yasya ete kathotha hi artha prakasyanta matmanah “Anyone who has developed unflinching faith in the Lord and the Spiritual Master can understand the revealed scripture un- fold before him. So continue your present apptitude and you will be successful in your spiritual progress. I am sure that even if I am not physically present before you. Still you will be able to execute all spiritual duties in the matter of Krishna Consciousness; if you follow the above principles. I thank you once more for your service. So faras my health is concerned, I feel that Iam now fit to return to your country. You can send me now an official invitation letter with guarantee for my mainteenance and expenditure on printed stationary, and not only you, but also all the centers would send me such invitation so tht they may be used for getting my permanent visa. Kirtananda and Achyutananda went to the American Embassy and it was learnt that such letter are requied for get- ting a permanent visa. The lecture as it papears in the picture seems to be very nice and I shall be very glad to know it’s capacity to hold attend- ants. I am also glad to hear that you are carving Jagganath Subbhadra for the tem- ple. If your temple accommodation is suitable then I shall install Sri Sri Radha Krishna Vigraha when I return back to the states. There are some Mridangas in New York and you can get them for playing in your temple. The last line of your letter is very pleasing to me and I am happy to learn this temple is going to be the most important than all others. Please work for it and I shall join you very soon by the end of October 1967. 67-9-13 30th September, 1967 Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your interesting letter & also the copy of the letter you have sent to SEPTEMBER, 1967 217 the newspaperman. Yes, you must now be careful so that people may not misunder- stand us to be a second edition of the hippy movement. What is done in the past to ad- vertise us is already done. Now we should work solidly to attention of important men, and try to make them understand that this movement is the most authorized scientific agitation to invoke man’s dor- mant Krishna Consciousness. I com- pletely support your idea about the preaching method. We are not lacking in philosophy—by the grace of Krishna we have got ample stock to answer anybody’s intricate philosophical questions. There is no necessity of stopping questioners by dogmatic statements as it was done in the beginning. I have every hope in you be- cause you are educated and have under- stood the philosophy completely. You should try to get another newspaper arti- cle out explaining the real scientific posi- tion of our movement. I am very anxious to go to Montreal. Therefore you must try your best to get my immigration visa on the basis of my being na authorixed Vaishnav minister, based on Srimad Bhagavad Gita and Srimad Bhaga- watam. I hop you have got the copies of my certificates in this connection. If not you can get the same immediately from N.Y. of S.F. centers. I wish that either from Canada or U.S. I should get my visa for free movement. Regarding the incidence that took place on Janmastami day immediately send the following gentleman a copy of your grievance.* (see next page) Pandit Ram Nath Kalia, Secretary Vishwa Hindu Dharam Sammelan, 1936 Chandni Chowk, Delhi 6, Tel. 262025. It is understood that this man has got some connections with members of par- liament & he can help us in raising this question in the Indian Parliament House. You should tell him that you are forward- ing same under my instructions. Do not enter into correspondence with this man without my consent. The man is a politi- cian and according to Chankyia, a politi- cian & a woman are never to be trusted. Regarding Easy Journey. I may inform you that whatever is written there is au- thoritative. The information contained in EJ is contained in various Vedic literatu- ries. In Bagavad Gita as well as in Srimad Bhagwatam it is clearly indicated that be- yond this visible space there is another spiritual space which is eternally existant. Modern astronomers & scientists have no information of the extent of this visible space. And what can they speak of what is beyond this visible space? Therefore our movement is novel. God is living, He has got a particular place & anyone who is Godconscious can approach it in this very life. One of our students, Brahmananda, appreciated very much this discovery. He wrote to me a letter that my delivery of this information has given them life—that God is not only alive, but that we can go & live with Him. So what is applicable to Brahmananda is applicable to all sincere souls & we have to present this to the whole world very nicely. Iam very glad that your wife Mona is gradually understanding Krishna Con- sciousness. Women are generally less intelligent. Give her time & scope & she will turn out a very good assistant for your life. Convey my blessings for her. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *Send him this: 1. Copy of your speech and letter to me of 28 Aug. 1967. 2. Clippings of newspaper or hand bills announcing Miss Uma Shar- mas’ dance in the Temple. 3. Full name & designation of Mr. Dyal of EXPO. 4. List of people present. Addresses. 218 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 5. Copy of letter of regret by Miss Sharma. 6. Limited information ofn 1.S.K.C.O.N. 7. Addresses & names of officers and temple members iin Montreal. Reply to this lettermay be addressed to me in Calcutta. ACB N.B. I am going to Calcutta on 9/10/67 with Achyutananda & Ramanuja. My ad- dress is overleaf. Swami Kirtananda has given me a great shock. I advised him to go to London with introduction letter and money but he flew away to N. Y. without my knowledge. His first action after tak- ing Sannyas is a great shock to me which please note. ACB OCTOBER 67-10-1 3rd October, 1967 My dear Satswarupa, Please accept my blessings, I’ve not heard from you ina long time. Please con- vay my blessings to Rayarama, Damodar & others. Since I’ve come to India, I’ve not re- ceived a single copy of B.T.G. There is no stationary nor prospectus either. I asked for these as well. But I’ve received noth- ing. I am starting for Culcutta on Oct. 9, You may send some stationary, BTG, and Prospectus to my Culcutta address by Air Mail. My Culcutta address is: c/o Madan Dutta 76 Durgha Charan Dr. Rd. Calcutta, 14. In my last letter to Bhramananda, Hay- agriva I’ve already requested that Ray- arama take the introductory letter from Kirtanananda & as previously settled Rayarama may go to London in Nov. In London there is one Miss. D.C. Bowtell, 27 Cranhurst Rd., Crickle cod, London. NW.2. This old lady was given Hari Nama while my Guru Maharaj was on earth. Since then she is maintaining one apartment & may be doing some preach- ing work. So Rayaram may open some corresponcence with her before going there. This will help in the matter of open- ing center in London. This function was intended for Kirtanananda while return- ing to N.Y. He was to stop there & see her but he was so much frenzied to see & meet his old friends that he forgot the order of Krishna & indulged in a sort of sense gratification. It is certainly a shocking in- cident which I never expected from a dis- ciple like Kirtananda. Besides that I shall be glad to hear whether my book, Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings is now compleate. Iam afraid if there is no contract for publi- cation with MacMillan Co. I have already asked Brhamananda to send Manuscript of Gita Upanishade to following address: to Hitsaran Sharma c/o Dalmia Enterprise Scindia House New Delhi 1. Please ask Bhramananda if he has al- ready dispatched the manuscripts to the above address. I do not wish to delay publication any longer but I wish to pub- lish here in India. Regarding my return. I may inform you that Iam now 90% cured & I can im- mediately return but I want to return with permanent visa. Please therefore consult Mukunda, Brhamananda & Co. & do all the necessary action. I shall expect your reply touching all the points made herein to my Calcutta Address. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I have received the letter of Ja- durany. Please offer my blessing for her. I shall reply her letter touching all the points duly. ACBS 220 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 67-10-2 3rd October, 1967 My dear Nandarani, Krishna devi, Subal das, and Uddava, Please accept my blessings. Iam very glad to know that you are now in Los Angeles & organizing the most important temple. I had great desire to have our cen- ter in L.A. & by grace of Krishna you have fulfilled my desire. I had another great desire to open a temple in London and hoped also that Kirtananada after ac- cepting sannyas would do this job. For this purpose he was given and introductory letter to a London lady along with ex- penses. However out of his whim he did not go to London but went directly to New York. This is a terrible example and it has shocked me. Your service attitude en- courages me because Krishna can never be an order supplier. We should always re- member that Krishna is the only order giver. His order is received through the agency of the spiritual master. The bon-a- fide spiritual master is the manifest repre- sentative of Krishna. The spiritual master is described in the scriptures as good as Krishna because he is the most confiden- tial servitor of Krishna. To please the spiritual master is to please Krishna. On this principle we must advance our Krishna Consciousness and there is no danger. Dayananda, Nandarani and Uddava first went to L.A. to open this branch & in the absence of Dayananda, Subal and Krishna devi have come to help. When- ever there is new branch of our society for Krishna Consciousness I become very very happy, & my blessings in heart and soul are with you. I went to your country for spreading this information of Krishna Consciousness & you are helping me in my mission although I am not physically present there but spiritually I am always with you. Our procedure is very simple and consistent. We chant, we read from Bhagavad Gita & Srimad Bhagwatam and we distribute prasadam. Another thing I request is that every- thing in the Temple should be kept nice and clean. Everyone should wash hands before touching anything of Krishna’s. We should always remember that Krishna is the purest & similarly only the pure can associate with Him. Cleanlyness is nextto Godlyness. As to my returning to U.S., I wish to get a permanent visa this time so that I may work without being checked as to my moving. Please therefore consult Mukun- da(S.F.), Brahmananda(N. Y.) Janardana- (Montreal), Rayarama(Boston) & send me either immigration papers or perma- nent visa on the strength of becomong minister of the society. I am now 90% fit to go to your country. I am starting for Calcutta on the 9th and my address there is on the front of envelope. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-3 4th October, 1967 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your very interesting letter dated 27 Sept. along with Bhramanan- da’s. When I receive letters from you and Bhramananda immediately I feel new en- ergy. I thank you very much as much as Mr. Kallman for improving our B.T.G. Krishna has entrusted you with a nice re- sponsiblity for improving the quality & quantity of B.T.G. I am very happy that since it is entrusted to you the things are improving. This means that Krishna is giving you more & more facilities. Krishna is such a nice boss that he gives OCTOBER, 1967 221 more facilities & improvement to the sin- cere servant. From the very beginning of your meeting with me you have very sin- cerely & honestly carried out my orders & Iam so much obliged to you for your sim- ple and plain behavior. Kindly continue this attitude & advise all your God- brothers to do so & they will be happy consequently I shall also be happy. Please guide your innocent God-sisters who have come to our shelter. Girls are more sus- ceptible to the finer attack of maya. Boys are a little stronger in getting out of the in- tricasies of Maya. Mrinalini, Joydurani & all other girls who are so qualified, good- looking, intelligent, educated & seriously engaged in Krishna Consciousness, should always be give protection from the attack of maya. In my philosophy there is no abstenance from sex life but K.C. should teach us that sex life is the cause of us becomming conditioned to the material nature. Therefore advaced Krishna Con- scousness student should know it well that sex life also should be dove-tailed with Krishna conscousness. Better to avoid it; if not possible, to have in a regulated mar- ried life. But in all circumstances, our pri- mary necessity is to advance in K.C. I am glad that you are training Jagadnanda to become my personal secretary as well as you are training Mr. Phil to translate our thoughts to German. Please keep this boy with great care because Krishna has sent him to help us. It is a good combination. Janardan is well acquainted with French, Hayagriva & you with English & Mr. Phil is well acquainted with German. So com- binedly you can perform great blitz for bombarding the Western World with Krishna philosophy. This I wanted & Krishna is sending my good leautenants. I was under the inpression that you were in Boston so I have sent you some letters there. Anyway please send to my Calcutta address by air mail some Prospectus, B.T.G. & stationary. I am going to Cal- cutta on the 9th..The address is on the en- velope. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Bhramananda, Please accept my blessings. Your note along with Rayarama’s is in hand and I am so glad to read it. Yes wait for the final de- cision of Macmillan & Co. & I quite agree with you. If they take up our work it will be very very good so let us wait for it. So you need not send manuscript untill you hear final word from MacMillan. I am glad to learn that Kirtananda Swami is now in N.Y. & that he looks very nice in midst of his glowing God-brothers. But he would have been looking more nice if he had stayed in London for a few days as it was settled here. Anyway I shall be very glad if Kirtananda goes with Rayaram to London & opens a branch there coopera- tively. He has got an introductory letter for a London lady. Immediate correspon- dence may be opened with her. Regarding Ambassador Nehru I am especially interested in him because he wanted to help me in getting my perma- nent visa. Please try to utilize him in some way or other to get this visa other-wise I am quite fit to return to your place. I am always anxious to be with you for the re- maining days of my life, preaching Krishna Consciousness in the Western World. This time I shall go with the deter- mination for my mission in the Western World & try & get me a permanent visa or immigration papers—whichever is easi- est. I think you have my certificates in my apartment & you can utilize them. Two very important things are resting with you. First arrangement with MacMillin & second to get my permanent visa. You are very sincere and Krishna will certainly help you in this attempt. I have duly re- ceived the bank receipt along with the letter. 222 Letters from Srila Prabhupada The pictures that you ordered from S.S. Brijbasi & Sons have been sent to San Francisco by mistake. Write Mukunda that you may get them back. He has re- ceived 3000 pictures from them by air. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Calcutta 6th October, 1967 67-10-4 My dear Satswarupa, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thnak you for your letter of 29th Septem- ber 1967 and have noted the contents very carefully. The letter which you have en- closed therein to facilitate my permanent Visa appears to be nice but if an invitation or provisional appointment as lecturer is possible, I think that will be still nicer. I am going to Calcutta with Achy- utananda and Ramanuja to visit Lord Chaitanya’s birthsite at Mayapur. So until further information, you can address my letters to the abovementioned Calcutta ad- dress. Kirtanananda may be eager to address in the Harvard university but recently he has lost his link on account of disobedi- ence. You sing every day morning that by the mercy of the Spiritual master one can please the Lord and one who has not pleased the spiritual master cannot have any access in the realm of Krishna Con- sciousness. Very recently Kirtanananda has developped a different consciousness of Maya which is called misuse of one’s minute independence offered by Krishna. By misuse of one’s independence one at once becomes a victim of Maya and thus he loses all importance in Krishna Con- sciousness. So it is my definite opinion that his lecture anywherenow will bear no spiritual sequence. He must rectify his mistake before he can be play in our Soci- ety any important role. By lips he says that he is a surrendered soul but by action he is thinking differently. I may inform you in this connection that photo offset copies of the following testimonials are lying in my apartment in New York. Namely 1. Certificate from Sri Chaitanya Matha Mayapur, 2. Certificate Institute of Oriental Philosophy Vrindaban 3. Certificate Keshavji Goudiya Matha, Mathura. 4. Certificate Goudiya Samghasram, Calcutta. 5. Certificate New York University If it is possible to get an official or pro- visional appointment letter through the in- fluence of Mr. Ross and on the stength of the above certificates, it will be easier to get the permanent visa. Regarding Manuscripts you can hold on till my arrival or next letter in this con- nection. The thing is that there is regular negotiation with M/s Macmillion Co for taking up the publication. Brahmananda in his recent letter has informed that the sanction is awaiting the President’s signa- ture. So let us wait a few days more for the final word. I can understand that you have secured a very nice place in Boston and there is very good possibility of pushing our movement amongst the students commu- nity there. Our movement is certainly very much appealing to the younger sec- tion of your country and if we are success- ful in the matter of attracting the students community in your country certainly this movement will scatter all over the world and the foretelling of Lord Chaitanya that in every village and every town of the world the ____ will be famous for His glo- rious Samkirtan movement. Please try for this your heart and soul and your life will be a successful mission. I can understand the hint which you give me about Haimabati and Hansaduta. OCTOBER, 1967 223 As a matter of fact woman is like fire and the man is like the butter pot. They must keep apart for healthy atmosphere. But in your country the social system is differ- ent. In fact in our society, at least, we should make separate arrangement of res- idence for the boys and girls. Gradually we have to organise like that. I am always aspiring after returning at your care and overload you with typewrit- ing tasks. You have done this work always very nicely and sincerely and a secretary like Satswarupa Brahmachary is a great fortune for me. I hope we shall very soon meet again and help each other in the mat- ter of discharging Krishna consciousness engagements. I am now 90% alright and I think I can return now safely. This type- writing work is done by me. For two days I am alone and doing everthing myself as experiment. This proves that I am now well. Please offer blessing to all the boys and girls there. Your ever wellwisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-5 Calcutta 7th October, 1967 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. Your letter dated 30th September 1967 duly in hand. I understand that you are all very anxious to know about me. By the Grace of Lord Krishna I am now 90% well although the basic difficulty namely that I cannot walk very long distance is there. While sitting on my seat I do not feel anything abnor- mal; even now a days I can type letters. I am eating also more than what I was eat- ing in the states. On the whole I am now fit to go back to your country. I think I have several times asked you for arranging my Permanent Visa or im- migration Visa. This will settle myself in your country and I can move freely. While I was in the States you told that my certifi- cates are sufficient to give me permanent Visa on the basis of being the Minister of the Society. Why not try for this and get me a permanent Visa. I am starting for Calcutta with Ramanuja and Achy- utananda (9/10/67) who I think have al- ready written to you about your Tanbura etc. Tanbura from Delhi by Air Mail is very costly. When I go to Calcutta on the 9th October 1967 I shall personally try for the Tanbura Harmoniums etc and settle the terms with Dwarkin and Sons. My ad- dress in Calcutta is mentioned above. The record player which you gave me at the Stinson Beach is lost. It is stolen by somebody from my room while I was alone sleeping. I can take some police action but I do not wish to implicate my- self in such a way because I am going to Calcutta. Is it possible to send me another to my Calcutta address by air mail. If it is too costly do not send. But such portable record player are not available in India. What happened to your cymbals. Now as I am going to Calcutta, I shall personally try for all kinds of supply. Please let me know in details all the goods that you may require from India to execute regular transaction for which you have already started a partnership establishment. The pictures which you have received from S.S.Brijbasi & Sons, belong to the New York center. They sent the order and paid $125.00 for the price. If you want to keep the pictures then your establishment must send $125.00 to me so that I can ar- range to send another consignment for New York. ACB My Dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard for a long time from you. Previ- ously I received so many letters from you 224 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and your sister but now a days I am not re- ceiving but I am always thinking of you and your good husband. I hope you are all doing well. Ihave received one letter from Haridas from Santa Fe. He is willing now to marry and you may arrange for that. Please do remain in Krishna conscious- ness fully and you will always be happy. I am now almost cured & I wish to return back as soon as I am in receipt of a perma- nent Visa or immigration Visa which is in the hands of your good husband. I am starting for Calcutta on Monday morning and I shall be glad to hear from you at my Calcutta address. Please convey my bless- ing to all the boys and girls and I hope to meet them very soon. Yours A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I am negotiating with a local medal manufacturer. The cost will be about 15 ps per dollar. If you want please send money at least for 15 oz medals for $100.00. The size of the medal will be like the Radha Krishna picture on the Pro- spectus. One side the picture and the other side the Society’s name and the word MEMBER The idea is anyone who will become a member will have this allumi- nium nice medal glittering like Silver. Please let me know your decision in Cal- cutta. A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-6 8th October, 1967 My dear Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter Oct 2 & Iam so glad to have it. You and your husband’s service in respect of opening the L.A. center will be recorded in the history of our Krishna Consciousness movement. Most probably I shall be in your country by the end of October or early in Nov. I am thinking of going by pacific route so when I am in your country I shall either be first in San Francisco or L. A. My mind is al- ways with you. Practically your country is my home now. India is foreign country for me. The reason is that my spiritual family is there & my material relationships are in India; therefore factually where my spiri- tual family exists, there is my home. Regarding your personal question in the mateer of relationship with your hus- band. Your relationship with your hus- band is all right. You must be faithful & devoted to your husband, Dayananda. Ve- dic system advises women to become very chaste & accept the husband as master. Your husband is especially good because he is progressing in Krishna Conscious- ness. Iam very glad that you two are very good combination & your devotion for your husband & your husband’s love for you are considered great achievements so I have also advised Krishna Devi for her husband, Subal. I feel very happy when I see my spiritual boys and girls especially those who have been married by my per- sonal presence are very happy in their conjugal relationship. Even if there is some misunderstanding between husband & wife that should be completely ne- glected & you should always remain rigid in service of Krishna as you have written to say, it is pleasing to be in the service of Krishna. Discharge of Krishna Con- sciousness is our primary objective & all other relationships should be faithful to this principle. Follow this principle. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Subal das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct.2. It is noted that you are trying to appoint some public engagements as soon as I arrive. My programis that I am going to Calcutta tomottow. The address is on theletter. OCTOBER, 1967 225 From Calcutta I will let you know when I shall arrive there. Probably by the time in- dicated in your letter. Iam very anxious to see you again. I am very much pleased with you & your wife’s service to Krishna Consciousness. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I am very pleased to have your note along with your husband’s letter. The poetry composed by the old lady Joan Hightower. This poetry indicates that there are many people in your country who really appreciate In- dia’s original spiritual culture. I am rather proud to say that the movement of Krishna Consciousness which I have started in your country will fulfill the desires of many sincere citizens of your country who are actually anxious to have a bon-a- fide spiritual guidance from India. There are man other swamis & yogis in your country & I am very sorry that they can simply exploit the sentiment but they can not deliver the real thing on account of their ignorance of presenting things in the modern situation. Please try to help the cause of this movement & I am sure you shall be able to satisfy many sincere souls. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-7 8th October, 1967 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to understand that your service atti- tude for propagation of Krishna Con- sciousness is progressively increasing. Krishna Consciousness is such a nice thing that the more you work for the cause, the more you become enthusiastic to execute the purpose. Your wife is al- ways assisting you so why make her un- happy by uttering something which is ‘unnecessary and unpleasant? Even if you accept Varnaprasta there is no restriction for keeping one’s wife in company. Only a Sannyasi can not have any connection with woman. Just as a bramachari. In my opinion, your wife and yourself are nicely executing my mission and please try to follow my instructions and you shall never be unhappy. If you think I can be on television by the first week in December, then you can arrange for it because I must be in your country by the middle of November. Hope you are well. 67-10-8 Delhi 9th October, 1967 All Glory to Sri Guru & Gouranga My dear Sri Krishna Panditji, Please accept my greetings. I am leav- ing for Calcutta today as it was already settled. You promised to come and see me yesterday at 2 P.M. but you didn’t come; When I was at Vrindaban you several times asked me to come to Delhi for sev- eral times and I came and remained here for a month but you did not do anything about the room, I would not have come to Delhi at least my Gramophone machine wouldn’t have been stolen, now you can definitely let me know your decision to my Calcutta address as it is on the overleaf. (1) If you want to transfer the Trust to the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, the Society will do every- thing for the improvement of the Temple and also engage you as paid whole time manager on behalf of the Society. You asked Rs 300/- per month and this is agreed herewith. (2) If not I am prepared to advise my 226 Letters from Srila Prabhupada banker to pay you Rs 25/- per month with- out fail but the key of the room will be with me. (3) I have not begun my printing works because you have not said anything about the room. If you therefore settle about the room in either of the above mentioned (1) & (2) (proposed) I shall come ——— from Calcutta, do the needful & then I shall go back to U.S.A. If you are not settling anything room, then I may not come back to Delhi any more. I will go to U.S.A. directly from Calcutta via Pacific (route ?) for which Sri Dalmia Seth has already promised for the ticket Rs. 5,500/-. So kindly reply this letter forthwith to my Calcutta address & Hope this will find you well. Yours affectionately, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Calcutta 11th October, 1967 67-10-9 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. On my ar- rival in Calcutta Ihave duly received your two letters dated & Sth instant. Re- garding change of dress, I beg to inform you that every Krishna conscious person must be clean shaved, must have Tilaks on the forehead and other eleven places and must have the Sikha on the top of the head besides beads on the neck as usual. Rarely one can continue to keep beard but it is better not to keep it to distinguish oneself from the Hippies. We must let the public know that we are not Hippies. Do not try to follow the unauthorised advice of Kir- tanannanda. No body cares for the dress; every sane man follows the philosophy and practical talks. Let Kirtananda Swami do something practically. Let him do whatever he likes and let us see that thou- sands of American are following him. Un- less he does so do not accept his principle. I think all of you except a Sannyasi may dress yourself just like a fine up to date American gentleman but one must have the Tilaks etc as I have mentioned above. Kirtanananada is the first man in our soci- ety who cleanly shaved and kept the Sikha on the top of the head and now he has be- gun to keep beard again. This is not good. Whatever he is doing now-a-days has no sanction from me. And he has deliber- ately disobeyed me by not going to Lon- don. Now he appears to be out of my control and therefore I advise you not to follow his principles unless he shows practically something wonderful. I gave him a chance to do this in the matter of opening a Branch in London but he has failed to do it. Now let him show first of all that by seeing his newly grown beard he has been successful to have many Americans following him and our finan- cial condition has improved, then try to follow his instruction. Otherwise reject all idle talks. A krishna conscious person must be seen by ears and not by the eyes or in other words one should try to know the depth of realisation by Krishna conscious person and not see the beard which has become the practice of the Hippies. You should have immediately utilised Mr. Nehru to give me a certificate. Lord Chaitanya’s movement is genuine and I am the bonafide representative in your country for this movement. Now if Mr. Nehru certifies this, then where is the dif- ficulty to obtain the permanent Visa either from there or from here. Please see there- fore immediately Mr. Hejmadi and obtain the certificate as abovementioned. I think Mr. Nehru must have already spoken to Mr. Hejmadi about this. As advised by you I am writing sepa- rately to Hayagriva about the manuscript of Geetopanisad. For typing, Satswarupa is always ready and therefore there is no need of emplying a paid man. Regarding other problems, depend on OCTOBER, 1967 227 Krishna and try to find out a suitable place if Mr. Judy has a tendency to exploit us. I think Kirtananda may do this practical service to the Society first if you are cer- tain that Macmillan Co. is not going to take to our publication, then you must keep aside the $5,500. for this purpose. We must have our books printed, we have wasted much time in the matter of editing and finding out a suitable publisher. When I was alone there were three vol- umes published but during the last two years I could not publish a single volume more. It is a great defeat. If I have one or two sincere souls like you and if we can make more publications, then our mission will be a great success. I am prepared to sit down underneath a tree with one sin- cere soul and in such activity I shall be free from all diseases. I know that you are very much anxious to see me in good health and by the Grace of Krishna I am getting well day by day. The only thing is that this time I wish to return on permanent Visa or immigration Visa and before I go I wish to begin the printing of Geetopanishad. My dear Rayrama, I am in due receipt of your letter. Yes you try to make successful B.T.G. as you have recently planned and then you may proceed to London. And because you are so engaged I asked Kirtananda to go to London on his way back but he did not like the idea and has gone back to New York directly without any reason. Please send me some stationery and copies of Back to Godhead to my Calcutta address by Air mail immediately. Please offer blessings to all the boys and girls and Madhusudan may be in- formed that I have duly received his letter. Yours ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-10 13th October, 1967 My dear Damodar, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Oct. 9. I am very sorry to hear that Kirtananda is ad- vicing you to give up the robes and the flags on the head. Please stop this neis- ance as I never instructed Kirtananda to act like that. I am not at all satisfied with this action of Kirtananda. Kirtananda has no right to instruct you in that way, with- out consulting me. People are being at- tracted to the chanting of Hare Krishna & not to Kirtananda’s devices. Kirtananda suggested to me when he was here that the Americans do not like the robes & flag. I told him personally if you think that Americans in great numbers will follow you, simply for not having robes & flag, I therefore adviced him to drop for a few days in London & test this theory. But he has gone directly to N.Y. & is now caus- ing these disturbances without consulting me. I have not sanctioned these methods. In my opinion, Clean shaved Bramacha- ries & Grihasthas in saffron robes look like angels from Baikunta. Translation of prayers into English is good & if some- body dresses like nice American gentle- man without any robes, I have no objection; but every one of my disciples must have the flag & marks of telok on forehead. This is essential. Besides that, nobody should do anything without my sanction. I am very sorry to hear Kirtananda, without doing anything practical, changes his ideas constantly. He was first man in our society to take the robes shave cleanly, & take flag & now he is changing his posi- tion. You have asked me to tell you whether you are right or carry one by the following the follish advice of Kir- tananda, & I say straight that Kirtananda is wrong and you are right when you say 228 Letters from Srila Prabhupada that the movement will come to nothing if I am not satisfied with your actions. You have written to say that a devotee can do anything for Lord Krishna; this is right provided such action is sanctioned directly by Krishna or his Bona-fide rep- resentative. The idea of film making is very good & any propaganda medium can be utilized for Krishna Consciousness. In future if you get opportunity we can pro- duce many films of life of Lord Chaitanya, scans from Bhagavd Gita & Srimad Bha- gawatam. Your plan to remain in Boston till March and then start for N.Y. for film op- portunities is quite approved by me. Thank you for your energetic enthusiasm. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to receive your letter (undated). Yes I am feeling stronger. I always think of you because you are so nice in Krishna Con- sciousness. Several times I talk about your nice qualifications which you are employ- ing amongst my visitors. Krishna Con- sciousness is always dormant in everyone’s heart & it can be awakened simply by service attitude. You are al- ready allotted a nice service & if you con- tinue this reponsibility anywhere you live & at the same time chant at least 16 rounds a day you will do all right in any circumstances. You have written to say that I am “as hard as the thunderbolt & softer than a rose” is quite right in the line of Krishna Consciousness. I am very sorry to inform you that Kirtananda is playing the part of a foolish man after his return to N.Y. & it is necessary for me to play the part of a thunderbolt for his non- sense activities. He has unnecessarily in- structed something to Damodar which is not sanctioned by me. Since he has devel- oped this nonsensical attitude so much so that he is dictating something which is not sanctioned by me, all his instructions should be neglected. Please inform this to all centers. Krishna can be present simultaneously everywhere. He lives in His abode Vaikunta & still he is all pervading. Krishna is never limited by space & time, therefore he can manifest Himself in Ca- sual Ocean as well as in Vaikunta. I do no follow why you should feel un- easy in my presence. The easiest thing for you & for all others is to follow my in- structions wherever you may be or I may be. When Rayarama returns tell him that I have seen a copy of BTG. and that I am very pleased with it. Tell him to increase the quality and qantity of BTG. Also ask him to send me as many copies of BTG (at least 3) to this address. My dear Hansaduta, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of Oct. 5. “Money is the honey” goes so far as it is employed for Krishna conscousness. The body is undoubtedly a material vehicle but when it acts for Krishna Conscousness it be- comes spiritualized. By the grace of Krishna material energy can be trans- formed to spiritual energy & spiritual en- ergy is never deteriorated. to be in Krishna Conscousness means to be in Spirital energy. More in my next. Hope you are well. A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-11 14th October, 1967 My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for sending me 2 copies of OCTOBER, 1967 229 BTG stationary & envelopes. I have re- ceived a letter from Damodar (dated Oct. 9) in which he writes to say: “Swami Kirtananda has returned to the United States and is causing quite a stir among the devotees. Following his suggestions, we have stopped wearing robes and have cut off our flags. He said these appurtanences are too strange- looking to outsiders and only make it more difficult for them to consider chant- ing Hare Krishna. Swami Kirtananda has said we must avoid appearing to be Orien- talists if we are to have 108 centers in the Us.” This is very much disturbing to me & has caused me much pain. Please there- fore stop Kirtanda from making his men- tal concoctions. Do not be misled by him. I have never adviced him to act like that. If he is causing such disturbances he should not be allowed to indulge in such non- sensical activities. I have already written you to inform you that somehow or other he has become crazy; otherwise he would not have disobeyed me to go directly to N.Y. For the time being he has cut all link with me, therefore any instruction given by him is unauthorized & should at once be rejected. He has no right to dictate as he has without my sanction. Whatever is to be done will be executed when I return. He is too much puffed-up non-sensically therefore you should copy this letter & forward to all centers that Kirtananda has no right to dictate anything to the Society in this way. I am very sorry that he is ex- ploiting his present position as a sanyasi. I have no objection if members of the Soci- ety dress like nice American gentlemen; but in all circumstances a devotee cannot avoid telok, flag on head, & beads on neck. These are essential features of a Vaishnav. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-10-12 16th October, 1967 My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter (dated Oct. 10) & I’ve also received Kirtananda’s letter. From Different centers of our society the news of the activities of Kertananda is giv- ing me too much pain. From Rayarama’s letter it is clear that Kirtananda has not rightly understood Krishna Conscious- ness philosophy & it appears that he does not know the difference between inper- sonal & personal features of Krishna. The best thing will be to prohibit him to speak in any of our functions or meetings. It is clear that he has become crazy & he should once more be sent to Bellevu. He was in Bellevu before & with great diffi- culty & with the help of Mr. Ginsberg we got him out. But it appeares that he has de- veloped his madness again, therefore if he is not sent to Bellevu then at least he should be stopped from speaking such nonsense. It is clear from his activities that he has been attacked by maya; he is a victim. We shall pray to Krishna for his recovery but we cannotallow him to speak on my behalf. I am trying to returnas soon as possible & when I return everything will be all right. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter (Oct. 12). I’ve received copy of #14 BTG & it is very nice. I do not wish to disturb you in your responsibilities with BTG & you can go to London at your convenience. I am glad that you have started correspondence with Mrs. D.C. Bowtell, & that will settle mat- ters more directly. One of our girl devo- tees, Srimati Annapurna devi, who is in San Francisco has also facilities to visit 230 Letters from Srila Prabhupada London because she belongs to that place. So you can open correspondence with her also. Ihave already requested Brahmananda to stop Kirtananda’s speaking at any of our functions till my arrival. If he wants to preach anything he can do it on his own in a different place. Krishna is certainly one and different, but his oneness is stressed by the impersonalists which is distinct from our philosophy. Our philosophy of Krishna’s oneness & difference is ex- plained in the 9th ch, 4th verse of B.G. in which it is clearly stated that Krishna is one by distribution of his diverse ener- gies. When Krishna contorls his diverse energies he does not become impersonal. If Kirtananda believes in one-Self, why does he stress the vibration & not the words? Why does he find difference in vi- bration & words? If he beleivies in one there is no difference between vibration & words? And why shouldn’t one be at- tached to the chanting? All this means that he has no clear idea & he is talking non- sense. If Kirtananda does not understnd this philosophy then better he should stop speaking non-sense. I can understand his designs but I cannot help because I am far away from the place. I am leaving here with a note to Kirtananda which you please show him & do the needful. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I’ve re- ceived your note along with Brhamanan- da’s for first time since you left to N.Y. You had no desire to stop in London. This is clear to me from Hayagriva’s letter which indicated that you had already planned to go there even before you left In- dia. Since you have returned to N.Y. you have falsely dictated that I do not want the robes or flags. Why are you disturbing the whole situation in my absense. I never or- dered you to speak like that. They must continue to have robes & telok & flags & they must distinguish themselfes from the hippies. I never objected to any of my stu- dents dressing like nice American gentle- man, clean shaved; those who are my disciples must have flag, telok & beads on neck without fail. Anyway I never adviced you to dictate on behalf, please therefore do not misrepresent me. You have been given sanyas to follow my principles & not to disturb me. If you do not agree with my philosophy you can work independent and not with-in the walls of ISKCON. You have not understood Krishna properly. The best thing will be to stop your talks my return & if you love me at all please do not talk in any meeting but chant in soli- tary place—anywhere you like. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-13 17th October, 1967 My dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I’ve re- ceived your letters of Oct. 6&7. Achu- tananda is learning Hindi & when he is well versed in the language probably he will be able to translate all the Puranas available in Hindi into English. Brahma Samhita is the gist of the Srimad Bhagwa- tam. in the bhagavad gita as well as in the Srimad Bhagwatam, Krishna is accepted as Supreme Lord & everything about him is nicely described there, similarly in the Bhrama-Samhita everything about Krishna is perfectly described. In the very beginning of the book, Krishna is ac- cepted as the Supreme Lord existing eter- nally in his transcendental form and is the cause of all causes. One who reads Brahma Samhita very carefully & OCTOBER, 1967 231 scrutinisingly can understand everything of Krishna without any fault. I recom- mend, therefore that all my students read Brahma Samhita very carefully—espe- cially because it was translated personally by my spiritual master Srimad BhaktiSid- dhanta Saraswati Goswami Maharaj. Regarding Kirtanands, he is undoubt- edly a good soul, but lately he has been at- tacked by maya; he thinks too much of himself—even at the risk of disobeying his spiritual master & talking nonsense about Krishna. As a man haunted by a ghost talks so much nonsense, so also when a man is overpowered by the illusory energy—maya, also talks all sorts of non- sense. The last attack of maya upon the conditioned souls is impersonalism. There are 4 stages of attack of maya; viz.: 1 stage is that a man wants to be a protago- nist of religion, 2 is that man neglects reli- giosity and tries to improve his economic developement, 3) is to be protagonist of sense enjoyment & when a man is frus- trated in all the above mentioned stages he comes to 4, which is impersonalism, and thinks himself one with the Supreme. This last attack is very serious and fatal. Kirtananda has very recently developed the 4th stage malady on account of his negligence & disobedience to his spiritual master. Sometimes a foolish patient when he is out of feverish-attack by the grace of the physician, thinks that he is cured and does not take pre-caution against relapse. Kritananda’s position is like that. Because he helped the society in starting the Mon- treal center I thought he is now able to start other branches & when he asked me to give him Sannyas I agreed taking the opportunity of his presence in Brindavan. Simply by his Sannyas dress he thought himself as cured of all material diseases & all mistakes but under the influence of maya, he thought himself a liberated pa- tient, just as the foolish patient thinks himself cured from the desease. Under the spell of maya, he deliberately dis- obeyed me by not going to London & con- sequently his disease has relapsed. Now in N.Y. he has began to dictate nonsense in my name—such as giving up robes, flags etc. Instead of opening new centers he has began to deliver his nonsense ser- mons amongst his God-brothers which are all against our principles. For the present he should simply chant Hare Krishna & cease to deliver lectures be- cause he has not understood the whole philosophy very nicely. Regarding the hippy religion; we must distinguish ourselves from the hippies. The hippies generally maintain long hair & beard & in order to distinguish our- selves from them we should be clean shaved. When our devotees go outside I have no objection if he dresses as nice American or Canadian gentleman. Up to date gentlemen are all clean shaved so if we do not keep long hair & dress our- selves nicely with telock, flag & beads on the neck, apart from our devotional ser- vice, then certainly we shall be distinct from the Hippies. I think we should fol- low this principle rigidly & there is no question of giving up robes inthe temple. We do not wish to be estranged from the material world. That is another non- sense. We have to deal with persons in the society & perhaps we are the only com- munity in the world which can render the best possible service to the society. Ramachandra’s victory celebration is observed in the last day of Durga Puja. Vaishnavas are not concerned with Durga Puja. Depavali or Devali is observed as new years day by certain mercantile com- munity. The Vaishnavas have nothing to do with this ceremony but just on the last day after Devali the Vaishnavas observe Annakute ceremony. This celebration is the day when Lord Krishna lifted the hill & Madhabedan Puri established the tem- ple in Gopala. 232 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Use brown or unrefined sugar if you can find it. Hope you are well. My dear Mahapurusa, Please accept my blessings, I am in due receipt of your detailed letter. Brown rice generally is doubly boiled, therefore it cannot be used for Krishna prasadam. Unpolished rice which looks like brown can be used. Generally in American the brown rice is doubly boiled therefore un- fit. We do not mind polished or unpol- ished but doubly boiled mustn’t be used. Doubly boiled rice is considered impure. Sun baked rice is all right. My dear Sivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am try- ing to go back to your country as soon as possible. Hope you are well. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-10-14 18th October, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your telegram reading as follows; “Swamiji Now Filling third Prefer- ence Visa With Documents” Today I have been to the American Conslar office & upon presentation of the invitation letters from the different cen- ters I was at once granted visitors visa un- der #B2. The officer whom I met was very sympathetic & he said that Immigration visa from this side would take a long time for being granted better I took the visitors visa—so I have accepted it. Now for the present you may not take any steps until my arrival. Tomorrow we shall get your tamboura. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-10-15 19th October, 1967 My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I was very glad to receive your letter dated Oct. 13. I congratulate you for your successful deal- ing with your good brother, Sriman Brahmananda, against His falling back a prey to Kirtananda’s recent propaganda. To save a man from impersonal calamity is the gratest service to humanity. I also thank Rupanuga & Rayarama for helping you in your very laudable action. Brahmananda is very pure at heart. He might have been misled by Kirtananda for the time being but Krishna did not allow him to fall back. According to Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, the Lord is full in six opu- lences & the rascal impersonalists says that the Lord has no form & the most dan- gerous accusation for the Lord that He as- sumes a material form when he descends. The Impersonalist is of the opinion that the absolute has no form & He appears in a particular type of form according to the whim of nonsense; The impersonalist presents any form nonsensical by his imagination & worships it as God. This accusation of the Lord is the gratest of- fense of the nonsense impersonalist. Such offender can never realise the transcen- dental form of the Lord & the Lord puts such nonsense into more & more darkness so that the dagerous impersonalist can never know the Supreme personality of Godhead. I do not believe that Kirtananda has gone to such an extent of ailing situa- tion but if he does not rectify himself im- mediately his future is very dark. If he is sincere in his concept of impersonal Ab- solute he should enter into correspon- dence with me & I shall refute all his arguments; but I understand that he could not answer you even when you hit him with some questions. I shall request that OCTOBER, 1967 233 you save this poor creature from imper- sonal calamity. You will be glad to know that I’ve al- ready secured my visitors visa for going to U.S.A. & I am advised by travel agent to book my seat conveniently. I am going to Navadwipa, the birth place of Lord Chaitanya next with Achutananda & Ra- manuja. My next mailing address is; c/o Shri Chaitanya Saraswat Math, Ko- lergunge, P.O. Navadwipa. District Na- dia. W.B., India. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami My dear Bramananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Oct. 11. It was a great pleasure to note the contents, now you have nicely expressed your real mind, In your previous Letter in which I saw a little tendencey of being turned by foolish Kirtananda. but I was confident that Kir- tananda was not so strong as he would be able to defeat you. I was completely confi- dent of your sincerity of service & my choice of your being president of the soci- ety is right. I may disclose herewith that I never took Kirtananda into complete con- fidence but I was trying to improve his po- sition because he has also rendered much personal service to me. I am very much obliged to him for the service as I am to my other disciples & I am very sorry that Maya has taken advantage of his disobedi- ence & he has fallen to Maya’s illusion— but he should not continue for a very long time as I will always pray to Krishna for his recovery. For the time being he should simply chant Hare Krishna without any attempt at lecturing. The impersonalist cannot render any service to Krishna be- cause he is a great offender. Under the cir- cumstances, Krishna will not accept food prepared by Kiertananda in his present de- seased condition. If he at all wants to ren- der service to Krishna he may be engaged at washing dishes & this will improve his condition. You will be glad to know that the US consular office has granted me vis- itors visa and yesterday I’ve asked the tra- vel agent to arrange for my seat. So in all proability I am sure to return to USA as early as possible—just after my return from Lord Chaitanya’s birth place. Be as- sured always that Krishna is transcen- daental Personality & men with poor fund of knowledge cannot understand what is this transcendental form. Our Society For Krishna Consciousness stands pledged to this philosophy & I require strong men such as yourself for preaching this cult in this world. Iam very glad that youaretry- ing to understand this philosophy & there is nothing to be sorry about your being misled by Kirtananda. It is not in his power to mislead a sincere soul such as yourself; but I must congratulate Garga- muni, the simple boy, who never believed in impersonalism. He is your younger brother as important as Lord Lakshman was younger brother to Lord Rama. I am very glad that that this simple & honest boy has saved you from calamity. I am praying to Krishna to bless you, your brother Gargamuni, Rupanuga etc. for their eternal life in Krishna Conscious- ness. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-10-16 Calcutta 19th October, 1967 My dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Your letter dated Oct. 3rd, sent to my Delhi address is redirected to Calcutta & therefore I have delayed in replying. We are again leaving this place for Navadwipa & you can reply 234 Letters from Srila Prabhupada there, the address you will find on the en- velope. It is so nice to read your letter & the reply as to how you are always think- ing for Krishna. When you write to say that “I would like very much to be teach- ing them Krishna Conscience instead of English” it reminds me of Lord Chaita- nya. For some time Lord Chaitanya was conducting a Chatusuati, which is a small tutorial village class run by a learned Brahmin. When Lord Chaitanya was teaching grammar to his students he was explaining Krishna. There is a chapter in Sanscrit grammar which is called Dahtu, it is verbal denominations. Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu was explaining Dahtu as Krishna & He would continue to explain Krishna in every step. When the students felt that the teacher was crazy the Tran- scendental Teacher closed his class. So your desire to teach Krishna Conscious- ness to the students instead of English is very nice & Krishna will be bestowing his blessings upon you for your thinking in that way. From my part as I am your ever well-wisher I wish that you may preach Krishna Conscieness to the students of the entire western world. You are a sincere soul & both your mother Father are happy to see you in Krishna Consciencness. Please continue this attitude throughout your life & you will be blessed not only in this life but in your next eternal life in as- sociation with Krishna. Krishna has given you a very nice chance in the city of Wilkes-Barre Penn. & the idea of pur- chasing land as you have suggested is very nice. I think you can negotiate for this land immediately & the Society will be able to pay $3,000.00. After purchasing the land you can gradually develop it into an ashram by dint of your personal labour as teacher in college. From N.Y. the members may visit the place every week- end because it isn’t very far away. They take a 4 or 5 hour journey every week end so a 3 hour journey is not much. If you think you shall stick to your present occu- pation you can seriously think of this scheme. I am already preparing for returning to U.S.A. & Ihave obtained visitors visa the day befor yesterday. Most probably I shall take the first chance to return to USA upon my return from Navadwipa. Regarding the Gita. I fully agree with your suggestions. So far Macmillion is concerned I shall be so glad to hand over the matter to them for publication, but in case they do not do it,—please negotiate with another publisher & in the mean time keep the MSS ready, at least in 2 copies. I think there is no need to employ a profes- sional typist. Our dear typist, Satwarupa is always ready to do this work. He has al- ready finished my book, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, & he is now free to type the Gita. So you can send it in installments & when he acknowledges receipt of first part you can send him the second, and so on. Or if possible you can hand it over to him personally, as you can conveniently arrange. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-17 22nd October, 1967 My dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Oct. 15. Itis so nice & enjoyable. Your appre- ciation of Krishna Consciousness is much improved by the grace of Krishna— because you are chanting Krishna’s Holy names constantly. There are some truths which you have expressed as really sub- lime, especially the portion where you write to say ‘‘even though He Himself is unchanging, His glory will always in- crease.” Krishna’s name is Achyta, un- changing, but He is Bliss although always OCTOBER, 1967 235 full, still increases, to increase the blissful existence of the devotee. Please continue to think of Krishna & you will feel more & more the Blissful pleasure transcendental to all material contamination. I am very thankful to you for appreciating my hum- ble service. You will be glad toknowthatI have already secured a visitor’s visa to your country & have asked my travel agent to book my seat on the earliest possible date. I think I shall be in your midst by the middle of Nov. I went to your country with a mission & you all good souls were sent by Krishna to me. So let us cooperatively work together to vigorously spread Krishna Consciousness, to the suffering humanity at large. Your country is great & you are all good sons of America. Spread this knowledge so that America will be still greater in the eyes of the world. Keep this point of view in front of you & all your God-brothers combine together may exe- cute this mission. I am very glad to learn from Rayara- ma’s letter that both you & Satyabrata (Moskowitz) are regularly attending class. So I thank you again. Hope you are well. You over well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters dated Oct 11, & Oct 18. I have noted the contents. I have received stationary & prospectus both from Montreal & New York. So far as Kirtananda’s chapter is concerned, forget all this, Maya’s play. We shall be sorry for Kirtananda’s plight under Maya and may not waste our valuable time talking about him. The best thing that you have done is that he should no longer speak in our tem- ples. We shall all pray to Krishna for his recovery & only by His grace can he come back to his real identity. I’ve already in- formed you that a visitor’s visa has been granted to me. & as you say that on my're- turn this visitor’s visa may be converted into a special immigration visa as a minis- ter. So on my return necessary arrange- ments may be made as suggested by the clerk at the U.S. immigration dept. On Wed. next I am departing for Navadwipa, I shall stay there for at least a week & after coming back my program is to start for U.S.A. But as you say that permanent visa can be arranged from here on the basis of certificates which you intend to send me. So you will immediately let me know whether or not I shall start on the visitor’s visa. I inquired in U.S. Consulate about this & the man who immediately granted me my visitor’s visa told me that a perma- nent visa will take a long time for deci- sion, so I accepted the visitor’s visa. My Navadwipa address you will find on the envelope. Tomorrow I shall take informa- tion of Mr. William Stuart, The U.S. vice consul in Bombay. Regarding final typing of Gita Upanishad; the copies must now be ready as I am expected to return soon. So if MacMillan Company does not re- spond we shall try to get it published by another U.S. publisher, failing that we shall publish in India. Your suggestion for opening a center in Russia is welcomed as the Europeans were very enterprising in the Middle- historical period for colonization. Simi- larily we should be enthusiastic to open different branches in different parts of the world other than India. In India they are opening many such branches, but our re- sponsiblity is to open branches outside In- dia. So it will be a great endeavour if you four go to Russia to open a center there. Iam very much appreciate your lectur- ing arrangements in different educational institutions & I have full confidence in both you and Rayarama. Indian things may be exported but I do not know the va- rieties of goods that would be saleable there. For the time being I have arranged 236 Letters from Srila Prabhupada for musical instruments with Dwarka & sons, & so also I am arranging fo incense. If Indian Saree’s are required, that also can be arranged. But unless I definitely hear from Mr. Kallman what particular things he wants I can not guess what is to be done. The most important thing is that you let me know immediately whether or not I should start on the visitors visa. Visi- tors visa I’ve already got. I could start without delay but if you want me to apply for permanent visa it will take some time. So I shall await your immediate reply. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. If Kirtananda honestly believes in his new doctrine, he should honestly re- turn the certificate of his Sannyas which he very tactfully secured from me. He should not utilize this certificate without any allegiance. 67-10-18 Calcutta 23rd October, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Oct 16 with great pleasure. Now I feel certain that you will get my immigration visa, in the meantime as I have allready informed you I’ve gotten a visitors visa immediately on presenting passport. So please let me know whether I should wait for the immi- gration visa as you intend to send me or should I start on the strength of the visitors visa. On the whole now I can start any day I like but if you think I should wait I shall wait. You must write me immediately. I’m leaving Calcutta the day after tomorrow for Nabadwip, the birth place of Lord Chaitanya and my address is given on the over-leaf (please find). You will reply this letter to my Nabadwip address and on hearing from you I will do the needful. When coming from San Francisco I promised to Janaki and other girls that this time when I come back I shall first come to San Francisco. So I shall return by Pa- cific route and possibly make a break in the journey in Tokyo and Hawaii. I have duly received the copies of your corre- spondence with SS Brijbasi. I understand that there was no mistake on your part. Along with your letter I have the note of Janaki’s Aunt Edna. Please convey my greetings and good wishes to her. She may remain there withyou till my return. I have duly recieved your telegram as well. My dear Lilavati, Please accept my blessings. I’m just in reciept of your letter. Your child should be named Subhadra, the name that you have already chosen, this is nice. Regarding the horoscope, it is a nice idea and if I meet a good astrologer I shall try to get one for your little child. I’m glad that you have sent me the exact time and date of birth, this will help. N.B. I have purchased one Tambura for you costing Rs106/- from Dwarkin & Sons. They have allowed me 20% dis- count (special) on the price. This Tam- bura is going to be booked by air cargo to-morrow by Ramanuja. The charges will be too much. But hence forward you can order directly to M/S Dwarkin & son, 8/2 Esplanade East, Calcutta-1. The price is Rs 125/= Less 20% and there will be no sale tax charges if you send the amount by Bank draft in dollar direct to the firm. The will pack & ship the instruments by surface which will be very cheap. Always order in the ISKCON Stationary which are printed with my name. ACB OCTOBER, 1967 237 67-10-19 26th October, 1967 My dear Jadurani. Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 20 & Iam very glad to note the contents. The brahma- carini ashram is not yet started. You should not bother about it at the present moment. When the brahmacarini ashram is estab- lished then you should consider going. Most probablly I also will go to San Fran- sisco directly from India. When I am there I shall see if your presence is actually re- quired there. In the meantime you can con- tinue with your painting as usual & enjoy the spiritual life. In the Scriptures it is said that a woman is just like fire & a man is just like a butter pot. The butter melts in the pot while in contact with fire. In your country association of man and woman is very common without restriction; thus the result is known to you better than I am able to explain. In spiritual life attraction of man & woman in the understanding of material body hampers very much, therefore, some sort of restrictions are necessary to check this hampering problem. In spiritual life there is no allowance of association of man and woman without being married. I have already secured my visitors visa & have ad- viced my travel agent to purchase my ticket via the pacific route, & I have already se- cured my passage money. So on any day I can start for your country, but recently I’ve received from Mukunda stating that he is arranging for my permanent visa which will enable me to move freely. I’ve already asked him to let me know whether I should wait or start on the visitors visa. I have seen the latest issue of BTG & have very much appreciated the presenta- tion with your combined efforts-you art- ists & poets should try to increase the beauty of BTG as well as to promote the sales in larger & larger numbers. Your ap- preciation of Rayarama’s effort is also shared by me in improving the condition of BTG. You can keep & stack your paint- ings & when I return] shall see where they will be most required. Regarding Kirtananda, there is noth- ing to be said about but one should be very careful not to fall sick like him. In the ma- terial world there is constant fight be- tween maya & the living entity. Maya is very strong & we can fall a victim at her hand at any moment. The only means of protecting us from the attack of maya is to be fully Krishna Conscious. The propor- tion in which we fall back in Krishna Con- sciousness is filled up by the influence of maya. It is exactly like the proportion of negligence of our health is subsequently resulted in our falling ill. The person who is very careful about his health does not generally fall ill. Similarly a person who is always fixed up in Krishna Conscious- ness cannot be defeated by maya. Some- times in spite of our full Krishna Consciousness we fall a victim to maya but that is temporary just as seasonal changes such calamities do come & pass away & we have to endure them. If Kir- tananda has ever sincerely served Krishna, & his spiritual master, he will not fall down. The temporary systems will fall down without delay. We should all pray to Krishna for his steady recovery. My grief for Kirtananda isn’t anything personal but I am sorry that he has be- come like a mayavadi in spite of my best efforts to help him. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-20 26th October, 1967 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I have al- ready duly received the invitation from Harvard University. It is understood that 238 Letters from Srila Prabhupada they are scheduling me for 20 Nov. be- tween 6 and 10 PM. I can start immedi- ately on the strength of my visitors visa, but I am waiting for Mukunda’s reply who is trying for my permanent visa. Yester- day we have all come to Navadwipa. This place is another establishment of one of my Godbrothers. It is very nice and exten- sive place and my God-brother, B.R. Sridhar Maharaj has spared one entire nice house for my stay. He has also agreed to cooperate with our society. We shall ob- serve his birthday ceremony tomorrow and the brahmacaries shall learn how to celebrate spiritual master’s birthday. I hope to reach your state by the 20 of No- vember. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Calcutta 27th October, 1967 67-10-21 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. My bless- ings are for you for the latest nice edition of BTG’s. Iam so pleased for your sincere endeavour for improving the quality & quantity of BTG. Krishna is helping you in this endeavour & he will help you more & more for your sincerekty. Our circula- tion manager. Sriman Gargamuni, is surely taking great interest in seeling the copies. Regarding Kirtananda’s article, I do not know wheat he has written but Ican guess that it must be polluted with imper- sonal poison, so for the time being you can keep this article aside. I was so glad to learn that you are acting exactly like a lion cub & I know that in the future you shall conquer ever many jackals. We have got experience in India that the jackals roar four times at night without any influence but the one roar of a lion drives away many elephants. The pressure Maya is elelphant-like, big, but the roaring of Nri- singhadeva can drive away many ele- phants. Please convey my thanks to Satyabrata (Moskowitz) & inform him that I’ve received hisletter. His humble at- titude is just befitting a genuine devotee. I very much appreciate his devotional atti- tude. Hope youare well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-22 28th October, 1967 My dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I’ve re- ceived your note along with Brahmanan- da’s for first time since you left to N.Y. You had no desire to stop in London. This is clear to me from Hayagriva’s letter which indicated that you had already planed to go there even before you left In- dia. Since you have returned to N.Y. you have falsely dictated that I do not want the robes or flags. Why are you disturbing the whole situation in my absence. I never or- dered you to speak like that. They must continue to have robes & telok & flags & they must distinguish themselves from the hippies. I never objected to any of my stu- dents dressing like nice American gentle- man, clean shaved; but those who are my disciples must have flag, telok & beads on the neck without fail. Anyway I never ad- vised you to dictate on my behalf. Please therefore do not misrepresent me. You have been given sannyas to follow my principles & not to disturb me. If you do not agree with my philosophy you can work independently and not within the walls of ISKCON. You have not OCTOBER, 1967 239 understood Krishna properly. The best thing will be to stop your talks till my re- turn & if you love me at all please do not talk in any meeting but chant in solitary place - anywhere you like. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-10-23 28th October, 1967 My Dear Aatie, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Oct. 19 & I am so happy that a boy of 17 years can feel so nicely about Krishna Con- sciousness. I am so happy that the Krishna Consciousness movement is at- tracting young innocent hearts of America. From this I can think that the fu- ture of this movement is very hopeful. I was very glad to learn that you are follow- ing our four principle rules, therefore your picking up of the process of acquir- ing spiritual knowledge from Bhagavad Gita is very nice. In the Bhagavad Gita it is said that one should “prostrate oneself at the feet of the wise, rendering him all forms of service & question him with a guileless heart again & again”, is the only means to attain spiritual knowledge. The process of speculation without approach- ing the bon-a-fide spiritual master is sim- ply a waste of time. In the Chaitanya Charitamrita, Lord Chaitanya affirms this principle, when he says that a fortunate living being while wandering in different spiecies of life gets the chance of meeting a bon-a-fide spiritual master by the cause- less mercy of Krishna. In the Vedic litera- ture there is a nice story about Dhruva. This Dhruva understood from his mother when he was only five, that God can be found in person in the forest. Dhruva went to the forest in seardh of God. The Lord Narayana in heaven or in the heart of Dhruva understood the sincerity of Dhruva’s purpose & sent Narada, His great disciple to initiate Dhruva in the matter of Krishna Consciousness. This incident confirms that by the grace of Krishna, Dhruva was able to get the help of Narada as his spiritual master. There- fore, Krishna Consciousness is a parallel process in worshipping the Supreme Per- sonality of Godhead & the Spiritual mas- ter simultaneouly. Your desire to become the servant of the servant of Krishna is very pious. Lord Chaitanya desired the same thing in order to set an example, though he was Krishna Himself. The Bha- gavad Gita confirms this. I am so pleased to learn that you are all living in the Brahmacary house with Jayananda & Up- endra & Iam more pleased that you are all working. Everyone can achieve the high- est perfection of life by working in his spe- cific capacity. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for sending me a record player by air freight, but since you have not mentioned that it is an unsolicited gift, customs has raised objections & they want to levy duty to the extent of 100 rps. Please immediately send a letter ad- dressed to Calcutta Customs stating that the record player was sent to me as an un- solicited gift. Send the letter to: S.K. Dutta, 76 Durga Charan Doctor Rd., Calcutta, 14. Also please let me know if I should start on the visitors visa or whether I should wait for your perma- nent visa arrangement. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 240 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 67-10-24 29th October, 1967 My dear Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I was very pleased to receive your letter. I have come to Navadwipa since I’ve recieved your let- ter, the birthplace of Lord Chaitanya. We came herelast Tuesday & probably I shall return to Calcutta early next week. Regarding the Teachings in the tem- ple; everyone of my disciples may become a teacher strickly following my instruc- tions. I am a bon-a-fide teacher as long as I follow the instructions of my spiritual master. That is the only one qualification for becoming a teacher. As soon as one deviates from this principle one is no- longer a teacher. I do not know how Subal das speaks but if there is any deviation you can point it out & adjust things between yourselves. Personally I know both your- self & your husband, Dayananda, are very sincere souls & I am much obliged to you because you have opened a nice center in L.A. Similarly, Subal das also opened a center at Santa Fe. All this activity is very encouraging to my mission & I believe sincerely that you are doing the best ot serve the cause of ISKCON. I have already arranged for going back to your country & Ihave secured a visitors visa & the passage money is also depos- ited with the travel agent, so the only thing is that Mukunda is trying to get my perma- nent visa & I am waiting for his final word in this connection. I thank you very much for your proposal that I shall stay at L.A. & you will arrange for all my conforts. I am looking forward for the opportunity. From India I shall first go to San Fran- cisco & then to your place. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I was very glad to receive your letter dated Oct. 20. I can understand your anxity about your husband & rest assured that I shall never advice your husband to leave you. Both of you are very good souls & constantly en- gaged in the service of the Lord. One who has got a helpful wife at home does not re- quire to accept Sanyas. If required, both you and your husband can preach Krishna Consciousness combinedly. We are con- cerned more forKrishna Consciousness & if that work is executed more nicely by co- operation of husband & wife, there is no necessity of thinking wife as impediment to Krishna Consciousness. While i am living you should act according to my in- structions & there is no question of im- pediment. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NOVEMBER 67-11-1 2nd November, 1967 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters dated 24 & 25 Oct. respectively. I may say that in reply to your letter of Oct 24, you may go to En- gland around the first of Dec. or when- ever you find it convenient. There is no hurrying the attempt. In the meantime go on improving the condition of BTG which you are doing very nicely with the coop- eration of your very respectable God- brothers. Regarding Kirtananda, I cannot allow him to become Keith again. He is my spiritual son and I shall never allow him to fall down. When I return I shall drag him forcibly and make all right again. Anyone who has once come to me has become my beloved son; temporarily one may display some Mayic affliction, but that can not prolong. I thank Lord Krishna for Satyabrata (Moskowitz) and Woompati and I hope sincerely that Kir- tananda will also come back again with renewed energy. I am glad that Hayagriva has returned the manuscript of Gita and I understand from Bramananda’s letter that they are being made ready by professional typist. From Madhusudan’s letter it is un- derstood that MacMillan has agreed for paper back printing. Anyway get it ready and print it immediately anywhere you like without delay. I requested Satyabrata (Moskowitz) to publish Lord Chaitanya’s teachings which is ready with Satsvarupa. Thakur Bhaktivinode’s book Sri Chaita- nya Mahaprabhu may be printed in thou- sands and distributed. If Isoupanishad is also printed it will be very nice. I shall take one copy of Bramha Samhita and I shall try to print it. I have decided to re- turn back with visitors visa as adviced by you. Therefore I am returning to Calcutta tomorrow and my next address will be as it is in the return address. You can send by surface mail our latest BTG copies to (copies #14, 15 & onward) Balendranath Nath Kundu B.A., B.Sc., B.T. P.O. Teacher and Jurnalist P.O. Nabadwipa District Nadia, W.B., India Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Haimavati, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 26 Oct. and I may advice you that in your pregnant condition you may not take any pungent foodstuffs. Your husband knows how to prepare nice chappaties and you can take them nicely buttered. Don’t be mortified with Kirtananda’s behavior. The present feature of Kirtananda and Hayagriva are temporary manifestation of maya. They will be corrected as soon as I return. You have rightly said that he and Hayagriva came like two children and took their things from the temple. Don’t you think that all this is childish activities? If Kir- tananda donated the candle holders and clothes to the Temple of Krishna how could he take them back for his own pur- pose. If they think impersonally that Krishna is present everywhere, how could they think of Krishna not being present in 242 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda the New York Temple. So all their activi- ties are befitting children; so as children commit mistakes and again reforms simi- larly they will be reformed in due course. After their malady of impersonalism is over. You can go on with you regular classes, chanting Hare Krishna sincerely, without taking seriously into account the childish activities of Kirtananda and his friend. Leave the to Krishna. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-2 Nabadwipa 2nd November, 1967 My dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 24th Octo- ber 1967. Kirtananda was awarded the po- sition of a Sannyasi because he wanted it although I could understand it that he wanted to be a spiritual master him self. Lord Chaitanya wanted every one should be a spiritual master provided he follows the order of Lord Chaitanya. The Lord’s mission was to defeat the Mayavada phi- losophy and establish in the philosophy of Krishna consciousness because Krishna is the Supreme Lord the Personality of Godhead. Any one following the order of Lord Chaitanya under the guidance of His bonafide representative, can become a spiritual master and I wish that in my ab- sence all my disciples become the bona- fide spiritual master to spread Krishna Consciousness throughout the whole world. I want it but Kirtanananda was too much puffed up and artificially he took up a certificate from me that he has been awarded the order to a Sannyasi, In the spiritual field nobody can become a bona- fide spirtual master by dissatisfying his spiritual master. It is said that one can sat- isfy the Supreme Lord simpy by satisfying the spiritual master and one who dissats- fies the spiritual master has no place in the spiritual world. Kirtananda wanted to be- come a spiritual master by dissatisfying his spiritual master and as such he has fallen down. He cannot say anything gen- uine any more till he has had revival of his pure consciousness in the spiritual world as mentioned above. Differentiation be- tween spirit & matter is clear & practical experience, when a living creature is dead no amount of material advancement of science can bring back a dead body to life. The thing which is absent from a dead body is the spirit. As there is individual spirit in individual body, similarly there is the Great Spirit in the universall material form. As the individual spirit is working systematically within the individual mate- rial body, similarely, the Supreme Spirit is conscious of the universal body. The lord knows what is happening in each & every planet as much as an individual soul knows what is happening in each & every part of his body. Therefore, the individual consciousness which is limited, when dovetailed with the Supreme Conscious- ness of the Lord is called Krishna Con- sciousness. When I return some of you shall be offered Sacred Thread. I very much appreciate your version that RAy- arama is roaring like a Lion-cub. I wish that every one of you should be Lion’s de- scendent. Our Lord Krishna assumed the form of Lion & killed the atheist, Hiranya-kasipu, & by disciplic succession we shall also kill all impersonalist atheist. Absolutely there is no Krishna Con- sciousness for the impersonalist. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. Now I un- derstand that I may return with my visitors visa which can be altered once I am in NOVEMBER, 1967 243 USA. If MacMillan is silent then immedi- ately send me the correspondence which Dwarkadhish had with the Japanese printers. Most probably I shall stop in To- kyo & hand over the printing to them. Hope you are well. ACB 67-11-3 4th November, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 22 and I’ve noted the contents. I am much obliged to you for sending me the record player which is essential but I could save the customs duty of 120 rps if you could have sent a note stating that it was an unso- licited gift. Anyway the machine was re- ceived intact and I am enjoying it. But I have not heard anything definitely whether I shall wait for the final disposal of your visa application or if I may start immedeately. As you say that my absence is being felt now more deeply than ever, so I also feel to start immediately without waitnng. The morning prayer can be recorded when I return. If there is actually a brahmacarini ashram organized by San Francisco devo- tees, it will be very nice to keep there Judarani as the leader of the brahmacari- nies. I am very glad that two other devo- tees are waiting for me. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. Every minute I think of you and and as you asked me to go to San Francisco while returning from India, I am trying to fulfill my prom- ise. I am thinking of going directly to San Francisco. Please offer my blessings to Shamashunda, Malati, and others. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-4 Sth November, 1967 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. In reply- ing your letter of Oct 21, I offer to you my sinceremost blessings for the most kind words that you have sent me as a sincere devotee. This attitude of service will help you progress in Krishna Consciousness and perfect Krishna Consciousness will help us to go back to home, back to God- head. I have already sent you my congrat- ulations for improving the get-up of BTG and I am sending news to Goursundar for his wonderful service to the cause. I’ve received one letter from Hayagriva ex- pressing his sorrow about Kirtananda’s plight in relation with his God-brothers. He has complained that some of the boys had spat upon Kirtananda’s body and it is a fact it is the most regrettable incident. The fact is that once combined in Krishna Consciousness, one cannot be separated at any time but the incident of separation from the society of Kirtananda and Haya- griva is accidental. I had advised that Kir- tananda should be asked to not speak but I never asked that he should not enter the Temple. We invite outsiders to come and hear our kirtans but I think Kirtananda might have been disturbing the peace of the Temple and therefore you all asked him not to enter the Temple. I do not know what had actually transpired but the incident is not very happy. If possible the boy who had spat upon Kirtananda in the presence of Hayagriva must be requested to send a letter of regret and apology for 244 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the mistake he had done. I have already given you a list of good behavior for the devotees. The person who is a devotee must develop those good qualities. Kir- tananda’s attempt to defy me might have provoked all these undesirable inci- dences, but in the future we shall be very much careful to deal in such provocative situations; I can understand the provoca- tion in this situation was set in motion by Kirtananda’s uncalled for behavior. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. Replying your letter dated Oct. 21, I quite appreci- ate your statement and I am happy that you have now taken care of the Gita Mss. I have already written to Hayagriva that the instructions which I impart are not dog- mas. Our instructions are all based on suf- ficient logic and philosophy. The thing is that while conducting missionary activi- ties it is quite natural that sometimes the situation may become very provocative, but we have to deal in these matters very carefully. The boy who spat upon the per- son of Kirtananda must send a letter of re- gret and apology. That will be nice. You should always try to pacify the living enti- ties in their rebellious propensities. These individual propensities are factual evi- dence for their becoming individual enti- ties. If everything would have been impersonal there would have been no scope for the individual manifestations. It is understood that Hayagriva will pur- chase the property at Wilkes-Barr with the help of Dr. Henderson’s financial as- sistance. I do not mind that they will do something separately, but I wish that there may not be any misbehavior betweem the God-brothers. I think you can write Haya- griva a personal letter regretting the inci- dent which had unfortunately occurred, namely spitting over the person of Kir- tananda. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Blanche, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter appreciating Krishna Consciousness movement. As stated by you, it is truly a happy move- ment. Lord Chaitanya said that the ocean of Krishna Consciousness increases daily and it is never experienced in the case of mundane ocean. In other words, nobody is static in Krishna Consciousness and ev- eryone becomes a dynamic force for spreading the movement. It is understood that you have been in the Temple for not a very long time and still you have appreci- ated very much the spiritual movement. Try to read our book and you will advance more and more. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-5 9th November, 1967 My dear Rayaram, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated. Oct. 28, 1967. It certainly is very good news that MacMillion Co. may now agree to pub- lish Gita Upanishad in a soft cover edition and is considering the hard cover very se- riously. In one other letter Brahmananda writes that there is not yet contract signed. So I do not know what exactly is the posi- tion. But under any circumstances, the MSS must be made ready. I do not follow you when you write to say that Hayagriva won't deliver the MSS. If he does not re- turn it then how are you going to publish it and how are you going to edit it. In two previous letters you write that he has al- ready returned it. In letter of Oct. 21, you NOVEMBER, 1967 245 write ‘‘Hayagriva has left the manuscript of Gita with me and I am going to have it typed and sent to you, a few chapters at a time.” In letter of Oct. 25 you write “T ve been working on the manuscript which Hayagriva returned to me’’. In this letter you wrote to say that he is trying to obvi- ously punish us by not returning same. The quarrel amongst yourselves, the God- brothers is not very much palatable. I am now thinking about our society. We were very smoothly going on but this disrup- tion created by Kirtananda has plagued and disturbed the situation. The best thing is to do our duty nicely with faith in Krishna and everything will be adjusted. You are nicely doing BTG. The separation of Kirtananda and Hay- agriva is not a very happy incident. I was practically in tears for their attitude of separation on such flimsy grounds. In other words it is my incapability that I could not save these two souls, but this a great evidence that every soul is indi- vidual. The nonsense theory of oneness becomes null and void by the evidence presented in this incident. But we should not be angry with these poor souls. Try to convince them by argument and reason but do not become angry with them. Lord Nityananda when he was dealing with Ja- gai and Madhai maintained the maximum amount of tolerance and patience in spite of the greatest provocation. The two brothers, Jagai and Madhai, committed violence on Lord Nityananda. Even Lord Chaitanya, the author of Siksastak, be- came agitated. But Lord Nityananda Pra- bhu in the matter remained calm and quiet and delivered the two rascals to the high- est elevation. We should always try to rep- resent Lord Nityananda Prabhu in the matter of preaching work. Kirtananda is a crazy man. That is proved. He says that he has become equal to the spiritual master but he is such a fool that he does not understand the principle of disciple even in ordinary worldly af- fairs. Even if one becomes equal to the spiritual master in education and knowl- edge, still one has to maintain the disci- plinary principle of obeying one chief man in any establishment. If such disciple is not maintained, no establishment can make any progress. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-6 11th November, 1967 My dear Bramhanada, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to see your letter dated Nov. 3, in which you have sent the good news that MacMillion Co. has agreed to publish my Gita Upanishad and the contract has been prepared. This service is done by you is a great asset for our society’s future activi- ties. The quotation as you have given from my letter of Ocr. 11, just stands. I do not want crowd of Kirtanandas but I want a single soul like Brahmananda, Mukunda, Rayarama, and Satsvarupa. The same ex- ample is always applicable that one moon is sufficient for the night as not thousands of stars. Please carefully handle the deal- ings with MacMillion Co. which was be- gun by your good self. If publications are there we can work from one center only like New York or San Francisco for propa- gating our cult all over the world. Let us stick to the publication of BTG more and more nicely and publish some Vedic lit- eratures like Srimad Bagavatam, Chaita- nya Charitamrita, etc. I’ve received one telegram from Mukunda, reading as fol- lows: SWAMIJI BRAHMANANDA AND I AGREE YOU START IMMEDI- ATELY ADVISE EXACT ARRIVAL— MUKUNDA in reply to this, I may say that Iam expecting my P-Form sanctioned 246 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and most probably I shall be starting sometime next week. IfI stop in Tokyo for a day to probe if there is any possibility of starting a center. From Tokyo I shall let Mukunda know by telegram when I am exactly arriving in San Francisco. From San Francisco I shall try to go to see our two new centers, namely Los Angles and Sante Fe. I have read your statements regarding opening centers. I am not in agreement with Mr. Altman that we are expanding very thinly. In my opinion, a single sin- ceresoul can maintain a center. You know I started the center at 26 2nd Ave. alone. I took the risk of 200.00 dollars per month for the rent. At that time there were no as- sistants. Mukunda was at that time a friend but there was no responsibility for him for maintaining the center. Gradually Kirtananda and Hayagriva joined but they did not take any responsibility. Still I was maintaining the establishment simply de- pending on Krishna and then Krishna sent me everything—men and money. Simi- larely, if a sincere soul goes out and opens a center in any part of the world Krishna will help him in all respects. Without be- ing empowered by Krishna, nobody can preach Krishna Consciousness. It is not academic qualification or financial strength which helps in these matters, but it is sincerity of purpose which helps us always. Therefore, I wish that you will re- main in charge of New York, let Sats- varupa be in charge of Boston, Let Mukunda be in charge of San Francisco, let Janardan be in charge of Montreal. Let Nandarani and Dayananda be in charge of Los Angeles. And let Subal das be in charge of Santa Fe. In this way you will follow my example as I did in the begin- ning at 26 2nd Ave. That is preaching, cooking, writing, talking, chanting every- thing one man’s show. I never thought about the audience. I was prepared to chant if there were no man to hear me. The principle of chanting is to glorify the Lord and not to attract a crowd. If Krishna hears nicely then he will ask some sincere devotee to gather in such place. There- fore, be advised that thousands of centers may be started if we find out a sincere soul for each and every center. We do not re- quire more men to start. If there is one sin- cere soul that is sufficent to start a new center. With this expectation I wanted to send Kirtananda to London but he has proved himself unworthy. When I arrive in your state, I may ask Rayarama to go to London and your good self to Russia and Gargamuni to Holland. The incident cre- ated by Kirtananda and Hayagriva may not disappoint us in the least. Let us remain sincere to Krishna andHis bon a fide rep- resentative and we are sure to carry out our mission successfully. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-7 11th November, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 5, in- cluding the air waybill but before this, I had cleared the recordplayer paying a duty of 120.o0Rps. So there is no more any chance of getting back this money. But your timely dispatching the machine is very much appreciated by Krishna and I thank you very much for this prompt ser- vice. Regarding your telegram; I may in- form you that I am starting sometime next week. I shall inform you as soon as I book my ticket of my time of arrival (ETA). Re- garding your business, I have seen many merchants who will supply us incense, NOVEMBER, 1967 247 frankincense, sarees, musical instru- ments, dancing ghungru(jingle bells for feet) etc. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-8 12th November, 1967 My dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 4. I am very soon coming to San Francisco. I will let you know the exact date sometime next week. In Krishna Consciousness there is variety but there is no discord. We may fight with one another on the point of serving but that is not a discord. We must stick to the service of the Lord very seri- ously & that will help us make progress. In this connection I have written one let- ter, to Brahmananda the portion in which you may be interested is sub-joined herein. “I do not want a crowd of Kirtanandas, but I want a single soul like Brahmananda, Mukunda, Rayarama & Satsvarupa.. . I have seen your statement regarding open- ing centers. I am not in agreement with Mr. Altman that we are expanding very thinly. In my opinion a single sincere soul can maintain a center. You know, I started the center at 26 2nd Ave. alone. I took the risk of $200. rent. At that time there were no assistants. Mukunda was a friend, but there was no responsibility for him for maintaining the center. Gradually Kirtan- anda and Hayagriva joined but they did not take any responsibility. Still, I was main- taining the establishement simply depend- ing on Krishna and then Krishna sent me everything; men & money. Similarly, if a sincere soul goes out and opens a center in any part of the part, Krishna will help him in all respects. Without being empowered by Krishna nobody can preach Krishna Consciousness. It is not academic qualifi- cation or financial strength which helps in the matter, but it is sincerity of purpose which helps us always. Therefore I wish that you will remain in charge of Boston. Let Mukunda be in charge of San Fran- cisco. Let Janardan be in charge of Mon- treal, Nandarani and Dayananda be in charge of Los Angeles. And let Subal das be in charge of Santa Fe. In this way, you will follow my example as I did in the be- ginning at 26 2nd Ave. That is preaching, cooking, writing, talking, chanting, ev- erything one man’s show. I never thought about the audience. I was prepared to chant even if there were no men present to hear me. The principle of chanting is to glorify the Lord & not to attract a crowd. If Krishna hears nicely then he will ask some sincere devotee to gather in such place. Therefore be advised that thou- sands of centers may be started if we find out a sincere soul for each & every cen- ter.” More when we meet. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. You will read the letter of your husband & try to know my mind. I am coming very soon to see you when everything will be adjusted. Hope you are well. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-9 13th November, 1967 My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings! I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 8, 1967. You have written to say that your 248 Letters from Srila Prabhupada wife and you have a problem on which you require my help. The whole world, begin- ning with the highest planet to the lowest in this material world is facing this prob- lem. Combination of husband and wife is a necessary satisfation of the sex urge. The foolish people see everyday this prob- lematic situation, still thy are not intelli- gent enough to avoid it. Training of Bramhacary life is especially meant for this purpose, and a student is adviced not to indulge in sex life just to avoid these problems. It is very difficult to satisfy a woman by a person who has no good in- come, neither very good health. The woman as a class wants sufficient means to eat, and decorate and at the same time full satisfaction of sex. Any husband who cannot satisfy his wife by these three items, namely sufficient food, sufficient dress and ornament, and sufficient satis- faction of sex, must meet all these prob- lems. And as soon as one becomes engaged in solving these problems it is very difficult to make any progress in Krishna Consciousness. If one is serious to make any success in the matter of Krishna Consciousness, one should avoid the association of woman as far as possi- ble. Married life is a sort of licence to the incapable man who cannot avoid sex-life. On this statement, you can understand your real position. I do not agree with your wife’s statement that New York is un- fit for human habitation. A real Krishna Conscious person can adjust things nice- lyeven in hell. A fully Krishna Conscious person is always in transcendental posi- tion and he is not afraid of any place which is so called, unfit for human habitation. A Krishna Conscious person is always satis- fied whether in Vaikuntha or in hell. His satisfaction is not the particular place but his sincere service attitude towards Krishna. I have no objections if your wife and you go to San Francisco and live there peacefully as man and wife concentrating your attention for Krishna Conscious- ness. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-10 15th November, 1967 My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 9, 1967 and have noted the contents very carefuly. The Kirtananda incident is cer- tainly very unhappy and your dealing with the situation is quite appropriate. Lord Chaitanya composed the verse that one should be humbler than the straw and more tolerant than the tree for chanting the Holy Name of Krishna, but the same Author learning the insult committed upon the person of Lord Nityananda be- came furious and the Lord wanted to im- mediately kill the insulter. The idea is that personally, one should be very meek and humble even in the presence of greatest provocation, but a slight insult to Krishna and His Representative should at once be taken seriously and appropriate measures should be taken. We should never tolerate any insult or blasphemy to Krishna or His Representative. So your action was quite all right, but because we are in the public eyes we have to act cautiously so that peo- ple may not misunderstand. Anyway, for- get the chapter, there is nothing to be lamented. If thousands of Kirtanandas or Hayagrivas come and go. We have to pros- ecute our real program being sincere to Krishna and Krishna-Chaitanya. I am just ready for starting for America but as you know our competent government is very slow in action. The P-form was submitted almost a month ago, but still it is going un- der red tapism. The visa was granted to me within half an hour. The passage money was deposited within two days but NOVEMBER, 1967 249 unfortunately the Reserve Bank of India is delaying the matter unnecessarily. I ex- pect the P-form at any moment and as soon as I get it I shall start for your coun- try. I understand that you want Subal to go to Amsterdam but who will take care of the Sante Fe Temple? I think Subal and his wife shouldtakecare of the Sante Fe Tem- ple, as much as Dayananda and Nan- darani should take care of the Temple at Los Angeles. Once a center is opened it must be maintained. A responsible man for each center must be found out before opening. In your previous letter you wrote something about difficulties in our differ- ent centers, therefore you should be cau- tious before opening any further centers. Regarding Gargamuni and Karunamay- ee’s problem, I have already replied and if required, you can see his letter. My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters, Nov. 7 & 8, 1967. The incident of Kirtananda and Hayagriva chaptermay now be closed. We shall always pray to Krishna for their re- covery and we should not seriously take their counter propaganda. I am sure they will flap for some time without any effect on our Krishna Consiousness, service. Let us go ahead with our work and every- thing will be all right. Most important thing at present is to deal with MacMillan Co. Regarding editing of my books it was rightly entrusted to you from the very be- ginning but Kirtananda wanted that the editing should be done by Hayagriva. But I understand from your version that in some places of Gita Upanishad he has fol- lowed Swami Nikilananda who is quite unaware of Krishna Consciousness. By their present behavior it appears that Hay- agriva belongs to the same feather and Krishna has saved His Gita Upanishad by transferring the whole thing into your hands. Now please do your best and hand it over to MacMillan Co. for necessary action. We have tried our best in the Gita Upanishad that Krishna the Supreme Piersonality of Godhead is the Supreme Person and His energies acting imperson- ally. The divotees are primarily con- cerned with the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Krishna and His impersonal expansion of energy is of secondary im- portance to the devotees. Less intelligent asuras are attracted by the impersonal manifestation because they have no chance to meet Krishna face to face. In the last paragraph of your letter of the 7th, you have mentioned very nobly that you can work with me on the project of Srimad Ba- gawatam and it will be a great success of my mission if we jointly finish up com- plete Bhagawatam published by MacMil- lion Co. The chance is there, let us carefully handle up the situation and as soon as I return to the States, we shall take up Srimad Bhagawatam in the same Spirit as I have published First Canto. The MSS of Canto two & three is ready and if we jointly work on the other 9 cantos I shall feel very much obliged to you. If i can leave behind me the Srimad Bhagawatam, Gita Upanishad, and Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings, & if you continue to work in the spirit of pure Krishna Consciousness, surely we shall be able to do some tangible service to Humanity at large. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-11-11 18th November, 1967 My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. Replying your letter of Nov. 9, I beg to inform you that Kirtananda and Hayagriva’s recent standing is being directly dealt by me; at 250 Letters from Srila Prabhupada least Hayagriva is not as fanatic as Kir- tananda. His latest letter reveals that he is not out of Krishna Consciousness as we understand. The whole episode was gen- erated by personal grudge. This personal grudge is not inhuman and as I have told many times, that individualism is the cause of personal misunderstanding. Whensuch individualism is employed in the center of Krishna there is no harm even if there is personal misunderstand- ing. Personal misunderstanding exists even in the higher levels. There is compe- tition of loving Krishna even in the party of Srimati Radharani. It is a kind of rasa to compete in loving affection centering around Krishna. We shall, therefore, try to bring back Hayagriva and Kirtananda to their senses. After all we must understand that we are dealing with persons affected by Maya. Every one of us is under the in- fluence of the external energy, Maya. The best way to get out of the clutches of Maya is to concentrate our attention in the lov- ing service of Krishna. I understand that Hayagriva and Kirtananda are continuing to chant Hare Krishna is their center. I hoope therefore they will not go astray and the misunderstanding may be cleared up in due course of time. (Even amongst our God-brothers we have misunderstanding but none of us is astray from the service of Krishna. My Guru Maharaj ordered us to execute his mission combinedly. Unfortu- nately we are now separated. But none of us have stopped preaching Krishna Con- sciousness. Even if there was misunder- standing amongst the God-brothers of my Guru Maharaj none of them deviated from the transcendental loving service of Krishna. The idea is that provocation and misunderstanding may remain between one man and another. But our staunch faith in Krishna Consciousness may not allow any material disruption. Please therefore try to be sympathetic with any person even if they differ. The only quali- fication we have toscrutinize is if one is acting in Krishna Consciousness as far as one is able todo it.) Regarding BTG, it is understood that Rayarama is in some difficulty finan- cially. The recent editions of BTG is very much encouraging to me. The standard should be maintained and improved so that one day it may come on the level of such magazines as Life, Time etc. If he is in difficulty financially I think you can give him loan of $500.00 to be paid in monthly installments of $100.00. As he is now engaged in finishing Gita Upanishad, it is understood that he cannot work. The editing of Gita Upanishad is already much delayed. I think it was in this month of No- vember last year my compilation of Gita Upanishad was finished. The editing work was firstentrusted with Rayarama, but as he could not finish it the work was transferred to Hayagriva. In this way even within one year the editing work could not be finished. This is not very encouraging. Now it must be finished within three weeks and hand it over to MacMillian Co. Today I shall goto the travel agent’s office for booking my seat and may start by next Monday or Tuesday. In my next letter I shall let you and Mukunda know of my journey from Calcutta to San Francisco, via Bangkok, Hong Kong etc. Hope you are well. My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I have ad- vised Bramhananda to give you loan of $500.00 from the funds which are set aside by Brahmananda for publication of my books. The condition is that as promised by you, you must return the money by monthly installments of $100.00. Please be always strongly fixed up in the Lotus Feet of Krishna, just as the bees are fixed up in the honey comb. This staunch affection for Krishna will save us NOVEMBER, 1967 251 from all kinds of dangers created by Maya. You know it very well that the ma- terrial energy is so strong that it captivates the spiritual spark, living entity and the only remedy is to cling to the Lotus Feet of Krishna. This age is especially meant for dissention, therefore whenever there is such occsaion we should simply call for for the help of Krishna. Our task is very heavy because we have declared was ar- gainst Maya. She will always try to defeat us or even kill us but we can always be saved by clinging unto the Lotus Feet of Krishna. Kindly remember this secret of our success and try to convince all your God-brothers on this point. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-11-12 Calcutta 21st November, 1967 My dear Pradyumna, Satsvarupa and Judarani, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letters but have no time to re- ply them in detail as I am busy making hasty preparations to leave for the USA. I shall arrive on 24th November, 12:45 P.M. San Francisco time. Killing proposal is not good. We have to kill them with arguments and reasons not with sticks and weapons. Judarani—I am very glad that you want to kill the non-devotees. You should, how- ever, leave the matter to your good God- brothers who will take care of it. I am pleased to learn of your spirit of protest, but sometimes we have to tolerate. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-13 21st November, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. Today I have booked my seat for San Francisco. Please inform this news to all the devo- tees, My spiritual sons and daughters. I have sent you one cablegram reading as follows; Arriving 24th November 12:45 P.M. By PAA 846 More when we meet. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-14 22 November, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. You will be pleased to know that I am arriving in San Francisco on Nov. 24 at 12:45 PM by Pan Am. flight no. 846. I’ve sent this news to Mukunda. I am enclosing a sepa- rate letter authorizing you to sign the con- tract in my behalf. I’ve already written a letter to D.S. Agarwal and when he goes there Achyutananda will see him person- ally to settle up the matter. The books from Swami Bon are already with the shipping agent and will be sent with all my books mridangams and kartals on the 7th of December. Hope you are well, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 252 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 67-11-15 22nd November, 1967 Mr. Bruce Scharf c/o Iskcon Inc. 26 Second avenue New York 10003 NY Dear Mr. Scharf, Ihereby authorise you to sign the con- tract with Messrs. Macmillon and Co. in the matter of publishing my Geetopani- sad. You are also authorized to recieve payment on my behalf. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-16 23rd November, 1967 My dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated 15th Nov. 1967. You’re very anxious to see me back in New York and I may inform you that I had settled to be in San Francisco on the 24 of Nov. but due to a petty revolation in Calcutta I am notableto leave. Future ar- rangements are pending. I wish to go from San Francisco to the other two new branches and then return to New York. I am so glad to learn that you are now get- ting the fruit of chanting Hare Krishna. Hare Krishna is so nice that it clears the dirty things from the mind of the devotee and the more one is used to chant the Holy Name offencelessly, the more one de- velops love of God, forgetting the whole material nonsense. [It is my duty to de- liver you the right thing in right earnest- ness and it is the duty of the receiver to act in the standard spiritual regulation. When you left us I simply prayed to Krishna for your return to Krishna Consciousness be- cause that was my duty. Any good soul who approaches me once for spiritual en- lightenment is supposed to be depending on my responsiblity to get him back to Krishna, back to home. The disciple may misunderstand a bonafide spiritual master being obliged to do so under pressure of Maya’s influence. But a bonafide spiritual master never lets go a devotee once ac- cepted. When a disciple misunderstands a bonafide spiritual master, the master re- grets for his inablity to protect the disciple and sometimes he cries with tears in the eyes. We had an experience while my Guru Maharaj was alive. One of His disci- ples who accepted sannyas was one day forcibly draged by his wife. My Guru Ma- haraj lamented with tears in His eyes say- ing that He could not save the soul.] We should always, therefore, be careful in the matter of being attacked by Maya’s influ- ence and the only means of guarantee is to chant Hare Krishna offencelessly. The greatest offence is to defy the spiritual master and to act sinfully, thinking in the strength of chanting. If a man thinks that chanting will save him from all kinds of sinful reaction deliberately committed by him, then he becomes the greatest of- fender. By chanting Hare Krishna cer- tainly we become free from all sinful reactions, but that does not mean that we shall deliberately commit sins and coun- teract it by chanting. Your reference to Kirtananda and Hayagriva is very nicely appreciated. We shall silently pray for them to Krishna and shed tears for them for our inablity to save them. Let us hon- estly pray and go ahead with Krishna Consciousness. More when we meet. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Lynn, Please accept by blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter (undated) and I thank you for it. It is very nice and encouraging. Krishna Consciousness is so nice that if one takes part in it in either ways, like NOVEMBER, 1967 253 hearing, chanting, remembering, wor- shipping, praying, or even simply by eat- ing prasadam, the transcendental effect will be visible. I am very glad that you have developed these nice sentiments and now you are living with other devotees. If you continue like this I am sure you will make rapid progress in Krishna Con- sciousness. I am returning to San Fran- cisco very soon and soon after that I shall go to your city also. When I meet you, surely you shall be initiated. I thank you once more for you nice appreciation. 67-11-17 23rd November, 1967 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter Nov. 19, 1967 and I am sending by air mail the purports of verses 16-28 of the Ninth chapter. Please set them nicely and at the end if you add the general purport which you have written, I have no objections. My re- turn to your country is already settled. My ticket was booked for starting on 23rd Nov. but due to certain political strike my starting has been held up. I think that ev- erything will be alright by the end of this week and I may start by Monday next via Japan. You may not write anything to Miss Bowtell. I think she will not be helpful in our scheme. The best thing is that you fin- ish up the Gita Upanishad hand it over to Messrs. Macmillian Co. and then make practical progress to start for England. Certainly I shall be in need of your assis- tance in finishing Srimad Bhagwatam. On my return I shall make practical progress so that both of us may go on compiling Srimad Bhagawatam and opening differ- ent centers in all parts of the world si- multanously. We are completely depen- dent on the Supreme will of Krishna. Let us try our best to serve Him and He will give us all facilities in our mission. Our San Francisco friends may be very anx- ious because I sent them two telegrams, one informing of my arrival and the other cancelling it. You can inform them of the real position as you understand by this let- ter. The booklets which you have sent are very much appreciated. Printing and paint- ing are our life back bone. Our nice Guru who have been sentto us by Krishna are trying their best and I am sure we shall be successful. More when we meet. Hope you are well. Convey by blessings to all prabhus. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-11-18 28th November, 1967 My dear Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Nov. 16, 1967. I was as much anxious to return to San Francisco and then to your place Los Angeles. It was almost finalized that I should start on the 23rd Nov. but due to the political strikes in Calcutta things have taken a different turn. I am just waiting for the opportune moment. Most probably everything will be alright by the end of this week and I am start for your country by Monday next via Japan. Anyway, I am reaching your place as soon as possible. In the meantime have some patience till my arrival. I am very sorry that Subal das has assumed such air of importance. We should always remember that we are on the path of perfection, but we are not per- fect. If Subal das or anyone thinks that he has attained perfection he will be wrongly directed. I have asked you all to address your Godbrothers as prabhu. This prabhu means boss. If everyone of us thinks of his fellow worker as boss there is no question 254 Letters from Srila Prabhupada of misunderstanding. The mistake is that being addressed as boss or prabhu one thinks himself as exactly Prabhu or the boss. One should not forget himself as humble servant even though one is ad- dressed as prabhu. The spiritual master is offered respects as they are offered to the Supreme Lord. Unfortunately if the spiri- tual master thinks that he has become the Supreme Lord then he is doomed. A bonafide spiritual master always think of himself as the servant of the Lord. One should never forget be humble in dealings. If everyone of us would con- duct our business in that spirit of prabhu and servant then there is very little chance of being misunderstood. Some- times misunderstanding may take place but it should be adjusted in a spirit of ser- vice attitude to the prabhu. I know that my presence is very urgently required. Arrangement is already completed cir- cumstances alone have checked my departure. Please therefore don’t be wor- ried. I am coming to your place within a fortnight. Convey my blessings to Day- ananda and others. I am Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami DECEMBER 67-12-1 7th December, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I’m in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 30, and I duly appreciate your program for European tour, as well as coming to India for doing business. Actually we are experiencing Indian business dealing as not very prompt. The best thing is therefore to pur- chase goods ourselves from the firm, pack and book it all ourselves. SS Brijbasi has taken so much time for nothing, they do not even reply letters, but on the other hand they have promptly delivered Mu- kunda’s order, this means that business managing is not regular. You can send the copy of the letter to Achyutananda in which they have acknowledged payment. Achyutananda and Ramanuja will return to Vrindaban next week and I am starting for Japan on Sun or Mon positively. I shall try to get some Friends there and also try to meet Prof Rudolf stein in Hawaii. While I shall try to open some branches in the Pacific you can also try to open branches in parts of Europe as you have suggested in your letter under reply. I’m trying to find out some reliable man who can purchase goods and book them personally. If you come here it will be a nice idea, but you should come with money, purchase the goods and book them immediately. Air cargo will be too costly, we have already sent 1 tanpura to Mu- kunda and the cost was 106rs. but air cargo was 1,100 rs. So you cannot do business by paying 1 1 times more than the Cost for freight. Regarding books I’ve al- ready consigned along with mridangams harmoniums kartals and beads & bags. I have arranged for supplying incense with a gentleman here and I’m taking samples with me. Similarly I’ve arranged for sending spices and frankincense. The contact with Macmillan should be fin- ished before you leave. Your journey, as you have suggested is important for your touring in Europe. We cannot expect any tangible help from Miss Bowtell. She is not my godsister but a disciple of my god- brother. The best thing will be to start a center independently. Regarding beautifying the temple, we should always know that every place is temporary, but wherever we live we should decorate and beautify it for Krishna, so go on decorating our temple as nicely as possible. Hope you are well Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-2 8th December, 1967 My dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. You will be glad to know that after the petty trouble in Calcutta and the city being normal, I have today booked my ticket for San Fran- cisco via Tokyo. I am starting on Wednes- day morning (Dec. 13) reaching Tokyo the same day. I shall rest there for 24 hours and then start for San Francisco arriving at 12:45 p.m. on Dec. 14 by flight PAA 846. I have got one general introduction letter from the mayor of Calcutta and it may be that I shall be meeting important 256 Letters from Srila Prabhupada people there. You will be glad to know that I have ar- ranged with Messrs. Dwarkin & Son, 8/2 Esplanade East, Calcutta-1, to supply all knids of musical instruments to our soci- ety at a special discount of 20%. Ra- manuja has already written you about this thing. There is one company, the “American Mail Line” Navigation Ser- vice from Calcutta to San Francisco, Los Angeles, etc. They have got their office in San Francisco at #601 California Street. You can see the manager there and try to get free or concessional freight service for our temple goods. The only thing is that you have to impress upon them that Krishna Consciousness is an international organization for invoking man’s dormant spiritual life. You can show him our other literatures, records and activities to con- vince him in this regard. You can also in- form them that on the other side (Calcutta to New York) the Scindia Steam Naviga- tion Co. has already given us facilities. We have also arranged for incense supply with a nice factory in Calcutta. I am car- rying with me some varieties of samples. On the whole I have fixed up the carrying co., the musical co., the incence supply co., the cloth supply co., and all other things which you might require from In- dia. You have no difficulty in getting things and you can chalk out your own program. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-3 Calcutta 8th December, 1967 My dear Krishna Devi and Subal das, Please accept my blessings. I am glad to learn that you are going to re-open your Santa Fe temple. Please make it a point that once a center is opened should not be closed. I have already given charge of six temples to six boys. Youand your husband must take charge of the Santa Fe center and Krishna will bestow all blessings upon you. I shall be very soon one of your guests. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-12-4 12th December, 1967 My dear Bramhananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of Your letter Dec. 2, 1967 with great pleasure. I am so glad to learn that we are receiving orders for our re- cords from far distant places. It is all Krishna’s mercy. You will be pleased to know that I have purchased my ticket for New York via Tokyo and San Francisco. I am starting tomorrow morning at nine- thirty. By evening reaching Tokyo via Bangkok and Hong Kong. I shall rest 24 hours in Tokyo and on the 14th at night, I am starting for San Francisco. By local time I am reaching San Francisco on the same day, the 14th at 12:45 p.m. by P.A.A. 846. Yesterday I have sent one tel- egram to this effect, and I hope I shall reach there safely as scheduled. I am so glad to learn that Satyabrata and yourself are trying to get the teachings of Lord Chaitanya published. You do not know how pleased I am to hear this news. When one book is published I think I have con- quered an empire. So try to publish as many books as possible and that will en- hance the beauty and prestige of our soci- ety. The Ramakrishna mission has nothing to say substantial but because they have money and have published so many rubbish literatures they have become very cheaply popular. You can just imagin how much powerful our society will become DECEMBER, 1967 257 when we have as many substantial litera- tures published. We should not only pub- lish in English but also in other important languages such as French and German. I’ve also noted down your program for European tour. I am very glad that you are preparing the ground work for starting our centers in London, Amsterdam and Berlin. It may be that we can add another in Tokyo. Yes, we must have hundreds of such branches for preaching Krishna Consciousness all over the world. I have already made arrangements for supply of Sarees, incense, musical instruments, mridangams, cartals, spices, etc. I am also arranging to print 2 volumes of Sri- mad Bhagawatam in Delhi. Achutananda and Ramanuja are going back to Vrinda- ban on the 15th after sending me off for San Francisco. I am already in negotiations with the government of Rajasthan for securing one palace in Vrindavan. This house is per- haps the best house not only in Vrindaban but also it is one of the best palaces in all of India. When you arrive in India you will see it and you will be pleased. I am leaving behind my dictaphone and when you come here you will take it back to me. I quite appreciate your program for con- tributing $3,000.00 in the matter of pub- lishing Teaching of Lord Chaitanya. Please finish the contract with MacMil- lan, take $1,000.00 from them, add $1,000.00 from the reserve fund to you, and take $1,000.00 from Satyabrata and get the book published immediately. You should not waste too much time for editing as we have done in the matter of Gita Up- anishad. If there is good English it is wel- come but we should not edit as Hayagriva has replaced ‘devotional service” with “knowledge of self’. Knowledge of self is not complete until one is actually engaged in devotional service. There are many citizins who have complete sence of na- tional knowledge but out of many of them, one who is engaged in national service like Washington or Gandhi, he becomes the most prominent with national con- sciousness. Similarly, when one is mature in knowledge of self, he must knows what is the duty of the self. The impersonalist due to poor fund of knowledge, forgets of the self. They are much concerned for be- ing freed of all duties which is not possible by the living force. The living force is al- ways dynamic, therefore the living entity cannot stop discharging duties. Real duty begins in Krishna Consciousness. The impersonalist cannot accommodate such spiritual activities of devotional service therefore they are satisfied only by so- called knowledge of self. I shall expect your reply in San Francisco. With Bless- ings for all your God-brothers and sisters, Iam Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanata, Swami 67-12-5 12th December, 1967 My dear Jadurani, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter Dec. 3, 1967. You have described in your letter that my presence again before you will be wonder- ful. I quite agree with you. Your sincere prayer to Lord Nrishingadeva is helping me to recuperate my health., and you will be glad to know that I am arriving at San Francisco on 14 Dec. at 12;45 pm by PAA 846. I can understand that you are all thinking of me 24 hrs and therefore Sats- varupa had a dream that I had gone to Bos- ton and was enjoying your company. Similarly, I also think of you all, espe- cially of you because you are so nice and good. I understand also, there was a Kir- tan performance given by Shri Purna das. You have rightly remarked whether they are devotees. You are right. These people 258 Letters from Srila Prabhupada are professional singers. Krishna Kirtan is not for earning livelihood. Krishna Kirtan is not meant for entertaining the public for demonstration of arts. It is dynamic ser- vice to the Lord. We do not therefore mind so much about the artistic presentation of Krishna Kirtan but we want to see how much a devotee is satisfing the Supreme Will. The pictures of Lord Krishna and His expansions are particularly meant for giving chance to the neophytes for offer- ing devotional service. It was very nice that Purna das offered respects to the Samkirtan painting. That will enlarge Krishna Consciousness. Your programn for publishing pictures in details of great authorities like Bhishma and others is very much appreciated. I am so glad to learn that Rayarama, Satsarupa, yourself, Goursundar, Govindarani and others are doing so much for improving BTG. I quite appreciate your endeavours and you must continue the Mahajan series, and when- ever necessary you can ask me for neces- sary informations. I would advice, unless there is dire necessity, you should not di- vert your attention from painting. Some- how or other you have to manage everything in full cooperation, but your main engagement is painting. Your God- brothers, Achutananda and Ramanuja das are doing well here. We very much appre- ciate your offering of respects and they wish to convey the same to you. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta, Swami 67-12-6 San Francisco 14th December, 1967 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. On my ar- rival in San Francisco amongst my sincere spiritual sons, daughters and practically in my spiritual home in U.S.A., I was so glad to receive your encouraging letter of December 23, 1967. I have already sent you the purports of each and every sloka that you sent me for correction. I hope you may have received them by this time. If not, please write me and I shall send you another copy. Regarding your last but one paragraph of your letter under reply. I may inform you that you cannot be fool as you have humbly expressed yourself. Better to re- main an ever fool before the spiritual mas- ter. But if a disciple is actually fool it reflects on the spritual master. To think of becoming a fool is the real qualification for a bonafide disciple. As soon as one thinks that he has become the wiser man than the spiritual master one is surely doomed. We should remain everlastingly a fool before the spiritual master. Not arti- ficially but feelingly and then we can make real progress. Even my spritual master a great scholar remained a so called fool before His spiritual master Who was outwardly an illiterate village fellow. So in the Absolute world the fool is also the master and the master is also a fool in reciprocal exchange of dealings. Lord Chaitanya also accepted Himself a great fool before His spiritual master and all of us must follow the transcendental process. Regarding Miss Bowtell I have already written to you. If Pandit Rupavilas Brah- machari writes you in this connection you can reply him as I shall say. We cannot write directly to Rupavilas Brahmachary. If the Gaudiya H.Q. wants our coopera- tion why Miss Bowtell does not write Ru- pavilas Brahmachary. Otherwise end the negotiation, we shall do everything inde- pendently. Yes, you ignore the request of Miss Bowtell! As soon as you finish the Geeto- panishad business and the matter is DECEMBER, 1967 259 handed over to the McMillian Co. we be- gin on the Bhagwatam work without de- lay. Bhagvatam must be finished before my mortal body stops to work and your help in this connection will be very much helpful. You can stop for the time being the London scheme. Brahmananda is shortly going there and after his return, we may all go together to London and start a branch there in grand scale, so also in Amsterdam and in Berlin or Moscow. We have to save the world-people from the misconception of voidism and imperson- alism. “The absolute is sentient Thou hast proved all impersonal calamity Thou has moved.” These lines were presented by me to my spritual master and He was highly pleased with me. Let me follow the same principle and my Guru Maharaj will bless me. I have always my good wishes and blessings for you all because you are co-operating in a great mission. Thank you. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N. B. This evening I expected your call at 7 p.m. but I could not. At 7/10 pm I be- gan, my class lasted for 1 1/2 hours and then I left the temple. ACB 67-12-7 San Francisco 16th December, 1967 My Dear Advaita das Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated November 20, 1967. Yes, you can marry but wait until my arrival in N.Y. very soon. I have very much enjoyed your appreciation of my humble service to Krishna. Hope you are well. your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-8 16th December, 1967 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I was so much happy to receive your letter Nov. 21, 1967, on my arrival. I hope in the meantime you have received my letter from Calcutta. I also hope you might have received some pictures which were sent from Calcutta. If you can, send one offset copy of the horses and chariot of Arjuna. Govinda dasi may draw a small picture of the same chariot for printing on the front page of Back to Godhead. When I left your country on the 22nd of July, I had very little hope to come back again. But Krishna informed me that I’m not going to die immediately; therefore, I have come back again to get inspiration of Krishna Consciouness from you all good souls. Although officially Iam your Spiri- tual Master, I consider you all students as my Spiritual Master because your love for Krishna and service for Krishna teach me how to become a sincere Krishna Con- scious person. Yes, as I told you before, you can send all the different varieties of pictures to every center, especially the Samkirtan picture and Radha-Krishna picture. As you asked, the Pancha Tattwa paintings also. I understand that there are only three persons at Boston, but each of you can work for 300 persons, so it is not the nu- merical strength that works, but it is Krishna Consciousness that works. A Krishna Conscious person is never tired of working and the symptoms I can see in you as you want to be overloaded with work. This is the test of how one is ad- vancing in Krishna Consciousness. No- body becomes tired but wants to work more and more. Your God-brother 260 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Satsvarupa also told me the same thing that he may be overloaded with typewriting work. Similarly, Govinda dasi and Gour- sundar also want to be overloaded with work. So your examples are great encour- agement for an old man like me. I have got the same spirit of being overloaded with Krishna Conscious work, but physically I am not as strong as you are all young boys and girls. You can pray to Krishna that I may get your strength to serve the cause of Krishna Consciousness. Please convey my blessings to Sats- varupa and Pradyumna. Inform Sats- varupa that very soon I’m going to overload him with tapes for typing. My dictaphone is a little out of order (Garga- muni has taken charge of repairing it) and as soon as I get it back my work on Srimad Bhagwatam will begin. At the present moment, I have got some difficulty in sleeping. I cannot sleep more than 3 hours at night, and 1 hour in day. So if it con- tinues like that, and if I keep fit, I think I shall have ample time to work writing books. Hope you are well. Your Ever Well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Satswarupa, Please accept my blessings & convey the same to Pradyumna & others. I missed your telephone call but I under- stand that your center is doing well. When I go to New York I shall go to Boston. I understand that Damodar has gone to N.Y. with manuscript of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. I thank you for your sin- cere service. I pray Krishna for your more & more improvement in Krishna Con- sciousness. Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-9 16th December, 1967 My dear Suabl das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of 12/14/67 and have noted the contents carefully. I hop in the meantime you have received my letter posted yesterday. I have already advised you that once a center opens it cannot be closed. Therefore my advise is that Sri- mati Krishna devi may look after the cen- ter for a few days during your absence for N.Y. when the things are mature and come back within 2 or 3 days. And for 2 or 3 days Srimati Krishna devi will man- age and Krisnna will give her all protec- tion, don’g worry. I have already given you a business suggestion namely manu-. facturing incense locally. Once you are successful in this attempt you will get money more than your expectation and spend it for Krishna’s service. I hope you will understand me right and do the need- ful. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-10 San Francisco 16th December, 1967 My Dear Daughter Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to know that Krishna did not allow you to do something that was not His plan. Krishna wanted that both you and your husband must be engaged in organising nice center. Jayananda is unique devotee. He paid you sincerely and therefore as soon as you reached Santa Fe you found out a good place better than the former place. Please utilise your energy in this good task as I am sure success is awaiting you. If there is labor cheap you can organise DECEMBER, 1967 261 there some incense manufacturing con- cern. I wish that in every center we shall now manufacture incense very good quality. The only thing you have to as- sured to get the splinters or the thin sticks. If you think it will be possible to get, then immediately start the work. The ingredi- ents are the splinters, charcoal, starch or gum and essential oils. It will be very lu- crative business and the profits will be sufficient to maintain the center once you begin the work. I will give you many busi- ness ideas by which you can accumulate nice profits. For business four things are required. Namely place, labour, capital and organisation. For incense we have al- ready organisation. Little capital you are gathering. The poverty place means you can get cheap labour and the place you have already in your possession. Guid- ance, I am present. So do it immediately and there will be no scarcity of money. I hope you understand me right. Be an ideal couple of husband and wife in your country. Be Krishna Conciousness by full cooperation of husband and wife and you be happy both in this and the next life also .Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. On my ar- rival from India I am very much pleased to receive your letter of 12/13/67 and much encouraged to know that you have again found out a nice place in the city of Santa Fe to continue your transcendental activi- ties. I think it was Krishna’s desire that you should be induced to find out a better place in Santa Fe. My Guru Maharaj never liked to open a Branch preaching center in a place where there is less popu- lation. We are not meant for living peace- fully in a secluded place. We are meant for recuiting Krishna’s eternal servants and therefore a better populated place. Of course we don’t neglect the villagement but our first preference is to the cities. Please therefore organize the place nicely. Both you and Srimati Krishna devi are sincere worker for Krishna Conscious- ness and as such Krishna will never put you in difficulty, rest assured. Don’t be discouraged. Sit down tightly husband and wife. If nobody comes to hear, please chant and hear yourself. Success or fail- ure does not matter. On the Absolute world there is no such relativities as a suc- cess and failure. The one thing in the Ab- solute world is to serve Krishna. Don’t care for the result. Krishna must know that we are working very seriously and that is our success of life. I have explained tonight in the temple meeting that Krishna does not live in Vaikuntha nor does He live in the hearts of the yogi. But He lives there where His pure devotees chant His glories. You need not go to India spending money. When time will be mature I [PAGE MISSING] 67-12-11 17th December, 1967 My Dear Blanche Hochner, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter Nov. 21. I reply late because I have come back to San Francisco on the 14th Dec. I can under- stand your position in Krishna Conscious- ness from your letter and I reply it appears that Krishna Consciousness is acting upon you. You very rightly say that we cannot really give anything to Krishna because everything belongs to Him already. Therefore the energy which we have re- ceived from Krishna should be utilized for Krishna’s service. Devotional service means to apply one’s energy in the service of Krishna. That is the instruction of the Bhagavad Gita. You know that all our girl 262 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda disciples are applying their energy in the service of Krishna. Jadurany, Govinda dasi, and other girls, they are very sin- cerely applying their energy in the service of Krishna and I wish that you also do the same. Yes, we cannot understand about Krishna with our limited potency and senses, but if we engage ourselves in the service of the Lord, He will reveal Him- self to the faithful servitor. Adwaita has written me about your marriage. I think both of you should wait a little more till my arrival in N.Y. I shall personally perform your marriage cere- mony. You have rightly said that learning more and more about Krishna makes you so happy. The more we learn about Krishna from the authoratative sources, the more we can be attached in Krishna Consciousness. I shall chant all the beads today at the time of the initiation and send you by post tomorrow. Your initiated name will be Balai dasi. Hope you are well. Your ever wellwisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami San Francisco 17th December, 1967 67-12-12 My Dear Indira dasi (Iris Mendoza) and My Dear Ekayani dasi (Esther Mendoza), Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters and I am very glad to note the contents. I can understand that you have considerably advanced in Krishna Consciousness because your heart is simple. Girls and women are gen- erally very soft hearted and they take things very easily, but then there is also chance of being misled. So you chant the Holy Name of Krishna and Krishna will keep you from being misled. Last night there was initiation cere- mony in which your beads were sancti- fied. You’ll take on string of small beads for sticking on your neck and the bigger ones you can chant according to the rules. There are 10 kinds of offenses in chanting Hare Krishna and everyone should avoid such offenses. They are listed on the paper and you can have it from Brahmananda. Krishna Conscious- ness is very nice, simple, and sublime. If you stick to this principle, undoubtedly you’ll be happy both in this life and next life. For the present you should continue going to school because education is im- portant. Without education nobody has any social position and all our students in Krishna Consciousness are expected to be preachers. So preachers must have suffi- cient education because they have to meet with so many opposing elements. Educa- tion should be continued at the same time chanting should be continued. There will be no difficulty. I am very glad to learn you are chant- ing 48 rounds. Actually it is all right that one should chant 64 rounds, even 16 rounds, so if one is able to chant more than 16 rounds up to 64, it is very good. You fix up your rounds. Try to in- crease it but never decrease it. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami San Francisco 21st December, 1967 67-12-13 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Your handwritten letter of 12/18/67 is a great pleasure. Your handwritten letter is more valuable than type written. Regarding Da- modar’s plight, we are very sorry but we must always expect that some of the weak soldiers may fall down in a fight waged against the great Maya external energy of DECEMBER, 1967 263 Krishna. The sex attaction is very great in the material world. But in the spiritual world it is different. From Srimad Bhagwatam we know that the opposite sex namely the female members of Vaikuntha are many many times more beautiful than they are in the heavenly planets. Their hips and attractive smiles cannot stimu- late sex urge passion of the man or male devotees. In the Vaikuntha planets the op- ulence is very great and yet they are all en- gaged in the transcendental loving service of the Lord. It is very difficult to conquer over the influence of Maya, but who firmly fixed up in Krishna Conciousness cannot be a victim of Maya. Anyway, we cannot stop our fighting with Maya, nei- ther we can expect that all our soldiers will remain unhurt. You know Arjun’s son Abhimanya was killed in the battle in which Bhismadeva was a party. Fight Krishna’s cause sincerely and you will be gloried with victory. I was glad to hear from Gargamuni that you refused to set me in the N.Y. Times colums along with the other so called Swamis or yogis. We have a distinct position that we are neither cheated nor cheaters. We are the genuine representative of Krishna who is the friend of all living creatures. We must play our part independently only on faith in Krishna and His bonafide representa- tives. Krishna was very kind to me when He sent you tome for cooperating. My hearty thanks for you when you write to say that “Krishna Consciousness is the full per- fection of life”. Lord Chaitanya was eulo- gised by Rupa Goswami as the latter understood that Lord Chaitanya was there to distribute Krishna Consciousness. The only gift for the humanity at large. Lord Chaitanya wanted that the message should be distributed in every village and town of the globe. Let us do this service as far as possible in all seriousness. We can not make any compromise with anyone for cheap popularity. Regarding the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, it must be very nice. I think Dainippon Printing Company agreed to print our books 6 1/2x9 1/2” size best pa- per 400 pages 10 to 12 point composition with best hard back binding with gold let- tering on the backbone at $5000.00 for 5000 copies. I think you will immediately contact the company and send the manu- script for printing without any delay. Contact Dwarkadish and he will help you in this connection. He is good boy. Regarding business, Gargamuni has al- ready began the experiment and he will sendthe estimate for starting the business. If Mr. Kallman wants we can import ei- ther from India or from Japan. When you goto India, you let me know and I shall give you some introductory let- ters to Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi, Na- badwipa, Jaipur, Kanpur, etc. Perhaps you have to visit Udaipur also. But in Eu- rope wherever you will go, you must ar- range for opening a centre. May Krishna give you more and more strength my dear child. Iam very poor but Krishna is very rich. I can simply pray to Krishna. But Krishna is very great and magnanimous; He can do everything for you and for us all. Thanking you once more. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. While going to India please take with you the empty typewriter box (Ol ym- pia). This typewriter is with Achy- utananda and the case (box) is required there. And when you come back, you please bring back my personal books (3 or 4) left with Achyutananda. I am making here a series of lecture on K.C. yoga system. They are tape re- corded. If Mr. Kallman wants to make some gramophone records on this series of lectures, he can do so at least in those long time records. Please talk with him 264 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda and let me know if he is agreeable. I think the magnetic tapes for Dicta- phone are lying in my compartment. If so please send them here and oblige. Gargamuni’s first experiment in Dhupa mfg. has come out very success- ful. He is making more & more experi- ment. 67-12-14 21st December, 1967 My Dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Dec. 21, 1967. And I am glad to learn that you are getting strength in Krishna Consciousness so that you have decided to remain in the Temple in the absence of your husband. This is very nice. We should learn to de- pend on Krishna more and more. Actu- ally, Krishna is always guiding us as Supersoul, but due to our forgetfulness, we do not understand that Krishna is friend everlasting. With advance of Krishna Consciousess one is able to real- ize that Krishna is always with His devotees—not only with His devotees, also with the non-devotees, but the devo- tees can recognize His Presence and the non-devotees cannot. The more you make advancement in Krishna Consciousness you will see Krishna everywhere. Not only on the bank of the river, but also on streets, trees, lampposts, and so on. The more you see like that you know you are making tangible advancement in Krishna Consciousness. Actually, there is nothing but Krishna all around us. This is ex- plained in the Gita. He is the taste of wa- ter, light of the moon, the fragrance of the flower, light of the sun, sound of the sky, the power of the strong and so on. so one who is actually making progress in Krishna Consciousness, he can see Krishna everywhere. At every stage of life, who can avoid the sunlight, the moonlight, the fragrance of the flower, the taste of the water, the sound of the sky, and so on; but one has to learn it, that there is Krishna in all these varieties of ex- istence. Without Krishna there is nothing. It is simply by the influence of Maya that we forget the relationship of Krishna with everything that be. Simply always chant Hare Krishna and with faith in Krishna and the Spiritual Master. I am very glad Krishna is helping you and He will help you more and more in the future. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-15 San Francisco 21st December, 1967 My Dear Rayarama, please accept my blessings. My first concern is that you are not eating well. It is a case of anxiety. Please don’t eat dal and spices. Simply boiled vegetables, rice and a few chapatis. Take butter separately and eat only as much as you may require for taste. Drink milk twice, morning and evening. Don’t eat at night. Eat some fruits in the evening. Use some digestive pill after each principle meal. I think soda-mint tablets will help. Be careful about your health first. This information is not only for you but all my noble sons. I am an old man. I may live or die it does not matter. But you must live for long time to push on this Krishna Consciousness movement. I hope you have received all my letters and the purports of Gita which I sent you from Calcutta. I am anxious to know about Damodar. What happens to him. If he is in need of sex, who forbids him. A man in sexlife is not negleted by us. The only thing we want, that sex life can be allowed only in DECEMBER, 1967 265 married couples. So get him convinced about it. What is the reason that he wants to leave us? It is understood that the fin- ished MSS. of the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya is with him; whether he has de- livered this final MSS. to Brahmananda for printing purpose? Please inform me about this.Too much editing is not re- quired. If Satswarup has already edited it, there is no need of further editing. Please send me the address of Dwarkadish. He had some correspondence with DP Dai Nippon Printing Co. of Japan. If possible we may get the T.L. C. printed from Japan or in Holland as you informed me, at chapter rate. Please talk with your God- brothers and let me know about it. So far my health is concerned, you know that it is a broken old house. You cannot expect as good as you are doing. So my future hope is you all good spiritual sons. Still I am taking as much care as possible. My only desire is that you all good boys may take up the matter very se- riously. Zam very sorry for Hayagrivaand Kirtananda who have left me when I need them very much. Krishna may give them good sense and let them come back to work with me. Hope you are well. Offer my blessings to Brahmananda and others. Please send me the third Canto English translation of the Srimad Bhagwatam done by the Gita Press. You got these copies from the Gita Press for reference. I want the third canto, please send as soon as possible. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-16 23rd December, 1967 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. Your letter dated Dec.-15 in hand. I am very glad'to know that you are helping your God- brothers in Boston, just like the Queen of King Jadu. King Jadu was a very powerful King and Jadurany was his contant com- panion. Krishna selected to appear Him- self on this earth planet, selecting the Jadu Dynasty as His Predecessors. So your help to your God-brothers just apt your nice name. Regarding your coming to San Fran- cisco, I have no objection, but because you are only three in Boston, your ab- sence may be felt by your other God- brothers. So if Satsvarupa agrees to leave you, you can come to S.F., otherwise, wait for the proper time. Now by Krishna’s Grace, we have got many fine art students like Govinda dasi, Indira dasi, and Malati and many others. So as director of the art dept., you should orga- nize them in one place and overflood with pictures. We require these pictures in large quantities both for selling and for decoration. So I think you should immedi- ately organize these potential artists in one place, either in S.F. or N.Y., or wher- ever you like, and give daily at least one dozen pictures. You should think of this line and how we can help you and how your God- brothers can help you. I have no objection to your sending to N.Y. for the print of Pancha Tattwa. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-17 San Francisco 23rd December, 1967 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my.blessings. Your letter dated 17, Dec. duly in hand. I am prepar- ing the text in dictaphone for sending you as usual, but you must have a dictaphone there, otherwise how you can hear the 266 Letters from Srila Prabhupada tapes? So arrange for this, either one to hire or on purchase system. And as soon as you let me know that you have one dic- taphone there, I will send you the tapes regularly. I have already written to Rayrama about Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings, that there is no need of editing the final manu- scripts. Better let us prepare for its print- ing. He had some correspondence with Dainippon Printing Company of Tokyo, and our Dwarkadish did all the negotia- tion. Please contact him immediately, and ask him to send me the correspondence he had with the printing company. I also do not like too much editorial work. This too much editorial work on Geetopanishad has created some misun- derstanding between the editorial staffs. Anyway, in future, one man should edit it and be sufficient for our printing. And I do not want that Lord Chaitanya’s Teach- ings should be edited again and typed again and waste time in that way. I have also informed Rayrama of this, and you can also inform him like this. The book should be printed immediately without any waste of time. That is my desire. Regarding Boston and Harvard Uni- versity Kirtans, I quite appreciate your noble activities. Our Kirtan movement is genuine, and if the unsophisticated stu- dents take it seriously, it will be a great achievement. I know that all these Bogus Yogis they are cheating the public, but at the same time your countrymen also want to be cheated. They are cheating the pub- lic by words of extravagancy, saying that anyone can meditate even he is a drunk- ard. These cheap words attract people and these rascals become popular. So we don’t want cheap popularity; I was very glad to learn from Gargamuni that Brahmananda refused to place my identification with so many cheater Swamis. We shallalways re- main distinct from all these cheaters. If we can convert one person in Krishna consciousness, that is our success of life. We don’t want too many rascal followers. Let us perform this movement sincerely with faith in Krishna and people will grad- ually appreciate our service. I thank you very much once more for your ardent desire to cooperate with my missionary work. Krishna will make you happy. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-18 29th December, 1967 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 12/27/67, along with the MacMillan Co. agreement form. Prior to this letter I have received your other two letters, but I was expecting this letter, so I did not reply your prior let- ters earlier. I am sending herewith the agreement duly signed by me. Regarding Mr. Alan Watts introduction, I may in- form you if the books will sell nicely by Mr. Watts introduction I do not mind his nonsense. The other gentleman Professor Edward Dimmock of the University of Chicago who is a student of Vaishnavism is willing to give some introduction. But you say he is not well known. For me, ei- ther Professor Dimmock or Mr. Watts both are nonsense. Now for selling pur- pose, if you think Mr. Watts is nice, I have no objection. I give you full power of at- torney in this connection. Who ever you like like you can accept. Regarding other books printed by, published by, or distributed by some Eu- ropean firm is very welcome. You have got also the full power of attorney in this connection. Krishna has sent you to me to help me in my mission. As you are my sin- cere spiritual son, Krishna will dictate to DECEMBER, 1967 267 you what to do in this connection. So I have full faith in you and you can deter- mine as Krishna speaks within your heart. Regarding Hayagriva and Kirtananda, if they come again we should accommo- date them and should not continue the misunderstanding that has been engi- neered. I think Hayagriva is anxious in having his name printed in the publication of Geetopanishad. I do not have any ob- jections that his name may be mentioned as one of the editors helping in the editing of Geetopanisad, just to encourage him and keep him in our camp, in case that he may come back and accept our philoso- phy and resume his editing talent. He has committed a blunder, but just so that he may be encouraged to come back you may mention his name also along with Rayra- ma’s. He is not so convinced of his imper- sonalist philosophy. It is only due to Kirtananda’s influence that he has left us. Yes, please send the $500.00 to the United Shipping Co. as I have instructed. When you go to India you may see the manager of Scindia and talk with her with the letter of introduction that I shall give you. It is my decision that you do not leave until the MacMillan agreement is com- pleted. Your idea of manufacturing the in- cense in one center is my idea also. Here in S.F. Gargamuni has told me that he is arranging for it to be produced. From here all the temples will be supplied, not that every temple should make it. I have received the Dwarkin and Sons letter. I have not received any letter from Achyutananda as of yet so please wait till I have received a letter before you write him. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please deliver MSS. to M/s M&Co. as much as already complete. My Dear Balai dasi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Dec. 26, 1967. In reply I am very happy to hear you are doing so nicely in executing this Krishna Consciousness. Please go on chanting Hare Krishna, and typing, cook- ing, cleaning or whatever the engagement for Krishna; that way you will always be happy. To answer you question regarding your names: Balai is the name of Baladev, Krishna’s elder brother. His wife is called Balai dasi, or His girlfiriend is called Ba- lai dasi. Baladev is not different from Krishna. He is first expansion from Krishna. All the incarnations and expan- sions begin from Baladev. Leelasuka is name of Bilvamangal Thakur; this Bilva- mangal Thakur was a great devotee of Krishna and he wrote a famous book Krishna Karnamrita, recognized by Lord Chaitanya. Kanchanbala was one of the Gopies in the association of Krishna. In- dira was also one of the Gopies in the as- sociation of Krishna. Ekayani was the wife of a great sage who was in the Satya Yuga when all persons were paramhansas or liberated persons. Ekayani’s husband was a liberated person. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-19 29th December, 1967 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Dec. 23(?), 1967, and I am glad to hear you are doing so nicely in Krishna Consciousness. Regarding your questions: This inci- dence is in the Srimad Bhagwatam. Bhis- madev, when he was lying on his arrow bed before passing away, Lord Krishna, 268 Letters from Srila Prabhupada accompanied with the Pandavas, came to see him. Ordinarily, Bhismadev was wor- shipper of Lord Vishnu, but he knew also that Krishna is the same Lord Vishnu. When Krishna came to see Bhismadev on his death bed, Bhismadev remembered Krishna in His fighting feature at the battlefield of Kurukshetra. Bhismadev wanted to see Krishna angry, he knew that Krishna was very kind upon him, but to make a front he displayed a chivalrous mood, pretending to kill Arjuna, although he knew it very well that no power in the world could kill Arjuna while he was shielded by Krishna Himself as his chari- oteer. Yet he tried to agitate the mind of Krishna, but Arjuna he almost killed. Ac- tually, Krishna thought it that Bhismadev was to see Him in His angry mood and supposed to be broken in His promise, to fulfill the desire of Bhismadev. He got down from the chariot and took a wheel of the chariot, going forward as if to kill Bhismadev. Bhismadev, as soon as found Krishna in that angry mood, he gave up his fighting weapons and prepared him- self for being killed by Krishna. This atti- tude of Krishna pleased Bhismadev very much, and at the time of his death he re- called back the angry feature of Krishna. He was a military man so he was pleased to see Krishna in military spirit, as much as the Gopies wanted to see Krishna as the most beautiful lover. There is no differ- ence between the attitude of the Gopies and Bhismadeva in the matter of exchang- ing transcendental mellows between God and His devotee. Krishna can be loved in any feature and because he is absolute there is no difference to love Krishna as. a military man or as a simple Gopi. During the day the two sides would battle, and at night they would visit one another’s camps, just like friends, talking and eating together. Bhisma was accused of not trying hard enough to kill the Pan- davas, due to affection for them. So, he said, tomorrow] will kill all five brothers, and these five special arrows I shall kill them with. For safekeeping Bhismadeva gave the five arrows to Duryodhone, who had accused Bhisma of too much affection for the Pandavas. Formerly, Duryodhone had made promise to Arjuna that he could someday ask for some favor, so Krishna, knowing all these things, sent Arjuna to Duryodhone for asking favor of giving the arrows to Arjuna. So as the promise was made, Duryodhone gave Arjuna the ar- rows, that night. Next day, Bhisma knew it was Krishna who arranged all this, and so he told Duryodhone, today it will be ei- ther Arjuna or I, but one of us will die. And so he fought very hard to kill Arjuna, but with Krishna as Protector, no one in world could kill Arjuna. Krishna’s body was pierced, here and there, all over as you like. As military man, Bhisma had no right to shoot the chariot driver, but he knew Krishna’s body is not material, and will not be harmed, so he took pleasure in piercing the body of the Lord. Bhismadev became so pierced with arrows that he laid down and with the arrows all standing on end, all over stuck through his body. Yes, Lord Brahma and Lord Shiva came and were there in the sky with many demi- gods, and throwing flowers. You can con- sult Srimad Bhagwatam second part. The picture and contents of the article appearing in Harvard Crimson is very nice. Krishna has already recognized you as one of the prophets of this missionary work, and I approve this statement. Please go on in Krishna Consciousness and I’m sure even in my absence you will be doing nicely acting as prophet. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have received your Namakali wrapper. Thank you very much. ACB DECEMBER, 1967 269 67-12-20 San Francisco 30th December, 1967 My Dear Achutyananda and Ramanuja, Please accept my greetings. I have be- come too much anxious about you. Please accept my blessings and let me know the news of Delhi affairs. I have sent you a let- ter to Vrndavana address but have re- ceived no reply. Here I am well and delivering lectures with evenings meet- ings. Yesterday I met Mr. B. K. Nelson and he’s arranging for my permanent visa. Yesterday I have also signed the agree- ment with MFS MacMillan Company for publication of Gita. Please reply to this letter immediately and let meknow all the reports. Hope you are doing well by the grace of Lord Krishna. Awaiting your early reply. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-21 San Francisco 30th December, 1967 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived back the tape which you have type- written. The inquiry about porce should be force. Today I am sending you two Krishna Conscious lectures, tape re- corded into the dictaphone. Please write them properly and send me one copy. The best thing will be as soon as you typewrite the two, send me one copy after editing as you were doing formerly. I’ll keep one copy with me, you keep one copy with you, and if further editing is required for which another copy should be kept with you. You will be glad to know that yesterday I have signed the agreement with McMil- lan for publishing Geetopanishad, and also, Mr. B. K. Nehru was met by me day before yesterday and he has promised to help me in getting the permanent visa. So far my health is concerned, Gour- sundar is keeping me quite fit by massag- ing and Govinda dasi is supplying me opma. Perhaps youhave never tasted what is opma. But if Jadurany can prepare it I shall send the formula. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 67-12-22 San Francisco 31st December, 1967 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. My joy has no bounds when I received your cal- endar so nicely imagined. Now I think Krishna has selected the right person for our propaganda department—Snman Ray- rama Brahmachary! A sincere worker is always recognized by Krishna. I do not know how shall I thank you, but I am con- fident of my future hopes in the sincere students like you, Brahmananda and oth- ers; & now if I die I will die blissful, the work will go on. Here, all the students, especially Goursundar and Govinda dasi are taking my personal care. Upendra and Uddhava they are personally cooking for me, and Mukunda is personally looking after my permanent visa. So I see all round hopes; there is nothing to be disappointed in my service to Krishna. Let us go on with our work for Krishna for His satisfaction and for the benefit of the whole world. Thank you once more for your great service. I have already sent the contract signed by me and given Brahmananda full power of attorney to do best as he likes. I think if they accept our philosophy in total, we can make some compromise with Hayagriva and Kirtanananda. But they cannot interpret our philosophy in their own way. 270 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Thanking you once more for your great service. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure-1 67-12-23 San Francisco December, 1967 My Dear Nadakishore, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to accept you. I am in due receipt of your letter of Dec. 24, and I am very glad to accept you as one of the servitors of Krishna. You are right when you say that our past life is a dream only. Just like at night we see so many dreams and in day- time we forget everything. Similarly we forget everything of our past life and as such so long we do not be reposed to our spiritual factual life, all these changes of lives one after another are considered to be dreams. Less intelligent persons are very much interested in dreaming life, but one who is intelligent dnough he searches after eternal life. The modern civilization does not understand what is eternal life. They are busy with the spot life of 50 or 100 years. Fools cannot think that one is not for 50 or 100 years, but one is for eter- nity. Krishna Consciousness is the life of eternity and I am glad you are interested in it. So I am sending you beads chanted by me and your name is Nandakishore Brahmachary. Please follow the rules and regulations and ask Brahmananda about these rules and regulations. He will help you. Krishna Consciousness is the process of eternal life. The process is simple and the results are sublime. You follow it and you will be happy in this life as will asin the next. I do not know whether you sent me these beads from N.Y. with stamped en- velope; if you sent it, that is all right. Oth- erwise someone has sent them and I am missing his name. Anyway you can chant on these beads and inquire if anyone is missing his beads. Then I can send an- other (if these are not sent by you). Hope your are well, Your ever well-wisher, 67-12-24 December, 1967 My Dear Leelasuka Dasi, Please accept my blessings. Your letter of Nov. 26, 1967, received along with your beads. I have sanctified ‘your beads last evening when I initiated two other boys Chidananda and Krishna das. I am very glad to know that you are realizing Krishna Consciousness. The more you chant, the more you will realize. I think Krishna has brought me again in your country for the purpose of training you perfectly. One must be educated. The education may be taken either in schools or privately but one must be educated. We want many preachers to broadcast this message Krishna Consciousness. Without eduction we cannot preach because a preacher has to meet many kinds of oppo- site elements. One has to be engaged in one’s specific occupation and at the same time to advance in Krishna Conscious- ness. Herewith please find your beads. Get some Small Beads to be fixed up in your neck. Have regularly the Tilak marks. Brahmananda will assist you in all details. Be happy in Krishna Conscious- ness. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami DECEMBER, 1967 271 67-12-25 San Francisco December, 1967 My Dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. I am so happy to read your letter dated Dec. 28, 1967. And I am very concerned that due to your sincerity and service mood you have improved in Krishna Consciousness excellently. Whatever allocation of duty there may be, if we try to execute such specific duty sincerely, that alone can make us much more advanced in Krishna Consciousness. In the Bhagavad Gita, it is stated that for the fixed up devotee there is one duty. This duty is understood through the transparent medium via media of the Spiritual Master. It is better service to Krishna and Spiritual Master in a feeling of separation; sometimes there is risk in the matter of direct service. For example, Kirtanananda was giving me direct ser- vice by massaging, cooking for me, and so many other things; but later on by dic- tation of Maya, he became puffed up, so much so that he thought his Spiritual Mas- ter a common man, and was existing only on account of his service. This mentality at once pushed him down. Of course, those who are sincere devotee, they take direct service as an opportunity, but the il- lusory energy is so strong that it acts on this doctrine of familiarity breeds con- tempt. Kirtanananda was thinking I was existing on his service, instead of realiz- ing I was giving him opportunity to do me some service. My advice to you is to continue your good attitude that you are keeping now and this alone will help you in advancing your cause of Krishna Consciousness. I am pleased that you are very diligently as- sisting Rayrama. Rayrama is a sincere worker and by assisting him you will be benefited. You are doing your best and I shall advise you to continue this attitude. Regarding smearing on the Body of Lord Jagganath: You should always know that the Body of Lord Jagganath is spiri- tual. We are given the chance of serving the Spiritual Body and according to Re- vealed Scriptures, we should serve the Transcendental Body of the Diety just as we try to serve our worshippable person- alities. To continue a sense of devotion, it is better to wash the Body of Lord Jag- ganath with hot water so that we may have the feeling that Lord Jaggganath is more comfortable. We should offer foodstuffs to the Diety and allow enough time to eat them. These are all transcendental senti- ments. At Vrindaban, the Dieties are of- fered foodstuffs and time is allowed as in the case of others. Yes, before offering anything to the Diety you must be satisfied that it is a first class offering and there is no objection if you taste it by smelling. But you should not smell for other pur- poses. The whole idea is that devotional service should always be immune from sense gratification. Iam very glad that you are prepared to go to Vrindaban. Many students, boys and girls, are also prepared here to go to Vrindaban. I am just in negotiation for a good place for you and as soon as it is fixed up, we shall go to Vrindaban, at least one dozen students. Achutananda and Ramanuja had very good reception and they are planning to preach Krishna Consciousness and to open a branch there, and I have encouraged them in that idea. My dream is that at least one dozen students shall remain in Vrindaban and trained up nicely, and sent for preaching work all over the world. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 1968 JANUARY 68-1-1 Los Angeles 11th January, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Perhaps you know that I have come to L.A. on Sat- urday last and before coming here, I re- ceived one letter from you regarding publishing of Gita. It is understood that the book is going to be published by the month of August and it will be available for us in the month of Septemper 1968. But I have heard nothing from you about the contract which I have sent you back duly signed. I am anxious to know whether Messrs. McMillan Company has also signed contract and have paid the promised money $1000. I shall be glad if you will enlighten me on this point. Recently I received one unsolicited let- ter from Sri Hanuman Prasad Poddar, a copy of which is sent herewith for your reference. Just yesterday Subal came here and he was saying that your N.Y. center is going on very nicely and attractively. I am so glad to have this report and I thank you very much for conducting the center so nicely. I have also received one letter from Rayram, the reply of which is enclosed here. Please hand it over to him. Awaiting your reply. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami GITA PRESS GORAKHPUR, U.P. (INDIA.) Dated 20-12-67. Respected Sir, Really you are doing wonderful work. By successfully flying aloft the banner of Sri Radha-Krishna’s sweet Name in such a far off and strange land. You have mar- vellously proved the glory and irrepress- ible charm of the Divine Pair and Their sweet Name. I am sending some books and pictures which you would find useful for your no- ble mission. With salutations to Sri Hari, I am yours sincerely, Hanuman Prasad Poddar 68-1-2 Los Angeles 11th January, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of January 3, 1968, on ISKCON PRESS stationary. It is so nice and attractive and all the credit goes to you and your assistants. Please convey my sincere thanks to your two as- sistants, JaiGovinda and Purushottam, for their sincere service in the cause of Krishna Consciousness. Please take it for granted that I have sanctioned for all your schemes. Because you are sincere worker Krishna is dictating from within yourself as He has promised in the Bhagavad Gita, and things are coming so nicely. May Krishna grace you more and more and in your advance service of Krishna Con- sciousness. You have very nicely stated that Iam your life. This means you are my body and so neither life nor body can be 276 Letters from Srila Prabhupada separated because on the spiritual plat- form there is no such distinction. On ma- terial platform sometimes life is separated from body, but in the Absolute platform there is no such distinction. Dr. Radha- Krishnan foolishly makes such distinction on the Body of Krishna, and therefore when Krishna says that one should be- come His devotee, he commends that it is not to the Person Krishna, but to the Light within Krishna. He does not know that in the spiritual platform, there is no such dis- tinction of life and body. I am very sorry that Satyabrata has left us on some petty sentimental thing. Please ask him to come back and excuse me if I have struck his sentiment. I think he should be permanently on the editorial board and you can give him any serious engagement as you please. He may be re- placed in the place of Hayagriva if he is not going to join us. Recently I received one letter from Hayagriva and I replied it promptly. The thing is, everyone of us should think as servant of Krishna. In the service of Krishna there may be some- times transcendental competition but there cannot be any disruption. Please call Satyabrata and give him serious engage- ment as he likes to take. He is a good soul and he must be satisfied. I wanted Teachings of Lord Chaitanya to be immediately printed, therefore I said that it may not be delayed by further edito- rial work, but if you think that it needs fur- ther editorial work, please do it through Satyabrata, and forthwith prepare the manuscript ready for printing. You will be glad that two parts of Sri- mad Bhagwatam is already in the press in India, and I have sent money for purchas- ing the paper. In my opinion the Bhagwa- tam work should be immediately re- sumed. I am preparing tape recordings and sending them to Satsvarupa for typ- ing, and after his typing, the copies may be edited, either by you or by Satyabrata, or combinedly, as you think best. And im- mediately final copy should be submitted for printing in India, one after another. In future, if McMillan or any other com- pany, takes our publication work, it is well and good, but at least one edition should be printed without further delay. Kindly think over this matter and chalk out pro- gram for progressive work. I say once more that both you and Satyabrata may take up this editorial work. I shall be glad to hear also about your health and how you are feeling now about your appetite and general health. And I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-3 11th January, 1968 My dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your statement regarding Jivanuga, and it is clear that he is crazy. I have already advised Jayananda in this connection that we cannot make the soci- ety an asylum for crazy people. It is not our business. Jayananda is a very sincere and intelli- gent boy and I think his decision should be accepted as final in the matter. Not only in this case, but in every other complicated case. the elected authorities in the man- agement of the temple should be the final authority in these matters. Otherwise, the society cannot be managed. Our main principle should be to advance the cause of K.C. I am glad to learn that your co- operation for this society is appreciated by the authorities, We should learn to forget and forgive minor incidence because whenever there are two men in a place, there is always some misunderstanding. Such misunderstanding happens even be- tween husband and wife—what to speak JANUARY, 1968 277 of others. But we have to adjust things on the basis of Krishna Consciousness. We should always remember that K.C. is a challenge to the modern misguided hu- man society, and we have to meet many unfavorable incidences. But of we are sincere to Krishna and the Spiritual Master, combinedly, then ev- erything will be favorable settled. We should always remember that K. C. can only remain on two parallel lines of Krishna and Spiritual Master. Chant Hare Krishna sincerely and all good intelli- gence consultation shall come from within. Krishna says that those who are engaged in My service, I give intelligence for his progressive march. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-4 Los Angeles 11th January, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your very encouraging let- ter dated January 3, 1968. Because you are a sincere servant of Krishna, Krishna is giving you gradually facilities to ad- vance in your engagement of Krishna Consciousness. I am so glad to learn that now you have nice apartment of 4 rooms, and also a nice job for meeting your all necessary expenses. Take them as bene- diction from Krishna and utilize them for Krishna Consciousness business. If you can provide yourself by independent handwork then you can give up your present job, otherwise you continue with your job, even it is nonsense. The thing is, we must have sufficient time for executing Krishna Consciousness business, so you have to select which one will be suitable for you. If you think that by carving Jag- ganaths or painting you will have suffi- cient income, it is very nice. Otherwise do not give up your present job for some future hope. Rayrama’s suggestion to open an ashram is very nice. If it is possi- ble to keep sufficient number of cows in the ashram, there can be very nice milk business and that may make sufficient in- come for maintaining one institution for educating children in Krishna Conscious- ness. Actually the modern educational in- stitutions are different grades of slaughter houses. If you can open an ideal institu- tion for the future children of our associ- ates, it will be a great service. Actually as I have already discussed in my Srimad Bhagwatam, for economic problem one requires a little land and a few cows. Then the whole economic problem is solved. We should utilize our time for elevating ourselves in Krishna Consciousness than for so-called economic development. If we are satisfied with plain living, with minimum time and the balance time is en- gaged for elevating our Krishna Con- scious program, then every man can be transferred to Goloka Vrindaban, just in this very life. The modern civilization has encumbered the mode of living and peo- ple are engaged all the time in the matter of eating, sleeping, defending, and mat- ing. Both yourself, and your wife Himava- tie are good combination. If you can develop such an institution for future chil- dren of the society, or outside the society, it will be great service for the humanity. I am sure Krishna will give you more and more intelligence in this matter, if you se- riously think on the subject by gradual evolution. Offer my blessings to your good wife and I pray to Krishna for your all round prosperity. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 278 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda 68-1-5 Los Angeles 12th January, 1968 My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge reciept of your letter dated December 31, 1968, and I thank you for your good wishes for the new year, Please accept the same from my side. So far as we are concerned, our new year is every day because Krishna belongs to the nitya leela. Nitya leela means that all of His Pastimes are going on in either of the so many universes. It is just like the rising of the sun. In your country the sun is supposed to rise at 6:30 at the present moment, but at any time you can inquire in some part of the world and there is the sa,e 6:30 sunrise. While you are in this meridan, in another country it may be 6:30 AM, and the sun is rising. So you have now taken charge of the sunrise of New Vrindaban. Our program is there for constructing seven temples. One Rupanuga Vidyapitha—that is a school for educating brahmins and vaishnavas. We have enough of techno- logical and other types of educational in- stitutions, but perhaps there is none where actual brahmins and vaishnavas are pro- duced. So we will have to establish an educational institution for that purpose. A first examination will be held some- times next January on Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and those passing will have the de- gree of Bhaktishastri. Next year we will hold an examination on Srimad Bhagwa- tam, and the person who passes will have the title Bhaktibaibhava. And the next year we shall hold an examination on Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, Nectar of Devotion and Vedanta Sutra, and those who will successfully pass will be awarded with the title of Bhaktivedanta. By 1975, all of those who have passed all of the above examinations will be specifi- cally empowered to initiate and increase the number of the Krishna Consciousness population. Another important scheme is to start a nice press next spring. So these duties are there in New Vrindaban, and we shall have to live there self independently, sim- ply by raising cows, grains, fruits, and flowers. I have already exlained these things to Hayagriva, and he is now mar- ried and a responsible grihasta. You ate of course sannyas. Your duties will be more to preach and supervise th activities there. But do everything jointly. Many grihastas and brahmacharies will join you for full cooperation. Some of them have already prepared to go there immediately, and perhaps you have received some letters about this. So everything appears very bright in the future. We have deal with things very sagaciously and sucess will surely be there. The immediate necessity is to construct som simple cottages for liv- ing purposed, and then everything will gradually come out, one after another. I hope that you are already in touch with Hayagriva, and he must have spoken to you about these ideas. May Krishna bless you with long life in executing the idea of our New Vrindaban scheme. Thanking you once more. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-6 Los Angeles 13th January, 1968 My Dear Andrea Temple, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of January 9, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I have heard from Govinda dasi that you are such a nice girl, and I appreciate your sincere interest in this Krishna Conscious philosophy and this Samkirtan movement of Lord Chaita- nya. I have also heard how you typed Sri Sri Brahma Samhita and I am very JANUARY, 1968 279 pleased with your sincere service. Recently I have come to Los Angeles where the warmer climate is better for my health than in San Francisco. I am told the Bahama Islands are very warm year round, and I am very interested to come there. If you can find an appropriate store- front, and decorate it nicely for a Temple, with altar, pictures, candles, incense, etc., and begin holding Kirtan there, then I will come there in February to the Ba- hama Islands, and give lectures there in the Temple. You will be doing very good service to Krishna, and it is not very diffi- cult to do. People will come, you will see. However, if it is not possible to do this, then I will be very happy to meet you when I go to New York in April, .and to Montreal afterward. Please go on chanting (16 rounds daily if you can), reading Srimad Bhagwatam and our other literatures, and you will al- ways be happy, both in this life and the next. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-7 13th January, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your nice letters of Jan. 11, and 13. I thank you for your kind appreciation for the tapes received there. Also, thank you that you are trying to organize all the artists, and doing so nicely. No, there is no color picture of Lord Chaitanya’s birth- place and temple at Mayapur. You can Color with your choice. Yes, try at your convenience to paint pictures from the Bhagavat statement, in terms of the pur- Port and explanation. So long we have got materialistic view the serpent is fierce. When Prahlad Ma- haraj saw Lord Nrsinghadev, he was not at all afraid of the fierceful feature of the Lord. The big jaws and nails of the Lord Nrisinghadev and fiery tongue of the Lord, and gigantic Lion’s Head did not create any fierceful havoc before Prahlad Maharaj. He said, “My Dear Lord, I am not afraid of this your fierceful feature, but I am afraid of the repeated cycle of birth and death in the material existence.” That instruction is very valuable. In our material existence, we are always in dan- gerous and fierceful condition, but by the spellof Maya, we do not take it very seri- ously. The Serpent-like feature of the Lord is another expansion of the Lord, to provide His Place on the Ocean. He is not at all fierceful to the devotees. Yes, the ecstasy of separation of Spiri- tual Master is even greater ecstasy than meeting with Him. Please continue your excellent service and I will always be so pleased with your sincereservice, as I am so much happy with you. Hope you are well, and I hope your injured thumb is now fully recov- ered. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your nice letter of Jan. 13, 1968. Your eagerness to render service to the Lord is very much appreciated by me. Please get the copy of Sri Sri Brahma Samhita, and begin the transliteration. I think you know the diacritical marks for transliteration; please use them. Please send me full photostat copy of the original Brahma Samhita. I shall begin writing my own commentation after my Guru Ma- haraj. Goursundar will be helping me pre- pare this Brahma Samhita. After you 280 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda finish transliteration of Brahma Samhita then we shall see for Srimad Bhagwatam. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-8 Los Angeles 14th January, 1968 My Dear Kanchanbala dasi, Please accept my blessings. I have duly received your letter (undated), and noted the contents very gladly. My sincere blessings are for you for your nice prose- cution of Krishna Consciousness. What- ever you are doing at the present moment is approved by me and I think on account of your becoming a sincere soul, Krishna is dictating from within and you are doing things so nicely. There are two gurus— one internal and the other external. The internal Guru is Krishna Himself seated in everyone’s heart, and the external Guru is the Spiritual Master. So a sincere devo- tee is helped both externally and inter- nally. To the sincere devotee the internal Guru Krishna dictates, but the thing has to be conformed by the external Guru then it is all right. I am very glad that you don’t go out, and keep indoors engaging your- self in Krishna Consciousness activities. Regarding love affairs in the material world: they are only shadows or reflec- tions of the real love with Krishna. If you love Krishna in any capacity, you shall never be frustrated because everything in Krishna is perfect, eternal, blissful, and full of knowledge. So continue your present activities and chant your beads; whenever there is some difficulty consult Brahmananda or write to me; and Krishna will help you more and more on the path of perfection. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-9 Los Angeles 14th January, 1968 My Dear Woomapati Please accept my blessings. Since you talked with me on the telephone, I re- ceived also your letter of Dec. 30, 1967, but I could not reply the same on account of my shifting to Los Angeles. I have come here last Saturday the 6th of Janu- ary. I am feeling well here because the cli- mate is warmer. I thank you very much for your acceptance of my guidance. My guidance means Krishna’s guidance. I am very poor and therefore I can pray only to Krishna for your guidance. Krishna is Absolute and we are all under His guid- ance but the bonafide Spiritual Master is accepted as guidance because he is tran- sparant via media between Krishna and the devotee. The devotee has no access to Krishna without the via media. From your letter I can guess a first hand knowledge of Kirtanananda and Hayagriva. In the meantime I have re- ceived two letters from Hayagriva; one is already replied and the other is pending. Our line of action is simultaneous service to the Spiritual Master and Krishna. With- out being favoured by Krishna, nobody can have the association of a bonafide Spiritual Master and nobody can have the mercy of Krishna without being favoured by the Spiritual Master. It is so intimately connected. Kirtanananda’s refusal to accept the Parampara system and authority of the scriptures is the cause of his misfortune. His version that the sun and the sunshine are one and the same is right, but when the sunshine is in the room it is not correct to say that the sun is in the room. His knowl- edge therefore is imperfect and therefore he cannot be a preacher. He is therefore contemplating for starting nightclub of the psychedelic type. His association is not desireable for the present neither I can JANUARY, 1968 281 think of his future correction. Hayagriva has fallen a victim and I am sorry for this. Anyway, my dear boy, please remem- ber that Maya is very strong. Any one of us can be arrested by her at any moment if - we are not strongly attached to Krishna Consciousness. So my request to you and all others is to follow the principles of Krishna Consciousness adherently and there is no danger however the Maya may be strong. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-10 Los Angeles 15th January, 1968 My Dear Yamuna devi and Harsharani devi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter, undated, and I can understand that in some points you disagree with Gargamuni but you have not clearly mentioned what is this point of disagreement. So far I know, Garga- muni’s activities are approved by the president Jayananda, and so far I know Gargamuni, he has a business tactfulness, but his aim is to help the society finan- cially. Whatever he does is not for his per- sonal interest but for the interest of the society. If you have any specific griev- ance, please let me know, but don’t be dis- turbed by any sort of disagreement with your God-brothers and sisters. Each and every living entity is an individual soul and as such disagreement is quite possible in our dealings with one another but we have to consider the central point of inter- est. You are both very intelligent sober girls and I have got good estimation of you; do not take at any time an attitude of non-cooperation because you may have not agreed with another’s point of view. I have heard about the incidents created by anew devotee, Jivanuga. He appears to be a crazy fellow. He should not have been initiated, but I have given him a chance to improve. Next time I am not going to initi- ate anybody who has not attended our classes at least for 3 months, and is not recommended by the leading members of the society. Less intelligent persons can- not take to Krishna Consciousness. Please let me know what is your specific griev- ance, but I request you not to become dis- turbed. The plan of your husband and yourself, Yamuna, of going to India is ap- proved by me, I am simply waiting for the place where you shall stay. I have already informed this matter to Guru das and he is preparing for this. We shall require at least one dozen students to go to India and stay there at least for 6 months, and be completely trained up on our line of ac- tivities. The place which I am arranging by negotiation with authorities will be suf- ficient of accomodating at least 50 stu- dents and if Krishna gives us that place it will be a great sucess. Physically and mentally we may be disturbed sometimes, but we have to stand erect on the spiritual platform. I may in- form you in the connection that I am at the present moment physically unfit; I am having always a buzzing sound in my brain. I cannot sleep soundly at night, but still I am working because I try to be in my position of spiritual platform. I hope you shall try to understand me right, and do the needful. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Guru das, Please accept my blessings. Achy- utananda and Ramanuja Brahmacharies are now at the following address. c/o N. Banerjea, 114 Elliot Road, Kampur 4, In- dia. They are contemplating to open a preaching center at Kampur, and you can 282 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda open correspondence with them before starting for India. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Upendra, Please accept blessings. I have re- ceived your two letters and they are very nice. By Krishna’s Grace, you are doing well and continue the same faithfully. Krishna will give you intelligence for proper guidance. Offer my blessings to Uddhava & Krishnadas. Yours ever well wisher ACB 68-1-11 Los Angeles 15th January, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated January 10, 1968; it is very nice. I do not find any basical difference of philosophy. From the very beginning I have always preached that basically we have no difference be- tween the Christians, the Mohammedans, the Hindus, or the Buddhists, the four principal religionists in the world. But there is a class, Impersonalists, whom we consider as atheists. The atheists directly say there is no God, and the Impersona- lists say there may be God, but He has no form. It is indirectly saying that there is no God. I am very glad to read in your letter a nice line, “My main concern is seeing Him constantly in my daily life, that is, to constantly remember Him and not to for- get Him.” This is actually Krishna Con- sciousness. We can remember Krishna in every moment. We can remember Krishna while taking a glass of water be- cause the taste of water is Krishna. We can remember Krishna as soon as we see the sunlight in the morning, because the sun- light is a reflection of Krishna’s Bodily Effulgence. Similarly, as soon as we see moonlight in the evening we remember Krishna because moonlight is also reflec- tion of sunlight. Similarly, when we hear any sound we can remember Krishna be- cause sound is Krishna, and the most per- fect sound, transcendental, is Hare Krishna, which we have to chant 24 hours. So there is no scope of forgetting Krishna at any moment of our life pro- vided we practice in that way. The society for Krishna Consciousness is meant for preaching this philosophy throughout the world and I was very happy to receive your cooperation and I am still hopeful that the philosophy of Bhagavad Gita as Science of God can be preached by you and all your God-brothers. Regarding the manuscript: It is very difficult for me to see it again, but I in- quired from Brahmananda whether the manuscript is already delivered to Mac- Millan Company or not. If it is not deliv- ered then I shall try to see it again. Your fear that the entire society will be in dan- ger by Raymond’s editing of the Gita is not very suitable remark. Rayrama may not be as qualified as you are, but his one qualification that he is fully surrendered to Krishna and his Spiritual Master is the first class recommendation for his editing any one of our literatures, because editing of Vedic literatures does not depend on academic education. It is clearly stated in the Upanishads that one who has implicit faith in God as well as in the Spiritual Master, to him only the import of Vedic literature is revealed. I think Rayrama is doing work in that spirit and his recent publication of several booklets and Back to Godhead and a calendar are all first class proof of his sincerity of service Anyway, when I started Back to Godhead, it was my intention that your academic ca- reer and Rayrama’s sincere service would be a good combination; unfortunately, I JANUARY, 1968 283 do not know why, you do not agree with one another. To me, English language is undoubtedly a foreign language, and I thought your combination of editorship will help me a great deal. Anyway, what- ever is done is done. I wish that the misun- derstanding created at the present moment may be mitigated by mutual co- operation and we can start fresh with re- newed energy for service of the Supreme Lord. I think you will agree with me. I am very much obliged to you when you write to say, to have some tasks to be done by you under my guidance. Perhaps you know that we have got to finish the Srimad Bhagwatam in 60 parts, out of which we have published only 3 parts. Two parts are already in the press in In- dia. So still we have to finish up 55 parts to complete the whole text of Srimad Bhagwatam. I am now very much hopeful that it will be done with your good coop- eration. To finish the whole Bhagwatam I require about $40,000, out of which I have got about $12,000 contributed by Brahmananda, Jayananda, and others. Your statement “I took this job out in Wilkes-Barre with intention to make enough money to be able to join you in In- dia, because, when you and Kirtanananda left for India, I thought that you might never return to this country, and I was hoping to join the both of you there.” Yes, actually that was the program, but Kir- tanananda made everything topsy-turvy. After we reached Vrindaban, Kir- tanananda became too much eager to re- turn back. He was daily insisting me for his return back and once I told him that I have no money, how you can return? In re- ply to this, he said that he would go to the American Embassy as American citizen and take money from there and he would return. Then I was obliged to arrange for his return passage money and because he changed his program the society practi- Cally lost $1200 for his going to India and coming back again without any purpose. I thought that part of this money could be recovered if he would return to New York, stopping a few days in London to see the prospect of opening a branch there. He agreed, and I gave him letter of introduc- tion, and required money for immediate expenses, but he had no desire to stop at London and he directly reached you. He was also very eager to take sannyas and I awarded him the sannyas order; and I do not know, he wanted a certificate of his sannyas. We never took any certificate of our Spiritual Master or anyone, but he told me that it was required for facility of preaching, so I gave him the certificate, but unfortunately the whole thing was smashed by different doctrine. Now it is understood from the letter of Woomapati that Kirtanananda does not believe in parampara or in the necessity of scriptural authority. He seems to feel that this is a sort of tyranny. That means, after taking sannyas and understanding the philosophy for more than a year, he has changed the whole view, and I do not understand how you would like this recent doctrine. Anyway, I am very much hopeful that. you are eager to go to India and accept vol- untarily the task under my guidance. Iam searching out a very good place in Vrin- daban for the accommodation of my American students. Kirtanananda has seen the house known as Jaipur House. This house is in the hands of the Rajastan government and negotiation is still going on, and from the correspondence, it ap- pears to be favorable. Now I amawaiting the final decision; as soon as I hear the de- cision I shall again return back to India with some other students. And I shall be so glad if you also come to India as origi- nally envisaged. In Krishna Conscious- ness, if you stick to the principles of Bhagavad Gita, there is no question of dis- harmony; disharmony is created by some rascals of the Impersonalist class who try 284 Letters from Srila Prabhupada - to comment upon the Gita differently. Doctor Radha-Krishnan and company are of the same class. This class of men have no right to touch Bhagavad Gita because they do not come through the parampara system. I shall be glad to hear from you; if you are prepared, to go with me when I next return to India maybe within the next 4-6 months. I shall be glad to hear from you how Kirtanananda is recovering from injuries of recent fall. And I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-12 16th January, 1968 Dear Guru das & Yamuna devi, Be good boy and girl and always chant the HARE KRISHNA mantra and you will be so pleased with the result. Yamuna you are little better than Janaki but don’t get puffed up and be good to those a little less fortunate. Guru das your work is so nice and you are a very im- portant member of our society. You and your wife work so well there shall never be any problems. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-13 Los Angeles 16th January, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter of Jan. 11, 1968, along with the letter from Menno Hertzberger and Co. I think this man will not be suit- able for printing of our books. I shall be glad to hear from you if you have received any reply from Dianippon Printers in Ja- pan. In the letter of Mr. Krimpen it is un- derstood that printing in India, Hong Kong, and such countries is cheaper. The suggestion of Mr. Kallman of Krishna Consciousness Kit is very nice. Please try to fructify this idea as soon as possible. As there is still time to get Bha- gavad Gita ready published by MacMillan Co., Mr. Kallman may not come to S.F. so quickly. I am expecting to return to N.Y. by the end of March or beginning of April. At that time, he may take the re- cording of Krishna Consciousness speech in 3 gramophone records. Regarding Brijbasi affair: You can send the copies of letters and their accep- tance receipt of money may be sent to Sri- man Hitsaran Sharma, as follows: Pandit Hitsaran Sharma; Radha Press, Main Road; Kailash Nagar; Delhi-31, India. You can write to him all details about the dealings of Brijbasi Co., and in my name request him to take it very seriously. They are respectable firm; why they are linger- ing this matter? If there is sinister motive, which we cannot believe they have, then we have to take steps against them. Re- quest Hitsaran Sharma to deal the matter seriously and on his report we shall take necessary steps. Hitsaranji may instruct his younger brother to take up this matter. I am also enclosing one letter herewith for Hitsaranji which you may enclose with letter to him. Regarding Bhattacharya Emporium letter: Ihave handed over the copy to Mu- kunda for necessary action. Bhattacha- rya’s charges are high; as I have already informed you, there is a complete ar- rangement for supplying our goods from India. I have already made them; there is no difficulty. First of all you decide what- ever you want to import, then I shall begin to give you directions. The arrangement is complete. There will be no difficulty to import cloth, incense, musical instru- ments, and so on. The shipping element is there, and the carrying arrangement is there, now you decide what you want to JANUARY, 1968 285 import then I shall give you directions. I am anxious to know whether Mac Millan has signed contract and paid the $1000. I received copies of Queens College in N.Y. article and their letter. It is very en- couraging. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure-1 P.S. Gargamuni is organising a centre in Berkeley & we shall open it very soon. 68-1-14 Los Angeles 16th January, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am very much enlivened of your new Krishna Conscious enterprise and the whole pro- posal is very nice. I think immediately ar- range for this because we want younger generation to participate in this Krishna Consciousness movement. I understand the new place is quite suitable and it will be very convenient for the students com- ing there. I have got all agreement with this proposal but still you consult with Jayananda and Mukunda and settle up things immediately. Jayananda is there and Mukunda has also gone there. I am keeping quite fit under the per- sonal guidance of Goursundar and Gov- inda dasi. I think as soon as your new store is complete, I shall return to S.F. and be- gin our new classes there. It is most grati- fying that you say there is no financial worry, you will manage. I am sure Ud- dhava and Upendra will join you in this enterprise. You are sincere servitor and therefore Krishna is giving you more and more opportunity for service. Please or- ganize this center nicely, I think it is very nice for our purpose. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure-1. 68-1-15 Los Angeles 16th January, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Uddhava and Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of January 11, 1968, and am pleased with your sincere service attitude. We are all conditioned souls so we are affected by Maya, but if we sin- cerely chant and serve, our attachment for Krishna will be revived and we will no more have to come under this Maya. Eter- nally we will be serving the Lotus Feet of the Supreme Lord. I am obliged to you for your sincere service in Krishna Consciousness. Please both of you join with Gargamuni in the new center and with greater enthusiasm. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-16 Los Angeles 17th January, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I have your letter of Jan. 9, 1968 duly in hand, and I thank you very much for it. Yes, I will make plans to appear there on May 1; and before I arrive there on May 1, you can please arrange some lectures in differ- ent Universities and Colleges, so that af- ter reaching there I will find all the engagements there. I thank you very much for your kind words, and you can pray to Krishna that I 286 Letters from Srila Prabhupada may be for some time with you. That is my desire. I have no objection to death, I am old man; still I wish to live because I want to see that the mission and missionaries I have started may be still more stronger be- fore I leave. So pray to Krishna for this. Krishna can be known by His Mercy only as you will find in the text of the Ku- maras. One thing you will mark that the Kumaras considered themselves sinful af- ter cursing the 2 doorkeepers of Vaikun- tha, and this was realized when they are fully conscious of the Supreme Lord. I have sent you one tape today. You will find the explanation there, and en joy it. Yes, if it is possible to send carbon copies of Sri- mad Bhagwatam tapes to other centers; please do so. Also, please send a copy to Goursundar of Bhagwatam tapes, and also lectures if possible, c/o of this ad- dress. Hope youare well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Today I have also received one letter of 16th & a tape. I have also sent another tape. ACB 68-1-17 Los Angeles 18th January, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of Jan. 11, 1968, and have noted the contents carefully. I ac- knowledge receipt of Kirtanananda’s san- nyas certificate. I have no objection to the sweatshirts and posters bearing Madhava Vishnu. And I am glad to hear that Back to Godhead will soon be ready for selling. Bhagavad Gita is nearing comple- tion—I heard this before I started from In- dia. The editing has been too much de- layed. Now I request you to come here for a week with the full manuscript so that I can see it personally, along with you, and finish the editorial work, within a week. Even after signing the contract, if the manuscript is not submitted, it is regretta- ble. If it is not inconvenient for you, somehow or other, it will be better if you come here for one week absolutely for this purpose so that we can finish this job without further delay. If need be, it can be retyped also here. We have got two nice girl typists. I wished that the editorial de- partment should be combinedly worked but it has not been successful. You are overloaded with so many works therefore it is being delayed; I can understand this. Therefore, I wish that you may come here for a week, suspending all other business and finish this Bhagavad Gita in my pres- ence. Hope you are feeling well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please inform Brahmananda & Jay- ananda that I have received their letters & it will be duly replied. ACB 68-1-18 Los Angeles 18th January, 1968 Jai Mazo 600 East 21 Street Brooklyn, New York, 11226. My Dear Jai Mazo, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter dated Jan. 12, 1968, and have noted carefully the contents. And because you are already ac- quainted with Krishna, I have no objec- tion to accepting you as my disciple. Practically, I do not have any disciples; I select so many masters to train them in the service of the Lord. Your natural attrac- tion for Krishna makes it show that in your JANUARY, 1968 287 previous birth you have cultured this sci- ence of Krishna Consciousness. In your Poetry, last line, I have changed the word “beautiful transforming Being” into “beautiful eternal Being.” Krishna does not transform, but He has millions and billions of expansions which are all eter- nally existing simultaneously. Just like the sun at noon, and the sun at morningtime, and the sun at eveningtime; they are sim- ply by names and they are eternal. To the sun there is no morning or evening or noon, still we say morning sun, evening sun, noon sun. There is a nice verse in Brahma Samhita—that Krishna is the Su- preme Personality of Godhead and has multi-expansions like Rama, Nri- singhdev, Vamana, etc. Your letter is very interesting to me and when I shall meet you in N.Y. sometimes in March or April, we shall talk frankly and I shall officially initiate you. In the meantime, please go on attending classes in N.Y. as usual and do it regularly and you will be benefited. I thank you very much for your appre- ciation of my disciples in N.Y. and you will be glad to know all my disciples in different centres are being so trained. The four principles of restriction, namely, no illicit sex relations; no animal food; no in- toxication; and no gambling, are acting on their character. Character building is the groundwork for seating Krishna Con- sciousness and the Vedic injunction is that one can advance in spiritual life by follow- ing the rules of austerity and celibacy. We do not bluff our students that he has lib- erty to do all sorts of nonsense, and at the same time advance in spiritual under- standing. And because we are a little bit Strict in this matter, we have not a very large number of followers, neither do we want any large no. nonsense followers. We want only one moon at night, and we do not care for millions of stars. When we meet we shall talk further on this matter, and I hope you shall be initiated. I thank you very much for your nice letter, and hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-19 Los Angeles 20th January, 1968 Hari Bhaktanudas Sri Krishna Pandit 4092 Kuncha Dilwali Singh Ajmary Gate, Delhi 6 INDIA My Dear Sri Krishna Panditji, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated January 13, 1968. I have noted the contents care- fully, and I thank you very much for you receiving my three disciples, Achy- utananda, Ramanuja, and Harivilas when they were in Delhi. So far your coming here I think at the present moment it is impossible for the reason that the government of India will notallow anyone to go to foreign countries by spending Indian money. This time when I was coming back to the U.S. I had a great deal of trouble. Though when I went to the U.S. Consul General my visa was granted in 1/2 hours. The gentle man in charge was an Indian and as soon as he saw me he told me, “Swamiji, I’ll give you your visa; simply wait here for half an hour.” So it was Lord Krishna’s Grace. My granting of the P-form was also de- layed. My travelling agents had so many difficulties in getting my P-form. The form was sent to the chief controller in Bombay and returned after a month after several telephone conversations from Cal- cutta to Bombay. Then he sent instruc- tions that if I had money from America I could go. So with great difficulty I had to convince him. So even if I say that you are required for 288 Letters from Srila Prabhupada my service, which of course, will be a kind of luxury for me, and even if I ask Seth Jaydayl to pay for your passage, the ex- change controller will not allow you to come. That is a fact. Now the only possi- bility of your coming is there if you can in- fluence Dr. Zakir Hussin, convincing him that we are spreading a great cultural organi- zation in the foreign countries, and he should allow us to take parties from India for SAMKIRTAN in other countries. If you think you can see Dr. Zakir Hussin with our propaganda papers and if you think he will allow this cultural propagation, then there is a chance for your coming here. India government has cultural dept. and it is learned that Indira Gandhi is in- terested in sending learned scholars to spread Indian culture in foreign countries. I am already doing this. It is accepted by the highest authority here in U.S., namely the Ambassador of India. If you can con- vince Dr. Zakir Hussin, he also knows me well. You can refer my name when you meet him, that I am the same man who presented him English Srimad Bhagwa- tam, and he highly appreciated it. At that time, I requested him to give me facilities to go to foreign countries, and he prom- ised to do his best. Now, somehow or other, I am here and ask him if he will al- low SAMKIRTAN party to come here. I have got many friends in India who have got money to pay the expense for com- ing. So if your acquaintance with Dr. Zakir Hussin can help you in getting a SAMKIR- TAN party to come here, then two strokes will be accomplished at once. I shall be glad to know the result of your attempt. There is government cultural dept. for this; itis simply a matter of convincing him. On hearing from you I shall be glad to give fur- ther instructions in the connection. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68- 1-20 Los Angeles 21st January, 1968 Montreal My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I become vvery much proud of nonsense rascal dis- ciples like you. Lord Chaitanya Maha- prabhu represented Himself as a nonsense rascal to understand Vedanta philosophy. Actually, at the present day the people in general cannot understand Vedanta phi- losophy. The other day I met here Swami Pravhavananda, and I talked with him. To speak plainly how I found him—a great rascal. I know that this station is one of Rama-Krishna mission, beginning from Vivekananda, down to this age, all are liv- ing in fool’s paradise. Pravhavananda said that Rama-Krishna in his previous life was Lord Chaitanya. Similarly it is said that he was formerly Rama and Krishna. If actu- ally he was Rama and Krishna and Lord Chaitanya, why there are so many contra- dictions between Rama, Krishna, and Lord Chaitanya one side, and the Rama- hansa (Rama-Krishna Paramhansa) on the other side. Do you think that the Rama- hansa was Lord Chaitanya and just after 400 years he changed the whole philoso- phy? Lord Chaitanya propagated worship of Krishna; Krishna propagated that one should worship Him, Krishna; how is it that this Rama-Krishna worships the ma- terial goddess Kali? Ask the question. So, such rascaldom is going on all over the world. So we have to be very careful in un- derstanding Krishna Consciousness and therefore if we remain continuously ras- cals and try to understand Krishna Con- sciousness, to understand Krishna as He has spoken in the Bhagavad Gita or in other Vedic literatures through the right sources of disciplic succession, that is our real knowledge. The idea is everyone should try to pace himself as if he doesn’t JANUARY, 1968 289 know anything. That is his position is se- cure. But as soon as he says that I know everything, and I was previously such and such, actually rascal. So I know that you are trying to know things from the real source, and you are not puffed up like other fools who think that they know ev- erything. Your humbleness is very much appreciated by me. Regarding your questions about Easy Journey: Purusha is Krishna, and Vishnu Tattwa, Vishnu expansions. In Gita, in 10th Chap., it is accepted by Arjuna that Krishna is the Original Purusha or pre- dominating factor or the Supreme En- joyer. Stree is the enjoyed, or the energy, or the potency. God has got 3 energies in the spiritual world. One energy is existen- tial, one is cognition, one is enjoyment. The same energy when reflected in the material world is exhibited in 3 mode— goodness, passion, and ignorance. Good- ness is manifested in proper maintainence of the creation in the gradual develope- ment of spiritual realization, passion is exhibition in the matter of production, and ignorance is exhibited in the absence of real happiness. All these internal ener- gies are acting in favor of the Supreme Pu- rusha; in the spiritual world they are acting harmoniously and in the material world they are acting in forgetfulness. Prakriti or stree is in forgetfulness is zero; and the living entities is also prakriti or stree, but he is in forgetfulness in the ma- terial existence. The living entities, the same living entities in cognition, are lib- erated souls, residents of the spiritual world. Daivi means pertaining to the Su- preme Purusha or Brahma. In everything there is Daivi influence; the Daivi influ- ence is beyond the control of the living en- tities. Therefore the Daivi energy is Spiritual energy or internal potency. I think you can develop this idea and if you have still any doubt you can put questions. Nirguna means untouched by material contamination. In Bhagavad Gita it is said that the Supreme Enjoyer is uncontami- nated by the material qualities of good- ness, passion, and ignorance, but His qualities are transcendental without any touch or tinge of material qualities. For example: sex life, the most prominent fea- ture of this material world. This sex life is explained in Srimad Bhagwatam, 3rd Canto, in the explanation of Vaikuntha world, when it is said that in the Vaikuntha planets, the women or the fair sex is many many more times beautiful, well-con- structed, their face and smiling more at- tractive, their breasts and hips are very high, and they clearly and freely mix with male devotees,, But their strong sense of devotion towards the Lord and being ab- sorbed in Krishna Consciousness, all the features of womanly beauty cannot stimu- late their sex passion. In the material world the same reflection of beauty and bodily features at once stimulate sex pas- sion. Therefore, the enjoyment of oppo- site sex in the Vaikuntha world has no action of sex life whereas in the material world the perverted reflection of beauty has resultant action of sex life which is the cause of dragging material existence. So the description of the Vaikuntha life is nirguna, and the description of worldly life is sahaguna. Our devotional activities are executed by transferring epithet; our senses are there, they are acting pervert- edly and putting us into difficulty. The Im- personalist philosopher wants to stop this difficult reactions of the senses but they don’t know how to place the senses in healthy life. For example: one may try to get out of diseased condition. This at- tempt does not mean that one should be killed so that one may get out of miserable condition of diseased life. The real method is to remove diseased condition and be placed in healthy life. Krishna Consciousness means to get out of the ma- terial qualities and be reinstated in the 290 Letters from Srila Prabhupada spiritual nirguna activities. When one can understand nirguna he can understand nirakar, also. This akar or form of mate- rial existence is temporary. When we get out of this temporary changes of different forms as we are transmigrating from one form to another and be placed in our real spiritual form, or purified our existence, that is called nirakar. Or in other words nirakar means absence of material form. Praiidrabya is mentioned by Dr. Naik as the counteracting agent of matter. I do not know whether this word is in Bhagavad Gita, but praii means transcendental and drabya means matter, that which exists. This praiidrabya is explained in Gita as paraprakriti or internal energy which is exhibited in the transcendental world. What interpretation I have replied Dr. Naik later. We have one difference of opinion of the scientific statement of anti- matter. I have interpreted antimatter as spiritual where there is opposite matter or eternal. Matter is temporary manifesta- tion and I interpreted antimatter as eternal manifestation or paraprakriti. Your attempt to present a nice article on Krishna. Consciousness on the basis of scholastic understanding is very much en- couraging to my mission, and I shall be thinking successful in my mission when you present your Krishna Conscious arti- cle before the misguided philosophers and religionists of the world. Vedanta means ultimate knowledge. Knowledge is never perfect unless one comes to the point of understanding Krishna. To remain in Krishna Consciousness is actual under- standing of Vedanta. Anything which is not Krishna Consciousness is polluted profane consciousness. Generally the phi- losophers are acting on the mental plane. The Bhagwatam clearly confirms it, un- less one is not situated in Krishna Con- sciousness he is sure to fall down to material consciousness because he has no other platform. Just like one man flying in the sky, if he doesn’t get any supporting planet, he has to come back again on the planet from which he started. Similarly those who are hovering on the mental plane, they must come back to the mate- rial manifestation without being in knowl- edge of spiritual life. The marginal position of voidness be- tween Brahma jyoti and the material world manifestation is the destination of the Buddhist philosophers. Therefore the voidness philosophy is worse than Imper- sonalist philosophy. This voidness phi- losophy is simply nirvana, or absence of material manifestation, but actually it is a material stand whereas Impersonalist monism is transcendental to material manifestation and voidness. Therefore the conception of Brahma jyoti is advanced re- alization than conception of nirvana. No- body can be satisfied in void or Impersonalist philosophy; they are against the nature of the spirit soul. We understand from Vedanta philosophy that the spirit soul is by nature joyful. There is no joy in voidness or Impersonalism and because such imperfect philosophers do not know of the association of Krishna which is full of bliss and knowledge, they will fall down repeatedly into voidness and Impersonalism with the result that they cannot stay there and they fall down to the material atmosphere. In Bhagavad Gita it is said by the Lord that these peo- ple, void and Impersonalist philosophers, are in great trouble. If they are fortunate enough to meet a pure devotee of Krishna and if they are sincere in their search for the absolute truth, they will find Krishna Consciousness as the last resort of their philosophical researches. Try to help these bewildered philosophers by presen- tation of your nice Krishna Consciousness thesis which you have prepared, and I am sure Krishna will help you in all respects. Simply your sincerity of service is re- quired and He will dictate from within JANUARY, 1968 291 you how to make your thesis. It will be a great service to the humanity, especially to the Western world. Regarding Baha’i philosophy: I have read the pamphlet you sent me, and I find in it that this Baha’i movement is more or less a humanitarian movement which has no spiritual information. Generally peo- ple are attracted by humanitarian move- ments and Swami Vivekananda was a popular figure of this platform but this hu- manitarian movement of the material plat- form is always unsuccessful because one has to counteract the 3 modes of material platform. I do not find any hint in Baha’i literature where one can surmount the re- actions of material qualities. The idea of Baha’i movement is more graciously pre- sented in our Krishna Consciousness movement. The Baha’i movement doesn’t take any consideration of living entities beyond the human society. But our Krishna Consciousness movement in- cludes everything in the creation of God. As a scholar, you can read such books but Iam sure it will not help very much in the matter of advancing our Krishna Con- sciousness movement. Humanitarian movements is certainly very attractive for the people in general, just like if you start a movement to stop war, it will be very at- tractive to the poeple in general. But as a matter of fact, war cannot be stopped. We aren’t after stopping the war, but we are after utilising war actions for satisfying of Krishna, as Arjuna practically per- formed. War cannot be stopped from the material world, but it can be purified. Therefore, so called humanitarians are our target of Krishna Consciousness. Their statement about Krishna that He is an Individual chosen by God as His repre- sentative means that they have no knowl- edge of God. They require to learn what is God, then they will understand Krishna. Generally speaking everyone has got the conception of God, but actually they do not know what is God. That is explained in Bhagavad Gita and Srimad Bhagwa- tam, therefore our knowledge of God is far better than any other one in the world. That means if the Baha’is do not accept Krishna as the Supreme Personality of Godhead, they have never read Bhagavad Gita as it is. Their claims of reading of Gita is false. You should try to convince them of the Supremacy of Godhead Krishna. Whenever we are able to meet such opposing elements about Krishna, we should know that our Krishna Con- sciousness is perfected. The Baha’i peo- ple if they are really sincere, they should try to understand Bhagavad Gita sin- cerely. As soon as they say they have un- derstood Bhagavad Gita and at the same time accept Krishna as a chosen indi- vidual person, their sincerity fails. There is less rational thinking in Baha’i philoso- phy as I can understand from the pam- phlet. There is already contradiction that they accept Krishna as chosen person and not as the Supreme Personality of God- head, that is contradiction of Bhagavad Gita. I have received letter from Prabhansu Chosal and I understand that they appreci- ate your service very nicely. I understand that your God-brothers are as your youn- ger dependent brothers; kindly treat them as your younger dependent brothers and try to advance them in Krishna Con- sciousness as good as youcan. The new boy who is from England, Chris, may be kindly treated so that when I go to Montreal in the month of May, I may be able to accompany the boy to En- gland and try to start a center there with his help. I have another disciple here, An- napurna, she also comes from England, and I think we may be able to do some- thing in England with the help of these boys and girls. Please treat Srimans Chris, Eric, and Ronald with good kindness. 292 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Yes, anything of which we have no conception, the unknown particle, that is the representation of Paramatma. Yes, your interpretation is quite feasible, be- cause from the Vedic literature that spiri- tual particle is measured as 1/10,000 part of the upper portion of the hair. So if the physicist’s conclusion about the measure- ment of the soul, that is 100 times finer than what they are already discovered. But however fine and smallest it may be, there is measurement of spirit soul, maybe beyond the experimental knowl- edge of human scientists. The confusion must continue because this measurement of spirit soul is beyond the range of experi- mental mind, and understanding. There- fore, confusion. Therefore you have to accept the experience of spirit soul from Vedic literature. If one tries to understand otherwise they will remain in confusion. Subject which is beyond their understand- ing by experimental knowledge, and if they try to understand it by the same ex- perimental knowledge, that means confu- sion. This has to be understood by descending process of disciplic succes- sion, or by deductive process, meaning for instance, my mother says this man is my father, I accept, there is no experi- ence. God’s name is therefore Adhoksa ja which means beyond experimental knowledge. You can inform them that here is statement in Vedic literature (Padma Purana) that the measurement of soul is 1/10,000 of the upper portion of the hair. You are meant for doing this and I shall assist you as far as possible. I thank you for your promise to send me one letter a week. We are trying to get U.S.A. Immigra- tion, permanent visa, and I am waiting for the result. Lord Chaitanya’s Birthdate is on the Phalgoonie Purnima between 15 of Feb. and 15th of March. The full moon day is Lord Chaitanya’s Birthday. I think you can send for Rayrama’s calendar which he has published. The exact day is 14th March, thursday, 1968. The procedure is that you should fast from morning to evening (about 7:00) after that there should be of- fering to Lord Chaitanya and prasadam should be accepted just like on Ikadassie day, and next day, Friday, full love feasting may be provided to as many devotees as you can. My dear Shivananda, I have received your letter. You are anxious to get my instructions of your ac- tivities. Ithink there is no need of getting a degree. If you can spare some time, you try to learn Bengali, from Sriman Prabhansu. It will be a great asset for our Mission; and as you have decided to work to get money, I quite approve. Be under the guidance of your elder brothersJanar- dan and you will progress nicely. Let Pra- dyumna live there in Boston; I have given him some tasks and he will do them. Yes you can send the plant. I shall sug- gest your vibrator to Goursundar; and he will do the needful, because he takes care of my body. Hope you are all doing well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-21 Los Angeles 21st January, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 1/15/68. And I have noted the contents, especially the activities of Maya, carefully. Krishna Consciousness movement is actually dec- laration of war against Maya. The condi- tioned souls who wanted to enjoy this material world are captivated by the sex JANUARY, 1968 293 desires. If one wants to get out of this ma- terial existence, he must control sex de- sire. The whole scheme of Vedic civilization is based on this principle of controlling sex desire. There were 4 or- ders of life; Brahmachary, Grihastra, Vanaprasta, and Sannyas. The majority of the orders namely Brahmachary, Vana- prasta, and Sannyas are forbidden sex life. Only the householders are allowed sex life. That is also restricted. That means sex life is condemned throughout because that is the cause of material bondage. Feeling of sex life in young boys and girls is quite natural, but one has to check such sex life by reason, argument, and knowl- edge. The married boys and girls are there—in our society sex life is not forbid- den. If Jagatananda is feeling sex urge so urgently even at the age of 16 or 17, he must be prepared to take the responsibility of married life. When I was in India, Gargamuni wrote me plainly like that, and I at once allowed him to get married. Now I see that the boy and girl, Garga- muni and Karunamayee, are living hap- pily. So if Jagatananda is after that nice girl Leelasuka, he must arrange for mar- rying her. Otherwise where is the solu- tion? I cannot allow in our society any nonsense like illicit sex life at any circum- stance. Jagatananda must subdue his sex desire by constant chanting of Hare Krishna, and praying to Krishna to help him. If not he must be prepared to marry and take the responsibility fully. As his el- der brother you will please instruct him of my desire. Actually the association of young boys and girls is very much disruptive for Brahmachary life, but in your country it is impossible to stop free mixing of young boys and girls. So voluntarily they have to check these sex desires until they are mar- ried. If they are strong enough in Krishna Consciousness any amount of sex urge will not disturb them. Even it disturbs, it will come and go, Krishna is Madan Mo- han, or the Enchanter of Cupid. And Cu- pid is the god of sex desire. So if anyone wants to enchant Cupid, instead of being enchanted by Cupid, he must take shelter of the Enchanter of Cupid, Sri Krishna. So far I am personally concerned, Kir- tanananda was doubtful about my exis- tence because he thought that I am de- pendent on his massaging, so the thought that there is no necessity of Spiri- tual Master, because Spiritual Master is an ordinary man, and to depend on an or- dinary man is a tyranny. Therefore one should always think of Spiritual Master not an ordinary man. You are intelligent and advanced in Krishna Consciousness, and you can understand what is the attack of Spiritual Master by Maya. Maya’s duty is to keep the conditioned souls under her clutches, so if there is any hindrance by anyone in the discharge of her duties, she must attack the opposite party. But Krishna saves his sincere servant in Krishna Consciousness. The Pandavas were declared devotees of Krishna and so many troubles in their life; but ultimately they were victorious by the Mercy of Krishna. This is the pro- cess of understanding Krishna and his devotees. Subal is here ___ have told him that Krishna is helping him in the matter of __ complete freedom from blood and bone. He is with me here and he is happy. If Krishna devi comes and joins him again it is better, otherwise, he will forget Krishna devi and be fully engaged in Krishna’s service during the rest of his life. He is very sincere servitor and I am confident Krishna is attracting him more and more by His Causless Mercy. Do not be worried about him. The answer (why Maya dealt me a near death blow) is that Hiryanakashipu the agent of Maya tried to give so many death blows to Prahlad Maharaj, but in each and 294 Letters from Srila Prabhupada every case he was saved. There is more credit for him on behalf of Krishna. This is replied in Bhagavad Gita, “O, my dear son of Kunti, just declare it throughout the whole world that my devotee is never van- quished.”’ So it will take some time to un- derstand what Krishna’s plan is, but rest assured, a devotee of Krishna is never vanquished. I am not going to write to Jagatananda separately, you inform him everything. I am negotiating with one place in In- dia for publishing Back to Godhead, at least 10,000 copies per month, at a con- cessional rate. Please consult with Ray- rama and let me know your opinion about this. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am very anxious to deliver the MSS to Mac Millan Co & get the Contract signed by them along with check of $1000.00 68-1-22 Los Angeles 21st January, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Brahmananda, and Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I must thank you all, especially since I have re- ceived a note from Adwaita Brahmachary reading as follows, “Everything is going very well in New York. I am so fortunate to have such sincere God-brothers like Rayrama, Brahmananda, and Rupanuga to help guide me in Your absence.” Please continue this spirit of Krishna Conscious- ness and you will be blessed by Krishna more and more. I am so very happy to have such report from an impartial mem- ber. Hope you are feeling well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-23 21st January, 1968 New York My Dear Adwaita, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Jan. 17, 1968, and I quite approve your planning on becoming a householder, and at the same time serve the cause of our society. A Krishna Conscious member even though he is a householder may spend at least 50% of his income for the society. The Brahmacharies are dedicated their life and everything but the householder should spare at least 50% of income for the society. That is the standard distribu- tion of money example set by our prede- cessors, Srila Rupa Goswami, and Srila Sanatana Goswami. We may try to follow the footprints of our predecessors. Srila Rupa Goswami used to distribute his money as follows: 50% for Krishna, 25% for relatives, and 25% for personal emer- gency expenditures. I think this is very nice. Yes, it is correct as you have handled the draft. As you have played the part of crazy, there is no necessity of reporting. That is quite in conformity. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-24 22nd January, 1968 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I have duly received back the tapes from San Francisco. Herewith please find another tape. I have received back the edited pa- pers on Srimad Bhagavatam. Brahmananda & others cannot change the style. They want to see if there is any grammatical discrepancy. JANUARY, 1968 295 I understand that sometimes you feel sex urges and frustration. In the material world sex urge is the binding force for ma- terial existence. A determined person tol- erates such sex urges as one tolerates the itching sensation of eczema. If not one can satisfy the sex urge by legitimate mar- riage. Immoral sex life and spiritual ad- vancement are incompatible proposition. Your full engagement in K.C. & constant chanting will save you from all inconven- iences. You have accepted me as father, so I have also accepted you as my dear and real son. Relationship of father & son on spiri- tual platform is real and eternal, on the material platfom such relationship is ephemeral and temporary. Although I cannot give you anything as father, still I can pray to Krishna for your more & more advancement in K.C. Your sincerity & service mood will always help you in ad- vancing your genuine cause. Hope you are well, Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-25 Los Angeles 22nd January, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I acknowl- edge receipt of your letter dated Jan. 16, 1968, and noted the contents with plea- sure. The idea of opening an ashram in the near future is certainly a wish of Krishna’s. To develope our institution to its fullness, we require such an ashram without doubt. Child is the father of man, so the basic principle of any type of life is to instruct to the children from the very beginning. Krishna Consciousness. Chil- dren grow to be thetopmost leaders of the human society. In the Bhagwatam it is said that the Brahmins are the head of the so- cial body, the Kshyatrias are the arms of the social body, the Vaishas are the waist of the social body, and the Sudras are the legs of the social body. The legs may be placed in a lower position than the head ephemerically, but actually the legs are as important as the head for maintaining the body as it is. It is not that the legs should not be taken care of and just the head should be cared for. But it is a fact that if there is not a head it is a dead body. The modern civilization is a sort of a social body without a head, or actually it is a dead body. The body is dead since the very beginning of it’s birth, and it is the spirit that keeps it moving. Therefore, spiritual enlightenment is the basic princi- ple of civilization. The modern civilza- tion is lacking in that respect and there are so many disadvantages on account of this deficency. So we have to grow children to become the head of the human society and there is great need for this. I pray Krishna that you may give a starting to such an ashram in full Krishna Consciousness. In the ashram there must be a grand temple as the diety of the ashram. Another proposal is I want to form a samkirtan party in which two members will play mridanga, eight will play the cymbals, two will play on tambora, and one harmonium, besides that there will be the leader of the party. This party will be so trained that exibitions of our chanting and dancing along with distribution of prasadam will be performed on a stage and for this performance we will sell tick- ets to the public. It will be known as a spiritual movement. Suppose if we begin it fron New York and there is good re- sponse from the public, then our attempt will be successful prior to our traveling all over the world. We will earn money by stage exibitions and attract attention of the elite public and move from one station to another. A shorter type of this exibition was held during our television show and 296 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the performance was very much appreci- ated. So I want to train such a party imme- diately. I do not know where such training will take place, but I want to do it immedi- ately in my presence. So consult with Brahmananda and others about this pro- posal. Give me your return suggestions about this proposal. I quite approve your plan for manufac- turing Jagganathas and do some profit out of it for maintenence of our temple. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I think you can save money for this Ashram as much as possible. The Ashram may be named as ““JSKCON-Nagari’’ or New Vrindaban and a separate a/c may be opened in the Bank. 68-1-26 Los Angeles 22nd January, 1968 My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated January 20, 1968. Los Angeles is very pleasant with clear sky and plenty of sunshine. Regarding diacritical markings, you may refer to the book First Lessons in San- skrit Grammar and Reading by Judith Ty- berg of the East-West Cultural Center published in 1964. Each letter should be transliterated in a careful manner so that one may be-able to know the Devanagari character corresponding. Devanagri type characters will not be there in this new book we are preparing. Markings are as follows. Here follows the Sanskrit alphabet and English equivalents as are found in Bha- gavad Gita etc. [SANSKRIT CHARACTERS] You may use the facilities available to you if there is no risk of making trouble. But so far as stealing is concerned, one should not steal except in the rarest cir- cumstances. Moral principle is reccom- mended in all scriptures as prerequisite for spiritual culture. If the conduct of the pure devotee crosses the lines of ordinary morality it is because he acts on the plane of Absolute Morality which is not known to the conditioned soul and cannot there- fore be imitated. So generally we should be careful to observe good moral conduct. Please clear any doubts you may have about what is to be done. You may begin work of transliterating as soon as possi- ble. Hope you are well. Your Ever Wellwisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-27 Los Angeles 23rd January, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your nice long letter of 1/19/68, and of 1/17/68, and have noted contents carefully. We will phone Ravi Shankar and make some arrangements with him as is possible. Regarding Hanuman Prasad Poddar, he is not so formidable rascal, but you can read his literature. He is a sincere worker in Krishna Consciousness. His defect is that he is Impersonalist, but he can not remain long an Impersonalist be- cause he is devoted to Radha and Krishna. Recently he has sent me one letter of ap- preciation for my activities here. There is no objection to reading his books. Re- garding the other books; keep them very nicely, and I shall see when I go there to New York. You might have received an- other book perhaps, by Bhaktisaranga Goswami. This book by mistake was sent, perhaps: it has to be returned. The proper form of address to Bhaktivinode Thakur is Om Vishnupad Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur. After my JANUARY, 1968 297 Guru Maharaj, all acharyas should be ad- dressed as Srila. “Om Vishnupad Srila”. Regarding Krishna devi: You have been misinformed by Krishna devi. I have never given permission for a new hus- band. Rather, I asked her to come back immediately and join her husband, Subal. Subal might have informed her that if she loves Krishna at all, then she may live peacefully with her new husband, but let her conduct the Santa Fe center, and that will be proof of her love for Krishna. I have directly asked her to come join her husband. If she doesn’t come, Subal has decided not to accept any other wife, but to remain in Krishna Consciousness alone for the rest of his life. Krishna devi is in the strong clutches of Maya, and she wants to have a new husband under any pica. I have never allowed her in that way. But if she served Krishna’s cause, I will not disallow her, because that is our main business. My point is that she must con- duct that center, not that I have encour- aged her to accept this boy. If she wants to keep this new friend, and keep up the S. F. center, I welcome it, but not that I am en- couraging her to have a new husband. Regarding Buffalo center: Purushot- tam may be sent, but the planning of Ru- panuga to go to Washington D.C. may not be changed. My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. It is my desire that you may not change your present program for going to Washington. I have advised Brahmananda to send Purushottam to Buffalo. In the meantime, I am also writing one letter to Mr. Goel; the copy of my recent speech on Krishna . Consciousness I will send to him. Also, I am sending you one copy of said speech, and it may be published in Back to God- head. I have also sent this speech to West Germany. Find herewith enclosed copy of letter to Mr. Goel, and speech. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-28 Los Angeles 24th January, 1968 New York My Dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter brought to me by Ray- arama. Yes, 15 minutes is sufficient time for the offering to remain on the altar. You do not need to lay down Lord Jagganath on a bed, by mantra you say my dear Lord please take rest. In temples, there are two sets of dieties, the big set is always on the throne, and the smaller set is handled, taken out for a stroll, laid to bed, etc. There is no difference in the small and large set, of course. The prayer means: I offer my respectful obeisances to my Spiritual Master who has opened my eyes by the torch of knowledge, while I was in the darkness of ignorance. That book speeches by Bhaktisaranga Goswami may be kept carefully. It has to be returned. In mean time, if you like, you can copy it by typewriter. My dear boy, lecturing for Krishna has nothing to do with this body. If I would not have lectured, how you would have come? So as far as possible I am taking care of my health, but Krishna’s service must be exe- cuted, even at the risk of life. A living en- tity gets millions of opportunities to get a type of body, but hardly he gets opportu- nity to serve Krishna. The service of Krishna must be executed at all risks, but do not worry; I am taking care of my health by the help of Goursundar. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 298 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-1-29 Los Angeles 25th January, 1968 My Dear Balai dasi, Please accept my blessings. Thank you for your letter of Jan. 8, 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. Regarding your questions: Yes, leave Krishna’s plate for 15-20 minutes or more, not more than half an hour. After offering the plate, the balance in the pots should be distributed immediately. The plate can remain on the altar while the rest is being distributed. Any initiated girl can take part in prep- aration of prasadam, and even a boy who is not initiated cannot take part. Maya and living entities are different energies of Krishna and all of them are eternal. Maya is acting under the direction of Krishna but her task is to punish the re- volted living entities; therefore, she has to business in the spiritual platofrm. Maya cannot go to Krishna means that Maya’s influence cannot be active in the presence of Krishna. The example of darkness can be given herein. The darkness has no exis- tence in the presence of sunlight, simi- larly Maya cannot exist in the presence of Krishna. As darkness and light exist eter- nally, similarly, Maya and Krishna exist eternally, but Maya has no existence in the presence of Krishna. Try to understand this simile. The material body has got heart and Krishna is seated there with the jiva in His Paramatma feature. Krishna is so power- ful that He can become smaller than the smallest and greater than the greatest. He can keep millions of skies within His Belly and at the same time He can enter within the existence of the smallest atom. He can enjoy eternally in Vrindaban with His Associates, at the same time He can present Himself in every nook and corner of His Creation. These are some of the in- conceivable potencies of Krishna and as such living entity can never be equal with Krishna. The Mayavadi philosophers try to keep Krishna and living entities on equal level and that is proof of their less intelligence. I hope you will understand these expla- nations, and distribute them to your other God-brothers and sisters. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-30 26th January, 1968 My Dear Daughter Krsna devi, Please accept my blessings. Thank you very much for your letter postdated Jan 25, 1968, and I thank you very much for your proposal to come here and see me. I shall be so glad to see you and Danny per- sonally as soon aas possible. I requested you takecharge of the Santa Fe Center be- cause you were doing the job very nifely, and I still hope that your presence there will solve all the problems recently cre- ated. Mistakes there may be in our life, but if we stick to Krsna Consciousness, Krsna will surely put cus on the right path. Your husband Sriman Subal das is living with me very peacefully, and he is carving Radha and Krsna, from hard wood. So this life of material existence is just like hard wood and if we can carve Krsna out of it, that is the sucess of our life. So, at any circumstances you must not forget Krsna. I love you at my heart and therefore I gave you the name Krsna devi dasi. Don’t forget Krsna even for a single moment; chant Hare Krsna loudly or slowly as it my be convenient. But don’t JANUARY, 1968 299 forgetto chant the Holy Name. I hope ev- erything will be all right as soon as you come here with Danny, and I am awaiting your arrival with great interest. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-1-31 Los Angeles 29th January, 1968 Manager, Trade Bank & Trust Co. 2nd Avenue at 4th Street New York, N.Y. 10003 Dear Sir, Please transfer by air mail three hun- dred and eighty „dollars and no cents ($380.00), to the Bank of Baroda LTD., Chandni Chowk, Delhi, India, for credit of my savings account No. 1432 And debit my savings account No. B 19282 with you. My passbook is enclosed herewith, which please make up and return to me along with your mail transfer receipt, and oblige. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami By registered post with A.D. Enclosure-Passbook 68-1-32 Los Angeles 29th January, 1968 Manager, Bank of Baroda LTD. Chandni Chowk, Delhi India Dear Sir, I beg to inform you that today I have advised the Trade Bank & Trust Co. of New York to transfer by air mail three hundred and eighty dollars and no cents ($380.00) for credit of my S.B. account No. 1432, with you. The purpose for transferring this amount is to pay press bill in India, for printing cost. The copy of letter from Radha Press, Delhi, is enclosed herewith for your reference. Please acknowledge receipt hereof and oblige. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours truly, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enc. 1 copy of letter 68-1-33 Los Angeles 30th January, 1968 Allston, Massachusetts My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am just in receipt of your letter of yesterday’s date, along with a copy of Srimad Bhagwatam 316/1, beginning from page 1708. I have sent 1 tape this morning, probably you are getting tomorrow. So far I have received your edited copy of Sri- mad Bhagwatam it is very nicely done. For the last few days I am feeling a little trouble in my brain. There is a buzzing sound always which sometimes disturbs me, and therefore my taperecordings in dictaphone has become a little slow, but I will go on sending tapes as far as possible. I understand that some of our students are in Boston, and they are not attending the Temple or cooperating with you. This means they are under theclutches of Maya more or less. After all, Krishna Con- sciousness is difficult job for less intelli- gent persons. But one who understands Krishna Consciousness and acts accord- ingly, he should be accepted as spiritually the strongest man. In the Chaitanya Charitamrita it is said that persons who take to Krishna Consciousness are sup- posed to be the most intelligent man. Ihave received one letter from Krishna devi and I have asked her to come here and 300 Letters from Srila Prabhupada settle up the misunderstanding. Her hus- band Subal is here with me and he is very peaceful sincere boy. If Krishna devi doesn’t come back and live with him peacefully, then his decision is to live alone without any wife. I think this boy can do so. Anyway, if Krishna devi comes we shall see things nicely mitigated. Regarding Maharishi Mahesh: I do not know much about his activities, but so far I have heard that he has got his par- ticular type of mantra which he sells for $35. And there are hundreds of students for being cheated by him. Anyone who does not know the science of Krishna is a great fool, and if he poses himself as Spiritual Master, he must be cheating the public without any doubt. Your process of discouraging friends in the matter of their being cheated by such misnomer is very good. You know that out of many millions of people, somebody tries to be spiritually advanced. And out of many millions of spiritually advanced men, hardly there is one who understands Krishna Consciousness. So, in your country there are many who may be spir- itually inclined, but because they want to be cheated, Krishna sends them many kinds of cheaters to bewilder them. It is understood that Maharishi Mahesh says that one can drink, and at the same time make advancement in meditation, is clearly a cheating process. But what can be done, your countrymen also wants to be cheated like that. They want to con- tinue their illicit sex relationships, intox- ication habit, meat eating, and all other nonsensical things, and at the same time they wantto make spiritual advancement. This is clear indication of being cheated; nobody can make any advancement in spiritual life keeping himself conditioned by the above sinful activities. So you can judge yourself what is the position of the so-called Maharishi Mahesh, and try to help your friends in such a way. There is no need of talking with people who are in- terested in the Maharishi Mahesh, but if you have any sympathetic friends, you can let him know how the cheating process is going on. I do not think that his disciples claiming advancement in spiritual life is bonafide. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami FEBRUARY 68-2-1 Los Angeles lst February, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of 1/29/68. Yes, I very much approve of Mr. Kallman’s idea for the book on “‘Tran- scendental Meditation.” Rayrama has be- gun work on it already, and probably he will bring it back to N.Y. with him. Mu- kunda talked to Ravi Shankar and he said he is too busy with recordings and mov- ies, etc. The specimens of paper are all nice, any one of them will be suitable. But I pre- fer the 70 or 60 Ib. Your letter to Village Voice is very nice, and is written right to the point. I have made an Ishtagoshe file, and I shall go on putting the reports there as you send them. Lord Jaganatha is one feature of Krishna as so many features, as Lord Na- rayan. Jaggat means universe, and natha means Lord, the Lord of the Universe. Today I have received one urgent letter from Achyutananda Brahmachary. He is doing very nicely with preaching work at Kanpur. He has held many seminars, at different places, and the educated circle (lawyers, teachers, etc.) are taking part in his preaching work. Kanpur is the next important city after Calcutta and Bombay. Therefore his decision to start immedi- ately one center at Kanpur is acceptable. As proposed previously, $10 from each center should be contributed for the In- dian American House. Now, you can im- Mediately sent him at the following address $100 from the book account. And for the next month we shall arrange to send him $60, collected from each center $10. He is requesting me to send you, Rayrama, and Rupanuga for sometime there for preaching work. Rayrama has al- ready sent him a note that he may be go- ing there, latest by April 1968. You had the program to go to India for some time, now you can arrange for your starting there. Kanpur is very important center, and there are many big business magnets, and 4 or 5 Brahmacharies staying there for sometime and preaching this mission will carry good effect. The bank should be ad- vised to transfer $100 by air mail to the following address; Achyutananda das Brahmachary, c/oN. Banerjea, 114 Elliot Road, Kanpur 4, India. Hope youare all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-2 Los Angeles lst February, 1968 Sri HareKrishna Aggarwal 177 Prem Kutia Marine Drive, Bombay India Dear HareKrishnaji, Please accept my greetings. I hope yourare allwell with your associates. You will be glad to learn that I came here to the United States in 1965, and since then I am preaching the Hare Krishna movement throughout the country. The Society’s name is as above, and I have got six branches at the present moment, as follows: 302 Letters from Srila Prabhupada ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 26 Second Avenue New York, N.Y. 10003 ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 518 Frederick Street San Francisco, Calif. 94117 ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 95 Glenville Avenue Allston, Massachusetts 02134 ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 5364 W. Pico Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif. 90019 ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 3720 Park Avenue Montreal 18, Quebec, Canada ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 411 B.W. Water Street Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501 Now I want to send a batch of trained disciples into India, and you will see how they are absorbed in this SAMKIRTAN movement. When I was in India, I had some talks with you and you were inter- ested in the matter of spreading the SAMKIRTAN movement, HARE KRISH- NA, HARE KRISHNA, KRISHNA KRISHNA, HARE HARE. HARE RAMA, HARE RAMA, RAMA RAMA, HARE HARE, all over the world. I shall be glad to hear from you if you still maintain the idea, and if so, there is ample opportunity now to spread this Bhagwat movement, backed by literatures like Bhagavad Gita, Srimad Bhagwatam, Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings, etc. which are already published. You will be glad to know also that my Gita under the title of Geetopanishad, or Bhagavad Gita as it is, is going to be published by Messrs. Mac- Millan and Co. of New York. Gradually they will take up my English version of Srimad Bhagwatam, Brahma Samhita, etc. The younger section of this country, both boys and girls, are taking great inter- est in this movement. At present I have more than 100 students already initiated, strictly following the Vaishnava regula- tions. They are freed from following bad habits, namely; illicit sex life, intoxica- tion, gambling, and non-vegetarian diet. So there is ample opportunity for spread- ing this original Indian cultural movement all over the world, and because you have interest in it, I shall be very glad to hear from you by return of post how you can cooperate in this world wide movement. I shall request you in this connection to secure a copy of “Illustrated Weekly of the Times of India” , published on January 21, 1968, and see on page 38 how our movement is going on. Many papers in this country also, especially LIFE Maga- zine, Times of India, San Francisco Chronicle, and many other minor papers have printed articles about our movement. Many mayors of great cities, police offi- cials, have also appreciated our move- ment. The late Ambassador of India, now Governor of Assam, Sri B.K. Nehru, has also great appreciation for these activites. You will be glad to know that we draw no distinction of caste, creed, or national- ity. So if there is any possibility of uniting the whole human race under one religion, under one scripture, under one mantra, under one activity, then this movement will be active. Our mission is one God, Sri Krishna; one scripture, Bhagavad Gita; one mantra, HARE KRISHNA, HARE KRISHNA, KRISHNA KRISH- NA, HARE HARE. HARE RAMA, HARE RAMA, RAMA, RAMA, HARE HARE; and one activity, namely to serve Lord Krishna with life, wealth, intelli- gence, and words. I shall be glad to hear from you how much you are interested in this movement. FEBRUARY, 1968 303 On hearing from you favorably, I shall ar- range to send a batch of trained disciples of this country to exhibit in all important cities of India how they are working. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, Acharya 68-2-3 Los Angeles lst February, 1968 New York My Dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. You are al- ways engaged in Krishna’s service is the greatest pleasure for me, and I am feeling transcendental happiness. Actually bodily I am not getting much strength, but spiri- tually I am getting much strength because my spiritual children are growing in spiri- tual stength. That is my strength. That prayer ‘“‘Jagganatha Swami, Nay- ana Pathagami, Bhavatume.” For the time being, the Jagganathas can be transferred there, chanting this prayer. But if you can wait until my arrival that is better. It is nice to hold a special ceremony for that purpose. I would like to do it when I go to N.Y. Yes, when Jagganatha goes to sleep and when He rises up, to ring the bell is the custom. Ringing of bell is required even for offering prasadam. That is the system in all the Temples in Vrindaban. Your question; Does the Lord go to sleep so early and before everyone, and wake up so late, after everybody? The Lord is in- dependent and complete. He has nothing to do with everyone. He is Lord. After He wakes up He is washed, not before. Sri means opulence, auspicity. And therefore before remembering any friend Or superior, the Sri word is prefixed in so many forms. The real word is Sri; the oth- ers are all different forms of Sri. Yes, Lord Jagganatha is in the Spiritual Sky; every form of Krishna is in the Spiritual Sky. Ekadashi is observed for increasing the strength of devotion. Yes, the analogy concerning the spiri- tual body of the Sat-Guru is acceptable, but not in the material sense. In the mate- rial world, the gold box and the gold platedbox may be different in price, butin spiritual world there is no such distinc- tion. There the gold box and the gold plated box are the same. In material world there is difference between a sweeper and a cooker; in the spiritual world a person who sweeps the Temple and a person who worships in the Temple are all the same. That is absolute knowledge. Yes, the verse concerning Archa Vi- graha is like this: ‘“Acheaaseladhi Gurusu Nare Muti Vaishnave Jati Budhi.” The meaning is that one should not think of the Deity as made of stone, wood, etc. An- other verse is, ‘“Archaiam Evam Paria Ja Pujan Sadraya Hatay.” The meaning is that one who worships the Deity with great devotion but doesn’t show any devo- tion to the devotees of the Lord, or doesn’t preach Krishna Consciousness for the benefit of the general public, he is in the lower stage of devotional service. Yes, Sanskrit is spoken not only on Krishna Loka but also in higher planets, of the demigods. It is called the language of God and the demigods. It was spoken also on this planet, when people were all godly, they used to speak in Sanskrit. San- skrit is the origin of all languages of the civilized peoples. It is most perfect, not only descriptive; the word “Sanskrit” means ‘‘the most perfect”. Because not a single word you can pronounce without having a bonafide principle. It is not like the English language, “but, put” with ir- rational difference in pronunciation, no principles. Sanskrit isn’t like that. There- fore it is perfect. It isn’t whimsical. En- glish poetry has one line one inch long, 304 Letters from Srila Prabhupada next line 600 inches long. Sanskrit is not like that. There are strict principles, and it is so beautiful. Therefore in Sanskrit lan- guage not an ordinary man can become a poet. No other language of the world can be compared with it. No other language of the world is so perfect as Sanskrit. Any language near to Sanskrit language (like Bengali) is nearer to perfection. Sanskrit is pronounced same way here or there, it is standard. Yes you can sing prayers in Sanskrit, but prayers in English can be also pro- nounced because the Lord accepts the mo- tive not the pronunciation of the language. He wants to see spiritual motive. Even if some effectiveness is lost in translation, if the motive is there, it will make no differ- ence. Regarding your question about Go- pala; yes, Krishna can do anything, that is the principle. Foodstuffs can be offered at any place but with devotion and formalities. I thank you very much for your inquisi- tiveness, and Krishna will help you to un- derstand the Truth from within and without. I am very pleased for your en- deavor. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. You wanted to to to India. Now there is opportunity. Achyutananda is opening a centre at Kanpur the third important city in India. Rayrama and Brahmananda will shortly start for India. You can also go with them. Ask your parents to pay for the expenses. 68-2-4 Los Angeles 2nd February, 1968 New York My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter (undated), and I have noted the contents carefully. Krishna is so sublime and transcendental that He cannot be realized by mental speculation or by personal endeavor, education, or material acquisition. He can only be ap- proached and understood clearly by our service attitude, engaging all our senses in His service. The beginning of service is to engage our hearing organs, and receive the transcendental message by aural re- ception. And whenever we are mature in receiving the transcendental message from books like Bhagavad Gita, and Sri- mad Bhagwatam, via media the transpar- ent bonafide Spiritual Master, then we are able to chant or engage our tongue in the service of the Lord, being engaged in the service of the Lord. The material covering . of our senses becomes inactive and actual spiritual form of activity becomes mani- fest. I very much appreciate your devel- opement of this spiritual perception, and Krishna has given you a good chance in the matter of your proposed dealings with the U.N. Please immediately finish the job by incorporating our association in the U.N. It is a very good opportunity. Con- sult Brahmananda and do it immediately. In the future, we will have very great scope for introducing our Krishna Con- sciousness for leaders amongst all the na- tions. I think it is a very great opportunity for us, and we should utilize it. So far your going to Buffalo, Brahm- ananda will see to it, and if it is already changed I have no objection. We have to serve Krishna from any circumstance or position. That shall be our mode of life. It doesn’t matter where we live or where we serve. If possible, secure one copy of ‘‘Illus- trated Weekly of the Times of India”, Bombay, and you will find a nice article about ourselves on page 38. I think you can get this paper from any magazine store. It was published on January 21, 1968. FEBRUARY, 1968 305 I have no overwork; I am not working materially. Thanking you once more for your kind letter. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-5 Los Angeles 4th February, 1968 New York My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Janu- ary 1, 1968; and I am so proud to have such spiritual sons and daughters like you, who are so humble in their dealings but who are so high in their spiritual under- standing. Lord Chaitanya instructed us to be more humble than the grass on the street, and more tolerant than the trees, and to offer all respects to all, demanding no respect for ourselves. All these nice qualifications make one worthy to chant Hare Krishna. Just try to follow these principles and keep staunch faith in Krishna and in Spiritual Master, and your life will be successful without any doubt. Regarding Kirtan Party: My idea is that at least one dozen persons should form a Kirtan Party. Two persons play mdringams, eight persons play kartals, one person playing timboura, and one person playing melodious harmonium. The person who will play on timboura will be leader singer. You have just calcu- lated what I want, when you suggest that the leader should sing as I do, and the oth- ers will respond. That will be very nice. But all the members of the party will be pure devotees. None of them should be outsiders. We do not want any outsiders as far as possible. Mdringam playing as you are doing at present will make you more and more expert as you go on playing. Here also I see Goursundar simply by playing is improving. If all the members keep their faith in Krishna and tries to please Him, certainly everyone will be pleased by hearing our Kirtan. It is sure and certain. When such Kirtan will be demonstrated, only the harmonium player may sit, and all the others may stand up and join the Kirtan, and dancing properly dressed. This is actual idea and I hope if such Kirtans are performed even on pub- lic stage, we can sell tickets. That will bea source of earning to maintain our activi- ties. I am glad that Purushottam is trying to get our Society recognized in the U.N. as a non-government organization. And if it is successful, then we shall be able to per- form Kirtan in the U.N. stage. And if we are recognized by the representatives for different nations, then we may be invited from different parts of the world, then our SAMKIRTAN movement will be success- ful. Our process will remain the same eternally, namely, to begin with SAM- KIRTAN and prolong it at least for 1/2 hour, then speak something from Bha- gavad Gita, Srimad Bhagwatam, Brahma Samhita, etc. and invite questions and an- swer them. Then again concluded by chanting. This is my dream or idea, and I shall be glad if you, Brahmananda, Purushottam, Rayrama, and others can give this idea a practical shape and life, then I shall be very much thankful to you. Please convey my blessings to your good wife Himavati, and I hope to meet you very soon. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-6 Los Angeles 4th February, 1968 New York My Dear Labangalatika dasi, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your nice letter of January 28, andI 306 Letters from Srila Prabhupada thank you very much for it. The proper spelling of your spiritual name is LA- BANGALATIKA. The meaning of La- bangalatika is delicate, sometimes Radharani is addressed as Labangalatika. Please continue in your nice service at- titude and Krishna will always be pleased with you. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Send through Hansadutta 68-2-7 Los Angeles 4th February, 1968 My Dear William Odell, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter, and for your inquisitiveness. You are Krishna’s part and parcel. As you love your hands and legs, as you feel when your hand is in trouble, similarly Krishna feels for you when you are in trouble. The hand has value when it is attached to the body. Sim- ilarly, we have values when we are Krishna Conscious. The hand has no value detached from the whole body. Krishna is the Whole and we are His parts and parcel. Try to understand this phi- losophy of simultaneously one and differ- ent. The hand and body is created all at a time. It is not that the body is created first and then the hand is created. Our relation with Krishna is like the hand and the body. Therefore, Krishna and we both are eter- nal, and there is no history of eternity. It has no beginning and no end. Krishna is blue because He is all attractive. The sky is blue because it reflects Krishna’s blue colour in the spiritual sky as much as the sunlight is reflected through skylight glasses. I hope your questions are fully an- swered; if at any time you have got some questions, please write and send them to me. Thanking you once more for your nice letter. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-8 Los Angeles Sth February, 1968 San Bruno, California My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your nice letter postdated Feb. 3, 1968, and have appreciated your very nice Krishna Conscious sentiments. My ad- vice to you is to continue your good atti- tude that you are keeping now and this alone will help you in advancing your cause of Krishna Consciousness. Yes, it will be great advantage if you can chant so much as one lac of Names daily, and also read scriptures. This is good opportunity for you to learn to sing all the verses in the Srimad Bhagwatam as you began to do so nicely in San Francisco. That will be very nice. Namacharya Haridas Thakur was taken to the jail and he told the prisoners there, oh, you are so fortunate to have this opportunity to sit and chant the Holy Names without the Maya distractions of the outer world! So you should think like that, and use your time in the prisonhouse to the greatest advantage for spiritual ad- vancement. Please note that the other side of this page was appearing in the very popular magazine New Yorker, and even they are chanting Hare Krishna in mockery, still, it doesn’t matter. Just so long they are chant- ing Hare Krishna, that is the success of our mission. The Kazi’s men were break- ing up the Kirtan parties of the Lord, and in mockery some of them chanted Hare Krishna, and thereafter, their tongues would not stop singing Hare Krishna. Our FEBRUARY, 1968 307 tongues should be like that, unable to ever stop singing the Glories of the Lord. We practice, and someday it will be like that. Hope you are feeling well. And I hope you are receiving proper food there also. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-9 Los Angeles 7th February, 1968 My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter dated Feb. 5, 1968. Rayrama has already left for N.Y. on Monday night, so you can contact him there. Regarding your proposal for open- ing a center in London: I am prepared to go there at any moment. Even I do not mind the severe cold there. I have asked Hansadutta to organize a Kirtan party of 12 heads, so I wish to go there with a strong party for Kirtan and lecture. As you will be free by April 8, you may come to N.Y. just after discharging your repon- sibilities, and by that time I shall also reach there. So we shall consult together with Brahmananda, Rayrama, yourself, and myself, how to move all over the world with a Kirtan party. lam very much hopeful of being successful if only se- lected persons of my followers will forma Kirtan party and have an extensive tour all over the world. In the meantime we are trying to get membership (non-gov- ernment organization) in the U.N., and if we are fortunate enough to get this mem- bership, then we shall be able to attract the heads of all nations in this important movement. Our program for Krishna Consciousness is solid, and backed by most authoratative literature—Bhagavad Gita, and Srimad Bhagwatam,; there is no question of our not being popular to the world. Simply we have to present our- selves in true perspective. We can chal- lenge any rascals of the world but the difficulty is that it is folly to be wise where ignorance is bliss. Maharishi Mahesh has gained so much popularity over Europe or America, means the people of this part of the world are not very much advanced in spiritual science. What is there philoso- phy in the teachings of Maharishi Ma- hesh? He is very clever man to collect fund. He is proposing individual mantra which is complete nonsense, and he is charging for mantra and allowing his dis- ciples to enjoy life as they like. So these are all nonsense propaganda proposals, but people are blind in accepting his ad- vice. One thing is, however, clear, that the Western people are searching after some spiritual enlightenment in the real sense of the term. Bhagavad Gita with the right presentation and the program of Krishna Consciousness is the right prescription, simply we have to administer them with cool head and solid program. I think by the Grace of Krishna my working has pro- duced some sincere souls like yourself, Brahmananda, Hansadutta, and others. Now we have to chalk out a solid program by consulting together. In the Western countries, there is no dearth of men and money, as well as intelligence, simply to get them together and our program will be successful. My present program is that I am waiting for a little warmer climate oth- erwise I would have gone to N.Y. without waiting further. Therefore my present program is that I shall remain in the West- ern Coast, Cal., during Feb. and March. Then I shall go to New York in April. When I will come there and we’ll meet to- gether. Then I will go to Boston in May, then by the month of June I will go to Montreal. I think that is the best time. I shall remain in Montreal for June and July, then we shall go to England and pos- sibly from England, we may go to Am- sterdam, Paris, Berlin, etc. Now, man proposes, God disposes. I do not know 308 Letters from Srila Prabhupada what is Krishna’s desire, but I have chalked out my program like this. Pray to Krishna that He may give me strength to render some service to you and to the hu- manity at large. I have not yet received Ron Blackwell’s letter which you mentioned. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope you are continuing to study Bengali. I shall be glad to know how much progress you have made by this time. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-10 Los Angeles 8th February, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Your letter dated Feb. 5, 1968, is just in hand. It is very pleasing to me to see how your heart is working in Krishna Consciousness. I am very much hopeful of your future glo- ries in the matter of propagating this tran- scendental movement. Your remark that we cannot make Krishna our order sup- plier is very appropriate. We should al- ways try to supply everything to Krishna and we shall try to avoid any return by Krishna. That is Vaishnava philosophy. The Gopies and Radharani served Krishna without any expectation of mate- rial or spiritual profit. They never ex- pected any return from Krishna and Krishna remained ever indebted to the Gopies. Therefore Chaitanya Maha- prabhu exalted the worship method of the Gopies, and Krishna when He tries to un- derstand the heart of the Gopies, that is the transformation of Krishna into Lord Chaitanya. I am very much pleased to learn that things in New York are going nicely under your supervision, and I do not see any ur- gent reason that you shall go to India im- mediately. You are sincere pure soul, Krishna will give you His transcendental counsel as you shall require from time to time. I have seen the Life Magazine article; the pictures have come very sublime, and imperceptively they have admitted our su- perexcellence of chanting Hare Krishna. You have marked it that they have said: “The chanting of Hare Krishna continues to vibrate the brain for several days.” We want to inject this transcendental poison into the heart of the Maya-serpent bitten people in general. Krishna Consciousness by the sound of Hare Krishna, it continues for a moment in the brain of the rascals, then certainly it will act in future to help them to become Krishna Consciousness. In the Bhagavad Gita it is said: ‘‘Salpam api asya dharmasya trayete mahato bha- wat.” Bhawat means fearfulness. Even a slight injection of this transcendental vi- bration can save one from the greatest danger. In future, of course, we shall not be very cheap plaything in the hands of the so-called publicity leaders in the kingdom of Maya. We simply give them a little chance to serve Krishna, but we cannot accept their leadership. In future, there- fore, we shall agree to such publicity if they publish about ourselves exclusively. I think the Television proposal as written by you may be utilized in that way. Yes, I saw the late Ambassador Mr. B. K. Nehru at San Francisco Hotel and he and his wife received me well. He introduced me also with the Consul General, Mr. Bazpai. So , the meeting was nice and I understand that FEBRUARY, 1968 309 he has recommended my case as a perma- nent immigrant to the Immigration De- partment. His assistants and secretaries in the Embassy and Consulate General have written me letters confirming this. They have promised that they will do their best in getting my permanent visa, but usually it takes 5 to 6 months to complete the pro- cess. We have, however, submitted the Immigration application by the first week of January, 1968. So I think I shall have to wait for securing the visa. I quite appreci- ate your proposal that you cannot go out until the two books are published. I think you are missing the four points of Krishna’s superexcellent qualities to be added in the Teachings of Lord Chaita- nya. The four points are as follows: 1. He can create continuous waves of Transcen- dental Pastimes which attract the attention of everyone including His Vishnu Expan- sions, 2. His super-excellent beauty in the midst of Radharani and Her Associates, 3. His super-excellent sound of His Tran- scendental Flute, 4. His super-excellent beauty cannot be surpassed by anyone in the three worlds, namely, the material world, the Vaikuntha Loka, and Krishna Loka. I hope you will add these points to complete the vacancy. Yes, the essay for the booklet is also the script for the new record. I am very glad that Jadurany is inspecting our fine arts department. It is very much gratify- ing. Please offer my blessings to the new boy John. I am very much anxious to get our position as non-government organiza- tion in the U.N., please try for it your best. Ihave received leter from S.S. Brijbasi Company that by the approach of Hitsaran Sharma, they have immediately executed the order. And a copy of the letter is al- ready there in N.Y., and the documents are expected very soon. I have also re- ceived letter from United Shipping Corp. that the books, harmoniums, kartals, mri- dangas, etc., are already shipped on the 14th of January, and expected to arrive by the 20th of February. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-11 Los Angeles 8th February, 1968 My Dear JaiGovinda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you very much for your letter dated Feb. 5. Your attitude of humbleness is praiseworthy. A devotee should always re- main humble and meek especially to the authorities and devotees. Lord Chaita- nya’s philosophy is not to become God, but to become servant, servant, servant of God. The more one becomes the lower grade servant of the Lord, the more he is devoted nearer to the Lord. This is our philosophy. I have all my hearty blessings upon you, please do your duties nicely, and Krishna will be pleased to shower His Blessings upon you. He is very kind to sincere souls, and He gives intelligence from within to sincere devotees. We re- quire only to become sincere in the ser- vice of the Lord, then everything is there ready for our convenience. Regarding lecturing by woman devo- tees: I have informed you that in the ser- vice of the Lord there is no distinction of caste or creed, color, or sex. In the Bha- gavad Gita, the Lord especially mentions that even a woman who has taken seri- ously is also destined to reach Him. We require a person who is in the knowledge of Krishna, that is the only qualification of a person speaking. It doesn’t matter what he is. Materially a woman may be less in- telligent than a man, but spiritually there is no such distinction. Because spiritually everyone is pure soul. In the absolute plane there is no such gradation of higher 310 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and lower. If a woman can lecture nicely and to the point, we should hear her care- fully. That is our philosophy. But if a man can speak better than a woman, the man should be given first preference. But even though a woman is less intelligent, a sin- cere soul should be given proper chance to speak, because we want so many preachers, both men and women. I have seen the Life Magazine publica- tion about ourselves, and it is not bad. I am glad that Rupanuga has gone to Buf- falo for opening a center there. The orga- nizer, Mr. Goel, is a very nice boy, and I had some correspondence with him. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-12 Los Angeles 12th February, 1968 New York My Dear Bhakti Jan, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Feb. 10, 1968, and have noted the contents. The strong hand of Maya is insurmountable as it is stated in the Bhagavad Gita. But if one sticks to Krishna Consciousness with firmness, then he can easily surmount. My instructions I have already given to you, how to chant the beads, and how to protect yourself from the offences. I shall advise you again to chant always, increas- ing the counting, namely, 16 rounds is generally prescribed, but for the time be- ing you can stop all other activities and in- crease the chanting to 64 rounds. Follow the rules and regulations strictly. If you want sex life, you are at liberty to get your- self married. But don’t have illicit sex with some Maya’s representative. That won't help you in your spiritual advance- ment. We don’t forbid sex life, but we can- not allow illicit sex. For a young man it is very difficult to check sex desire, there- fore best thing is for him to get himself married, and live like a responsible gen- tleman. Irresponsible man cannot make progress materially, or spiritually. You’ re intelligent young man, you can under- stand things as we say, and you follow and you will be benefited. Mistakes we may commit because it is not out of human ac- tivity, but at the same time, we must use our good consciousness how to achieve the goal of our life, Krishna. Please stick to this chanting process, sincerely, with- out any offence, and everything will be all right with you. Thanking you once more for remembering me. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please try to assist Brahmananda till my arrival in New York in April 1968. When I shall meet you I shall give you a specific duty and I hope you will be happy to discharge it. ACB 68-2-13 Los Angeles 12th February, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 8, 1968. You want to counteract the activi- ties of Maharishi, but you must know Ma- harishi is the agent of Maya. Our process of Krishna Consciousness and SAMKIR- TAN movement is already counteracting the spell of Maya, but the Maharishi says that you remain under the spell of Maya. His preaching is that you enjoy, and sim- ply you pay him $35, and purchase his mantra. People in general are already un- der the spell of Maya. That is to say, they want sense gratification. If anyone encour- ages the method of sense gratification, FEBRUARY, 1968 311 at the same time become a yogi, why peo- ple will not prefer that method? We say there is no illicit sexlife, no intoxication, no meat eating, no gambling, so if Ma- harishi says there is no restrictions, natu- rally large number of people will follow him. That means they want to be cheated, and Krishna sends them a cheater. We cannot cheat people like him. We must say the truth, as they are prescribed; in the Bhagavad Gita there are 18 kinds of aus- terities, 13th chapter. The restrictions which we are following are austerities. Without austerity, without celibacy, any amount of nonsense meditation will not help. So there is no comparison of our method with Maharishi’s method. We are not out to counteract any kind of vandal- ism. We must preSent the genuine thing before the public, and if they are intelli- gent enough they will take it up and real- ize it. The followers of Maharishi are not intelligent class of men. If you have any advancement in the. knowledge of Bha- gavad Gita, you can test any follower of Maharishi, you will find he is nil. The idea for Japan is very nice, but who will bear the expenses, that is the problem. And who will take charge of the pavilion, that is the problem. If you can manage to construct such pavilion, I have no objection. But consult with Janardan and others in this connection. Your good wish is very nice, and I can also go there, but it requires thousands of dollars to give effect to such proposal. If you can do so, you can join Achy- utananda immediately, as you like. If you are able, you can go. You can correspond with Achyutananda, his address is as fol- lows: Achyutananda das Brahmachary, c/o Mr. N. Banerjea; 114 Elliot Road; Kanpur, 4; India. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-14 Los Angeles 12th February, 1968 Montreal My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter dated February 8, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. I am very glad to learn that you are holding Kirtan on the University campus, do it nicely. Do not bother your head about that rascal Maharishi Mahesh. His activities are like the waves tossing foam on the ocean. It will stay for some time and then vanquish. For the time the ocean appears to be all devouring, but in proper time it is calm and quiet. Krishna Con- sciousness isn’t like that. It is a great sci- ence. It requires great spiritual asset to adopt the principles. You have desired to meet with Maharishi Mahesh for argu- ment, and as Lord Chaitanya argued with Sarvabhauma Bhattacharya. Sar- vabhauma Bhattacharya was talking on the basic principle of Vedanta. So there was a via media interpretation. This man does not follow any Shastra or any au- thority. He is authority by himself, and has manufactured his own meditation pro- cess. Therefore, he is not standard. We cannot waste our time with a non-standard loafer class man. Therefore do not agitate your mind in this way. We are following the footprints of Lord Chaitanya. We are not going to become God, as Maharishi says every one of us is God. You should be firmly convinced in your own philosophy, Bhagavad Gita, otherwise you may be misled. Why don’t you try to convince the followers of Maharishi that they are fol- lowing a rascal, a cheat. Because he does not follow a standard process. So try to understand the followers of Maharishi, how far they have advanced in spiritual consciousness, and get it corroborated from the teaching of Bhagavad Gita as you 312 Letters from Srila Prabhupada learned. Lord Chaitanya talked with Sar- vabhauma on the basis of Vedanta Sutra. The Maharishi has no basic principle, he is manufacturing his own way. So it is use- less to talk with him. He has gathered the not very intelligent class of men, and they will not stay. We are teaching Bhagavad Gita as it is, that is called Krishna Con- sciousness. Why don’t you try to under- stand Maharishi from the point of view of Bhagavad Gita. To stick to the principles advised by the Spiritual Master and serve Krishna under the direction of the Spiritual Master is the only hope of our advancing in Krishna Consciousness. The Spiritual Master and Krishna are two parallell lines. You have to make your progress on these two parallel lines, you cannot avoid one in preference of the other. The train, on two tracks, moves forward. The Spiri- tual Master and Krishna are like these two tracks, they must be served simultane- ously. Krishna helps one to find bonafide Spiritual Master, and bonafide Spiritual Master helps one to understand Krishna. If one does not get bonafide Spiritual Master, then how he can ever understand Krishna? You cannot serve Krishna with- out Spiritual Master, or serve just Spiri- tual Master without serving Krishna. They must be served simultaneously. Yes, you may ask them to bow down, if they have made offense, they should bow down. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-15 Los Angeles 12th February, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 10, 1968, and have noted the contents. The matter is little more risky in the sense that the rent is $400 per month, but you have assurance from friends and your own re- sources of $250, so balance is $150 which I think you can collect from the meetings very easily. So far I am concerned I al- ways take risk for Krishna. I came here in your country risking my life. And still al- though I am physically unfit, I am trying to execute the orders of my Guru Maharaj as far as possible. So to take risk for Krishna is very good. You know the his- tory of my starting the society in 1966, it was all risky, and I was alone, but I took it depending on Krishna. So I think if you take the risk of $150, for Krishna’s sake, Krishna will supply you the required money undoubtedly. It depends however on your personal discretion, but I am hopeful that if you take the risk it will not be bad. In the meantime, Upendra is also released earlier from his internment, and I think if he takes some job he can also help. So try to open this branch and let us depend on Krishna’s Good Will. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-16 Los Angeles 13th February, 1968 My Dear Guru das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb.8, and have noted the contents. I have received also one letter from Upendra today, and I am so glad he is released within 10 days. That was my expectation when he came to see me, that he couldn’t be incarcerated for more than a week. This instance of suffering by a devotee should be carefully noted. As Upendra was in the beginning incarcerated for 3 months, it was reduced to one week; similarly, when a devotee is seen in trouble, it should be accepted as FEBRUARY, 1968 313 God’s Mercy. Just like Upendra’s suffer- ing for 3 months was destined by the law, but by the Mercy of God the suffering is reduced to one week only. So a devotee al- ways accepts his distress as minimized by God’s Mercy, although he would have to suffer many more times the suffering. Any one who accepts this philosophy of God’s Mercy in suffering conditions, and still makes progress in Krishna Con- sciousness, it is said that he is sure to go back to Home, Back to Godhead. Regarding Achyutananda’s letter to you: it is a fact that in Brahmachary Ashram no Griha. : are supposed to live, but the Ameri an House which we are now contemplating has no separate de- partment for Grihastras or Brahmacha- ries. Therefore for the present we cannot make such distinction in the American House. We are just beginning the Amer- ican House there and gradually we shall make departmental division later on. Your quotation from Lord Chaitanya that no- body should identify as a Brahmachary, Householder, Sannyasi, is quite correct. On the Krishna platform there is no such distinction. The only reason is that on the material platform sexlife is very predomi- nant. Therefore a Brahmachary is advised not to live with Grihastras. But if there’s strong sense of Krishna Consciousness, this distinction of material world will dis- appear in spiritual light. Anyway, so far you are concerned, I have received letter from Achyutananda which reads as fol- lows about yourself: ‘Yamuna and Guru- das are welcomed and they may come soon so I must have your decision.” So you can prepare yourself for going there and keeping correspondence with Achy- utananda, so that as soon as the house is settled there you can go with a car. I am keeping well. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-17 Los Angeles 13th February, 1968 Robert Pekala 32 Grove Street Burlington, Vt. 05401 My Dear Robert, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your inquisitiveness shown in your letter dated Jan. 30, 1968. And I am sorry that I could not reply this letter earlier, on account of being busy in my preoccupation. I am glad that you at- tended our class at Montreal and tried to understand the philosophy of Krishna Consciousness. It is neither sectarian nor dogmatic. It is the natural relationship of the living entities with the Supreme Soul. The Supreme Soul is Krishna, or the All Attractive; one cannot be Supreme Soul without being all attractive. If God is Su- preme, therefore the nomenclature of God to be addressed is Krishna perfectly well. If you are inquisitive to learn this sci- ence personally from me, I have no objec- tion if you come here and stay with me for some days. A school life isn’t an impedi- ment for becoming full time devotee, it is the question of devoting oneself sincerely to Krishna Consciousness. To prosecute Krishna Consciousness there is no limita- tion, no material impediment can stop progress of Krishna Consciousness. That is the symtom of spiritual life. Spiritual life doesn’t depend on material condi- tions. We have got many instances from the history of devotee’s life as Prahlad Ma- haraj. He was a small school boy, his fa- ther and teachers were all against God Consciousness. Still he flourished and converted all his class fellows to be Krishna Conscious in spite of severe trials experimented on his personal body. So it is only the question of understanding the process how to execute Krishna Con- sciousness. If you can therefore spare 314 Letters from Srila Prabhupada some time to live with me, it will be bet- ter. You appear to be a very intelligent boy and I hope you will learn the art quickly. Thanking you once more. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-18 Los Angeles 13th February, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to hear that you are released now; this Iexpected when you came to see me. I en- trusted the matter to Krishna to give you release. Anyway, Krishna has been so much merciful upon you that He has taken you out of the state laws. So in every kind of miseries we have to depend on Krishna and we should not be too much disturbed when such miseries come upon us. You have shown very great example in sticking yourself to chanting Hare Krishna while you were in tribulation. Follow this prac- tice all along your life, and surely Krishna will accept you into the Kingdom of God, Back to Godhead. So far going to India: For the time be- ing, it may be postponed because there is good prospect of starting a center at Berkeley, and Gargamuni is arranging for that. I think Gargamuni and yourself and Krishna das may be the main figures in conducting this center. In the meantime, the Indian center may be organized by Achyutananda, and later on we shall have to see where we shall have to concentrate more energy on the Brahmacharies. Your strong desire to serve me is very beautiful; your serving me means serving Krishna. I am also your servant so I can- not accept your service from you, or from any of my disciples. I accept service from my disciples on behalf of Krishna. Just like a tax collector must collect for the treasury, not for himself. If he himself touches so much as a farthing it would be unlawful. So I have no right to accept ser- vice from any disciple, but on behalf of Krishna I can accept. Sincere service to the Spiritual Master is service to the Su- preme Lord. As stated in the prayer, “Prasadad Bhagavat Prasadad’’. That means because Krishna accepts service through the via media of Spiritual Master, therefore pleasing the Spiritual Master is equal to pleasing the Supreme Lord. There are four Sampradayas from the beginning of the creation. One is called Brahma Sampradaya, and is coming down by disciplic succession from Brahma; an- other Sampradaya is coming down from Lakshmi, called Shree Sampradaya; an- other is coming down from the Kumaros, they are known as Nimbark Sampradaya; another Sampradaya is coming from Lord Shiva, Rudra Sampradaya or Vishnu Swami. These are four bonafide Sampra- dayas that are accepted by the bonafide spiritualists. The Impersonalist Sampra- daya is not original neither the Impersona- list Sampradaya or party can help us. At the present moment there are so many Sampradayas, but we have to test them about their method of disciplic under- standing. Anyway, all the four Sampra- dayas above mentioned, they are after worshipping the Supreme Lord Vishnu, in His different Expansions, and some of them are in favor of worshipping Radha Krishna. In the later age the Brahma Sam- pradaya was handed down though Madhya Acharya; in this Madhya Acharya disci- plic succession came Isvara Puri. This Is- vara Puri was accepted as Spiritual Master of Lord Chaitanya. Therefore, we being in disciplic succession of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, we are known as the Madya Sampradaya. And because Lord Chaita- nya appeared in Bengal, which country is called Gouda Dasha, our Sampradaya FEBRUARY, 1968 315 party is known as Madya Goudiya Sam- pradaya. But all these Sampradayas are non-different from one another because they believe and worship the Supreme Lord. Any other Sampradaya who are Im- personalist or voidist or non-devotee, they are rejected by us. My Guru Maharaj was in the 10th gen- eration from Lord Chaitanya. We are 1 1th from Lord Chaitanya. The disciplic suc- ession is as follows: 1. Sri Krishna, 2. Brahma, 3. Narada, 4. Vyasa, 5. Madhva, 6. Padmanabha, 7. Nrihari, 8. Madhava, 9. Akshobhya, 10. Jayatirtha, 11. Jnana- sindhu, 12. Purushottama, 13. Vidyanidhi, 14. Rajendra, 15. Jayadharma, 16. Purush- ottama, 17. Vyasatirtha, 18. Lakshmi- pati, 19. Madhavendra Puri, 20. Isvara Puri (Advaita, Nityananda) 21. Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, 22. (Swarupa, Sanatan) Rupa, 23.(Jiva) Raghunath, 24. Krishna dasa, 25. Narottama, 26. Viswanatha, 27. (Baladeva) Jaganatha, 28. (Bhaktivinode) Gourakishore, 29. Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati, Sri Barshabhanavidayitadas, 30. Sri Srimad Bhaktivedanta. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Upendra, Please distribute other devotees letter enclosed herewith. ACB 68-2-19 Los Angeles 15th February, 1968 New York My Dear Sudarshana devi, Please accept my blessings. In reply to your letter, Jan. 31 1968, which I received just day before yesterday, I have accepted you as initiated student and your spiritual Name is Srimati Sudarshana devi. (One who looks forward on the Sudarsan wheel in the hand of Krishna) Please follow the regulations and chant 16 rounds daily at least without any of- fence. The list of offences, 10 kinds, are in my apartment in N.Y., and you ask your God-brother, Brahmananda, and he will supply you. Similarly, there is an- other list of the qualifications, as well as prayer for Spiritual Master, arealso there. Try tosecure them, and follow the regula- tions, and Krishna will help you in being elevated to higher and higher platforms of Krishna Consciousness. Thanking you very much. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-20 Los Angeles 15th February, 1968 New York My Dear Jadunandan das Brahmachary, Please accept my blessings. In reply to your letter of February 8, 1968, I thank you very much for it, and I have accepted you as my initiated student and your spiri- tual name is Sriman Jadunandan das Brahmachary. (Jadunandan is another name of Krishna) Please follow the regulations and chant 16 rounds daily, at least, without any of- fence. The list of offences, 10 kinds, are in my apartment in N.Y., and you ask your God-brother, Brahmananda, and he will supply you. Similarly, there is an- other list of the qualifications, as well as prayer for Spiritual Master, are also there. Try to secure them, and follow the regula- tions, and Krishna will help you in being elevated to higher and higher platforms of Krishna Consciousness. Thanking you very much. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 316 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-2-21 Los Angeles 15th February, 1968 My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter with designs of the throne. I am so glad that somebody has donated sufficient funds to construct the throne. Your design appears to be very nice, nicer than the design which I gave you drawn by Goursundar; but the former design was made with the proposal of cov- ering it with silver foils. To make it less expensive because the whole thing has to be covered by silver foils, I made it plainer. But your design is not so plain, it is gorgeous and if it is covered with silver foils it will be still more gorgeous. My point is: with this design or former de- sign, it does not matter, but it must be cov- ered, major portion, with silver foil. I am glad to hear that someone is going to do- nate sufficiently for this throne. Now you make your own choice which one will be suitable for our purpose. If the friend who wants to donate is willing to pay any amount of expenditure, then your design is very nice. You do it nicely for the ser- vice of Sri Sri Radha Krishna. But the sil- ver covering must be very prominent. I am returning the design as requested. Iam feeling well so don’t worry about me. As soon as you like me to go to San Fran- cisco, I am ready to go. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-22 Los Angeles 15th February, 1968 Allston, Massachusetts My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letters of Feb. 8, and Feb. 10. As always, I am so happy to hear about all the nice artwork you and your associates are doing. Re- garding your questions: The airplanes in Vaikuntha isn’t exactly like the aiplanes here, but it is something like the swan while flying, in shape, with a throne on the back, bedecked all over with golden filigree works, and looking very brilliant. It isn’t a bird flying, but the shape of the plane is like the swan bird flying. The demons could assume any gigan- tic shape they liked. They can play jug- glery; they are not ordinary human beings. You must know that a person with whom God had to fight is not an ordinary person. He could play almost equally with the Lord, but nobody can excel the Lord. Therefore, he was killed. To expand and to reduce the body is sometimes per- formed by a successful yogi. Yes, Viragha is very beautiful. Gener- ally, the Boar picture is depicted as half human, and half boar, but in Bhagwatam it is stated that full boar. You can make the first 2 legs as 2 hands, and the rear legs and legs, and make it as beautiful as possi- ble. Printing in India is out of the question now, because we have no sufficient fund. If something can be done with coopera- tion of Mr. Kallman, that is the next possi- bility. Better to consult Brahmananda in this connection. I am so please that you are guiding your God-sisters in N.Y. so nicely. But some of your God-sisters in San Francisco want you for 2 months. I have asked them to write you directly and if you can spare yourself for that time to organize a Brahmacharini ashram in S.F., please think it over. I have seen the article put in Boston newspaper about your activities there, and I am so glad to see your picture, just a Brahmacharini. The picture was very attractive for me, and I pray Krishna that you may make further progress in FEBRUARY, 1968 317 Krishna Consciousness so your spiritual beauty may come out more and more. The article was very nice. And also, I am thinking if you go to S.F., then work in Boston may suffer for want of you. Be- cause you are only 3 in Boston, and under these circumstances I cannot advise you directly to go to S.F., but if you think it is possible then try to help them. My present plan is that I will have to go to S.F. most probably to open a center in Berkley, during the Advent Ceremony of Lord Chaitanya, and from S.F., I may go to N.Y. So if you come to S.F., at least for a few days then, we can meet there and see how the Brahmacharini ashram is going there. Regarding offering food: The custom is to offer the foodstuff first to the Spiri- tual Master; we cannot do anything di- rectly. The Spiritual Master accepts the offering on behalf of his disciple, and of- fers the same to Krishna. After Krishna’s eating, the Spiritual Master eats it, and then the devotees take it as Mahaprasad. This is the system. Everything is offered to the Spiritual Master first, with the prayer ‘Nama Om Vishnupadaya. . . .” If, in the cooking process, food falls on the floor, if it is raw and can be washed nicely, then it can be offered. But if it is prepared and cannot be washed, then it is not to be offered, but can be eaten rather than be wasted. Brijbasi Co. are not ordinary business- men, they are devotees. So their pictures aren’t poisonous. Even it is poison, be- cause we are paying for their goods, therefore if poison is there, it becomes in- effective. Just like we are buying so many things at the market which are not fit for offering to Krishna, but because we are purchasing them, we can offer. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Feb. 10, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. The article was very nice, as I have written in Jadurany’s letter. And the radio show man is very intelligent, this is good publicity for our movement. And I am happy to hear you are holding Kirtan at so many places, and spreading Lord Chaita- nya’s message. I was very pleased to hear your state- ment about the tape, and about Brahma- chary life. Yes, the anchor, as in the sketch-story “The Grand Procession” is sexlife, and we are 50% liberated if we can make it nil. There isn’t any difference between chanting the Holy Name at the same time washing the dishes of the Tem- ple. So do not be worried when you are at- tracted for doing other work in the Temple. There is variegatedness in tran- scendental activities. Sometimes we like to chant, sometimes we like to wash dishes. There is no difference on the Ab- solute plane. I am sure Krishna will give you all intelligence to work transcenden- tally. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please inform Pradyumna that I shall reply his letter later on. Ihave received the things wanted by him. 68-2-23 Los Angeles 15th February, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your last letter dated Feb. 12, 1968, along with Dai Nippon Printing Company’s material. Formerly, when Dwarkadish was in correspondence with this company, they quoted price for 400 pages of Srimad Bhagwatam of the same 318 Letters from Srila Prabhupada size of binding at $5,400 for 5000 copies. So far I remember, I requested Dwarkad- ish to make it $5000 and I do not know what is the fate of the correspondence. But I remember that they quoted $5,4000 for 5000 copies. Now even the pages aren’t so many. The pages are only 230, still they are quoting $6,390 for 5000 cop- ies. Best thing would have been to search out the correspondence with Dwarkadish. So far printing is concerned, 12/14 Be- mbo on the paper 70 Ib. is approved by me. Now you can search out the old corre- spondence with Dwarkadish if possible, and do the needful. Otherwise, as Mr. Kallman has said, you can find out some- body in New York. If it is published in N.Y. it is better, but I am sure no N.Y. man can give competitive price than Ja- pan. I leave the matter to your judgement, and do the needful. Shipping time isn’t very important, if you get competitive price, we should place the order to Japan. As requested by you, I am sending herewith the beads and respective letters of Jadunandan Brahmachary, and Su- darshana devi; which please deliver to them with your good wishes and hand over to them the requisite list of regula- tions, etc. Also, Bhaktijan is there in N.Y., he may be nicely treated as he has come back, so he will understand the phi- losophy nicely. I have asked him to chant 64 rounds instead of 16. Regarding apartments: we are Indians, especially mendicant, we can adjust things in any kind of place. But I shall stay in any place hell or heaven, if it is ap- proved by you. Of course, on behalf of Krishna I am accepting your sincere ser- vice, but on the whole, I am servant of the servant of Krishna. Therefore I may be in designation your Spiritual Master, but ac- tually I am servant of the servant of Krishna, and because you are all sincere servants of Krishna, I am your servant. I shall be glad to stay whereever yourself, Rayrama, and others like me to stay. In San Francisco, everyone is desiring Jadurany for at least two months for con- solidating a Brahmacharini ashram. If I ask her to come, she will surely come here, but I am seeking your opinion, if her coming here may hamper the cause there she is now conducting. In my opinion, if we could get 5000 copies of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya at $5000, that would have been a nice bar- gain. If possible try to contact Dwarkad- ish immediately, and see the whole correspondence, and do the needful. But do it as soon as possible. The sample of hardbound and the covering cloth, etc., are very nice. The paper is also nice, and the printing is also nice; now if they come down to the nice price, it all will be nice. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for sending me the latest copy of Back to Godhead, which is so nicely decorated and painted. My special thanks are due to Jai Govinda who—who has so nicely sketched the story of the Grand Procession. I think in each and every issue a similar story-sketch may be printed, and it will be very interesting for the American reading public. It is inter- esting and thought provoking. Therefore, the more we print such sketch-stories, it will be greater in appreciation. You wanted to write me after sending the picture at the following address.: Shy- amsundar Mullick, 155/A Mahatma Gan- dhi Road, Calcutta-7, India,. Hope you are well. Please let me know if you have sent the picture in India as above men- tioned. Your ever well-wisher FEBRUARY, 1968 319 68-2-24 Los Angeles 16th February, 1968 My Dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter, and have noted the contents. I have already sent copy of the instructions for celebrat- ing my Guru Maharaj’s Advent Day, to Shyamsundar, as of yesterday, and you can read it to all the devotees at Ishtagoshe. Similarly, Malati has just recently asked about the 8 witnesses, and I have replied in her letter the question you may ask of Rayrama. I have written Upendra recently regarding the Sampradaya, and disciplic succession, and you may have gotten the information from him by now. After killing the demon Hiranyaka- sipu, the Lord Nristnghadeva was pacified by Prahlad Maharaj, who offered prayers in hymns which are very instructive. I shall be preparing these for you in my Sri- mad Bhagwatam. I will simply cite one nice verse: ‘‘Oh Benevolent Lord! Friend of the fallen! Oh the Tender-Hearted! bound by my own Karma I have been thrown into the midst of these demons who are destroying every thing of Your devotees! I am therefore extremely averse to the unbearable and terrible miseries of this cycle of birth and death in this world devoid of service and devotion to You. Oh Lord! When will You be pleased with me and call me to the shelter of Your Lotus Feet which are soothing like the smiling beams of ten million autumnal moons?” Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-25 Los Angeles 17th February, 1968 New York My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Feb. 8, 1968, and have noted the contents. I thank you very much for your sincere appreciation, and for your feelings of imperfectness. The more you think as imperfect, the more you make actual progress in Krishna Consciousness. This hankering after per- fection is seen in even the most perfect devotees. So we should never think of be- ing perfect at any stage. Actually, Krishna Consciousness is unlimited, because Krishna is unlimited, so we do not know at which point the perfection is there. Even Krishna Himself thinks that he is imper- fect to understand Radharani’s feelings of devotion; and to understand the devo- tional feelings of Radharani, He became Lord Chaitanya, to worship Krishna in the feelings of Radharani. So transcendental activities are so nice that it is all perfec- tion, and still there is no perfect satisfac- tion. That is the duty of spiritual life. Please stick to your principles as you are now doing and serve Krishna to your best capcacity, and Krishna will give you all protection undoubtedly. I am very happy to hear you are mak- ing nice arrangements for the Kirtan Party; I am anxious to see the idea take shape. Yes, the more you develop the atti- tude for service sincerely, the more op- portunities Krishna will give you to serve Him, in so many varieties of ways. And I am so happy to hear that you are finding strength to be determined to spread Krishna Consciousness all over the world; my Guru Maharaj wanted like that, especially the Western world, and my only request is that you all sincere boys and girls, to spread this Krishna Con- sciousness to every home, to every village and town, and to take this mission very se- riously. Please convey my blessings to your good wife. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. organisation of the Kirtan party for 320 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda world tour should now be given our first consideration. ACB 68-2-26 Los Angeles 17th February, 1968 My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived the transliteration of Brahma Samhita and also your letter of February 14, 1968. I am very much pleased with the nice job you have done. Presently I am using one copy of the Gita Press version of Srimad Bhagwatam in connection with my translating work, but in due course I may send it to you and you may transliterate the second and third cantoes at that time. So if you can do this transliteration we have enough assign- ments. You may work together with Gour- sundar in this connection. Regarding the book list: ‘Lord Gauranga” by S.K. Ghose and Veder Pan- chaya by Bon Maharaj are useless and you may not get them. The other books and the Gaudiya paper are acceptable. If you have free use of Xerox machine you may make copies, of some of the smaller works.. Regarding Bhakti Puri, Tirtha Maharaj, they are my God-brothers and should be shown respect. But you should not have any intimate connection with them as they have gone against the orders of my Guru Maharaj. I am glad to know that you are working hard to expand the Krishna Conscious- ness propaganda in Boston. I may say that this practical devotion is the secret to un- derstanding the Shastras. My Guru Ma- haraj used to say that for one who is not engaged in devotional service, reading all the books is simply like licking the outside of the honey jar. One who thinks the books is the thing is content in this way. But we should learn the secret to open the jar and taste the honey. In this way, if we can simply understand one book, or one sloka, the perfection is there. Lord Chaitanya warned about reading too many books, although I see in America this is very popular to get volumes and volumes of books and not understand one. Anyway by sincerely working by carefully execut- ing the instructions of the Spiritual Mas- ter, you will be all successful by Krishna’s Grace. I am always praying to Krishna for your advancement in Krishna Conscious- ness, all of you, sincere souls. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-2-27 Los Angeles 17th February, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. Herewith please find one letter from Achyutananda Brahmachary, and read it carefully, and then return it back to me for filing. The boy is very much enthusiastic in opening an American House in India (Kanpur), and it is to be understood that the house is very much comfortable and commodious. We have got another opportunity ofco- operating with Pandit Hitsaran Sharma, who is anxious to publish ISKCON maga- zine from India, and he is prepared to take the charge of it, and he wants our full co- operation. The copy of the letter received from him is also enclosed herewith, please find it. Now, I am anxious to know if you have delivered the manuscript of the Bhagavad Gita to MacMillan and Co., and whether you are now prepared to go to India. Achyutananda is very anxious to see you there and as you have already written him that you are going there. He wants to see you there by the middle of March. I do not know whether you are prepared to go there by that time. But one thing is very FEBRUARY, 1968 321 encouraging, that if you go there and man- age the publication, both Srimad Bhagwa- tam and Back To Godhead, print in cooperation with the proprietor of the Radha Press, it will be a very nice pro- posal. Printing in India is undoubtedly cheaper than in any other place, because the labor is very cheap there. Gargamuni is very much hopeful for selling Back To Godheads, even up to 10,000 copies. If all these proposals are actually practical, then it is lucrative to give it a try. If it is sucessful then my program will be 6 months in India and 6 months in this coun- try; and if things go on nicely, we can pre- pare some preachers so that even if I retire, the missionary work will go on un- der the able guidance of some of my se- lected disciples, like you, Brahmananda, Rupanuga, etc. Please reply this letter by return of post. I am anxious to know whether the manuscript is delivered to MacMillan. Also, please send a copy of the new Back To Godhead to this address as soon as possible: Secretary; Shri Radha Madhava Seva Sansthan; Shri Krishna—Niketan; Rly. Circular Road; Gorakhpur; U.P., India. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure—2. 68-2-28 Los Angeles 18th February, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Feb. 15, 1968, and noted the contents. I have already instructed Jayananada not to oc- cupy the storefront in Berkeley if it is too much risky. We should not accept any- thing very risky because that will hamper us in our program of Krishna Conscious- ness. Our motto is simple living, high thinking; we should think of Krishna without being hampered by material dis- turbances, as far as possible. So too much risky thing is not for us. If something comes very easily for our manipulation we welcome it. You have got already a center in S.F. so it is better to make propa- ganda so that people may come there in throngs. Gargamuni can make this propa- ganda by sellng Back To Godheads. Per- sonally, I shall advise you to try for our own temple, either in S.F. or in L.A. You wanted me to talk to some persons who are very rich and I am ready to go with you. In the meantime, as you want to do business and so also Gargamuni, now you can order any amount of Indian goods from Brindaban De, my younger son. And he has agreed to execute all your or- ders on 10% commission. I think you should agree to allow him that commis- sion, because unless he gets some profit for his labor, it does not become very en- couraging. So if you agree to give him 10%, he will supply all your goods and you may pay on presentation of the docu- ments. If you confirm this then I shall write to him again and both you and Gargamuni can send your order to him without any difficulty. The dictaphone affair is still lying pen- dant. Most probably Rayrama is going to India by the middle of March so I would like that he may take with him the dicta- phone suitable for Indian electricity. This will save me too much burden when I may return. If the arrangement is made that the N.Y. office of the firm with whom you are negotiating may deliver the dictaphone suitable for India to Rayrama, it will be very nice. Please think over this. Hope you are well, also your good wife. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure -1 322 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda 68-2-29 Los Angeles 18th February, 1968 My dear Upendra and Krishna Das, Please accept my blessings. If our Berkeley centre is not going to be fruitful just now, I think you may prepare to go to India where Achyutananda has opened a centre at Kanpuy. Gurudas is in contact with Achyutananda and you can talk with Gurudas. Our aim of starting a centre in India is to attract Indian youngsters by American devotees. Combined together we shall be able to make a wide circula- tion of the Krishna Consciousness move- ment. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-30 Los Angeles 19th February, 1968 New York My Dear Balai dasi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for the Ishtagoshe notes, and also your nice letter of Feb. 14, 1968. I have read them over, and the question which was asked about why people did not see Krishna as blue, question no. 5; you can’t see Krishna with material eyes. Please continue sending the notes from the meetings; I am very pleased to read how my students are relishing the discus- sions of Krishna and His Associates. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, P.S. All press cuttings and important publications from society specially B.T.G., all should regularly be sent to the following address. He will utilise them for supporting our Indian center. Please do the needful in this connection. Address where the above materials should be sent by First class mail educa- tional. (Sri Hitsaran Sharma, Radha Press, Gandhi Nagar, Delhi 31. India.) 68-2-31 Los Angeles 20th February, 1968 My dear Krishna devi, Iam very glad to receive your letter of 2/15/68. Please accept my blessings. I am expecting you every moment. Krishna is very kind. He does not let go anyone who might have done a little bit of service. So how can He allow you to forget Krishna. You may be dragged by Maya for the time being but by Krishna’s Grace that will have only temporary reaction; I am very glad that you are doing so much for deco- rating Krishna’s temple. I thank Danny also because he is helping you in the ser- vice of Krishna. So I am also with you and I shall do my best to help you in advancing your Krishna Consciousness. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-32 Los Angeles 20th February, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter dated Feb. 15, 1968. I can appreciate your advance- ment in Krishna Consciousness by the sentiments expressed by you. As I have re- peatedly said, that Krishna Conscious- ness is developed by following two parallel lines, means service of Krishna, and service of the Spiritual Master. This is the secret of success. The Spiritual Mas- ter must be bonafide, that is, he must come down from a bonafide Spiritual FEBRUARY, 1968 323 Master and must act according to the di- rections of the Spiritual Master, and by doing so, he gives proper directions about Krishna and the devotees serve Krishna under the direction of such Spiritual Mas- ter, and Krishna accepts service, and in this way the whole thing becomes beauti- ful and successful. I am very much pleased that you are following the same principle and there is no doubt that you will develope more and more in the ser- vice of Krishna. I always pray to Krishna for your advancement, and what I can do more than this. Regarding printing of the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya: Dai Nippon is a very big concern. In my last letter I requested you to refer to their past correspondence and in which you will find they quoted $5,400 for 5000 copies of 400 pages. Now, this time the pages are only 230, and why they should charge so much as $6,400. There must be that there is something missing. So if you consult them, or ask them to consult their past files, they may recon- sider. My idea is that their being a big company, their workmanship will be surely nicer than any smaller company. Of course, the last issue of Back To God- head was very nicely done, there is not doubt about it, but if the Dai Nippon Co. comes to $5000, that will be very nice. Best thing will be therefore to consult the past correspondence, and if you find same thing as I said, $5,400 for 5000 copies of 400 pages, other details being the same, then they can come down to their original price. But if you do not find such opportu- nity, then you can hand it over to the Printer Mr. Kallman has suggested. Regarding Srimad Bhagwatam print- ing: It has already begun in India, and they hav sent a specimen which I am en- closing herewith, please find. The $5000 donated to me by Jayananda will be used for printing in India. So I don’t think in America anyone can print cheaper than India. But if you think Bhagwatam can be printed in America, which I have tried for the past 2 or 3 years and did not get oppor- tunity, so I decided to print in India, so it is already begun. I thank you very much, now you are very serious about printing of books, so Krishna willing, we shall have this year at least 5 to 6 books printed. One volume Bhagavad Gita, 3 vol. Srimad Bhagwatam, 1 vol. TLC, 1 vol. Transcen- dental Meditation, and maybe 1 vol. of Brahma Samhita. Please do not forget to add Thakur Bhaktivinode’s writing, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, in the TLC. I think you are already in knowledge of this proposal. The Bhagwatam printing which is tak- ing place in India will be almost of the same style and quality of the 3 volumes al- ready printed. My special mission is to complete the Srimad Bhagwatam in 60 volumes, so the most important thing on the part of the International Society is to organize the sales propaganda, of all the books that you are publishing. If there is less sales propaganda then the outlet. of the books will be bottlenecked, and smooth printing work will stop. You have not only to print, but you have to sell them. So please consult Mr. Kallman how to do it. In your previous letter it was in- tormed that some firm, European, is go- ing to take the sole selling responsibility for Europe. What happened to that pro- posal? We must find out some selling agent. Regarding Krishna’s being very kind upon us, should be on the principle as Ar- juna followed: the principle is, that Krishna was Arjuna’s most intimate friend. He could have brought victory to Arjuna, without any endeavor by Arjuna; neither was that principle advised by Krishna, neither Arjuna followed it. As a military man, Arjuna fought to his best, but the victory was brought him by Krishna. Similarly, we should try our best 324 Letters from Srila Prabhupada to our best capacity, and victory will come from Krishna. We should never sit idly and ask Krishna to do everything. That is the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita. It is clearly said in the Gita: ‘““Yuddhasya ca mam anusmara.” So ordinarily, we have to try our best to our best capacity to achieve something, and by Krishna’s Grace, all of a sudden we shall see every- thing is there. This sort of help from Krishna is transcendental happiness. Our principle should be therefore, that we should work for the mission with great en- thusiasm, with certainty for its success, and patiently follow the regulative princi- ples, and associate ourselves with pure devotees, and work being completely in Krishna Consciousness, that will make us happy and successful. I am glad that Krishna has sent $500 when you needed them very badly. It is all Krishna’s Grace. Please take care of the boy very nicely. I have received one letter from him, and I am enclosing a personal thanks for the boy. Even Krishna is pre- pared to give us more, we should not ac- cept anything from Him for our sense gratification; if anything is offered by Him, we should accept gladly for His ser- vice only; for our sense gratification or personal benefit, we shall not ever ask any favor from Krishna, although He is always willing to deliver such favor to anyone amongst His devotees. I am glad that the devotee has joined us who is a sculptor. I am trying to carve one Radha Krishna Sri Murti in wood, done by Goursundar, but Goursundar is not a sculptor, still he is trying to do it. But if this boy is actually a sculptor, he may immediately begin to carve one Radha Krishna Sri Murti in wood, 24” high. In San Francisco, Shy- amsundar is preparing a nice throne, and in future we have to install Radha Krishna Sri Murti in all our temples. Regarding cracking of Jaggannatha, whether it is be- ing repaired or replaced, I shall be glad to know. The faith increases in Krishna Con- sciousness by our voluntary increase of serving Krishna. Serving Krishna is un- limited and he can accept our unlimited service, and award us unlimited transcen- dental pleasure in the unlimited service of the Lord. That is the meaning of unlim- ited. Yes, you can arrange as many lectures as is possible. The buzzing sound and the headaches-has nothing to do with my ac- tivities or Krishna Consciousness, it is no more so acute and I have consulted my In- dian physician, and it is no more such puzzling. I shall consult an American physician here also probably.* Yes, ask Bob to arrange lectures at a University and I shall deliver. Yes, we can go to Bos- ton as you suggested and also to talk at the Vermont University. Ask Mr. Kallman to give us his nice car. Hope you are feeling well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami * I have done it just this afternoon. His opinion is there is nothing wrong in my general health. He will test my sugar blood tomorrow. 68-2-33 Los Angeles 20th February, 1968 My Dear Robert, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 15, 1968, and you have done very good by staying in N.Y. under the guidance of Sri- man Brahmananda. In your last letter you proposed to come here, but Krishna has given you good counsel that instead of coming here, you have stopped at N.Y. and expended the passage money for tem- ple expenditures. It is very good. It is as good to see Brahmananda because he is my representative, and he can inform you FEBRUARY, 1968 325 everything which I could have done by meeting you. Anyway, please act under the guidance of Brahmananda, so long I am not able to see you, and probably it will be possible to see you in the month of April next, when I am going to N.Y. I thank you once more for your service spirit to Lord Krishna, and I am sure He will bestow upon you more and more ser- vice spirit. So far school is concerned, we know that modern education in schools and col- leges is not very much helpful in advance- ment of Krishna Consciousness, but still we have to take advantage of such institu- tions in absence of any other good organi- zation. But I shall advise you that by leaving your school, you have got im- mense books and literatures for studying, so you should form the habit of studying and understanding the philosophy very nicely and when there is difficulty in un- derstanding, Brahmananda or Rayrama, or myself, will help you in all respects. School may be bad, but studying is not bad, it is very good. So we should not give up the habit of studying, especially Bha- gavad Gita, Srimad Bhagwatam, and Brahma Samhita. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-34 Los Angeles 21st February, 1968 David Exley Chief NGO Section External Affairs Office UN Dear Mr. David J. Exley, With futher reference to your letter dated Feb. 16, 1968, I may inform you that this Krishna Consciousness move- ment is not a recent movement, started a few months or a few years ago, but this movement has been existing for a very long time, dating back to the Vedic Age. Without tracing the history of this move- ment, we can safely say that at least 5000 years ago, this movement was started from the Battlefield of Kurukshetra. Later on, it was organizedly recorded in the great voluminous literature, known world over as the Srimad Bhagwatam, and the very famous Bhagavad Gita, by the origi- nal author of Vedic literature, Sri Krishna Dwaipayana Vyas. Since that time, this movement is current in India, supported by great Acharyas like Ramanuja, Madhya, and Vishnu Swami, and Nim- barka. Later on, about 500 years ago, it received great impetus from Lord Chaita- nya, and since that time, there are millions of supporters for Krishna Consciousness in India. This Krishna Consciousness movement is still supported by confer- ences, seminars, and so forth, in several parts of India. Recently, we have started this movement in America, making New York as our center, with a view that we shall be able to attract the attention of the United Nations for spreading this impor- tant movement throughout the whole world for actual benefit of the human race. It is not a sectarian movement meant for a certain class of men, but it is a neces- sary movement for all humanity irrespec- tive of caste, creed, or color. So far I am concerned, I am a humble disciple of His Divine Grace, Om Vishnupad Sri Srimad Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswami Maharaj, who was the original pioneer of spreading this movement in the Western world. During his lifetime, up to 1936, he started 64 main centers all over the world, including centers in Berlin, Germany, and London, England. His Divine Grace en- trusted me to spread this movement in the Western countries, and since 1965, I am 326 Letters from Srila Prabhupada trying in my humble way to spread this movement in this part of the world. I am recognized Acharya of this movement, as will be evidenced by the enclosed copies of different branches of the Gaudiya Math institutions. The certificates enclosed herewith are signed by my God-brothers, who have now different branches of the same Gaudiya Math Institution which I am now spreading in this country. So, originating from Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, there are thousands of centers all over In- dia for spreading this Krishna Conscious- ness philosophy. There will be a very big conference at Mayapur, at which thou- sands of people will attend, celebrating the Advent Day of Chaitanya Maha- prabhu, in March. So, by the United Nations, NGO Section, we shall ate information about the United nations to millions of __._ in India and all over the Eastern world. We spread ious to sisseminate the ideas of Krishna Consciousness ion with the United Nations, because it will be a great wards bringing peace to the world. There are always two classes of men on the surface pious and impious. In Vedic language they are known as Asuras and Deveas. When there is an ex- cessive number of Asuras the = disturbances of tthe peace of the world is very _______ when there is an excessive number of the devas, prosper- ity, and tranquility on the surface of the any doubt. The Devas and the Asuras are created mentality of Krishna Consciousness, and ignorance. I do not know what further pertinent material need of concerning our organization’s qualification ——— — en- tered upon the list of Non-Governmental Organizations ————— simply assure you that the enclosed copies of certifica- tion support the fact that I am recognized Acharya of al Movement. The people in this part of the world understanding the importance of this most needed present day. I may in- form you in this connection court case, in which one of my students was involved us. Before joining our Society, he was condemned imprisonment. Fortunately enough, the boy was released as the court judge learned that he is affiliated ution. the judge remarked, ‘“‘This boy be- longs to religious order that is doing much for the community against drug addiction, and for healthy life.” This is only one instance among many in which in contact with our philosophy build nice character the basic principles of sinful activities. If for spreading this movement, and for understanding ——— — of this philosophy by the United Nations, we shall _______ render the greatest service tothe humanity in the establish- ing peace and prosperity. The process is very simple, and is accept- able by any member of irre- spective of caste, creed, or color, or nation Gaudiya Math Institu- tions, each of them having ____ are our sister establishments, and we can dis- seminate amounts of informa- tion through them to vast number in India, and throughout the East. I hope you will do your best to enlist our the Non-Governmental Or- ganizations, and in this render- ing the greatest service to the United Nations. Thanking you once more for your in- terest in —— Krishna Consciousness movement. Sincerely yours, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami FEBRUARY, 1968 327 68-2-35 Los Angeles 21st February, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter Feb. 17, 1968, and have noted the contents. The sentence in question is, aS you stated, Swayam Bhuva Manu and his wife, Satarupa (not Satsvarupa). The reaction that the hunter would have suffered, had he not received the Mercy of Narada Muni, is hellish life. There are different kinds of hellish life for different kinds of sinful activities. So, one has to undergo such punishment if he doesn’t take to Krishna Consciousness. It is only the devotee who can save the living entities from falling down into hellish conditions, and by the Grace of Narada Muni, the hunter was awakened to Krishna Consciousness and was saved. Yes, the general principle is that one is sent to the particular type of hell, and when he is practised to suffer the hellish condition, he is given a similar body as re-, action. These hell planets are described in the Sth Canto of Srimad Bhagwatam; there is no question of imagination. One who is particular about this may read the different descriptions of hells in the Sth Canto of Srimad Bhagwatam. Yes, it is as you say, therefore we should keep always ourselves engaged so there is no possibility of falling down. So far mistakes done imperceptively by such devotee engaged in Krishna Conscious- ness activites, ‘“Swapada Mulam Bhagwatam Priasya’’, they are excused by the Lord as it is stated in Srimad Bhagwa- tam. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated Feb. 14, 1968, and I am happy to hear all the good news from our fine art department. I think I have already given you instructions in this regard. In my opinion your guiding the girls working under you for painting is very important, and if this business doesn’t suffer, you can think of going to S.F. for organizing the ashram. If all the Brahmacharini’s gather together and work under your guidance, at any place, I will prefer that proposition. If the ma- jority of the girls are in N.Y., why not have the other Brahmacharini’s from S.F. go there and work under your direction, either in N.Y. or in Boston, as it is best. Hope you are well. For the time being drop the idea of going to S.F. better con- centrate your energy in organising the art- ist girls under your care. The Brahmacharinis at S.F. may be called at N.Y. or Boston. Your ever well-wisher, Satsvarupa, please note: N.B. Please send all the propaganda ma- terial so far published in rrlation to your center, to the following address: Sri Hit Sharan Sharma Radha Press 993/3 Main Road Gandhi Nagar Delhi-31, INDIA 68-2-36 Los Angeles 22nd February, 1968 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 19, 1968. I am glad to understand that every- thing is very nice in New York Temple, and Krishna is attracting many new devo- tees lately. The more you sincerely serve 328 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Krishna, the more He will send you simi- lar devotees to assist you. Regarding the NGO section of the United Nations, Iam enclosing herewith a statement addressing Mr. David J. Exley, explaining the very importance of our movement. You can inform him that the Gaudiya Math Institutions in India and in England, are also part of this Institution. And as my God-brothers have established in different parts of India and the East hundreds of institutions for this purpose, I ‘am also trying to open such similar cen- ters in the Western countries. Our activi- ties are related with Gaudiya Math on the basis of Krishna Consciousness. So through all these Maths and other various institutions, we can disseminate all infor- mation about the U.N. in various parts of the world. Both of you shall go and try to con- vince this gentleman about the impor- tance of our movement, and the rest will depend on Krishna as He desires. We shall try our best and the ultimate result may be dependent on the dispensations of Krishna. These institutions are related with us and each of the Maths are the headquarters for hundreds of branches, and wecan disseminate much information about the U.N. through them. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Because they are so desperate for peace in the East, it may be a good idea to expand on the point that we have very widespread influence all over the Eastern world, and we can spread much good peace-propaganda for the U.N. there. P.S. I am enclosing herewith some of the certificates of Godbrothers in Goudiy- amath institutions. I think in my apart- ment there are photostate copies of them. If they are there please submit those pho- tostate copies them, the typed ones. Also please let me know if Brahmananda has received shipping documents from the United Shipping Corporation of Calcutta. Also from S. S. Brijbasi Co. 68-2-37 Los Angeles 24th February, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Feb. 22, 1968 with enclosures. I am writing letter to Sri Hrishikesh Brahmachary giving him in- structions. You also write them to work for the Society in cooperation with Achy- utananda without wasting time in sight seeing. Regarding Dictaphone, Aniruddha is doing something. Iam now scheduled to goto S. F. by the 10th March 1968. Why not come here a few days earlier try to see some million- aires in connection with our Society’s cause. How Janiki is doing. My blessings for her. Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-38 Los Angeles. 24th February, 1968 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. Your letter dated Feb. 21st, duly in hand, both your- self and Brahmananda are to be thanked on behalf of Lord Krishna for your tireless endeavor to get the manuscript of Bha- gavad Gita ready and for this grand work Krishna will certainly bestow His bless- ings upon you both. I thank you very much that you are taking care of Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings and get it ready for publishing as soon as possible. Regarding FEBRUARY, 1968 329 India, I have recieved letter from Achy- utananda yesterday which is not very en- couraging. The man who was negotiating for a nice house appears to be a con man. So, Ihave advised him not to open a center at Kanpur at present. So, you may not be hasty immediately for starting to India. In the meantime, I am negotiating also with Hitsaranji. He is a little busy now a days on account of two marriage ceremonies. His boss is a big industrialist and he is go- ing to get his son and grandson married very recently. He is writting a letter that he is going to write me details after he is free from the responsibility of the mar- riage. Regarding buying a small printing shop, I am not very much optimistic. If you can organize a regular press for print- ing all our magazines and books and en- gage all our boys and girls in the press work that will be nice proposal, but if you purchase a small printing work where I understand even Back to Godhead cannot be published, what is the use of that press. Better we are negotiating with Hitsaranji and if we are able to open a nice center in India we shall purchase some machine from America and start a press there. In India the labor is cheaper extensively than in America. My idea is that if we are able to have a nice branch in India we can do the printing works nicely under your su- pervision. But, if you can start a fullfledged press in N.Y. that will be still more better. A full-fledged press means we must have two typographic machines at least and engage some of the girls for composition and the boys may be engaged in printing and machine manipulating. That will be a great success. If Mr. Kallman purchases a big machine for printing our books, then it will be very much helpful. I cannot advise you to pur- Chase a small printing press because that will not help us. The same energy can be transfered to India when we are in possis- Sion of a bigger house. There is every pos- sibility of Sharma’s help in our publishing power, but that is not yet settled. As soon as I hear from him favorably I shall ask you to make direct correspondence with him. I am just waiting his favorable next reply. I am enclosing herewith one copy of the letter recieved from United Shipping Corp. of Calcutta in respect of our goods shipped via s.s. “Flying Enterprise”. The ship is expected to arrive by this time in N.Y. port so necessary action should im- mediately be taken. At last I beg to inform you that unless you receive definite letter from Achyutananda you may not be in hurry to go to India takin so much risk. Hope youare well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 68-2-39 Los Angeles 24th February, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your latest letter, and I am so glad to learn that you are mak- ing nice arrangements formy lecturing in different places, and I expect to return in San Francisco by the tenth of March, and wish to execute all programs within 20-30 days from the date of my arrival before starting for New York. I shall be very glad to initiate girl friend if you recommend her actual mental condition. We should not initiate anyone who is not willing to follow our regulations. In the meantime let her attend our classes and join the Samkirtan program regularly. I am so pleased to learn that you are by the Grace of Krishna improving day by day in the 330 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda matter of Krishna Conciousness. Thank you very much for your sincere service. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-40 24th February, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Chitananda, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Feb. 20, and I have noted. the contents. You can ar- range to supply prasadam only to our dev- otees. We are not in a position financially to distribute foodstuff for the poor class of men. Such men may take shelter of some charitable institution. At the present mo- ment, we are not in a position to make charities but for the devotees we can sacri- fice anything. So you can stop preparing prasadam for persons who are not willing to work neither to pay. Regarding your go- ing to India, that is already in my pro- gram. Please save some money, not only for your passage but also for my passage. I am coming back to San Francisco by the 10th of March. When we meet we shall talk more of our Indian program. I think it is Krishna’s desire that you should. come to India with me and help in establishing a nice Indian center there. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-41 Los Angeles 24th February, 1968 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 19 Feb. 1968, and am so glad to learn that you have delivered the manuscript of Bha- gavad Gita to McMillan & Co. on the date of my Guru Maharaj’s birthday ceremony. The questionnaires which you have sent me I am answering them on separate typed paper and both the questions and answers are enclosed herewith. Please find and do the needful. I have also re- ceived the letters from Mario Windisch. This gentleman appears to be a disciple of my German god-brother Sadananda Swami. He appears to be very much inter- ested in our movement and very shortly he is visiting Montreal. Perhaps I may meet him in June when I shall go there and there is every possiblity of opening two centers. One in Sweden and another in Austria. Regarding glossy photo, I am writing to Guru das but I think Rayarama has got many specimens of my photograph. If you so desire, you can select one of them. Iam also writing to Gurudas in this connec- tion. I understand that you have ordered some books from Gaudiya Math and Mr. Kalman is cooperating. Regarding printing in India, I have al- ready sent you a specimen copy of print- ing which is being done in India, and if so desired, such printing work can be done in India without difficulty. But, if Dai Nippon Co. agrees to your letter of which you have sent me the copy then you can hand over the manuscript to them as early as possible. Regarding the purchase of press, I do not know what is the condition of the press but I want a full complete press where all kinds of books can be printed. If our men can take charge of a nice press either in New York or. in India, that will be an ideal proposition, but the press which you propose to purchase is not equipped for printing our books. If Mr. Kalman can equipe the press for printing our books, Bhagawatum esp., and other books also, and if our boys and girls can efficiently take up the printing work, that will be very nice. If we have got a press in our controle with full equipment it will be a great boon. If such manipulation FEBRUARY, 1968 331 —_— eee is not possible, then I wish to start a nice press in our Indian branch and get all our books and printing work done there. Fora nice arrangement of our Indian branch I am already in negotiation with Indian friends and I have proposed a big industri- alist to become the president of the Indian branch. In India labor is very cheap in comparison with your country, and espe- cially if we have our Indian branch in Vrindaban we can have labor there as our inmates of our institution. There are many Vaishnavas who will be ready to work without any renumeration simply in ex- change of their food and lodging. If we take American machines there and some of our American students to see the man- agement we can get there labor practically without any charges, but this idea can be done as said when we get a nice house to accommodate everything. The proposed branch in Kanpur is not yet settled. I have received one letter from Achyutananda which is not very much encouraging. Ray- arama may not start for India until there is nice arrangement for our Indian branch. His going away from New York at present will be a great hamper for BTG work. As intimated by you I am awaiting Rayara- ma’s letter in respect of the press and printing works in India. In the meantime, if you get confirmation from Dai Nippon agreeing to accept $5000 for TLC then you can get them printed without delay. Regarding the sketch cover of Bhagavad Gita, Govinda Dasi promises to send you by the next week. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-42 Los Angeles 24th February, 1968 My dear Guru das, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Feb. 21, 1968, and I am glad to learn that you had some discussions with some non- devotees. You can take it for granted that non-devotee class who is not in Krishna Conciousness as we are teaching are all great fools never mind how ever they may advertise themselves as meditators, yo- gis, philosophers, religionists, and so on. We are presenting a scientific program of God conciousness on the basis of the high- est authority, Bhagavad Gita. For a preacher there are four principles to be followed. One, he must be fully suren- dered to Krishna. Two, intimately in friendly relationship with devotees trying toelevate conditioned living entities to Krishna Conciousness and rejecting the non-devotee class. So if you find a non- devotee eager to listen submissively you can show your mercy to elevate him to Krishna Conciousness, but a non-devotee who is allready poisoned by the serpent of the demon class swami or yogi is very dif- ficult to be dealt with, so the best thing is to reject them and not waste time for their elevation; but a person who is willing to hear us submissively must be given chance to understand the philosophy of Krishna Conciousness. I am very much obliged to you for expressing your good sentiments on account of my humble ser- vice to you all. Your appreciation of my humble service is thankfully accepted. Regarding your going to India the house is not yet settled, so unless I defi- nitely hear from Achyutananda and others who are trying to have a nice house for our Indian branch you may not be very much anxious to go to India but I am sure we are going to have a nice house very soon which I shall let you know in due course. Otherwise, when I return, you, your wife, and some other brahmacharies shall go with me. I have received one letter from Brahmananda asking for a very nice glossy photo portrait of me so if you can 332 Letters from Srila Prabhupada arrange to send such a glossy photo it will be very nice. He asked to receive the photo as soon as possible. He has also ad- vised me to take help of a professional photographer if your assistance is not available immediately because I am away from your place. Please let me know if you can send such glossy photo from many negatives which you have got in your possession. I understand also that Rayarama has taken some of the negatives from you in New York so if you like you can adivse him to do the needful. Anyway the mater is urgent and I ask you to do the needful. I am expected to return to San Francisco by the 10th of March and I shall let you know the exact time and date later on. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-43 Los Angeles 25th February, 1968 Mario Windisch c/o Barbara Josephson Pyrolavagen 22/III Lidingo 3 Sweden My Dear. Mr. Windisch, I thank you very much for your letter dated Feb. 16, 1968, along with the enclo- sure of an older letter dated August 27, 1967. I am very sorry to learn that my dear brother Sadananda is seriously ill and the doctors have advised complete rest for him. He is my intimate friend and God-brother, so although I wanted to open correspondence with him, I voluntarily restrain myself from doing so, taking into consideration his present health. I pray to Krishna that he may recover very soon, so that we may not only open correspon- dence, but maybe I can see him person- ally. In Bombay sometimes we lived together and he used to treat my little sons very kindly. His heart is so soft, as soft as a good mother’s, and I always remember him and shall continue to do so. When you meet him next, kindly offer my respectful obeisances. And if there is any message for me, you can send me to my New York address. Just after sending you my letter some- times in the month of May, 1967, I also fell seriously ill by heart stroke, and my disciples here admitted me into the hospi- tal. I tried to recoup my health here but I could not do it properly, so I went back to India for some time, and I again have come back here last December. First I was in San Francisco, now I have come to Los Angeles, and from here I shall again go to San Francisco, from where I shall go to New York, then to Boston, maybe to Buf- falo, and then I shall reach Montreal by the month of June. If you come there by that time, it will be a great pleasure to meet you. Our Montreal Temple is situa- ted at the following address: 3720 Park Avenue, Montreal 18, Quebec, Canada. The boy in charge of the Temple is Janar- dan das. Adhikary, and he can be reached at the number 849-4334 (his home tele- phone). He is a very learned scholar and is highly advanced in Krishna Conscious- ness. I have good hope and faith in him, and when you meet him you will be very much pleased to talk with him. He is M.A. , and preparing for his Ph.D. , and is a good scholar in the French language also. Krishna Consciousness movement is the need for the Western countries at this time. The Westerners have sufficiently enjoyed their material achievements and they are now, especially the younger gen- eration, seeking for something spiritual. That is quite natural. In the Vedanta Sutra, it is stated as “Atha Atho Brahma Ji- jnasa.’ When a person finishes his mate- rial activities, naturally, he becomes FEBRUARY, 1968 333 interested to search after spiritual realiza- tion. That is natural consequence. A liv- ing entity is factually a spirit soul whose eternal position is knowledge and blissful- ness. Material knowledge, however ad- vanced it may be, cannot award bliss- fulness, which is the demand of the spirit soul. That blissfulness is being searched for by the materialist by advancement of material science, but they cannot find it in such a way. Therefore, the younger gen- eration, especially in the Western coun- tries, who have seen much of material amenities, are now feeling something greater than that. Unfortunately, they have not received it. There are some movements like the Beatles, or Hippies, among the younger generation, by realiz- ing the negation of matter. Their attempt is to forget matter by some hallucination or mental concoction, with the help of some deluding matter. So their attempt is nice, but there is no guide. Therefore, the younger generation in Europe and in America require an authorized guide for their present urge for spiritual realization. The answer is there in the Vedanta in the aphorism, “Janma Adyasya Yatah.” The answer is to search the Absolute Truth, Who is the Source of all emana- tion. This Absolute Source of emanation is explained preliminarily in the Bha- gavad Gita, and explicitly in the Srimad Bhagwatam. The Srimad Bhagwatam ex- plains the very beginning of its starting that the Absolute Truth is Sentient, and Person, and Independent. The Absolute Supreme Personality of Godhead is dis- tinct from all other living entities, in His being the Absolute Independent. There- fore, in the Vedas He is described as the Supreme Leader of all living entities. Soif we are very serious to understand Sequence of spiritual truth, then we must take advantage of Bhagavad Gita and Sri- mad sBhagwatam completely. Lord Chaitanya preached these two as essence of the Vedas. His very life and teachings are embodiment of the principles of Bha- gavad Gita and Srimad Bhagwatam. Our attempt to spread Krishna Con- sciousness is just in the line of Sri Chaita- nya Mahaprabhu; I surmise that you have already learned many things about the life and teachings of Lord Chaitanya, because of your intimate association with my God- brother Swami Sadanandaji. I shall be very glad to talk more elaborately on the subject matter when we meet at Montreal in the month of June. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-44 Los Angeles 25th February, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Karunamayee Dasi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter dated Feb. 15, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I can see how you are advancing in Krishna Consciousness by the feelings ex- pressed therein, and I am so glad you are feeling such transcendental pleasure in serving the Lord. This trancendental plea- sure is unlimited and increases as we in- crease our desire to give more and more voluntary service. To surrender to Krish- na all at once is not generally possible, but as we serve Krishna more and more, we gradually become more and more surren- dered at His Lotus Feet. So you please continue to serve Krishna in these ways you have mentioned, and do not feel that your service is any less valuable than that of others. In the transcendental loving ser- vice of the Lord, it doesn’t matter whether we are working, cooking, painting, writ- ing, chanting, or whatever, they are all the same. There are no such distinctions of higher and lower on the transcendental 334 Letters from Srila Prabhupada platform. The important thing is that we are engaging our time and energy in the service of the Lord. After all, we are so tiny, what can we do? Krishna sees simply that this time is being spent in His service. Please continue to help Gargamuni in his efforts to spread Krishna Consciousness, and chant, and continue your duties, and in this way you will be happy and success- ful in Krishna Consciousness. I am happy to hear you are so much anxious in help- ing to start a new temple. Your enthusiasm is very encouraging to me; there is great need for the spreading of Krishna Con- sciousness, and we need so many enthusi- astic boys and girls for carrying on this great mission of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. My Guru Maharaj wanted that this Krishna Consciousness be spread all over the Western countries especially, and now in my old age, I am leaving this great re- sponsibility in the hands of all you my stu- dents. Regarding your questions: Once pra- sadam (water, or foodstuffs) is offered to the Lord, His Plate should remain on the altar for about 15-20 minutes (while the portion in the pots may be taken by the devotees). Water need only remain there for a few minutes. Once the prasadam is removed from the altar, and touched by us, it should not again be placed on the al- tar. Whatever we offer should be as fresh and pure as is possible. So long we are engaged in the service of the Lord, He has assured us all protec- tion. But if we are attacked, of course we must defend ourselves as best we can. No- body can compare with the Merciful Ni- tyananda. He can defend Himself quite well; He could have killed the sinners in an instant, but He had decided that He wanted to save these sinners. He was set- ting an example that we have to preach Krishna Consciousness even at the risk of personal violence. Just like the children sometimes become violent, but the father knows he can defend himself at any time, and so he tries to teach them correctly by reprimanding them. Yes, it is respectful to circumambulate the temple, keeping your right side to the Deities if possible. You may dance around the temple in this way if you like. I have no complaints with my health and I am feeling well. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-45 Los Angeles 25th February, 1968 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of a copy of your last Istagosti dated Jan. 27, and I am very much satisfied with your replies on the questions made in the Istagosti. The meeting is called ‘‘Ista- gosti? and not ‘“‘Istagoshi”. You may know also that Ramakrsna’s worship of Kali makes him a third class man. In the Bhagavad Gita it is stated that one who worships the demigods just like Brahma, Siva, Indra, Chandra or demigodesses like Kali, Durga, Saraswati, etc., are de- scribed as persons who have lost their in- telligence. One person who has lost his intelligence, how he can become an incar- nation of God? A person who has lost his intelligence, is not even counted amongst the higher section of society. So, the Ra- makrsna is a bogus man according to the statement of Bhagavad Gita. Vivekananda was also not even intelligent man because he accepted Ramakrsna as incarnation of Gold. This Ramakrsna, who is actually Gadhadhar Chatterjee, declared himself as the same Rama and Krsna. If he is ac- cepted as such by some person, is he very intelligent man? Suppose a man comes before somebody and says he is Pres. Johnson. and the foolish man accepts the pretender as Pres. Johnson, is that man to FEBRUARY, 1968 335 be acceptedas very intelligent man? Vive- kananda was not even an intelligent man because he accepted Gadhadhar Chatter- jeee as incarnation of God without any credentials. We accept Krsna, the Su- preme Personality of Godhead on the evi- dence of Vedic literature. There is no evidence in the Vedic literatures that a common unintelligent person by worship- ping a demigoddess Kali can become an incarnation of Godhead. The goddess Kali is divine mother for the conditioned souls, not for the liberated souls. There is no direction in the Vedic literatures that one can become liberated even by wor- shipping the goddess Kali. She is superin- tendent of the prison house known as material world. One can derive some ma- terial facilities by worshipping Kali or Durga, but nobody can become liberated by worshipping such demigoddesses, so what to shpeak of becoming incarnation of Godhead. So the propaganda that Ra- makrsna became incarnation of God by worshipping KDali is not accepted by any authorized acharya and therefore it is a bogus propaganda. One who follows therefore, such bogus propaganda is also misled as far as his spiritual advancement is concerned. You have to meet many opposing ele- ments in the matter of preaching work therefore you should always be careful to follow the principles of Bhagavad Gita as it is. You will be glad to know that our ar- rangements with MacMillin for publish- ing Bhagavad Gita As It Is is alrady completed, and the manuscript is handed over to them. We should preach clearly that our Krsna Consciousness movement is surely on the basis of Bhagavad Gita as it is. Any other movement which does not tally with the principles of Bhagavad Gita as it is, is considered by us as unauthor- ized. All these so-called yogic or other spiritualist movements in this country im- ported from India are all against the prin- ciples of Bhagavad Gita. It is our movement only which strictly follows the principles of the Bhagavad Gita, under the guidance of the authorities or acharyas in disciplic succession from Lord Chaitanya who practically demonstrated in life and practice the principles of Bhagavad Gita. The last word in the Bhagavad Gita is to surrender unto Krsna and Lord Chaitanya taught us to surrender unto Krsna. His transcendental movement of chanting the Holy name of Krsna and Rama in the sub- lime movement, not only at the present age, but for all the time past, present and future. 68-2-46 Los Angeles 25th February, 1968 My dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I am very much satisfied with your transliteration and request you to transliterate the 2nd Canto of Srimad Bhagawatam, and the original text is sent herewith. Please find. On your completion of the transliteration, the original copy may be sent directly to the following address: Hitsaran Sharma, Radha Press, 993/3 Main Road, Gandhi Nagar, Delhi 31, India with the covering letter as follows: “Dear Sharmaji, Please accept my respectful obiesances. Under instructions from Our Spiritual Master, His Divine Grace, Sri Srimad A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Ma- haraj, I am sending herewith the translit- eration of the 2nd Canto of Srimad Bhagawatam with diacritic marks. Kindly insert this transliteration in place of sim- ple transliteration which is already with you. Swami ji has already requested you to collect some letters with diacritic marks and we wish you will kindly do the need- ful. Hope you are well. Thanking you in 336 Letters from Srila Prabhupada anticipation.” One carbon copy of the transliteration may be sent to me with a carbon copy of the covering letter to Hitsaran Sharma. The composition of the Second Canto is already begun. Therefore, the more quickly you send the transliteration to the above press is better. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-47 Los Angeles 26th February, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 24, along with two copies of letters, one from Purushottam das Brahmachary at Vrinda- ban, another from Teen Activity Center of Kings. This letter from the Activity Center is very hopeful for our Kirtan propaganda. I am very much ambitious for leading a Kirtan party, especially all over your state, and Europe. Hansadutta is trying to organize this party. If you can move with this Kirtan party, say a batch of 12 to 15 heads, all over the States, as well as Europe, I am sure we will be more popular than the so-called yogi Maharishi Mahesh. I have received another letter from Achyutananda in which it appears that he is not fixed up in staying in India. He is very seriously thinking of coming back, and this is very disappointing. If he comes back then our dream of opening a center in India is not very encouraging, because Kirtananda came back, Ra- manuja has joined with the Buddhist camp, and Achyutananda at the beginning showed very encouraging hopes, but that is gradually vanishing, and he is eager to come back. The other two boys living with Bon Maharaj, they are not very much hopeful, especially Harivilas. I have heard about him lots of things from Ra- manuja and Achyutananda, and you have written about him that he is little fanatical. Under the circumstances, how it is possi- ble to combine them together and open a branch in India? If I would have been there, I could manage, but I am here. I do not think Rayrama may prepare to go to India at the present moment. When I re- turn to New York, we shall consult to- gether and do the needful. In the meantime, let us consolidate our energy for bringing the books. My health is ordinarily good, but that hissing sound sometimes is disturbing me. I consulted a physician here, and he has given me some medicine, but it is not improving. I have written today one letter to Achy- utananda to come back if he thinks seri- ously to do so. I have received the copy of your letter sent to DaiNippon and if they agree to the proposal, it is all right. Regarding Purushottam Brahmachary’s letter from Vrindaban: if you think you are able to purchase 340 copies at 40% discount, then you can send one letter to Narayan Maharaj asking if he will take the responsibility of receiving the books from him, and pack them and send to Calcutta ' to our shipping agent. If he wants to take the responsibility and the trouble to do this, then you can send him bank draft be- ing the price of the books, and he will do the needful. In the meantime, I am su- prised you have not received the docu- ments from United Shipping Corpora- tion. I have sent you copy of their last let- ter in which it is said the goods have been shipped by S.S. Flying Enterprise on the 14th of January, 1968. As such, the ship should have reached by now New York, so please take information immediately whether the ship has arrived and also send immediately one letter to the United Ship- ping Corp. I think nowadays it takes a long time to arrive in New York from Calcutta FEBRUARY, 1968 337 on account of the Suez Canal being closed. Anyway, you should find out the list of arriving ships from the port infor- mation and do the needful. If the ship is arrived recently, send them a telegram why the documents not received. I am glad to understand that Lord Jag- ganatha is being repaired, and after this he will begin carving Sri Radha Krishna Murti. I am getting one Pair carved by Goursundar. Please find out if this boy Bob has got any knowledge or experience of casting, or any such equipment. I want to make 100 Murtis, probably in hard rub- ber, for our Temples. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, N.B. You have asked about the printing of Srimad Bhagwatam. The printing of the next 3 volumes has already begun in In- dia. But if it is possible to print it here, then, as you know, we have got 50 or so more volumes, and they can be printed here if it can be arranged. But the next 3 volumes have already begun being printed in India, and I have sent you the specimen copy of printing. If printing of Bhagawa- tam is done here and a Kirtan party is or- ganised then I shall never go back to India. I shall stay here at your good care till by death. Hansaduta will help me in establishing a New Vrindaban in the West. Please inform Hansaduta that I have received his encouraging letter: I am glad to learn that Sriman Woomapati is coming to see me. He is heartily welcome. Kindly care of the shipping affairs from India. 68-2-48 Los Angeles 26th February, 1968 Andrea Temple c/o General Delivery Freeport, Grand Bahama Island, Bahamas My Dear Andrea Temple, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 20, 1968, and it is very encouraging to me. I am so happy to hear that, by Krishna’s Grace, people in that place are taking in- terest in Krishna Consciousness. This Krishna Consciousness is the most urgent need of the whole human society, and we need so many preachers, both boys and girls, to spread this message throughout the world. So it is very much encouraging to me to learn of your activities there in the Bahama Islands. So far my coming to Bahamas, I am willing to come there and continue the work of my Guru Maharaj of spreading this SAMKIRTAN movement all over the Western countries. Chaitanya Maha- prabhu wanted that this Hare Krishna Mantra be sung and chanted in every vil- lage and town of the globe, and I am sim- ply trying to carry out the order of my Guru Maharaj to give this Divine Mes- sage to the people of the Western world. Iam mendicant, and Sannyasi, and the guest of my students here in the Western world. If you wish for me to fly to Baha- mas, then you please send me airplane ticket and I shall come at your bidding. Also, two tickets will be required for my attendents, but I think they may go on the youth fare, which is less expensive. I have been told the weather is very warm there, and the sunshine may be very beneficial to my health. Simply I require some quiet place so to continue my translating work on Srimad Bhagwatam, and that’s all. We are mendicant, and missionary, and can make our dwelling place anywhere. Please continue your good work there, and I am awaiting your reply. I have got plans to leave Los Angeles on March 9 for San Francisco; the address there is ISKCON, 518 Frederick Street, San Francisco, 94117. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 338 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-2-49 26th February, 1968 My Dear Uddhava and Chitananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters sent on Feb. 26, 1968. Yes, the idea of finding a large house for all the devotees is very nice. Please do it. And, if it is available, I shall stay there also, but it must be a quiet place, as much as possible. If it is not yet available, then I can stay in the building above the temple, provided the lift works. So far the speaking engagements are concerned, they must be well-organized and sponsored, so that there will be enough publicity and many people will come. We arenotcheap, we want to speak something, but there must be good ac- comodations provided. There must be speaker system, and there must be good publicity beforehand so that many may know of us and come. This is very impor- tant. As it is presently planned, we shall leave this place on the 8th of March by PSA Airlines. The flight number is 977, and it leaves Burbank at 10:10 a.m. and arrives at San Francisco at 11:05 a.m. So you can make arrangements accordingly, and I will be very anxious to see all my good San Francisco students again. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-2-50 Los Angeles 28th February, 1968 San Francisco Dear Mukunda and Janaki, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letters of Feb. 24 and 25, 1968, and I have noted the con- tents. Yes, if you can find out some dis- tributing agent for our Back to Godhead, that is very good. Please do it. I have re- ceived both dictaphone machines, and the new one is working nicely. The foreign one I have yet to test at some shop, which I will do this week. I have written in Ud- dhava’s letter that I shall be arriving on March 8th, and we can discuss the meet- ing at the Immigration Bureau at that time. I thank you very much for that nice sketch done by Janaki, and I shall have Ja- durani begin a painting from that pose. So far the spirit soul is concerned, if condi- tions are for some reason not favorable in some place, he is forced to leave that womb and take shelter in another. And if there is chanting of Hare Krishna, even the soul is there for a short time, oh, he will hear and become advanced. This sound vibration is not material, it is spiri- tual, and powerful beyond our concep- tion. So it cannot be hindered in any way by something material; it surpasses all these material barriers. So you can know it that when you are chanting, you are also giving benefit to even the child in the womb. I hope you are feeling much healthier by this time, and I shall be very glad to see you when I arrive in San Fran- cisco. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please handover the enclosed letterto Uddhava & Chitananda. ACB 68-2-51 Los Angeles 28th February, 1968 Messers United Shipping Corp. 1402 Old China Bazar Street Room 18 Calcutta 1 Dear Mr. Mittra, Please refer to my last letter. It is un- derstood that from my New York office FEBRUARY, 1968 339 five hundred dollars has already been re- mitted to you through the First National City Bank of New York on the 3rd Janu- ary, 1968. You were to ship the cases of books and musical instruments on the llth of January, 1968, but I have heard nothing from you until now. Kindly en- lighten me on this matter immediately as I am anxious to know this matter. Please take this as urgent and reply by return post to the above address. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami MARCH 68-3-1 Los Angeles Ist March, 1968 My Dear Achyutananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter addressed to Mukunda and Guru das, in which you write to say that I may send you a telegram sanctioning your redurn. This means that you have be- come very much anxious to return back to USA, and I have become very much anx- ious to return back to USA, and Ihave also already sanctioned it, in reply to your last letter post-dated Feb. 21. The real thing is that you are feeling alone, and because you are so to say, child, you have become nervous. Otherwise for a preacher there is no difficulty anywhere, irrespective of climate and conditions. I came here in the month of December, and as my country is warmer to you, similarly your country is colder to me. I am also in diseased condi- tion. When dI first came to your country I passed through practically all the seasons. I came here in 1965, Sept., and I re- mainedj in the Northern pordtion of your country, namely N.Y., Penn., and dMass., etc., continually from Sept. 1965 to Dec. 1966. And you know how much severe cold is N.Y.: I passed through snow on the dN.Y. street, so cer- tainly I wasn’t very much in comfortable situation. kStill I had the strength of mind, and I continued to stay. kSimilarly, if you have strength of mind, you can stay always in India eveen in the most inconvenient condition. Another difficulty is that al- though you are four already in DIndia, you cannot live together. Ramanuja left the camp as soon as I left you. You do not like Harivilas. So you are living scattered. That is another difficulty. If you would have lived together with mutual coopera- tion, ther would have been no trouble; but I think that is also not possible. In my plain opinion, DI think if you cank all three at present moment, namely yourself, DHarivilas, and Rishikesh, live tolgether, there will be no difficulty. You are going to Vrindaban, so formerly you told me that you selected a very nice house at Rs. 50 per month, why not take that house and live together, all three, chant Hare Krsna, and try to remain in transcen- dental peace. In Vrindaban, the system is that during daytime one can live down- stairs and with door closed, and electric fan running on. I was staying in Radha Da- modara Temple in my room in the same way, by closing the door, making it com- plete dark and running on the fan. I was never in trouble. So if one is jdetermined to stay, things could be adjusted to live to- gether in Krsna Conscious cooperation. Ido not however, insist that you to stay, but if you like you can take that housej at Rs. 50 permonth, and start an American House there immediately. Or as you have decided, you can come back to USA by end of March; I have no objection. But Before coming, you should keep my things properly in my room, and lock it properly, and bring the keys with you and deliver them to me when I shall be in N.Y. in the month of April. The cooking uten- sils, blankets, and the typewriter, my be kept very safelyk in the room. The type- writer may be kept in the metal box, and the blankets and wrappers may be hanged from the ceiling hanger. And the money 342 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda which you’ver got, may be deposited in my account in the Punjab National Bank, account number 9913. When you come back, you can please bring with you 2 lbs. of Triphala, and 2 Ibs. of Badailaich. I hope you are feeling better by this time. Your ever well-wisher, 68-3-2 Los Angeles lst March, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 27, 1968, and I have already sent one letter a few days ago to Achyutananda sanctioning his coming back, in consideration of his deteriorated health. Today also I am writ- ing one letter to him, the copy of which is enclosed herewith, which will speak for itself. THis Maya will attack the body al- ways, because the body itself is the source of all troubles. We try to make a solution of our misfortunes, but at the same time we want to keep this body. People do not understand the simple truth that if anyone wants real happiness, he has to get out of the entanglements of this material body, which is only possible by practice of Krishna Consciousness. About going to India, via Europe, vis- iting several countries, like England, Am- sterdam, Germany, etc., we shall confer together when I return back to N.Y. in April; I think Janardan will also come to join in the conference. So we have to make our program for future activity jointly. There must have been some mistake. I think $395.00 is the total shipping charges for all the cases. These are some of the difficulties of Export-Import business. So you have to go to the shipping office and see the real things. I have not yet received your copy of the letter received from them. Anyway, you have to clear the goods and do it at your discretion. Be- cause how can I know things from such a distant place. Remind the Brijabasi Co. in reply to their last letter. Regarding press affairs: When I return to NY, we shall talk together with Mr. Kallman, that if he invests only $10,000, we can have a nice press equipment for conducting all our printing works, includ- ing books. In case Mr. Kallman is pre- pared to invest at least $5,000, then we can also invest $5000 from the book fund. And I think investment of $10,000 will be sufficient for starting a press just neces- sary for our work. Regarding supplies from India: I have induced my younger son, Brindaban De, to supply all kinds of Indian craftsman- ship, namely ornaments, cloth, fine arts, dolls, saris, wooden slippers, linen shirts, or, anything that is sellable here, on 10% commission, and he has agreed. Mu- kunda and Gargamuni have agreed, and they are going to place orders to him. I think he may get 10% commission for his labor, and he can supply everything you may require from India. The terms is 25% should be advanced, and the balance paid on delivery of the documents. This ar- rangement, I think, will help to import all kinds of Indian art without any difficulty, and you can arrange for importing things that you may require. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, P.S. Your second letter of 2/28/68 is just received while posting this letter with en- closures. So far the shipping documents are concerned you can clear the goods by presenting the original letters of the ship- ping agents. In the meantime I am writing to the Punjab National Bank. India govt is worthless management. So there is some anomalies which will be rectified. In the MARCH, 1968 343 meantime get the goods cleared with In- demnity Board if so required. I cannot ap- ply my brain in everything. This taxes me so much that my heart begins to ___ Please therefore do the needful by seeing the shipping authorities, and in the mean- time I shall read the letters calmly. In fu- ture I think we shall have to change this shipping agents and find out one better. You will be glad to learn that Jaiy- ananda the President of San Francisco is purchasing a nice house there as we tried in New York. The price is $50,000.00 or near about and he has asked my approval. I think I shall send my approval with plea- sure and as soon as the house’s purchased we shall install Sri Sri RadhaKrishna Vi- graha there in a permanent place. The copy of Achyutananda’s letter is enclosed. I am leaving for San Francisco on the 8th March by 10 o’clock morning. Hope you are well. Your servant, 68-3-3 Los Angeles lst March, 1968 My Dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Feb. 23, 1968. The description of the house which you propose to purchase is very much at- tractive. And I think it is Krishna’s ar- rangement by His inconceivable energy in exchange of your sincere service to the Lord. Ihave gone through the whole letter and it is all encouraging, and therefore I have full sympathy with the transaction, and I approve of your good attempts to purchase this house according to the right estimation; it appears to me all round good. The arrangement of payment is also very nice. I know that you haven’t got to pay the house tax, as it is owned by ISKCON, which is tax free organization all round. As you have desired to liquidate the loan in respect of this purchase, I am sure Krishna will help you in this direction. We are starting for S.F. on the 8th, flight no. 977 at 10:10 a.m. ; this informa- tion is already sent to Uddhava. I think you will do the needful. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Feb- ruary 26, 1968, and I have noted the con- tents. No, when the Lord appears it is mentioned in the Bhagavad Gita that He does so in His Own Internal Potency. This Internal Potency is called Yoga Maya. All Pastimes and activities of the Lordare ad- ministered by the Yoga Maya. Therefore, He is not under the influence of material energy, as the conditioned souls are. By the arrangement of Yoga Maya, the devo- tees sometimes forget the Presence of the Omnipotent Lord. Just like Yasoda Mayee treats Krishna as her begotten Son, and forgets Krishna’s inconceivable power. Therefore, she asks Krishna to open His Mouth to see whether He actually ate some earth. He showed her that He swal- lowed not only a bit of earth, but the whole cosmic manifestation. Yasoda Mata was astonished to see this miracle, but still she forgot that Krishna is God, that Krishna is the Supreme Lord Himself, and not her ordinary Son. In this way, reciprocation between the Lord and His devotees takes place. The Lord doesn’t forget but in or- der to enthuse the Pastimes of the Lord, the action of Yoga Maya is prominent. 344 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-3-4 Los Angeles lst March, 1968 My Dear Sri Krishnaji, Please accept my greetings. I received your letter dated February 2, 1968 duly but I am delayed to reply because I was consulting my colleagues about you and the kirtana parties coming here at our ex- pense. To call a man from India and to ar- range for his stay here at best for six months in different branches of our city means rupees 20,000/—or $2,000: per head, If we call for you and a party of nice kirtana singers, five men altogether, it means rupees 100,000/—the Society is not in a position to spend such an amount at present period. I am therefore training local boys and girls for kirtana and very soon we shall be out on world tour with this kirtana party. In India, however, many rich business men maybe ready to spend this amount to spread the kirtana movement. But the Govt. will not allow us to spend Indian money in such fashion without special sanction. I have written to authorities at the Govt. of India for sanc- tion, but I have received no reply til now. You assured me that you would be able to get such sanction from Dr. Zakir Hussein but you are now silent on this format. Why not take sanction from him for this pur- pose and I will arrange money from India. Another proposal is that many Indian gentlemen request of me to sponsor them to come to U.S.A. In that connection, I may inform you that if somebody is ready to spend rupees 20,000/—at least I can ar- range for his coming here U.S.A. and stay with us as our guest for six months in our different branches. If somebody is ready to deposit this amount in India then I shall arrange to send him a return ticket by air with letters of sponsoring for six months as our guest and Mr Singh who you intro- duced to me in Delhi may be interested to accept this proposal then you can talk with him if he is serious about this. Not only Mr Singh but anyone who is ready to spend like that will be sponsored by my Society to come here and stay with us for six months in different branches as our guests. I hope you are well. I am going to San Francisco on March 8, 1968. So you can reply me there. Yours, etc. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-5 Los Angeles lst March, 1968 Manager Punjab National Bank, Ltd. Vrindaban, India Dear Sir: Kindly refer to your letter number 153, dated at Vrindaban, Feb. 19th, 1968, addressed to United Shipping Corp, 14/2 Old China Bazar Street, Room No. 18, Calcutta, regarding ship- ment of 15 cases of books to New York per S.S. “Flying Enterprise” a/c A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami. With reference to the above, I beg to inform you that the remittance of more than Rs. 13,000 as was received by you for credit of my ac- count on 5/8/67 includes the price of the books shipment, by S. S. “Flying En- terprise.” This was already declared by me to the shipping agent as it was needed by the exchange authorities. As such you can forward the documents im- mediately to me as it is needed that the documents should come through you. I hope you will kindly do the needful without delay. In the meantime, I have advised you to transfer Rs. 3,500 to your Brabourne Road branch for credit of my account there, and I hope you have already done MARCH, 1968 345 this. A line in reply to this letter will be very much appreciated. Thanking you in anticipation. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-6 Los Angeles 3rd March, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta and Himavati devi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letters, one dated the 23rd of Feb. and the other un- dated. I have noted the contents, and your attitude of service is so nice. I am pleased to hear that you have begun practicing for the Kirtan party; please keep me informed how you are progressing. Yes, if you like, you can also arrange for costumes and wig; one boy may be dressed as Lord Chaitanya, another as Nityananda, as well as Gadadhar, Adwaita with white beard and Sri Vas with shaven head. Responsive chanting is very nice; one good singer may lead, and the others may join in. That is the system in India. It is very good for two reasons especially: One, the chanter gets to rest, so he does not become tired, and two, you get to chant and hear, that is the process. You may also have melodious accompaniment instruments, and ampli- fiers. Blowing of the conch shell and horns is very nice. Yes, to be determined that the child will have his last birth into ignorance is very good. It is true that one should be- come a parent only if he can deliver his ward from the clutches of death. And that is possible only with Krishna Conscious- ness. This is a very great service for Krishna, to give all opportunity for the child to be trained up in devotional ser- vice, and it is very good that you are think- ing very seriously on this. The more one feels imperfect in Krishna’s service, the more he is advanc- ing in Krishna Consciousness. Even the topmost devotees feel they are inadeqate in their service to the Lord. So it is good to feel inadequate, and to try harder to please Krishna with better service. But one should never feel, oh, I have seen Krishna, and so I am reached perfection— this is not Krishna Consciousness. Please continue your very good ser- vice, and do not feel any feeling of use- lessness. It is true that Krishna has given some the opportunity to serve Him by nice writing, some by good business ability, some by nice cooking, and so on, but these various services are all accepted equally by Krishna. On the transcendental plane, one service is as good as another. There is no question of higher or lower. Weare very tiny, and so we cannot really do very much. Simply we can engage our time and energy, and that is all Krishna sees. He sees this boy or girl is spending his time in My Service, and He is pleased. I hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am going to San Francisco on 8th March 1968. ACB 68-3-7 Los Angeles 3rd March, 1968 New York My Dear Michael O’ Leary, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Feb. 27, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I am especially happy to hear your state- ment, ‘I have taken to the process of chanting Hare Krishna—feeling the results immediately.” This is very good. Please continue to chant, and execute your duties with thoughts and words of Krishna, and you will be happy always. 346 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Please try to follow the rules and regu- lations, and when I arrive in New York, we can talk together, and as you feel your- self ready, you can be initiated. If you have any doubts or questions, your good God-brothers are always ready and will- ing to help you. Brahmananda can give you the lists of the qualifications for devo- tees, and the 10 offenses, and other infor- mations as you may need. If you have got any questions, please feel at liberty to write to me about them as you desire. I am also very happy to learn you are a sculp- ture student; at the present time, I am try- ing to carve out of wood Sri Radha and Krishna Murti. If you can carve out these Deities, it will be very nice. I shall be looking forward to meeting you when I shall return to N.Y. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-8 Los Angeles 3rd March, 1968 Sri Harikishandas Aggarwal Gupta Hills Estate Bombay-10, INDIA My Dear Seth Harikishandasji, Iam so glad to receive your letter No. 02481, dated Feb. 20, 1968, posted late, as on Feb. 27, 1968. I thank you once more for your appreciating my mission of one God, Sri Krishna; one scripture, Bha- gavad Gita; and one mantra, Hare Krishna. This idea is not manufactured by me, but it is authoritative statement in the Gita Mahatma Scandhapurana. You have asked me to let you know about the con- crete plan for Bombay and I beg to submit as follows. Some years before, when I was staying in your Prem Kutir you expressed your de- sire to organize a SANKIRTAN party, and I wish that it may be done now to help me in my mission. If you have got oppor- tunity to purchase one copy of Life Maga- zine, published Feb. 9, 1968, you will find there on page 56, how nicely the American boys and girls are dancing and chanting the Holy Name of the Lord. A SAMKIRTAN party as they can be orga- nized in India is not possible here. Here the boys and girls, they are very serious about chanting, but they are not trained singers, or singers in the tune we chant in India. Therefore, I wish that if you orga- nize a SAMKIRTAN party there, com- pletely trained in spiritual ways, and the American students combine with them, I think a very nice SAMKIRTAN party can be organized to travel all over the world. I have tested it definitely that melodious vi- bration of SAMKIRTAN, if they are per- formed by serious devotees, can attract people from the very spiritual platform, and it at once makes the spiritual back- ground very smooth, when a spiritual in- struction from the Bhagavad Gita can be implemented very nicely. So my first con- crete program is that if you agree to orga- nize such a SAMKIRTAN party, a batch of American students may join, and I can combine these American and Indian dev- otees together under discipline. The American boys are being trained up strictly on spiritual line, which I have al- ready explained to you in my last letter. Similarly, the Indian boys or girls must be spiritually trained; it is only by spiritually trained vibration can implement spiritual seeds in the heart of the audience, not oth- erwise. So, if you agree to cooperate with me in this direction, thenI wish to go with a batch of American students to your care and stay in Bombay for some time, and try to open a branch in Bombay of our society. Here we have got six temples already, and they are nicely being managed by the American Vaishnavas under strict disci- pline, without their being born in any MARCH, 1968 347 Hindu family. Similarly, in Bombay, we are inviting all classes of men to join us; we have no distinction of caste, creed, color or religiousity. Anyone can join us, never mind whatever he is. (We shall en- tertain Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Jains, Sikhs, Buddhists, or whoever may come. We shall have no restriction. In that Temple, everyone will be welcome. In other words, in our secular state and inter- national feelings of God-consciousness will be introduced, where no one will be restricted.) And I am glad to inform you that this principle is accepted by everyone working under me. So, the sum and sub- stance of the concrete program is to orga- nize a nice SAMKIRTAN party in combination of Indian and American stu- dents. I want your cooperation in this ad- venture. Regarding Vedanta and Bhagavad Gita. There is no doubt about it that Bha- gavad Gita is real Vedanta philosophy. Lord Krishna says in the 15th chapter that He is the Compiler of Vedanta philosophy, and He is the Knower of Vedanta Philoso- phy. Lord Krishna says this, and who can‘ be a better Knower of Vedanta philosophy than Krishna? In another place of the 13th chapter, Lord Krishna had accepted the authority of Brahma Sutra, which is also Vedanta philosophy. So the question is only how one explains Vedanta philoso- phy or Bhagavad Gita. We are trying to explain Bhagavad Gita as it is, without any interpretation. And you will be glad to know that we are publishing one English edition of Bhagavad Gita, about 400 Pages, through Messrs. Macmillan and Company. Another thing you have written to say, ‘‘If you keep the gates of names and forms open to ultimately realize the form- less, would be entitling in a larger number of persons to your mission.” My point is one God. Ultimately you want to merge in the formless, or you want some material facilities, or you want to serve Krishna as His personal associate. Never mind, whatever you want, you wor- ship one God, Krishna, and not bothering with the ultimate gain. The ultimate gain can be achieved as one desires. Krishna is all powerful, so if somebody wants mate- rial gain from Krishna, it is not difficult for Him to award such benediction. Simi- larly, if anyone wants to merge in the Im- personal Brahman effulgence, formless, He can also award the facility. In the same way, if anyone wants to associate with Krishna in five transcendental relation- ships, he can award also that facility. So, my point is, that whatever you want at the end, that doesn’t matter, but you worship Krishna, and He will award whatever you desire. One God, Krishna, means that let everyone come to one God, Krishna, and be engaged in Krishna Consciousness, and the award will be as the devotee de- sires. This is also stated in the Bhagavad Gita; “Chatur Bhida Bhajantemam’’. Also, it is stated in the Srimad Bhagawa- tam, as follows: “Akama Sarvakama Va Mokshakama Udaradhih Tibrena Bhakti- jogena Yajeta Paramam Purusham.’ Akama means the devotees, sarvakama means the fruitive workers or Karmis, and Mokshkama means the salvationist who wants to merge in the formless Brahman. So there are three clases of men and all are recommended to worship the Supreme Person Krishna with great energy of devo- tional service. So we invite everyone to join this movement, accepting Krishna as the tangible God for all practical pur- poses, and the worship of God is made easy by chanting the Mantra Hare Krishna, which is accepted even in far Western countries. You will be pleased to know that Hare Krishna Mantra is being chanted not only in America, but also in Europe by my record albums, and fol- lowers. I have got already invitations from many parts of Europe and they are appre- ciating my movement. Nobody feels 348 Letters from Srila Prabhupada reluctance in joining the chanting of Hare Krishna Mantra. Your good self also be- lieves in the Mantra and certainly in Krishna as God. I have seen it that Swami Akhandananda worships Krishna in his apartment in Bombay. So we request ev- eryone to worship Krishna and chant the Mantra, irrespectively, never mind whether one is a devotee, a fruitive worker, or a salvationist at the ultimate goal. We don’t disagree with anyone, namely the Karmis, Jnanins, Yogis, etc, although we are devotees. We simply re- quest everyone to worship Krishna as the Supreme Lord and join with us in this great movement of Krishna Conscious- ness! Please therefore accept this concrete proposal for common platform of tran- scendence and spread this movement by all means. Bombay is the most important city in India. There are many advanced gentlemen in Bombay interested in tran- scendental elevation. Why not join this movement which does not discriminate between human being to human being, and thus everyone, either Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Jews, Buddhists, Sikhs, or anyone also, all can join in this melodious SAMKIRTAN movement and accept Lord Krishna Prasadam in Temple with great relish. I have begun this movement in this country America, and I think I am successful. I have many hundreds of Krishna Bhaktas in this country, and they are increasing in number daily. And why not in India and in Pakistan? We are trying to get admission in the U.N. as non- governmental organization. And when successful, we shall introduce this cul- tural movement in all countries, including Russia and China. So, those who are aspirant of merging into the formless effulgence of Krishna, they also can worship Krishna. That is recommended in all Vedic literature. But Krishna is the Supreme Lord. He has de- cidedly said in Srimad Bhagwatam, “Krishnas Tu Bhagavan Swayam”. So, if the Indian transcendentalists, those who are very serious about spreading this mes- sage of Bhagavad Gita may join this movement, backed by the SAMKIRTAN movement as enunciated by Lord Chaita- nya, it will be great success. And there is every possibility of oneness all over the world, without any communal differ- ences. Hope you are well, and awaiting your further reply. Yours sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-9 Los Angeles 3rd March, 1968 My dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due reciept of your letter dated Feb. 29, 1968. With reference to your Gaursunda das letter, “I am being overloaded with mail lately” is not meant for you. I must have sufficent correspondence with the main pillars of the society. You are one of them, so you are at liberty to write me as many letters as it is required. Sometimes I recieve many letters from devotees with questions which could be solved in the Is- tagostie meetings. I am so glad to learn that you are now editing TLC with keen interest. Please do it nicely and finish it as soon as possible. Regarding kitchen affairs, as a rule those who are not initiated may not enter into the kitchen affairs, but uninitiated mem- bers can work under the guidance of an- other initiated member when there is great need. So the direction which you are giving to the willing girls to help with the kitchen affairs is not objectionable. You can go on doing that. Regarding Indian center, unless we have full co-operation of Mr. Sharma, it is MARCH, 1968 349 not advisable to open a center there. Achyutananda is feeling sick and willing to return to his mother, so opening of In- dian center may be set aside for the time being until Ihave the opportunity to return back to India. In the meantime there is a good news for us that Jayananda, the president of our San Franicsco center, is attempting to have their own house in San Francisco. I am returning to San Francisco on the 8th March. I shall see how the matters have proceeded there. Now, if somewhere we get our own house and start our own press and we sit down together for publishing Back to Godhead and other books, how will you like the idea? Most probably I will get my permanent resident visa, and if we sit together for concentrating our en- ergies in the matter of important publica- tion work, it doesn’t matter whether we are in USA or in India. Our proposal to open a press in India was to get cheap la- bor, but here in USA, if our brahmacha- ries work in the press, there is no question of labor expenditure at all. Subal das has got some experience in working in the press. Similarly, yourself, Purushottam, Madhusudan, and others have got some experience. So how would you like the idea of starting a press in our own building at San Francisco? I shall be glad to. hear from you after mature consideration. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-10 Los Angeles 4th March, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I offer the same to my daughter, Himavati, and I hope she is doing well. I am very glad that Krishna is already dictating you how to make perfect the SAMKITAN party. I completely agree with you about the pro- gram of our traveling across the country, being booked in several places. And I am glad that our friend, Allen Ginsberg, is helping you. There is no doubt about our success if we can make this Kirtan party successful. The most important point in this connection is that we shall never be professional; that is to say, we shall try to make the Kirtan party perfect from the point of view of Krishna Consciousness. The idea of introducing Pancha Tattwa in the Kirtan party was also contemplated by me. Not only that, we have to prepare dif- ferent dresses for Radha and Krishna, and Their eight confidential Associates, Sakhis. Sometimes you have to dress somebody as Nrisinghadev and Prahlad; in this way, we shall have varieties of show along with the Kritan, and all the varieties will be picked up from Srimad Bhagwa- tam and Bhagavad Gita. We have to teach the Brahmacharies and the Brahma- charinis to speak in Sanskrit some of the verses in this connection, and we explain the verses by singing, chanting, and speaking also. Sometimes in the middle of chanting and singing, we shall speak also. So, all these varieties show will be so at- tractive with melodious musical sounds, and above all our good behavior and ad- vanced Krishna Consciousness, will make this show very successful. In the meantime, you train the Kirtan party as you are doing, and the responsive method is all perfect. Ihave already written you in my last letter in this connection, and again Isay that the responsive method should be practiced. There may be more than one singer, just like you may take the leader’s seat, sometimes Jai Govinda may take the leader’s seat, sometimes others may take the leader’s seat, but the method of chant- ing and responding, then chanting, should always be followed. When I come to New York certainly we shall devise plans on this touring program, not only traveling within the States, but also traveling all 350 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda over the world. And when we go to India in course of our travel, we shall collect some Indian devotees also to join us. Not only Indian, we shall gradually collect devotees from all over the world without any discrimination. Our Krishna Con- sciousness movement must be all- pervading, as Krishnais all-pervading. You will be glad to know that in San Francisco they are trying to purchase one house. I have already suggested Rayrama for a regular printing press for printing our books. And some of the Brahmacha- ries may be engaged in the publication work, some of them may be engaged in the Kirtan party preaching work, and some of them in distributing our litera- ture. That will make our mission perfect. Just today we had one meeting in the California State College at Long Beach, Cal., they issued the enclosed pamphlet which may be published in Back to God- head. I hope you are both well and happy. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your note regarding United Ship- ping Corporation; so you can unload the books, 15 cases, paying $242.00 from my book fund, and after clearing the books, we shall see what is the cost of transport- ing. I see that United Shipping Corp. has explained in their letter, dated Feb. 22, a copy of which you have sent me, that they have not been able to pay the ocean fare for this consignment, and the money is with them, and they submit account for that. So, after clearing the books, we will see to the account. In the meantime, if possible you can see the American Export Isbrandtsen Lines, Inc., whose office is situated at 26 Broadway, New York, N.Y., 10004. I think you can see the manager of this carrying company and try to get some concessional rates for things we import from India, and maybe we may export also is one carrying company, American Mail Lines, and they have agreed to give us 10% concession on the freight. When I go to S.F., I shall see that they may grant some more concession. You have to con- vince the carrying company that our this world wide Krishna Consciousness move- ment, so everything required is for the help of this society. Government gives us all facility of exemptions from the tax, and as we have got to import so many articles from India, and maybe we may export also so many things from America to India for maintaining the status of the institution, they may give us some concessional rates. You may also mention that Scindia Steam Navigation Co. of Bombay was giving us concession all free, but recently, might be due to their internal dissension, they have stopped this concession. So we can claim some concessional rate from everyone be- cause our society is for public welfare ac- tivities. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am going to S.F. on the 8th morn- ing. If possible send some Japamalas with bags and a Mrdanga there. The Japamala with bag should be charged at $5/per piece. And Mrdanga $50.00. Tambura $100.00 Harmonium $200.00 and all money along with book sets at $16.00 shall be collected for my Book Fund. I re- quire $40,000.00 for my Bhagavatam. 68-3-11 4th March, 1968 My dear Satsvarupa, Please accept blessings. And offer the same to Jadurani & Pradyumna. I hope you are all doing well in the service of Krishna. I am leaving Los Angeles for San Franciso on the 8th March 1968 and therefore from the 6th of March 1968 you MARCH, 1968 351 can send all mails to San Francisco. You will be glad to know that Jaiyanda is pur- chasing a nice house for San Francisco & I hope I shall get the Permanent Visa also. At present I am feeling well may Krishna give me strength to serve you more & more. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-12 Sth March, 1968 My dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessings. I am just in receipt of your letter forwarded from New York. Please be happy in separation. I am separated from my Guru Maharaj since 1936 but I am always with him so long I work according to his direction. So we should all work together for satisfying Lord Krishna and in that way the feeling of separation will transform into transcen- dental bliss. Hope you are well. I am very anxious to know about the church. If they do not agree then take back the check. Your ever well wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-13 Los Angeles 6th March, 1968 Andrea Temple c/o General Delivery Freeport, Grand Bahama Island Bahamas My Dear Andrea Temple, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter post-dated March 4, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Your work in spreading Krishna Consciousness there is very much pleasing to me, and I am always glad to hear more from you. As I said in my last letter to you, I shall come there whenever you like; simply you must send me plane tickets, and I shall come. If you could arrange for speaking engagements that is very nice. I am leaving this place for San Francisco on the 8th of March, and as you like, I can fly from S.F. to Ba- hama Islands sometimes in March or April; we can make further arrangements as to the exact day after I return to S. F. You may show the woman in charge of the club our recent article in Life magazine if you like, which was published on Feb. 9, 1968, page 56. Yes, whoever you tell the chant to, itis effective. You have heard it from me and my disciples, similarly I have heard it from my Guru Maharaj, and so on, and on. Because you have heard it froma pure devotee of the Lord, therefore it is trans- mitted from you to another. Just as an aer- ial message, is transmitted from one place to another, similarly, this Guru parampara system is working. My disciples are my agents, my representatives, so by hearing it from them, you are receiving it from me. And because you are a sincere soul, those who are hearing the Mantra from you are receiving it in disciplic succes- sion, from Lord Chaitanya and from Lord Krishna. Yes, I can perform spiritual weddings for my initiated disciples. I have gotten so many young devotees married, and they are executing Krishna Consciousness nicely. That is the real purpose of married life; to live together peacefully, execute Krishna Consciousness, bring up chil- dren in Krishna Consciousness, so they will not again have to enter into this world of birth and death. Govinda dasi has read me your letter and your place sounds very nice. It is all right that you do not have a storefront at present time; simply we need some space, and your house will do very nicely. Before I come there, you should please make 352 Letters from Srila Prabhupada large advertsing campaign so that many people may come to our Kirtans. Perhaps you could order some fairly large quantity literature and propaganda from New York, and distribute in your city. Also, maybe the radio or T.V. stations may be- come interested if you approach them with our various propaganda, news clip- pings, and so forth. You can write to Brahmananda in this connection, and he can give you instructions how to do it. We must try to catch the attention of as many people as possible; so that some may come and hear us, and be benefited. If it is possible, perhaps you can begin this prop- aganda work as soon as possible, and have regular scheduled Kirtans, so that people may start coming even before my arrival. That would be very nice. Please continue your very good mis- sionary work, and keeping us informed. I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. We have received a large consign- ment of books (Srimad Bhagwatam) and musical instruments for Kirtan. You can negotiate with Brahmananda at N. Y. ACB My next address c/o ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple 518 Frederick St. San Francisco, Calif. 94117 68-3-14 Los Angeles 6th March, 1968 My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated March 2, 1968. So far the temple is concerned, do what is easier, without too much impli- cating yourself. The Indians there do not sound to be very reliable; that is my opin- ion also. So concentrate more on the Ca- nadians and Europeans. Generally, the Indians who come to this country are for material gain only; they have not got very much serious interest in anything spiri- tual. So when I come there, I shall try to turn the Indians there to become sympa- thetic to our temple, but most of them be- ing non-Vaishnavas, they may not take to our strict Vaishnava principles. There- fore, they are hopeless to the 80%. If you can sublet the present house, it is better, because that way we can occupy later on if need be. I would like to maintain a Krishna Consciousness boarding house there someday if it is at all possible. But as it is not very easy to maintain the big house at the present time, and you think it best to move to the cheaper one, then I have no objection. It is better not to be too much bothered with rent, and getting into debt that is not very good; so you take care of the matter in the way that there will be less difficulty. Yes, if Mahapurusha is more needed in New York for his fine cooking service, then he may go there when necessary. Please convey my blessings for both Ma- hapurusha and Shivananda; they are very sincere souls working very hard to please Krishna and their Spiritual Master. You are all very good servitors of the Lord there, and I am very much anxious for your writings to begin, as they will be a great aid in our spreading of this Krishna Consciousness. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am leaving S.F. on the 8th March, 1968. Most probably I shall get my per- manent residence Visa in U.S.A. ACB MARCH, 1968 353 68-3-15 Los Angeles 7th March, 1968 My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated March 6, 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. Regarding the observance of Lord Chaitanya’s Advent Day: No, there is no need for any other devotional songs or chants; simply chant Hare Krishna, with Kirtan or beads, and sing the prayer “Sri Krishna Chaitanya Prabhu Ni- tyananda, Sri Adwaita Gadadhar, SriVa- sadi, Gour Bhaktavrinda.”’ You can also chant the prayer you asked about. This was spoken by Lord Nityananda while He was preaching in the town. He was ad- dressing the people: “My dear brothers, you simply worship Lord Chaitanya; talk of Lord Chaitanya; speak Lord Chaita- nya’s Name, so anyone who does so, he is my life and soul.’ Thus spoke Lord Ni- tyananda. So far the reading is concerned, you may read any one of the books you have mentioned—Introduction to Srimad Bhagwatam, Professor Sanyal’s book, Srila Bhaktivinode’s book Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Life and Precepts, or En- glish translation of Sri Sri Chaitanya Charitamrita. Best thing is to take any one of the above mentioned books and finish it, from beginning to end. You can do that with Srila Bhaktivinode’s book, that would be very nice. At the meeting everyone should try to speak something on Chaitanya Maha- prabhu’s life, teachings, and philosophy. You can take quotations from the above mentioned books, and have discussions. Fasting should be continued up to eve- Ning, then you may have food like on Ika- dasee, fruits, milk, etc. On the next day you may observe festival. Janardan con- Sulted me and said he thinks Sunday feast- ing would be best, so you may do that if you like. Or you may do both days, as you feel best. It is very good news that you are hold- ing kirtans at universities; I very much ap- preciate your endeavors for holding Kirtans. Krishna has given you good op- portunity for serving and you are doing it sincerely, so there is no doubt about your being promoted to the transcendental plat- form, of eternal life, bliss, and knowl- edge. I thank you very much for your good energy in the matter of executing Krishna Consciousness. I thank you once more, and I shall always pray to Krishna for your more and more advancement in Krishna Consciousness. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am leaving for San Francisco to- morrow. So you can write me there until I go to New York in April. 68-3-16 San Francisco 12th March, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 3/9/68. Yes, I safely and pleasantly arrived in S.F. from L.A. on March 8th morning, and I am keeping fit, lecturing in the Temple. The Temple atmosphere is very nice, when meeting takes place, the temple is full to its capacity, and people are taking very much interest in our philosophy. So I am very much hopeful of this center under the guidance of Sriman Jayananda. If you want to put me in a separate place from the Temple, I would prefer to stay in the Cha- tham Tower. This Tower is situated in the Chatham Square, just on the junction of Chamber Street and Park Road. It is just after finishing the China town. Some- times back, when I was searching a house, and I didn’t yet open any center at 26 Second Avenue, I liked this Chatham Tower very much. But at that time, I had 354 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda no means; neither I have means just now. So if you like to keep me in a nicer place, then please try for it. Otherwise I shall be satisfied to remain in my present place un- der your care. If my apartment is very Noisy, presently, then of course, you will have to find out some place, but it must be nearer to the Temple so that I may attend Temple meetings without delay. The American Mail Lines has verbally promised 10% concession, but we have No written letter. But we were getting free concession from Scindia Navigations; that letter I have got, and am enclosing herewith, keep it in your files. So far the musical instruments are con- cerned: If they pay, you may send to Bos- ton as you suggested; Montreal has already paid for their instrument, $100, but they owe N.Y. $500. In Montreal, who will play? There is no member. San Francisco has no mridanga, their’s has been transferred to L.A. Therefore, they require one mridanga. Yes, you may keep the one formerly intended for Hayagriva; when I go there to N.Y., I will see about it. Do as you think best regarding Jona- than Altman. So far Michael is concerned, he is be- ing forced to take meat, let him attend class, and pray to Krishna for his future release from the difficulties he is experi- encing at home. But so long he has to eat meat, he cannot be initiated. Let him at- tend classes regularly, and render service as much as possible, and Krishna will help him to get out of this dilemma. And when I come to New York, I shall see what is the situation. I am enclosing herewith a letter from Krishna devi which speaks for itself. Please reply her that she cannot take charge of one of our centers because she has violated the regulations of our society. In spite of having her duly married hus- band, she indulged in illicit sex life, so this is willful violation of our rules and regulations. So far her Krishna Con- sciousness activities are concerned, she canexecute nicely wherever she lives, and I have all blessings for her, because the door of Krishna Consciousness is open for everyone, but when one has to take charge of a center, he has to become com- pletely above suspicion. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, N.B. I have received your second letter which I shall reply tomorrow along with your previous note. 68-3-17 San Francisco 12th March, 1968 Buffalo My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated March 5, 1968, with enclosures. (I have come here in San Francisco on the 8th morning of March. Here the Kirtan’s performances are going very nicely; there is good atten- dance in the meeting and dancing in ec- stasy is often exhibited to the tran- scendental pleasure of everyone present. I think S.F. center has been very much sanctified by unalloyed devotional service of the members here. As soon as there are sincere devotees, immediately the situa- tion changes very favorably. So I have read of New York, and I am so pleased with your honest endeavor to open a branch in Buffalo. Those who try to dis- tribute Krishna Consciousness amongst the general mass of people are very much favorite to Lord Krishna and Lord Chaita- nya. So you have all the blessings of Lord Chaitanya for your laudable work in Buf- falo. It doesn’t matter whether there is any future prospect for opening permanent center or not, but to attempt to distribute Krishna Consciousness in that part of the country is very much encouraging. MARCH, 1968 355 I understand that Sriman Lal Goel with his wife is taking interest in this move- ment, and if he is convinced, he can con- duct the classes on our behalf in the future. It is very gratifying to know that at least 30 students are attending twice weekly meetings, and out of them, about 10 are regularly attending. I have read the manifesto printed by you in mimeograph machine, and it is very nicely set up. Regarding your wife: I am very much pleased to learn that your good wife is translating our essays for Germany. I was just thinking of our literatures being trans- lated into German, and I was finding out some of our disciples to do it. Fortunately, by the Grace of Krishna, your wife is able to do this service, and please keep her en- gaged in that way. As soon as one is en- gaged in the service of the Lord, the Lord will reveal Himself to one without any separate endeavor. Krishna Conscious- ness movement simply depends on ser- vice attitude. So please keep her engaged in this work for which she has got natural taste, and let her translate small booklets like Easy Journey, then gradually she may attend all our other books, and eventually Bhagavad Gita. Please offer my thanks and blessings for her in this endeavor. Omkara is the alphabetical representa- tion of Krishna. This representation of Krishna is impersonal, just like His lustre of the Body, Brahman effulgence. Imper- sonalists like to chant Omkara, but we wish to chant His Feature of Pastimes, be- cause His personal feature is the ultimate understanding. Omkara is the symbol of eternity, but there is no bliss and knowl- edge. Om Tat Sat: Tat means the Abso- lute Truth, and Sat means eternal. Omkara is also used denoting address. Om Tat Sat means, oh, the Absolute Truth is Eternal. Shanta rasa means appreciation of the greatness of the Lord, but there is no ac- tive service of the Lord. The land, the grass, the trees, the plants, fruits, or the cows in the transcendental world are sup- posed to be situated in the Shanta rasa. As spiritual beings, they are all conscious of Krishna, but they prefer to appreciate Krishna’s greatness remaining as they are. The next development from Shanta rasa is Dasya rasa, which means volun- tary offering of some service. Next devel- opment is Sakhya rasa, or service in spirit of friendship and well-wisher. The next development is Vatsalya rasa, service as wellwisher and affection. The next devel- opment is Madhura rasa, service, friend- ship, affection and conjugal love.. So in the Madhura rasa, everything is com- plete; there is Shanta rasa, Dasya rasa, Sakhya rasa, Vatsalya rasa, and Madhura rasa. But each and every one of the rasas is complete in itself. A person in Shanta rasa or Sakhya rasa is as good as one in Madhura rasa because in the spiritual worldeverything is absolute. But from the platform of spiritual vision, where there is transcendental discrimination, one can appreciate Madhura rasa as complete as anything. In ther spiritual world there is no such relationship as God as the father. In the material world such conception is appre- ciated very much. In the material world everyone wants to take-from God because the conditioned soul wants to enjoy senses. And the concept of fatherhood is to drag resources from the Supreme. But in the spiritual world there is no question of drawing from the Supreme. Everything there is to serve the Lord, and service is rendered in 5 different rasas or transcen- dental humors as described above. In the transcendental world instead of taking the Lord as father, He is treated as son, be- cause son derives service from the Father, whereas in the material world the father maintains the conditioned souls or sons of God. 356 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda Rupa Goswami’s eternal rasa is conju- gal love. He is one of the associates of Radharani, and he helps Radharani while engaged in the service of Krishna. He is known as Rupamanjari in the spiritual world. Tattvam asi means you are that. You are that, means you are also Brahman. That means qualitatively you are one with the Supreme Absolute. The Mayavadi philosophers interpret this Tattvam asi that the living entity is the same Supreme Absolute Truth. They do not make any difference of quality and quantity, but Vaishnava philosophers are very accurate in their estimation of the Absolute Truth. Therefore, we interpret this Vedic verse as Tattvam asi means that the living entity is qualitatively one, as much as a particle of gold is also gold. Thanking you once more for your very excellent work there, and hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-18 San Francisco 12th March, 1968 New York My Dear Balai, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 3/10/68, and I thank you very much for it. Yes, the wind, the earth, the water, and so forth, all have controlling personalities. Just like there is a sun god, who is in charge of the sun planet; similarly, for each body of wa- ter, for the wind, there are controlling per- sonalities. They are in control of some small part of the material creation, but the ultimate Controller is Krishna. These demigods all are servants of the Supreme Controller. I am very pleased to hear about Krishna’s new throne of gold leaf and vel- vet. I am anxious to come there and see it, along with all you my students there who are carrying on so nicely even in my ab- sence. But you must know that I am al- ways with you all so long you are executing Krishna Consciousness; and I am always receiving good news of the New York Temple so it is very nice that now you have provided Krishna a beauti- ful new throne. So far the Advent Day of Lord Chaita- nya is concerned, I have written a full sug- gestion to Montreal, in which the main points are that we should all observe strict fasting up till moonrise, and at that time, an offering is made to Lord Chaitanya of Ekadasi foods, fruits, peanuts, milk, and so forth. Then, on the next day, Friday the 15th, a full-scale feast is held to celebrate His Advent Day. On the 14th, chanting, reading of Srila Bhaktivinode’s book, Life and Precepts and Chaitanya Chari- tamrita, Introduction to Bhagwatam, may be held all the day in the Temple. Householders may wear dhoties in the Temple, or as they like, but not of the saf- fron color. They may wear white, yellow, or whatever. Outside the Temple they may wear American gentleman’s dress, with Telok, flag, and beads. It is not required to wear dhoties, as this society does not understand, so outside the Temple dress suit is more socially acceptable. If they so desire, for ceremony, they can dress in dhoties for Kirtan. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-19 San Francisco 13th March, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter, undated, and post-dated March 12, 1968. I am so MARCH, 1968 357 obliged to you for your hospitality with which you served me so long I was in Los Angeles; I was so much comfortably situated in spite of my not very good health. Krishna will bless you for your strenuous service single-handedly, rest assured. Please continue your service atti- tude in the same spirit, and Krishna will bless you with all benediction. In the meantime, Mukunda and Janaki have come there, and I hope together you will do service to the Temple to your best capacity. I have got very good impression of the Temple in San Francisco, and both you and Mukunda may bring up the Los Angeles to the same standard. Don’t be de- pressed because there is no sufficient audi- ence at present, but if you continue your service all in cooperation, in very near fu- ture it will be a nice center. Please offer my blessings to Samkarshan das, and Baladeva and his daughter Haridasi, and etc. Today we had avery nice lecture at the San Francisco State College; the atten- dence was very nice, and the meeting was successful, as it was in Los Angeles. They have arranged many other meetings also which I shall attend one after another. Regarding the casting of Sri Sri Radha Krishna: As soon as the statues are fin- ished, I shall send it for casting, at least one pair. And as soon as you receive this statues, please do the needful. If Dayananda has left for Florida, please send me his address there. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-20 San Francisco 16th March, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter dated March 12, 1968. I thank you very much for it, and I am so glad to hear that everything is going well there, and that Jadunandan and John are there helping in so many ways. So far the picture is concerned, Guru- das has recently taken some very nice pho- tographs, and I shall ask him to send some copies to you. Yes, to make posters as you suggest will be very nice, please do it. Please continue to help all the young girls, both in N.Y., and S.F. as well. If they take to following your example of sin- cere service, they will all be advanced in Krishna Consciousness very rapidly. Your example is very nice, using your artistic abilities to serve Krishna, and they may all follow in your footsteps. I think there is no need for coming to S.F., as most of the girls are there, and recently Anapurna dasi has left for Boston, also. She is very nice young girl, and with artistic abilities, so you please help her as she arrives there. Yes, there are two Boar Incarnations; one is reddish, and the other whitish. Baraha is the first, He is reddish just likea boar. The dishwashing occupation is open to anyone who wishes to help. There is no restriction. Also, non-initiates may help in cooking prasadam under the direction of devotees. That is all right. Please keep me informed of the prog- ress of your fine arts department; I am al- ways anxious to hear how they are doing very nicely. Hope you are well, and I hope Pradyumna is being well taken care of, and will be feeling better soon. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-21 San Francisco 17th March, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated March 9, 1968. I have come back to San Fran- cisco on the 8th March, and while I was in 358 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Los Angeles for two months, I received the balance portion of Bhagavad Gita edited by you. I am expecting the fore- word also, but I can understand that it was not yet dispatched. So, when it is pre- pared you can send it to me here in S.F. I am so glad to understand that you are missing the atmosphere of S.F. which you so nicely enjoyed last year, and similarly, I am also missing your company which I enjoyed last year here. Whenever I go to the class, I remember you, how joyfully you were chanting in the Temple, and whistling the bugle so nicely. Whenever I see the cornet lying idle because nobody can play on this particular instrument, I remember Hayagriva Brahmachary im- mediately. So, here the Temple has spiritually im- proved. Whenever there is Kirtan, either morning or evening, immediately there is a different atmosphere by the Grace of Lord Krishna. And all people, both devo- tees and outsiders, begin to dance in ec- stasy. I am very much encouraged by seeing the atmosphere from S.F. Temple, and when you come here you shall see personally how they are nicely executing Krishna Consciousness. I have some lec- tures in the colleges, both in L.A. and S.F., and the other day I delivered lecture in San Francisco State College, and the students enjoyed the atmosphere very much. They heard our Kirtan very atten- tively, and although my lecture was a little terse, on account of our prohibitory regu- lations, still the students heard me very at- tentively. And they stood around me even after the meeting was over. One girl ques- tioned me why I am against meat eating, and she was very satisfactorily replied. Today also, in the morning, I lectured and held Samkirtan in the local WMCA build- ing, and there were small children, almost within 10 years, along with their teachers. And they very patiently enjoyed our com- pany for one hour. All the teachers and students danced and sang with us and the scene was very pleasing. So I am very much hopeful that this movement can be spread all over the whole world if we or- ganize simply the performance of Kirtan, and a little lecture on the principles of Krishna Consciousness. In your last letter you informed me that you are holding class and Kirtan in your college, and I will be glad to know the re- action. You will be pleased also to learn that Rupanuga das Adhikary has gone to Buffalo to open a branch there and his re- port is also very encouraging. Although he has started the class just anew, still there is assembly of 30 students twice ina week classes, and out of them, 10 students are regularly attending and taking part in this movement. There was press interview also with Rupanuga and they have re- ported very nicely in the paper, Buffalo News. I hoped that Kirtanananda Swami would open some branches in many parts of the country after his return from Vrin- daban, but I am sorry that he has left our company. So I am missing also him. But since he is continuing to keep his name, Kirtanananda, which was given by me, I think I have got still some right to say [PAGE MISSING] 68-3-22 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. Your letter of 3/12/68 in hand. The evening twilight first appeared as a beautiful girl to attract the demons but later on turned to be eve- ning twilight. There is no reality in the material beauty. What you think as real that is also unreal because everything ma- terial transforms into matter at the ulti- mate stage. It is the spirit soul who is beautiful and not the matter. I am pleased to learn that Rupanuga is MARCH, 1968 359 fully conscious about our movement and he has full confidence in his spiritual mas- ter. To-day I have received one letter from Hayagriva and it is understood that he is feeling our separation. I have replied him and have asked him to see me when I am in N.Y. Hope you are all well. Please keep in touch with Pradyumna’s surgical opera- tion affairs. Your ever wellwisher 68-3-23 San Francisco’ 18th March, 1968 New York My Dear Devananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 12, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Your sincerity and desire for doing some service for Krishna is very much encour- aging to me. Please go on chanting nicely, and steadily. Chanting 16 rounds is pre- scribed, but you can chant more rounds and hear them very attentively. If you are not satisfied with your cook- ing engagement, tell Brahmananda to give you some other engagement. But it doesn’t look well if you change from one center to another for some convenience. Everywhere service to Krishna is the same, but if you are feeling some incon- venience, then you may inform Brahm- ananda, and get some relaxation by change of duty. Thank you for the dried mango; I am so glad to receive it. I like it very much and please go on sending it every week- and-a-half, or every two weeks. I like very much. I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB My Dear Michael, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter and I thank you very much for it. Yes, by Krishna’s Grace all obstacles have been removed. We all prayed to Krishna that your inconven- iences may be removed, and by Grace of Krishna, they have all been removed, so we feel very much thankful to the Lord. You just remain fixed up in devotional ser- vice, and all impediments that may come will be vanquished by the unlimited po- tency of the Lord. We should have faith in His Power, His Grace, and His Causeless Mercy, Hoping you are well 68-3-24 San Francisco 21st March, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters dated March 14th, 18th, and 19th, and have noted the contents carefully. So far the Chatham Tower is concerned, you may drop the plan, and try to get the two-story house which you mentioned. Please check into it and keep me informed. Yes, it would be very nice for Mr. Kallman to contribute 1000.00 dollars for the printing; please try to encourage that. I shall be expecting to receive the dummy publication which you described in a few days. Youmay keep that bottle of liquid which you mentioned, and when I come there I shall see to it. By Grace of Krishna, Adwaita is being transferred to Bellevue; now try to get him out with the help of the psychiatrist who helped to get out Kirtanananda. That will finalize the matter, but we must find out a way to take permission from the draft board that our institution is a recognized religious institution of Hindu Vedic ori- gin, and we are training students for 360 Letters from Srila Prabhupada preaching God-consciousness, and build- ing up their character by strict moral prin- ciples. Therefore, these students cannot be called for fighting. By temperament they are unfit for fighting, because they are being trained to become perfect Brah- mins. The business of the Brahmins is to teach people spiritual education. Fighting is means for the Kshatriyas. Therefore, we must find out some means for protect- ing our students in future to save them from this unnecessary botheration. You should consult a suitable lawyer in con- nection with this matter, and do the need- ful. We can submit a copy of the remark made by a judge of a court here, in rela- tion to the imprisonment of one of our stu- dents, Upendra das, in which the man said, “Be lenient with this boy, as he be- longs to an established religious organiza- tion, which is doing much to combat against drug-addiction, and to promote the general health and welfare of the young people.” (These are not the exact words, but we are presently awaiting a certified letter from the judge saying in es- sence, this statement.) And as minister of the association, I can give certificate that all my students are ecclesiastical. They are neither fighting men, nor mercantile people, so they cannot be called for fight- ing for unnecessary waste of time and valuable energy. In this connection, the caste system of the Hindus, in which Kshatriyas are trained up for fighting from the very beginning, in martial spirit. They are fighting with young men re- cruited from the sudra class, enforced to fighting; so there is a gulf of difference. Anyway, Krishna will save Adwaita. You just take help of the psychiatrist. For the cable adress, I think ‘‘ISO- KRISHNA” will be very nice. This means the All-Attractive Supreme Personality of Godhead. I think this will be nice, and within the limit of letters. If it is required to reduce the number of letters, the “I” and “H” in Krishna can be deleted—only if necessary, making it become “TSOKRSNA.” So far thosebooks are concerned, I shall see to cutting out the illustrations you mentioned when I come there. I do not remember, but so far I know, they are not very authorized pictures. Please tell Jadurany of this. They were presented to me by the authors in exchange for my pre- senting them with some of my books. But they are not authorized. So far the order of photos in the Teach- ings of Lord Chaitanya is concerned, they should go like this: My photo, Guru Ma- haraj’s photo, Srila Gour Kishore, Srila Bhaktivinode, Lord Chaitanya, and lastly, Lord Chaitanya’s Birthplace. For Lord Chaitanya’s photo, you may use a photo- graph of one of Jadurany’s recent paint- ings of Pancha Tattwa. The other five pictures will be with the reading matter. Two pairs of the kartals may be with Achutananda. The beads has to be sancti- fied, I shall do that when I come there. Keep them until then. For chanting on them, they must be sanctified. There is no need of Krishna devi’s ad- dress. She is here and I have seen her, so the matter is ended. Please send a copy of my Ishopanishad as soon as possible. I believe it is lying in the care of Rayarama. We shall have to ar- range for publishing it in a nice booklet just like the Two Essays, and Easy Jour- ney. Please see about how to do it. It will be nice for our classroom instructions in Krishna Consciousness, in the colleges. We are beginning instructions weekly in San Francisco State College, and there is prospect of having an accredited course to teach beginning next September. This is a very good opportunity. I want to sit down tightly with some as- sistants, and spend the rest of my time translating Srimad Bhagwatam, and other books. And train students to do preaching MARCH, 1968 361 work on the outside. So, from now on, I would like to speak only at very important engagements, and for most engagements, have my students preach. All of you must learn to preach; and for me, my most im- portant preaching work is to finish up the Srimad Bhagwatam. So, please try to make arrangement like this, as it is very important that my books be finished, as soon as possible. I am especially interested in the Samkirtan party, for this purpose, which is understood to be being molded up by Hansadutta. We have got invitation from a Bombay friend for our Samkirtan party, and if Hansadutta’s Samkirtan party is made up then, with whole party we will go first to England, then to Holland, then to Germany, then to Bombay, and make the program right and earnest from now. Those leaves are neem leaves; keep them and when I come there I shall make a preparation of tooth paste. Neem tree is very antiseptic. ISOKRISHNA has got two-fold mean- ing. It means International Society for Krishna Consciousness, and also, that Krishna is the All-Attractive Supreme Personality of Godhead. So it is all-round perfect. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-3-25 San Francisco 22nd March, 1968 My Dear Terry, and associates, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 16th, and I thank you very much for it. I am so much pleased to hear the wonderful news of your Samkirtan meetings in N.J. It is very good. This sort of enterprise is the most valuable spiritual attempt. And I thank you from the core of my heart for doing such a nice thing. Krishna will be pleased upon you, and bestow His Bene- diction. Similarly, we want to open hun- dreds of centers, so that people may take up K.C.—that is our mission. It is an easy process, and appealing, and the highest spiritual realization simultaneously. Please continue your excellent work in Krishna’s service, and when I come to NY, I shall come there to see how nicely things are being carried on. I am happy to hear that you continued to chant despite so many doubts and skep- ticism. That is the process. Even there may be doubts and skepticism, if one con- tinues the chanting process, the doubts will all disappear, and real knowledge will be revealed by the Grace of Krishna. There is the example given of the jaundice patient. He is suffering from disease, and when given sugar-candy, which is the cure, he finds it very bitter and distasteful. But that does not mean the sugar-candy is not very sweet and delicious; it is simply due to his diseased condition that it seems bitter. In order to be cured from his dis- ease, he must take the medicine of sugar- candy, despite the apparently bitter taste, and as he becomes cured, the real sweet taste of the candy is gradually revealed. Similarly, we are diseased, and only if we take to this chanting process may we be cured. Maya may put so many doubts and worthless arguments into our minds, but if we continue the chanting, the curing process will go on, never mind the doubts, and gradually we will get a taste of that sweet nectar of Krishna Nama Sankirtan. That is the process; and you may expalin it to all your friends, so they may under- stand the nature of their doubts and skepti- cism, and be benefitted. Yes, your devotion will grow at ‘“‘dou- bled rates” as you give more and more service to the Supreme Lord. Krishna states in the Bhagavad Gita that the one who is spreading KC is the one most dear 362 Letters from Srila Prabhupada to Him. So, you are doing the most valu- able service to the Lord by introducing your class-fellows and friends to this Samkirtan movement, and therefore, you will feel more and more increase in your devotion to the Lord. Please continue to do like this, and Krishna will be pleased, and you will be always happy in this life, and what to speak of the next. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB 68-3-26 San Francisco 22nd March, 1968 New York My Dear Balai dasi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 19th, along with Ishtagoshte notes, I am always so pleased to see how nicely the Ishtagoshte meetings are being carried on, so I am always anticipating your let- ters, along with Ishtagoshte reports. Thank you very much. Yes, Sri Tulasi is the eternal consort of Krishna, and the most pure devotee, and therefore, the Tulasi plant is worshipped by Vaishnavas. Yes, you may say the prayer to the Spiritual Master 3 times, and also the Namo Brahmanya.. . prayer 3 times, when offering Prasadam. That is very nice to say the mantra 3 times. Also, you may, after offering to the Spiritual Master, offer to Lord Chaitanya by saying the prayer, Namo Maha Badanaya.. . 3 times, and then offer to Krishna thrice. So far the singing of the prayers to the Spiritual Master is concerned, there is no limitation on how many times it is sung. But it should be done three times daily, and morning it is required. Yes, you may say this prayer at noon Prasadam if it is possible, and sing again in the evening. And you may sing other prayers as you learn them also. I am so pleased to hear of the activities of Jadurany and her artist assistants. We require this service, as we require so many pictures. Pictures, books, etc., all we shall sell on world tour with our Samkirtan party. So we require a lot of pictures in stock; and wherever we open our centers, we must have at least Pancha Tattwa picture, Vishnu picture, Samkir- tan painting, and Spiritual Master’s pic- ture, and Radha Krishna painting—they are all required. Therefore, Krishna has sent so many devotees to work on the painting department, so we have to utilize them fully, so their service is fully utilized for advancing in Krishna Consciousness. Thanking you once more for your sin- cere service, and I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB So far Adwaita is concerned, please do not be too much worried, because Krishna will save him. Krishna has prom- ised to always give all protection to His devotees, so you may rest assured that Krishna will take very good care of him. Please confer my blessings to Adwaita, and tell him to keep his faith in Krishna, and not to fear the people imprisoning him. Fear personified cannot remain in the prescence of Krishna. And the author- ities there are simply like wooden dolls, or puppets, in the Hands of the Dance- Master, Krishna. So there is nothing to fear, simply it is to be considered a bother- ation, nothing more. Encourage him to chant continuously, and not to notice the activities of the prison-wardens. ACB MARCH, 1968 363 68-3-27 San Francisco 23rd March, 1969 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Regarding the United Shipping Corporation, I have sent them the necessary 4 copies of in- voice and certificate, and asked them to send one statement of account for our $500. In future, I think we have to select very nice shipping agent, because we have undergone so much botheration this time. Please send one complete list of goods re- ceived. I am enclosing herewith one letter from Pradyumna, and you can let me know what is to be done for his hospital charges. We are increasing our expan- sion, but we have to take account of these emergencies. I have already written you about taking steps for protecting our boys from the draft board; now, when we live together, somebody may fall ill. Now, find some future main source of income for our institution, and main source is publi- cations. So if we can organize a good sales organization, thatis our main hope. Besides that, if the Samkirtan party is nicely organized, we can have demonstra- tion for public. I do not know how far we shall be successful, but we must find out a source of our income. At the present mo- ment, some of the boys are working and practically it is going on under their work- ing strength. Anyway, please think over what is to be done with Pradyumna. I have written also to Hansadutta about the Samkirtan party, and I think our books, paintings, and the Samkirtan party can give us enormous help if we can organize it very nicely. I want therefore a perma- nent residential quarter at New York, so that my personal supervision of these things may go on. For the present, I would like to stay in my apartment at 26 Second Avenue, if cooking for the Temple can be arranged elsewhere. If it is silent and soli- tary, I feel pleasure to live there, better than elsewhere. I shall prepare to start for N.Y. sometimes by the 10th-15th of April. I think by that time the atmosphere in N.Y. will be warm, and I will feel com- fortable. So far Teachings of Lord Chaitanya is concerned, everything has been very en- couraging, and hopefully by the Grace of Lord Chaitanya, it will come out very nicely presented. Govinda dasi has sent the cover picture today by special deliv- ery, and other 5 pictures will be sent later on. For the cover of the book, I think gold paper will be very nice, with the lettering and drawing printed in black ink. Nice gold paper must be available in Japan very cheaply, and they may send us some sam- ples. They can set the type for the title on the cover, and you may give them some suggestion, and maybe see their samples. So far inking of the lettering and drawing, no colored ink, it is not very nice. Please do it all very nicely, as you have done so nice service for my books’ publication. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-28 San Francisco 23rd March, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 20, 1968, regarding your illness. So long we have got this material body, the miseries will be coming and going, simply we have to tolerate them and try to make advance- ment in Krishna Consciousness as best we can. I am forwarding your letter to Brahmananda for taking care of your hos- pital charges; I do not know just what ar- rangements can be made, but Brahman- anda will think how to take care of it. 364 Letters from Srila Prabhupada You mention that you have enclosed the transliteration work of Srimad Bhagwatam, but I do not find it here. You may have missed it. Anyway, I am happy to hear you are steadily studying Sanskrit and reading Srimad Bhagwatam—that is very good. I shall be praying to Krishna for your steady recovery and continual advance- ment in Krishna Consciousness, and hope you will be feeling physically stronger when you come to see me in New York. Please keep me informed how you are feeling. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-29 San Francisco 23rd March, 1968 New York My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 7, 1968, and I thank you very much for your encouraging news of the Samkirtan party. Please confer my blessings upon your very good wife, Himavati, and I am so pleased that she can sew nicely, and make the costumes for the Samkirtan party. It is very wonderful that you have secured al- ready some engagements for our party, and it is indication that it will be great suc- cess. It has just begun, and already there are so many engagements. I am so glad that you have organized the Samkirtan party, and it is very satisfactorily pro- gressing. And at present, I am counting upon you more than anything else, be- cause my program is, after going to New York for some days, then I shall go to Bos- ton, to Buffalo, and to Montreal, and I shall take the Samkirtan party with me, and make an experiment how we get re- sponse. I shall then proceed with Samkir- tan party to England, then to Holland, to Germany, and to any other countries, an- d/or directly to Bombay. One of my Bom- bay friends has written me as following: “I am pleased to receive your letter dated 3rd March, 1968, and have noted the con- tents. We arealready doing Kirtan on Sun- days and that is a part of our curriculum. This can be made extensive by your team of followers from America arriving in In- dia. The best place for continuous Samkirtan is Brindavan. Please let me know when you would cometo India, with the devotees, so that we may arrange a re- ception and have a suitable program. Yours sincerely, Hari Krishnadas Ag- garwal.”’ So, if we can reach Bombay with our Samkirtan party, and as promised by my friend, some Indians join us, then we shall make an extensive tour of India with the party, and we shall invite all kinds of religionists to join us. The Indian govern- ment is particularly secular government, and if we can present unified form of Krishna Consciousness—one God, Krishna; one scripture, Bhagavad Gita; one mantra, Hare Krishna; and one work, His service, then certainly we shall get very good encouragement from Indians also. My future contemplation is to have tours all over the world for 6 months, and sit down in a nice place for the balance 6 months, for training boys and girls as well as editing our publications. You consult with Brahmananda and he may consult with Mr. Kallman how this program may be given real shape. But I think this pro- gram will be solid one for propagating our Krishna Consciousness all over the world. And in spite of New York City’s so many faults, I have got a natural inclina- tion to make my headquarters in N.Y.C. Most probably I am going to get my perma- nent visa, from your government, and in that case, I want a very nice place to stay in N.Y., and make it my permanent head- quarters for editorial office, as well as training Samkirtan party and preachers. MARCH, 1968 365 So far the advertising is concerned, you can follow the example of the en- closed advertisement, which is very nice. I hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-30 San Francisco 23rd March, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 20, 1968, and I thank you for it very much. I am happy to hear you have finished Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and it is all turning out very encouraging. Brahm- ananda has done nicely both the Gita and TLC, now he has to make sales organiza- tion and that credit is awaiting him. You should take BTG as your life and soul. Your work for BTG is first and fore- most above all. If you do not find any time for other things, there is no objection, but I want to see that you make BTG a suc- cessful magazine like Life magazine or Il- lustrated Weekly of India. Iam very much ambitious of the progress of the paper, and you can use your discretion how to do it. You are at liberty to do it with full power of attorney. So far discussions of political affairs in BTG, it is not a very good sug- gestion. But if you can present political affairs in spiritual light, as I wrote some articles in the original BTG in the matter of political divisions of India, and catas- trophies thereof. That requires a very thorough understanding of the whole situation, and if you can do this, it will be a great service. I wanted therefore a com- bined editorial board. Unfortunately, you have to do everything yourself. For this work I think you will have to invite coop- eration from others who may help you. Anyway, BTG must be improved to the fullest extent, because it is the backbone of our society. Think over it, and do it nicely as far as possible, and if necces- sary, youcan stopany other activities. But people like your lectures also, and I hope you aredelivering your nice lectures in the classes. For the time being, you stop thinking of Srimad Bhagwatam, and we will make plan when I meet you in N.Y. It is very nice that you are preparing a book on the life of Lord Chaitanya. Also, if you can get the Ishopanishad printed that is very nice. Part of it is in the original BTG, and part is manuscript there. As for Brahma Samhita, I am not working on it at the present moment, but I have thought of it. But I will see to it later on. So far BTG is concerned, if Goursun- dar is not able to help in this matter, you can take help from the other artists who have been working in cooperation with Ja- durany for now. You can suggest to them and I am certain they will be able to do it. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-31 San Francisco 23rd March, 1968 United Shipping Corporation 14/2, Old China Bazar Street Room No. 18, Calcutta 1. Dear Sirs, In reference to your letter No. F-38/I- 138, dated March 18, 1968, addressed to my New York office, I beg to send you herewith four copies of invoices, as re- quested by you, with certificate of state- ment that previously I did not import any books against Rs. 33,705/86. Please let me know exactly what is the procedure for exporting books from In- dia, because I have to do it periodically. And unfortunately, due to ignorance of the procedure, both on your part and on our 366 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda part, so much botheration is undergone. For want of knowing the procedure, we had to pay the freight charges here also, in spite of sending you in advance $500, (Ref: Your letter F/38/I-14, of January 11, 1968.) Kindly therefore let me know the exact procedure to be followed in fu- ture, because books are being printed in Delhi and shortly, we shall have to get them here in New York. Kindly therefore send the exact procedure, and on hearing from you, we shall ask our Delhi agent to book further goods. Also, please send mea statement of ac- count of $500 sent by us, and the balance which is still with you. Please also let me know, besides the books sent by the Insti- tute of Oriental Philosophy for shipping, whether some loose Bhagwatams are still lying there. When I was in Calcutta, I sent some loose Bhagwatams. I do not know whether you have sent them or not. Please enlighten me. Kindly send the statement of account as soon as possible. Thanking you in an- ticipation. Yours faithfully, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-32 San Francisco 26th March, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Jadunandan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 21, 1968, and may inform you that the horri- ble scene in the hospital is certainly ghastly. But we should at the same time know that this ghastly scene is in the mat- ter of bodily concept of life. This is Ma- ya’s illusion, and although the spirit soul has nothing to do with this horrible af- fairs, but due to absorption of one’s con- sciousness in the body, one has to suffer the consequences of bodily identification. So far we are concerned, we shall neither be sympathetic or apathetic in the matter of such bodily concept of life. Of course, it is quite natural to become sympathetic when one’s body is put into such horrible condition, but if you are firmly convinced that this body is separate from the soul, then we may not be distracted. That is not possible of course in the preliminary stage, but when we shall be in a transcen- dental position not to be disturbed ever by such a horrible scene, then our position is secure. The suffering of the man and the sympathy of the other man, both are cen- tered on the body. But this we have to un- derstand by knowledge. Then such horrible condition of body won’t be dis- turbing to us. That is the position of lib- eration. It doesn’t mean that we shall not be sympathetic with one who is suffering, but we should always remember that such sufferings are due to the bodily concept of life. As you stated, that you simply want to leave the material world and be with Krishna, that is the best solution, rather than taking account of how things hap- pened that you came here. Like that our best occupation is to get out of the scene by constantly chanting Hare Krishna, and be engaged in the transcendental service of Lord Krishna. I am very happy to learn that you are rendering a nice service to Krishna by cooking for him and distributing prasa- dam to others. The association of devotees is the only solace for our existence. New York might have been a little busier than Boston, but so long it is under the guid- ance of an experienced devotee, the af- fairs in both the cases are all right. The tendency for solitude is a kind of reaction on our past material activities, but soli- tude is not very good for a neophyte. Maya is always trying to attack us, and as soon as she finds some opportunity she tries to inflict her poisonous effects. The best thing is therefore not to seek solitude in MARCH, 1968 367 the beginning but to remain in the midst of pure devotees so that even there is attack of Maya, their association will protect us. If you are, however, always busy in the matter of preaching work that is very nice. But to remain alone in a solitary place for a new man is not advisable. Vrindaban is of course, very impres- sive for devotional service, but that also is not advisable to remain alone. I am trying to get a nice place at Vrindaban and when the place is there, I shall personally be present with some devotees, and appreci- ate the atmosphere of Vrindaban. So long we are engaged in devotional service with proper guidance certainly we are always in transcendental position, and transcen- dental position is unlimited, it doesn’t matter whether you are in Vrindaban or U.S.A. But still, for everyone, Vrinda- ban’s atmosphere is very sweet. But so long we have not completely freed our material attachment, even Vrindaban res- idence becomes uncongenial. Just like in the case of Kirtanananda, it was so hap- pened. This seeking for solitude is simply a reaction on our past nonsense activities, oritis negation, voidism. Our sound posi- tion is always being engaged in service of Krishna, that is the positive standing. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Satsvarupa, This morning I have sent you one note of the tape regarding Pradyumna’s hospi- tal bill. I think I shall be able to send you $500.00 from this centre. I understand that Hospital bills are also paid by small installments. We have to make arrang- ment for future emergency and I wish to organize a central board for such manage- ment. For me it is not possible to look af- ter the administrative affairs. Some of you should form a committee for this kind of management. In India the Brahmacharis collect alms and subscription But here it is not possible to do like that: therefore all Brahmacharis may work at least part time so that our financial difficulty may be minimized. Yours, etc. ACB 68-3-33 San Francisco 26th March, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am sorry I am delayed to reply your letter dated March 14, 1968, which I received over a week ago. I am very glad that you are re- pentant even for some action which is not sanctioned by me. This attitude is very nice and improves one in progressing on the path of devotional service. The Rakhi Bandhan cermeony observed by you un- der instruction of Prasad isn’t approved by our Vaishnava rituals. Of course, such ceremony is observed among the Hindu community as a socio-religious conven- tion. But in our Vaishnava community there is no such observance. Now, forget the incidence, and in future don’t be mis- led by some unauthorized person. Our next ceremony is Lord Ramachandra’s Birthday, on the 7th of April. It should be observed in the same way as Lord Chaita- nya’s Appearance Day, namely, fasting up to evening and then accept Prasadam, and all our ceremonies should be performed with continuous Kirtan, of Hare Krishna, Hare Rama. That will make all our func- tions successful. Anniruddha is here and he is waiting for the statues of Radha and Krishna which is being expedited by Goursundar, and most probably he will be starting back 368 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda for L.A. on Friday morning. How Woom- apati is feeling there? I have not heard anything from him. In the meantime I have received one letter from Hayagriva, and he was anxious to come to San Fran- cisco during his summer vacation. In meantime, I have also received one letter which is very depressing from Hrishi- kesh. I understand that he has been in- duced by Bon Maharaj to be initiated by him for giving him shelter, and this fool- ish boy has accepted his inducement. This isn’t very happy news, and I have replied Hrishikesh’s letter in the following words, which please take note, and in the future, we shall be very cautious about them. “My Dear Hrishikesa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of March 14, 1968, and I am greatly sur- prised. I am greatly surprised for Bon Maharaj’s initiating you in spite of his knowing that you are already initiated by me. So it is deliberate transgression of Vaishnava etiquettes and otherwise a de- liberate insult to me. I do not know why he has done like this but no Vaishnava will approve of this offensive action. I very much appreciate your acknowledgement of my service unto you and you will al- ways have my blessings, but you must know that you have committed a great blunder. I do not wish to discuss on this point more elaborately now, but if you are desirous to know further about it, I shall be glad to give you more enlightenment. Mukunda is not here. He has gone to L.A. Hope you are well.” If Hrishikesh writes you letter I think you may avoid reply. I do not approve both Hrishikesh’s and Bon Maharaj’s this offensive action. Hoping you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please try to organize a very nice temple in L.A. 68-3-34 San Francisco 27th March, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 28, 1968, along with enclosures of transliter- ation made by Pradyumna, and I thank you very much. Regarding your letter dated 17th March, it was within the tape received and I have just opened it. There is no question of changing Boston pro- gram. I am engaged here up to 8th of April, after that I shall be free to go to New York. I do not know what is the pro- gram in N.Y., because I have not received any program of New York. So ask Brahmananda to send me letter when I shall go to N.Y. I can start for N.Y. after 8th of April any day. So make your pro- gram conjointly but for me I am free after 8th from San Francisco. I have already sent you one note about Pradyumna’s hos- pital bill, and as soon as I hear from you, I shall arrange to send you $500 from my personal book fund. I am told by some of my students here that it is very easy to pay the bills by small installment payments, and if that arrangement can be made you may see to it, if it is possible. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-35 San Francisco 28th March, 1968 Montreal My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your recent letter, and I am so glad to receive notes of your different Kirtan functions. So far preaching work is con- cerned, I am expecting both you and Janardan to be very powerful preachers in MARCH, 1968 369 the near future. Both of you are sincere souls, sincere servitors of Lord Krishna, and He will be very kind to bestow His Blessings upon you. As you go on preach- ing you will become expert. In every sphere of activity the more a man be- comes active, he becomes more and more expert. Your humble attitude is very praiseworthy. You keep yourself in that very humble mentality and Krishna will be very pleased upon you. All three of you are very sincere servitors, and you all should become very good preachers, Janardan, yourself, and Shivananda, so that this Krishna Consciousness move- ment will be spread all over the world. It is very good news for me that you are regularly chanting your 16 rounds; try to increase the rounds, but don’t decrease. Yes, if you can inject this Krishna Con- sciousness to the young children, it will be a great service to the humanity and to the Lord. So far the Advent Day of Lord Rama Chandra, it should be celebrated as Lord Chaitanya’s Birthday was done. Fasting up to evening, and then take prasadam, and chant Hare Krishna whole day, and be engaged in reading and chanting off and on, chant for some time, then read for some time, then again have Kirtan, and so on, throughout the day. If you have not got a Ramayana, then you can read Bhagavad Gita or Srimad Bhagwatam, that is all right. Yes, a non-initiate can work under the direction of a devotee in the kitchen. So Eric can certainly work under your direc- tion in the kitchen for distribution of pra- sadam. That is very nice. Your are saying that you are a fool, and I shall be glad to get a number of fools like you. I want such transcendental fools and not material intellectuals. May Krishna bless you. I shall be glad to know what specific function you want to perform, and I un- derstand you are going to McGill for per- forming Kirtan. That is very nice engagement. That is the only specific function for everyone of us. I think you shall try your best to perform Kirtan suc- cessfully, and that is the greatest specific function for you. And you can teach some of your God-brothers-and-sisters the art of cooking, which you know best. Yes, I am going to N.Y. after the 8th (probably on the 9th) of April and I shall let you know when I am exactly reaching there. Janardan wanted to see me in New York, and I shall be glad to see you both there before I go to Montreal. I wish to go to Montreal after the month of May after I finish my engagement in Boston. That is very good proposal, to get In- dian Pavillion for our Kirtan program. Please try for it. And we can exhibit some of our paintings, and pictures. When I go to Montreal, I shall take selected pictures from Jadurany and as well as some of the pictures by Goursundar and Govinda pub- lished in our BTG. Jadurany has now be- come a nice preacher. I have report from Satsvarupa that she gives lectures very nicely. If we open a pavillion I shall take Jadurany also at that time, so she will de- liver nice lectures. I shall probably be coming there to Montreal by first week of June. Hope youare all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-3-36 San Francisco 29th March, 1968 My Dear Nandaroni and Dyananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your nice letter of March 25, 1968, and the kind sentiments expressed therein. I am very happy to learn that you have a nice place in Florida, and you are 370 Letters from Srila Prabhupada feeling comfortable and your little Chan- dra is enjoying the sun and the atmo- sphere. Chandra’s name is quite nice; you can simply add another word to make it become Chandramukhi, which means, face resembling the moon. So sometimes the associate Gopies are are also ad- dressed like that because all of the Gopies are transcendentally beautiful. I am very glad that you have invited me to Florida prior to my going to Bahamas. So far we have not received any letter from Baha- mas, so my Florida program for the time being, is suspended. If I go however, to the Bahamas, in the meantime certainly I shall go to your place, and I shall inform you beforehand. But shortly I am visiting New York, and from there I shall go to Boston, then I may go to Montreal; this is the present program. But at the same time, I am seeking a place which will be both conducive to my health and com- fortable. I understand that Florida is just prototype of Indian climate, like Bombay or elsewhere there. And I shall go, once, just to see how does it suit me. And from New York, it is nearer than San Fran- cisco. I cna understand your feeling the ab- sence of devotees. The best thing will be that you practice chanting, both husband and wifetogether, and Krishna may send some friends, who may also take part in the chanting. We have to create the atmo- sphere of Krishna Consciousness, and thus creat devotees also. I therefore advise you to begin classes as usual, morning and evening, sitting together, husband and wife, in the front of Krishna’s picture, and chant Hare Krishna and read Srimad Bhagwatam. When I was in Los Angeles, Iasked Dyananda to speak, and I was very glad that he speaks very nicely. So he cna speak, also, in the class, and if there is none else there, he can speak to you. So don’t feel lonely. Try to understand Krishna Consciousness mutually, and this will give you transcendental pleasure. Regarding your manner of behavior with your parents who are not in Krishna Consciousness; I may inform you that you should treat four different classes of men in four different ways. A devotee shoud love God and God’s devotees. A devotee should make friendship with devotees. A devotee should try to enlighten innocent persons, and a devotee should reject op- posite elements. As father and Mother they should be offered proper respect ac- cording to social custom, but you cannot accept their non-Godly instructions. Best thing is, to avoid misunderstanding, to re- main silent without any affirmation or ne- gation of their instructions. We should try to keep our friendship with everyone in the world, but we cannot sacrifice the principles of Krishna Consciousness on being employed by some relative of this world. Don’t let them know that you do not approve your parents instructions, but at the same time you should be very care- ful in dealing with them. If you object to their instruction and let them know it, then they will feel sorry, sad. Please keep me informed of your ac- tivities ther, as I am always very glad to hear from you both. Hope you are all three doing well. Your ever wellwisher, ACBS. 68-3-37 San Francisco 30th March, 1968 My dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I was just thinking about you since you de- parted from this place and was anxious to get your letter, and I am very glad to receive it. By Krishna’s Grace you are finding everything favorable, and I hope gradually you will find the atmosphere more favorable. I understand in New MARCH, 1968 371 York it is still raining and little cold, therefore I am extending my stay here in San Francisco, for a few days more. We had many engagements in radio and television and similarly we are going to have more similar engagements. Here the kirtan performances are going on, as nicely, and people are taking interest in them. The Radha Krishna statues prepared by Goursundar have been dispatched to Los Angeles through Aniruddha, and they are going to be cast in yellow brass. If one pair is successful then we shall get many pairs and one of the pairs shall be installed in your Santa Fe temple. Please don’t feel lonely. krishna is always with you and I shall pray for you and to Krishna also that you may make progress more and more in this faith- ful discharge of duties in Krishna Consciousness. Thanking you once more. Your ever well-wisher, ACB APRIL 68-4-1 San Francisco 2nd April, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters dated march 20, 25, 26, and I thank you very much for them. I am glad to hear that the lawyer and psychiatrist are going to help with Ad- waita, and I am praying Krishna for his safety. We are awaiting to receive the judge’s statement, and when we secure it, I shall send it to you Today I have received your dummy book, sent by Dai Nippon for sample, and it is very nice. I shall keep it with me, and bring it with me when I come to N.Y. I have written the preface, title page, dedication, and photo captions for Teach- ings of Lord Chaitanya, and am sending herewith. Please take care of it as need be. The photos will appear at the front on the book. And the illustrations will appear at various intervals throughout the book, ac- cording to the text. Please inform me if still you do not understand about this. The mridanga has been duly received some days ago, and it is a very nice one; the Kirtans here are very nice, with so many outsiders, as well as devotees, danc- ing in ecstasy. Yes, please have Rayrama finish the necessary on Transcendental Meditation as soon as possible, so that it can be printed and distributed. I am very much pleased about the activities of that boy Terry, and you please keep me informed of further developments in Atlantic City. Yes, it is right that the community mem- bers should support the center if there is to be one poened there. Yes, that rock is saffron dye; you can keep it there. It can be used to dye the Ja- pamala bags if you like. Regarding my departure for New York: Reservations are being made on Flight 14, American Airlines, on April 17th, to arrive in N.Y. at 4:45 p.m. from India. My ticket is already for American Airlines, so you please refund the prepaid ticket you sent for United Airlines, and send the value in postal money order to Goursundar, in the name of Gary McElroy, so that he can see to purchasing two student fares with discount cards. Please expedite the matter as it is very im- portant, so that we can come together in one party. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami San Francisco 2nd April, 1968 68-4-1 New York My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 28, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I am pleased to hear that you are devoting yourself to the work on Back To God- head, and it is all right by me if you dis- continue the articles on Haridas Thakur by Professor Sannyal. I know it is difficult to read because it is so presented in a scholarly manner, therefore it was not very much sold. 374 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda There is no need of sending the Isho- panishad here; I shall be in N.Y. in 2 weeks, we can discuss it at that time. So far my name is concerned, there is no need of adding Tridandi Goswami, but simply have it as A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, as it is already done in my other ‘books, it will be continued. I made the ti- tle page sent herewith, and you will see it. You have to make the contents page for TLC. Ihave not got any copy of the book, neither it is possible to mark page num- bers until we get press copy from the printer. But table of contents page is nec- essary, so please see to it. I do not like for Sri Bhaktivedanta Swami, A. C. Bhaktive- danta Swami is shorter, and nicer. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-3 San Francisco 2nd April, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 19th, 1968, along with copies of Srimad Bhagwatam and I thank you very much. The astronomical calculation is that every 3 years, 1 month is added, so the year in which 1 month is added, that is always calculated as consisting of 13 months. Otherwise, generally it is 12 months in a year. At present I am keeping the copies as it is, and I shall see again and do the necessary corrections. Iam very glad to see the Boston temple photos; and it gives me a nice idea. Offer Pradyumna my blessings and congratu- late him on his coming back from the hos- pital. Please take care of him as best you can. You have not said anything how his hospital bills has to be paid. I have already written to you that if need be, then I can pay something from my book fund. Oth- erwise the bills may be paid by install- ment, as it is learned from here. I am going to N.Y. on the 17th of April, and I think I shall have to attend some meeting in the Philadelphia University on the 25th, and then I shall be free to go to Bos- ton, and you can make your programs ac- cordingly. I am very glad that Jadurany is prepar- ing signs on account of my visits there. Please offer my blessings to Jadurany, Pradyumna, Jadunandan, Jai Govinda, and others who are there. The boy of the name John, who was sometimes in Boston, he came here to meet me. I asked him to stay in the temple, but he’s not in the temple, nor I have seen him again. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-4 3rd April, 1968 My dear Satswarupa, Accept my blessing. I am in due re- ceipt of your letter of 4/1/68 and I am glad that you have solved the hospital bill of Pradyumna. I am so glad to learn that he is taking part in Istogosti. His answers are very much intelligent. I have fixed up date for going to N.Y. on the 17th. One thing you may inform all devotees that Maya cannot touch a pure devotee: When you find a devotee is supposed in difficulty it is not the work of Maya but it is the work of the Lord by His Personal in- ternal energy. The Pandava’s tribulation in so many ways, Lord Ramchandra’s de- parture to the forest, His wife the Godess of Fortune’s being kidnapped by Ravan, Lord Krishna’s death being caused by the APRIL, 1968 375 arrow of a hunter, Thakur Haridasa’s be- ing canned in 22 market or Lord Jesus Christ being crucified are all acts of the Lord personally. We cannot always under- stand the intricacies of such incidences. Sometimes they are enacted to bewilder persons who demons. You should there- fore discuss in the Istogosti from current reading matters from B.G. or S.B. We should only try to understand everything from the standard of devotional service. It is stated clearly in the B.G. that any one who is cent per cent engaged in the ser- vice of the Lord is transcendentally situa- ted and the influence of Maya has no more any action on such body. The Lord and His pure devotees are always beyond the range of Maya’s action. Even though they appear like action of Maya, we should un- derstand their action of Yogamaya or the internal potency of the Lord. My blessings for you all I am feeling alright. Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-5 San Francisco 6th April, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 29th of March, and I have noted the contents care- fully. Your kind sentiments are very much appreciated by me, and I thank you very much for them. Allen Ginsberg and Denise Levertov’s appreciation, they are all nonsense, but in both the appreciations there is little Substance—that Allen Ginsberg has Praised my activities and has chanted Hare Krishna. But the other one is still more rascaldom, but she has appreciated my students’ behavior. That means indi- rectly she has appreciated our movement. If you think their names will actually in- crease the sale of the book, and MacMil- lan also thinks so, then never mind, you can add their appreciation. So far their study of Bhagavat Gita is concerned, that is completely nil. Best thing is we shall do it personally when I goto N.Y. So far the quotation by the late minister Shastri is concerned, that statement is printed up in the leaflet with picture on it; you know the one, where he is receiving the Bhagwatam from me. He was very much respectful, and met me three times. He was to help me in so many ways, but he died; he was my friend. In the beginning on the Srimad Bhagwatam volumes there are some different appreciations written by some influential Indian gentlemen. Hanuman Prasad Poddar also has written several letters. I will enclose one copy for you of a more recent letter, and also some other letters. The enclosed Acknowledgement should be placed with or after the Preface, for Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. Iam glad to hear you are handling Pra- dyumna’s hospital situation but it is al- ready settled, don’t worry about it. The engagements sound very nice, and espe- cially it is good if they pay us. We are not cheap, we are distributing bonafide pro- cess, so for travelling far distance they should especially pay us something. For television we should have at least one hour appearance; this 15 or 20 minutes, and with nonsense questions by the inter- viewer is not very good. We should be given time for Kirtan, and for lecture. That will be best. And if you can secure some payment from each place we visit, that will be very nice. I am pleased to hear that Damodara is returning; please treat him kindly and en- courage him in all respects. So far the shipping is concerned, try to get a state- ment of account fromthem, as I think they 376 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda still have some of our money from the last business transaction. Hoping you are well, and I am looking forward to again being with you. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Mridangas we can directly order from Dwarkin. Please let me know how many mridangas we may require. We are going to N.Y. on the 17th by American (7?) Flight-9.A.M. 68-4-6 San Francisco 8th April, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated April 2, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. So far the 9 blocks are concerned, I do not mind a long walk, if it is flat land and not hills. Here I am walking at least 2 miles daily voluntarily, so if the house is nice, you can keep it. If a car is available, from New York, then that will be very nice, otherwise, I can walk. So far as devotees are concerned, if there is only one toilet room, then not more than 2 devotees can remain with me. I must have a separate si- lent place; if there was no noise, all the six rooms could be filled up with devotees. For my personal service I require only one. So you can make arrangements in that way. Whenever there is need of my lecture, I am always prepared to serve; it doesn’t matter whether big or small. Probably as _you are making fine arrangements, many will come to the Temple to hear me, so in that case, I must come. Best thing will be to see people in the class, not in my pri- vate apartment. Lecturing or meeting must be done in the classroom, that’s all. If the two girls, Ekayani and Sudar- sana, want to be engaged in drawing for helping BTG, let them do so. The simple thing is they must be engaged in this artis- tic work. It is very nice that they want to occupy in every spare moment with their artwork, it is very laudable, and it means they are anxious to serve. So I am also awaiting to see them very eagerly, and see how nice they are. Yes, the Pancha Tattwa pciture is stan- dard, no need of changing. Pancha Tattwa belongs to Nabadwip and it is authentic. In Vrindaban, there is Radha-Krishna, that you have got enough pictures of, and you have got picture of Radha Madan Mo- han Temple. When you go to Vrindaban, you can take pictures of important places; wait for those days when I shall accom- pany you in all the important places of Vrindaban. You are already a great artist. You don’t want to become a great artist to sat- isfy the senses of the public. If your present paintings are not acceptable to the general public, I do not mind; they are fools. You continue trying your best to make your pictures as far they can be nice looking, but not to satisfy the senses of the rascal public. Yesterday I have been in a Unitarian Church and there I saw two pic- tures of only logs and bamboos, and I was explained by our great artist Govinda dasi that these are modern abstract arts. Any- way I couln’t see in them nothing but com- bination of logs and bamboos. There was nothing to impel my Krishna Conscious- ness. So, if you want to be a great artist in that way, I will pray that Krishna may save you. Anyway, if the public doesn’t buy, we don’t mind. Why you are anxious for sell- ing? We shall distribute them to devotees without any price. If our things have no market in the sense gratification society that does not mean we are going to change our principles. We are meant for satisfy- ing Krishna, not anybody’s senses. That should be the principle of our life. In this connection I may remark that you have sent one picture of Narada Muni which I APRIL, 1968 377 ——SS— eS ee understand was copied from some so- called great artist, but Narada Muni’s body appears to be very sensuous. He was a first class Brahmachary. He cannot have such a sensuous body. So you will do well not to work from the so-called well known artists. But you should follow exactly the descriptions of the scriptures. The picture of Narada Muni which you painted in N.Y. in my presence was very nice and good looking, but this picture here doesn’t appeal to me. Better not to worry about this sort of technique and style. Anyway whenever I come there to N.Y. we can dis- cuss all this as you suggested. Hoping you are feeling well, Iam Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated April 2, 1968, and I hope by this time you have been checked by the doctor. I shall be glad to know how you are making progress, and I am anxious that you are still feeling pains. I am glad to know that proper care is being taken, and you are not going up any stairs, that is very nice. Your endeav- ors to learn Sanskrit is very encouraging. We want somebody in our society to know Sanskrit well enough for reading, not to be a great scholar, but just enough as- needed. So far the hospital bill, Krishna will help you to repay it. So do not be toomuch concerned over it. Please keep me in- formed of your progress. Your ever well-wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Did you send a copy of Bhagwatam transliteration to India as advised by me previously? ACB 68-4-7 San Francisco 9th April, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated April 5, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I am very glad that you are taking responsi- bility for Krishna’s sake, this is advance- ment of Krishna Consciousness. Krishna is full in Himself. He can exert His energy to do anything wonderful, but still He presents Himself as unable to do so. Just like the Battlefield of Kurukshetra, He said all these men are already dead by my arrangement, none of them are going back home to live, the plan is already settled. And Arjuna was supposed to take respon- sibility and the credit of being victorious. Krishna is so kind, He does everything, but He gives the credit to His sincere dev- otee. So the more you take responsibility, Krishna is pleased on you. I am very glad you are feeling such responsibility and Krishna will bless you. Please work combinedly with respect to develop a very nice Temple, and Mu- kunda has the transcendental ambition to construct our own temple there, and try to cooperate with him. Stop the idea of cast- ing for the present, unless we see one pair nicely made, we cannot order 17 pairs. If actually he has made such statues nicely, never mind in other forms, made of yel- low brass, I shall be glad to see it. There are two kinds of dissolution. One is when Brahma goes to sleep, and another is when Brahma dies. When Brahma goes to sleep, the highest plane- tary system does not dissolve, the lower planetary systems, beginning from heav- enly planets downwards, everything is dissolved. And when the day comes out, they are again created. When the living entities enter into Brahma, or into the Body of Narayan, they keep their own spiritual body, that is very small, 378 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 1/10,000 of tip of hair, and when there is again material creation, they manifest again with different kinds of body. Just like a man sleeps at home without any dress, and when he goes out to work, he dresses himself. So similarly in creation, there is different kinds of bodies for work- ing, and whenever there is no creation they remain in their own spiritual body sleeping. No, there is no complete annihi- lation at the end of Kali yuga, there may be some disturbances, but not complete an- nihilation. There are thousands of Kali yugas in every day of Brahma, and they come and go just like seasonal changes. For dishes, best thing is everyone who is eating Prasadam should wash his plate. Otherwise, one man has to do so many dishes. So even the guests should also wash their dishes, that is the system in the Temple; not leave one man to do it. Milk and salt should never be mixed, it is improper, and will cause leprosy. But salt can be mixed with yogurt. As I am leaving on the 17th, please try to send the kit before then, otherwise you send to N.Y. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-8 San Francisco 9th April, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated March 29, 1968, and am very much appreciating it. Please do all your nice proposals, do it ec- onomically and save everything for Krishna. Yes, it is very good idea to build a nice Temple for Krishna, apply all en- ergy for Krishna. How one is successful in his work is tested by whether or not Krishna is satisfied. The Impersonalists cannot enjoy this bliss of how to satisfy Krishna. They make Krishna dead, so they will remain dead, never to under- stand Krishna. They cannot understand. No, the Immigration dept. has not given any hint, but from the first hint for- merly, it was to take 5 or 6 months, so we have to wait patiently and let us see the results. I asked Mrs. Thompson, but she said it is difficult to say exactly how long it will take. : It is very good news that Kirtan and all is going on nicely, that is our life and soul. And it will make us advanced. We have held so many meetings here. One at Oak- land Library, and also at some Unitarian churches. They very much appreciated our presentation. Last night we had one lecture at Stanford University; it was not as good as last year, but not bad, the stu- dents all danced and made some contribu- tion, and bought our literature. At one Unitarian church on Sunday we sold $20.00 of literature. And in N.Y. we have news that in the park many people are joining in, and they are collecting very nicely. We are trying to purchase one house here, and most probably your S.F, branch will have its own house very soon. We are not interested in having our own house, but we should always remember, why Krishna should remain in a rented house? Although everything belongs to Him, still our energy should remain em- ployed so that we can have many temples all over the country. I have asked quota- tions from India about brass statues 24” high, and unless I get the quotations you can stop for now the casting. But if possi- ble, I may see a sample of his work. Achyutananda and Harivilas have in- formed me that Hrishikesh has taken the step as a matter of diplomacy, but he will come back again when I come back to In- dia. I am not astonished for his behaviour, but I am sorry for my God-brother’s APRIL, 1968 379 behaviour. He is a neophyte and sohe may commit so many mistakes, but Bon Ma- haraj should not have committed such mistake. It is not approved by Vaishnava etiquettes. Hoping you are both well. Your ever-wellwisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. How is Janaki? Please offer blessings to her as also to Valadeva his family, Woomapati and Sankarsan. shall be glad to hear from them. ACB 68-4-9 San Francisco 9th April, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated 4/6/68, and have noted the contents. So far your being given work, there is no need for you to feel concern; you are al- ready helping on Srimad Bhagwatam, and permanently you can do so. So you are certainly included as worker and editor for Srimad Bhagwatam already. Certainly we are not going to say these things about the negro people pub- licly; we have no distinction between black or white, or demon or demigod, but at the same time, so long as one is de- mon or demigod, we have to behave in the proper way. Just like Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu; He had no distinction between a tiger and a man. He was so powerful that He could convert even a tiger to dance. But so far as we are concerned, we should not imitate and go to some ti- ger and try to make him dance! But still, tiger is equally eligible like a man. So, you can understand that these talks are not for the public, as they have not got the ability to understand. Basically we have not got hatred for anyone, but when one is demoniac or atheistic, we should try to avoid their company. A preacher’s busi- ness is to love God, to make friendship with devotees, to enlighten the innocent, and to avoid the demons. This principle we shall follow. But in higher devotional life, there is no such distinction. The top- most devotee sees everything in Krishna, and Krishna in everything. Generally, as preachers, we are middle class devotees. So we should not remain as neophyte devotee. Neophyte devotee does not know how to preach. He simply goes to the temple, and offers everything with devotion to the Deity, and he doesn’t know anything else. So our devotees of the society should not remain in the neo- phyte position; neither should they try to imitate the topmost devotee. Best thing is to remain in the via media of middle class position, namely to love God, to make friendship with devotees, and to en- lighten the innocent, and to avoid the de- mons. These differences of body according to Karma are there, but a devo- tee divides them into the above groups, and so we have to divide them into these different groups and behave differently with each of the groups. It is true that we should not be attached to the differences of material bodies, but practically, in practical field, the behavior should be as stated above. So far standard Sanskrit transliteration, that which Pradyumna is doing will be our standard. The spelling should also be stan- dard, and based on his work. So far the word “‘Kshatriya’’, this is the correct spell- ing. All these discrepancies are happening on account of my students being unaware of Sanskrit language. Therefore, I requested Pradyumna to leam Sanskrit very seri- ously. He has got the aptitude, and I hope he may come out very successful. Yes, everyone of us should be ideal to 380 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda the other so everyone can get impetus to make progress more and more. The col- lege engagements sound very nice; I shall reach there by the first of May. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami “au” can sometimes go as “ou.” The rest of the transliteration is standard. 68-4-10 San Francisco 12th April, 1968 United Shipping Corporation 14/2, Old China Bazar Street Room No. 18, Calcutta 1. Dear Sir. Mittra, I have sent you one letter dated March 23, 1968, the copy of which is enjoined herewith. I do not know why you did not reply this letter of March 23, and I am very much sorry that in the absence of the statement of account on our $500, and the balance remaining with you, I am getting reminders from the New York office. Iam proceeding to New York on the 17th of April, 1968, and by that time I hope to re- ceive the reply of my letter of March 23, and the statement of account showing the balance of money lying with you. Please treat this as urgent and oblige. Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-11 San Francisco 12th April, 1968 My Dear Dayananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter post-dated April 8, 1968, and noted the contents with great interest. I am so pleased to know that you are trying to understand this nice philoso- phy of Krsna consciousness almost new to your country. Krishna is so pleased that He has sent me so many nice boys and girls to cooperate with my mission, and I am feeling very happy for this Grace of Krishna. Here in S.F. we are trying to pur- chase one nice church, and the matter is in negotiation. We have offered them the price which we can afford to pay, but they are bargaining the matter, so, if need be, I may ask you for some help in this connec- tion. I am happy that you are satisfied with your family, and continue like this, and be more and more happy with your good wife and your good God-sent child, Chandramukhi. I am very much anxious to go there to Florida, bercause I have heard so much about this city, and because many retired men go there to settle. I am always anxious to open a center there to attract these retired men, and convince them about the utility of Krishna con- sciousness, but I know also that this re- tired class of men is very difficult to be convinced because their life-long habit is difficult to be changed. I am rather hope- ful with the young boys and girls who are attached to this movement. I am starting for N.Y. on the 17th of April, and I think I shall be engaged in N.Y. and Boston throughout the months of April and May. As desired by you I could have gone to Florida by the month of June, but I understand you are coming back to L.A. by that time. So we will think over the matter later on. But I shall be glad to know when the exact time you plan to return to L.A. You can write to me your next letter to the New York address (ISKCON, 26 Second Avenue, N.Y., N.Y.) Regarding parampara system: there is nothing to wonder for big gaps. Just like we belong to the Brahma Sampradaya, so we accept it from Krishna to Brahma, Brahma to Narada, Narada to Vyasdev, Vyasdev to Madhva, and between Vyas- dev and Madhva there is a big gap. But it APRIL, 1968 381 is sometimes said that Vyasdev is still liv- ing, and Madhva was fortunate enough to meet him directly. In a similar way, we find in the Bhagavad Gita that the Gita was taught to the sungod, some millions of years ago, but Krishna has mentioned only three names in this parampara system—namely, Vivaswan, Manu, and Ikswaku; and so these gaps do not hamper from understanding the parampara sys- tem. We have to pick up the prominent acharyas, and follow from him. There are many branches also from the parampara system, and it is not possible to record all the branches and sub-branches in the dis- ciplic succession. We have to pick up from the authority of the acharya in whatever sampradaya we belong to. Hoping you are all three well, and please keep me informed. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-12 San Francisco 13th April, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Jadunandan, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to receive your letter, and I am very happy to learn that you are all coming to N.Y. to meet me on the 17th. We are starting at 9:00 a.m., and will reach there about 4:45 p.m., N.Y. time. Re- garding your questions, how material things dissolve, I may give you one ex- ample: Material manifestation is tempo- rary, as it is stated in Bhagavad Gita, that material manifestation at times comes into being and it at times vanquishes. So, when material variagatedness van- quishes, it does not mean that spiritual variagatedness also vanquishes. Mate- rial variagatedness is perverted reflec- tion of the spiritual variagatedness, as it is described in the Bhagavad Gita, that this material manifestation is just like a tree with the root upward. Roots upwards of a tree means it is reflection. So also in Bhagwatam it is stated like this, that the material world is a combination of earth, water, and fire; just like a beautiful girl made of earth, water and fire, standing in the window of a storefront. Similarly, this material world is imitation beauty of the spiritual world, as much as the doll- girl is imitation of the real girl. So when the doll-girl is broken, it does not mean that the real girl is also finished. Mate- rial manifestation is just like occasional cloud in the sky, so when the cloud disap- pears, the sky remains. Similarly, when the material world dissolutes, the spiri- tual world remains. Krishna and His Kingdom, the spiritual world, are eter- nal. We have to understand things in this method. That is Krishna Consciousness. Do not misunderstand that after the va- riagatedness of the material world being finished, everything becomes imper- sonal, that is nonsense. Try to under- stand Bhagavad Gita nicely. Your faith in the Christian religion is very strong, I can understand. So, when you want to convert Christians into Krishna Con- sciousness, you should understand first of all the philosophy of Krishna Con- sciousness. Without understanding the philosophy of Krishna Consciousness, if we try to convert Christians into Krishna Consciousness, it will be utter failure. We do not condemn any religion because the Bhagwatam says that the religious process is the best by which one can at- tain love of God. So we are teaching Love of Godhead, not any particular type of religion. Our Krishna Conscious move- ment is not a religious movement; it is a movement for purifying the heart. Mod- ern civilization is defying the authority of the Personality of Godhead; the more 382 Letters from Srila Prabhupada a man advances in his material adven- tures, the more he becomes covered by the illusory energy. This conception that when one’s mate- rial concept of life is finished, the material vision of this also vanishes. Actually there is one energy of Krishna, which is spiri- tual. Material consciousness of life means forgetfulness of Krishna; when one is fully Krishna Consciousness, there is no more any material existence in the vision of such advanced devotee. We have to learn it step by step; just like we prepare prasadam, and ordinarily it is rice, dahl, and choppatties. But when it is offered to Krishna, it becomes prasadam. How ordi- nary rice, dahl, and choppatties turns into spiritual prasadam is to be understood by advancement of Krishna Consciousness, but actually anything in relation with Krishna is spiritual energy. The mind does not dissolve, it changes its quality, or rather, it becomes purified. No, thoughts of feelings of love for Krishna is not ego-projected, or emo- tional, provided it is conformed by Spiri- tual Master [TEXT MISSING] great. Anyone who can understand how God is great, automatically he can under- stand that God is great. You can mention some parallels from Christian literature while explaining Bhagavad Gita, but you cannot find in any other scripture in the world the full information as given in the Bhagavad Gita. We should not forget that we are preaching science of God from Bhagavad Gita, which contains all spiri- tual instructions contained in other scrip- tures. But if the public is unruly, simply to chant and not speak anything philosophy is the best. At that time there is no use wasting time talking with them on phi- losophy. Better for both you and the audi- ence to chant and hear Hare Krishna. I hope your questions are fully an- swered, and I will be looking forward to again seeing you all. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please inform Pradyumna that I have duly received the transliteration of B.S. Many thanks. ACB 68-4-13 San Francisco 13th April, 1968 Allston, MA My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter post-dated April 11, and this is the first time I received your letter finished in three lines, so I can understand that you have been depressed by receiving my last letter. The idea is that there is a story, “‘that, I have lost my caste and still my belly is not fulfilled.” In In- dia, it is the custom that the Hindus do not ever take meals in the house of a Moham- medan, Christian, or anyone other than the house of Hindu Brahmin. But a man was very hungry, and accidentally he took his food in the house of a Mohammedan. And when he wanted still more food, the man refused, as the man could not supply. So the Hindu man said, ‘‘Sir, I have lost my caste, and still I am hungry!” Simi- larly, if artistic pictures as they are ap- proved by the people in general in this country can be sold quickly, I have not any objection to present our pictures in such a way. But I know that pictures in this coun- try are sold not on the merit of the picture, but on the reputation of the artist. That system is also current in India. But to come to the point of a reputed artist will require long duration of time. And our time is very short. We have to finish our APRIL, 1968 383 Krishna Consciousness during our life- time, and we should not waste a single moment for anything else. According to Chaitanya Charitamrita, a man is famous who is known as a great devotee of Krishna. So if there is not possibility of selling our pictures immediately on pre- sentation, I do not think there is any ne- cessity to improve our artistic craft- manship. We should be satisfied with our pictures hanging in our different temples. But we may not sacrifice our valuable time for becoming famous artists so that pictures may be sold like hotcakes. Our institution is mainly for the devo- tees and as it is the custom in India, devo- tees are maintained by the general public, who are engaged in materialistic activities for sense gratification. But in this country it is not possible that the Brahmacaries or Sannyasins shall beg from door to door, as it is the custom in India. But at the same time we require some money for conduct- ing our business of our society. Therefore the idea was that we may sell some pic- tures but so far I understand that even if we follow the principles of modern artists, still our pictrues like Narada Muni, Pan- cha Tattwa, etc., will not have immediate prospective market. If there is actually any prospect for selling our pictures put up in this modern artistic way, then I have no objection for putting pictures in this way for selling them. But if that is not pos- sible, then I think we should not waste time in this way. Of course, I am not an artist, neither I have power to see from ar- tistic viewpoint; I am a layman, so which- ever picture appeals to me I say it is nice, and whichever picture does not appeal to me I say it is not nice. That is my common sense affair. Therefore my remark has no value from artistic sense. Anyway, don’t be depressed; you can go on with your work, and we shall talk more on this sub- ject when we meet together. I have replied Jadunandan’s letter, and I wish that you all should read that letter, because it contains some valuable information about our preaching method, and many intelligent questions by him have been replied in that letter. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-14 New York 19th April, 1968 Sri Shyamsundar Mullick 155/A Mahatma Gandhi Road Calcutta-7, India My Dear Brother Gabu, Please accept my blessings. I hope in the meantime you have received the reply of your letter dated 27th March, 1968. Since I wrote you last I have come to New York. Regarding Business: if you send goods on our order then just on presenta- tion of the shipping documents and your bill, my banker, the Bank of America, will pay for it at once. The copy of the bank’s letter is enclosed herewith; please find it. If you agree to do business in that way, you can send immediately 20 first class kholes, and immediately ship 10 kholes to New York, and 10 to San Fran- cisco. There is a shipping line, American Mail Service, or there are many shipping lines regularly coming from Calcutta to San Francisco and New York, and you can take advantage of them. We have got some money, about 3000/ Rs., lying with United Shipping Corporation, at 14/2, Old China Bazar Street, Room No. 18, Calcutta. I have sent them several letters for statement of account and they are si- lent since a long time. I am also enclosing herewith the copy of their letter as en- closed herein. So if you send the khole, then this ship- ping corporation will ship the kholes, freight paid, because our money is lying with them. Please see them why they have 384 Letters from Srila Prabhupada not replied my letters, submitting state- ment of account. Iam very much ashamed for their behavior because here the people are surprised that they are not submitting the statement of accounts of the money ly- ing with them. And please let me know if you can help us in this matter. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-15 New York 19th April, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. Hope you are well. I am so much pleased that you are studying seriously our Krishna Con- sciousness philosophy. Please continue with your sincere efforts for Krishna. Now, regarding your question about Brahma, he may be chosen either from the liberated or the conditioned souls. In this case Brahma is a liberated soul from the beginning; therefore there is no contradic- tion that Brahma can be Haridas Thakur. Those who are conditioned souls are eter- nally so, which means that it is never pos- sible to trace out how long ago the conditioned existence began. We simply say that misuse of the little independence we have got creates so much trouble for us. But now by adopting Krishna Con- sciousness, we may finish this condi- tioned life immediately. That is Krishna Consciousness. Your reasoning is all right that the Brahma energy must have conscious di- rection to manifest form. Therefore He who gives that direction is the Ultimate Controller or Param Iswara. In Brahma Samhita it is said: ‘‘Isvarah Paramah Krishnah sachchidanandavigraha, ana- diradirgovindah sarvvakaranakaranam.”’ Krishna is the Supreme Controller of all controllers and therefore, He is the Origin of everything including the Brahma En- ergy. This Govinda is the cause of all causes, and He is without any cause. This is the beauty of the Shastras, that one sloka finishes billions of years hard labor of mental speculation. Just try to give evi- dence like this. Regarding the Christian’s Trinity, I be- lieve it is called God, the Holy Ghost, and the son. Person in Krishna Consciousness accepts this by the name Vishnu, Para- matma, and Jiva. God is a Person, the holy spirit or the supersoul is a person, and the living entity is also a person. Also, Mary is the representation of the en- ergy of God. Either as internal energy Radharani or as external energy Durga, the energy of Godhead can be considered the mother of the living entities. But there is no clash between the Bible and the Ve- das, simply some people formulate their personal ideas and cause quarrellings. Nobody can say the Bible was meant for the same class of men as the Bhagavad Gita. And Bhagavad Gita is the ABC’x of spiritual knowledge. Beyond that is Sri- mad Bhagwatam. How great Srimad Bhagwatam is nobody can imagine. And beyond that is Chaitanya Charitamrita. But beginning from the Bible or Koran, on up the principle remains the same. Just like beginning from the pocket dictionary, up [PAGE MISSING] 68-4-16 New York 21st April, 1968 My Dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 19th April, 1968, and the incidence in connection with Krishna’s sitting on your lap is very interesting. I am so glad to learn that you have developed so much love for Krishna. This is the way of developing Krishna Consciousness; and wherever you will be APRIL, 1968 385 rigid in your Krishna Consciousness, the triumph will be yours. Yes, here everything is very joyous, because so many nice boys and girls have joined the society, and they are joyfully dancing and chanting. You can let Shyam- sundar know that the calculation of Ra- thayatra was made one month ahead. The actual date is the 28th of June; beginning of Rathayatra is on the 28th, and it will continue till 8 days, and the general festi- val may be observed on the 7th of July, Sunday (because Saturday is Ekadasi). Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, P.S. I thank you very much for the beauti- ful picture of Krishna which you have drawn and sent to me. Please paint many such nice pictures of Krishna, and we shall use them in all our temples. 68-4-17 21st April, 1968 My Dear Boys and Girls: Please accept my blessings and my message unto you is that this Krishna Consciousness movement in your country is the greatest boon to you all. Please take full advantage of this movement and be successful within this life. Everyone of us had to pass through many millions of years in the chain of evolutionary process from aquatic to plant life. from plant to reptile life, then to the species of birds, beasts, uncivilized human beings and now this is the golden opportunity with these nice American bodies. You have high in- telligence, opulences, birth inthe families of the rich nation. Use this opportunity for making life successful and go back to Krishna, back to Home. It is a very scien- tific movement authorized by the Vedas and accepted by all great acharyas. I think the boy Terry is God-sent. In his past life he must have cultivated this science of Krishna Consciousness and therefore he has automatically been attracted with this movement and who knows if all the boys and girls joining me were not born by the Supreme Will of Krishna just to ehlp me in this great task of distributing Krishna Consciousness in the Western World spe- cifically. I am always at your service and whenever you shall call me I shall come to your place and enjoy your good company. Please try to open a center there as soon as possible. I have instructed Terry about this. Please co-operate with him and chant Hare Krishna and open a center there. Ever your well-wisher, 68-4-18 New York 26th April, 1968 Montreal My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated April 12, and postdated on April 24, 1968, with enclosure of letter from Kir- tananda Swami dated April 7, 1968. Iam so glad to learn that your examination in M.A. is successful, and I hope very soon you will have your Ph.D. degrees, both ti- tles engaged in the service of the Lord. There are four things desirable in this ma- terial world, namely, good parentage, sumptuous wealth, sufficient education, and good beauty. These things are some- times impediments in the service of the Lord because such persons with great par- entage, wealth, etc., becomes materially puffed up, and thus deviates from Krishna Consciousness, but when they are em- ployed in the service of the Lord, their value becomes many more times greater. Just like zero has no value, but when zero is placed on right side of one, the value of zero enhances to 10 times; similarly, our 386 Letters from Srila Prabhupada life, wealth, intelligence, and words be- come 100 times 100 greater and greater if they are employed in the service of the Lord. I shall always pray to Krishna that you may come out a successful and emi- nent scholar so that your writings and thoughts may be seriously taken by the mundane wranglers. Our only business is to present Krishna Consciousness to the ignorant mass of people, and if such peo- ple agree to hear in consideration of our important position in the material world, it is a great opportunity to place our sub- mission, and thereby our mission is ful- filled. Acharyas in the disiplic succession of Lord Chaitanya teach us that we shall try to place the message of Lord Chaitanya very humbly to the people in general and that will make us successful in our service to the Lord. I sincerely bless you that your future hopes to present Krishna Con- sciousness in terms of French custom may be crowned with success. Regarding the action of Bon Maharaj: We shall discuss the matter when we meet. For the present, you may know that this gentleman is very much materially ambitious. He wants to utilize Krishna Consciousness for his material name and fame. Sometimes he greatly offended our Guru Maharaj, and it so happened that at the last stage, practically Guru Maharaj rejected him. And the result, we can find that instead of becoming a great preacher of Krishna Consciousness, this gentleman has become artificially a head of a mun- dane institution. To become a very impor- tant man in the mundane estimation is not success in Krishna Consciousness. He was first deputed by my Guru Maharaj, along with our late God Brother, Bhakti Pradip Tirtha Maharaj, to open a mission- ary center in London, and they stayed there for 3 years, but didn’t make any ap- preciable advance. Except that spent enormous money of my Guru Maharaj, and later on they were called back to In- dia. So that is a great history; it is not pos- sible to say everything in this letter, but for the present, be satisfied with thesé words, and later we shall talk more and more. On the whole, you may know that he is not a liberated person, and therefore, he cannot initiate any person to Krishna Conscious- ness. It requires special spiritual benedic- tion from higher authorities. The statements of Thakur Bhakt- ivinode are as good as scriptures because he is liberated person. Generally the spiri- tual master comes from the group of such eternal associates of the Lord; but anyone who follows the principles of such ever liberated persons is as good as one in the above mentioned group. The gurus from nature’s study are accepted as such on the principle that an elevated person in Krishna Consciousness does not accept anyone as disciple, but he accepts every- one as expansion of his guru. That is very high position, called Maha-bhagawat. Just like Radharani, sometimes thinks a subordinate of hers as her teacher, to un- derstand devotion of Krishna. A person who is liberated acharya and guru cannot commit any mistake, but there are per- sons who are less qualified or not liber- ated, but still can act as guru and acharya by strictly following the disciplic succes- sion. It is the injunction of the shastras that anyone who sees the Deity in the Temple as made of wood or stone, or con- siders the acharyas and gurus as ordinary common men, and discriminates Vaishnavas or devotees as belonging to a certain group or caste, are called hellish. Your question about Bon Maharaj in rela- tion with his disciple is very intelligent and intricate, and we shall discuss at long when we meet. Regarding Kirtanananda’s letter, I may inform you that I always think of him and pray to Krishna for his good sense. That is my duty. Anyone who comes to me for my help or wants advance in Krishna APRIL, 1968 387 Consciousness, and whom I initiate and accept as my disciple, I must pray for him and his welfare always. So Kirtananda personally served me, especially during my illness, which I always remember. But because somehow or other he has misun- derstood our activities that does not mean that I am no longer his well wisher. I write at the end of my letters to my disciples, “Your ever well-wisher”’’, and as such, I cannot become otherwise than being ever well-wisher of my disciples, even though he may leave me. So I was praying to Krishna that He may save Kirtanananda from his misunderstanding and if ever he chanted Hare Krishna at least once in sin- cere heart, I am sure Krishna would not allow: him to go out of his influence. Therefore, I believe that he can never for- get the Form of Krishna, neither he can deny His Personality. It is good news that he is trying to establish a new Vrindaban, which I suggested through Hayagriva Brahmachary, and if he is successful, in his attempt, certainly it will be considered a great benediction upon him by Lord Krishna. When I offered him Sannyas, I expected such great achievements through him and if Krishna desires, he will come out successful in his great attempt. Yes, I expressed my desire to go there through Hayagriva Brahmacary, and if I am in- vited, to go there, by Kirtanananda Swami, it will be my great pleasure to see the place and enjoy his company. On the first of May I am proceeding to Boston. Last night we had a very nice meeting at Temple University at Philadel- phia, and there were nice kirtans and speeches, and questions and answers from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. They paid us $150.00 for transportation charges and my lecture fees, and on the 30th of April we are going to hold similar meeting in Long Island, at the State University of New York, at Stoney Brook. They also have promised to pay us $200.00. Similar meetings were held in different parts of San Francisco and Los Angeles, when I was there. So there is great possibility of spreading our Krishna Conscious move- ment, and if we work conjointly, with se- rious sincerity, we are sure to come out successful in this great adventure. I expected to meet you here in New York by this time, but I do not see any in- dication in your letter under reply. Any- way on receipt of your letter I am very much satisfied and I shall be glad to hear from you I think at Boston. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-4-19 New York 29th April, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated April 24, 1968, and I thank you very much for all the nice news. I am so much pleased to learn that the Los Angeles temple is im- proving in opulence. Please tell Janaki that I am so glad to learn that she has framed the pictures very nicely and that both she and Mukunda are working to im- prove the condition of the temple. This is all very nice. Yes, the idea to make S.F. our head- quarters, that is in my mind, but that church is not yet settled. The man is pro- longing it. Actually, if you get the church I shall make that my headquarters, and I shall come there to your temple occasion- ally. How is Samkarshan and Baladev? I have not heard anything from them. I have ordered one half dozen mri- dangas to be dispatched to San Francisco port, so you will have good opportunity to take procession of Samkirtan with 2 or 3 mridangas, kartals, etc. Regarding the Radha Krishna statues, 388 Letters from Srila Prabhupada for the time being, suspend it. Keep Them dressed nicely, as Janaki is doing. I have received the second transcribing set. On Wednesday, May 1, I am going to Boston, where there are so many nice college en- gagements arranged. Just recently we went to Philadelphia, to Temple Univer- sity, where we held kirtan and lecture very nicely. And for our transportation and lec- ture they paid us $150.00; similarly, to- morrow we have got engagement at New York University at Stoney Brook, Long Is- land, and they are paying us $200.00 for our coming there. So we are spreading this Samkirtan very nicely here also. Please keep me informed of all your ac- tivities there, and hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-4-20 New York 29th April, 1968 My Dear Nandarani and Dayananda, Please accept my blessings. I am very pleaed to receive your letters of April 23, 1968, and I am very thankful to you for your nice sentiments. You are very intelli- gent and nice boy and girl, and trying to understand Krishna Consciousness, and I can simply pray that you shall try to understand more and more about this transcendental science, and whenever possible, try to talk about Krishna Con- sciousness to your friends or whomever you may meet. Simply by this attempt you will get superior strength and knowledge about Krishna Consciousness. It doesn’t matter whether a man is convinced or not, but your sincere attempts to convince oth- ers will help you progress. Nandarani is very intelligent girl, both of you execute nicely and try to bring up your daughter in the same spirit, and live nicely in Krishna Consciousness. So far your question about Karna, the first son of Kunti; that Radha was not the same Radha, as Krishna’s Radha. That was Karna’s adopted mother. Karna was born before Kunti was married, so in or- der to keep it silent, he was kept in a pack- age and floated in the ocean. And this carpenter father and his wife, Aniradha, took care of him, and he was brought up there with them. So Karna was known as the son of a carpenter; nobody knew that he was the eldest son of Kunti, and a Kshatriya. This was not known until he died, and Kunti began to cry. Yudisthir asked her why youare crying, he is the en- emy, and she said, he was my first son. He was born out of her ear, so he was called Karna. When she was very young, she got some mantra which could be used to call any demigod, so just to try it, as experi- ment, to see if it worked, she called the sun god. He immediately apeared there before her, and said, I will give you the benediction of one son; she replied that she simply was experimenting with this mantra, that she did not want a son, and she became afraid as she was unmarried girl. He said I shall give you a son anyway, and it will be born out of your ear. So as she was virgin girl, she became very frightened that people may say things, so she put him into the ocean. Yes, Karna had many extraordinary attributes. He was a great soldier, and a most charitable man. He was so strong that it was not pos- sible for Arjuna to kill him; he had to take unfair tactics and kill him. Karna could have killed Arjuna, but by Krishna’s Grace, Arjuna killed Karna. In other words, Krishna killed Karna, otherwise, nobody could have killed him. I am very glad to learn that your nice child Chandramuki is growing daily. By your care and attention, she will come out a Krishna Consciousness girl like Hari- dasi, the daughter of Baladev. We are selling our books, Srimad Bhagwatam, 3 in a set for $12.00, but a APRIL, 1968 389 single bookis $5.00. Iam leaving for Bos- ton on Wednesday, the first of May, and you can send your care of the Boston ad- dress, (ISKCON Radha Krishna Temple, Glenville Avenue, Allston, Mass. 02134). Hoping you are three well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. No, I think there is not any good En- glish version of Mahabharata but very soon, we shall have the Bhagavad Gita, and the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and you can enjoy reading them; they should be ready by September. There is one small pocket edition pub- lished by Bharatiya Bhavan Bombay-7. 68-4-21 April, 1968 [PAGE MISSING] dated April 17, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. I am so much pleased to hear that you are not afraid to stand alone, and to maintain the temple there nicely; krishna is always there with you, and He will see to your success. Do not feel that you have offended me. You have served Krishna very nicely and are continuing to do so very nicely. There is no question of your falling from my grace: you have al- ways my blessings upon you, and I am al- ways thinking of you, and praying Krishna to help you and give you more and more advancement in Krishna Consciousness. So please do not be disturbed in that way. Just continue with what you are doing there, and Krishna will give you all facili- ties and all protection. I have arrived here in New York on the 17th afternoon: the trip was very quickly passed, and we were very nicely recieved at the airport, by both the press and the devotees. Here there are so many new flower-like young boys and girls, and they are all so much interested in Krishna Con- sciousness very seriously. I am surprised at their great enthusiasm, and I am very happy amongst them. Just try to make your temple there as successful as this one in New York; just work sincerely, and it will come. Please keep me informed of your ac- tivities: Iam so much happy to hear you are contacting reproters and radio and tv stations; please send me a copy of the news article whenever it appears. And please keep me informed at least once or more in a week. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Boston 3rd May, 1968 68-5-1 My dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessings. I am just in receipt of your letter forwarded from New York. Please be happy in separation. I am separated from my Guru Maharaj since 1936 but I am always with him so long I work according to his direction. So we should all work together for satisfying Lord Krishna and in that way the feelings of separation will transform into transcen- dental bliss. Hope you are well. I am very anxious to know about the church. If they do not agree then take back the check. Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-2 Allston, Mass. 3rd May, 1968 San Francisco My dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter dated April 27, 1968, and noted the contents. Your feelings of separation are very strong, and I thank you for your kind sentiments expressed therein. So far the date of the Rathajatra festi- val, it is to be on the 28th of June, and will continue for 8 days. There are two festi- vals; one going, and one returning. So you can make plans like that. Yes, if it is necessary then you can make a nice bed for Lord Jagganatha and Lord Balaram, and keep them nicely until I return. It is your responsibility to see to keeping all the things which I left there very nicely, so please see to it. Among the medicines I left there you will find some small phials, with the name on them “Bhasker Bajra Jog’. Please send me immediately by Ist day mail 4 phials entitled as above. Please see to it. Please keep me with information so far the church is concerned, and try for it. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-3 Allston, Mass. 3rd May, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 1, 1968, along with enclosure of Achyut- nanda’s letter. On the day of our departure I was expecting you in the airport, but I think as you are young man, you were tired on the last night, on the 30th April, on account of late arriving from the Long Island meeting, and you could not get up earlier from your bed. In that sense, I am more active than you because on that night also I got up from my bed at 4:00 a.m. in- stead of 2:00 a.m. as usually, and I worked on my usual duties. So you young men should not simply eulogize my hard working capacity, but I wish that you should also follow my example. 392 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Now, it is understood that Achy- utananda is on the safe side, and you might have noted that my friend Seth Dal- mia has sanctioned for him 100 Rs. per month through the Dalmia trust. SoI shall have less anxiety for him from now. Now, if he can open a center with cooperation of Hit Sharan, then we can send any number of Brahmacharies there. Later develope- ments we shall have to wait. In the mean- time, as I have already advised you, you please arrange to send 1000 Mahamantra records (by seaship) as free gifts for In- dian friends and the documents may be sent to the following address: Seth Jaidayal Dalmia; 4-Scindia House; New Delhi-1; India. This may be done imme- diately and the price $500.00 may be paid to Mr. Kallman in cash. Mr. Kallman for- merly supplied us at 50c per piece which we meant for selling, but this time we are now distributing free. So he should have reduced less than 50c; if not, let him not charge more than 50c. Because this 1000 records we are taking from the old stock. When he manufactures the new stock we shall pay him as he desires. I have already advised Achyutananda for purchasing your store goods. Now if you can send him a list of goods you re- quire, and he may submit you a quotation from the Delhi market. I hope you have al- ready sent Mr. Kallman’s letter to San Francisco, and I am very much anxious to know the result of it. Also, I shall be glad to know the affairs in connection with Mac Millan, and Dia Nippon. You will be pleased to know that yesterday we had a very nice meeting in the North Eastern University, and they presented copies of the enclosed letter for distributing. The copy is enclosed; please find. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure—2 68-5-4 Sth May, 1968 My dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I am in due reciept of your letter of April 30, 1968, and noted the contents. So your duty as you are doing, even nobody is coming in morning, Lord Jaggannatha will hear your Kirten, because we are al- ways incompany with the Lord of the Uni- verse. But I think Krishna has sent you one nice boy to help you. Please try to convince him rightly about the philosopy of Krishna consciousness and read Sri- mad Bhagwatam and other literatures, from Back to Godhead, and I think this boy will be helpful to your activities there. So far changing the place; we must give first consideration to the right place, not to the rent. Even the rent is high, we shall first pay for a place where many peo- ple come and go. Our New York center and San Francisco center is well situated because many newcomers pass through the street in front of the temple. Similarly if the present place is better, you may not change to other place for cheaper rent. Please try to convince that college boy who is coming and I hope he will be very much helpful to your activities. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-5 Allston, Mass. Sth May, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your very nice leter dated 4/27/68, and the sentiments expressed in that letter by you gives me more pleasure that you are appreciating the importance of our movement. I am sure that you must MAY, 1968 393 appreciate like that because Iam always of opinion that both you and your elder brother are the result of a good mother. So I very much appreciate both yours and your brother’s activities and it appears that both of you were in your previous birth advanced in this line of Krishna Consciousness, and here is another chance to complete it. So by the Grace of Krishna you have got good intelligence, you are born of a great nation, and good family; just utilize the opportunity to fin- ish the business of Krishna Conscious- ness, without waiting for further incar- nartion. Srimad Bhagwatam says that we should try for the highest achievement, and complete it before the next death comes. I think that your separation from Karunamayee is Krishna’s desire. So don’t be sorry for it. In this connection I may tell you my personal life experience. When I was married at the age of 21 witha wife who was only 11 years old, practi- cally I did not like my wife. And as I was at that time very young man, and an edu- cated college student, I wanted to marry again, inspite of my wife being present. Because amongst the Hindus one can ac- cept more than one wife (of course the law is now changed). So, whenever every- thing was all ready for my marriage with another girl, my great father who was a great devotee of the Lord, called me and instructed me in the following words: “My dear boy, I understand that you are trying to get yourself married again, bit I would advise you not to do this. It is Krishna’s Grace that your present wife is - not just according toyour liking. This will help you not to become attached with wife and home, and this will help you in the matter of your future advancement of Krishna Consciousness.” Now, I accepted my father’s advice, and by his blessings, only, I was never at- tached to my wife or home which resulted in my complete liberation from worldly attachment and devote myself fully in Krishna Consciousness. Therefore I think your separation from Karunamayee is also the same opporttunity for your being cent per cent engaged in Krishna Conscious- ness. I thank you very much for your check of $50.00, and I am very glad to learn that you are already in possession of a nice storeroom for exhibiting your sellable goods. There are samples of pictures in the temple there, and whichever picture you like, to have in your store, I shall ad- vise Jadurany to dispatch for selling pur- poses. Yesterday your brother Brahmananda accompanied by Mr. Kallman and Puru- shottam came here and I understand that you had telephone conversation with him. He is also doing nice business of the same line as you are doing. I have advised your brother as well as I advise you to get expe- rience of the articles that are nicely selling and then you may directly import them from India. You have got some infection, and I am very much anxious about your cyst pain. I do not know what is the actual position but if it is ordinary, then I think a little paint- ing of Sloan’s Liniment may reduce the painful reaction. But if it is within the skin then you have to consult some physician, but you can try by applying Sloan’s Lini- ment, and before applying the liniment you can foment by heating some soft pad in hot water, and apply on the spot. After heating you can apply Sloan’s Liniment. I hope you will be feeling better soon. Please keep me informed. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Regarding church negotiations, Mr. Kallman’s letter of assurance shall be the last word from us. They must reply it now yes or no. If ”yes” then take in writing and send it to me. If t3)’’no’”’ then take back 394 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the check for $1000.00; there is no need of lingering the matter. Please inform Jay- ananda and Chidananda about my opinion in this connection. Please let me know the result by return post. ACB 68-5-6 Allston, Mass. 6th May, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter of April 28,1968, written in your own handwrit- ing. Yes, I am keeping well by the Grace of my Guru Maharaj, and I am working also on Srimad Bhagwatam as well as fora nice edition of Chaitanya Charitamrita. The Teachings of Lord Chaitanya is being printed, 5000 copies in Japan; and the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, is being published by MacMillan Co. very shortly. The ar- rangement is complete and things are go- ing on. Now you have to find out some person who can distribute our literature and other things. Sometimes you told me you can find out some man who can take charge of our distribution of literature, now please do it very seriously. Because if we have no outlet for selling the books it will be a problem to get the new stock of books. If there is nice distribution ar- rangement, then at least 2 to 4 books we can publish every year. Iam very glad that Janaki is busy deco- rating the temple; this is what I want, that every disciple should always remain busy in some wark for Krishna. We shall not al- low to remain vacant our mind, and if the mind is always filled up with Krishna Consciousness activities, there is no chance of Maya to sit on the mind and force us to act under her spell. Maharaj Amburisha he did like that and in spite of his becoming a responsible emperor of the world, he was a great devotee of Lord Krishna, and he successfully winned the challenge of a great yogi, Durbasa. I am so glad to learen about Haridasi, the fortunate girl in Los Angeles. She has got nice parents, and has the opportunity of being in Krishna Consciousness from childhood. It is therefore needed that we may train some children in our Krishna Consciousness movement, and it will come out very successful. Yamuna devi is also training 2 nice boys in S.F., and they are getting very encouraging achieve- ments. It is very good news that the girl Haridasi is dreaming about Krishna, and Krishna is playing with her; it is very much encouraging. It means she will come outa great and successful devotee of Krishna when she is grown up and young. May Krishna bless her, and her good par- ents, who are training her in that way. Please offer my thanks to Balaram and his good wife. I know that Woomapati is a very intelli- gent boy, and he tries in that way, he will come out a nice preacher in the future. If he has decided to remain a Brahmachary, and preaches our movement of Krishna Consciousness, it will be a great success for his life. Please inform him that his inti- mate friend, Hayagriva, came to see me in New York and we talked very frankly, and he is still my good disciple, and I have asked him to stay with me wherever I may be, and he has agreed. I understand also from him that Kirtananda Swami is also eager to see me, and we shall be very glad if they come back and work with us con- jointly. I am praying for this to Krishna. It is very nice that you are keeping the Radha Krishna Murti so nicely there with you. No, it is not improper to keep Them at your home, but it must be kept with due veneration and respect. If we keep the Statue of Krishna in our room, we must MAY, 1968 395 know that Krishna is present, and as such we must be careful in our dealings, talk- ings and behavior, as we are present be- fore Krishna directly. The altar should be so made, with curtain, that it may be closed when Krishna and Radha are tak- ing rest. Dress them as nicely as possible, we have so many Radha Krishna pictures, you can take idea from them. Yes, your observation is perfect. If we spread this Krishna Consciousness move- ment, certainly there will be an atmo- sphere of purity and people will be happy both and this life and the next. Please try for these things, draft defer- ral and tax exemption. It is greatly needed. You will be pleased to know that Robert Kennedy heard Hare Krishna Kir- tan from poet Allen Ginsberg. He is very kind to chant HareKrishna wherever he goes, as I have requested him to do, and when he met me at San Francisco, he told me that he chanted Hare Krishna before Mr. Kennedy. So I think it is already in his attention. That is all right, whenever you are able to do so, then contribute 50% of your in- come to the temple. Shyamsundar wanted to go to London; what is his opinion about this? I am very much eager to open a center in London. If Shyamasundar and Malati go there, then one or two other Brahmacharies may go there to organize a center in London; and as soon as it is in makeup then I may also go there for sometime, to deal with the Beatles who are so much anxious to un- derstand about spiritual knowledge. Any sincere person, never mind whether he is hippy or Beatle, if he is actually searching for something beyond this hackneyed ma- terial sense gratification, surely he will find the most comfortable shelter under the Lotus Feet of Lord Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Who is non-different from Lord Krishna. We should try our best, begging every person to give us some time to listen about this Krishna Con- sciousness movement, as it is taught by Lord Chaitanya. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-7 Allston Mass. 10th May, 1968 Juno Beach, Florida My Dear Dayananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your check which I beg to acknowledge receipt herewith. I am so pleased to learn that you are constantly trying to follow my instructions. Of course, I have no particular instructions, save and except the instruction which I have also heard from my Spiritual Master. So all instructions in the disciplic succes- sion directly comes from the Supreme Person. Therefore to follow the instruc- tions of a Spiritual Master is to follow the instructions of the Supreme Person. And as soon as we are accustomed to this habit, then all our misgivings of material exis- tence are over. Your ambition for chanting Hare Krishna exclusively is very good. But sacrificing the results of action is as good. A concrete example is Arjuna. He fought very chivalrously under the in- structions of the Lord, and the Lord certi- fied him to be the best devotee and friend of the Lord. So there is no distinction be- tween chanting and offering the results of one’s activity. Sometimes under the garb of chanting people take to the habit of lazi- ness, which is not required at all. Execu- tion of devotional service is prescribed first with enthusiasm and patience. One can execute this transcendental activities staying as he is, but he must follow and try to apply in practical life the instructions as 396 Letters from Srila Prabhupada they are given in the Bhagavad Gita or Sri- mad Bhagwatam, received through the proper channel. I thank you once more for your prog- ress, in the matter of Krishna Conscious- ness, and I shall always pray to Krishna for your steady progress more and more, along with your nice wife. Hope you are all three well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-8 Allston, Mass. 14th May, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 13, 1968, and I noted thereof that you are a lit- tle bit disappointed. There is no question of disappointment in Krishna Conscious- ness. We shall try our best—success or no success, we shall depend on Krishna. Now, I do not know what is the position of securing advertisements. If advertise- ments are also not available, then I think we should go back to our mimeograph machine and put Back to Godhead out regularly. There is no scarcity of material, so we may distribute the message regu- larly, never mind it is not so highly printed. So far collections is concerned of the sales proceeds of Back To Godhead, I think you can entrust the matter to Garga- muni and Mukunda, and they will be able todistribute and send you back the money. Regarding quality of chanting Hare Krishna, we shall try to avoid the 10 kinds of offenses, that is the quality. You can write to your God-brothers in different centers that if they do not send regularly the money for sales of the maga- zine, it will not be possible to continue the paper. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Hayagriva has me article—Krishna the Charioteer. When you are ready for publication of B.G. I shall send you the same. ACB 68-5-9 14th May, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings, I am in due reciept of your letter dated May 9, 1968. It is very nice that Hal Pappa is coming to our temple. Please hand over the enclosed letter which I write to him out of my natural affection for him. I think if he joins with you you will feet more en- couraged in the service of the Lord. I thank you one more for your endeav- ors in the service of the Lord, and We must bless you and help you in all re- spects. Hope you a are well. Your ever weell-wisher, ACB 68-5-10 Allston, Mass. 14th May, 1968 -My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 13, 1968, and noted the contents. It is very good news that you are getting one bus for traveling with the Samkirtan party. Our first plan was like that—that we should have a nice Samkirtan party and travel all over the country. But since you said that you could not organize such a party, I re- quested you to go to open a center in Ger- many. Now our principle business and aim is to preach this Krishna Conscious- ness movement, and wherever we get the MAY, 1968 397 opportunity, we should take advantage of it. Now, it is up to you, to settle up— whether you should go to Germany or tra- vel about here in this country. If you have got at least 6 members for your party, then I would advise you to travel in this country with the Samkirtan party. But if you have no members to assist you, then you can try to open a center in Germany, as our good friend Subal is trying, struggling alone in Sante Fe, and still pulling on. Our only business is to spread Krishna Con- sciousness to the best of our possibility, and Krishna has given us discrimination and judgment. So, Krishna is within you, you chant and ask Him, Krishna and He will give you proper instruction. So far from my side, I can say that if you have got a party who can travel with you, then you can travel with them for some time with the Samkirtan party. If you go in the bus with your Samkirtan party, then we must sell our literatures, magazines, books, records, etc. The whole institution is not in very sound fi- nancial position, so we should always re- member this position and try to sell our articles so that we may again publish our books and literatures. Back to Godhead is already in difficulty for financial matter. It is giving me some anxiety. Back to God- head may not be stopped publication—it will be a great setback for our missionary purpose. At any rate, we should accept that bus. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Himavati, Please accept my blessings. Today I am using your beadbag. It is very nice, I thank you very much for it. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-11 Allston, Mass. 23rd May, 1968 Moundsville My Dear Kirtanananda Swami, Please accept my blessings. I was so glad to receive your letter dated May 13, 1968, and my gladness knew no bounds, exactly like that when one gets back his lost child. You have written to say that you think of me often and now it is confirmed that you cannot do without thinking of me, be- cause I was always thinking of you. Some- times I silently cried and prayed to Krishna that how I have lost this child, Kirtanananda. But I am sure that you canot be lost because you chanted very nicely in Vrindaban. Anyone who once sincerely chanted the Holy Name of Krishna cannot be separated from the Krishna Consciousness atmosphere. So I was sure that you were never lost and you would come back. Anybody who asked me how Kirtanananda left me I answered that either Kirtanananda or Hayagriva cannot be lost because at least they have chanted sincerely the Holy Name of Krishna. Anyway, Hayagriva came to me and was very glad to see him in New York, and I expected also to see you. You wrote one letter to Janardan, and I have replied that letter, and from the letter you can un- derstand my feelings for you. Krishna has provided you with a nice plot of land, and it is due to His causeless unlimited mercy upon you. You were in Vrindaban but you did not like the atmo- sphere and you became disturbed, so im- mediately after your arrival in Vrindaban you felt uncomfortable—that I could un- derstand, and therefore you came back to U.S.A. although it was settled before starting that you continue to live in Vrin- daban. Krishna is so kind that you went to Indian Vrindaban, but you did not like that particular place, somehow or other, 398 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda and therefore He has so kindly awarded so nice piece of land, exactly resembling Vrindaban. We should always know that Vrindaban is not localized in a particular area, but that wherever Krishna is there, Vrindaban is automatically there. And wherever the Holy Name of Krishna is chanted, Krishna is present there because there is no difference between Krishna and His Holy Name. So I am so pleased to learn that you are chanting and meditating of Krishna, and once only you are eating something to keep your body and soul to- gether. But my request is that as you have ac- cepted Sannyas in this order of our disci- plic succession, you must do some more service to Krishna than chanting and medi- tating, and the opportunity you have got. I understand that the land is very big area; I heard that it is 320 acres ofland, and in the letter addressed to Janaradan, you ex- pressed your desire to convert this beauti- ful piece of land into New Vrindaban in U.S.A. I wish that you may try for this New Vrindaban to your best capacity, and Krishna will give you all help. And if this piece of land is turned into New Vrinda- ban then I shall forget to return to Indian Vrindaban. I am getting older and older, so actually if I get a peaceful place as de- scribed by you, the rest of my life will be continued in translating Srimad Bhagwa- tam and other Goswami literature, as- sisted by some of my disciples like you. So anytime you take me to your new hermit- age, I shall be very glad to go there. So far your cooking is concerned, you are my first student to learn Indian style of cook- ing and from you the disciplic succession has spread and many of our students are cooking. But still your cooking surpasses everyone’s cooking. I shall be glad to par- ticipate in your nice and tasteful prasa- dam. Iam here till the end of May, 1968, and then I may either go to Montreal or may return to New York. It is not yet settled. My permanent visa is not yet. granted; they are making so many implications. It may be that I may get permanent visa in Canada, but nothing is fixed up as yet, so I do not know what is there in the future. But I know Krishna has something in His mind, and whatever He does is the best. I shall be much pleased if you kindly write me at your convenience, and more, I shall be glad to hear that you are chanting Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna, Krishna, Hare Hare. Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Sriman Umapati’s doing very well in L.A. 68-5-12 Allston, Mass. 23rd May, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. A few days ago I received one letter from you in which you desired to send me one manu- script for Nemai Sannyas drama, written by some Mr. Chatterji. Generally these dramas are sentimentalism. Those who are devotees of Lord Chaitanya, they do not discuss much about the Lord’s re- nouncing the householder life, but there are certain persons who floodlight the re- nouncement of Lord Chaitanya in a mate- rialistic sentimental way. I have seen such drama, written by Mr. Diliproy, and that was nearly nonsense. Sri Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu decided to accept this re- nouncedorder of life ina moment, and the business was finished in a day. But these people, in order to create a scene, they adulterate the Lord’s renouncement in so many ways. soI guess in the drama of Mr. MAY, 1968 399 Chatterji similar such things may be in- cluded. Any dramaor book written by un- authorized persons should not be indulged in. (In this connection I may mention that I have seen one copy of “Narada Pancharatra” sent here from San Francisco, and it is not good. Please stop circulation of this book, which is not au- thorized.) A pure devotee is always free from the four principle restrictions, and he has a telok on his forehead. At least these symptoms indicate one’s purity in Krishna Consciousness. If one is not fol- lowing these principles, he is not consid- ered to be a pure devotee. As a matter of recognition I am giving the second endowment of initiation, namely the sacred thread to those who are chanting 16 rounds regularly, and have followed the four principles of restrictions may be awarded this sacred thread. The first batch of six disciples are already given. When I return to San Francisco I shall offer the same sacred thread to some of you. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. I received your letter a few days ago and I am very glad to learn that you are training the 2 boys in Krishna Consciousness. I do not think you require an academic degree for training such boys. We are training Krishna Consciousness, which has noth- ing to do with academic education; I therefore wish that instead of wasting your time for 2 or 3 years for taking a degree, you may increase your scope of activities for recruiting such boys and training them in Krishna Consciousness. But if your state laws do not allow it to hold any class without such degree then you must get such degree. On the whole you have got a very nice engagement for training chil- dren in Krishna Consciousness. And I think you are very fit for it. I am sure if you endeavor in this line of service, Krishna will be very much pleased and will shower His blessing more and more. you are very nice girl and I have got full faith in you and I wish that you can deve- lope this line of service to the society. If possible, please send me the address of Prasad; I want to write him one letter. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-13 Allston Mass. 23rd May, 1968 My Dear Krishna das, Please accept my blessings. I am re- ceiving your twigs for washing my teeth very regularly and I thank you very much. What about Krishna’s flute you attempted to prepare? I think you can prepare one silver flute and I am inserting measure- ment. It should be with golden relief work—raised embroidery-like designs— on the body of the flute. The length of the flute may be 5 inches, and it should be 1/4” thick. Now I shall be glad to know what is your credit balance in the bank. It may be that I may call you to go with me to India at any moment. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-14 Allston, Mass. 27th May, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have safely reached N.Y. Till now I have 400 Letters from Srila Prabhupada received no reply from the Canadian Im- migration Department, and I have just now received one letter from Janardan stating therein that even if I go to Montreal pending my immigration application, there will be no difficulty. Therefore I have decided to start for Montreal just af- ter the second of June anyday. I have sent Goursundar to the temple to contact him by phone informing this matter, as well as I have sent him one letter by airmail just now. So my going to Montreal is now fixed up. Now, so far American Immigration is concerned; you will try for it after my de- parture for Montreal. And if you come there sometimes after the first week of June or by the 9th of June, then Janardan, yourself and myself may consult and then take steps what to do in new chapter. So far purchasing the church it appears to be hopeful. So if Mr. Kallman will ad- vise his banker to send a letter addressed to Mr. Muzzy of the Presbyterian Church that the bank will pay $270 per month, then I think the transaction can be finished without difficulty. Of course we will regu- larly pay Mr. Kallman or his banker this $270 without fail, because we are already paying everywhere more than $270 as rental. So there will be no difficulty to re- ceive the money from San Francisco, and if required, Jayananda can give Mr. Kallman in writing about the assurement. I am enclosing herewith the letter of Jay- ananda dated May 24, 1968, and I hope this will clarify the whole thing. Please do the needful. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, P.S. Let me know what you have done with Dia Nippon, United Shipping Cor- poration & Dwarkin if possible send the copies of letters addressed to them, ACB 68-5-15 Allston, Mass. 28th May, 1968 My Dear Harer Nama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 24, 1968, along with the news article pub- lished in the Daily Californian, p.9, on Wednesday May 22, 1968. The pictures and the statement are very appropriate and I hope this article will attract the At- tention of many students. Actually this Krishna Consciousness movement is the greatest need of the present day situation of the world. It is au- thorized approved and very old, and prac- tical. It can be accepted by any person in any part of the world; that is already tested. Now each one of us has got a great responsibility to spread this movement as far as possible and that is the greatest ser- vice to the suffering humanity. You are a student of psychology, so you can study this movement more clearly than others, and try to spread it to your best capacity. Regarding your 2 questions: For offer- ing prasadam simply prayers to the Spiri- tual Master is sufficient. The process is that everything is offered to the Spiritual Master, and the Spiritual Master is sup- posed to offer the same foodstuff to the Lord. When a thing is offered to the Spiri- tual Master, he immediately offers to the Lord. That is the system, and as we come by parampara system, it is our duty to go through the right channel—namely, first the Spiritual Master, then Lord Chaitanya, and then Krishna. So when we chant pray- ers, we do this, Bande ham Sri Guru... and gradually to the Goswamis, then to Lord Chaitanya, and then to Radha Krishna. That is the praying system. But offering the prasadam to present every- thing before the Spiritual Master whose picture is also in the altar, means that the Spiritual Master will take care of offer- ing the foodstuff to the Lord. Therefore MAY, 1968 401 simply by chanting the prayer tothe Spiri- tual Master, everything will be complete. I think a copy of the Daily Californian in which the article has appeared may be sent to each center of our society, and by that they will be encouraged. If possible, kindly arrange this. I am going to Montreal, sometimes next week after June 2nd. So you can write me letters at the Montreal address as follows: ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE; 3720 Park Avenue; Montreal 18, Quebec, Canada. Also, please send copies of the news article to our different centers, the addresses are as follows: [PAGE MISSING] 68-5-16 Allston, Mass. 28th May, 1968 My Dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of May 14, 1968, and I have noted your kind senti- ments with appreciation. Don’t wait for next life for finishing up the business of Krishna Consciousness; try to finish up this business in this life. And pray to Krishna that if your Krishna Conscious- ness business is unfinished in this life, He may give you chance to take birth in a family where the father and mother are in Krishna Consciousness. That is a great opportunity. Similarly, the child who is coming in your family is supposed to have executed Krishna Consciousness in his previous life. I have not heard from your husband in many days. After your child- birth, does he propose to go to Germany for preaching work? We want to establish one center in Germany. As my permanent visa in USA has not been granted, so Iam going to Montreal for some time, then af- ter my business in Montreal is finished, I may go to London, and then to Germany. That is my desire. I do not know what is Krishna’s desire. We can discuss this fur- ther at that time. In the absolute world there is no dis- tinction as me, or he, and I. Krishna and His representative is the same. Just like Krishna can be present simultaneously in millions of places. Similarly, the Spiritual Master also can be present wherever the disciple wants. A Spiritual Master is the principle, not the body. Just like a televi- sion can be seen in thousands of places by the principle of relay monitoring. This seeing of “‘spirits’’ has no connec- tion with Krishna Consciousness—it is halucination. Yes, so far your coming child is con- cerned, I shall give name to it when it is born. No, circumsision is not done in Vedic culture, it is not required. Yes, to make a Krishna Consciousness coloring book for children is a very good idea for serving and for spreading Krishna Consciousness to the young children. Please do it. I will give you hints how toddo it; just let me know when you are ready to begin. It will be a great service. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-17 Allston, Mass. 28th May, 1968 My Dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of May 24, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. Sambhu is the principle by which the Lord impregnates the material Nature with the seeds of living entities. Durga is expansion of internal energy and Radharani is the quintesence of Internal Energy. In that sense Durga is expansion of Radharani. Brahma is the father of Ru- dra or Sambhu, therefore Brahma is the 402 Letters from Srila Prabhu pada original creature for creation. Generally Sambhu is the creator of many many de- mons. Demons are therefore mostly wor- shippers of Lord Shiva. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-18 Allston, Mass. 28th May, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of May 27, 1968, and noted the contents carefully. As you are married, there is no need of separation as you are practicing artificially. You must live just like a respectable married couple and earn money as a Grihastra, and spend 50% for Krishna—that is the real pro- gram. If you have no sufficient men to form the Kirtan party at the present moment, you can go on chanting as usual in the tem- ple. There is no need of becoming hasty. One or two boys from S.F. can join you at any moment, that is not a problem. But you must have some men locally. The pro- cess should be at least 4 to 6 men must be competent to begin the chanting with in- struments and the members of the audi- ence should be requested to join them. If you can make this practice successful, you can go anywhere. Four to six men, and the members of the audience will join together, and then it will be very success- ful Kirtan performance. Just try to prac- tice like this. I am going to Montreal next week and after reaching there I shall con- sider when and how to go to London, or any other part of Europe. At present it is not yet fixed up. [PAGE MISSING] 68-5-19 28th May, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated May 24, 1968, and it is very encouraging. I am sure Krishna will help you more and more because you are sincere servant of Krishna. He blessed in your endeavor and everything will be all right gradually, and it will be a great enlightenment for you how God helps those who help them- selves, especially in the service of God. Read Srimad Bhagwatam and chant Hare Krishna and all other things will be adjusted automatically. Offer my bless- ings to Sriman Hal, who is taking gradual interest in Krishna Consciousness. I am going to Montreal by middle of the first week of June, and I will stay there for some days. You can send me letters at that address after first of June: Hope you are feeling well. Your ever well-wisher ACB 68-5-20 Allston, Mass. 30th May, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated May 25, 1968, and I have also received one letter signed by three of you, Mukunda, your- self and Woomapati, recommending the new boy Stanley Broderick. I have re- ceived his beads also, and I am sending him the beads properly initiated, and his initiated name is Sachisuta. Sachisuta means the Son of Sachi, or Lord Chaita- nya. So I am very pleased that this boy is attracted to Krishna Consciousness and he is being initiated by the Grace of Krishna. Please try to save him from the hands of Maya. MAY, 1968 403 Regarding your personal sentiments not being in agreement with Woomapati: I am very sorry that this thing has hap- pened. We are preaching Krishna Con- sciousness, the greatest platform of harmony, and if we dissent amongst our- selves, and disunite, it doesn’t look very well. You are sinceremost servant of Krishna. I know that you have worked very good for Krishna. I think you should not be disturbed by minor disagreement. If you think that you cannot agree with Woomapati, you can stop discussing with him, and if there is any point of judgment, you can refer to me. I am always at your service. So long we are individual souls, there must be disagreement also, because that is the symptom of individuality. But when such individual is surrendered unto Krishna, there should not be any disagree- ment. Of course, Subal is working alone, and he is doing very nice to his best ca- pacity, but if you want to go there, I have no objection because it will be a great help to Subal. But I know also that much de- pends on you about the L.A. temple, and I am afraid if you go, the temple in L.A. may suffer. Therefore, I would advise that you should consult with Mukunda about this because he is very calm and coolheaded boy, and then decide whether to go to Santa Fe or not. I am writing sepa- rately to Mukunda also, as well as to Woomapati in this connection, and I wish to know why there is disagreement. There cannot be any disagreement in discharge of duties in Krishna Consciousness. I am leaving for Montreal on June 3rd, 1968, at 11:00 a.m. and you know Mon- treal address so that you can reply this let- ter there. Again I say that don’t be agitated on some flimsy ground but cooperate on the platform of Krishna Consciousness. Hope this will find you all right. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-21 Allston, Mass. 30th May, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your recommendation for initiation to Stanley, whose name is now Sachisuta. In the meantime, I have re- ceived another letter from Aniruddha that he is in disagreement with Woomapati. I do now know what is the basis of this dis- agreement, but when you are there, I re- quest you to see to the matter and try to mitigate their illusory disagreement. Even there is disagreement, the platform should be Krishna Consciousness, and in that platform if there is disagreement there is no inebriety. Perhaps you have heard that my appli- cation for permanent visa has been denied on the ground that I filed my application while I came as a visitor. So I am leaving for Montreal on the 3rd of June, and sec- ond chapter for trying for visa there will begin. I do not know what is the result in future, but this time I have desired that I may go to London, and try to establish a center there for European activities. I have not heard for many days about your good wife, Janaki; I hope she is do- ing well. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-22 Allston, Mass. 30th May, 1968 My Dear Sachisuta, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to receive your letter dated May 26, 1968, along with beads, and I am so pleased that you are seeking for being ini- tiated. So, after due chanting I am sending both your beads by separate first class 404 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda post parcel. Receive it and chant without any offense. The 10 kinds of offenses are like this: Blaspheming the Lord’s devotee Considering the Lord and the demi- gods on the same level—or assuming there are many gods Neglecting the orders of the spiritual master Minimizing the authority of the Scriptures Interpreting the Holy Name of God Committing sin on the strength of chanting Instructing the glories of the Lord’s Name to the unfaithful Comparing the Holy Name with material piety Inattention while chanting the Holy Name Attachment to material things while engaged in the practice of chanting So you follow those principles as well as the four restrictive rules, namely; No addiction to indulgence in any form of intoxication, including coffee, tea and cigarettes No illicit sexual relationships Must be strictly vegetarian No gambling And the other standard practices for initi- ated devotees: Must attend evening and morning classes Should not extensively mix with non-devotees Should not eat food cooked by non-devotees Should not waste time in idle talks Should not become engaged in frivolous sports Should always chant and sing the Lord’s Holy Names Chanting as enunciated by Lord Chaitanya is the only means for spiritual realization in this age of dissention. So chant at least 16 rounds daily, and for other help you can ask assistance from your elderly God- brothers. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-5-23 Allston, Mass. Los Angeles 30th May, 1968 My Dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. A few days ago I received a nice letter from you in which you wrote nice things, and I was so glad that now you are making progress positively towards Krishna Conscious- ness. It is understood that Aniruddha and yourself are sometimes not in agreement in subjects concerning Krishna Con- sciousness. Of course, disagreements may be there, but there should not be dis- sention. I shall be glad to hear from you what is the point of dissention, and if it isn’t very serious, I think you should ask Aniruddha not to be affected by such flimsy disagreement. I am very glad to learn that L.A. tem- ple is improving day by day. Similarly, the temples in other places are also improv- ing, especially Buffalo, Santa Fe, and Boston. I am starting for Montreal on the 3rd of June, 1968, and I shall be glad to hear from you at our Montreal address. Thanking you. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-5-24 Allston, Mass. 31st May, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in re- ceipt of your letter post-dated May 27, MAY, 1968 405 1968, and I thank you very much for the check for $80.00 for my book account. I am so glad that you are selling my books nicely. Yes, always try to sell our books and Back To Godhead, as far as possible. That is our main business. Iam so pleased for your valuable lov- ing sentiments upon me and this will keep you advanced in Krishna Consciousness, rest assured. Next time when I come back to San Francisco, some of the boys who have regularly chanted 16 rounds at least for one year shall be initiated for the sec- ond time, and offered sacred thread to rec- ognize them as complete Brahmins. I am going to Montreal on Monday and shall see how things are going there. Krishna willing, I may be staying at Mon- treal for some time to organize the Tem- ple as well as some Indian visitors. And I have in mind to start 2 or 3 branches there, one in Vancouver. Vancouver is nearer to San Francisco and if I get chance to go to Vancouver, surely I shall come back to San Francisco from there. Regarding your seeking permission for selling some leather goods and water pipes: I say yes, you can sell. We have nothing to do with these things, but in spe- cial cases, if somebody asks us to sell in- toxicants or similar things, we cannot do that. The pipes are meant for persons who are already addicted to intoxication. So if we don’t sell it, it does not mean it will counteract intoxication, even though indi- rectly it is connected with intoxication. We are not having any connection with these things, but you are selling for getting some profit for Krishna. You cannot dis- satisfy your supplier who are eager to sell like that. But anyway, in all such odd cir- cumstances as this, you should ask my permission. But be careful that you may not be attached to such business. If re- quired, we can give up such business at any moment. I am always thinking of you, and I am also feeling separation of you all. But we have to work for Krishna diligently and with faith and love. Hope this will find you all right, and keep in good health. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JUNE —— 68-6-1 Allston, Mass. Ist June, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of May 25, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Yes, I received the medicine intact, and I thank you for sending it. Iam going to Montreal on Monday, June 3rd, and if I find Montreal quite suitable, I shall call you and some other students to as- semble there to practice Samkirtan in a sys- tematic way. Of course, chanting Hare Krishna does not require any artificial artis- tic sense, but still, if the procedure is pre- sented rhythmically, then the people may be attracted more by the transcendental music. So, Hansadutta asked me about you and I have said that you will be able to come as soon as I call you, so first of all let me go there, then I shall let you know what to do. For the present, you endeavor to make the Rathajatra Festival grand successful. You should arrange the procession and procedure so nicely that all the neighbor- ing people may be attracted to join the procession. Yes, your question about will and the individual and the difference between them: Thinking, feeling and willing is the subtle covering of the individual soul. This thinking, feeling, and willing is ac- celerated by the individual soul. In mate- rial contact, they are manifested in Perverted way. When the individual soul voluntarily surrenders to Krishna and acts in a routine method, thinking, feeling and willing becomes purified and at that time. there is no difference between the indi- vidual soul and will. Shyamsundar is a good servitor from the very beginning, and so is Harsharani. Iam very much obliged to you all that you are taking care of Jaggannatha so nicely. The more you make the Diety of Jaggan- natha attractively dressed, the more you shall become spiritually attractive. If Jaggannatha desires, then I may also join you, but the idea of making San Fran- cisco as New Jaggannatha Puri is my tran scendental dream, and if you fulfill this dream, I shall be so much obliged to you all. The example of Naradji, that when he re- alized Krishna in his previous life, that life and next life, there is no difference. The ex- ample is given sometimes in the coconut skin when it is dried up, the fruit within the covering of coconut is hard. And if the coco- nut is shaken, it is found that the coconut fruit is moving within. Because it has dried up and broken away from the inner walls of the coconut skin. So it has nothing to do with the outer skin, even though it appears that it is within that skin. Similarly, when one is purely in Krishna Consciousness, it may appear that he is within the material ex- istence, but actually he has nothing to do with it. He is dried up, like the coconut fruit; and that process of drying-up is forgetting all sense gratification, and executing Krishna Consciousness full time. So, when one is purely in Krishna Consciousness, his present life and in future life are identical. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 408 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-6-2 Allston, Mass. lst June, 1968 My Dear Krishnadas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your kind letter dated May 25, 1968, and I am very pleased that al- though you are the youngest of my disci- ples, amongst the boys, your sentiments are very highly developed. Please con- tinue to feel Krishna in the same way, and chant regularly, without fail, you will im- prove more and more. By your gracious connection with your family, all the mem- bers of your family, namely, your sister, your two younger brothers, as well as your mother, are coming in contact with Krishna Consciousness. As you are the eldest son of your mother, it is your duty to guide them properly so that they can also become advanced in Krishna Conscious- ness. Certainly it is a fact that all of you are combined together in a family way by the Grace of Krishna. And by His Grace only you have come in contact with me. Personally I have no credit for myself, but I am trying to act as faithful servant of my predecessors and just presenting without any adulteration the message which I have received from my Spiritual Master. Simi- larly, if this message is presented by you all who have accepted me as the Spiritual Master, then all the people of the world may be benefited by receiving this transcendent message of Krishna Con- sciousness. Try to execute this mission wholeheartedly and faithfully, and all of you try to broadcast the message to your best capacity. I am so glad to learn that your two brothers are growing very nicely, and I hope in future they will be great help to this missionary activities, and so I think also of your nice sister, Saradia. Please try to guide them prop- erly. I note that you have got now $700.00; keep it intact and increase it up to $1200.00 at least, so that in case we have to go to India, you will have to purchase a return ticket. I am going to Montreal and later developments will be known to you gradually. Yes, that shark is all right. Thank you very much for your offerings. Your humbleness is very much appre- ciated by me. This humbleness is the sign of progress in Krishna Consciousness. A Krishna Consciousness person thinks al- ways about himself as the lowest creature in the world, and the more one thinks like that he becomes elevated more and more. A Krishna Conscious person is never falsely puffed-up; he is satisfied with his humble position as the servant of the ser- vant of the servant of Krishna. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-3 Montreal Sth June, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your five-pages letter dated May 31, 1968, and I have been informed of your telephone conversation with LaNarden ablut my visa appeal. To tell you frankly, I have no faith in the lawyers; they promise something but they do some- thing else. From my last experience with Mr. Ypssalentin and the real estate law- yers, I cannot advise you to pay $200.00 immediately to the lawyers and then de- pend on his good mercy. In the paper for warded by Boston Immigration Depart- ment, it is clearly stated there that that this decision cannot be appealed, so I would advise yiu to make a fresh case under sec- tion 3, religious ministry. I am a bonafide JUNE, 1968 409 religious minister and I have got bonafide certificates confirming my religious min- istership, and I have got 8 centers who re- quire my help in the current condition. And therefore, if it is possible, try to get my permanentresidence as religious min- ister. In our last attempt to get permanent visa on the basis of religious ministership, it is not rejected. They have not decided my case by determination on my religious ministership—that is clearly stated. So my religious ministership is not denied and you can file a new case to have me as religious minister for the institution, which is incorporated as religious society. I think that will be a strong case, and if they deny my qualification as minister- ship, then we can appeal on good grounds with proof that I am a bonafide spiritual master. Other section number C, in which you have mentiond that there is no American to conduct this service, may be refuted on the ground that I have got so many American disciples, and why they will not conduct; so this position is not very sound in my opinion. For the time being, I am here, and if youthink that it is possible to submit fresh application under section no. 3, on the grounds of my religious ministership, then do it immediately, and I shall wait here forthree months. And if it is success- ful then the immigration will be very nice. Otherwise, I shall proceed to London and try to establish a center there. My other point is that my permanent vise in U.S.A. is not so important, asis the publication of books, and circulating them as widely as Possible. I think therefore that you should give more attention to the publication de- partment. Even if I do not get permanent Visa, it is not very harmful. I understand that the government of the U.S.A. is disgusted with the so-called Swamis because they have exploited the People in so many wasy. That is a fact. And if I would have been in the govern- ment, I would have also considered like that. So, they have not got a very good opinion about these rascal Swamis. Under the circumstances, it will be difficult to get me admitted as a Swami, although I am not a Swami of the rascal group. But we have to prove it by action that this Swami is not like those Swamis. This re- mark was made by Mr. Alan Burke of the television company; He introduced me to the public as, “Here is a real Swami,” and he showed me all respectful compliments. Anyway, I am not after respectful compli- ments by the public. But I am concerned more about my disciples. I want to see them quite able to preach this sublime doctrine of Krishna Consciousness, and therefore I wish to stay. Otherwise, I’m not attracted for any place, either hell or heaven, Anyway, if some lawyer assures that this religious ministership which is so bonafide, can be established, thenyoucan promise him some sum of money after completion of the attempt. But I do not ad- vise you to appeal for the last decision. The letters which you have written to Dwarkin and United Shipping Corpora- tion is all right, and let me know what re- ply you get. So far my visa application in this coun- try, I do not know where I am. If you can, you can go to the Canadian Immigration Office in the Sth Avenue, and you can in- quire from them why they have not replied my letters. Do not disclose to them at present where I am, and then on hearing from you, I shall try to see the Immigration Officer here, if you so advise. For the present, you can inquire that the files were transfered from Los Angeles, to New York, which you undrstood from telephone con- versation to loa Angeles. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 410 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-6-4 Montreal 7th June, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Shyamsundar, Iam so glad to receive your letter dated May 30, 1968, redirected from Boston. Don’t mind very much that I have not re- ceived the permanent visa. I think it is Krishna’s desire and blessings; as a San- nyasin, I should not fix up at a certain place and take your service comfortably. It is not the desire of Krishna. He wants me travelling throughout the whole West- ern part of the world and therefore I think itis Krishna’s desire that now I shall shift my activities at least for some time in the European countries. So it is almost cer- tain that I’m going to London by the month of August. And if you all wish to come there, then you can prepare for the trip. So far I remember that you know German language as well as Dutch lan- guage, so after we have started our Lon- don branch, you shall have to go to Germany and I think Hansadutta can help you there, because he also knows some broken German. The whole idea is that if we can organize a nice Kirtan party which Mukunda can do, because he is music master, and if we travel in the European countries with this Kirtan party, sup- ported by our books and literature, I am sure it will be a great successful mission- ary work. I know both you and your wife are very sincere servitors of the Lord, and if Malati delivers her baby during the Ra- thajatra festival, then she can take one month’s rest in July, and may be able to ac- company you with her newly born Krishna Consciousness baby. For the time being, finish your work in the hands, and side by side try to chalk out a program how we shall propagate Krishna Con- sciousness in the European countries. Your letter under reply has very much en- couraged me and I thank you once more for this nice sentiments. Hope you are both well, and offer my blessings to Sri- mati Malati and others. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-5 Montreal 7th June, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am so pleased to receive your nice letter dated 3rd of June, 1968, with enclosure of two checks, one for $1000.00 and one for $30.00. It is so kind of you that you are interested in publication of Srimad Bha- gavatam for the good of the entire human society. May Krishna bless you for your this magnanimous philanthropy for the human society. There are many philan- thropists, humanitarianists, but the best philanthropist is he who can award the people in general Krishna Consciousness. Actually the sufferings of the whole world or the entire universe in material condi- tion, is due to lack of Krishna Conscious- ness. Therefore, the best service to our brother is to awaken Krishna Conscious- ness. Your judgment that because you think that you cannot take part in the trans- lation work, therefore, you have decided to contribute for its publication. This dic- tation from within your heart from Krishna is quite in order. For serving the Lord, we require to sacrifice our life, our wealth, our intelligence, and our words. One can serve the Lord with these four possessions; if not, with three, if not, then with two or even one, and that is sufficient to please the Supreme Personality of God- head. I wish that you can utilize your best talents in business organization and the result utilize for Krishna’s satisfaction is on the absolute platform. To make the idea more clear, if I am translating Srimad JUNE, 1968 411 Bhagavatam, and if you are contributing for its publication and helping for its dis- tribution, this means there is no differ- ence between your service and my service. In the absolute platform there is no such distinction. And service is always on the absolute platform. One has to make the best use of his talent for the service of Krishna. That is wanted. Best example is Arjuna, that he utilized his talents, mili- tary science, in the service of Krishna. Brahmananda has come day before yesterday here in Montreal to see me in connection with Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and about my visa. I have told him that do not bother about the visa. For the present, better utilize their energy in the matter of publication work. Our Teachings of Lord Chaitanya is going nicely and it will be out for sale by Sep- tember, and as soon as I find this book is nicely printed, then I shall immediately begin printing our Srimad Bhagavatam from these printing companies. I find their printing work very satisfactory. I have therefore stopped printing in India, but I shall require at least $5000.00 for printing each part of Srimad Bhagavatam. Five parts of Srimad Bhagavatam can be printed immediately. That means I require $25000.00. Anyway, Krishna will pro- vide for this, but I shall request you to make your point either by selling or by contributing, you try to finance as far as possible for these great publications. Iam advising the Japan printing company to send you directly 2500 copies of Teach- ings of Lord Chaitanya. If you can sell 2500 at $5.00 each, that will be $12500.00, so there will be no scarcity of money if we can sell our publications quickly after being printed. Then we can repeat the publication one right after an- other. The best process for selling books is to get them reviewed by various im- portant papers. There are hundreds and thousands of influential papers in your country, and if they are reviewed, the books will be very quickly sold. Very soon you will get also six mridangas, and other musical instruments from India. I think you are keeping a separate account of my books and as soon as you receive books, you just credit in the book account and whatever you pay, you may debit in the same way. That will keep clear the book account. I am planning to go to London from here although for the present, the program is for two to three months in Montreal. Please make the Ratha jatra festival as suc- cessful as possible. I understand from the letters of other devotees that San Fran- cisco is arranging to get at least 1000 to 5000 people to participate in the proces- sion. If they all chant Hare Krishna with the procession, it will be a great success of our movement. Try to fit some loud- speakers for the principle singer which will be vibrated or answered by the whole audience. Thanking you once more for your kind contribution. Hope this will find you in good health and right Krishna Conscious- ness. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-6 Montreal 7th June, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated June 2, 1968. Gargamuni’s remark that your book ‘“SWAMIJI’’ may be interesting only to the admirers and disciples is right. . . so if you are preparing some book like that, make it so nicely that it may be ac- cepted by general public. And for this 412 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda purpose, it is better to add with the pic- tures my speeches, which are of public in- terest. There are so many tape records of my speeches, you can select some of them to be printed with the pictures. I think that will be better attracting the general pub- lic. It is better you take a little more time but do it very nicely. Our London program is gradually be- coming a tangible fact. And I am receiv- ing letters from California devotees which are very encouraging. I think I shall be starting for London in the month of Au- gust. Certainly, your conclusion is very nice; we should always depend on Krishna. But for service, we can make our plan, and Krishna will help us. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Yamuna devi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter dated June 3, 1968. The ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEM- PLE will perpetually continue as such. But in spite of that, San Francisco shall be gradually transformed into New Jaggan- natha Puri. That is my plan, and try to help in that way. The sign on the temple should read: ISKCON SRI SRI RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE. Yes, please decorate Jaggannatha with very attractive nice clothing and orna- ments, helmets, as brightly and magnifi- cently as possible. The sample of decorating Jaggannatha is already in- structed to Harsharani, and in that way you can make arrangements. There shall be sufficient flower garlands for them daily also. The decoration should be so attractive that people when seeing Jaggannatha will forget all attractiveness of Maya. Then it will be successful, and actually, this is the process of decorating Jaggannatha. Our eyes are attracted by the beauty of Maya, but if our eyes are attracted by the beauty of Krishna, the Jaggannatha, then there is no more chance of our being attracted by Maya. In other words, when seeing Jag- gannath nicely decorated, we become freed from the clutches of Maya. I am sure if you and your husband, Mukunda and Janaki, and Shyamasundar and Malati join, certainly the London pro- gram will be a grand success. I have al- ready written about this to your husband, and you can know from him about this program. The report of the Brahmachary classes is very good; I do not mind that it is only two boys; if you work combinedly and very nicely, that is the program. We can not expect that everyone shall become Krishna Consciousness, because only the most pious and fortunate living entities can join this movement. But we are giving chance fo everyone and it is up to him, to take advantage or not. You will be glad to know that our the super most contribution to the world, namely, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, is coming out very soon. The letter composition is already complete, and I am seeing the final proof, and the book will be ready by the month of Sep- tember. So, if you can organize a nice Kir- tan party backed by this book, our program will be a grand success. Let us hope for the best by the Grace of Lord Krishna. I hope this will find you in good health. Hoping you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-7 Montreal 8th June, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard anything from you in long time what is the situation with publication of our Back To Godhead. So I am anxious to JUNE, 1968 413 know when it will be again published, and if it can be regularly printed, even on our mimeograph machine. It is too much im- portant that it must be distributed regu- larly, as it is the backbone of our mission. So, even it is not printed very expensively and highly, still, it must be distributed even in mimeograph copy. And then in fu- ture we can print it very nicely, when there is the money there to do it. So please see to it, and please let me know the posi- tion by return of post as soon as possible. I hope you are well there, and deliver- ing your nice lectures for all to hear and enjoy. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-8 10th June, 1968 My Dear Harivilas, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated June 10, after a long time, and I have gladly noted your activities in that part. I think your chanting of Hare Krishna regularly is be- ing responded by Krishna and He is giving you good sense how to make preaching propaganda on behalf of His Lordship. It is confirmed in the Srimad Bhagavatam, as you might have seen it, that one who hears about Krishna, for him, Krishna helps in various ways and the first thing is that He cleanses the mind of all dusty mat- ter and by continuing such chanting and by reading regularly Srimad Bhagavatam, one becomes gradually freed from the in- fluence of passion and ignorance, and thus becomes situated in goodness. In such platform one can engage oneself in serious devotional service, and thus one becomes illuminated with the transcen- dental knowledge of Krishna. This stage is called liberated stage, and at this time one becomes freed from all doubts and material bondage, and thus his life be- comes successful. Please try to follow this principle, and I am sure you will be happy and successful in your execution of this Krishna Consciousness movement. As you have liked the place Hrishi- kesh, why not try to establish yourself there and organize a center for our ISKCON there. I know that many Euro- pean and American students go in that part of India to search out real spiritual en- lightenment, but unfortunately they fall in the trap of so-called yogis and are misled. If you can draw such searching students to this real platform, spiritual platform of Krishna Consciousness, it will be a great service to the western students, as well as to Lord Krishna. As regarding the Deities, I may inform you that immediately I require one pair of Deity for Montreal, and next, another pair for London. Besides that, we have got already 9 branches in your country of USA, and for each of them I require one pair for installation. I do not know how I can get these Deities, but they are manu- factured in Vrindaban. I do not know how I can approach the Indian people, at large, but I am approaching Krishna only. If you can manage, I can send you 1000 record albums, and the price of such records will be about $4000, which means according to Indian exchange, about 40,000 Rs. Now if you can manage to sell these records and/or distribute them free to respectable persons, and take some contribution for the Deity, that will be nice, instead of appealing as suggested by Mr. Poddar. Mr. Poddar or Mr. Lal or Mr. Dalmia, all of them know about our activities, and Mr. Dalmia tld me that there is demand for the record albums and I already sent 5 record albums to him. Now, if you can arrange with their coop- eration to exchange 1000 record albums for 20 pairs of Murtis, it will be a great service to the society. On one side, we 414 Letters from Srila Prabhupada shall be able to distribute our Hare Krishna chanting, and the other side, we shall have 20 pairs of Deities for installing at least in 20 places. I think you can do this service conjointly, Achyutananda, and JayaGovinda and yourself. And then grad- ually you can develop two or three centers in India, one in Vrindaban, one in Hrishi- kesh, and one in Bombay. I do not bother about Calcutta because there are many centers of my God-brothers there. Re- cently I have received one letter from one of our senior God-brothers, he is living in Bombay. I have suggested him to open a branch of our society and if he agrees then I shall ask some of you to go there. Many other students are ready to go to India, and if you work con jointly, without quarreling amongst yourselves, a tremendous ser- vice can be done towards the expansion of our mission. Please therefore try to exe- cute this program peacefully for the sake of Lord Krishna, to Whom you have all dedicated your lives. Regarding preaching work: If you sim- ply reproduce verbatim the purports which I have given in the Srimad Bha- gavatam, and chant Hare Krishna with ec- stasy, that will be sufficient for your preaching work, and as you do it seriously and sincerely, Krishna gives you more and more strength for this noble missionary work. No, there is no need of sending the Kal- yan books as you have mentioned, not yet. Just read Srimad Bhagavatam, our three volumes, regularly and repeatedly. It is no use reading many books, it is better to as- similate one book and that is sufficient. I have received no reply from Achy- utananda for a long time, and I have sent a strong reminder to JayaGovinda. Next time I will write about his cooperating with you in answering your letters promptly, and sending you literature as you require for your preaching work. I am so glad that your Kirtan is driving away the Mayavadi philosophers from that part of the country, and Hardvar and Hrishikesh are full of impersonalists. If you can drive them away by your vibration of Hari Kirtan, Krishna will be so much pleased and Lord Chaitanya will shower His blessings upon you. Yes, in New York they are organizing very nice Kirtan party and getting good response from the public. They are col- lecting $30-$40 in each Kirtan perfor- mance, and selling Back To Godhead. So you try to execute this program and Krishna will give you necessary intelli- gence be assured. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-9 Montreal 11th June, 1968 Mr. J. A. Hamilton Jr. District Director United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service John Fitzgerald Kennedy Federal Building Government Centre, Boston, Mass. 02203 USA Dear Mr. Hamilton, Replying your letter of May 13, 1968, Reference No. A17 978 480, I beg to in- form you that as per your direction I have left Boston before June 13, 1968 (3rd June by Northeastern Airlines) and now I am staying at the above address as non- immigrant visitor for three months. In your Order of Denial, you have clearly mentioned in paragraph 4 that your denial order was not on the basis of my qualification of Religious Minister, but on your discretion for the reason that I submitted my application just after a fort- night of my arrival in USA, and as such, I was not a bonafide non-immigrant. I did JUNE, 1968 415 —_— not know what was the technical mistake on my part in this connection, but I hon- estly submitted the application after con- sulting your Calcutta American Consulate and our Indian Embassy in Washington D.C. and I have their letters of confirma- tion with me. In your Notice of Denial of May 3, 1968, you have mentioned that there is no appeal from this decision. As such, I did not prefer to appeal in this decision, but I left USA as per your direction. Now I am simply requesting you to give me your val- ued direction what to do next. It is a fact that I am a recognized Reli- gious Minister and in your country there are seven branches of the ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLES in dif- ferent parts. This ISKCON organization is duly incorporated in New York State and is registered as N.G.O. by the United Nations. I am the principal Acharya or Chief Minister of the organization. Even after receipt of your Notice of Denial, I was called by you, and I have already sub- mitted all the above mentioned facts for your record. Now I simply wish to know what to do next. My presence in your country is es- sential for proper management of the So- ciety, ISKCON, as mentioned above. I have sufficient means to maintain myself in the USA, and my health is already ex- amined by your Health Department, and I am fit. If you now consider my case as Re- ligious Minister and allow me the perma- nent visa, you can do so now because you have not determined on this point. Or, otherwise, ] am seeking your valued ad- vice only as what to do next so that I can get immigration visa as Religious Minis- ter. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply. Sincerely yours, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-10 Montreal 11th June, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter, (undated) and noted the contents carefully. As Woomapati has decided to leave Los Angeles, I would like that he may go to Santa Fe and help Subal there, because he is struggling alone there. I think you will also agree with me and try to send him there as there is great necessity of another Brahmachary to co- operate in that temple. Regarding my visa: I think it is Krishna’s desire that I shall go to England for the time being and start a center there which is long overdue. I wish to start for London latest by September 1, 1968 and I think you should prepare to go there by that time, otherwise it will be too cold in October and November. But if you go there in the beginning of September, then you may be aclimatized gradually. Your presence in the London center with other assistants will be great helpful, consider- ing the fact that I wish to form a nice Kir- tan party consisting of 12 heads—2 mridanga players, 1 harmonium player in melody, 1 tambura player, and at least 6 cymbal players. In this way 12 heads shall perform Kirtan very rhythmically and melodiously. The harmonium should be practiced just to follow the song; not sim- ply for tuning. I think you can very well organize this Samkirtan party, and if we have a successful Samkirtan party, with me, backed by our books and literature, we can make a nice propaganda of this sublime movement in all the European cities. And if we are successful in Europe then we may go to other countries also in Asia. In India also if we go with this Samkirtan party we shall be very much welcome and there is great possibility of cooperation of the richer section of India. So I am thinking of organizing this nice 416 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Samkirtan party very seriously and you may also think in that way. I have already heard that in San Fran- cisco they are going to celebrate Rathaja- tra festival very successfully. In New York also they will perform this ceremony, and most probably here in Montreal the cere- mony will be performed. The Montreal temple is very big and spacious, and there is good prospect for organizing this tem- ple. SoI shall try my best to organize this center with the cooperation of Indians here, and then I shall start for London. You are learning some techniques about playing mridanga is very nice; that will help others also to know how to play. [PAGE MISSING] 68-6-11 12th June, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I am in due reciept of your letter of June 10th, 1968, and noted the contents carefully. Yes, you can have the band play there in the temple as you are in great need of money to carry on there. When we are in need of money to carry on Krishna’s work, then we can resort to whatever means there is available. So long it is al- ways for Krishna and never for personal sense gratification. So you can try to get some money in that way. You can observe Rathajatra Festival there on 27th june. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB 68-6-12 Montreal 12th June, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of June 9th, 1968, and it is very kind of you that you are seriously thinking about Krishna Con- sciousness movement and trying to en- gage yourself more and more seriously. My blessings are always with you. You are very sincere boy trying your best to serve Krishna and by His Grace you are quite fit for this business, and considering all these points, I have entrusted Back To Godhead in your hand. Because this paper is the be- ginning of my spiritual life. During the time of my Guru Maharaj’s passing away, His last instruction was to me that “You try to preach whatever you have learned from me in English, and that will do good to you and the people who will hear you.” This instruction was given to me in 1936, and I started this paper in 1944. So during my householder life I was printing this pa- per and almost distributing free, and some of them were paying me subscrip- tion, and some of them not. But I was try- ing my best at my cost. You have seen the old articles about my tendency in this re- gard, and please try to follow this princi- ple and improve the condition of this Paper as you think best. You have got full liberty to make it acceptable to the general public, keeping pace with our principles of Krishna Consciousness. And as I have told you several times that I am awaiting for the day when this paper will take the shape of Life magazine or similar other magazines, in the matter of its popularity. From India this paper has been brought to America, with this hope that American young boys like you will take interest in spreading this sublime gospel of Krishna Consciousness. By the by, I require you to find out the duplicate copies of Srimad Bhagavatam, 2nd Canto, and a few chapters of the 3rd Canto, which are lying in my closet in my room, and send to me immediately. I want to prepare it for printing in Japan just after the printing of TLC is finished. I have de- cided it now definitely that all my printing works now shall be done in Japan. In JUNE, 1968 417 America it is too expensive, and in India it is too much botheration. Therefore in fu- ture if there is money sufficient I wish to print each volume of my book, 5000 cop- ies. Now, very soon we shall get 5000 copies of TLC and we have to organize the sales propaganda. If there is sale, then there is no scarcity of matter for printing. Mukunda has written that he is acquainted with some man for selling Back To God- heads, and you can just contact him to know further about it. I am sending you today the balance book sheets of TLC to Brahmananda. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami While posting this letter I have received your second letter also. I understand that you are purchasing a printing machine. When you have the machine some body must join you to work anybody you like and I shall arrange for that. If it is possible to print Srimad Bhagwatam then you can immediately begin it & I shall pay for the paper, binding etc. We want to print them immediately. If you can actually print our books in your Iskcon Press there a great problem will be solved. And if not any one I shall work with you provided you can give me the visa to stay. Please let me know how far you are ahead in this pro- posal. Yours etc. ACB 68-6-13 Montreal 12th June, 1968 To whom it may concern: This is to certify that my disciples, Sri- man Achyutananda Brahmachary, Sriman JayaGovinda Brahmachary, and Sriman Harivilas Brahmachary, are sent to India under my instruction to study Sanskrit, Hindi, and Bengali. Our institution is duly incorporated in the state of New York as a religious society and is recognized by the United Nations, being listed in the N.G.O. section. Our mission is to spread the gospel of Lord Sri Chaitanya Maha- prabhu, love of God, throughout the whole world; and by the Grace of the Lord, we have established many centers in America and Canada for spreading this unique gospel of Lord Chaitanya Maha- prabhu, though Bhagavad Gita and Sri- mad Bhagavatam specifically. In each center we have got hundreds of disciples and followers, and our initiated disciples are strictly following the restrictions as principle, as follows: (1) no illicit sex life, (2) no intoxication, including coffee, tea, and cigarettes, (3) no gambling, (4) no meat eating. We have got both Brahma- charies and Householders as disciples, and all of them are following the above mentioned principles. The students and disciples are initiated according to autho- rized Pancharatriki regulations. Accord- ing to Srimad Bhagavatam and Bhagavad Gita, anyone, including so-called low born men, who may take shelter unto the Lotus Feet of Lord Krishna or His devo- tees, is sanctified by initiation process. KIRATAHUNANDHRAPULINDA- PULKASA ABHIRAKANKA YAVANAH KHASADAYAH YE’NYE CHA PAPA YADAPASRAYASRAYAH SUDHYANTI TASMAI PRABHAVISHNAVE NAMAH. How such thing can be possible is ex- plained in the Srimad Bhagavatam that by special all-pervading power of Vishnu this is possible. So, my above students have been sent to India specifically to study in the Bengali, Sanskrit, and Hindi lan- guages, because we have to present to the world so many English translated authen- tic literatures on Vaishnavism. Some of my books are being printed in Japan and some of them have been accepted to be published by Mssrs. MacMillan and Company of New York. So we require some American assistance specifically 418 Letters from Srila Prabhupada for this translating work. And for this pur- pose, we wish to send a batch of intelli- gent students in India and gradually establish a center there for English trans- lation publication of all Vaishnave litera- tures. We have got many friends in India, like Seth Jaydayal Dalmia and others, who are always very kind to us in spreading this movement all over the world. And I hope if some of my students living in In- dia, say 3 to 5 years, that there will be no difficulty for them. Further, I wish that my students who are initiated and have changed their former name into Vaishnav, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 12th June, 1968 68-6-14 Mr. Mittra UNITED SHIPPING CORPORATION 14/2, Old China Bazar Street, Room No. 18, Calcutta 1. INDIA Dear Mr. Mittra, I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 5, 1968, and have noted the contents. I cannot follow exactly what the account is; and a few days ago the president, Brahmananda, came to see me, and I un- derstand that he is regularly correspond- ing with you about the statement of account and other things. So I am busy in my propaganda work and I cannot just di- vert my attention inthis account business. So far the 15 cases of books, I have several times submitted the invoices and each time they are rejected. So I am fed up with this business. The best thing is that you kindly send me a copy of the invoice as you desire to be made and then I shall make as it is, and send it to you immedi- ately. Otherwise, my brain does not act how to make the invoice which will satisfy all concerned. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-15 Montreal 13th June, 1968 My Dear Krishna devi and Dinesh, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of May 31, 1968, which is duly in hand. I had not heard anything from you in long time, so I was very glad to hear that you are doing well. I am pleased to hear that you have so nicely installed the Jaggannatha Deities at your home, and that you are worshipping Them regularly with nice offerings of pra- sadam, incense and flowers, and also say- ing prayers before Them. That is very good. Please continue chanting and read- ing Srimad Bhagavatam before the Deity, and you will progress nicely. Yes, the coloring book idea is nice, but for now there is greater need of your ser- vice to Krishna in helping out the Santa Fe Temple. You have requested me in your letter to please advise you about your de- votional service, and I shall tell you frankly that the best thing for you to do now is to help the Santa Fe Temple finan- cially. You were originally entrusted with the responsibility of that branch, as you helped start it, and so it is your duty now to help maintain it, even you are not present there. If it is closed down, it will be great shameful to you. So, at the present moment your former husband, Subal, is struggling alone there, and there is urgent need of financial aid to him. Therefore, I request you to do this ser- vice; you and your husband should earn money nicely, and send to Santa Fe at least $100.00 a month. That will be good for you both, and good for me, and good for Subal, and the best service for Krishna. JUNE, 1968 419 Krishna wants that you should do Him this service, to help maintain His Temple there, so I request that you shall do this immediately. And Krishna will be pleased upon you, and will give you all aid in serv- ing Him in this way. That is my desire. And, if after first giving service in this way, then, if you have got extra time and money, you can execute the coloring book idea, and I shall help you in the future on it. But the first duty is to help maintain the Lord’s Temple as I have instructed. Hop- ing you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 13th June, 1968 68-6-16 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter dated June 8, 1968, as well as for the booklet you have sent de- scribing my activities in Boston. Your en- deavor to utilize energy 24 hours for Krishna Consciousness is a great qualifi- cation. I am very glad to know that you are risking $350.00 a month for taking a nicer accomodation for our temple. I quite ap- preciate this attempt. And Krishna will surely help you. I have sent one letter to Miss Rose, and try to keep friendship with her. She will gradually become more and more interested in our temple affairs. Ev- eryone has dormant love for Krishna and we have to give one possible chance to awake it. Miss Rose was taking gradual in- creased interest in our temple and I think if you flatter her a little more, she will come to Krishna Consciousness platform, and may be a great help to the center. Iam so pleased to learn that the new temple lo- cation will be very near business district. In business circle there is a popular En- glish saying that you can earn by sitting in one place than by travelling in many places provided you can sit down in a place with due consideration. Similarly, if actually you have selected a nice place, that place itself will act as advertisement for popularizing our Krishna Conscious- ness. For the time being Devananda must stay with you; he should not come here for the present. When we shall form a Samkirtan party for European tour, I shall call him. Please show him this part of my letter and I hope he will understand. He is very good nice sober boy, and he will be a good help to your activities. In meantime I have received one letter from James. I am enclosing his letter. I do not know what does he want to know from me. This boy is a new boy, and he might have so many ideas within his brain and if you can train him for your purpose he will be a great service. We may always expect that we get always untamed boys and girls, and we have to train them up. That depends on our capacity. So if you can tackle this boy, he may be also good assistant. Our whole program is to train the untrained. Nobody is in Krishna Consciousness and we are trying our best to bring people in that plat- form. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-17 Montreal 14th June, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I was just expecting your letter since I have come here from Boston. I have already in- formed you about my successful program in Boston, attending many colleges and universities, and the church meetings, practically throughout the whole month. And Sriman Satsvarupa is to be congratu- lated for his endeavor to keep me engaged 420 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda in such meetings. I thought that you were going to San Francisco as you informed me previously that during Rathayatra fes- tival you would be there. The Rathayatra festival is going to be held between 27th June to 7th July, and they are making broader arrangement than last year, and expecting people numbering from 1000 to 5000 will attend the procession, chanting Hare Krishna. They have been advised to turn San Francisco gradually into New Jaggannatha Puri, and I have advised Kir- tanananda and yourself to convert West Virginia into New Vrindaban. I under- stand the spot is very beautiful, and the hills may be renamed as New Govardhan. And if there are lakes, they can be re- named as Shyamakunda and Radhakunda. Vrindaban does not require to be modern- ized because Krishna’s Vrindaban is tran- scendental village. They completely depend on nature’s beauty and nature’s protection. The community in which Krishna preferred to belong was Vaishya community, because Nanda Maharaj hap- pened to be a Vaishya king, or landholder, and his main business was cow protection. It is understood that he had 900,000 cows and Krishna and Balaram used to take charge of them, along with His many cowherdboy friends, and everyday, in the morning He used to go out with His friends and cows into the pasturing grounds. So, if you seriously want to con- vert this new spot as New Vrindaban, I shall advise you not to make it very much modernized. But as you are American boys, you must make it just suitable to your minimum needs. Not to make it too much luxurious as generally Europeans and Americans are accustomed. Better to live there without modern amenities. But to live a natural healthy life for executing Krishna Consciousness. It may be an ideal village where the residents will have plain living and high thinking. For plain living we must have sufficient land for raising crops and pasturing grounds for the cows. If there is sufficient grains and production of milk, then the whole eco- nomic problem is solved. You do not re- quire any machines, cinema, hotels, slaughter houses, brothels, nightclubs— all these modern amenities. People in the spell of maya are trying to squeeze out gross pleasure from the senses, which is not possible to derive to our heart’s con- tent. Therefore we are confused and baf- fled in our attempt to eschew eternal pleasure from gross matter. Actually, joy- ful life is on the spiritual platform, there- fore we should try to save our valuable time from material activities and engage them for Krishna Consciousness. But at the same time, because we have to keep our body and soul together to execute our mission, we must have sufficient (not ex- travagant) food to eat, and that will be sup- plied by grains, fruits, and milk. So if you can develop this place to that ideal life and the residents become ideal Krishna Con- scious men, in that part of your country, I think not only many philosophically minded people will be attracted, but they will be benefited also. So far Iam personally concerned, the United States Immigration Department has denied my application for permanent visa on some technical ground. In other words, just to avoid a Swami, because the government is disgusted with so-called Swamis who exploit the innocent public in your country. The difficulty is that the people in this country, they want to con- tinue their practice of sense gratification, and at the same time they want to become transcendentally advanced. This is quite contradictory. One can advance in tran- scendental life by process of negativating the general practice of materialistic life. The exact adjustment is in Vaishnava phi- losophy, which is called Yukta Varagya, means that we should simply accept the bare necessities of our material part of JUNE, 1968 421 life, and try to save time for spiritual ad- vancement. This should be the motto of New Vrindaban, if you at all develop it to the perfectional stage. And I am always at your service to help you by practical sug- gestion and assistance also. On the other hand I was thinking that if I get permanent visa in Montreal, I shall make Montreal my headquarters and at that time I may require your help in so many ways. As we passed correspon- dence previously, that we should live to- gether either in India or in this part of the world for publication of so many Vaishnava literatures. But if you want to develop New Vrindaban, I can spare you for that purpose, and it may be that we can live there together. For the time being, if you actually want to develop such ideal ashram, we must have sufficient land, and all other things will gradually grow. For raising crops from the land, how many men will be required—that we must estimate and for herding the cows and feeding them. We must have sufficient pasturing ground to feed the animals all round. We have to maintain the animals throughout their life. We must not make any program for selling them to the slaughterhouses. That is the way of cow protection. Krishna by His practical ex- ample taught us to give all protection to the cows and that should be the main busi- ness of New Vrindaban. Vrindaban is also known as Gokula. Go means cows, and kula means congregation. Therefore the special feature of New Vrindaban will be cow protection, and by doing so, we shall not be loser. In India of course, a cow is protected and the cowherdsmen they derive sufficient profit by such pro- tection. Cow dung is used as fuel. Cow dung dried in the sunshine kept in stock for utilizing them as fuel in the villages. They get wheat and other cereals pro- duced from the field. There is milk and vegetables and the fuel is cowdung, and thus, they are self-independent in every village. There are hand weavers for the cloth. And the country oil-mill (consist- ing of a bull walking in circle round two big grinding stones, attached with yoke) grinds the oil seeds into oil. The whole idea is that people residing in New Vrin- daban may not have to search out work outside. Arrangements should be such that the residents should be self-satisfied. That will make an ideal ashram. I do not know these ideals can be given practical shape, but I think like that; that people may be happy in any place with land and cow without endeavoring for so-called amenities of modern life—which simply increase anxieties for maintenance and proper equipment. The less we are anx- ious for maintaining our body and soul to- gether, the more we become favorable for advancing in Krishna Consciousness. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 14th June, 1968 68-6-18 My Dear Himavati, Please accept my blessings. And offer the same to your good husband. I was so glad to receive the two caps which are very nicely made fitting to my skull, and I am enjoying it everyday in the morning, and when I walk on the street they all look at me due to your cap. Not only your cap but also I am enjoying the shirt made by you. And Lord Jaggannatha is also enjoy- ing similarly with cap and ghagara. So Krishna has given you a very good talent and you are sewing expert. Regarding Kirtan party, I find that the Montreal temple is very suitable for train- ing. So I am trying in Canada for visa, and if it is successful then I shall call you both, 422 Letters from Srila Prabhupada husband and wife, for beginning a train- ing class of Kirtan. In the meantime ask your husband to accumulate some money on this account because my next program is to proceed to London with a Kirtan party. It is my duty to help you always in the matter of understanding Krishna Con- sciousness and whatever I am trying to be- stow upon you all is the gift of Lord Krishna directly—I am just doing the work of a bearer. There is nothing of my personal contribution and I ask all your mercy so that I may be able to distribute Krishna’s message as it is without any de- viation. That will make Krishna, myself, and all others eternally happy. It is so nice, sublime and easy to perform. Teaching the girls to sew nicely is also avery good idea. Take some Indian sam- ples from Purushottam and try to make exactly like that so that we may make very good profit for the society. Our society re- quires millions of dollars for propaganda work, but Krishna has made us financially poor. I think it is good to remain finan- cially poor because always we shall be able to pray Krishna, asking His help to execute His service. If all of a sudden we become very strong financially, Maya may dictate us for sense enjoyment, and we may fall a prey to her tactics. There- fore to remain poor is one of the qualifica- tions for advancing in Krishna Con- sciousness. Our predecessors, the Go- swamis, they voluntarily gave up every- thing for advancement in Krishna Consciousness. We do not require any money for our personal account, we shall always be happy with anything Krishna is happy to supply us for maintenance, but for the preaching purposes, we can ac- commodate to receive all the riches of the world. So let us try with sincerity, and Krishna will help us in the matter of our advancing the cause of Krishna Con- sciousness. Yes, you can teach the Brahmacharinis sewing very nicely, and it will be a great help to the society. Of course, if they can remain Brahmacharinis, it is nice. But it is difficult also. It is not good for the Brahmacharinis to associate with house- holders; similarly it is not good also for the Brahmacharinis to mix with Brahma- charies, but in your country the boys and girls are accustomed to mix freely. There- fore, we cannot put any deadline restric- tion. In my opinion, if the boys and girls get themselves married just like ideal Vaishnav householders, that is very good. But, if by the Grace of Krishna, both the girls and boys can live separately, that is still better, but it is not possible. If it is possible to divert the whole attention for Krishna’s service it is quite poossible to remain single even for the whole life. So you have got now good engagement so re- main engaged in that work and train the Brahmacharinis also, chant Hare Krishna and pull on your sewing machine. There is no need of separation. Live together and train up your mind, that is all. Artificial separation is never recom- mended. And when you see, living to- gether, you have no desire for sense gratification, then that is the highest stage of perfection. Voluntary restraint is tapa- sya, austerity, and this is possible with ad- vancement of Krishna Consciousness. Artificial separation is foolishness. We recommend voluntary restraint, not artifi- cial separation. So you should understand that there is no objection to live together as husband and wife. The tendency is there, it is natural. But if one can check it, that is very good. But it is not compulsory. And not to be checked artificially, but with advancement of strength in Krishna Consciousness. Yes, to call one another prabhu is all right, but not to become prabhu. To ac- cept others as prabhu, and remain as ser- vant is the idea. But because somebody is calling you prabhu, one should not JUNE, 1968 423 become a prabhu, and treat others as ser- vants. In other words, everyone should feel himself as servant, and not to think himself prabhu because he is being called prabhu. This will make the relationship congenial. Hoping you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-19 Montreal 14th June, 1968 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to receive the copy of the letter from United Nations information department and it is very hopeful for our future activi- ties. Ihave handed over the letter to Janar- dan for making some copies. In the transcendental world there is no influence of maya or time. So there is full freedom of activities but because there is no maya, therefore everyone is engaged in his natural activities or spontaneously serving Krishna in different relationships. Just like hand is related with the whole body for some particular purpose, the leg is related with the whole body for some particular purpose, the ear is related with the whole body for some particular pur- pose, and so on. Similarly all living enti- ties being eternally part and parcel of the Supreme Lord they are engaged in His service for some particular purpose. So there are varieties of engagements but they are all united with the central Figure, Lord Krishna. So this is in answer to your question; “On Krishna loka are all of Krishna’s pastimes with the living entities controlled by Krishna, or do the living en- tities have choice in this matter? In other words, is one’s rasa governed by strict laws determined by Krishna or is there free choice aside from the free choice of choosing Krishna or maya?” Your second question, ““Why did Ar- juna ask Krishna to go to His four armed form rather than His two armed form after Krishna had showed A ‘una His Vis- varupa?’’ Because he understood that Krishna is the original Narayana. After seeing His Visvarupa, Arjuna was accus- tomed to see Krishna with two hands, but when he saw the Visvarupa, he under- stood Him the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and as such, he requested Him to revert to the original Form of Narayana. Then, Krishna after showing him the Narayana form, again to revert to His original Krishna form. Krishna explained that Narayana form is not original, but Krishna form in two hands is the original and even the demigods desire to see this form. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-20 Montreal 16th June, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of June 12, 1968. Yes, Iam getting some good oppor- tunities to meet here several learned scholars. Last night we had a meeting in the house of Mr. Abdul Rabbi, and there were some University professors and a Dr. Abbot, a Dr. MacMillan, and many others, two clergymen, and their wives. One Father Lanlais was without wife. So there was very good discussion and by the Grace of Krishna, I was able to give them some impression of this philosophy, that it is nicer than anything. Professor Abdul is Mohammedan, and is writing a thesis of Sufi religion. And he was also impressed. Unfortunately, I had to eat there, but I ac- cepted a little fruits only, while they were eating all sorts of nonsense, but at least 424 Letters from Srila Prabhupada they did not drink. We are the two persons only, Janardan and myself, we avoided all kinds of nonsense. Brahmacharies and Brahmacharinis can live in the temple provided there is separate arrangement. The restriction is there because if they live together there might be sex impulses agitated. The whole principle is especially for the Brahmacharies to avoid causes which may give impetus to the sex desire. But in your country it is very difficult to make aloof the boys and girls because they are accus- tomed to mix together. So it is not possible for me to introduce this new system very strictly, because they are trained differ- ently. Someway or other, if you are intelli- gent boy, you should make arrangement for the boys and girls to live separately; Brahmacharies at one place all together, and the Brahmacharinis all together at an- other place. We should always remember that sex life in spiritual advancement is great impediment. So keeping this point of view in front, we should intelligently manage things with great care. So that our aim of life may not be missed. Maharaj Dasarath, although he was a great devotee of the Lord, but because he was a Kshatriya king, keeping one’s prom- ise is inevitable for him. He preferred to banish Ramachandra on the request of his wife on the principle of keeping his prom- ise. In higher states of spiritual life, one can break even promises also, but they are devotees of comparative merit. In the case of Vasudev, we find that he was spiritually more advanced than Maharaj Dasarath. Vasudev was also in agreement with Kamsa that he would deliver all his sons to his hand, as soon as the child is born. But in the case of Krishna-he broke his prom- ise. The point is that Krishna appeared as the full fledged Personality of Godhead. But Ramachandra appeared as an ideal king. Therefore in the Lila of Ramachan- dra, principles of morality and ethics as they are to be followed by ideal king and ruler was followed. In the same sense, He banished Sita in order to prove Himself as an ideal king who wanted to make His subjects always happy. The whole pro- gram was on the basis of an ideal king. But in the case of Lord Krishna, He played as full independent Supreme Personality of Godhead. Apparently, therefore he trans- gressed so many moral and ethical princi- ples. These comparative studies on the life of Krishna and Ramachandra is very intricate, but the basic principle is that Ramachandra appeared as an ideal king and Krishna appeared as the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Although there is no difference between the two. A simi- lar example is Lord Chaitanya. He ap- peared as devotee, and not as the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Although He is Krishna Himself. So we should accept the Lord’s mood in particular appearances and we should worship Him in that mood. Sometimes Lord Chaitanya, because He is Krishna Himself, somebody worships Him in the same manner as Krishna. But Krishna was in the role of enjoyer and Lord Chaitanya is in the role of being en- joyed. So the party known as Gouranga Nagari, they are considered to be deviated from pure devotional service, on account of Lord Chaitanya given the same facility of Krishna, which He did not like. Our service mood should be compatible to the attitude of the Lord. Not that we should overlap the attitude of Krishna to Lord Chaitanya, or Lord Chaitanya to Krishna, or Krishna to Ramachandra, or Rama- chandra to Krishna. Therefore, in the Sas- tras, specific injunctions are there, just like to worship Lord Chaitanya is by the method of chanting Hare Krishna. Yes, it is true that Ramachandra ban- ished Sita later on. Ayodhya is not bound up with any material worlds. Just like Vrindaban is not bound up by any mate- rial limitations, as much as Krishna is not JUNE, 1968 425 bound up by any material limitations. So the kingdom of Ayodhya historically was a tract of land as we see at the present mo- ment, but at that time the king of Ayodhya was the emperor of the world. Yes, that is very nice, your statment that “I am offering special flowers and prayers to Lord Jaggannath every morning because I know He is liberal to crippled and mistake-making devotees of His Lo- tus Feet.” If we are always afraid of our mistakes, Krishna will save us from all such misgivings and even imperceptively we commit some mistake, He will forgive us. But we should be always very careful not to commit mistakes. You are trying your best at that center, and Krishna will help you certainly. I am very glad to see that you are not disap- pointed. This is a good sign. One should work with courage and patience, and cer- tainly Krishna will be pleased. For the time being you have four or five devotees there, so you try to maintain them there, so that you can carry on your program. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N. B. Inthe near future if I get even Cana- dian Permanent Visa, I shall go at least once quarterly to your place & try to en- lighten people there in Krishna Con- sciousness. Please offer my blessings to Jadurani, & ACB 68-6-21 Montreal 16th June, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of June Sth, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Yes, Ihave noted your questions about the serving of prasadam. The main thing is that whenever prasadam is offered to the Lord, everything should be very respect- fully and cleansly presented and pre- pared. In Jaggannatha Puri, the Lord eats 56 times. So the Lord can eat as many times as you can offer. But only thing is whatever is offered must be with respect and devotion. (He is neither hungry nor poor, nor unable to eat, but He accepts ev- erything, when such eatable is within the groups of vegetables, fruits, flours, milk, water, etc. is offered to Him with love and devotion, and faith. He wants our love only, and that makes Him hungry for eat- ing as many times as you may offer. He is absolute, therefore, all contradictory points coincide in Him. He is hungry and satisfied simultaneously. So the purport is that everything should be offered very cleansly and pure things should be given.) If a preparation is cooked all together, then offer all together. But if it is prepared separately, then the milk, the sugar and the cereal should be offered separately. But if the milk, sugar and grains are all cooked together, that can be done. (Ev- erything should be prepared very care- fully and cleansly within the groups of foods listed. And nothing should ever be eaten before offering to the Lord. Best thing is to prepare separately each prepa- ration. No, food which has been offered should never be put back into the refrigera- tor with the unoffered foods, or brought back into the kitchen. You should prepare as much as can be consumed, and after of- fering, nothing should be put back in the refrigerator, or kitchen. Refrigerator should always be very cleansed and pure. Everyone should be careful to make only as much as they can eat; they cannot keep any leftovers in refrigerator. I know this is a practice in your country, but in the tem- ples or at homes of any Krishna Con- sciousness persons, a person should not indulge in such unclean habits. If there is any food extra, that should be kept sepa- rately; and if there is a separate refrigera- tor, not within the kitchen and not having 426 Letters from Srila Prabhupada in it any unoffered foods, then you may have such special refrigerator for leftover prasadam. But it cannot be kept within the same refrigerator as the unoffered, unpre- pared foods. That cannot be. One should never eat within the kitchen, there is am- ple place to eat so why should one eat in the kitchen? Kitchen should be consid- ered as good as the Lord’s room, and no- body should wear shoes in the kitchen, smelling and tasting of foods being pre- pared for the Lord should never be done, talking within the kitchen should be only what is necessary for preparing the prasa- dam, or about the Lord, and dirty dishes (those taken from kitchen and eaten from) should not be brought back into the kitchen (but if there is no other place to wash them, then they should be put into sink and washed immediately.), hands should always be washed when preparing prasadam, and in this way, everything shall be prepared very cleansly and pure.) What is the difficulty of enforcing these rules? They are rules, and they are simple rules, and must be followed. One must be prepared to follow the rules for Krishna. Otherwise where is the proof that he loves Krishna. And they are not very difficult to follow. I am very happy to hear that your cen- ter there is progressing nicely, and please continue doing like that. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-22 Montreal 17th June, 1968 My Dear Sachisuta, Please accept my blessings. I am very much thankful to you for your letter dated June 12, 1968. The science of Krishna Consciousness is transcendental science which is never understood by materialistic persons. Therefore, the Vedas order is that one must approach a spiritual master to understand that transcendental science. And the qualification of a spiritual master is that he has to have received the knowl- edge similarly from a bonafide spiritual master, and the result is that a spiritual master is completely convinced of the ex- istence of the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and he is fixed. That is the quali- fication of the spiritual master. In other words, this science is appreciated by ser- vice attitude only. It is never understood by any challenging spirit. One who is sub- missive and ready to give aural reception of the transcendental message, to him only the transcendence becomes re- vealed. So the more you become in ser- vice attitude for Krishna, Krishna will reveal Himself to you. Krishna is within you and He is awaiting your surrender and service, and as soon as He sees that you are seriously in serving mood, you will understand everything about Krishna— His qualities, His form, His pastimes, His entourage, and His abode. I am very glad to know that you are gradually stepping upwards by your service attitude and I would request you to prolong this attitude eternally, and Krishna will reveal Himself unto you continually. In other words, Krishna is unlimited, but the more we ad- vance in service attitude, we appreciate Him in newer and newer features. There is a verse spoken by Yamuna Acharya. He says, since I have begun to realize the newer and newer features of Krishna, I have forgotten more and more about ma- terial enjoyment. And the summit of ma- terial enjoyment is sex. And Yamuna Acharya says that whenever I think of sex, I spit on it. This is the state of Krishna Consciousness. The more you forget about nonsense material enjoyment, you must know you are advancing in Krishna Consciousness. You haven’t got to ask anybody how you are making progress, JUNE, 1968 427 you will realize yourself by this test. Just like a person taking lunch, he will feel sat- isfied of hunger and strength, himself. Similarly, the more you serve Krishna, you will forget material hankerings and get spiritual strength. This is the test. I am glad to know you are feeling like that, and keeping chanting Hare Krishna and the answer is already received by you. Thank you very much. Regarding your question, how Krishna can become a male: (your question, “‘... I read from Srimad Bhagavatam, chap. 11, text 7, ‘Oh, Creator of the Universe, You are our mother, well wisher, Lord, father, the spiritual master and worshipable diety. I was asked, ‘How can Krishna be mother if He is the Supreme Male?’’’) You have to forget always material con- cepts of existence for Krishna. Krishna is totally different from anything of material concept. In the material idea, we think that how a male can be a female, or how a female can become.a male. This is mate- rial. But you know the picture that Krishna as Garbhodaksayi Vishnu is lying on the sea, and a lotus stem is growing out of His abdomen navel, and Brahma is born there. Vishnu’s wife, Lakshmi, was present there. She was just massaging the Lord’s leg, and the Lord avoided her and produced a child. Here in the material world, without the assistance of the wife, nobody can produce a child. But there is the tangible example, thatVVishnu, with- out any sex life with wife He produced a child. In the material sense, we cannot conceive how a child can take birth with- out being born through the abdomen of one woman. Therefore, Krishna being both father and mother, He can be ad- dressed also as mother. That is His all- powerful strength. He is full in Himself. He does not require anyone’s help, there- fore, He is both father and mother. I think this will clear your idea. It is our material thinking that is hin- dering us. You are thinking male, of the material world, and a male in the material world cannot produce a child. And if you think also that Krishna is mother, again you are thinking with material concep- tion. So we have to avoid using our mate- rial thinking and material concepts when we think about Krishna. Therefore, we have to approach a bonafide spiritual mas- ter in order to understand. Another example is explained in the Bhagavad Gita, that Krishna begets the living entities, within the womb of mate- rial nature. The material nature is also ex- pansion of Krishna’s potency. The potency is not different from the potent. Just like the heat is not different from the fire. In other words, heat and fire is the same thing; so if we talk in that way, the material nature is the mother and Krishna is the father. But material nature being non-separable from Krishna, Krishna be- comes both father and mother at the same time. The heat is fire and the fire is heat. Although you can bear the intensity of heat, but if you put into the fire, you will be burned. The heat and fire are simulta- neously one and different. That is the philosophy of inconceivably one and dif- ferent, expounded by Lord Chaitanya. Try to understand in that way. Your next question, (‘‘In Srimad Bha- gavatam, chap. 9, text 1, ‘Suta Goswami said, thus being afraid of the act of killing the sub jects in the battlefield of Kurukshe- tra, Maharaj Yudhisthir went to that place of massacre where Bhismadeva was lying on a bed of arrows for passing away, for passing away. Bhismadeva was endowed with the power of leaving his material body at his will and his lying down on a bed of arrows was his own choice.’ Did Bhismadeva get wounded by arrows at the battle of Kurukshetra, or did he simply chose to leave his mortal body and thus lay down for passing on a bed of arrows’’) Bhismadeva was surely wounded by the 428 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda arrows of Arjuna. But wounding is not always the cause of death. In our own practical experience we know that many soldiers become wounded in battlefield, sometimes very severely, but still one is not dead—he recovers in the hospital. So Bhismadeva was certainly such severely wounded, but that was not the cause of his death. He preferred to lie down on the bed of arrows and all Pandavas and Krishna arrived there to see his passing away. So his passing away was just on his own will—that was the benediction given by his father. In the battlefield Bhis- madeva also wounded very severely Krishna. He was a great devotee of Krishna. And Lord Krishna accepted those arrows piercing His body as if somebody is worshipping with soft rose flowers. That is Krishna’s transcendental body. But those who are materialists, they are cheated by Krishna that He is wounded. The materialists will think that Krishna was wounded, but one who knows what is Krishna, knows also that He is worshipped by the arrows. So in the battlefield, neither Krishna was wounded, neither Bhismadeva died due to the injuries out of the wounds. He de- cided to pass away at that time, therefore he died. These things will be more and more clear when you understand Krishna by revelation. I think if you make prog- ress in your present attitude, you shall soon know all these intricacies of spiri- tual and material living conditions. I am very glad to learn that you are at Los Angeles temple. Please try to im- prove the condition of the temple con- jointly, and this service will be very much appreciated by Lord Jaggannath. Just now I received one telephone mes- sage from San Francisco that a girl baby is born of Malati and Shyamsundar. And they asked me for registration of the ba- by’s name, and she is named by me as Saraswati devi. Please pray for the newly born baby in Krishna Consciousness. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-23 Montreal 18th June, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated June 11, 1968, and noted the contents. Your sentiments expressed in this letter are transcendentally relished. Certainly you are mine and I am Krishna’s, therefore you are also Krishna’s. In the Krishna Consciousness activities that is the pro- cess. By following the disciplic succes- sion, beginning from Krishna, everything becomes ultimately connected with Krishna. And Krishna being absolute, anything connected with Him becomes absolute, without any duality of concept like in the material world. In the material world, it is called illusion because every- one thinks I or my. But in the spiritual world, everything is Krishna. We being part and parcel of Krishna, when we sur- render fully unto Krishna with sincerity of purpose, through the transparent via me- dia of the spiritual master. One who thinks himself as Krishna’s, he is non-different from Krishna. So the attitude which you are mentioning is the Grace of Krishna, and I wish by His Lordship’s Mercy you will continue this aptitude of becoming more and more progressed in Krishna Consciousness. Thank you very much for thinking in such a nice way. Regarding the press, recently I have received one letter from Rayarama which I am enclosing herewith for your perusal. You can open correspondence with him about the press, and give him the details of the press materials. I think they are asking $5000.00 to make a bargain; if we can JUNE, 1968 purchase a press for $1000.00 as in- formed by Rayarama, why should we spend $5000.00. Anyway, you can open correspondence with Rayarama in this connection, and certainly as we need a press for printing our books and maga- zines, I think Krishna is presenting us with the opportunity to purchase one press of our own. Here also in Montreal the temple space is very great, and part of it we can very easily spare for running on a nice press. And Mr. Kallman is ready to invest money. So far manpower is con- cerned, I think we shall be able to get it. There will be no scarcity of manpower. So considering all these different angles, if we can have our own press, it will serve the greatest purpose of our mission. Please therefore send the details of the press to Rayarama and if possible, send me a copy of the details. But I guess they are demanding not very reasonably. It cannot be so much high priced. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-24 Montreal 19th June, 1968 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of June 15, 1968. I thank you very much for your feelings about me, but you should know that you are always with me. Because you are sin- cere servitor of Krishna and following my direction sincerely, so you are always with me. In future, of course, I shall try to keep you in my association as soon as there is such opportunity; in the meantime, I shall request you to open correspondence with Mr. Marcial Tamayo, or Mr. David J. Ex- ley, chief of the NGO section of U.N., to get some appointment for meeting so that we can furthermore impress them about 429 the importance of this movement, and thereby seeking cooperation from the U.N. for disseminating our great philoso- phy to the responsible personalities of each and every nation. They have not yet come to understand the importance of this movement, but if they kindly hear pa- tiently about the basic principles of the movement, they will feel obliged to get this enlightenment. You began contacting the U.N. and it has come to a little suc- cess, and with this clue, if we try more, then our purpose may be fulfilled in the very near future. So kindly try for this. If they want to see me personally, I shall be very glad also to meet them. The idea is that we want to get some facilities for pre- senting our formulas to the different na- tions of the world. The formula is very simple, but sublime at the same time. I think you shall try for this. How is your store going on, Krishna’s store? You have not written anything about it. You can also remind Brahm- ananda whether he has got the original let- ter received from Mr. Sahai of the Indian Embassy in Washington. If he has got that letter, please ask him to return it to me. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have not heard anything from Brahmananda since he has gone to N.Y. ACB 68-6-25 Montreal 19th June, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Saradia, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated May 30, 1968, and I was just awaiting another let- ter from your intimate friend Ali Krishna. I am so glad to learn that Ali Krishna and 430 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda you are all living with Malati and Shyam- sundar. We have recently got a newcomer baby, Srimati Saraswati devi, and pleased to learn that they are taking all care for you. I am also very glad that your mother is also taking part in Krishna Conscious activities. I have received one letter from Lilavati also, and I have replied her. I am very glad to know also that the injury in your hand is now cured. Yes, I am happy to hear that you are going to visit with Jadurany. She will be very much happy to see you also. We are preparing for starting for Lon- don and very soon we shall go there. And as soon as the newly born child is little strong, Malati and Shyamasundar, along with you, may come to London and start our Samkirtan movement there. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-26 Montreal 20th June, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am sim- ply remembering your face when you were crying in the plane. Please don’t be agitated in any way. Please remain fixed up in Krishna Consciousness and you will always be happy. And now you have got a very nice assistant, Madhavi Lata devi, and she is also very good and sincere girl, so you will have good company to talk, and paint; wherever you may be, Krishna is always with you, as He is always with everyone. But everyone who is in Krishna Consciousness can know Krishna is with him. Others do not know. In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says that I am the Supersoul everywhere. So Krishna is so kind that He is always with us as Friend; if we can learn to treat Him with our friendly love and af- fection the reciprocation is permanent, and that is the highest success of our hu- man form of life. I shall be glad to hear from you at your convenience. And chant always joyfully Hare Krishna. Thank you very much. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Here, Anapurna and Govinda dasi, they are very nice girls, helping me in all respects. Anapurna has gotten a letter from her father in London, and may be we shall be very soon going there, and formu- late a Samkirtan party with the help of some San Francisco students. 68-6-27 Montreal 20th June, 1968 My Dear Madhavi Lata, Please accept my blessings. I am so much pleased to receive your nice letter of June 11, 1968, all full with humility and love and very nice sentiments. Your sim- plicity is a great asset for Krishna Con- sciousness. Krishna is very kind to the meek and simple, so dullness of the mate- rial world and consciousness about Krishna go well together. Too much intel- ligence in material activities are detrac- tion from Krishna Consciousness. Better to remain dull and simple as you are, and thus make advancement in Krishna Con- sciousness. There is a nice story about Bharat Maharaj, who remained just like a dullard, in order to avoid material asso- ciation. And he was known as Jad Bharata, but when he was tested, Maharaj Rohugan found him highly advanced in Krishna Consciousness, and became his disciple. Yes, you stay in Boston. Please learn this painting under care of Jadurany. Please always talk about Krishna amongst you two sisters, and enjoy life. This is very good opportunity that you are talking and painting about Krishna, so that your JUNE, 1968 431 mind, hand, and attention are all absorbed in Krishna samadhi, and tongue chanting Hare Krishna. This is first class samadhi, and the highest position of the greatest yogi. Try to continue this atmosphere happily. Now, Devananda and Satsvarup, and you and Jadurany try to develope the temple very nicely. Satsvarupa and Devananda shall live separately and you and Jadurany shall live separately, in dif- ferent compartments, that will be very nice. And be always engaged in Krishna topics, then Maya will never touch you. If you want you can cut your hairs, but there is no need of cutting. It would be nicer if you can put on sari, you can learn it from Jadurany. You must remain like a nice girl. The dress and appearance is so- cial convention of the society. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-28 Montreal 21st June, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard anything from you since you left from Montreal. I think everything is all right with you, and shall be glad to hear from you how far the DiaNippon Printing work is going on. In the meantime, as I have already informed you, a boy, Ranjit Mullick, is prepared to export goods from India, on the following terms: 1) If letter of credit is open, he is pre- pared to export goods for the present, up to $1000.00. 2) He will charge 20% onthe purchase value of the goods, including all expendi- ture. That is, FO.B., free on board. That means he will be free by boarding. the goods on the ship, and we will have to pay the frieght here, while taking delivery of the goods. This is the technical terms, FO.B. 3) As he is my friend’s son, I have re- quested him to contribute 50% of the profit for delivering to our International Society Indian center, and he has agreed to this proposal. Now you can consult with Mr. Kallman and send him some trial order on the above basis. His address is as follows: Ran jit Mullick 7, Kalikrishna Tagore Street Calcutta-7 INDIA I am sending a copy of this letter for Ranjit Mullick, for information, and you can now open correspondence with him by asking quotation for the goods you may require presently. And in receipt of the quotation, you can send him the order if you approve the prices. I think you should give him a trial order, and if the transac- tion is successful, then you can increase the volume of the business. Just now I am in due receipt of your let- ter dated June 18, 1968, and thank you very much. I am replying separately to Hamsadutta along with this letter. To the UNITED SHIPPING CORPORATION you can reply as follows: “Dear Sir, Re- plying your letter dated June 13, 1968, please be informed that the Institute of Oriental Philosophy, Vrindaban, are sending us the consignment of sales ac- count. That is, the price of the book will be paid after sale. So there is no question of sending it through the bank for collec- tion. We do not know why you have ad- vised them to return back the items. In every transaction we are feeling some dif- ficulties. You should clear up the things beforehand. Otherwise, you and we are put into so many difficulties. Regarding the former consignment of 15 cases, Swamiji has already written you that you 432 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda make prima face invoice and send it and we will return to you. Otherwise, he has sent you several times the invoice and each time there was some defect pointed out by the bank or by you. So, we are fed up in this business. We are quite unaware of the Indian government export business; you should have let us know beforehand. But we do not feel such difficulty with other shippers. We are very much per- plexed in these transactions.” You can write them the letter as dic- tated above and I do not know if you have already asked them to deposit the balance money with Dwarkin. The best thing will be to get your goods exported through a purchasing agent like Ranjit Mullick. We can avoid so many botherations. I am also returning herewith the letter of the UNITED SHIPPING CORPORATION, which was sent by you. Did you write any letter to Dwarkin? Regarding the 1000 records: Please do not dispatch them until you hear from me. I have written several letters to Mr. Dal- mia, Achyutananda, and JaiGovinda, but I have heard nothing from them still. So, unless I hear from them, donot export the records. Please write to Achyutananda and JaiGovinda whether they can distrib- ute the records free to respectable Indian gentlemen, and collect some contribu- tions for purchasing Deities, to be in- stalled in our several temples. For the last 2 weeks I have received no reply from them. I do not know what they are doing there. I thought JaiGovinda would be in- telligent enough to cooperate with Achyutananda, but he is also silent. I do not know what to do with them. The Canadian Immigration affairs is going on. After one week we shall know what the actual position is. You have sent me two days ago copies of your letters to UNITED SHIPPING CORPORATION, and one letter to Mr. Renovick in Vancouver. But I have not re- ceived these copies. I do not know if they are missing delivery. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Please send a supply of ISKCON stationery as soon as possible, and enve- lopes. 68-6-29 Montreal 21st June, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated June 18, 1968, and I am so glad to note the con- tents. I think Krishna is giving you the re- quired intelligence how to spread our transcendental movement. This is the right way, as you have adopted. To chant Hare Krishna, very nicely, with musical instruments and mridanga, speak the phi- losophy of Bhagavad Gita, and sell our lit- eratures like books and magazines. That process will make our mission successful. Please try to do it very nicely. Regarding the bus, the best thing will be to dispose of and get some money. One thing, you must be very careful that we should not divert our attention for money making too much. If we can make money by the process which you have now adopted, that is very nice. But we cannot divert our attention to such things as run- ning on the bus, etc. This is not good. The bus should be sold to get out of the bother- ation. If the bus was in good condition, we could have it to utilized to move ourselves, but that is not possible. Under the circum- stances, better that you dispose of it at highest possible price and get out of the complication. Yes, that is all right, Himavati can sew nice things for selling. And your advice for the boys in San Francisco is very nice. They can also go out everyday into the JUNE, 1968 433 Golden Gate Park and hold kirtan and so many people will come. Yes, Vamanadev can stay as your as- sistant, and can come here when you come. There is no objection. Money making schemes should be easy; we cannot divert our attention for money making activities. We require some money for prosecuting our activi- ties, and if we get that money by contribu- tion that is best, otherwise, we can sell our literature and books, etc. But if we di- rect our attention like others, then it becomes karma. And karma is very dan- gerous for persons who want to go back to Godhead. Therefore, in Bhagavad Gita karma yoga is advised. On the whole, we can endeavor for money making if it doesn’t hamper our devotional service. And otherwise, we shall prefer to starve and chant Hare Krishna. That should be the pivot of all our activities. Hoping you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-30 Montreal 22nd June, 1968 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. Just now I have received one letter from one of my God-brothers, whose name is as follows: His Grace Y. Jagannatham, B.A. 81, Navrang, (8th Floor) Peddar Road, Bombay-26 INDIA He has heard about my activities and he is interested in all our literature. I shall be very glad if you send him all our Back To Godheads publications, as well as newspaper clippings at your earliest con- venience. He is very influential man and has rendered sincere service to my Guru Maharaj by translating many Goswami literatures in Telugu language, as well as in English. With his cooperation there is possibility of opening a branch in Bom- bay. I hope you will do the needful imme- diately. Hop you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure 1 c.c. letter to Jaganatham 68-6-31 Montreal 22nd June, 1968 Dear Jagannatham Prabhu, Please accept my respectful obeis- ances at your lotus feet. I am so glad to re- ceive your letter after a long time. I think I met you sometimes in the year of 1950, in Madras Gaudiya Math, when I went with Tirtha Maharaj to attend the Janmastami Festival. I know you are a sincere servant of Srila Prabhupad and you have done ex- cellent service while He was present be- fore us, and you have done similarly even after His Disappearance. I am very glad to learn that your children are well situa- ted, but you are very much anxious to get them in touch with Krishna Conscious- ness. You know very well that jadavidya is the opulence of maya. So naturally, your children being well educated in jadavidya, are reluctant to receive enlightenment in Krishna Consciousness. But there is noth- ing to be disappointed, because they are your children; they have got the initiative seeds in them, and someday it will fruc- tify. Don’t worry about them; Krishna will put them in right line in due course. As ordered by you, I have immediately asked my assistant, Sriman Rayarama das Brahmachary, in charge of Back To God- head magazine, to send you all necessary literatures immediately. Besides that, I have some disciples working in Delhi. Their address is: Sriman Achyutananda das Brahmachary; c/o Radha Press; 993/3 Main Road; Gandhi Nagar; Delhi-31, 434 Letters from Srila Prabhupada INDIA. And you can write to him, and with my name, for sending you some cop- ies of Back To Godhead. I have published Srimad Bhagavatam, \st canto, in 3 vol- umes, and they are available in Bombay at Thackars Booksellers, Rampart Road, Bombay. Or, at Three Party Company Booksellers, Princess Street, Bombay. I think if your children take care to read these literatures, and books, they will be convinced of this Krishna Consciousness movement. Regarding our Gaudiya Math in Bom- bay: I am very sorry that you are disap- pointed in respect of their activities. I know this fact because in 1934 I was one of the active members in starting this Math. The Gowalia Tank center was opened by me, and although I lived sepa- rately from the Math, practically I was in charge of the Math and under the instruc- tions from His Divine Grace. Then after His Departure, you know so many un- happy things happened, but, as I was a householder, I remained always aloof from those unhappy incidences. I have ac- cepted this renounced order of life in 1958, and since then I am completely de- voted to the service of His Divine Grace Srila Prabhupad. You’ll be very glad to know that by the Grace of Srila Prabhu- pad, the duty which was entrusted upon me is being discharged as faithfully as possible, and by the Mercy of His Divine Grace, I have got here many American boys and girls, who are sincerely assisting me. I have got 8 branches in U.S.A. and one in Canada, and probably my next move will be in European countries, be- ginning from London. As you are Prabhu- pad’s old disciple and you have served His Divine Grace so nicely, I would request you that you can make some attempt to open a branch of this International Society for Krishna Consciousness in Bombay. And if you agree to this, then I can send some of my American disciples to join you. Your children and these American boys under your guidance may do very good service to the cause of Srila Prabhu- pad in spreading this Samkirtan move- ment. I have trained my disciples to perform Samkirtan nicely and deliver lec- tures on Krishna Consciousness, and if your children practically see their activi- ties, certianly they will be influenced. Be- sides that, they can talk on Krishna Consciousness very nicely. I shall be very glad to know from you if there is any pos- sibility for such activity. Bombay is very advanced city in India in all respects. They have got money, and they have got heart also to participate in such move- ment. Unfortunately the present workers in the Bombay Gaudiya Math are not at all competent to do any tangible work. They are staying there for the last 35 years, but they have not done any appreciable work. it is simply a place ‘‘khabadavar ad- dakhama.” Srila Prabhupad used this word many times in connection with inac- tive centers. And when one was too much engaged in buildings, He always warned that our business is not for becoming ma- son workers, or becoming carpenters, neither to create a place for eating and sleeping. So these people are collecting funds and eating and sleeping. The reason is that they deviated from the disciplic succession from Srila Prabhupad. So, I don’t wish to discuss on this point, be- cause you know better than me; but I think you are also old enough, and I am also old enough. At any time we may pass away from this world, but I wish that we may try to do some service to Srila Prabhupad untill the last moment of our life. I was thinking of opening a branch in Bombay of this International Society for Krishna Consciousness, and if you coop- erate, we can attempt this important ac- tivity. Your letter was addressed to my headquarters at 26 Second Avenue, New York, N.Y., and it has been sent to me at JUNE, 1968 435 Montreal. I shall be glad to hear from you about these suggestions in your next letter. Thanking you once more for remember- ing me. Hoping you are well, Yours in the service of the Lord, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-32 23rd June, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated June 17, 1968, and noted the contents with great pleasure. Rest assured that your hard labor and sincere exertion to serve Krishna will never go in vain. I hope that by this time you might have received a check for $100 from Hare Nama Brahma- chary. And Ihave advised him to send you at least $50.00 per month for the next 3 months to help you. In the meantime, you try to become self sufficient. I have also advised Sriman Woomapati Brahmachary to join you. He is now in San Francisco as in S.F. they will require his help during the Rathayatra Festival. I am advising him to join you just after the festival. I hope both of you will be good combination, be- cause Woompati writes ‘‘Subal is my good friend and it will give me great joy to work with him in your divine service.” So you try your best with greater en- thusiasm and krishna will send you more and more help. Thanking you once more for your good endeavor, and I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB P.S. I have also asked Krishna Devi to send you some holp. Set me see how does she respond. ACB 68-6-33 Montreal 24th June, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. Just now I understand from Mahapurusha das that you phoned here to inquire whether the temple can be closed for your going to San Francisco on the Rathayatra Festival. Since the temple is started, the temple cannot be closed on any day. This is the serious business of opening a center. In no case, even in the most urgent case, the temple cannot be closed even for a single day. The Deities should be offered prasa- dam regularly, and worshipped regularly, so if you are going to San Francisco, somebody must remain to look after the temple affairs. I am also in due receipt of your letter, dated June 19, 1968. And I am so glad to learn that Sachisuta is doing very nicely. You will be also glad to know that our stu- dents who have gone to India, they are also trying and nicely. Yesterday I re- ceived one letter from Harivilas, and I was so pleased to note his activities. Simi- larly, Subal is also struggling alone but he is doing nicely. Krishna Consciousness is such a thing that it is so nice that it cannot keep anyone idle. Because a conscious person means a living force, and Krishna Consciousness is the topmost conscious- ness. Therefore anyone who is actually in- jected with Krishna Consciousness is always anxious to serve in whatever ca- pacity he can. So you can please give Sri- man Sachisuta all good encouragement, as I am very much pleased with his good service attitude. Similarly, I am very much pleased to read about Gargamuni’s successful store in S.F. Yes, he is using his good selling ability to serve Krishna, and Krishna is pleased with him so He is giv- ing him all aid to become successful. 436 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda I am glad to hear Dyananda and Nan- darani will soon return to L.A., and please let me know when they come, and ask them to write me. I am also very much anxious to hear from them. They are good souls and sincere servants to His Lord- ship, Sri Krishna. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-34 Montreal 27th June, 1968 Allston, Mass. My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 23, 1968, and I have noted the contents. I am very much pleased to hear of your good success in the park on Sunday. This is very much encouraging to me, to hear so many people are hearing the chanting, and phi- losophy, and also taking nice prasadam as well. Yes, it is very good, and you please continue with this sort of program! This system should be followed and you will be successful. Because in New York also Hansadutta is following this system, hold- ing Kirtan at Central Park every day, and he is collecting in the same way. All to- gether he is collecting 50 to 70 dollars by contribution and by selling Back To God- head. This is actually our successful propaganda. We wantto distribute our lit- erature and books within as well as our prasadam, and injecting our Hare Krishna medicine within the ear. So, reading of the literature and hearing of the chanting is the medicine, and prasadam is the diet. So, if diet and medicine are properly ad- ministered the disease of maya will be cured. But the physician must be always healthy. People may not say, physician is ill thyself. That means the preachers must be of highly elevated character, following strictly the rules and regulations and chanting regularly in the temple. There may be so many odds inthe progressive march of Krishna Consciousness, but if we pin our faith in Krishna, everything will come out successful in due course. Yes, Krishna didn’t like that place, for $350, so you could not acquire it. Please convey my blessings to Ja- durany, Madhavi Lata, and Devananda. You are all good souls; please work to- gether combinedly for spreading Krishna Consciousness there in that city. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-6-35 Montreal 28th June, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of 6/25/68, of Mr. Kallman catastrophe. When I first came from San Francisco to New York, and when you informed me about the pro- spective business with Mr. Kallman, I was so much doubtful about the success of the plan. And therefore I hesitated. Anyway, whatever is done is done, now try to sepa- rate from this botheration without break- ing our good friendship with Mr. Kallman. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu espe- cially warned His devotees to deal with worldly minded men. Therefore accord- ing to Vedic principles, only the Brahma- charies, the Vanaprasthas, and the Sanya- sins are recommended to take to Krishna Consciousness seriously or to get free from the problem of earning money. The Grihastras are supposed to support the 3 sections of the society. Anyway, the best source of our income should be by ac- cepting contributions from the sympa- thetic public, and selling our own books JUNE, 1968 437 and literature. That is also a sort of busi- ness, but it doesn’t matter. And if we do business we must do it independently, without any assistance from outsiders. We can take help from outside in the matter of monetary help, either by contribution or by loan, but not to enter into transactions with outsiders. Because their aim of life is different from ours. Please therefore do not be agitated at the present situation. Tackle everything cool-headed and if Purushottam is not feeling well, then you can send him for a few days here, to live with me. And while coming here he may bring with him my yellow colored hand-bound Bhagavatam book. Now from the dealings of Mr. Kallman, we can clearly know that he is after business for his own profit. And I am sure he is not going to help us with any money as you expected from him in the matter of publishing Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. Therefore, in the acknowl- edgement, his name should not be given as it was suggested by you. I shall be glad to know what is further development in this connection. But try to settle up every- thing peacefully, and in future, if possi- ble, you can do business independently. I understand that you have not written any letter to Dwarkin, but they are await- ing a letter from us regarding the dispatch of goods. I think you noted down what is to be written to them. They must be informed to dispatch the goods immedi- ately.* As Gargamuni is doing business independently, similarly, you can do so without taking any so-called cooperation of Mr. Kallman. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *Mr. Kalman wanted Gargamuni also in this business but I stopped him to come here. Let him do it independently and Krishna has saved him from Mr. Kalmans’ plan. In Santa Fe they want incense. So if the incense consignment from India (as I don’t know from where) accepted by force then you can distribute them for sale in different branches. I am doubtful now about the records now. Better you take open delivery and dispatch yourself or do things very cautiously. Kirtananda is in W. Virginia and he in- vites 100 Brahmacharies there. I don’t how would you like this idea of when we have got 100 Brahmacharies. ACB 68-6-36 Montreal 30th June, 1968 Moundsville My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated June 22, 1968, and I have noted the contents. The suggestion of constructing New Vrin- daban as I’ ve suggested in Hayagriva’s let- ter is the only method by which we can become successful in constructing the New Vrindaban scheme. But if you have got impediments in the matter, as you say that the proprietor of the land is of differ- ent views, then I do not know how you’ll be able to construct it freely according to our idea. Mr. Rose may be very good man, but he does not know what is sec- tarian and what is non-sectarian. But at least you should know that Krishna is non- sectarian. Krishna claims that He is the seed-giving Father of all the 8,400,000 species of life visible within the material creation. They may be of different forms—some of them are aquatics, some of them are vegetables, plants, some of them are worms, some of them are birds, some of them are beasts, some of them are human beings. Krishna claims that all of them are His begotten sons. Neither 438 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Krishna claims Himself that He is an In- dian or a Kshatriya, or a Brahmin, or white or black; He claims that He is the Enjoyer of everything that be, He is the Proprietor of all the planets and the crea- tion, and He is the intimate friend of all living entities. He never claims that one should offer Him very valuable things to satisfy Him; or very delicious foodstuffs should be offered to Him—but He says that even a little bit of leaf, a little bit of fruit, and water, you offer to Him with de- votion and love, and He accepts and eats such things. So it is a fact that Krishna is universal. Krishna is non-sectarian, and therefore if Mr. Rose actually wants to have some institution, he must know how that non-sectarian institution is possible. So factually, Krishna Consciousness is non-sectarian movement. There is no sec- tarian question. But if somebody without understanding this non-sectarian philoso- phy thinks otherwise, he himself becomes immediately sectarian. I therefore think that you should try to convince Mr. Rose about our philosophy of Krishna Con- sciousness, and let him become actually non-sectarian. Without understanding Krishna everyone is sectarian, and combi- nation of such non-Krishna Conscious- ness persons will never create any institution of non-sectarian nature. That is not possible. If Mr. Rose is serious to give facility for a non-sectarian institution in that part of the country, he should under- stand Krishna and this philosophy thor- oughly. Our Krishna Consciousness movement is no religious movement as it is generally understood. Our propaganda is to make people feel for Krishna or God, and become engaged in His transcenden- tal loving service. Anyone who has a con- cept of God will agree to this philosophy. There are many sectarian religions where acceptance of God is there, but there is no love for God. So we are teaching love for God. That means Krishna Consciousness is the post-graduate class for all religious sects. We do not protest the Christians, or Mohammedans, or Jews, or any other re- ligious sect, that there is no idea of God conception in their religions. More or less in every religion the God conception is there. But, nobody tries to love God. Just like in Christian religion, they go to church everyday and tries to exact bread from God, but they never try how to please God. And because this love of God, and the process is not thoroughly in- structed, therefore they have come to the stage of understanding that God is dead. At the present moment in many Christian churches, this philosophy is being taught, that God is dead. But so far we are con- cerned, we cannot accept this philosophy, that God is dead. But we preach on the other hand, that God is not only not dead, but He can be approached finally face to face. And the method is very simple, chanting the Holy Name of God—Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare. Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare. This process is standard, and tested. So far it’s test is con- cerned, you know very well about it be- cause in this part of the world, all my disciples are non-Hindu, and non- Indians. But still they have taken to this mantra, Mahamantra, very seriously and they are deriving good result out of it. So there is no question about its genuine pre- sentation. We should therefore push on this movement in the same simple manner as we are doing. That everyone should come and sit together and chant this Holy Name Hare Krishna. If this system is taken as sectarian, then I am sure your at- tempt for organizing New Vrindaban un- der the care of Mr. Rose will not be successful. The best thing will be to chant Hare Krishna, call all the neighbors, in that part of the state, and gradually deve- lope their taste for it. Then try to endeavor to do something for developing New JUNE, 1968 439 Vrindaban. For the present, live as simply as possible, without any endeavor to de- velope that part into New Vrindaban, or do it peacefully as you have mentioned, but you must continue to chant Hare Krishna, at least you and Hayagriva, and ask every- body to join you. At least Mr. Rose cannot object to this performance of Kirtan be- cause he wants to give facility to all sects. So even if he takes it that our Krishna Consciousness movement is also a par- ticular type of sect, certainly he will not have any objection. Therefore, the con- clusion is that you must regularly hold Krishna Kirtan, now, and even as in our other centers they are doing. And live peacefully without any exaggeration, and try to convince people about the non- sectarian nature of Krishna Conscious- ness. I think that will make you successful in this great adventure. Before the advent of Lord Chaitanya, nobody had exhibited the practical way of developing love of Godhead, and the process is open to ev- eryone, therefore this is simple, non- sectarian, and sublime. But, if the people are backwards and suspicious, then how your scheme will be successful, in that part of the country? This movement is meant for intelligent class of men, those who have reason and logic to understand things in a civilized way, and who are open-hearted to receive things as they are. But apart from such consideration, I think there is not any cause of suspicion if somebody sings and dances. So without remuneration if some- body sings and dances at his place, what is the cause of suspicion? But if the place is infested with such suspicious men and backward class, then how you can devel- Ope a New Vrindaban there? The circum- Stances as you have described them is not very favorable. Therefore I think the at- tempt will not be very successful. Krishna Consciousness movement can be pushed forward in a favorable atmosphere. If the atmosphere is not favorable, then don’t at- tempt, it will be failure. Precaution you may take, but as you grow larger, if they are suspicious then they may cause trou- ble. Because you can dress yourself and live peacefully at your home, but if your neighbors are always suspicious, then there may be always danger. Therefore, why should we make our residence in such a place. And I think no Brahmachary will agree to go there and live in such un- comfortable situation, with suspicious neighbors. Simply for land, we don’t care. We simply want favorable place for worshipping Krishna. That is our idea. Anyway, please keep me informed how the circumstances are, and I shall be very glad to hear from you at your conven- ience, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Hayagriva has not yet replied my let- ter. Please ask him to write. He has many things to do in the library cases and I want his assistance greatly in this matter. I am planning to go to London in August. Sri- mati Annapurna’s father. Mr. Louis Weble is trying to get a good house for us. I wish to go there with a party of not less than 6 and not more than 12 heads. I wish to establish a center there which is my long cherished ambition. ACB 68-6-37 My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated June 30, 1968, just when I was thinking of you, that I have not heard from you since you met me at Boston—immediately I got your let- ter and it was so nice coincidence! At the same time, 3 beloved devotees, namely Brahmananda, Rayarama, and Garga- muni also arrived at the same moment. So 440 Letters from Srila Prabhupada just now in Montreal it is very pleasing at- mosphere. Last night we had meetings and SamKirtan very nicely, and Brahm- ananda, Rayarama and Janardan, they spoke each 15 to 20 minutes and they spoke very nicely. And as you are also making progress in Buffalo, which I can understand from the description of your letter, so I am getting more and more en- thused that my spiritual children are growing to Krishna Consciousness, and I can hope each one of you in future will be able to propagate this transcendental mes- sage. I was so glad to learn that you are coming here with your child, Mr. Eric, and I shall be very glad to receive him here. I hope he is chanting Hare Krishna as he is already accustomed to it. This is the duty of father and mother to enlighten children in Krishna Consciousness and thus save them from the clutches of im- pending death. The Srimad Bhagavatam instructs that no body should be come father or mother if they cannot take this responsibility, namely, stopping the re- peated birth and death cycle of their chil- dren. Yes, the new house sounds very nice, and you can decorate it as you have sug- gested. It is very nice. Yes, try to let James hear patiently this Hare Krishna Mahamantre, and he will be tamed without delay. If somebody simply hears very patiently, he will be altogether converted. In India, if a man is bitten by a serpent, it used to be, and still is in some places, that an expert man would chant a mantra, and apply some herbs, and the serpent-bitten man would be saved from death. Similarly, we are bitten by the maya-serpent, and the mantra to save us is Hare Krishna. It in Lord Chaitanya’s man- tra. Yes, Buffalo will certainly gradually grow to a nice center, because there is a sincere devotee like you. When Vedure met Maharaj Uddhisthi received him by saying that, your good self can make any place a sacred place of pilgrimage be- cause you always carry within your heart Lord Krishna. So that is the real truth. Anyone who carries Krishna within him- self, constantly, can go anywhere and turn the place into a sacred pilgrimage. That is the verdict of Srimad Bhagavatam and blessings of Lord Chaitanya. Lord Chaitanya gave a plain order that any- where we go, simply talk of Krishna Con- sciousness, and you wil become a spiritual master. So, if we simply do this work very sincerely, our life, and the life of those who will hear us, will be bene- dicted. It is very good news that you have got good prospects of the future of that center in Buffalo. And you will be glad to know that in New York and Boston, by following this process of chanting in public places like parks and streets, they are getting very good response by contributions from the public, as well as by selling our litera- tures. Yes, I quite agree with you, on this money subject. This subject matter I have discussed here also. The difficulty in that in your country the Brahmacharies cannot go and beg from door to door, therefore the process which is now adopted by Han- sadutta is coming to be very hopeful. But boys who are not engaged in the temple service during daytime must try to get some money be working or some other way. Without money it is not possible to exist in the material world. Although Krishna is always on the background, still Krishna advised Arjuna that you have to fight, at the same time, remember Me. Thesame principles we have to follow. We have to work, just like others, and at the same time think of Krishna constantly. Outsiders should be educated to know that we are the most humble service of the hu- man society. The word klin is significance of the JUNE, 1968 441 mantras being the root of devotional activiteis. Krishnaya, unto Krishna; Go- vindaya, unto Govinda; GopijanaBalla bhaya, unto the Pleasure Reservoir of the damsels of Braja, and Svaha, offering ob- lations unto Him. You will get in time the translations of all the mantras. Yes, we have got all the qualities of the Supersoul. Therefore, unless the Super- soul and got consciousness, how we can have consciousness? We are the samples, therefore the origin must have all the qualities that we have. There is no such thing as acceptance of rejection by the mind of the Supersoul. Our mind is in the present material existence a nonsense. It’s business is simply to accept or reject. The Supersoul has no separate mind like that, but He has got mind also, and whatever He thinks in His mind, also, that is a fact. There is no question of accepting or re- jecting. In Sanskrit language it is called Satya Sankalpa. And our mind is Vikalpa. The mind, body and the Supersoul is the same Absolute truth, there is no distintion between Them. This is in answer to your question, ‘‘is the conscience’ the symp- tom of the Supersoul?”’ Your question, ‘‘could we use alchemy to make gold for Krishna’s altar?” but—I could not follow what you mean by using alchemy for Krishna’s altar, but if you can make Krishna’s sitting place made of gold, either by alchemy or by purchasing gold, it will be a grand success. But I do not advise you take advantage of alchemy for making gold, it it is not certain. We should not waste our time on that which is not very sure. If you can manufacture gold, then we can very soon spread our Krishna Consciousness, but I think Krishna will not give us that opportunity, because as soon as we get large quantity of gold, we forget Krishna. That nature is in- Cumbent in our character. Yes, those twelve symptoms of the Spiritual soul are correct, except for “‘all- knowing”. All-knowing it cannot be, but full of knowledge. The scientists’ anti-matter is different from the anti-matter conception which I discussed in my book, Easy Journey to Other Planets. I think I have explained this by correspondence with Dr. Welk. Regarding your questions, ‘“‘how the simpler faith of a real Christian, that is not so advanced in knowlege of the Supreme Person, differs in ecstasy or the end result of God-consciousness,” (1) and persons “a devotee who has experienced some ec- stasy in the company of Christians sug- gests that if there be no quantitative or qualitative difference between the two forms of Kirtan, then the simpler philoso- phy of Christianity has the advantage, and that our philosophy is for the intelligent class of men, true, but of what advantage is such intelligence if the end is the same? (2) There is no ecstasy in such simple faith; there cannot be any ecstasy. The Christian faith as it is now exhibited, they have simply a faint idea of God as order- supplier. Certainly God is the Origin, Source of all supplies, and either God- conscious persons or demons, everybody is enjoying the general supplies made by God. It is just like a rich father maintains all kinds of children; some of them may be a highly qualified, some of them are ras- cals. The father does not mind whether a child is rascal or qualified, but out of his love for all of them he supplies the essen- tials for the children. Out of such many children, if someone of them feels grate- ful to the father, and thus developes love for the father, as it is expected, his posi- tion is better than the other children. And the father is also endeared to such a de- voted child. Similarly, God is equal to ev- eryone, but one who developed love of Godhead, and has practically employed oneself in the service of the Lord, he is in real touch and favor of the Lord. That is the difference. (2) We want ecstasy, it 442 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda does not matter one feels it in Christian shurch or in other church. But, one who feels ecstasy in Krishna Consciousness or God-consciousness, he finishes his ec- stasy in material enjoyment—that is the test. One cannot say he is feeling enjoyment—that is the test. One cannot say he is feeling ecstasy in some company, and at the same time, he is trying to take advantage of material sense gratification. This is not possible. This ecstasy doesn’t depend on the intelligence or non- intelligence; it is spontaneous response, without any cause. If one is fortunate to have such ecstasy, it is to be understood that his life is successful. We do not advo- cate any sectarian religion. We are con- cerned to invoke our dormant love for God. Any method that helps us in reach- ing such platform is welcome, but we find practically that by chanting Hare Krishna, many students have come to the platform of ecstasy. But we have hardly found any- one to come to that stage simply by follow- ing the religious rituals; that is the difference. So, Krishna Consciousness is meant for the most intelligent class of men. Your question, “‘if in the Vaikunthas ecstatic love between Lord Narayan and His devotees and Lord Krishna Con- sciousness and His devotees on Krishna Loka is qualitatively the same, then what is the advantage of following the path of Krishna Consciousness, whose philoso- phy austerity is difficult to understand?” Krishna Consciousness philosophy in- cludes the whole Vaishnava philosophy. When we speak Krishna, the very Word means, Rama, Nrisingha, Baraha, and all other similar expansions and incarna- tions. So Krishna Consciousness includes Vaikuntha consciousness, but Vaikuntha consciousness does not include Krishna Consciousness. Those who are strictly following the rules and regulations of Vaishnava activities, they are promoted to Vaikuntha lokas. But those who have de- veloped a spontaneous love for Krishna, they are pro,oted to the Krishna Loka. Therefore, although Krishna Conscious- ness includes Vaikuntha consciousness pure Krishna Consciousness is spontane- ous love for Krishna without any regula- tive principles. The idea can be explained that a young boy or a young girl are spon- taneously attracted, without following any regulative principles previously. When one developes such spontaneous love for God, that is called pure Krishna Con- sciousness. In our conditioned life, we have forgotten our relationship with God, but by regulative principles, we can make alert the inert activities. Just like a rheu- matic crippled man is gradually elevated by some bodily exercises. Similarly, the regulative principles are to make us habit- uated to our dormant service, attitude, but when that is mature, it becomes spontane- ous, and that is pure krishna Conscious- | ness. And such highly elevated Con- sciousness makes one eligible to enter int the Krishna Loka. The living example for much spontaneous love are exhibited by the Gopies and inhabitants of Vrindaban. We can learn this from Srimad Bhagava- tam how much they love Krishna sponta- neously. Your question, ‘“‘what is the relation- ship of sweethearts in Vaikuntha to each other and to Lord Narayan? Is conjugal love, parental affection, and unalloyed friendship there in the Vaikunthas?”’ No. In Vaikuntha there are two kinds of tras- cendental mellows, dasya and the lower half of sakya rasa. The lower half of Sakya means friendship in adoration. And the higher half of Sakya rasa is friendship on equal level. So in Vrindaban the recipro- cation of transcendental humor is higher than in Vaikuntha. It is there more free and spontaneous without any restriction arranged by yogamaya principle. Yes, other slokas in the Shastra that JUNE, 1968 443 SS refer directly to chanting the Holy Names that makes her increased in Krishna Con- of God as the Yuga Dharma are men- xciousness. tioned, in Agnipurana, Kali Shantaram Hoping you are well, and thanking you Upanishad, and many other scriptures. once more for your nice letter, Yes, please decorate the temple with as many pictures as possible. And Jadurany Your ever well-wisher, is very kind and liberal to supply us pic- A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami tures. She is never tired of painting, and JULY 68-7-1 Montreal 3rd July, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 28, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Regarding Bali Maharaj: He is born in the same atheistic family of Maharaj Prahlad. He happened to be the grandson of Ma- haraj Prahlad, and as his great grand- father, Hiranyakasipu was very powerful, and as there was animosity between the demigods and the demons, Bali Maharaj also defeated the demigods several times, and was occupying all the planets. At that time Bamandev appeared as the son of Kasyamuni. Bali Maharaj was very charit- ably disposed. Sometimes the atheists are also very charitable. Persons who believe that we are doing pious activities, making charities and welfare work to the human society, why should we bother about God?—such persons even though very moral and pious in the estimation of the material world, are also demons, on ac- count of their apathy for Krishna Con- sciousness. So, Bali Maharaj was a man of that type. Under the circumstances he was not averse to accept charity and other pious activities. He was being guided by his spiritual master, Sukaracharya. Su- kara means the semina. In other words, one claims to become acharya on the prin- ciple of being born of a Brahmin father. They may be called sukaracharya, or acharya or preacher not by disciplic suc- cession, but on the right of heredity. In In- dia there are still superstitions that one should be initiated by such sukaracharya family. They are called generally as the jatigosain. Jatigosain means the caste spiritual master. All over India, especially in Bengal, this jatigosain spiritual master- ship is very prevalent. But really goswami means one who is master of the influence of different senses, namely the influence of tongue, the influence of mind, the in- fluence of anger, the influence of belly, the influence of genital, and the influence of talking. So one who is master of these influential webbs of sense gratification, he is called goswami. Goswami is not by hereditary chart. So Sukaracharya posed himself as such goswami spiritual master. He had many mystic powers, therefore he was considered to be very influential spiritual master of the demons. So when Bamandev appeared, Bali Maharaj was attracted by His beauty as a Dwarf Brahmin, and as he was charitably disposed, he wanted to give Him some charity. But Sukaracharya, being elevated in mystic yogic powers, he could under- stand that Bamandev was Vishnu. And in order to favor the demigods, He had come there to cheat Bali Maharaj in the shape of begging some charities. Bali Maharaj was puffed up with his material vanities, and Bamandev as He is Vishnu, all-peaceful, without interrupting his attitude, just ap- proached him in the form of a Brahmin, Who has a right to beg something from the princely order. And the principle or- ders also are always disposed, to make charities to the Brahmins. Question, para. 2, answer: Sukaracha- rya as spiritual master of Bali taught him that everything should be offered to 446 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Vishnu. But when Vishnu actually ap- peared before Bali, he was afraid of Bali Maharaj’s charitable disposition. He warned Bali Maharaj that this Bamandev had come there to take everything from him in the shape of charity, therefore he should not promise Him to give anything. This advice revolted Bali Maharaj be- cause he was formerly instructed that everything should be offered to Vishnu, now, why Sukaracharya was asking him not to act by his previous instructions? Su- karacharya was afraid of his own position. He was living at the cost of Bali Maharaj, so if Bamandev would take away every- thing from Bali Maharai, he was thinking how he would live. That is a materialistic temperament. The materialist does not want to serve or to give to Vishnu, because he thinks that by giving away to Vishnu he will be put into poverty-stricken condi- tion. This is materialistic estimation. But actually that is not the fact, as it will be evidenced by the dealing of Bali Maharaj and Bamandev. Question 1, answer: That is the mate- rialistic way of worshipping. Materialists are always careful for maintaining his ma- terial status quo first, and then please Vishnu. Although they profess to be devo- tees of Vishnu. Therefore the Krishna Consciousness persons are greater than such materialistic worshippers. Material- ist person perform all pious activities or devotional activities for some material gain, and as soon as there is any hindrance in the path of material gain, they at once become demon. Therefore bhakti means without any material desires. That is the sign of pure devotee. He has no motive to satisfy his material desires by devotional service. Question 2, answer: That is just his military spirit, that Bali Maharaj says ‘‘If He be the illustrious Lord Vishnu not de- sirous of foregoing His own fame, He shall wrest from me this earth after slay- ing me in battle, or He shall be slain by me.” The last portion of this question is not very clear. Question 3, answer: Why Bali Ma- haraj is considered a Mahajan: Bali Ma- haraj is Mahajan because he wanted to serve Vishnu by disobeying his non- bonafide spiritual master. As explained above, Sukaracharya was hereditary spiri- tual master by seminic succession. But Bali Maharaj first revolted against this stereotyped seminic succession spiritual master, and therefore he is Mahajan. Srila Jiva Goswami has described in his Kara- masandharvha that one should be anxious to accept a spiritual master who is bona- fide in spiritual knowledge. And if need be one should relinquish the connection of hereditary spiritual master and accept a real bonafide spiritual master. So when Sukaracharya advised him contrary to his previous instructions, specifically, he checked Bali Maharaj in the matter of worshipping Vishnu, and thus Sukaracha- rya became at once fallen down from the position of becoming a spiritual master. Nobody can become a spiritual master who is not a devotee of Vishnu. A brahmin may be very expert in the matter of per- forming Vedic rituals, accepting chari- ties, and distributing wealth—all these are exalted qualifications of the brahmins, but the Vedic injunction is, in spite of possess- ing all these qualities, if somebody is against Lord Vishnu, he cannot be a spiri- tual master. So when Sukaracharya ad- vised Bali Maharaj against Vishnu, he at once became unqualified for becoming a spiritual master. Bali Maharaj disobeyed such unqualified spiritual master, and therfore, he is accepted as Mahajan. Ma- hajan means a personality whose foot- prints should be followed. So, his exemplary behavior in rejecting a non- Vaishnava spiritual master being ideal to the bonafide students, he is considered a Mahajan. JULY, 1968 447 If Jadurany wants to paint the picture of Bali Maharaj, it should be like this: 1) The hall must be very nicely decorated, & princely hall, 2) in one side of the hall, the royal throne should be presented as va- cant, and 3) Bali Maharaj should pose himself bowing down before Lord Baman- dev, and Bamandev should be painted with one leg on the earth; and one leg high in the sky; and one leg coming out of his navel, and put on the head of Bali Ma- haraj. This means the charity of one’s pos- sessions is not full for the Supreme Personality of Godhead, but when one’s personal body and head is given to the ser- vice of the Lord, then one becomes per- fect in offering everything to the Lord. This is called complete surrender of everything that a devotee may possess. Bali Maharaj may be shown as not more than 40 years old, very nice looking king, well dressed like the royal order, and with mustache and no beard. Sukaracha- rya should be wearing a Shaivite telok, and also Maharaj Bali can have a Shaivite telok, until after he meets with Bamandev, and then you can change Bali Maharaj’s telok into a Vaishnava one. Yes, Pradyumna is typing that 3rd canto and will send you soon. Hoping you are cll well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. While posting this letter, I have re- Ceived your letter by 2nd July, 1968. I am glad to learn that Kirtan process in the Park is going on well as you received $50.00 last Sunday. This is very encour- aging as in N.Y. also they are following the same process with success. I have re- ceived one letter from Rayarama as he is not going to Boston but he is in L.A. He will write you. Regarding immigration, I am sending here with the copy of the letter addressed to Mr. Hamilton. I think you should see Mr. Hamilton & take from him written letter advising me the right direc- tion. I don’t want to see the U.S. Council. 68-7-2 Montreal 4th July, 1968 My Dear Balai, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of June 20, 1968, and I am so glad to learn that you are living happily as house holders. I want to see all my disciples to live such peace- fully and execute such Krishna Con- sciousness. That is the perfection of life. It does not matter whether one is Brahma- chary or house holder, the real test is how he is executing Krishna Consciousness. Yes, we are in need of our own press very urgently, and as Advaita has in his view to conduct such press, and he is la- boring so hard for fulfilling this desire, certainly Krishna will be very pleased on him and you also for such endeavor. It is contemplated that we may start the press here in Montreal, because there is ample space. It is not yet settled up, but if we de- cide to start, then how Advaita can help this enterprise? Anway, unless Advaita be- comes quite conversant with the matter of conducting a press, I shall not try tostarta press of our own. And when he is satis- fied, then we shall start a well-equipped press. Yes, this is very nice sentiments. All parents should think like that. Maharaj Prahlad, Druva Maharaj, they are ideal child devotees and everyone’s children should be trained in the ideal of such great personalities. Yes, during pregnancy you should live very carefully. Hoping you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 448 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-7-3 Montreal 4th July, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I was in due receipt of your letter dated Sunday, June 23, 1968. And your vivid descrip- tion of the prearrangement of Rathayatra ceremony was so nice and elaborate that it has moved my heart. I thank you very much for grasping the momentum of Krishna Consciousness, by your ad- vanced service attitude. I can only wish that Krishna may give you more and more strength in understanding His transcen- dental nature. The only process for per- ceiving Krishna and His name, qualities, form is our sincere service attitude with our senses. Beginning from the tongue, all our senses are practically led by the tongue sense, whose business is to vibrate and to taste. If we can change the materi- alistic nature of the tongue, by changing of taste and vibration, then automatically the other senses become purified. And we can render sevice to Krishna with purified senses. As such we should try to chant and eat Krishna prasadam as much as possible. Inthe meantime, Gargamuni has come here and I have heard from him the details of your procession and it is so much engladdening to my heart. I thank you all very much for making the Rathayatra fes- tival so successful. Please convey my gratitude to all the boys and girls who par- ticipated in this great transcendental ser- vice. This is the second year, and you have made a great stride from the first year, and in the third year, I hope it will be still more successful. Regarding your pen-friend in South India: I have not as yet received any letter from him, but as soon as I receive any news from him, I shall be glad to give him necessary instructions. In the meantime, if you write to him you can convey this message to the gentleman. Any friend in any part of the worldthat you may contact, try to infuse him with this Krishna Con- sciousness idea. Never waste your time in any other talks. I think our students have already developed this attitude and they are not interested in idle talks. Amburish Maharaj, he set very nice example by en- gaging his mind always on the Lotus Feet of Krishna, and talking always about him. We should follow the same example. I think there is a chance of my going to Vancouver and if I go there, I may call some of youthere to opena branch. I think you shall be the first man to come there, and I shall be glad to know also how many of you can go to Vancouver for performing Kirtan. I understand from Gargamuni that Hayagriva has sent you a letter inviting some of you to live with him in W. Vir- ginia where they are attempting to open a new center, but I am not very much hope- ful about this center because there are so many impediments. I have already written to Kirtanananda that in such suspicious and unfavorable conditions, no Brahma- chary will be interested to go there. If there is actually any invitation for going there, I send herewith instructions to all of you that for the present, there is no neces- sity of going there. And in future, also, nobody shall go there without getting my permission. I shall be glad to hear from you about further details of our successful Rathaya- tra procession. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 6th July, 1968 68-7-4 San Francisco Dear Sriman Vinode Patel, Please accept my blessings. I beg to JULY, 1968 449 acknowledge receipt of your letter dated July 2nd, 1968. The language was Hindi, and the script was Guzarti. I am not ac- customed to read Guzarti script, but I can understand a little Hindi. Anyway, I have grasped the substance of your letter that you are a devotee of Lord Krishna Ran- chorji, of Dakore. You also desire to be- come my disciple. You have passed your M.Com. degree; and you want to stay with my other disciples in San Francisco. These are all nice proposals. And I think there is nothing objectionable. Garga- muni came here day before yesterday, and he has gone back yesterday after noon. He spoke to me about you, that you are com- ing in the temple and taking some active part in the affairs of our temple. I under- stand also that you have come to USA on students’ visa. But you do not wish to prosecute your studies any more, but want to do some business. I know also that you are a family man, and in India you have got your wife and 2 daughters. The first thing is that you may remain in the temple with the permission of Jayananda Brah- machari, the president of the temple, and as you are rendering some service to the temple, I think he will be very glad to ac- cept you as one of the inmates. Your desire to do something tangible for the temple and it is a very welcome suggestion. There are many things to be done in the matter of the temple. Perhaps you will ap- preciate that this Radha Krishna temple is the one only in San Francisco. And I know there are many Guzarti gentlemen in San Francisco to whom you can ap- proach for improvement of the temple. If we get our own temple we can organize so many things, which will be appreciated both by the Indians and the Americans. So far business is concerned, Gargamuni is getting goods from some importer on Credit, and he is selling the goods and then Paying him the amount. So, he has not got to invest his capital in the business, but he is a good salesman. And if youcan import some goods, according to his choice, and on your account, I think he will have no objection to purchase from you on the same system as he is doing with others. He did not talk with me about your busi- ness proposal. Under the circumstances, if you want to do something, you can talk with Gargamuni personally, and if he con- sults me I shall give my opinion. I know your community Patels in Guzarti are business community. And they can do lots of lucrative business, for material benefit. But you should know that we are not doing any business for material benefit. Garga- muni spends his profit for Krishna Con- sciousness. He is so much elevated that he works very hard for doing business dili- gently, but the profit made out of it, he spends for Krishna. If you wish to do busi- ness in that spirit, that will enhance your spiritual assessment. Generally, people are inclined to do business or make profit for sense gratification; such tendency is the cause of material bondage. But to act for Krishna is the cause for opening the door for liberation. So, I shall not try to implicate you in business if you are not ready to award the profit for Krishna’s benefit. The best thing will be that if you can come here for some days, say, at least for a fortnight, you can remain here with us in the temple here, and talk with me in details before you become my disciple. Actually, I shall be very glad to accept an educated and intelligent disciple like you, but first of all we must meet and you should know whether you can accept me as your Spiritual Master, or I can accept you as my disciple. This is preliminary necessity. Iam therefore requesting you to come here at least for a fortnight, and let us understand one another. I think it is bet- ter if you reply me this letter in English, because I find it difficult in reading Gu- zarti, script, though I can understand Hindi fairly well. 450 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Please convey my blessings to Garga- muni and all the boys and girls in San Francisco. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-5 Montreal 7th July, 1968 Los Angeles My Dear Dayananda, Please accept my blessings, and offer the same to Srimati Nandarani, and to your daughter. I hope you are all well in Krishna Consciousness. And I am so glad to learn that Krishna is endowing you with more and more intelligence in the matter of understanding Krishna Consciousness. Krishna is very kind and any sincere devo- tee is always taken care of by His Lordship in all respects. Please regularly chant Hare Krishna, read Srimad Bhagavatam, and very soon you will get other books also, like Bhagavat Gita As It Is, Teach- ings of Lord Chaitanya, and always read and talk about Krishna between your- selves, and always remember that this life is but a flash only. We have to seek after our eternal life in Krishna Consciousness and be transferred to the spiritual world in the association of Krishna. Continue to keep your present attitude and certainly even within this life, you will be success- ful in attaining perfection of Krishna Con- sciousness. Regarding Mr. John Fugate: This news is very encouraging. As we are spreading our Krishna Consciousness in your coun- try, we need a center in Florida, and if Mr. Fugate cooperates with this movement, certainly he will be very much benefited. So you can keep him alive by correspon- dence and send him our books and litera- ture to read. So the ten acres of land which Mr. John Fugate wants to utilize for some spiritual cultivation center can well be uti- lized in developing a New Vrindaban. In San Francisco, they are developing a New Jagannatha Puri and in Florida we shall develope a New Vrindaban, and it may be that Montreal can be developed into New Mayapur (The Birthplace of Lord Chaitanya). So far I am concerned, I wish to live the major portion of my remaining days of my life in the Western world to propagate this movement, but I could not obtain my permanent visa on some technical ground. Some lawyers advised me to ap- peal but I did not like the idea. Here in Canada, I may get a permanent visa but the difficulty is that during the winter the severe cold here may be unbearable for me or for my attendants. The male atten- dant, Goursundar, may agree, but the fe- male attendant, Mrs. Goursundar, is not agreeable. Anyway—apart from this point of view, it is sure that I personally cannot tolerate the severe cold here. Under the circumstances, if some arrangement is made in Florida, then during the winter season, we can work there, and as you have said that many tourists and well-to- do men assemble there, it will be a good opportunity for preaching Krishna Con- sciousness at that time. Another point is that I would have preferred to have perma- nent residence visa in USA rather than in Canada, and I have heard that if some- body adopts me as a child or something else, I can get the permanent visa. But if you adopt me as your old child, probably the visa department will laugh, that what you will do with an old child who is going to die very soon. But, if there is possibility to adopt me as old father, then you can try for it. If there is any law that you can adopt any old man as your father, and take care of him, then you can inquire from the Los Angeles immigration department and try for it. JULY, 1968 451 Thanking you once more for your nice sentiments expressed in your letter under reply, and hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Please deliver the enclosed letter to Anniruddha das. 68-7-6 Montreal 7th July, 1968 Sri Mangalniloy Brahmachari Sri Chaitanya Goudiya Math 35 Sri Satish Mukhergee Road Kalighat Calcutta-26, INDIA My Dear Mangalniloy Brahmachari, Please accept my blessings. I hope everything is well with you. I do not know where you are now staying, but I hope this letter will reach you. When I was in India there was some talks with you about your coming to this part of the world, but the difficulty was that even I had sincere de- sire to sponsor you, and if I sponsor your coming here through my society, the gov- ernment of India would not allow you ei- therthe passport or travelers exchange. At the present stage, sponsoring is possible only ifI guarantee to pay your expenditure so long you shall remain in the foreign country. My society will not agree to spend so much money for anyone whom they do not know. I was thinking about you since I have come back this time to this country, how to get you here, because there is ample possibilities for preaching Krishna Consciousness movement all over western world now, because the peo- ple are wanting something real spiritual life. Unfortunately, so-called swamis and yogis come in this part of the world and they exploit people and then go away. So the government here is also not very opti- mistic of such kind of swamis. But in spite of all dificulties, there is ample possibility of spreading pure devotional service of the Lord, or Krishna Consciousness move- ment, all over the western world. If you want to come here, then I shall have to arrange for your return ticket (round the world) which will cost $1200.00 or in Indian exchange, Rs. 12,000/-. Similarly, if we guarantee for your stay here for 6 months, that will also cost you at least $200.00 per month, which means another Rs. 12,000/-. If you, however, can arrange to spend this Rs. 24,000/- then it may be possible that I can arrange for your sponsoring and send- ing you a return ticket. On hearing from you we can think of further procedure in this connection. I hope you will reply this letter forth with and oblige. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami PS. [TEXT UNCLEAR] 68-7-7 Montreal 7th July, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 2, 1968, describing very briefly and emo- tionally about the nice success of our Rathayatra festival, When Gargamuni came here the other day he also described it so nicely and now you can understand the specimen of transcendental pleasure in which the human society as a whole can take part and realize transcendental bliss. The Car Festival was very simple. After all, it is a car with 4 wheels, but it at- tracted the people so enthusiastically be- cause there was His Lordship, the Jagganatha. Atheistic people may call it that the Jagganatha Murti was made of wood, and the car was also made of wood, but the spiritual bliss can be exacted from 452 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda anything, simply in Krishna Conscious- ness. Even accepting the whole affair as wooden, a Krishna Consciousness person can understand that wood is nothing but display of Krishna’s energy. So it is the Krishna Consciousness energy that gives us transcendental bliss, just like it is the electric energy passing through copper cable which gives us electric light and heat. Simply the Krishna Consciousness electric energy can immediately be attrac- tive by developing our sense of Krishna Consciousness, which I am sure you are experiencing gradually how easily it can be done. Now, it may be mentioned in this connection that India’s electric energy of Krishna Consciousness is gradually de- veloping in your country, and prior to this movement, anyone who came to this country from India to give the American people spiritual enlightenment, simply speculated on the mental platform. In the Bhagavad Gita it is clearly said that devo- tional service which is called Rajayoga, or the king of all yoga systems, is transcen- dental and very pleasing to perform. (I have received one letter from Dayananda also, and the reply is sent herewith, about his improved realization of Krishna Con- sciousness. ) There is a good chance for opening a center, in Florida, through the exigency of Mr. John Fugate, a friend of Dayananda. To implement this transcendental bliss to the people of your country there is im- mense work to be done ahead and this Rathayatra festival is only a bit of sample. If we get opportunity we shall be able to over flood your country with waves of transcendental bliss, by the Grace of Krishna. We can introduce various other ceremonials in connection with Krishna and His different expansions or incarna- tions in such a nice way that people are sure to be attracted by such thing and be- come immersed in Krishna Conscious- ness. So far yourcenter is concerned, now you have also got to introduce such cere- monies in Los Angeles. We have got alto- gether now 7 or 8 centers, and if each and every center endeavors to rise up to the re- quired standard, it will be a great success. Yesterday Janardan took me to a nice church here called Notre Dame, a very nice wooden structural workmanship with colorful figures and windows, decorated with nicely painted pictures about the Crucifixion of Lord Jesus Christ. Every- thing was grotesque. Generally the Ro- man Catholic religion depends on this Crucifixion incidence in the life of Lord Jesus Christ, but I think depictation of this incidence simply stimulates the tensions of difference of opinion, and difference of religious principles, between the Jews and the Christians. My idea is that if sim- ply by narrating the Crucifixion incident of Lord Jess Christ, the Roman Catholic Religion can spread to such a wide area of the world, how much there is great po- tency of spreading our Krishna Con- sciousness by depicting hundreds of thousands of such incidences like Rathayatra. There is not one incidence like Rathayatra, but there are many hundreds of thousands of incidences in different ap- pearances of the incarnations of Lord Krishna. In different cities and different centers we can introduce such multi- pastimeous ceremonies of Lord Krishna. And certainly people will be engladdened to observe such transcendental and happy ceremonies. So in Los Angeles, as prom- ised by Mukunda, you try to construct a grand temple and then we shall introduce gradually many ceremonial functions, which the people will be so glad to enjoy. Think of Krishna always and try to work sincerely, and everything will come automatically. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JULY, 1968 453 Montreal 9th July, 1968 68-7-8 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated June 27, 1968, and my first thanks to you because your picture has attracted the attention of Swami Sat-chit-ananda’s students. This means your picture is helping us forward in Krishna Consciousness so that we could attract even the yogis like Sat-chit- ananda’s students. Actually this is the fact. There is a verse in Srimad Bhaga- vatam which was explained by Lord Chaitanya in 64 different ways before Sarvabhouma Bhattacharya. In that verse it is stated that even the atmaramas or the persons who take trascendental pleasure in their own self—actually people should be trained up to be happy with one’s own self. So the yogis and the philosophers, they are trying to be satisfied with their own self. But even such persons are at- tracted by the pastimes of Radha-Krishna, because the transcendental qualities of Radha-Krishna is attractive for persons who are already liberated from the 3 ma- terial qualities. Anyway, the picture which you sent to Montreal is well- received here, and everyone is speaking highly of your painting capacity and I am so pleased to see the picture. And you have improved very much in your painting capacity also by serving Krishna so faith- fully by the talent which Krishna has en- dowed you with. Yesterday there was meeting of the Indians and all of them spoke very highly of your picture. Please try to paint the following pictures in quantity—namely, the “Mohan Madhuri” which you have sent here in Montreal, that is to say, Radha and Krishna with the 8 principal gopies; the Samkirtan picture of Lord Chaitanya; and Pancha Tattva. These pictures should be popularized in our movement and try to paint them very nicely. I am anxious about you because you are conducting one of the important departments of our activities, namely, painting of pictures and this will make your life successful. Keep yourself always healthy because you have to work so much for Krishna, and whenever you feel some difficulty, you may immediately inform me. This girl, Madhavi Lata, has come here to stay, for some days, and I learned that several girls have come from New York to you; I do not know what they are doing, and I shall be glad to hear from you farther in this matter. I have sent Satsvarupa instructions for the story of Maharaj Bali. And you can begin from that. Your questions aobut Lord Brahma: “Brahma is a great devotee of Lord Krishna and Brahma Samhita, etc., reveal his knowledge of the Lord. So are these 2 stories (namely, 1. He doubted Krishna became a cowherds Boy and stole His cows, etc.; 2. Krishna showed him the 1/4 part of His creation after Brahma had to designate himself as 4-headed Brahma.), are these 2 stories just examples to we conditioned souls, who think we can put God under restrictions?” Brahma is not among the great devotees, but he is a dev- otee of Krishna. All the great devotees of Krishna are in the Krishna loka, constant companions of Krishna at Vrindaban. They are actually great devotees of Krishna. Brahma is great devotee in the sense that he wants to serve Krishna the best with some material power. That means that he has a tendency to en joy some material opulence. So Krishna has made him the number 1 living creature within this universe. But a great devotee does not want even the position of a Brahma. He would prefer to become an insignificant living creature like an ant or spider in the house of a great devotee, then to become Brahma, who has got the inclination of becoming powerful in the material 454 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda world. The great devotees are always li- bertated from all material desires, big or small. That is the sign of great devotees. Brahma came to Krishna because he has very exalted idea about Krishna, and he was doubtful how his Lord could come into the material world and become a cow- herds Boy. This incidence is known as Brahma Bemohan lila, or the pastime of bewildering Brahma. In the beginning of Srimad Bhagavatam, it is stated that great personalities like Brahma become bewil- dered in the understanding of the Abso- lute Truth. So sometimes such pastimes are manifested by the Lord in order to teach the so-called mental speculators. Even Arjuna was bewildered, although he was His constant companion. Arjuna also was talking from the material view point of standing. All this bewilderment of great devotees are created by the Lord, for 2 purposes: one purpose, is that even great personalities like Brahma and Arjuna somtimes become bewildered, and there- fore, unless they present themselves in such position of bewilderment, the com- mon men do not have the chance to under- stand Krishna. If Brahma would not have posed himself as not knowing the whole truth, then some truths about the tran- scendental position of Krishna would not have been explained. Besides that, we cannot calculate even one day’s duration of the life of Brahma. So, Krishna appears only once in a day of Brahma, and that takes a rotation of unlimited trillions of so- lar years. So some incidences take place in one day, and other incidents take place in another day. Just like we do something today, and something else in a week, and we forget today’s action tomorrow, and to- morrow’s action after a week. And that is the nature of conditioned life. Therefore, Brahma being a big conditioned soul, this forgetfulness of one’s affairs in the next day are not uncommon. Just as we are for- getful, Brahma also is subject to forgetful- ness. Our so much so-called knowledge is nothing in comparison to Krishna’s full knowledge. That is admitted by Brahma there in that verse, that people may say they know You very well, but so far I am concerned, I admit I do not know even a farthing of You! I hope you will understand this expla- nation, and if you have got further ques- tions, then you can put. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 10th July, 1968 68-7-9 New Vrindaban My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Just on re- ceipt of your last letter I sent you one de- tailed letter about the scheme of New Vrindaban. But since then I have not re- ceived any letter from you. In the mean- time I also received one letter from Sriman Kirtanananda Swami which also I have replied duly, but I have not received any reply from him also. So I am very much anxious to know from you also how much this scheme has advanced. So far I could understand on the letter of Kir- tanananda, that we had no freedom of action because the land belongs to Mr. Rose, who wants to develop an institution appealing to all sections of seekers in spiritual enlightenment. Such ideal of im- personal views can never be successful. That is the distinction between imperson- alism and personalism. The impersona- lists ultimate goal is something void, and therefore, any attempt for self-realization ending in voidness is all the same for the impersonalists. But we the personalists, we do not agree that all systems of self- realizing process ends in the same goal. In the Bhagavad Gita, it is explicitly said that JULY, 1968 455 ee — ee ee the worshippers of different demigods ul- timately reach the planets of respective demigods; the worshippers of forefathers also go to different pitri planets, respec- tively; the worshippers of mammon re- main in the mammonish world; and the persons in Krishna Consciousness, ulti- mately reach to the planet of Krishna loka. So our mission is to reach the supreme planet, in the spiritual sky, namely the Abode of Krishna. As such, we cannot compromise that all sorts of meditation gives the same result. This sort of view is practiced and preached by the impersona- lists missionaries like the Rama-Krishna mission, that one may follow any path, but he reaches the same destination. There is no Vedic evidence, neither any proof of the acharya principles. You know that Lord Buddha was Hindu, born in India, in a royal family, but because He advocated voidism, His philosophy was not accepted by the leaders of Vedic principles. For the time being, Lord Buddha’s philosophy was accepted by emperor Ashoka, and due to royal influence, it spread all over India. But later on, when Shankaracharya preached the Vedic principle, the voidism of Lord Buddha was driven out of India. Similarly, when Ramanujacharya found Shankaracharya a second edition of Bud- dhist philosophy, he also expunged Shankaracharya as compromising the Buddha, and he established Personal wor- ship of Lord Vishnu. Later on, other acharyas, including Sri Chaitanya, devel- oped the transcendental reciprocation of devotional service to the Supreme Person- ality of Godhead and Lord Chaitanya preached that loving service in the highest conjugal love with Krishna is also possi- ble. So we are preaching the highest prin- ciples of loving service to the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and as such, there is no scope for compromising with any of the kinds of philosophies of the im- personalist school. If Mr. Rose wants something for the satisfaction of all sections of spiritualists, I think your endeavor in that part of the country will not be very successful. Un- der the circumstances, I would advise you to live with me, and try to develope this line of preaching work as we have been doing since the last two years. At the present moment, I am just organizing a Samkirtan party and if you come here, then we can make a rehersal of the Chaita- nya drama which you have already made. My idea is, Samkirtan with some dra- matic demonstration, by the members, will be attractive to the people in general. So I am trying to concentrate the idea at the present moment here in Montreal, be- cause in the temple, we have got sufficient space and if the Samkirtan party is suc- cessful here, as we shall try to make some experiment in the local expo grounds, then we shall make a program to goto Eu- rope, starting from London, and make dem- onstations of this drama and Samkirtan in different places. I do not know how much you will appreciate this idea, but if you think it proper, you may come and join us here. The New Vrindaban scheme under the present inconveniences is not possible to be successful ultimately. Hope you are well, and awaiting your early reply. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-10 Montreal 10th July, 1968 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated July 5, 1968, and regarding the Kirtan collection, I have talked with Hansadutta who has arrived here last evening, and as 456 Letters from Srila Prabhupada proposed by you, that the contribution should be divided 50% for the temple, and 50% for the Samkirtan fund, is quite all right. Regarding Mr. Kallman, I am enclos- ing herewith one letter addressed to him, and if you think it is wise to present my letter to him, and as requested therein, if you and Mr. Kallman come here I may be able to settle up your differences by the Grace of Krishna. But if you think the matter has gone too far, that there is no possibility of settlement, then you do not present the letter and let the matter take its own course as desired by Krishna. Regarding DiaNippon, please let me know whether you have sent the corrected proof sheets, and advise the Japanese bank in New York of necessary credit let- ter. Regarding Dwarkin and Son: I think you have sent one cablegram. If not, please send it now, and also ask United Shipping Corporation whether they have transferred the money to Dwarkin & Sons. If not ask them to do it. And ask Dwarkin & Sons to send more tanpuras covering the value which they received from United Shipping Corporation. Also, if somebody is coming here in Montreal from New York, please send me the dictaphone transcribing set lying in my closet. I think there are two sets—one ofthem may be sent. Also, please send the Bhagavatam copy as I told you before. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I would like to know whether or not you have collected the money for that Ger- man book you took here from me. You can please send one set of Srimad Bhagava- tams to this address, to Sri Bamandas: Walther Eidlitz—Bavergrand 18A/III— Uppsala—Sweden. ACB 68-7-11 Montreal 12th July, 1968 My Dear Chidananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 8, 1968, and in the meantime, Uddhavadas, and Krishna das Brahmacharies have also come here via New York. Since I wrote you about the stop payment instruction, I have received payment of both the checks and money order. So you need not worry about it. When you go to Australia, you must take with you one mridanga and at least 4 pairs of cymbals to begin Kirtan immediately there. When I came to your country in 1965, I brought with me only one pair of cymbals, and it has increased to so many pairs, at least 50 times. And I came here without mridanga. So when you go to Australia, you have to similarly increase the number of cymbals propor- tionately, namely, 50 times 4. That should be your mission, and I am confident that you can do it because you are a sincere soul. If you can introduce this Krishna Consciousness movement in such a dis- tant place, Lord Chaitanya will pour His incessant blessings upon you, and your life will be glorious. In this connection, I may give you the example of the boy, Subal, who was struggling in Santa Fe. Although he is not very much qualified from the worldly point of view, still his struggle for existence in Krishna Con- sciousness is advancing him more and more in spiritual realization. So far I know about you, you are intelligent, qual- ified, and willing worker for Krishna Consciousness, and I hope if youtry to es- tablish a center of our society in Sidney or any one of the important cities, of Austra- lia, it will be a record in the history of Lord Chaitanya’s movement. I hope with this seriousness, you will go there, and al- ways pray Lord Chaitanya to help you. He is very kind, and He is always ready to JULY, 1968 457 help a willing worker. And as soonas you establish one center, it may be that I may go there for some time and try to help you in your organization. But before starting you Should make an estimate of the proce- dure of your working there, as well as you must be assured of getting a job there. Here in America you are working and you are getting some money, but in Australia if you do not get immediately some ocupa- tion, it will be risky. So you must consider all these pros and cons intelligently and then, depending on the Grace of Krishna, you can go there, chanting all the ways, Hare Krishna. Regarding some of your questions: Your question was, “I understand that we are not this body, mind, intelligence or ego, but are pure consciousness or pure spirit soul. This consciousness has been polluted by association with matter. By association with Krishna this conscious- ness will be purified. This consciousness is all throughout our body giving us the power to think, will, and feel, but how is consciousness interrelated with matter? Is consciousness like mist that hangs around a mountain? How do matter and spirit connect and how do they work together? I hope you under stand my question. And what exactly takes place when conscious- ness becomes purified?” A living entity has constitutionally mind, intelligence, and ego, but they are contaminated incon- tact with matter. At the present moment, our ego is working under some designa- tion. Somebody is thinking that he is an American or Indian, and other is thinking that he is Brahmachary or Householder. This sort of ego is material but when one is firmly convinced that he does not be- long to any material designation, but, his pure identification is eternal servitorship of Krishna—in Vedic language it is called, Aham Brahma asmi. That means I am spirit soul. The Mayavad philosophers on account of their negligence to serve Krishna, may sometimes come to this un- derstanding of Aham Brahma asmi, but they again fall down to the material plat- form on account of such negligence. Therefore, this chanting process is being constantly in Krishna Consciousness, there is no such fear of falling down of the devotees. Your statement ‘‘By association with Krishna this consciousness will be purified” is right. Consciousness is not related with matter. Just like the air is al- ways pure, but when there is a mixture of dust in the air, it appears to be a cloud. The cloud and air are different sub- stances. Similarly consciousness is pure spiritual, but when the consciousness de- sires to enjoy matter, it becomes cloudy and dusty, or contaminated. And then at that time, thinking, feeling, and willing everything becomes polluted. The same example as I have given several times that the proprietor of a car and the car are dif- ferent identities, but when the proprietor thinks that this car is for his enjoyment, he becomes absorbed in such thought, and as soon as there is some loss or accident to the car, he thinks that he is hurt. This con- sciousness is false, but one suffers the conse- quences on account of false identification. Consciousness is not like mist, but when it is materially contaminated, it looks like that. Another example, that water from the sky falling down on the ground looks muddy, but water is not muddy, it is clear. When the water is again filtered, and muddy things are precipitated, the water comes to its original lustre, crystal clear. So our Krishna Consciousness movement is that we have to clear our consciousness by the transcendental addition of Krishna chemical. Then everything will be nice and clear, and we shall be able to see our identification without any designation. I think your questions are answered up to the last part, when you inquired ‘‘what ex- actly takes place when consciousness is becoming purified?” 458 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Please keep me informed about your plans and program for Australia, and I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-12 Montreal 12th July, 1968 My Dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 3, 1968. I have heard about your successful execution of Rathayatra festival in San Francisco from so many sources. And I am so glad to hear the news. But till now I have not received any newspaper clip- pings, or photostats of news articles. Iam very much anxious to get them. Yes, this Jay boy has come here, and I have seen he is sincere in accepting this principles. I have decided to initiate him very soon. They have got a two days’ en- gagement of Kirtan here in the expo pavil- lion, and they have agreed to pay $150.00 per day. If the two days’ program is suc- cessful, then they may get more money and more engagements. Yes, I have received Sriman Vinode Patel’s letter, and I have replied the same also promptly. He appears to be a great help to your temple, and please try to keep him nicely. This is the sequence of Krishna Consciousness. He is a foreigner and belonging to a different country and culture, but Krishna Consciousness is so nice that one forgets his material designa- tions and one tries to associate with simi- lar Krishna consciousness persons. This is a Sanskrit word, is called Swajati Snigdha Saya. That means melted on the pure spiritual platform. We hope to bring everyone to such spiritual platform so that everyone will forget his material false identification and come to the real plat- form of becoming eternally the servant of Krishna. I am so glad that your parents are real- izing the importance of Krishna Con- sciousness through their worthy son, Jayananda. A similar incident was there when Lord Chaitanya was present, that one father became a devotee of Lord Chaitanya through the exigency of the son. The son was prior a devotee than the father. So Chaitanya Mahaprabhu asked the father whether he was father, or the son was father, and the father replied that in his spiritual enlightenment, his son was his father. So you are acting like a good fa- ther to your parents. So Krishna Con- sciousness will spread nicely in this way. And Lord Chaitanya will be very much pleased on your benevolent activites. I have seen your father and mother, and they are very good souls, especially I re- member your mother. And I hope by the Grace of Lord Krishna they will take to this Krishna Consciousness very seri- ously. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-13 Montreal 12th July, 1968 Allston, Mass. My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 10, 1968, and I have noted the contents about Mr. Coomey, assistant district director of Boston department of Justice. As you say that within a day or two he is going to re- ply my letter, I shall wait for his reply, un- till next week, and then I shall take steps as it may be needed. In the meantime I have noted his instructions as conveyed by you. I understand that you are trying to organize a Brahmacharini ashram. A JULY, 1968 459 Brahmacharini ashram is certainly a great necessity because there are so many girl devotees who are attached to our Krishna Consciousness movement. Those who are married couple, there is nothing to be said—simply to live together as husband and wife. But those who are not married certainly such Brahmacharies and Brahmacharinis should not live together. That is a special restricted term of our cult. But because in your country there is no distinction between boys and girls, or man and woman, they can freely mix without any restriction, I did not give too much stricture on this point because by such stricture they might be annoyed, and whatever Krishna Consciousness they are trying to develope might have been checked. But factually if you can organize a Brahmacharini ashram, it will be very nice idea. And I think that our Jadurany or similar other girl students of a little bit ad- vanced, they can manage such ashram. But there is another difficulty, that when the girls live together they will pick up quarrels. Anyway, that sort of quarreling will continue whenever there is a little bit individuality. That is the nature. Even such quarreling is visible in the spiritual world also. But the main thing is that in Boston, youarethe only earning member. How you will maintain such a Brahma- charini ashram separately unless there is some source of income. I expected that the pictures painted by the Brahma- charinis would be a source of income to the society. If some arrangement for such sales organization can be made, then it will be a very excellent idea. The Brahma- charinis cannot go, of course, for beg- ging, but if some of them agree to go out and sell our books and literature, that will also be helpful. Some source of income by honest endeavor must be there, other- wise, how a nice Brahmacharini ashram can be maintained? In the ashram we must supply all inmates necessary nutritious food. Especially in your country, because they were accustomed to take meat and some protein food, just like regular sup- ply of dahl, chopaties, rice, fruits and milk, must be properly administered. There is no need of eating more than ne- cessity, but the minimum demands must be supplied. But if you can organize such nice Brahmacharini ashram it will be a great success of our society. There is a great need for this. And I wish sincerely that except for husband and wife, every- one should live separately, man separate from woman, and woman separate from man. I shall be glad to hear from you about further developments. But one thing can be very nicely utilized, if the Brahmacharinis learn typographic ma- chine. That will be a great help because printing is one of our most important line of activities. And if the Brahmacharinis help us in the making of letter printing sheets for photo offset printing, that will be a great help. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-14 Montreal 13th July, 1968 My Dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. I under- stand that you have now gone to Santa Fe and trying to get a job there. And I hope Krishna will arrange for this. Do not be worried. Another boy, Christopher Fyyn, may be going there very soon. So three to- gether try to live peacefully and always discuss on the Bhagavad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam, chant Hare Krishna in regu- lar classes, and whenever the opportunity is there, go to the park as they are doing in Boston and New York, and getting good collection. In this connection you can consult 460 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda Hansadutta in New York, and Satsvarupa in Boston how they are successfully carry- ing on. Here also the Brahmacharies are chanting in the Expo, and the arrange- ment is they will get some lump sum of money, and they have already gotten $300.00. Hansadutta has also collected, by chanting, $150.00. So if there is no jobs at all, then you can fully engage your- self in Krishna’s job by chanting in the parks and public places, and certainly Krishna will send you salaries. Krishna provides all living entities and why not his sincere ‘devotees? Therefore, we have to become simply sincere in our Krishna Consciousness movement, and all other things will follow. Hoping you are both well, Your ever well-wisher ACB 68-7-15 Montreal 13th July, 1968 My Dear Subal das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of July 11, 1968, and it appears that things are not very happy there, in spite of Woomapati’s pres- ence. How is it that you do not get any work? Woomapati knows some technical work. Is there only workin the res- turants, and there is no other work? Another boy, Christopher Fynn, may be going there very soon. And this letter covered is addressed to him. He is, so farI learned from Janardan, he is educated boy, and try to live together very peace- fully in Krishna Consciousness. The busi- ness of Krishna Conscious persons is to enjoy by mutual association on the basis of understanding Krishna from Bhagavad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam. So when you become three together, you should utilize your time by discussions on Krishna, and chanting Hare Krishna. Even you do not get some job, Krishna willnot put you into difculty. But try to get some job, and work for the improvement of the temple. And whenever there is op- portunity, try to chant in public parks, and collect some money from the gathering, and surely Krishna will help you in spreading this sublime gospel of Krishna Consciousness. By the by, I require yo to find out the duplicate copies of Srimad Bhagavatam, 2nd Canto, and a few chapters of the 3rd Canto, which are lying in my closet room, and send to me immediately. I want to pre- pare it for printing in Japan just after the printing of TLC is finished. I have de- cided it now definitely that all my printing works now shall be done in Japan. In America it is too expensive, and in India it is too much botheration. Therefore in fu- ture if there is money sufficient I wish to print each volume of my book, 5000 cop- ies. Now, very soon we shall get 5000 copies of TLC and we have to organize the sales propaganda. If there is sale, then there is no scarcity of matter for printing. Mukunda has written that he is acquainted with some man for selling Back to God- heads, and you can just contact him to know further about it. I am sending you today the balance book sheets of TLC to Brahmananda. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, While fixing this letter I have received your second letter also. I understand that you are purchasing a printing machine. When you have the machine some body must join you to work anybody you like and I shall arrange for that. If it is possible to print Srimad Bhagavatam you can im- mediately begin it and I shall pay for the paper, binding etc. We want to print them immediately. If you can actually print our books in your ISKCON Press then a great problem will be solved. And if not any JULY, 1968 461 more I shall work with you provided you can give me the visa to stay. Please let me know how far you are ahead in this pro- posal. Your ever well-wisher, A.C.B. 68-7-16 Montreal 13th July, 1968 Santa Fe My Dear Christopher, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 9, 1968, and I thank you very much. Pre- vious to this I think I received one letter from you when I was either in San Fran- cisco, or Los Angeles, and whenever I re- ceive some letter, I reply it promptly, so it may be that my reply is missing due to your uncertain whereabouts. I can understand that you are mixing with a crowd of hodge-potch men but none of them will ever get the real thing by such hodge-potch philosophy. We are fol- lowing a standard philosophy, acknowl- edged by standard acharyas, namely, “‘Harer Nama, Harer Nama, Hare Na- maiba Kevalam. Kalau Nasteva, Nasteva, Nasteva Gatir Anyatha.” The people of this age are of short duration of life, they are very slow in the matter of seriously understanding spiritual importance of life, and even some of them are inclined, like yourself, by misfortune they associate with hodge-potch men like those you have mentioned in your letter—namely, Yogananda, Alan Watts, Maharishi, Leary, etc.—because they are unfortunate and severely disturbed in mind on account of various frustrations and desires. Iam glad to learn that still you have got some glimpses of understanding Krishna Consciousness, and I hope this faint idea may one day develop into reality, and your life become successful. So far the hodge- potch men; they are gradually being de- feated, and perhaps you may know that Maharishi Mahesh has left your land with great disappointment—but his mission to cheat your people was successful. He wanted to collect some money and he cheated so many people because they wanted to be cheated, and now he is in In- dia, and so many western boys are still go- ing there and paying some money for interview and hotel charges, and still fol- lowing the so-called yoga system. I can challenge all this so-called yoga societies in the western countries that they are not standard in terms of Vedic yoga system. The preliminary processes of yoga system is to control the senses, and practice some bodily position by which the mind can be made fixed up on the point of Vishnu Murti. But none of them do practice like that, but generally they are attracted by the bodily exercises only, haphazardly. And they take it as yoga practice. And oth- ers, they are addicted to sex indulgence and intoxication habit. Our system is completely different from theirs. In the beginning, we simply invite men to come and join us in the trasncendental vibration by chanting Hare Krishna. We do not say that you pay me something and I give you this chanting. But this chanting is open without any secret, and we do not ask any- one to pay for it. But the chanting is tran- scendental, and therefore, simply by vibration, one gradually becomes spiritu- ally advanced, and thus he offers himself to become my disciple. In that disciple- ship also, I do not charge anything. Nei- ther do I offer anything new. I offer the same Hare Krishna beads, but it becomes spiritually powerful on account of being delivered in disciplic succession. And practically we see that the students who are initiated in this way, they are advanc- ing slowly and surely, and any one of my 462 Letters from Srila Prabhupada students can challenge any student of so- called yogis, and that is practical evi- dence. So, I would advise you not to waste your time in such hodge-potch society, but follow the principles rigidly, and faith- fully, and your life will be successful. You say that you do not really know enough about what they are following, because you have not assimilated the philosophy. But if you take the philosophy seriously, certainly you will be able to convince oth- ers. I am glad to learn that you are return- ing to Santa Fe, and I hope you will have good association there and you will be profited by some sincere workers in Santa Fe. I am glad to learn also that you some- times fast the whole day, and chant. It is a very good idea and you can follow this principle rigidly two days in a month, namely the Ekadasis. I have got always time to answer the letters of sincere souls because my life is dedicated for their ser- vice. So you are always welcome to send your inquiries. And I shall always try to enlighten you to my best capacity. You have kindly asked me what you have to do. That I shall tell you later on, when you are fixed up in our line of thought. So it is Krishna’s Grace that you are going to Santa Fe, and try to assimilate our phi- losophy there, and then, I shall let you know what to do there. Thanking you once more, and hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-17 Montreal 14th July, 1968 My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated July 8, 1968, along with Hayagriva’s letters. I have replied Hayagriva in detail—you will see it. Our only life and soul is Kirtan, and by the Grace of Krishna, you are Kir- tanananda. So the present activities which you are performing there, chanting and preparing Prasadam for the Deity, is very nice program. This chanting of Hare Krishna and our sincere desire to serve Krishna will make everything clear, even if there is some impediments, because from Srimad Bhagavatam we understand that a system of religiousity is to be under- stood as the most perfect if by following such system, we enrich our tendency to love God. Actually that tendency is in ev- eryone, but on account of not being asso- ciated with pure devotees, our love is placed on something non-God. The whole process of Krishna Consciousness is to re- place our love to Krishna. So any process that helps us to increase our love of Krishna, that is the best system of religi- ousity. Such system cannot be checked by any material impediments, and such de- velopment of love of Krishna is without any cause. Chanting of Hare Krishna is not meant for achieving any other better thing than Krishna. But when we chant Hare Krishna without any offense, we rel- ish Krishna, the Reservoir of all pleasure. Now by the Grace of Krishna, you have got a nice place, a nice atmosphere. So I quite approve your present activities. Continue it sincerely, and when the time will be favorable, people may come to you and take advantage of the transcendental facility for chanting Hare Krishna. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. You will be pleased to know here we are performing kirtan in the Expo. They have paid us $300.00. It may be they in- crease the period. Yesterday it was [TEXT UNCLEAR] JULY, 1968 463 68-7-18 Montreal 14th July, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of yourtwo letters dated July 6 and 8, 1968, respectively, along with one letter from Kirtanananda Swami. My first request to you is that as you are getting a job again, in the Ohio State University, you must accept it without hesitation. In the Bhagavad Gita you have read that one should fully utilize one’s talent for the ser- vice of the Lord. Arjuna was a military man and he utilized his talent fully for executing the purpose of Lord Sri Krishna. So, by the Grace of Krishna, you have got some educational talent, and wherever there is opportunity to get some money, you must accept it, but spend the money for Krishna. As you are projecting to develop New Vrindaban, you will re- quire money and I would advise you to purchase land there instead of taking on lease. If you want to take on lease, then it must be on long period, say 99 years; but first hand lease is better, that is from the government. I do not understand what is the position of Mr. Rose there, but I shall advise you not to make any big plans on the land of others. There is a Bengali proverb that if one is a poor man, he can go to some friends’ house and accept food and then come back, but one should never accept residence in other’s house. That is very inconvenient. Of course, for a San- nyasin like us, we can live anywhere and everywhere, rather we shoud not have our own place. But for the New Vrindaban Project, I would advise you to purchase land as much as you can because it ap- pears that the atmosphere and situation is very nice there. Another thing, I shall not advise you to purchase horses for convey- ance. It will be a botheration for you, be- Cause now you have not got sufficient assistance. If you keep horses you have to take care for them and for a little conve- nience of transportation, you have to take so much botheration to keep the horse fit. I am so pleased to learn that you have got a Deity Room and you are performing jointly Kirtan, assisted by a newcomer, Harold Olmstead. He may be called Hrishikesh, there is no objection, but gen- erally a Holy Name after Lord Krishna is offered to a devotee after his initiation. Anyway, you can call him Hrishikesh, and the same name will be continued after his initiation also. In the meantime, let him be trained up in our line of activities to ob- serve the rules and regulations and chant Hare Krishna jointly with you. In your letter of the 8th instant you write to say, “but it would be difficult to spread the Mahamantra to the inhabitants here.” Our principal aim is to preach the importance of chanting the Holy Names of God. And if there is no such opportu- nity then the place will be specifically meant for persons who wantto retire from activities. To retire from activities is not very good idea for the conditioned soul. I have got very good experience, not only in our country but also in your country, that this tendency of retiring from activities pushes one down to the platform of lazi- ness, and gradually to the ideas of the hip- pies. One should always remain active in Krishna’s service, otherwise the strong maya will catch him and engage him in her service. Our constitutional position being rendering service, we cannot stop ac- tivity. So the New Vrindaban may not be turned into a place of retirement, but some sort of activities must go on there. If there is good prospective land, we should produce some grains, flours, and fruits, and keep cows, so that the inmates may have sufficient work and facility for ad- vancing in Krishna Consciousness. In In- dia actually the Vrindaban has now become a place of the unemployed, and beggars. Kirtanananda has already seen 464 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda it; and so there is always a tendency of such degradation if there is no sufficient work for service of Krishna. Another sug- gestion is that if you can attract some retired men to live there peacefully and at the same time, make oneself advanced in Krishna Consciousness, that will be very nice. But I am afraid that retired men from this country cannot give up their old habits, generally, intoxication, keep- ing a dog, smoking, etc., and it will be difficult for them to give up such habits even they are invited to live with us in Vrindaban. Regarding Easy Journey to Other Planets: You can inquire from Mukunda das if he is going to print it or not. If not, then you can do it because you have now some money and spend for its publication. And regarding editorial work, I shall send you some manuscripts very soon. Regarding visa: I am not prohibited like that, that I cannot enter USA, but the permanent visa ws denied only on some technical ground. There is no impediment about my bonafides. But they have raised an objection because I submitted my ap- plication just after a fort-night of my ar- rival, and they say that I entered USA not as a bonafide non-immigrant. But I sub- mitted my application, after consulting the Indian Embassy, as well as the American Embassy in Calcutta, but I see a different decision at the end. It is very difficult to take the words of government servants, straightly. Chanakya Pandit has advised not to trust a polititian and a woman, so practically I consulted all these polititians and they have given a dif- ferent decision. I do not know what is their intention, but for the time being I have not gotten the visa. My present visa for Canada is up to the end of August. Actually it is up to the third of September, but if I like to stay here, I can extend it, it is not difficult. But I am intending to go to London, and it may be in the meantime I may go to Vancouver. I am very much anxious about your health. Is it due to the place that you are having hay fever? It sometimes so hap- pens that moist places causes such distur- bances. Are there many mosquitoes? The best thing I can suggest that you try to keep your bowels cleared, and take more fruits and milk. That will keep you healthy. I hope you will soon feel better, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-19 Montreal 15th July, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter with thanks, dated July 8, 1968, and I must say that the Rathayatra festival was so suc- cessful for your diligent labor only. If you would not have constructed such a nice ra- tha (car) in sucha short time, it would not have been possible to perform the grand festival. By Krishna’s Grace you have got the talent of carpentermanship, and you have fully utilized your energy in the ser- vice of Krishna. You have carved so many Jagganatha Murtis, and the car also, so Krishna must have been very much satis- fied with your service. Srimad Bhaga- vatam says that the highest perfectional stage of everyone’s talent is to satisfy the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Hari, by his craftsmanship, scientific knowl- edge, philosophical research, or similar any other energy. Please continue this attitude of service and success of life is assured for you. I have learned the de- scription of the Rathayatra festival ver- bally from so many persons who came to see me from San Francisco, and I have re- ceived the photo album from Gurudas. But I have not received any newspaper JULY, 1968 465 clippings, which I am very much anxious to see. I am so glad to learn that Miss Saraswati devi is doing very well with her good parents. Please bring her up nicely in Krishna Consciousness and that is the duty of responsible parents. Regarding London-yatra: (like Ratha- yatra—yatra means travel.) I am conem- plating of forming the following party: yourself and your wife, Mukunda and his wife, Goursundar and his wife, Hansa- dutta and his wife, Pradyumna and Upen- dra. Maybe we may have to change later on a little bit, but this is my contempla- tion. Now, I do not know how to make this program fruitful. Here I have gotten some encouragement by recent Kirtan perfor- mances in the Expo. For two days they have paid us $300.00, and maybe they will be required to perform Kirtan for a few days more. Similarly I have got one encouraging letter from San Francisco written by Tamal Krishna, that there is good collection in the Kirtan perfor- mances led by Mukunda. I have asked Hansadutta to open correspondence with you to make plans how to go to London. I understand that he has got already 15 to 16 hundred dollars inthis account. The thing is that 12 to 15 heads will have to go there. First of all we have to accommodate our- selves in a nice place. And I am so glad you have already written to Anapurna’s father, and as soon as some plan is fixed up, we start immediately. It may be that we may not wait even up to the end of Au- gust. My special instruction to you all is that you practice Samkirtan very rhythmi- cally and in a responsive way. That means one should chant first, and others should follow him. That is a very nice system. I understand from Gurudas that you had some meeting amongst yourselves to chalk out the plan and I shall be glad to know what plan you have made, as he has mentioned this meeting in his letter, which I am replying herewith. Please convey my blessings to your good wife Malati, and to your new daugh- ter, Miss Saraswati devi. And I hope you are all doing well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-20 Montreal 16th July, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter (undated), and I am so glad to see the photo album sent by you. But I have not received any newspaper clippings regarding the procession— neither I have received the 2 slides which you mentioned in your letter under reply. (you mentioned 2 slides, one of Lord Jag- ganatha and one of the car) You write to say that there was one article in the San Francisco Examiner on July 1, 1968, but I have received none till now. Please try to send one copy as soon as possible. you will know about my plan about London- yatra from the letter which I am address- ing today to Shyamsundar. I am so much satisfied with your successful perfor- mance of Rathayatra festival and I am awaiting to see similar festivals in all our other centers, including one in the pro- spective London center. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Yamuna devi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated July 9, 1968, giving a vivid description of the Rathayatra festival. I understand that Mu- kunda and Janaki are now living with you, but I have not received any letter from them. Anyway, I understand that Mu- kunda is leading now a nice Kirtan party 466 Letters from Srila Prabhupada in the streets, and there is good response. The time is fast approaching when we will have to perform such public Kirtan in all the important cities of the world. Here also, in the Expo, they have performed Kirtan for two days, and it is wonderfully successful. Your appreciation of the Rathayatra festival and realizing the beauty of Kirtan and Jagganatha as well as the magnanim- ity of Lord Chaitanya in His sublime teachings, are some of the wonderful things that I mark in your progressively advancement in Krishna Consciousness. Please try to continue this attitude and you will be more and more happy in your life, and at the end, get entrance into the association of Krishna. Chant Hare Krishna, both husband and wife, regu- larly, and worship Lord Krishna’s Sri Murti, as you are doing, and try to ele- vate others in Krishna Consciousness, which has nothing to do with academic education; I therefore wish that instead of wasting your time for 2 or 3 years for taking a degree, you may increase your scope of activities for recruiting such boys and training them in Krishna Con- sciousness. But if your state laws do not allow it to hold any class without such de- gree then you must get such degree. On the whole you have got a very nice en- gagement for training children in Krishna Consciousness. And I think you are very fit for it. I am sure if you en- deavor in this line of service, Krishna will be very much pleased and will shower His blessing more and more. You are very nice girl and I have got full faith in you and I wish that you can develope this line of service to the society. of Prasad; I want to write him one letter. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-21 Montreal 16th July, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Tamal Krishna, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated July 12, 1968 with the notes of your successful performances of city Kirtan movement and it is a very good plan. I think we should not be worried about our expendi- ture, Krishna has given us good opportu- nity of service, and if we simply execute the service, by such performances of Kir- tan and practice ourselves the rules and regulations rigidly and with faith in Krishna and service to the orders of the bonafide Spiritual Master, then there will be no scarcity of our necessities of life, and very pleasantly we will be able to exe- cute our Krishna conscious activities without any anxiety for financial difficul- ties. Actually everything belongs to Krishna, and if He likes, He can immedi- ately give us the whole U.S.A., but He is very cautious because we are prone to the allurement of maya, so He does not give us all of a sudden all the facilities, lest we may fall prey to the illusory presentations of maya. Just like a physician does not give delicacies to a suffering patient, but as he recovers from the disease, the physi- cian allows him to accept palatable dishes. So we have to wait for the cure of our material diseases, and proportion- ately as we become recovered from the disease, the supplies of pleasant things will automatically come. But we must al- ways know that there is nothing more pleasant than Hare Krishna. When we will be able to relish the transcental plea- sure, in chanting Hare Krishna, that will be the sign of our recovery from material diseases. Please continue the method in JULY, 1968 467 cooperation, very faithfully and dili- gently, and Krishna will help you more and more. Hope you all are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 17th July, 1968 68-7-22 New York My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter and check duly. I have already sent necessary instructions through Hansaduta. You are all my limbs of my body. Unless you cooperate, my life will be useless. The senses and life are corelative. Without life the senses cannot act and without sense, life is inactive. I have advised Hansadutta to cooperate fully with you. The 50% arrangement is agreed. Regarding Kallman affairs: please try to get out of it, even at a loss. And for fu- ture, take lessons out of it. For us desiring to go back to Krishna, persons engaged in sense gratification business is more dan- gerous than poison. But rest assured Krishna will save you from this entangle- ment. Have you sent the cable to Dwarkin? We want Mridangas very urgently be- cause very soon we shall be going to Lon- don. Six devotees from the West coast and six devotees from the East coast, 12 for Kirtan besides my humbleself, and one or two Brahmacharies. Henceforward our plan should be to push Samkirtan and sell our publications. For books, Brahm ananda, for magazine, Rayrama, for Samkirtan, Hansadutta and Mukunda, and for suggestion, my humble self. Please let us concentrate this integration and I am sure our movement will be suc- cessful. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-23 Montreal 17th July, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter dated July 14, 1968, with enclosure. It is very nice. I am al- ready informed about your Kirtan activi- ties in San Francisco and its’ success. I think Krishna is dictating us to adopt this method for propagating the Samkirtan movement all over the different cities, towns and villages on the surface of the globe, because that was the prediction of Lord Chaitanya. The exact words in Bengali poetry are as follows: ‘‘Prithi vite acche yata nagaradi gram. Sarvatra pra- char haive more nama.” I have already asked Hansadutta to open correspondence with you. Please do expedite the arrangement for London Yatra by mutual correspondence. Here in Montreal there is postal strike. So I am posting this letter in Buffalo where one boy is going tomorrow morning. I think unless there is very important business you can suspend correspondence to Mon- treal address. My visa is up to 3rd of Sep- tember 1968, and if by that time my London yatra is not completed, then I will have to extend the visa period. I think you should start for London as early as possi- ble. The plan already made by you is agreed by me. So you can go ahead with the plan. Our only plan should be hence- forward to spread the Samkirtan activities and sell our publications. Publication of 468 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Back To Godhead is entrusted to Ray- rama, and for publication of books, Brahmananda is entrusted. For business Gargamuni is entrusted. So let us com- binedly execute the Krishna Conscious- ness movement in full swing. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-24 Montreal 25th July, 1968 Delhi My Dear Harivilas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated July 8, 1968, and regarding your previous letter or any other letters, it is my habit to reply each and every letter. You have com- plained that in Canada your letters are missing. This is not a fact. Of course, since the last four days there is a postal strike, nation wide in Canada, and there may be some irregularities now. But I have received all your letters in the past regularly, and I replied them also, without delay. The letters are missing somewhere in your return address, because you are moving very swiftly, from one place to an- other. And I think if you want to do some real service to Krishna, and to the society, you should now fix up your mind to follow my instructions and do some tangible work. Unless you fix up your mind to serve your Spiritual Master, Who is direct representative of Krishna, it is not possi- ble to approach Krishna. Krishna is ap- proached through the transparent via media, of Spiritual Master. Anyway, the letter which you sent me 3 weeks prior was duly received by me and I have duly replied them point to point, and if you have not received that letter, I am enclos- ing a true copy of the reply which will clear all the points raised by you. Regard- ing the Murtis, the letter will explain. In your letter under reply, I find that you are now anxious to return to the USA. I do not think that you will be more ser- viceable in the USA than in India; I think if you try to remain in India in fixed up mind, you can do greater service to Krishna. The first thing is that many of my disciples are always ready to go to India, but I do not encourage them to go there at the present moment because practically we have no organized branch there. Achyutananda has formally opened a branch in Delhi, c/o Radha Press, but I do not think it is acting very nicely. Because you are not combined. If you combine to- gether there, following my instructions, you can develop a branch in India any- where very nicely. How to do it, that I shall give you instructions. You have sim- ply to carry out my instructions in that re- spect. But at the present moment you are not prepared to follow my instructions. You are simply visiting different places, for sight seeing recreation. This sort of service is not accepted by Krishna. You are thinking of coming back to USA be- cause your sight seeing business is now finished. But now you should think what service you have rendered to Krishna by going to India. Sometimes back, when you were in Nabadwip, I asked you to send some mridangas, but you declined to execute the order. I asked you also to de- velop one ashram at Mayapur, that also you declined. Similarly, Achyutananda was bent on opening a center at Kanpur, and the result is that instead of opening a center, there, he has lost two typewriters, taken away by force by some rogue there. So, so long whatever you have done, both you and Achyutananda, let us forget those things. Now if you decide to work rigidly on my instructions in India, then I can give you necessary instructions. Oth- erwise, you can do whatever you like. JULY, 1968 469 Regarding your coming back, it is not very good that you are begging money from Indians to come back. I understand that you asked for help from Mr. Poddar, Rs. 5000 as loan for your coming back to the USA. Such kind of begging does not behove for the American students. It is against the reputation of American wealth, as well as our society. Even though you get some money by such beg- ging, the government will not allowyouto return to USA with Indian money. You have to take money from your country for coming back, or you have to take help from your ambassador in India for com- ing back. The Indian government cannot pay anything from the Indian exchange to outside countries. So do not try to make collection for coming back to the USA. For your coming back, either your family members or your government or some- body here must send you money or a ticket for coming back. Last time when I was coming back the same difficulty arose, and I had to pay my ticket fare as well as Kirtanananda’s ticket fare, amounting to Rs. 11,000, from my book-fund, which I dispatched to USA. I dispatched 13,000 Rs. worth books from India, out of which I have paid that 11,000 Rs. So this is the exchange condition. I think therefore, that when you have gone to India, for the time being you should forget your mother country, USA. A Krishna Conscious per- son is supposed to be without any designa- tion. So why should you think yourself as acitizen of USA? You should always think yourself as servant of Krishna. And as servants of Krishna, you combine to- gether and develop a nicer International Society in India. There are so many works to be done there. The Radha Press was en- trusted for printing of my books, and he was paid 2000 Rs. in advance for printing of the books, but they have informed Achyutananda that they are unable to print the books. Now neither they are returning the money, nor printing the books, and I do not know what is the meaning. Please try to settle up this matter. Ask Hitsharan Sharma to return back the money and de- posit in my bank so that I can pay the money to some other press and begin the printing of books immediately. I am very sorry that he has neither printed my books nor is giving me the chance to get it printed in another press. So all of you 3 immediately settle up this thing and let me know the result. I have already written to Achyutananda about this 3 times, but no effect is there till now. In the concluding part of your letter, you write to say, “All of the westerners here in Hrishikesh show keen interest in Krishna Consciousness and some even at- tended large Kirtans at Gita Bhawan with us.” From this one line you should know and understand how much potency is there for preaching our philosophy of Krishna Consciousness to the western people. The western boys and girls, actu- ally they are frustrated in their material opulence. They are searching after some- thing spiritual. That is a fact. And you personally already know better than I can explain. So if you can consolidate all these western youngsters in search after some spiritual enlightenment, this will be a great service to your country, to your community, and to the world at large in the transcendental loving service of Krishna. Try to organize this movement in India. Attract the western youngsters to this Krishna Consciousness; have at least 3 centers, one in Hrishikesh, one in Vrin- daban, one in Bombay. I am stressing on Bombay center for the fact that in Bom- bay, you will find a better atmosphere of English speaking people. In Bombay, 99% both men and women of all denomi- nations, they speak English. So there you will have better chance for mixing with the Indian people. And in Hrishikesh, the westerners are attracted for finding out 470 Letters from Srila Prabhupada some recluse, for practicing so-called yoga. So if you can attract all the western- ers in India in that way, it will be a great service, and I am repeatedly requesting you to take up this matter seriously and combine together. Yes, we are planning to go to London as a Samkirtan party of 12 heads, by the month of September. And Mukunda in San Francisco and Hansadutta in New York, they are combinedly planning this scheme. But I think you have got better re- sponsibility in India than to come here and join them. As they are doing the Samkir- tan program here nicely, similarly, you can also combinedly do the same work in India to attract the westerners who go there for some spiritual enlightenment. I think you will understand me right and try to do your best to give a shape to this idea. Thanking you once more, and hoping you are keeping in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-25 Montreal 29th July, 1968 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Krishna will save you do not worry. Let us forget about our past incidences with Hayagriva and Kirtananda. Treat Kirtananda as bonafide and address him as Kirtananda Maharaj. He should be first of fered obei- sances and he will return the respect to his Godbrothers. I am expecting you here as Vamandas has informed me. The strike is still going on. If you do not come then talk with me by phone. Please be brotherly with Hayagriva and Kirtananda. They have come back with sincerity. Hope you are all well. I am fit. ACB 68-7-26 Montreal 29th July, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your two letters dated 21 and 23 of July, and I am very glad to learn that some new devotees, boys and girls, are coming to the temple, and I re- quest you to take care of them carefully. What about that boy, Patel? I do not hear about him. Regarding London-yatra: Fifteen means including you and your wife. The calcu- lation is 3 pairs from San Francisco, and 2 pairs from here. These 5 pairs is 10 heads. Myself is 1, so itis 11. And 2 or 3, utmost 4, Brahmacharies. So your name was never excluded; if you do not find your name mentioned, it is a mistake. So there is no reason for you to feel dis- turbed. I am very happy that you are put- ting the London plans into “full gear” now, and please do it, and as nicely as pos- sible. I very much appreciated your nice pic- tures and as well, the news clipping. It is all very much encouraging to me. Thope both you and your good wife are well, and all is going nicely there. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-7-27 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am very glad to receive your letter suggesting a branch in Vancouver, and it is very en- couraging. Please negotiate with your friends as soon as this postal strike is over, and if there is a suitable place to open a center, I am agreed to this proposal. In the meantime, Hansadutta is coming and I JULY, 1968 471 shall consult with him also, and if possi- ble we will go to Vancouver. Regarding Gargamuni’s proposal: I am writing him separately and you will know the result from him. If Gargamuni’s business is go- ing in San Francisco nicely, he should not for the time being divert his attention. There are two friends also known to me, in Vancouver, and I have written them let- ters but I have not received any reply from them, probably due to the postal strike. Anyway, I am anxious to open a branch in Vancouver, and as soon as there is favor- able circumstances, either through you or through any other friend, it will be a great pleasure for me to open a branch there. I hope all is well in San Francisco, and you are feeling in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter via New York, dated July 23, 1968. The bicycle accident may be ignored, becaused even if there is a case against you, you can plead that the man was going, and all of a sudden he turned imbalance, and dashed with my car. So it was his fault, he could not keep balance with the cycle. And as soon as I saw him dashed, I stopped immediately and what could I do more? In India such accidents is never taken seriously by the police, because in busy streets, cycling is prohibited. So your decision not to pay him any money is right. Besides that, if he was to institute a case against you, he should have at once reported the matter to the policy nearby. Regarding your business: This ebb tide and flow tide of business we should al- ways expect. But so far I know that you do more business by traveling. Under the cir- cumstances, the showroom you are keep- ing is extra expense. I do not know who looks after your store in your absence. So you can take action according to the ne- cessity of business, because we must use our full intelligence in any matter. Any- way, if you find it too much inconvenient to stay in San Francisco, you can come to Vancouver or London. I hope you are feeling well, and simi- larly all your God-brothers and sisters there. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami IMPORTANT: Note to Upendra: Please locate and send to New York, the following medicines: Triphala- (brownish powder, appears like earth, and with faint sweet odor.) Baraillaich- (ground up nuts, very pungent odor—you ground up such nuts in S.F., after they were sent from Achyutananda in India.)* ACB *you can send them here (Montreal) when the strike is over ACB 68-7-28 Montreal 29th July, 1968 My Dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of July 17, and of July 25, 1968, and have noted the contents carefully. Yes, by keeping en- gaged in Krishna Consciousness activities we can keep out of Maya’s clutches, and there are so many nice engagements, as you have stated. By your sincerity and ser- vice attitude you are making good prog- ress; by your letter it is shown. Regarding your question about the pic- ture of Lord Chaitanya with six arms: This form was shown to Ramananda Roy, and Sarvabhouma Bhattacharya. This is called Sadabhuj Murti. This Sadabhuj Murti is worshipped also by the devotees of Lord Chaitanya, and especially the 472 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Murti is situated in the temple of Jag- ganath Puri. Sometimes when you may go to India and visit the temple of Jagganath, you will find this Murti. Affection for God-brothers is nice, it is a good sign. Affection for God-brothers as well as for all other living entities, even they are not God-brothers, these signs are seen in the advanced devotees. There are three kinds of devotees: The lower grade devotees, they have high regard for the Deity in the temple, but not very much regard for devotees or people in general. The second grade devotee takes compas- sion with innocent non-devotees. In that stage, he has got 4 kinds of vision: one is that he always keeps Krishna as the most Lovable Object, second is that he makes intimate friendship with his devotee God- brothers or any other devotees, third is that he takes compassion with innocent non-devotees, and tries to convince them about the importance of Krishna Con- sciousness, and fourth is that he does not take any serious interest for the atheist class of men. The first grade devotee, of course, sees everyone in relationship with Krishna and as such, he makes no distinc- tion between a devotee or non-devotee. His vision is high grade, because he sees that everyone is engaged in Krishna’s ser- vice directly or indirectly. This position of high-grade devotee should never be imi- tated. It was possible only in Lord Chaitanya or Lord Nityananda, or Hari- das Thakur. Thakur Haridas was so pow- erful that he could convert even a harlot. But we should not try to imitate Haridas Thakur or Lord Chaitanya. Our position is in the second grade platform. We should not be satisfied remaining in the third grade platform. But we should try to elevate ourselves in the second grade plat- form. So far the first grade platform is concerned, it is not attained by our en- deavor, but it is possible when we have full Grace of Krishna. It completely depends on the causeless Mercy of Krishna. Subhadra is yoga maya. The spiritual energy is called yoga maya. And she has 16 different expansions. Out of these 16 expansions, Subhadra is one. The maha- maya of the material energy is also expan- sion of the energy of yogamaya; and both yogamaya and mahamaya are equally im- portant to Krishna as much as any govern- ment department is equally important for functioning of the government. The police department may be horrible for the crimi- nals, but to the government it is a depart- ment as good as university department. Similarly, mahamaya is horrible to the conditioned soul, but to the liberated soul, there is no fear of mahamaya, because he is protected by yoga maya. It is stated in the Bhagavad Gita when Krishna said the following: “I am not visible to everyone on account of being curtained by yoga maya.” So when a conditioned soul sur- renders unto Krishna, the yogamaya winds up the curtain and Krishna is visi- ble to the devotee. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami AUGUST 68-8-1 Montreal 3rd August, 1968 His Holiness The Pope, Paul VI Vicar of Jesus Christ State of Vatican City Rome, Italy Your Holiness: Please accept my respectful humble obeisances at Your lotus feet. I beg to in- troduce myself as an Indian monk, fol- lowing the Vedic principles of religious life, and at the present, I am in the re- nounced order of Sannyas (aged 72 years) and preaching God consciousness all over the world. I came to America in 1965, and since then I have many followers belong- ing to both Christian and Jewish faiths. And I have established 8 centers of Krishna consciousness temples in the USA and Canada. In the month of Sep- tember, 1968, I am scheduled to go to London on this mission, and maybe I can visit other cities of European countries. My mission is in the line of Lord Chaitanya, Who is Personified Love of Godhead, and Who advented Himself 482 years ago in India, and preached God con- sciousness all over the country. His mis- sion is to revive God consciousness all over the world, on the basis of Srimad Bhagavatam (Science of God). The prin- ciple of Srimad Bhagavatam is that any re- ligious faith which helps a man to develop Love of God, without any motive, and without being hampered by any material condition, is transcendental religion. And the best process or the easiest process, in this age especially, is to chant the Holy Name of God. From this definition of reli- gion as we find in the Srimad Bhagava- tam, the criterion test of religion is how it helps people to develop his dormant Love of God, which is not artificially invoked, but it is aroused from within by bona fide association of devotees and hearing about God. The human form of life is specially meant for this purpose, namely, to invoke the dormant Love of God, because better development of consciousness is found in the human body. Animal propensities for sense gratification equally found both in man and animals. But the special signifi- cance of human life is to achieve Love of God as the prime perfection of life. Un- fortunately, at the present moment people are more concerned about the principle of sense gratification, or the animal part of human life, and they are gradually declin- ing in God consciousness. This tendency is very much deteriorating, and because Your Holiness is the Head of a great reli- gious sect, I think we should meet to- gether and chalk out a program for cooperation. The human society cannot anymore be allowed to continue a Godless civilization at the risk of decreasing truthfulness, hygienic principles, forgiveness, and mercifulness. Because on account of pre- dominance of these principles at the present moment, duration of life, strength, and memory of the human being is decreasing. The human society is grad- ually degrading in the matter of religi- osity, and justice; and “might is right” is gradually taking the place of morality and justice. There is practically no more family life, and the union of man and 474 Letters from Srila Prabhupada woman is gradually degrading to the stan- dard of sexuality. I understand it from reli- able sources that people are trying to get Your Holiness’ sanction for contraceptive method, which is certainly against any re- ligion of the world. In the Hindu religion, such contraceptive method or abortion is considered equivalent to murder. Therefore, in the matter of sex, the hu- man society is gradually degrading even less decent than the animals. As a result of unrestricted sense gratification, even in ordinary dealing, a man cannot trust an- other man, because the cheating propen- sity of a man has increased beyond imagination. Attraction of young boys for young girls is no more as a matter of love, but such attraction is only on the basis of sexual potency. As soon as there is slack- ening of sex life, there is immediately the divorce petition. In India, which was one day the land of religion and Brahminical culture, things have deteriorated to such an extent that a man ina higher caste is recognized simply by putting a piece of thread on the body as a sign of sanctity. The so-called Swamis are cheating the public because the public also want to be cheated by cheap method of self-realization. They are practicing so- called yoga performances for the matter of reducing fat, and keeping the body fit for sense gratification. If somebody has no sufficient money, it is very hard for him to get justice from the court. And if anyone can simply bluff by so-called ad- vancement of knowledge, he is offered the doctorate degree. If a man is poor, he is at once accepted as non-civilized. If a man is falsely proud, he is accepted as civilized. By frustration, people are gradually be- coming communists and hippies, and the guardians of the society must now take up the situation very seriously, without fur- ther delay. The Krishna Consciousness move- ment is meant for overhauling the whole situation. We are creating men of charac- ter, and we are training our disciples to be- come Lovers of God, or Krishna. From the very beginning, they are trained to re- frain from the following four principles of degradation: 1) Sex life outside of mar- riage, 2) Meat eating, or eating of any ani- mal food, 3) All forms of intoxication, 4) Gambling and idle sports. The teach- ings are based on authorized movement of Lord Chaitanya, on the principles of Bha- gavad Gita, as the beginning, and Srimad Bhagavatam as the graduation. I do not wish to prolong the body of this letter further, but if you think that a meeting with You will be beneficial for the human society at large, I shall be very much pleased if Your Holiness will grant me an interview. Thanking you in antici- pation for an early reply. Yours in the service of the Lord, ACB 68-8-2 Montreal 7th August, 1968 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. Krsna will save you do not worry. Let us forget about our past incidents with Hayagriva and Kirtanananda. Treat Kirtanananda as bona fide and address him as Kir- tanananda Maharaja. He should be first offered obeisances and he will return the respect to his Godbrothers. I am expec- ting you here as Vamandeva has informed me. The strike is still going on. If you do not come then talk with me by phone. Please be brotherly with Hayagriva and Kirtanananda. They have come back with sincerity. Hope you are all well. I am fit. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami AUGUST, 1968 475 Montreal 7th August, 1968 68-8-3 My Dear Nathan Baruch, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter, without date. (In future, while corresponding, please try to put the date of writing.) I received your letter a couple of days ago, but could not reply you due to the mail strike. It is expected that the mail strike will end by tomorrow, as it is announced about their settlement, but still I am not certain. Iam therefore replying your letter by posting at Boston. Hope you will receive it duly. Your letter is very encouraging, and I think in future your enthusiasm and en- ergy can very suitably be engaged in the transcendental loving service of Krishna. Everyone of us has got a certain amount of good energy derived from Krishna, and when that energy is employed under the expert direction of Spiritual Master, one’s life becomes successful. That is the secret of Krishna Consciousness. The Spiritual Master must be bona fide representative of Krishna, by disciplic succession, re- ceiving orders from the superior, and the disciple must agree to abide by the orders of the Spiritual Master. This is the simple method of spiritual advancement; if you remember this principle it will be very nice. If you can carve Radha Krishna Murti very nicely, it will be a great service to the society. There is a quality of wood, which is very hard and strong and black and heavy; in India we call it iron wood. I think it is called ebony here. If you can carve Krishna from this ebony wood, and Radharani from another wood, one which is very hard, and of golden color, and from this same golden wood, Lord Chaitanya (all of Them 24” in height, and Radharani a little less) then you can begin this work immediately. I’m so glad to learn that you are eager to serve Krishna in every way possible. This mentality is very rare, and I guess that you must have been engaged in Krishna’s service in your previous life. To begin eager to serve Krishna is the greatest achievement after many many duration of pious life. So I en- trust you to begin this work immediately. And concentrate your energy making this art perfection. So far Radha Krishna Mur- tis are concerned, you have many pictures in San Francisco, and you can do accord- ingly, and so far Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Murti is concerned, I am giving you a rough diagram herewith. (Murari has got one diagram drawn by Goursundar under my supervision which you can also see.) So far Samkirtan is concerned, that should be continued in all circumstances. Chanting of Hare Krishna, Samkirtan is our life and soul. Side by side, if possible, then you can attempt for the ISKCON res- taurant and Krishna Prasadam distribu- tion, but this I think is secondary. I can understand from your letter that you have varied energies, and you want to employ all of them into the service of Krishna. Please try to do as above mentioned, and it will be a great pleasure for me and a de- light for all others. Hope you are well and I shall be glad to hear from you by return of post. Please convey my blessings to all the disciples and inform Krishna das that I have re- ceived one letter from his good mother, and I shall reply it within a day or two, and I am very much obliged to Krishna das’s mother for her kind letter to me, and hope she is well and happy. Your ever will-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-4 Montreal 8th August, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. You will be pleased to learn that I have got now im- migration permission and identification 476 Letters from Srila Prabhupada card in Canada. So there will be no diffi- culty to go to USA anytime. I have not heard anything from Gargamuni, whether he is already gone to Vancouver. By the end of this month we will have to vacate this apartment, and I do not know whether I am going to London or Vancouver. Uddhava has taken the German book, and I do not know whether you wanted it back. What about the news of the mri- dangas from Dwarkin? I think from to- morrow the postal work will begin, and now you can reply by post all the news of New York. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-5 Montreal 10th August, 1968 San Francisco My Dear Wendy Weiser, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter of August 4, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Yes, this is a very nice proposal. It is very good that you would like to go to Boston to the Brahmacharini ashram under Ja- durany’s care. Please go there as soonas it is convenient for you, and Jadurany will be very pleased to receive you there, along with the other Brahmacharinis. And when you are in Boston, it is not very far from Montreal, so you can come here to visit. And when you come here, we shall talk together, and I shall initiate you as my disciple if you so desire. And I shall be very pleased to meet with you and also Saradia, if she also comes here. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-6 Montreal 12th August, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings, and offer the same to Kirtanananda Swami. I hope you are both well and your program for constructing New Vrindaban is going nicely. I am always very much anxious to hear how you are progressing in this con- nection and please therefore keep me in- formed. Just on Saturday, several devotees have arrived from San Francisco: Mukunda, Janaki, Gurudas, Yamuna, Shyamsundar, Malati (and their little child, Srimati Saraswati devi), and Saradia, all of them have come here for two weeks to practice together as our Samkirtan party, then they will all go to London and begin prepara- tions for our center there. They are all ready for opening up a center there, so we are going to try to make it as successful a venture as Krishna desires. While they are here, we are having rehearsal of Kirtan daily, and I want also that they shall prac- tice rehearsal of your play, about Lord Chaitanya’s activities. So if you can send a copy of your drama as soon as possible, they will begin rehearsing how to do it. Please send it immediately if possible, and I shall keep you informed how they are progressing in their presentation of it. Hoping you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-7 Montreal 14th August, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings, and offer the same to Gargamuni. I am in just re- ceipt of your letter dated August 12, 1968, and have noted the contents carefully. In the meantime, I also received a letter from AUGUST, 1968 477 Mr. Renovich, which I have also replied and as he is very much eager to receive me there, he writes to say that I can reside with him so long there is no place of our own. As such, I have replied his letter that I am prepared to start next week by the 21st of August 1968, so you can let me know by phone (our number of the temple is 849-4319) whether I shall start or whether you are going to arrange for the passage money. So everything should be informed immediately after consultation with Mr. Renovich, and then I shall pre- pare myself also to go to Vancouver. When I reach there, other things will be discussed and done it properly. Kirtan means both lecturing and chanting with music. The chanting with music is specially attractive for the mass of people, but talking from philosophical point of view on Krishna Consciousness is also chanting. The whole Srimad Bha- gavatam is full of philosophical discus- sions and we are prepared to present our Krishna Consciousness movement both ways, whichever is suitable in special cir- cumstances. If Mr. Renovich is interested only in philosophical discussions, we are prepared for that. But at the same time we are concerned mostly with the mass of people, there fore Hare Krishna kirtan is our life and soul. So there is no problem if Mr. Renovich is especially interested in scholarly philosophical discussions. As he has invited me to live with him, since immediately we have no apartment of our own, you must see personally whether my living with Mr. Renovich will be suitable. Because you know that wher- ever I live, I live separately and my cook- ing and everything is done by my devotees. And under the circumstances, if the apartment of Mr. Renovich is too crowded, for Goursundar and his wife and myself all, * still you will have to do every- thing for me. That is, I cannot eat with Mr. Renovich, my food must be prepared separately, etc. So whether such facilities are available at Mr. Renovich’s apart- ment, you must see personally all these points, and then let me know, whether or not I shall start. Hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *If so desired Goursundar and his wife may wait till we have our own apartment and I can go alone for the time being. So let us know what to do. 68-8-8 Montreal 17th August, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your note dated August 13, 1968, with the copy of lease agreement and I have gone through it carefully. When you were here I suggested to purchase the land out-right. But I think it has not been possible. But on the face of the lease, it appears as good as sale document. But the clause, “Excepting and reserv- ing however, all of the coal within and un- derlying said property, and subject to the mining rights and privileges set forth in the deed conveying said coal, made by Jo- seph E. McCombs, et al., dated March 30, 1903, recorded in said Clerk’s office in Deed Book 98, at page 185,” has caused my headache. I do not know what is written there in the Clerk’s office in Deed Book 98, but on common sense, it appears that the area is coal mine or oilmine. Under the circumstances, if in future coal industry is developed and if it is required, the government may at once ask us to vacate and no law can stop it. Even the government does not acquire our land, if in our vicinity some such industry (coal or oil industry) is started, the whole 478 Letters from Srila Prabhupdada idea of Vrindaban will fade away. Vrinda- ban conception is a transcendental vil- lage, without any botheration of the modern industrial atmosphere. My idea of developing New Vrindaban is to create an atmosphere of spiritual life where peo- ple in bonafide order of social division, namely, Brahmacharies, Grihastras, Vanaprastha, Sannyasins, or specifically Brahmacharies and Sannyasins, and Vanaprasthas, will live there indepen- dently, completely depending on agricul- tural produce and milk from the cows. The life should be simplified without be- ing hampered by laboring day and night for economic development, without any spiritual understanding. The New Vrin- daban ida is that persons who live there will accept the bare necessities of life to maintain the body and soul together and the major part of time should be engaged in development of Krishna Conscious- ness. The whole Vedic principle is to de- velop Krishna Consciousness, without creating much botheration for the pro- gram of sense gratification. Industrial de- velopment (or mining industry) in the neighboring places will mar the whole idea. Now you have to consider, yourself, looking forward to the future, of the land, and then decide, what to do. I do not like to have New Vrindaban with industrial or mining areas. I have got experience of them in India, that the mining areas are simply next to dungeon. The workers in the mines are considered to be residing in the hell. And we can never expect any good behavior from such workers. So we must think of the atmosphere around Vrindaban. In India also our present gov- ernment, they are trying to develop indus- tries in the vast tracts of land around Vrindaban, and creating a hellish atmo- sphere. So I shall request you to be as- sured of the future of the land, and then do the needful. The summary is that the face of the lease agreement appears to be all right, but I am thinking of a spiritual de- velopment. I hope you have received my previous letter and I am expecting your re- ply as soon as possible. Last night we celebrated here Jana- mastami festival very gorgeously, and many Indians in large number attended and they contributed also very liberally. One Madrasi gentleman demonstrated a Krishna dance by his two young daugh- ters, and it was nice. At the present mo- ment, many devotees from San Francisco, New York (specifically your intimate friend Woomapati, is present here) have come here. Today they will observe Vyas Puja ceremony (my Birthday Anniver- sary), so from this day, I will be stepping on the 73rd year. I hope the remaining days of my life may be utilized to serve you all Western devotees of Krishna. Please pray to Krishna that he may give me the necessary strength to discharge the duty entrusted by my Spiritual Master. Convey my blessings to Kirtanananda, and I hope you are all doing well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-9 Montreal 17th August, 1968 My Dear Jayananda Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letterdated August 12, 1968 and I have noted the contents. I am as much anxious to go to San Francisco as you are always anxious get me to San Francisco, and receive me there. But im- mediately I never said to Pradyumna that I can go to San Francisco, so immediately do not arrange for renting any apartment, because I am contemplating on going to Vancouver. It is not yet settled, but there is chance of my going there and I wish to go to San Francisco from there. Yes I have in- quired from Govinda dasi that she and her AUGUST, 1968 479 husband can utilize the half ticket facility, so when I settle to go, certainly I shall ask you to send me the necessary money and I am so pleased that you are always ready to send us the required money and return back to San Francisco. In the meantime, please go on as usual, and I am so pleased to learn that the Patels are taking great in- terest in our temple affairs. Please convey by blessings to all the boys and girls there. Last night we had very nice perfor- mance of Janamastami ceremony and all the San Francisco devotees and some of the New York devotees including Ud- dhava are all now present here. The Indian public here also took great interest in this program this year. And today they are per- forming both the Vyas Puja and Nandot- sav ceremony. Regarding Murli Manohar Murti, I understand that the Patels are ready to present silver Murti, but we cannot wor- ship Murli Manohar alone, without being accompanied by His most favorite consort Radharani. You know that we worship Radha’s Krishna. We should always un- derstand that Krishna is sold to the loving service of Radha, therefore Krishna can- not be alone. And the Goudiya Vaishnavas they want to see Krishna as Radha’s prop- erty. Therefore, if Mr. Patel can present a Pair of Radha Krishna Murti, not less than 18” in height, never mind even They are made of yellow brass metal, that will be very nice. And if They are made of silver, that is still more nice. And it will be my great pleasure to install the Murtis in the temple as soon as They are ready. If it is possible to rent a bigger place for our tem- ple, even without possessing the same as our property, I think that will be a great facility. I understand that new men are now coming in the temple. You may con- sult with the Patels about this and do the needful. Thank youall very much for your doing nicely in San Francisco. Yesterday, Mukunda and Gurudas were telling me that the man known as Asoka Fakir, now living in San Francisco, is advertising himself that the members of our temple are all his disciples. This man has written me letter also, from which I can understand that he is a hodge-potch man. He is not a pure devotee of Krishna, neither his behavior is quite up to the stan- dard. Therefore you should warn all our devotees not to mix with this man very in- timately. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-10 Montreal 19th August, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I was duly in receipt of yourletterdated 13th August, 1968, and noted the contents carefully. The London party led by Mukunda and Shyamsundar are going today to New York, and from there they will start for London. Please offer them good wishes and a nice send-off so that they can safely reach there and make an attempt for start- ing a nice temple there. So far Shivanan- da’s affair is concerned, I have asked Mukunda to write to him and he will do the needful, or you can talk with him. And regarding the meeting for future constitu- tional form of our society, actually it is now needed. So immediately I may not be able to go and meet and they are also in hurry for going to London, but because they will stay for a few days in New York, you can hold a preliminary meeting be- tween yourself, Rayarama, Shyamsundar, Mukunda, and if possible, call Rupanuga, Satsvarupa, Kirtanananda Maharaj, be- cause they are nearer. Your suggestion for a committee and the names you have 480 Letters from Srila Prabhupada suggested, just like Jayananda, Subal, Gargamuni, yourself, Rupanuga, Sats- varupa, Kirtanananda, Dayananda, is very nice. In this also, I think Mukunda’s name should be also added. Anyway, you can hold a preliminary meeting and make a draft. Then we shall ratify it in our next meeting when I may be also able to par- ticipate and do it finally. Your prayer to Nrisinghadev is acting, because I am improving. When I came to USA in December, I feel I am much im- proved than the position in which I reached USA. And possibly I can improve more and more, and if Krishna desires, I may be able to work with renewed vigor, although I have stepped on the state of 73 years of my life. The other day there was nice Janmas- tami festival, and many Indians partici- pated in the ceremony and they had very good collection. The meeting was very successful. The next day also they held Nandotsav and Vyas Puja ceremony. That was also very nice. Last night, on Sunday, there was marriage ceremony of Satya- bhama and Paramananda. Their parents also came, and it was very nice ceremony. By the by, I beg to inform you that I have applied for immigrant visa for USA also, and in that connection, I have sub- mitted one letter of appointment signed by Purushottam and by you with my permis- sion here. Similarly, you can send me a letter reading as follows: The letter should be addressed to the Consulate General of the United States of America, 800 Place Victoria, Montreal 3, Quebec, Canada, and the reading matter should be as fol- lows: “‘Sir, I the undersigned president of the Inter. Soc. for KC beg to state that Swami AC Bhaktivedanta is the appointed Acharya (chief minister of religion) of this institution. This institution is incorpo- rated in NY under the Religious Act num- ber such and such and it has got the following branches all over the country. Mention herein all the 6 branches in USA, namely NY, NM, Boton, SF, Buf- falo, LA. “His presence is very urgently re- quired to transact the religious activities of all the centers, and the society is pleased to provide him for all his expendi- tures, in the matter of living, expenses, traveling expenses, and the publication of his books. His books are already selling very nicely and one of his books is being published by Mssrs. Macmillian Co. and so personally he has also a nice income, besides from our contribution for his maintenance. So in all circumstances, he will never be public charge. His services are profoundly needed by this religious denomination in the US and he will be simply carrying out the occupation of a minister of this religious institution.” So you send me the above letter signed by you as president along with the photo- stat copies of certificates which you may have in NY. I have got the original, so if you have not got photostat copies then I shall have to get them here. While sign- ing, just stamp our society’s seal which you have got with you. I have given instruction to Yamuna to write one certificate form and in that con- nection she may require to see the seal di- mension so if she wants to see, you can show or give her an impression of the seal. Hope you are all well Your ever wellwisher ACB PS. As Jayagovinda is working on behalf of the Society, I think the letter of guaran- tee which he has asked for may be sent. What about the Mridangas and Harmo- nium from Dwarkin and what about the United Shipping Corp? Is Kallan affair settled up? AUGUST, 1968 481 Montreal 19th August, 1968 68-8-11 My dear Balai dasi and Advaita das, Please accept my blessings. It was so kind of you that you have sent me a Birth- day cake, and you will be pleased to know that Govinda dasi and her husband Gour- sundar, decorated the bread with nice dif- ferent kinds of candles, and it was offered to Krishna and then I enjoyed the bread, part of it, and the rest was distributed to the devotees. It was very nice. The other day they performed by Birthday Anniver- sary, very decently, there were good gath- ering and people appreciated. And before that, there was Janamastami, at night all the Indians here, they joined and they con- tributed also liberally. So here the news are very good, as you have in NY and the London party they are proceeding to NY today and will reach there and stay for a few days, and then will go to London. Give them hearty send-off and good wishes. I again thank you for your nice cake. So far your work is concerned, now I am serious about starting a press as soon as possible, and because there is no other alternative, we must have a good press. So I have already advised about these things to Uddhava, and he will inform you. And I have also advised Purushottam that he trains somewhat in taking photographs, and some of the girl students, especially Annapurna, she knows how to use typo- graphic machine, and her future husband, Ananda, he has also some idea of press work. So, and your wife Balai dasi, she has also some knowledge in typewriting, so I do not think there is any difficulty for conducting a press, and we must do it as soon as possible. Uddhava suggested that to start a complete press, it will require about $5000.00 so I think Krishna will ar- range to supply the necessary money, but you should try to start the press as soon as possible. Of course, in Montreal there is sufficient place, and more students are coming here, being chased by the draft- board, under the circumstances, if it would have been possible to have a nice press here, then we could engage all the draft-age boys in the press work. But you say that NY is the best place, so we must start the press in the best place. That is first consideration, and Krishna will give us all strength, and printing of Bhagava- tam and other Vaishnava literature is my life and soul, so press is the biggest mri- danga, recognized by my Guru Maharaj, so I shall request you to qualify yourself for such work as soon as possible, and with Krishna’s Name, let us start it as soon as possible. Thanking you once more for sending me the nice letter and cake and offer my blessings to all other students, including your good wife, Hope you and Balai dasi are both well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB 68-8-12 Montreal 19th August, 1968 Vancouver My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of our letter dated August 13, 1968, and in the meantime I have also ad- dressed one letter to Upendra, as well as to Mr. Renovich,* asking for the passage money to go to Vancouver, but I have re- ceived neither any letter nor any passage money from either of them. Under the cir- cumstances, I can understand that the situation in Vancouver is not favorable for starting a center there immediately, so we can stop that attempt, and you may do the needful. But anything you do, that means starting a center must be first of all esti- mated that we must be able to continue it. 482 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Otherwise, rather we should not open a center in any place. Whatever centers we have already started that must be main- tained. The London party is going to New York today, and from there they will start for London, as soon as possible. That cen- ter is immediately necessary, because we have no center in Europe. Anyway don’t be worried if the Vancouver situation is not good; stop the idea, and you may go back to USA, as it is already suggested. Hope you are both well, and be careful of your health. And don’t be worried. Thanking you once more for your kind let- ter. Your ever well-wisher, A C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *Having not received any reply from ei- ther of them. I am doubtful whether they have not received my letters. Kindly in- quire what is the matter and let we know. 68-8-13 Montreal 19th August, 1968 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated August 16, 1968, and have noted the con- tents carefully. I thank you very much that you are always thinking of me; similarly, take it from me I also always think of you. I could not have allowed you to go to New York but your service was urgently needed by Brahmananda, so I could not refuse that. Anyway, your service to Krishna, either with me or anywhere else, is the same. Your writing of letter to JayaGovinda in India is all right. But at any cost, if he is in difficulty and if the letter of guarantee is absolutely necessary, then it should be issued in his favor, as requested by him. Regarding your inquiry into Japan for re- printing the book, the best thing will be to arrange for our own press. Take quotation from the Japanese firm, but I do not think, unless we print in large quantity, it will not be very cheap. Similarly, you can also inquire from Hong Kong as you have de- scribed, I have no objection, but our next attempt should be to start our own press. As such, I have already instructed Ud- dhava about these things, and so far pho- tography work is concerned, you have got some experience and you can learn about it sufficiently in the meantime. As soon as Adwaita and Uddhava says the press can be started now, we must start our own press. That I have decided. And here, Anapurna, she has agreed and her future husband, Ananda, he has also agreed to work on the typographic machine. You can inquire the price of the typographic machine also. Last time we inquired from IBM about the typographic machine, or vari-type machine, so I do not know whether Rayarama has already purchased it, but our printing process should be on the typographic machine and vari-type machine, and get the photo of the prints. That will be the process of our printing. So you can inquire in the meantime. Today, the London party led by Mu- kunda and Shyamsundar will reach to New York, and if Shyamsundar requires the copy of Bhagavad Gita, for translating it into Germany. So if he wants it you may hand over the copy, original copies, from my closet, and he will translate into Ger- many. Hope this will find you in good health; also, offer my blessings to Brahmananda, and others. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-14 Montreal 19th August, 1968 My Dear Sachisuta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated August 9, AUGUST, 1968 483 1968, and I can understand your problem. The principle to be followed by devo- tee is Clear and nice. It is stated in the Bha- gavatam, that one should be chanting the Hare Krishna mantra in such a nice way that he shall become completely disasso- ciated with any other contamination. That should be our point of view. Of course, that stage of reaching requires much time, still we should try to do it. So if you decide to stay in some place, with determination, without looking to the circumstances and concentrating your energy in the service of Lord Krishna, that will make you stead- fast. Anyway, as you have returned from Los Angeles, and you are asking my ad- vice to go somewhere else. I may inform you, of course Rupanuga’s association is very good, and you want to go to Buffalo, but instead of going to Buffalo, if you can go to Boston and help Satsvarupa because he requires the assistance of a man like you, as he suggested in his previous letter, so if you have no any previous objection, then instead of going to Buffalo, you can go to Boston. That is my advice. But I have no objection if you go to Buffalo. But wherever you may go, the point should be that our main business is service to Krishna and awkward circumstances may happen anywhere, and we should be able to hold up to all such circumstances, steadfastly we will go on with our busi- ness of service to Lord Krishna. The Boston center is also very impor- tant, because there are many students and Boston is educational center, especially there are so many universities so if you concentrate your energy and can organize the student community to understand our Philosophy it will be a great service. For- tunately, in our movement the youngsters are attracted. And in your country, I have Studied it thoroughly, that the younger generation is looking after some sort of new engagement, and they are not very much interested in the materialistic way as America is professing. This is very natu- ral. When one person, or one community, makes such improvement in material ad- vancement the next stage is the spiritual inquiry. So I have felt the pulse of your country, not of your country, but through- out the whole western world, and younger generation, they are in need of this Krishna Consciousness movement. And I am therefore sending a branch to Europe, beginning from London, and so you are very intelligent boy, and Satsvarupa is also very intelligent boy, and if you organize the students to attract them to this move- ment, it will be great service to your coun- try, and to the cause of Lord Krishna. I hope with faith and dexterity, you will do the needful, and I shall be glad to hear from you occasionally. Hope this will find you all right. Your ever well-wisher, A.C Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-15 Montreal 19th August, 1968 My Dear Tamal Krishna, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated August 13, 1968, and noted the contents with so happiness. I am glad to see in your letter indication that within very short time, you have been entrapped by Lord Krishna’s Grace and you have expressed your transcendental feelings in such a nice. way, that I cannot but admire your ca- pacity to grasp so quickly about the whole philosophy and I must pray to Lord Krishna for your more and more advance- ment in Krishna Consciousness, and be happy and successful even within this very life. That is my ardent desire. The Krishna Consciousness is cer- tainly the need for the western countries; I think timely I have come to your country, and if the younger generation like you will 484 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda cooperate with me, I am certain this movement will give the western young- sters a transcendental gift which will be recorded in the progress of history. I am so much grateful to you and other devotees of the Krishna Consciousness society that it gives me a great pride that Krishna has given me association of such nice boys. So far the nectarine of Krishna Con- sciousness is concerned, it is actually the thirst-quenching element of the dry mate- rial advancement. One Vaishnava poet, has sung so nicely, that this material world is just like a desert, and to cover the desert oceans of water are required. But if some- body tries to water the desert of our heart with such seemingly water, namely, the association which was aspired by Mr. Al- exander Shellkirk, I think you have this poetry, an English poetry which we read in our childhood in India, that one Mr. Al- exander Shellkirk, he is lamenting, he was thrown in isolated island, that society, friendship and love, divinely bestowed upon man. This is of course true. The so- ciety, friendship and love as we materially experience have got some fascination, but such fascination is compared by the poet Vidyapati as a drop of water of the ocean. His purport of singing is that, My dear Lord, this drop of water which we derive from the association of society, friend- ship, and love, what it can do in the desert of my heart? But unfortunately, I am at- tached to this drop of water only and have forgotten You. Therefore my future is very much hopeless, and I am seeking you, My Master, as the only solution. So this is the process. The material advance- ment cannot give actual happiness to the people and the Krishna Consciousness movement will surely quench the parched throat of all materialistic persons, if they are properly administered under the guid- ance of disciplic succession of previous acharyas, beginning from Lord Chaitanya intermediated by the Goswamins, and fol- lowed by us. So my request to you is that you are doing very nicely, I have heard from other students that your attempt to spread Krishna Consciousness movement in San Francisco is very laudable, please continue your energy in that way. About my coming to San Francisco, I have already written to Jayananda. I am always hankering after going there, but because there are some other program, immediately, so please ask all the devo- tees on my behalf to wait and in the mean- time, enjoy chanting Hare Krishna. The chanting Hare Krishna is our main busi- ness, that is real initiation. And as you are all following my instruction, in that mat- ter, the initiator is already there. Now the next initiation will be performed as a cere- mony Officially, of course that ceremony has value because the name, Holy Name, will be delivered to the student from the disciplic succession, it has got value, but in spite of that, as you are going on chant- ing, please go on with this business sin- cerely and Krishna willing, I may be coming to you very soon. I have already written to Jayananda about this, so don’t be impatient. Pray to Krishna that I may meet you very soon. Regarding the devotees headed by Mu- kunda and Shyamsundar, whoare going to London, they are starting today for New York, and from there they will go to Lon- don. One boy from here, Shivananda, he has already gone to Europe, probably Krishna has desired that we should intro- duce this movement in Europe also, maybe we may require many hands, devo- tees who are being trained in USA, to go to all other parts of European countries. Your appreciation for the service of your God-brothers is very much laudable. This is actually a devotee’s business that every- one should appreciate the value of other devotees. Nobody should criticize any- one. Because everyone is engaged in the service of the Lord, according to one’s AUGUST, 1968 485 capacity, and the thing is, Krishna wants to see how much one is sincere in render- ing Him service. Materially we may think that his service is greater than his, that is our material vision. Actually on the spiri- tual platform, the service rendered by a calf to Krishna and service rendered by Radharani and Her Associates, to Krishna, there is no difference. Krishna is so kind and liberal that everyone’s ser- vice, when it is sincerely offered to Krishna, He accepts. This is the statement in the Bhagavad Gita. That He accepts a little bit of flower, fruit, and water, offered to Him in devotion and love. He wants our love and devotion, otherwise, he is the Proprietor of everything, what can we give Him? This position of our subordina- tion should always be maintained and we should always give respect to our pure devotees who are engaged, in devotional service, that will make us able to make a progressive march in the devotional line. Thanking you once more, for your very nice letter, and hope you are all well there. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please find out my stationary some- where in the basement kept by Upendra and send them here. Inform Jayananda that I have received his check for $75.00. ACB 68-8-16 Montreal 21st August, 1968 My Dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated Au- gust 1, 1968, which I received just yester- day, after the mail strike. Anyway, I am so much pleased to read the contents of the letter for your intelligent questions and many other things, and all mentioned there. The first thing is about your hus- band’s endeavor to produce films of our activities. I very much appreciate this at- tempt and try to help your husband as much as possible in this matter. When you have no other engagement, at that time you can attempt to paint pictures if you have got taste for such artistic work. I understand that you are sending $100.00 permonth to Santa Fe, and I shall be glad to know for how many months, or how many installments you have sent there. Because I wanted you to send $100.00 say, for three months; I do not want that a branch should be continually maintained by other branches. Every branch should be self-dependent. Anyway I shall be glad to know how many install- ments you have already sent there, then I shall instruct you further. It may be that I may ask you to send me some help be- cause my next attempt will be to start a press of our own, in New York, or in Montreal, which will cost about $5,000. I am so pleased to note that you are always ready to serve my cause and you are proper prepared to follow my instructions in the service of Lord Krishna. Regarding the child problem: I may in- form you that allour children born of the Krishna conscious parents, they are wel- come and I want hundreds of children like that. Because infuture we expect to change the face of the whole world, be- cause child is the father of man. Anyway, I have seen Malati is nursing her child so nicely that she attended my meeting every day and the child was playing and she never cried. Similarly, Lilavati’s child also never cries or disturbs the meeting. Lilavati was always present with her child, so it depends on the mother. Howto keep the childcomfortable, so that it will not cry. The child cries only when it feels uncomfortable. The child’s comfort and discomfort depends on the mother’s atten- tion. So the best solution is that we should train our all first-day small babies in such 486 Letters from Srila Prabhupada a way that they are always satisfied and there will be no disturbance in the meet- ing, and there will be no complaint. But there cannot be any hard and fast rules that only children who are grown up, 7 or 8 years old, can be admitted and no other children can be admitted. That is not pos- sible, and I am not going to sanction any such rule. Rather I shall welcome a baby from the very beginning, so that the tran- scendental vibration may enter into its ear, and from the very beginning of its life, it becomes purified. But of course, the chil- dren cannot be allowed to disturb in the meeting by crying; and that is the moth- er’s responsibility to keep them comforta- ble, and not to disturb the meeting. Regarding your question about Chin- tamani dham, I may inform you that all the planets in the spiritual world is known as Chintamani dham. And Goloka Vrinda- ban is one of the planets. Regarding the Queens of Dwarka, mostly they were devo- tees, and some of them descended from the Vaikuntha planets, or they were mani- festation from Goddess of Fortune, Lak- shmi. The lump of iron stone which was de- livered by Samba, the members of the Yadu family wanted to destroy it, by rub- bing on a stone, and the pulp made out of the stone gridded down on the bank of a river, and gradually it grew into log. So at the end all the members of the Yadu family when they were fighting, took ad- vantage of the log and beat one another and thus the whole family was dead and gone. Your humbleness in the matter of be- coming my disciple is very much appreci- ated by me, and keep this mentality, always, and you will be happy and ad- vance in Krishan Consciousness. With all my blessings, I beg to remain your Ever-well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-17 21st August, 1968 Dear Achyutananda and JayaGovinda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived so many letters from both of you and I am replying today summarily, espe- cially your joint letter dated July 27, 1968, and JayaGovinda’s letter dated Au- gust 19, 1968. The first thing, I warn Achyutananda, do not try to initiate. You are not in a proper position now to initiate anyone. Besides that, the etiquette is that so long the Spiritual Master is present, all prospective disciples should be brought to him. Therefore if anyone is anxious to be initiated, he should first of all hear our philosophy and join chanting at least for three months, and then if required, I shall send chanted beads for him if you recom- mend. As we are doing here. Don’t be al- lured by such maya. I am training you all to become future Spiritual Masters, but do not be in a hurry. If the family of the boy who is so eager to be initiated cer- tainly, are Vaishnavas, let them offer you some place, because you are in need of a place, first and foremost. In that place hold Kirtan daily, morning and evening, as we do, that will be the sign of their sin- cerity. So for the time being, hold Kirtan as I have advised above, and speak from Srimad Bhagavatam, Bhagavad Gita, and try to serve the cause of the Krishna Con- sciousness society. You don’t be attracted by such cheap disciples immediately. One has to rise gradually by service. If you get a place in Patel Nagar, that will be very nice. Regarding printing: I have received one letter from the New O. D. Press. He is agreeable to print my books, as I have al- ready advised him, with new types, and everything, desired by me. I understand that you also saw the proprietor and you might have talked with him. He wants some money immediately for purchasing new type. But I do not find anything in your letter whether it has been deposited by Hitsharanji into my bank. In every let- ter I see there is promise, but in no letter do I find any news that the money is al- ready deposited. If the money is not im- mediately deposited, how can I pay to the New O.D. Press and begin printing work?? Please immediately arrange for depositing the money by Hitsharan ji in the bank so that I can issue check in favor of the New O.D. Press. This is very urgent, and let me know by return of post the result. The next important thing is that if you both, both of you, jointly work, then our mission in India will be successful. Now so far printing of the books, let me know whether you can take charge of doing this work nicely. You can see also the follow- ing gentleman who is also a devotee of my activities, and you can show him this let- ter whether he can spart a room for your stay to supervise the printing work: Gopal Krishna Babu; c/o Bhananull Gulzari Lal; Iron Merchants; Chauri Basar; Delhi-6, India. It is near the O.D. Press, and if he agrees it will be a very nice thing for you. Regarding gramophone records: When I was in India, Achyutananda knows that my record player was stolen. But when we went to Calcutta, one gentle- man loaned us his record player machine, and it was nicely played. This is known to Achyutananda. This means that our rec- ord was played in another gentleman’s machine. So there is no difficulty to play the records in Indian machine. Now the summary is that you should definitely let me know immediately whether you can take charge of the print- ing works, whether you can distribute or sell the records, and whether in exchange of the records you can send me the Dei- ties. These services are most important. Don’t be allured by cheap disciples. Go AUGUST, 1968 487 on steadfastly to render service first. If you immediately become Guru, then the service activities will be stopped; and as there are many cheap gurus and cheap dis- ciples, without any substantial knowl- edge, and manufacturing new sampra- dayas, and with service activities stopped, and all spiritual progress choked up. You have already mentioned one such non- bonafide sampradaya, Jaya Krishna Sam- pradaya. So let me know immediately what you are going to do, in respect to my above three important businesses en- trusted to you. JayaGovinda, you may know that I have already instructed Brahmananda to issue a letter of guaran- tee in your favor as you have desired. Please continue to send me one letter every week, on Saturday, and this will fa- cilitate our connection in a regular routine work. Hope you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, 68-8-18 Montreal 21st August, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated August 6, 1968. And I am very glad to know that you are pulling on. But one thing is that you must be self- independent, because for the time being, the students from other centers are send- ing you money and Krishna devi also has written me letter that she is sending through Dinesh a $100.00 a month. But how much you are spending and how much money you have received, please let me know. Because my next attempt will be to start a press. And I think in that press, your assistance will also be required. The press starting is very urgently needed, and in that case I shall be requiring at least $5000.00. So your center must indepen- dent, self-independent, I might ask the 488 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda students to pay me something out of their income for my press starting. So I shall be glad to hear from you what is the position and how you shal be maintaining your center. The idea is that local devotees must manage the local temple. In case of emergency, the other temples may help, but that should not be continued, for all the time. I think you will understand me right. Sachisuta also has written me that he was in Los Angeles, now he is in San Francisco, and he wants to go to Buffalo. I have asked him to go to Boston, because in Boston there is necessity of such person to help Satsvarupa. What about your permission for chant- ing in the park? This process has become successful everywhere. So you must get the permission, some way or other so that there will be no difficulty for collecting the necessary expenses. If you can chant in the park and collect some contribu- tions, and can sell our literature, that will be very good propaganda. I think as soon as you become self- dependent, you should ask the boys who are sending you money not to send money to you, but to me, because I will be requir- ing for starting the press. I am glad to learn that you are also looking for some job, and if by Grace of Krishna, you get it, that will solve the whole problem. Hope this will meet you in good health, and awaiting your early reply. Your ever well-wisher, 68-8-19 Montreal 22nd August, 1968 Mr. David Exley Chief, NGO Section External Relations Division Office of Public Information Dear Mr. Exley, I beg to thank you for your letter dated July 15, 1968, and I shall be very obliged if you kindly let me know whether we can talk about Bhagavad Gita as it is, in the church attached to the United Nations. Such meeting and discussions would be of great interest to many persons, and would be extremely beneficial to everyone in- volved. Please let me know if we can ar- range some lecutre engagement, at the church above-mentioned, at the earliest convenience. I thank you once more for your kind letter, and for your interest shown in our movement, and I shall be awaiting your reply at your earliest convenience. Sincerely yours, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, Acharya International Society for Krishna Con- sciousness 68-8-20 Montreal 22nd August, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you very much for your note along with the paperback cover of the Bhagavad Gita as it is. And I have very much appre- ciated the whole thing. The design and the painting and everything. So far Swami Bhaktivedanta, it is not very important thing. The Swami title can be given, in the beginning or in the end, that doesn’t mat- ter. So you need not be very much worried about it. So far my name being inserted just on the left hand of the Lord, is also very much appreciated. It is not exactly on the Head, but it is on the left Arm, so we are Arms of the Lord, because we are fighting against the influence of Maya, or the non-devotees. Actually we the Krishna Conscious people are soldiers of the Lord, or Arms of the Lord, and be- cause we are energy at the same time, be- cause all living entities are energy of the Lord, so energy is always kept on the left AUGUST, 1968 489 side. As you have seen, Radharani is also on the left side of the Lord, and similarly, Lakshmiji is also kept on the left side of the Lord, so we are also marginal energy, not exactly like Radharani or Lakshmiji, but we are superior energy than matter, or material energy, so we should keep our- self always on the left side of the Lord, and let us act as His Arms, or army. I’ve also noted with pleasure this description of the jacket for the hardbound edition, and I un- derstand that my photo will be there and it will be sold at $6.95. And you are expec- ting advance copies by the end of October. At last in this connection, I must offer you my heartiest blessing because it is due to your endeavor that we are finding our Bhagavad Gita to be published by a great publisher. And through your grace also we are going to publish Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. So I shall be glad to know what is the position with Dianippon. As soon as you ask me I shall send them the letter of credit. Another thing, in India, it is the practice that if we give orders for one thousand copies printing, they print 1,100 copies. It is 100 copies they print without any charges. Of course, in India the pro- cess is, the paper is supplied by the cus- tomer, and the press prints a hundred copies more without any charge. I do not know if this arrangement is also applica- ble to the Japanese printers, but anyway, as soon as I hear from you I shall arrange for the letter of credit. Regarding your letter dated 18th Au- gust, 1968, in which you have described about the Radha Krishna Pastimes, I could not understand whether it is a film demonstration, but the description is very nice. So does it mean that a film has been taken of this demonstration? I shall be glad to know further about it. Hoping you are all well, and I remain, Your ever well-wisher, P.S. I have received Ekayani Dasis letter. Please convey by thanks for her parts. Radhahstami is on the 31st August 1968. Please inform Shyamsundar that I have sent yesterday afternoon $1655.00 Dol- lars to the Bank in London as desired by him. 68-8-21 Montreal 22nd August, 1968 My Dear Daniel, Please accept my blessings. I am so much thankful to you for your good wishes, and your realization that you are the eternal servant of Krishna. It is the pri- mary understanding of our constitutional position. Actually, we are servant, but in the conditioned state, every one of us pos- ing as the master. The sooner we forget that we are not master, we are servant; and if even though we are not inclined to serve Krishna, we have to become the servant of our senses. So the sooner we realize this fact, that our constitutional position is servant, that means we are liberated. Lib- eration means to be situated in one’s origi- nal position. Just like a man suffering from fever, so relief from fever means to be situated in normal condition. So ser- vice is our normal condition, but this ser- vice being misplaced, we are not happy but as soon as the service is placed to the right person, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Krishna, everything becomes happy and successful. Please go on chanting “‘Govinda Jai Jai, Govinda Jai Jai, Radha Ramana Hari, Govinda Jai Jai”, along with “Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare. Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama, Rama, Hare Hare.” And in any condition you shall be happy without any doubt. Thanking you once more for your postcard, and I beg to remain Your ever well-wisher, 490 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-8-22 Montreal 22nd August, 1968 My Dear Jayananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your note, along with the forms. And I thank you very much for this. The forms are already fingerprinted because on inquiry it was found in the American Consulate here, so I have done the necessary fingerprints and submitted to them. And let us see what happens. But I understand that you can get a personal certificate from the police offi- cer or the police station nearby, if it is pos- sible, get it. That will help us very much. And you may know that London party has already left Montreal and they are in New York, and from there sometimes within this week they will go to London. I understand from various sources that our San Francisco center under your good leadership is going on very nicely; I thank you for your such transcendental activi- ties, and Krishna will be certainly very much pleased and give you more and more strength to understand Krishna Con- sciousness and make advancement in that line. I also beg to acknowledge receipt here- with of your letter dated July 13, 1968, which was not delivered so long due to mail strike. And you enclosed in that let- ter a check for $75.00 which has been duly received. Regarding Tamal Krishna, I have replied separately, I understand from different sources that he is doing very wonderfully. And he has become a great assistant to you. It is all Krishna’s Grace. Please ask him to enhance the Samkirtan party more and more, and then the whole San Francisco city will be fol- lowers of our Krishna Consciousness movement. It is so pleasing that more and more boys are joining the Krishna Con- sciousness movement and I wish that the whole group known as the hippies may take advantage of this movement, and make their life very successful. I have received one letter from Vinode Patel also, and it is understood that he is living in Berkeley School, and I am reply- ing him separately. He appears to be sin- cere boy. Thank you once more for your kind letter, and I beg to remain Your ever well-wisher, 68-8-23 Montreal 22nd August, 1968 My Dear Vinode, Patel Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge ‘receipt of your letter dated 17th July, 1968, delivered to me just yes- terday, after a month, on account of the mail strike. Anyway, I am very glad to learn that you are approaching the Gu- zerati people in San Francisco, and asking them for their support in the temple, that is a great satisfaction for me. Next time when I go to San Francisco, I wish to visit personally all the Guzerati residents of San Francisco, through your exigency and I shall be glad to speak to them about my mission. My mission is to establish that Krishna Stu Bhagavan Swayam. The In- ternational Society for Krishna Con- sciousness wants to establish that one God, one scripture, one mantra, and one service. One God is Krishna, one scrip- ture is Bhagavad Gita, one mantra is Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, and one service means everything for the Lord. So it is pleasing to me that the Guzerati ladies and gentlemen who are in San Francisco, they should take keen interest in this movement because superficially or from the histori- cal point of view, Krishna was a Guzerati. His father was a Guzerati, but His mater- nal uncle’s house was in Mathura. And His foster father’s house was at Vrinda- ban. So of course, these are superficial, AUGUST, 1968 491 so even we take Krishna as a historical Person, the Guzeratis must take more in- terest than others. I thank you very much for your prom- ise that you shall try your best to cooperate with me, and in my movement, and for the temple, and for which all blessings and Grace of Krishna will be bestowed upon you. I beg to remain, Your ever well-wisher, 68-8-24 Montreal 23rd August, 1968 Jaya Om Vishnupad Paramhansa Paribrajakracharya Astottara Sata (108) Srimad Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Goswami Prabhupad Ki Jaya Namah Om Vishnupadaya Krishnapresthaya Bhutale Srimate Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Iti Namine Jaya Sriman Hayagriva Brahmachary Prabhu Ki Jaya Jaya Sriman Kritanananda Swami Maharaj Ki Jaya My Dear Kirtanananda and Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated August 20, 1968, and was so much pleased to read the contents carefully. Now I can understand clearly the mining position; anyway, as it is clear to everyone of us, now we can work with great enthusiasm for construc- ting a New Vrindaban in the United States of America. People who came from Eu- rope to this part of the world, they named so many new provinces, and countries, Just like New England, New Amsterdam, New York, so I also came in this part of the world to preach Krishna Conscious- ness and by His Grace and by your en- deavor, New Vrindaban is being con- structed. That is my great happiness. Our sincere endeavor in the service of the Lord, and the Lord’s assistants, to make our progressive march successful, are two important things to be followed in spiri- tual advancement of life. I think it was Krishna’s desire that this New Vrindaban scheme should be taken up by us, and now He has given us a great opportunity to serve Him in this scheme. So let us do it sincerely and all other help will come au- tomatically. I am very glad to notice in Kirtanananda’s letter that he has realized more and more that the function of New Vrindaban is nothing physical or bodily, but purely spiritual and for the glorifica- tion of the Lord, Sri Hari. If we actually keep this view in our front, certainly we shall be successful in our progressive march. I am very glad to learn, Kirtanananda, you are feeling so much happy in serving a beautiful Jagganath Murtis which you have taken from Montreal. The aratrik ceremony can be performed as follows: The first aratrik ceremony is performed as you seen in Vrindaban, at Radha Da- modara Temple, early in the morning, be- fore sunrise, at least one and a half hour before sunrise. The second aratrik is per- formed at about 8:00 in the morning, after dressing and decorating the Deity with flowers. The third aratrik is performed af- ter offering the luncheon to the Deity. And then the fourth aratrik is performed in the evening. And the fifth aratrik is per- formed when the Lord goes to bed. So you have got practical experience, you have seen how they are doing in Radha Damo- dara Temple, and gradually, as far as pos- sible, you can introduce them. Jagganath Swami is very kind to the fallen souls, be- cause He is the Lord of the Universe, and all the living creatures are His subjects, therefore, Jagganath Swami will bless you with all the required intelligence, how to 492 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda satisfy Him. On the bathing ghats in In- dia, generally, they install Lord Shiva’s Murti, but that is not possible here, nei- ther we want todivert attention in so many performances. Concentrate in one tem- ple, and then we shall extend one after an- other. Immediately the scheme should be to have a temple in the center as you have already taken the plan, and residential quarter for the Brahmacharies, or Grihas- tras, and let us go ahead with that plan at first. Our next attempt should be to establish a New Vrindaban post office at our door, and if you can arrange for this. I think to establish a post office nearby it will be re- quired that you get some letters from all centers. So this will not be difficult if that is the rule. First of all you know from au- thorities what is the paraphernalia, rules, to get a post office, then we shall advise all our centers to send you letters, at least 6 or one dozen from each center, and this will be sufficient to give proof that we are get- ting letters plenty. The scheme regarding the will of Hayagriva Brahmachary, as well as the lease agreement between the society and Hayagriva Brahmachary, the tax payment, all this scheme are very nicely made, and I have got all my approval and so far the trustees are concerned, this is also re- quired, and I can suggest that amongst the trustees, your two names, Kirtanananda and Hayagriva, and then Brahmananda, and from San Francisco Jayananda, and Mukunda, and Satsvarupa, Dayananda, Shyamsundar, etc. and such sincere boys, who are working with their life and soul for the society, may be the trustees, and I think you should immediately make cor- respondence with Brahmananda, and I have already advised him that we should make a central committee for manage- ment of all the centers. Or, if especially for New Vrindaban, different trustees re- quired, that I cannot say. In my idea, there should be one central body of trustees for directing all the different centers as well as New Vrindaban, but there must be a lo- cal governing body for each center, that is my idea. Now you are consulting with some lawyers, you can take their sugges- tion also, but do everything very nicely so that we can serve Krishna without any dif- ficulty. Regarding Bhagavat edition: I have al- ready decided that we must have a press. But it is understood that starting of press in New Vrindaban may not be very feasi- ble, because if there is something wrong in the press, it will be difficult to repair it. Adwaita, he is now working in some press for becoming our future press expert in running on the press. Adwaita, Uddhava, both of them are working. And I have al- ready advised that as soon as they assure that they can manage a press working, we shall immediately start the press. Regarding editing of Bhagavatam: Certainly it will be entrusted to you, be- cause Rayarama is engaged in the Back to Godhead. Hardly he will get some time. So I have decided to print Srimad Bha- gavatam in 12 volumes, naming them dif- ferently. I have decided in this way; Ist vol., Creation; 2nd vol., Cosmic Mani- festation; 3rd vol., Status quo; 4rth vol., Mercy of God; Sth vol., Creative Energy; 6th vol., The Rulers of the Universe; 7th vol., Activities of God; 8th vol., Dissolu- tion; 9th vol., Liberation; 10th vol., Ulti- mate Goal; 11th vol., General History; 12th vol., The Age of Deterioration. You told me that you will arrange for the electricity immediately, so as soon as electricity connection is there, I shall go and stay in New Vrindaban for some time. Maybe, Krishna desiring, I may make my headquarter there. Your suggestion that Pondicherry was made famous on account of press work, it is good suggestion and my Guru Maharaj’s opinion is that press is the brihat mridanga, or the biggest, or the AUGUST, 1968 493 greater mridanga. The sound of press goes long long distance, long distant places, so the organization of press and literature and public sales, should be our main business. The San Francisco devotees are in New York, and so you may not send the Chaitanya lila just now, better you finish it nicely. Then we shall see what to do. Yes, Rayarama is trying his heart and soul to improve the quality of Back To Godhead, so this department should be exclusively managed by him, because he has devoted his everything for this Back To Godhead department. I have asked also Janardan to join the editorial depart- ment of publication, and he will do trans- lation work in French, of all our literatures, and similarly Shyamsundar may help in translating all the literatures in Germany, and I am arranging to take the mimeograph machine from New York, into Montreal, so that Janardan and other boy, Dayal Nitai, who is French Ca- nadian, they can immediately issue, a French edition of Back To Godhead. I am so pleased to learn that Kir- tanananda, you have already attracted neighboring devotees by your presenta- tion of Prasadam. I am sure this Prasadam attraction will make our neighbors friendly and surely they will come in number in future so that New Vrindaban will be ideal place for visiting from the neighboring provinces, counties, I think so and it will be done nicely. I am so glad to learn that you are feeling too much en- gagement in New Vrindaban, and this a spiritual inspiration. Our society should never be a devil’s workshop, but it should be certainly the most magnificent plat- form for spiritual activities. You will be pleased also to know that I am trying for religious minister’s immi- gration visa in USA, and it is almost fin- ished, and I am hopeful of becoming successful. Hope this will meet you all in good health, and complete Krishna Con- sciousness, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. The goat can be namedsRevachhagi, and the cow can be named as Surabhigai. Also you will be pleased to note that I’ve asked Goursundar to make a layout of the whole land and I shall place 7 different temples in different situation, as proto- type of. Vrindaban. There will be seven principle temples, namely, [TEXT MISSING] 68-8-25 Montreal 24th August, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your three letters, dated Au- gust 19, August 13, and July 25. I beg to thank you very much for them. After the postal strike is over, there are so many let- ters congested and therefore, I am sorry that I am late to reply your letter. But I have carefully seen the contents of the three letters and I understand that you are moving near Hollywood vicinity, and some of the devotees from San Francisco are going to your place to join Samkirtan and I am sure this will be a great success- ful attempt. I also understand that Samkarsam is coming to the temple, but Baladev has ceased to come on account of influence of his wife. But if you let me know his address, I can write to him per- sonally. In the Bhagavad Gita, it is said that even a very small attempt in the path of Krishna Consciousness can save one from the greatest danger. Krishna Conscious- ness is spiritual consciousness, and 494 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda whatever is achieved in the matter of real- ization of this spiritual progress, will never go in vain. The fact is that there are two kinds of consciousness: Krishna Con- sciousness, and non-Krishna Conscious- ness. A man may perform Krishna Consciousness to a certain percentage, and another man may perform Krishna Consciousness to greater percentage or cent per cent progress. So those who are not able to perform the cent per cent prog- ress, they have to remain in the material world, but according to the percentage of progress, they are allowed to take their next birth either in a rich family or in a very pure family; in both the cases, one is given the chance to have human form of life so that one can make progress from the point where he ended in his last life. The best thing is that every intelligent man must try to finish this business of Krishna Consciousness in this life. Finishing means one has to conclude that he has no more any necessity for material enjoy- ment. Spiritual enjoyment of life is the re- ality, and when one is perfectly prepared to accept spiritual enjoyment, and com- pletely understands the uselessness of ma- terial enjoyment, that is the perfectional point of view. I received letters from Dayananda, and Nandarani, and I am going to reply them separately. Our Bhagavad Gita as it is, which is being published by Macmillan company will be ready by the end of Octo- ber 1968, and I think Teachings of Lord Chaitanya also will be ready by that time. So if Samkarsan can help us in selling our books, Srimad Bhagavatam, Bhagavad Gita, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, it will be a great service to the society. The status of Back To Godhead is certainly improv- ing, and I hope it will improve more and more, and two boys, namely Adwaita and Uddhava, they are working in a press, and as soon as they are confident that they are competent to run on a press, we shall start our own press at any place. You will also be glad to know that Hayagriva Brahma- chary has taken a 99 year’s lease on a very large plot of land about 134 acres, for con- structing New Vrindaban. So Krishna is giving us gradually facilities to make progress in Krishna Consciousness, and if we work sincerely, there will be no scar- city of help in every respect. I have re- ceived the copy of the initiated disciples of the society. Chanting in the park and on the street is Our new movement and it is successful. It has become successful in San Fran- cisco, in New York, as well as in Mon- treal. So if we adopt this means in Los Angeles, I am sure it will also become successful. In San Francisco, I under- stand the Kirtan party collects sometimes up to $40.00 daily, and Monteral, the other day, Hansadutta collected $24.00, similarly I hear from Boston, they are also making good collection. So if you can or- ganize this Samkirtan party chanting in the parks and in the street, with permit from the authorities, there will be no scar- city of money, and people will be very glad to contribute. The more we struggle for advancing our Krishna Consciousness movement, the more we become advanced on the path. Really, devotional service means that we have to employ our energies for the purpose of Krishna Consciousness, and it does not matter what is the volume of such energy, because different persons have got different type of energies, but the best means is that one has to apply his en- ergy as far as possible, that is the secret of success in Krishna Consciousness. It does not mean that one has to acquire the en- ergy of an elephant or one has to become very learned or intelligent man, simply one has to become sincere and employ whatever energy he has in his possession in the service of the Lord. That is the se- cret of success in Krishna Consciousness. AUGUST, 1968 495 Hope this will meet you in good health, and I shall be glad to hear more from you about the progress of your Samkirtan movement recently adopted. Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 24th August, 1968 68-8-26 My Dear Dayananda, and Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I received your letter dated July 18, after the mail strike as well as Nandarani’s letter, along with it. And I thank you very much for them. Regarding immigration: I have al- ready received immigration in Canada, so there is no difficulty for my going to USA, but still I am trying to get immigration of religious minister into the USA, and it is progressing well. I think there will be no difficulty in coming and going to USA, ei- ther from Canada or anywhere, so don’t be worried about it. Krishna will help us. Now, regarding your question: ‘““What is the difference between Jagganath deities and Krishna Murti and why is the latter not fed and cared for as well as the former and why are Jagganaths more tolerant?” Krishna means Himself and all His ex- pansions, different expansions. So some- times, Krishna appears as Vasudev, sometimes as Samkarsan, sometimes as Jagganath, sometimes as Lord Chaitanya, sometimes as Rama, so all such different incarnations includes the Name Krishna. So Jagganath is another feature of Krishna, and He is especially favorable to the people who are not strictly advanced to the Brahminical culture of Vedic rituals. Lord Jagganath is situated in In- dia, at Puri; this place is one of the towns of Orissa province. And the people of Orissa and Bengal. they are sometimes fish-eaters, why sometimes—about 90% Population they are fish-eaters. But Jag- ganath Swami in Puri, He accepts service from these people although they are sometimes fish-eaters. So in the Kali yuga, the people are supposed to be not so clean, and therefore, service to Jagganath Swami is preferred. So far service to Lakshmi-Narayan, and Radha Krishna, it requires highly elevated position, tran- scendental to Brahmins. But still, either we serve Jagganath or Radha Krishna, the effect is the same. But to facilitate the worship of the Lord in the Form of Jag- ganath is more congenial than others. But when anything is offered to Jagganath, it does not mean that it is not taken by Krishna. So in the temple, although we of- fer to Jagganath, it is also accepted by Krishna. Be rest assured of this fact. Regarding your question: “What is the correct sexual etiquette for a strict Grihas- tha; and what is spiritual family plan- ning?” Unless one wants to beget a child, there should not be any sex life. The best thing is to forget sex, but it is not possible immediately or all of a sudden, especially in the Western countries where sex life is so liberal. So under the circumstances, one should try to have sex life only for children, not for any other purpose. Spiri- tual family planning is that one should be determined to train up children in Krishna Consciousness. According to Bhagavat, the spiritual family planning is that one should not become a father or one should not become a mother, unless he is able to maintain their children to the extent of lib- eration. It is the duty of the parents to see that the children are growing luxuriantly not only materially, but spiritually also. So spiritual training should be given from the very beginning. Koumaram acharik raghia—In the Srimad Bhagavatam, Pra- lad Maharaj has instructed that spiritual consciousness or Krishna Consciousness should be taught to the children from the very beginning as they are given educa- tion from early childhood. 496 Letters from Srila Prabhupada The next question, “will you please explain about the 28th mahayuga of this Manu, in which the treta and dwapara yugas are reversed?” The 28th mahayuga means that in Brahma’s one day, there are 14 Manus. And each Manu’s life is the du- ration of 71 mahayugas. And one maha- yuga means 4 yugas combined. The dura- tion of Sattva yuga is about 18 hundred thousands of years. And the duration of Treta yuga is about 12 hundred thousands of years. And the duration of Dwapara yuga is about 800 thousands of years, and the duration of Kali yuga is about 400 thous- ands of years. So all together, becomes a mahayuga, and such 71 mahayugas take place in the life of one Manu, and there are 14 Manus in the one day duration of Brahma. So in the 28th mahayuga, of the life of Vivasvata Manu, at the end of Dwa- para yuga, Lord Krishna appears, and in the next Kali yuga, Lord Chaitanya ap- peared. Previous to this Kali yuga, there was Dwapara yuga, when men used to live for 1000 years. In the Treta yuga, they used to live 10,000 of years and in the Sat- tya yuga, they used to live for 100,000 years. Modern calculation of Sattya yuga, Treta yuga, Dwapara yuga, Kali yuga, as golden age, bronze age, silver age, copper age, and other age, that is historical refer- ences. But the Vedic calculation is differ- ent from such calculation. But it can be accepted to a certain extent to understand that history is changing and repeating at the same time. You are always welcome to put ques- tions, and it is my duty to answer all the questions to my sincere devotees. You will be glad to know that our one of the Pra- bhus, Sriman Hayagriva Brahmachary, has leased out a 99 year lease on one great plot of land to construct New Vrindaban. So San Francisco is progressing as New Jagganath Puri and West Virginia plot of land may be constructed as New Vrinda- ban, but I am still hoping that we can do something in Florida also. You suggested previously that you have got friend who has got some land and in Florida, and he wants to utilize it for some religious pur- pose. So I still draw your attention, if something can be done in the Florida. Hope this will find you both in good health, along with your good child Chan- dramukhi. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *That the people of Orissa and Bengal eat fish in their private homes is a fact. But they do not offer anything like that to the Lord Jagganath. The Lord is offered all nice foodstuffs as we are striving to do in our all our temples here. The news of the Car festival of Lord Jagganatha of S.F. was published not only in the local papers but also in India as in the Yugavtar A.B. Patrik, Truth, and many others on 10th July 1968. 68-8-27 Montreal 24th August, 1968 West Berlin My Dear Son, Brahmachary Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated August 21, 1968, and I declare herewith that Krishna desired you to go to Amsterdam, and therefore, you are not admitted in En- gland. I have seen also the description of your little activities in Amsterdam, but I could not understand the language. But one thing I observed in that article, there is publication of my name, Swami A. C. Bhaktivedanta. So this indicates that your tour in Europe is going to be very success- ful. I am glad that you are going to West Berlin, and I hope you will duly receive this letter, and be courageous and always chant Hare Krishna. You will be success- ful. Similarly, I came in New York, in 1965, in the same position, and gradually AUGUST, 1968 497 many Students like you have come to me. So don't be disappointed. Do and try your best and Krishna will give you all help. I understand that one Finland young boy has joined you, similarly many other young men will come and join, because the whole world is in necessity of Krishna Consciousness. My Guru Maharaj used to say that there is no scarcity of anything in this world, save and except Krishna Consciousness. Keep your present atti- tude, intact; have good faith in your Spiri- tual Master and Krishna and everything will be all right. You have already taken this secret of success, sincerity, and pull on with that mentality. And Krishna will give you all help. You write to say, “I really miss Swamiji and my God-brothers’ associa- tion so much.” But I may remind you that I am always with you. And so wherever I am there, and you are there, all your God- brothers are there. Please remember al- ways the humble teachings that you have received from me, and that will make you always associated with me, and with your other God-brothers. I hope this will find you in good health, and good Krishna Consciousness. Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have forwarded your letters to Gargamuni in Vancouver so that he may get courage by your example. ACB Montreal 24th August, 1968 His Excellency the Right Honourable Roland Michener Governor-General of Canada Government House Ottawa, Ontario, Canada 68-8-28 Your Excellency, ISKCON (the International Society of Krishna Consciousness) is a non- lucrative organization, whose purpose is to promote the well-being of human soci- ety by drawing its attention to God. We are a non-sectarian society, and our members include people from Christian, Jewish and Moslem as well as Hindu faiths. The aim of ISKCON is not to found a new reli- gious sect, but to invoke the living entity’s dormant love of God, and thus provide the human society of all faiths with acommon platform of clear theistic knowledge and practice. Members of ISKCON may re- tain their own respective religious faiths, as ISKCON is meant to establish a clear, practical common formulation of the common ideal of all theists, and to defeat the unnecessary dogmatic wranglings that now divide and invalidate the theistic camp. This common ideal of theism is to develop love of God. We are following in the footsteps of Lord Chaitanya to invoke the dormant love of Godhead. The sum and substance of this teaching is that the living entity is eternally the subordinate servant of God, but unfortunately, being sophisticated by illusion, everyone in the human society is trying to predominate over others without accepting the Supreme Predominator. A case in point is the recent Russian inva- sion of Czechoslovakia. ISKCON is trying to train people to be situated in that pure condition of life by simple methods, encouraging them to as- sociate always in the matters of God con- sciousness or Krishna Consciousness, and actually I have good results in the sense that since I have come to the West- ern countries to preach this cult, my disci- ples have taken to this principle unhesitatingly although they belong to different faiths and cultures. So I think this propagation of love of Godhead can be pushed forward more and more with good results. I came to Montreal in the month of 498 Letters from Srila Prabhupada June, desiring to stay here, and your Im- migration department has kindly accepted me as a landed immigrant. As such, I wish to make Montreal my headquarters for this cultural or religious propaganda in the Western world. I was in search of a nice place in the city, fortunately, I have found one at 722 Sherbrooke Street West, and it is understood that Your Excellency is the ultimate disposer of this property. If by suitable arrangement, this prop- erty is handed over to my society, I can very nicely organize its activities as fol- lows: 1. Establishing a press to publish books and magazines. Many of my books are already published, and one Bhagavad Gita as it is is being published by Mssrs. MacMillan and Co., and is scheduled to appear by the end of October, 1968. Please see also enclosed photo of the late President L.B. Shastri of India accepting my Srimad Bhagavatam. 2. Chanting, dancing, playing devotional music. 3. Feasting and distributing spiritually prepared food. 4. Training preachers. 5. Holding classes in the philosophy of God realization. I enquired from Mssrs. Crown Assets Disposal Corporation of Ottawa, and I un- derstand that they have fixed the price of the house at about $400,000.00 (four hun- dred thousand dollars). So far I am con- cerned, I cannot pay the whole amount at once, but I can accept whatever terms Your Excellency may be pleased to think proper. But as I am a missionary worker, I can take the responsibility of paying $12,000.00 (twelve thousand dollars) per year, each year in advance. If Your Excel- lency would kindly consider my activities as very essential for the human society at large, you can do something by which I can make proper utilization of the house as above mentioned. This favor will be a great deal of help to the cause of human society, and good name and fame for the Government of Canada. Thanking Your Excellency in anticipa- tion of your kind reply, I remain, Yours truly, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 24th August, 1968 68-8-29 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am just in receipt of our letter dated 21st August 1968, and I have noted the contents. I hope yesterday Goursundar talked with you, in telephone, and whatever I had to say, you have been informed. But today, I may let you know that the idea of opening centers in large cities in USA, is quite welcome, and we have got opportunities to do that. But at the same time, as you two have gone to Vancouver, I think you should not come back defeated. That will not be good. You try to openeven a small center there, and as you say, there is no other yoga society and Mr. Renovich is lit- tle sympathetic, so don’t be disappointed. I think you should try to open a center as far as possible. I am subjoining herewith the letters which I have received from Shivananda, who is now in Amsterdam, and he is pro- ceeding to Berlin. You will be pleased that his little activities for a few days, is now published in a local paper with his photo. And although he is alone, I think his jour- ney to Europe is a successful one by this time. And similarly wherever we go, we must not come back defeated. That is my idea. So I think Shivananda’s enclosed copy of letter will encourage you. Hope this will find you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. One thing, that, there is no necessity of my going there immediately, unless you find it quite suitable, but if required, you AUGUST, 1968 499 may call one or two other devotees also, and to join in Kirtan, and it will be suc- cessful, if you chant in the park and in your compartment, people will gradually come. That is my opinion. Hansadutta is doing the same thing here, and he got the other day, 24 dollars. Similarly, in Boston Satsvarupa is also doing that, and what to speak of San Francisco. I think this Kirtan process will be all right. Montreal 26th August, 1968 68-8-30 San Francisco My Dear Jayananda, Kartikeya, Shama dasi, Dorothy, Vishnujana, Dan, Tom, Russell, Michael, Krishna devi, and all my sons and daughters in San Francisco, Please accept my blessings. I am so grateful to you for your invitation to come to San Francisco as soon as possible, and equally I am also anxious to go there, but for certain unavoidable reasons, I cannot immediately go to San Francisco. One of the reasons is that I may have to go to Van- couver and I am expecting instructions in this connection at every moment. So if I go to Vancouver then from Vancouver I shall go to San Francisco, and if I do not go to Vancouver, then probably by the end of September I must go to San Francisco. I am in due receipt of your letter, Jayananda, dated August 21, 1968, and I am glad to learn that one Indian gentle- man, Sri Ranchhoubha Patel, is returning to India and upon returning they will send two 18” marble Radha Krishna Murti, and certainly when you receive those Murtis, we shall have a grand festival. In the meantime, the Murti of Murli Mano- har when arrives by the end of September, I must be present and do the needful nice ceremony. When I go to San Francisco, I shall deal with these Indian ladies and gentlemen, and in the meantime, keep them alive in the activities of our temple. It may be that we may open another center in San Francisco, near this Patel commu- nity. Anyway, let Murli Manohar come, then Radharani will automatically come. Regarding the Associated Press: It is a very good opportunity to push our pub- licity through this sympathetic press. I have got so many things to say to such press representative, and if you can see the gentleman and arrange to send a repre- sentative here in Montreal, so it will be a nice opportunity to speak to them person- ally. You wanted to send me one certificate for the police officer, and I also confirmed this, but I have not received as yet the cer- tificate. If possible, please send it imme- diately. Iam so much pleased with the good re- ports of your Samkirtan party there, and please continue to spread our Krishna Consciousness movement in this way, and you will receive the blessings of Lord Chaitanya. I am very happy to hear of the so many new boys and girls taking a sin- cere interest in this philosophy, and I am also very eager to meet with them when I come there to San Francisco. In the meantime, please continue your very excellent work of spreading this Krishna Consciousness all over that part of the country, and try to attract more and more new boys and girls to this great movement. Thanking you once more for your many kind letters of invitation, and hop- ing you are well and happy. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. Please send my stationary (like this sheet), which is lying with you there, if you have not yet done so, as we will be needing it very soon. 500 Letters from Srila Prabhupdada 68-8-31 Montreal 26th August, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated August 22, 1968, and so far Dwarkin is concerned, I got one copy of the letter, dated 4th April, 1968, in which for two different invoices they submitted total value, Rs. 2554, showing a balance in their favor, Rs. 688.33., out of which if the value of one Dulcitina is deducted—So, $50.00 means Rs. 375 approximately. So they want 87.71, and the amount due to them may be 433.33. So approximately it comes to the same amount, namely, 87.71. Anyway, I haven’t got all the papers with me. You have all these papers, so you can see what is the actual position and do the needful. I hope by this time the San Francisco devotees have already started for London, and I shall be glad to hear if there is any news from them, or about them. Regarding the cover of the Bhagavad Gita as it is: I want to present before a Consulate General this cover when I may be called to visit him, but because you have wanted it back, so I am sending it to you. If you can secure advance order, that is more important business than showing it to a Consulate General. So I am return- ing it back to you. Hope you are well, and all is going nicely there. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please send some sets of Srimad Bha- gavatam (2nd & 3rd) to Montreal with bill. The former books sent to Janardan is paid to me here. ACB Montreal 28th August, 1968 Sriman Hitsaran Sharma c/o Dalmia Enterprises Number 4, Scindia House New Delhi, India 68-8-32 My Dear Hitsaranji, Please accept my blessings. Since a very long time I did not hear from you, and I do not know why you are silent. In the meantime, I was given to understand that you are going to deposit Rs. 2000/- withing 20th of August, 1968. I have not received any news whether you have de- posited the money or not, but one thing is very urgent, that I have to immediately pay to Omkar Press for starting the work. I am surjoining herewith the copy of the letter which I received from the Omkar Press, as late as on the 25th July, 1968, but I could not pay him because I did not hear from you. But I wish to begin the work immediately. I handed over the printing work to you, with expectation that you will do it nicely, but you find it difficult to do it, so please do not detain me any further, for making progress in the printing work. I hope you will kindly re- ply this letter and let me know whether you have deposited the about Rs. 2000/- in my bank account. If you find it difficulty to pay at a time, so you can immediately pay to Omkar Press directly or deposit in the bank at least Rs. 1000/- so that the printing work may not be detained. Another thing, regarding Deities: I un- derstand from JayaGovinda’s letter that Sethji wants to contribute two Pair of Dei- ties provided the freight is paid by some- body else. So I agree to this proposal. Kindly arrange to send at least two Pairs of Radha Krishna Deities, brass, as per specification given to you before. By the by, also let me know whether you have received 5 gramophone records, which sent to the address of Sethji, about AUGUST, 1968 501 3 months ago. Iam very anxious to know about you. And also I shall be glad to hear how you and your family are doing. Kindly reply this letter per return of post, and oblige. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-33 Montreal 28th August, 1968 My Dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. You will be glad to know that I am starting for New York on the 31st instant at 4:30 p.m., and reaching New York at 5:50. I wish to meet Satyabrata; if he does not like to come to our temple, then I wish to go there to his place. Please arrange for this sometimes on Sunday. I hope you will remember my request to you about the press opening. The deci- sion is now complete and now I am going to New York to arrange for it. Perhaps you have already known also about the land leasing for New Vrindaban attempted by Hayagriva Brahmachary and Kirtan- ananda Swami. Hope this will meet you in good health, and more when we meet. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-34 Montreal 30th August, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter after a long time. I am glad that you are taking proper care of your health, and I wish Krishna may bless you for your long life and good work. You will be pleased to know that I am proceeding to New York tomorrow afternoon, at 4:30 p.m. reaching there at 5:50. And if possible I shall remain there for one week before starting for San Fran- cisco. The San Francisco devotees espe- cially some of the Indian residents, who havetaken interest in our temple, since the Rathayatra festival was performed, they are very much anxious to see me, and they have proposed to cooperate fully with our movement. So I think I should go there and encourage them. So I am going there by the end of the first week of September. I have noted down the description of the paintings that you have recently done, and I hope in the meantime Saradia has reached under your care. This girl is very innocent, and nice student; please try to keep her under your care, at least for one year. Then I shall get her married with Vaikunthanath das Brahmachary. She is also good typist, and if possible she can help the typewriting work and assist Sat- svarupa. And I hope everything is going there well, and shall be glad to hear from you at the New York address. Hope you are now in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-35 Montreal 30th August, 1968 My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you for your letter dated August 24, 1968, with 2 pictures, photographs of our temple in Buffalo. You have written to say that Buffalo is doing well, but I think Buf- falo is doing well because you are doing well. Every place is expansion of Krishna’s material energy, and material energy being expansion of Krishna, in one sense there is no difference between Krishna and the material energy. The only defect of material energy is that it is some- thing like the prison department of the 502 Letters from Srila Prabhupada government. But it is not that all the per- sons residing in prison are under prison rules and regulations. Similarly, all con- ditioned souls who are within this mate- rial energy, are supposed to be the prison walls of material nature, but those who are officering on behalf of Krishna, they are not members of the prison rules and regulations. So our members of Krishna Consciousness all over the world who are engaged in preaching Lord Krishna’s de- sire, that everyone should surrender unto Him, so one who has taken up seriously to preach this message in the world, he is considered as doing well. So my conclu- sion is that Buffalo is doing well because you are doing well. I am so glad to see that one of my sincere disciples has sacrificed everything for spreading Krishna Con- sciousness, and I am so pleased upon you that you are showing the example of an ideal householder. Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur was also a householder, but he lived in so perfect Krishna Consciousness that he is better than many Sanyasis like us. So far I am concerned, I could not live like Bhaktivinode Thakur because I was disgusted with my family members and I was obliged to give up my family life. But Krishna is so kind that although I left my few children born out of this physical body, Krishna has sent many nice beauti- ful obedient children for propagating my mission. And you are one of them. So I am very much obliged to you. The best thing that you are doing, that you are training our grand-child, Mr. Eric. I always see that he is always with youand from very childhood, he is getting the Krishna Consciousness ideas, and similar opportunity was for me when I was a little boy, like your child. My father also trained me and instructed me to his best capacity, and he prayed for me that Radharani may be pleased upon me, and I think by my father’s blessings and grace, I may have come to this position, and I might have gotten into relationship with His Divine Grace, Om Vishnupad Sri Sri- mad Bhakti Siddhanta Saraswati Go- swami Maharaj. So it is also Krishna’s Grace that I got good father, and a good Spiritual Master, and in my old age also, Krishna has favored me with so many good children. So when I feel I see that Krishna is so kind upon me, so I offer my obligations unto Him. I shall be glad to receive a copy of the pictures taken by Joey, as you describe it has come so successful. From the pictures of our Buffalo cen- ter, it appears it is very nice cottage and I think it is quite suitable for our purpose. Regarding your question: “‘about the six-armed Lord Chaitanya you gave me (Krishna, Lord Chaitanya, and Lord Rama combined.) Why is Lord Chaitanya carrying a forked stick? What do the Shaivite-like teloks on His arms signify? And to whom was this form revealed?” The forked stick is a symbol of ekadandi. The mayavadi sanyasis, they carry eka- danda, one stick. As we Vaishnav sanyasis carry 3 danda, or three sticks, combined together. The one stick is the symbol of understanding oneness. The monists only accept chin matra, there is only one spirit soul; they do not understand the varieties of the spiritual world. And so far our three sticks are concerned, we take it for granted that we have dedicated our life, for Krishna’s service in 3 ways, namely, in our body, in our mind, and in our words. Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur has sung in a poetry that my mind, my body, and my home is surrendered unto You. So a Grihastha or householder like you, you are also tridandi. Because you have sacri- ficed everything, your life, your home, and your child, so you are a tridandi san- yasi, in fact. So continue this attitude seri- ously and sincerely, so you will be also as good as a sanyasi even though you are in the dress of a Grihastha. The Shaivite AUGUST, 1968 503 _— telok is three pundra, 3 lines, on the forehead, in 3 parallel lines. Our telok udra pundra, they are distinctive marks of different sections. There are two sec- tions of the Vedic followers. Namely, the impersonalists and personalists. So the telok distinguishes one from the im- personalists. Our undra pundra, Vishnu temple, udra pundra means Vishnu tem- ple, so we are distinguished from the mayavadis who use the three parallel lines, tripundra. Regarding my going to Buffalo: It may be postponed for the time being. You will be glad to know that I am proceeding to New York tomorrow evening, at 4:30, and reaching there at 5:50. I wish to remain at least for a week in New York, and then start for San Francisco. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-36 Montreal 30th August, 1968 My Dear Shama dasi Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your kind letter dated August 27, 1968, and I am glad to hear about successful Samkirtan party’s activi- ties in Los Angeles. You will be glad to know that very soon I am going to San Francisco, maybe by the end of the first week of September. The nice sentiments expressed in your letter under reply is very much pleasing to me. When I initiated you, I accepted on that very moment as my daughter. So you are eternally my daughter and I am your father. There is no doubt about it. And our relationship is based on Krishna Con- sciousness, so the more successful you preach and help Krishna Consciousness movement, the more our relationship in transcendental platform is firm and fixed up. Our business is to chant and glorify the Holy Name of Krishna and wherever we may remain, Krishna is with us, Krishna is within your heart, Krishna is within my heart. So, spiritually there is no question of separation, even physically we may be in far distant place. So I am very glad that you are taking more and more in- terest in this movement, and I pray to Krishna that you be fixed up in that posi- tion, eternally. Thank you very much for your letter, hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-8-37 New York 31st August, 1968 My Dear Krishna Das, Please accept by blessings. I beg to ac- knowledge receipt of your letter of 8.25.68 and I am so pleased to look in you a Divine Spirit for preaching the K.C. movement. It is very welcome. So if you go to Germany and join Shivananda there who is already there, you can immedi- ately open correspondence with him, his address being as follows. If you can actually open a nice centre there it will be a great service to Lord Krishna. So you can make your solid plan in this connection & I am coming to San Francisco by the Ist week of September. This afternoon I am going to New York and I may stay there for one week & then start for San Francisco when I may talk further on this subject. I understand your birth day is on the 26th September and I offer my blessings on this occasion. When I go to San Fran- cisco, I shall give you the required letters. Just now I do not remember the body of the letter given to Upendra but I shall compose it again don’t worry. Your sister Srimati Saradia has gone to 504 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Boston. She is as nice as her nice brothers and she has expressed her desire to marry a nice boy. I agree with her proposal but I have asked her to wait for another year as she is too young. When you start for Germany you must go there fully equipped with Mridangas and other instruments. More when we meet. Hope you are well. Your ever well wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. While I was to post this letter I have got a letter from Shivananda and his ad- dress is as follows: Open correspondence immediately and do the needful. Samuel Greer Jugenher bergen Kluckstrasse 3 W. Berlin, Germany. I am enclosing here with the letter which I have received from. Please keep this letter carefully and return me when I go to San Francisco. ACB 68-8-38 Montreal 31st August, 1968 West Berlin My dear Shivananda, Please accepting my blessings and those of Lord Krishna. I am sure Krishna is protecting you and your sincerity of ser- vice will bring Krishna and more and more near to you. So have faith in Him and surely you will be successful in open- ing branch in W. Berlin. Indications of Krishna’s help are very much hopeful. I am going to-day to New York and af- ter one week I shall start for San Fran- cisco. Some San Francisco boys who know German language are eager to help you and join you with Mirdanga etc. Please let me know your opinion on this matter. They can start immediately and they have little money also. I have given him the address and most probably he will write you. His name is Krishnadas Brahmachary c/o San Francisco Temple 518 Frederick St. San Francisco, Cal 90117. I see in your letter every thing very fa- vorable and it seems that I will have to go first in Berlin then in London. Anyway just depend on Krishna and he will do ev- erything in order. Hope this will find you in good health. Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Other devotees from San Francisco have already started for London. Mukun- da’s address as follows Michael Grant c/o American Express Co. Haymarket St. London. U.K. I hope you have also received my former letter addressed to you c/o American Express Berlin. ACB SEPTEMBER 68-9-1 New York City 3rd September, 1968 Sri Krishna Prasad Bhargava G. G. Industries Agra, India My Dear Sri Krishna Prasadji, Please accept my greetings. Since a very long time I did not hear from you, and I hope everything is going well there. The Society is so obliged to you for send- ing us the two Sri Murtis Who are being regularly worshipped by the devotees here, and they very much appreciate the attractive feature of these Murtis. You will be glad to know also that in the meantime, we have established eleven centers, as fol- lows; in these various cities: New York; San Francisco; Buffalo; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Montreal, Canada; Los Angeles; London, England; West Berlin, Ger- many; and Seattle, Washington; and Van- couver, British Columbia. And by the Grace of Krishna we may be able to estab- lish more centers in the very near future. I do not know where from you secured these nice Murtis, but I would like to have such Murtis at least 20 pairs, with height of not less than 24 inches. So if you kindly give me the quotation for such Murtis from the manufacturer where from you secured these Murtis, I shall arrange to send you the required money, either di- rectly or by negotiation through some friends in India. It is my ambition that In- dian Vaishnavas may contribute at least One pair of Murtis, following your nice example, and we can establish them in each andeverycenter of our Society. If we do not find such persons to contribute such Murtis, then the Society can arrange to send you the required money. It is not that the Society cannot pay for the Murtis, but it is my desire that Indian Vaishnavas should be energetic in cooper- ating with this Krishna Consciousness movement in the Western countries. I am already in correspondence with some friends in India, and they may be agree- able to contribute one pair, each of them, so in the meantime, if you kindly give me the exact price for similar Murtis (only with greater height, of at least 24 inches), I will appreciate this very much. On the 8th instant, I am going to San Francisco, and I will be glad to receive your favorable reply to my San Francisco address, as follows: ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE; 518 Frederick Street; San Francisco, California; 94117. Thope this will find you in good health, and thanking you in anticipation. Yours very sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Montreal 4th September, 1968 68-9-2 Vancouver My Dear Anapurna and Ananda das, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your two long letters, when I was in Montreal; since then I have come to New York on the 31st of August 1968, on my way to San Francisco. I shall go to San 506 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Francisco on the 8th instant, and I shall see what is the situation there, then I shall proceed to Seattle, and from Seattle, I may go to Vancouver. So far your marriage is concerned, I am very sorry that Ananda’s parents are not willing in this marriage ceremony; now it is up to you for deciding whether you should get married or not. But I think you should, under the circumstances, the best thing will be that you get yourself married legally, according to the state laws and get a certificate and I think, Ananda, you should try to remain in Van- couver, and work. And by your labor you try to open a branch in Vancouver, and that will be very nice thing. And when I go to Vancouver, from Seattle, I shall offer my blessings in observing the rituals of our marriage system. I shall give you one engagement and if you secure one dictaphone then I shall send you regular tapes for transcribing it into English version, and you will make two copies. One copy shall be sent to me, another copy shall be sent to Hayagriva Brahmachary. As Govinda dasi and her husband, is trying to help me in compiling essays and texts of Chaitanya Chari- tamrita, similarly, I shall give you a task for the Science of Devotion. So that will be nice duty for you, because both of you are well versed in typewriting, so you can do that. At the same time, if you organize a center in Vancouver, simply by chant- ing. It is not very difficult to open a center for our activities. You can remain in any apartment as husband and wife, and invite persons there to hear your chanting and topics, that is our center, and let it be gradually improved. I think this program will be very much suitable for you at the present moment. As for your going to London, I do not think it is required. Because as Ananda’s parents have not approved of this mar- riage, it may be that Anapurna’s father may also not like such combination. So in your country generally the boy and the girl picks their own consort, so if you have decided to get yourself married, then without any consent from your respective parents, you can get yourself married. But Anapurna’s father is very much anxious to see Anapurna, so under the circum- stances, if you want to go there, then I have no objection. And I am also going there very soon, because I have received letter from Malati, that they have already entered England, and they have got 6 month visa. So it may be that I shall be go- ing there very soon, but the fact is that when you have decided to get yourself married, I think without the formalities of taking consent from your parents, you can get yourself married legally. And be es- tablished as husband and wife anywhere, wherever you like, it doesn’t matter. So far your desire, especially Ana- purna’s desire, to live wherever I go, I may inform you that I am a Sannyasi, and there is no fixity where I go. Under the circumstances, if you establish yourself in one place, and engross yourself in tran- scribing the tapes, so that a nice book will come out in due course of time, that will be a great service for the society, and to me also. You can reply this letter to San Francisco address, because I am going there on the 8th. Another thing, you may inquire if there is any American Consu- late office in Vancouver. If there is, please let me know the address also. The conclusion is that in my opinion, both of you should legally be married, and Ananda may work to maintain the center in Vancouver. That is my desire. And Anapurna may go on with the typewriting business. If this does not suit someway or other, then we shall later on discuss what to be done. Hope you are both well, Yours ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami SEPTEMBER, 1968 507 68-9-3 7th September, 1968 ALL GLORIES TO SRI GURU AND GOURANGA MEMO TO ALL DEVOTEES RE: NEW VRINDABAN I have just returned from a two days stay at our newest center New Vrindaban in Moundsville, West Virginia, near Wheeling. This New Vrindaban is under the direction of Sriman Hayagriva and Kirtanananda Maharaj and promises to be a great step forward for Krishna Con- sciousness in America. It has a farmhouse and several other structures, well, streams, hills (govar- darn, as named by Swamiji) pasture grounds (a cow will be acquired soon), ghat, pond, woodland, all situated on 138 acres. Prabhupada has requested that 7 tem- ples be established there. Its main activity will be cow protection and to show the world that simply by living with cows and land and chanting HARE KRISHNA a perfect society will prevail. A great deal of work is required and Swamiji has requested at least four devo- tees to go there immediately. New Vrin- daban lacks so-called necessities as hot running water and toilets, so that only stout and sturdy devotees are needed, es- pecially those with carpentry experience and can do manual labor. New Vrindaban will be especially at- tractive to householders who will want to raise their children in full K.C. So, all devotees who are interested in living in New Vrindaban, either immedi- ately or in the near future should please contact me. Those with carpentry experi- ence should especially do so. Approved... A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Approved... Kirtanananda Swami Approved... Signed... Brahmananda das Brahmachary 68-9-4 New York 7th September, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated September 1, 1968, and I am glad that you are getting some encouragement in Berlin. I request you not to leave Berlin. I request that you please try to establish a center there at any cost. In your last letter you informed me that there is good chance of your getting work ona salary of $600.00. So if you can get such job, or any job, somehow or other, you can simply maintain an apart- ment and sit down there and chant Hare Krishna. I do not want immediately a very large storefront or anything like that. I simply want that a center may immedi- ately be started in Berlin and gradually we will try to develop it. In my last letter I have already informed you that some of the San Francisco boys are ready to go and join you. If required I shall ask Achyuta- nanda to join you from India. So that way you can have several assistants to perform kirtan, and that will be our success. I also had a letter from the Finnish boy sent by you and it appears that he is enthu- siastic. So you can also get some coopera- tion. On the whole, it is my desire that you establish one center immediately in Berlin. Don’t go elsewhere for the present. Later one we can try to open cen- ters in Zurich or Amsterdam or Stock- holm as Krishna will desire. You will be pleased to know that Shyamsundar with wife and child has already entered London with 6 month visa, and is to be followed by 508 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Mukunda and others, very soon. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. I am going tomorrow to San Fran- cisco, and you can reply this letter there, at 518 Frederick Street, San Francisco, Cal. 94117. I have received one letter from Shyamsundar, has arrived in Lon- don, and his address is 80 Herne Hill, London S.E. 24, England. (send c/o Samuel Speerstra) You can correspond with your Godbrothers there. 68-9-5 9th September, 1968 My Dear Subal, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 1, 1968, and I am so glad to learn that you have got permission to chant in the park. Previously you sent me the press clippings, and I have seen that so there was some difficulty, now by Krishna’s Grace, you have got permission Do not mind that the park is not visited by many people. But, if you chant many people will come. That will make your attempt successful. You will be glad to know that just yesterday I have arrived in San Fran- cisco, and if you so desire, then I may go for a day or two to Santa Fe, but it will be very much expensive. Because I cannot stay more than three or four days there. Do you think that for three or four days you shall invite me, and spend so much money while you are hard up? So think over, but if you desire I can go there. The San Francisco Samkirtan Party is doing very wonderful work, and I under- stand they are collecting also very nicely. And I have come here that a permanent Sankirtan Party may travel all over the country. Let me see what happens. Here the Indians who have come from the Guzrata province, they are generally devo- tees of Lord Krishna. They are offering their willing cooperation. Especially I have come for this purpose, how to engage them in Krishna Consciousness. Hope this finds you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, ACB 68-9-6 San Francisco 9th September, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated August 30, 1968, and noted the contents carefully. I have already written one letter to Valaram, as you gave me his address. Regarding Barry Major, I think I have al- ready replied his letter from New York, and I am asking him to see me in San Francisco. You will be glad to know that just yesterday I have come to San Fran- cisco, at 3:00 local time yesterday after- noon. And here the Indians are very willing to cooperate with our temple ac- tivities. Regarding minor boys who want to be trained by us; as Brahmachary. It is a very nice opportunity to train such young boys, but there legal implication. Now, our society is a registered, recognized re- ligious society. So we can consult some lawyer whether such religious institution where we are teaching specifically how to become moral in character. We are teach- ing them prohibition of 4 principle sinful activities, and we are teaching them God consciousness. Whether we can teach such minor boys as Brahmacharies and training them. I am very sorry that these people do not want to see their sons de- velop high character and knowledge in God conciousness, but they want to push them in the stereotyped way of materialis- tic life. But even we are prepared to help them, if the legal implications are there, SEPTEMBER, 1968 509 what can we do? You can however encour- age the boy as he is making progress, but he may have to wait for initiation because he is not still habituated to give up meat- eating. Any person trying to serve Krishna sincerely, certainly Krishna will give him all opportunity to overcome the difficulties. This time, Back To Godhead is very nicely printed. Perhaps they will send you copies as usual. But in San Francisco we have brought some copies. You can inform Nandarani about her letter which she addressed me in Mon- treal, and I received that letter, redirected fromthere. And I shall reply her in detail. In the meantime, I have requested Gour- sundar and his wife to go to Florida, as suggested by Nandarani, if they are able. If not, I shall try some other boys to go there, as we must have a center at Florida. That is my great desire. In the meantime, I have received letter from Shyamsundar in London, and the prospects are very hopeful to open a cen- ter there. Similarly, we are getting good reports from Seattle where Gargamuni has gone, and my next program is to go to Seattle from San Francisco. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-7 San Francisco 9th September, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. And I hope by this time you have reached your headquarters, at Wheeling, and I hope you are feeling well. And you have taken the dictaphone. Now immediate task is that you revise the 1st, 2nd, 3rd volumes of Srimad Bhagavatam. As soon as they are revised, we shall immediately print in one volume. Just we are going to print, volume one means canto one. So then you take up the second part, second canto, and keep along with you Pradyumna; he will help you in marking diacritic signs on the original verses, and be always in corre- spondence with me. And be seriously en- gaged in this task, and it will be a great service to Krishna. And try to finish the last act of Chaitanya Charitamrita also. So far your opening a center, in the Co- lumbus University, that is also very nice idea. The three days you will be there must be utilized in propagating our Krishna Consciousness amongst the stu- dents, and I think in charge of that center, Pradyumna may be left so that when you are there, he will work with you. And when you are not there, he will take care of the center. I think you will like this idea. In this way, Kirtanananda may deve- lope New Vrindaban. He will have a nice assistant, Bamandey, and Hrishikesh, and I think everything will come out very suc- cessful without delay. Krishna is giving you intelligence and bestowing His Mercy upon you; continue this attitude, when- ever you feel some difficulty, chant Hare Krishna. Pray to Krishna to help you, and there will be no difficulty. Be rest assured. T hope this will find you in good health and cheerfulness. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-8 San Francisco 9th September, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. We have safely reached yesterday after noon at 3:00 and there was grand reception, ar- ranged by Jayananda, and Patty. Many In- dians were present, and I was very much pleased to see the activities of San Fran- cisco devotees. They are doing very well. 510 Letters from Srila Prabhupada In the evening, some ofthe respectable In- dian gentlemen came to see me, and they have offered one silver Murti of Krishna, to be installed today. So this evening, I am going to install that Deity, as well as initi- ate some of the newcomers devotees, as well as offer the sacred thread to Jaya- nanda, Tamal Krishna, and like that, old students. So far our San Francisco busi- ness is concerned, they are doing very nicely. I understand Tamal Krishna has collected $1,500 in two months. And peo- ple are gradually taking interest in the Samkirtan. They are selling Back To Godhead also, and the whole situation ap- pears to be all Krishna’s Mercy. And you may convey my many many thanks to Raya- rama for his nice article, ‘‘Evolution—the God that’s failing.”’ We should write simi- lar articles in Back To Godhead. It is very very instructive, and it has appealed not only to me, but to many others. In the air- plane, some of the passengers were read- ing that article with great interest. So I think Krishna is giving very good intelli- gence to Rayarama. Let him be seriously engaged in improving the shape and quality of Back To Godhead, and I am sure in future we will have as good a posi- tion as the other mundane magazines, like Life, Time, Etc. It is very good. So far the press is concerned, let the boys, Advaita and , learn it very nicely, and it is now settled. As soon as they think they will be able to conduct the press, we immediately . So far you are concerned, you have to see about the wide circulation. Yourself and your good borther, Garga- muni, shall be in charge for distribution. Now immediately, we are getting about $30,000 worth of books from Japan, and in from India, you have got Srimad Bha- gavatam also, so that is also over two thou- sand dollars. So if you can transform this money into chash, then we can start a well equipped press. And I hope you will do it. I am contemplating also to publish one book, Krishna in picture. One boy, his name is Mark, he is very good artist. I have given him some ideas of drawing some pictures about Krishna from Srimad Bhagavatam. And if I see he is successful, which I hope he will, be then we shall print to many books of pictures. The pic- ture books will be most appealing. We shall give stress on this point. Regarding records: You must take quo- tation from different record manufactur- ing company, or from the same company immediately, from whom you took our Hare Krishna record. We shall ourselves issue so many records. And so far this rec- ord is concerned, in a suitable moment you can talk with Mr. Kallman that Swamiji was telling that he has not re- ceived any royalty of 5%. The agreement is there; you can see. So he must pay. But if he does not pay we don’t mind; we shall issue our own records and try to sell. But you can speak with him, that Swamiji is speaking like that. At least, he must give us the concession that whenever we shall require the records, he must give us at cost price. So far you have already paid him $500.00 for one thousand records. You must take delivery of them and send them to India. There to JayaGovinda. Be- cause you cannot get the money to keep this man as our friend without any distur- bance and settle up things peacefully. You will be pleased to know that this morning I experimented with my harmo- nium, and of course, it is just an experi- ment, still all the girls present here and Tamal Krishna also, they liked the tune very much. Maybe such Samkirtan solo singing; I can give so many. I can give so many verses, just like Chintamani Pra- kara Sadmasu . . . and explain them in English, so we can produce not only pic- tures, but also records, in so many ways. So you should be serious about taking quotation of the records as soon as SEPTEMBER, 1968 511 possible and immediately we shall print some records. So far I know, that the rec- ords, small records, as Gargamuni told me, it does not cost mor than 10 cents. But this big record will not cost more than 50 cents, including everything, I am sure. Anyway, you seriously take quotations about the album, aboutprinting, and just see what will be the cost. Then we shall immediately invest some money from the book fund, to print our second and third record. I hope you have already talked with Montreal, to Hansadutta, or Janardan, about the money dispatched from the Ca- nadian National Bank to London. It is very important. They are in the foreign countreis; if they donot recieve the money at time, how much difficulty they are in?! So the Montreal representative must im- mediately finalize what happened. And let them drop a letter to me what has hap- pened. I am very much anxious about it. I hope this will find you in good cheer- ful health, and activity, and you will have always Krishna’s blessings upon you. Go on straight. Our Krishna Consciousness movement must be successful in the west- ern world. Your ever well-wisher, 68-9-9 San Francisco 9th September, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings, and I hope you are doing well there. And Himavati is helping you very nicely. You will be pleased to know that here the Samkirtan party, led by Tamal Krishna, is doing very Nicely. I understand that within two months they have collected $1500.00, and people are taking this Krishna Conscious- ness Kirtan verynicely. They go every day to the business quarter and the respectable Persons they are appreciating that they are very sincere and pure. So it is very en- couraging. I think similar things you can organize in Montreal. We have to improve so many things. Hope this will find you in good health and cheerfulness. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. If my stationery has gone there please redirect them here. 68-9-10 San Francisco 9th September, 1968 My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings, and I hope you are all doing well in Montreal. And I may inform you that immediately you be- gin translation work of our Srimad Bha- gavatam in French, as well as Bhagavad Gita as it is, in French, and begin our Back To Godhead in French language printed in the mimeograph machine. So you have got enough engagement; you may not take trouble of attempting Srimad Bhagavatam. I think this will be done by Hayagriva. You take up the responsibility of translating them into French, and as soon as our press is started, that means Advaita and Uddhava are expert in print- ing matters, we start our press, and we shall print the French books, the English books, and as many publications as are possible, we shall do. But I hope in the meantime you have talked with Brahm- ananda that one remittance, $1,655.00, was advised to be dispatched to London. But I have received letter from Shyamsun- dar that he has not received the money. Kindly go to my bank and my account number, V269 A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, and you see the manager, why he has not remitted the money. Because the people are in a foreign country, and with- out money they will be in much difficulty. Kindly do the needful. 512 Letters from Srila Prabhupada You will be pleased to know that I had no difficulty entering USA, with the Ca- nadian immigration card. First of all, they wanted from me to see my visa, I told that I am Canadian immigrant. Then he said, oh yes, that’s all right. So what for you are going; to visit there. How many months you want to remain there? I said about 4 or 5 months. So they did not make any etch in my passport. So I think even if I am not able to get the American visa, there will be no difficulty for my coming and going. Anyway, let us depend on Krishna. So Hansadutta is there, the Kirtan party is there; please try to organize your center nicely. And I am also enclosing herewith one letter for Hansadutta. Hope this will find you in good health and cheerfulness. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-11 San Francisco 11th September, 1968 My Dear Shama dasi, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you for your letter dated Sept. 10, 1968, and your nice presentations, which Ihave so gladly accepted. In the Vedas it is stated that simply by understanding Krishna, one understands everything. This means there are two departmental educational policy; one departmental education is spiritual education, and the other departmental educational system is material education. One who is highly ele- vated in material education, cannot un- derstand about anything spiritual. But one who is elevated highly in his spiritual edu- cation can understand anything material. In other words, all material things are de- pendent on the spiritual soul. Just like your body, my body, this material body, they have developed on the basis of the spirit soul. Therefore, Krishna being the Supreme Spirit, one who tries to under- stand Krishna, he can understand every- thing else. From your statement of the letter under reply, I can understand that by the Grace of Krishna, you are improving in Krishna Consciousness. And if you continue to keep up your attitude in this spirit, surely in this very life, you will be successful to reach the perfectional stages. It is my duty to open your eyes, be- cause a Spiritual Master is he who can save his disciples from the darkness of ne- science, illusion. So I am trying my best to do my duty, and if you cooperate with me, fully, certainly both yourself and my- self will be successful in our missionary work. You will note that the piece of paper which I have given you last night about the mantras, the third mantra should be recti- fied as follows: Instead of DHIYO YO NAH PRACHODAYAT, it sould be TANNA GURO PRACHODAYAT. The DHIYO YO NAH should be replaced by the words, TANNA GURO. Please note this. Thanking you very much for your nice mango, and I beg to remain Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-12 18th September, 1968 My dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 11 Sept. 1968. And I am so pleased to hear of your Kirtan in Trafalgar Square and Hyde Park Corner, and at the Hindu Center. This is giving me so much pleaure to hear how nicely you are carrying on this movement in London. It was originally my Guru Ma- haraj’s desire that there should be a center established in London, and by His Mercy, now you have successfully begun this mis- sion; so please keep me informed how you SEPTEMBER, 1968 513 are progressing there. I am very anxious to hear in each letter. I hope you are well, and convey my blessings to your good husband and little child, Miss Saraswati devi. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 13th Sept., and I am so glad to learn that you are ac- tive in preaching Krishna Consciousness in London. You all 3 couples are expert in the matter of preaching Krishna Con- sciousness, and your last effort in the mat- ter of performing Ratha Yatra festival was so successful. So I am sure by your com- bined effort in London, there will be a great successful center. I am so pleased to learn about your staunch faith in Krishna and your Spiritual Master. May Krishna bless you more and more in the matter of advancement of Krishna Consciousness. Hope you are well, and please convey my blessings to your good wife, Yamuna devi. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-13 San Francisco 14th September, 1968 West Berlin My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Septem- ber 5, 1968, and I am so pleased to learn that you are feeling well, and you have de- cided to stay therein Berlin and open a temple. It is so much pleasing to me. You also write to say that you do not believe money will be any problem there. In the last line of your letter you say that you wish to write me very soon to tell me that the Berlin branch of ISKCON has been opened. This is very nice. May Krishna bless you with all His blessings and be successful in your very noble enterprise. In the meantime, I have just talked with Krishna das and the German boy, Ut- tama Sloka das, and they are prepared to join you by the end of this month. Sriman Uttama Sloka is already initiated, and he is a German scholar also. He has shown me his translation work on my essays in English, and it appears that he will be a great help in the Berlin center. I am trying to inject in him the basic ideals of Krishna Consciousness philosophy and this morn- ing we had one nice discussion. So the Berlin temple will be one of the most im- portant centers in Europe, and I hope that in the future we will be able to train many Germans who are very intelligent person- alities in the European countries. You know that I have got already one German God-brother, and he has influenced an- other German scholar, Bamandas, who has written a very nice book on Lord Chaitanya, in German. So in that great country, people are very much interested with India’s original spiritual and cultural life, and Krishna Consciousness is the most perfect order of such cultural under- standing in India. Lord Chaitanya is the symbol of India’s original culture, and perfect Scholar for exposition of India’s philosophical thoughts, based on the Vedic knowledge. I hope our books, Bha- gavad Gita, as it is; Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and Srimad Bhagavatam will in the near future be translated into Ger- man language and distributed to the noble nation of Germany. You may not think for the time being of any other branch, at least for the coming one year. And as soon as Krishna das and Uttama Sloka go there, please make combined effort to popular- ize this Krishna Consciousness movement in that country. They will take with them a mridanga drum. And I understand that in 514 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda Germany they make very nice harmoni- ums. Please take information of them and let me know immediately, otherwise, Krishna das will take a harmonium from here, along with mridanga. This Krishna Consciousness movement through music, philosophy, spiritual culture, and per- sonal behavior culminating in ideal char- acter of the devotees. All these heavenly contributions combined together will cer- tainly bring about a major change in the life of Western people. You will be glad to know that the 6 devo- tees who started for London by the end of August, 1968, have already met together in London and their address is as follows: Michael Grant, 80 Herne Hill, London S.E. 24, England. They are also very much hopeful for the Indian cooperation whose number there is not less than 200,000 to 500,000 Indians. So I shall start for Europe, either for Berlin or for London as I may be required by the devo- tees there. And I shall be glad if you be in regular touch with me at least once in a week, by writing me letters. Thanking you once more and I am praying to Krishna to offer you all His strength, in the discharge of His noble service. Hope you are well, Your ever wellwisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-14 San Francisco 14th September, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter dated Sept. 9, 1968, and I have noted the contents care- fully. Previously I received one letter from Shyamsundar as well as from Guru- das. I have replied Shyamsundar’s letter already and I am subjoining herewith also the reply to Gurudas. I know in London there are many Indi- ans settled as residents. And most of them own their own house also. Sometimes back when I was in Vrindaban, wehad talk with Bon Maharaj and he gave me the idea that in London the Indians want some nice temple. So if you can establish one nice temple of Radha Krishna with the coop- eration of the Indians, I think there is great possibility for this purpose. I am confident that you will be able to do this because in the beginning of my starting this International Society, you helped me in so many ways. The San Francisco cen- ter was also established by your endeavor and cooperation by Shyamsundar, and now both of you are in London, so I am sure the London center will certainly be established. Annapurna’s father, Mr. Webb, told me that there are many old churches which are not being properly used. So if you can secure one big church, that will be very nice. I am glad to learn that in London there are 2 to 5 lacs of Indians. And if they cooperate with you, we can maintain a very big establishment. If they contribute one pound per annum per head, that means a lot of money. And tem- ple organization is the best means to at- tract devotees. Temple organization means decorating the Deities very nicely, with flowers, lights, dress, decoration, offering nice foodstuff in good silver plates, five times arotik, with Kirtan, and lecturing. So you have got all these ideas, and you are six there. If you strictly follow the rules and regulations and become American priests, of the temple, so the In- dian hindus will be surprised and cer- tainly they will be attracted. Just like the hindus in San Francisco are being gradu- ally attracted due to our nice temple ar- rangement here. They will hold a meeting here with me tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. to consider how to improve the temple. One of the Guzrati devotees has contributed a SEPTEMBER, 1968 515 silver Vigraha of Krishna, and has do- nated $51.00. I came here to San Fran- cisco last Sunday, the 8th, and there was a nice function of installing the Deity in the temple throne, and initiation of several newcomers devotees. I thought that Chid- ananda could go to Australia, but that idea has not been successful because the man in charge is an atheist, and as he scented that Chidananda is going to establish a center of Hare Krishna, he has withdrawn his cooperation and proved that his country is very unfortunate. So I am asking Goursundar to go to Hawaii or Florida. Gargamuni has already started one center at Seattle and Ananda Brahma- chary from Montreal has gone to Vancou- ver. And New Vrindaban is being taken care of by several devotees. I hope that the money which I sent from Montreal to the Charter Bank in ac- count of Samuel Speerstra has already been received by him. I shall be glad to hear on this point. So the $1,655.00 and further $600.00 contributed by me and Hansadutta may be conveniently depos- ited in London in the branch of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. And open an account in my name. And send the passbook to me so that when I shall go to London there will be no difficulty there for me. I hope this will find you in good health, and offer my blessings to Janaki. Please keep me informed at least once ina week. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Guru das, Please accept my blessings. I was in due receipt of your letter dated Sept. 3, 1968, and now I have received letter from Mukunda, and I am pleased to learn that you are now together, all six. So please try to start the temple as soon as possible and call me for your service. Offer my bless- ings to Yamuna as well as to Malati and her husand and the little child. I have sent one newspaper cutting to Shyamsundar; that is a very nice article, if you get it pho- tostated, you can use it for propaganda work. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-15 15th September, 1968 My dear Achyutananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your note along with Jaya Govinda’s. The Bengali which you’ve written are simply nonsense. They are full of mistakes. And each and every word is misspelled. Just like you have written, “Bhutale’”’ as ‘‘Bhuthale.” Is is not very much encouraging. Neither it is good that you do something wrong and at the end you simply write please forgive us. The best thing will be that both of may go to Bombay and begin a positive work under my direction. Don’t be carried away by whims, and waste time and money. As there is no possibility of printing in Delhi, you kindly pack up the manuscript and send it to New York. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, 68-9-16 15th September, 1968 My dear Parvat Maharaj, Please accept my respectful obei- sances. Sometime back, I wrote you one letter but I did not receive any reply. I am very much obliged to you that you have proposed to help Jaya Govinda about his visa trouble. But I don’t know why you make such condition that he has to remain with you so long he is in India. He has to work for the society freely and sometimes 516 Letters from Srila Prabhupada he might have to go to Bombay or other cities, so how he can be confined to a place? If you can help him without any condition, it will be a great favor to me. I hope this finds you in good health, Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-17 San Francisco 15th September, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 9th Sep- tember 1968, and have noted the contents carefully. And specifically about the busi- ness transaction of Messrs. MacMillan through Mr. Wade. Now, after reading your letter under reply very carefully, I have decided to take 5000 copies from them, provided they give us 50%, not 47%. Then we shall take delivery of the books in three installments; first, two thousand copies; second, two thousand copies; and, again, one thousand copies. And as promised by them, they must give us 60 days sight for payment for each con- signment. And we shall give them bank reference. I think this will be nice ar- rangement. The distribution arrangement should be like this: That as soon as you get the first two thousand copies, you distribute to all the centers, according to the ca- pacity, and I think the first distribution can be made like this: 500 copies to San Francisco, 500 copies to New York, and balance 1000 copies to different centers. We have got now about 14 centers: New York, San Francisco, Boston, Buffalo, Montreal, Santa Fe, Los Angeles, Lon- don, Berlin, Hawaii, and Florida, Seattle, and New Vrindaban. So if you distribute our books in that way, they can sell retail. I am sending Goursundar to Hawaii, and probably I shall send Chidananda to Florida. And I have received letter from Shivananda that in Germany, there is good prospect, and he is already trying to rent one very nice storefront, 300 marks rent per month. And two boys, Krishna das, and Uttama Sloka (a German boy) are go- ing there very soon. So of course we do not expect to sell English books in Ger- many very much, but maybe somebody will be interested. But in England we can sell some books. So in this way, try to dis- tribute and let us risk. But they must give us 60 days sight, and we shall take deliv- ery 5000 copies in three installments. And they must allow us 50%, discount, not 47 %. On these conditions you accept. And bank reference I shall give. Regarding Mr. Wade’s promise to Goursundar, to pay $225-$250, they must keep their promise. Otherwise, it will be not possible to do business with them, if they change their word of honor. You must say Mr. Wade like that. In business princi- ple, what is promised, that must be kept. If the promise is not kept, then we are not going to deal with them, with such busi- ness firm, even it may be very big. That should be our principle also. So I think on this principle we can arrange with them, and I shall give you bank reference when ‘ they require. We shall not sell a single copy to the store. Our principle should be to sell books retail in the Kirtan, in our temple, or selling by going door to door, or, indi- vidual persons. Not a single book should be sold to the stores. The store selling they may organize: we don’t mind. Regarding my Deity worship: I can un- derstand that the regulative principles are taking much of your time, but you can min- imize according to your convenience. There is no harm. But I am so glad to learn that this engagement makes one developing the Brahminical qualities. I thank you very much for appreciating this secret of wor- shipping the Lord. Generally, we in the SEPTEMBER, 1968 517 conditioned state, we are contaminated. But, this worshipping system called ‘‘Ar- chan vidhi” cleanses the polluted heart and one becomes actually fit for becoming qualified Brahmin. So at least you be en- gaged in that way. Where is that boy Jaya Rama, who was taking care of It? So one by one, one should be engaged in that “Ar- chan vidhi” so that one may be fixed up in his Brahminical qualification. Regarding Jaya Govinda’s letter: You can reply that they can remain in India, on the following condition: That they must sell [PAGE MISSING] last evening, and also last evening the thread ceremony was observed and many students given the sacred thread, and some were initiated. This morning I have to go to one meeting amongst the Indians and let me see how I can talk with them. As far as I can guess, that I may be called directly from San Francisco to Europe. In that case, it may be possible that I may stop for a day or two in New York, and then I start for Europe. What about the Un office. Ask Purushotam and let me know in detail what is the situation. Hope this will cover all your enquires and you will do the needful. By the by, I am inquiring that you know two addresses in Hawaii, one university professor, and another gentleman who came to our tem- ple and took records. So if you send the addresses to Goursundar immediately, ei- ther by letter or by phone, then he can uti- lize theri friendly connection. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-18 15th September, 1968 Dear Jaya Govinda: Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Sept. 9. Previous to this I received one letter dated in Sept. The problem is that Rs. 2000/- lie inthe hand of Hitsaranji, and I don’t think I'll receive back this money very soon. Therefore, your staying in Delhi has no use for me. So far your studying Bengali and Hindi, it is not at all important for the society. If you want to satisfy your whims, that is a different thing. Even if you study Hindi and Bengali so late in your life, I don’t think you can become a very good scholar in those languages. So for study- ing Bengali and Hindi you needn’t stay in Delhi. You can do some work in India on behalf me definitely by selling our maga- zines and our published books in India, and in noother way. The books and maga- zines will be sent you in India for selling and you can send in exchange Sri Murtis or musical instruments. And for all these activities, Bombay will be the best place for your staying. There is already a friend in Bombay who is inviting you to stay with him, so why don’t you take advantage of this opportunity? I have already advised Brahmanda to send you the letter of guar- antee so you will have it from him in due course, or by the time this letter reaches you. In the meantime, I hope you might have received the six month extension resi- dential permit. But you must prepare for going to Bombay. I am giving herewith one note to Parvat Maharaj which you will please show him. You will be pleased to learn that Shivananda from Montreal has gone to Berlin for opening center there. Mukunda has gone along with Gurudas and Shyam- sundar and their wives to London, to open acenter there. Goursundar is going to Ha- waii for opening a center there. Garga- muni has already opened a grand center in Seattle. Similarly, Annapurna and Ananda are going to open a center in Van- couver, and you know also that Hayagriva and Kirtananda, with the help of several other devotees are developing New Vrin- daban in 138 acres of land in West Va. 518 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Also, Dinesh and Krishna devi are going to Florida. In Florida we have 10 acres of land arranged by Dayananda and Nan- darani. So all my disciples here are doing marvelously in spreading Krishna Con- sciousness. In San Francisco, Jayananda arranged a grand meeting yesterday amongst the Guzarati community here and most probably we shall very soon have our own gorgeious temple in San Francisco. So everyone is doing very nicely and I hope that you two also do something wonderful in India. And Bom- bay is the right place. As you don’t like to reside in Vrindaban, but you prefer a city like Delhi, then the best city in India is Bombay. There, you don’t require to speak Hindi or Bengali, all gentlemen and residents there speak in English. So you will have better facility to work there and probably to establish a center there. I do not know why you are hesitating. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, 68-9-19 15th September, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 10, 1968, just after posting my reply to your letter dated Sept. 9. The coinci- dence that as soon as you received my let- ter for opening the Berlin center immediately, Krishna has sent you imme- diately a check for 200 American dollars—this is a good omen that we should immediately open our branch in Berlin. The description of the storefront with 4 rooms and floor, kitchen, and bath- room etc, appears to be very suitable for our purposes. And the rent is not much and I am so glad that you can manage it. So my advice is that you can immediately occupy the storefront for our branch, and let me know the address so that we can en- list our Berlin center immediately in the list of our several other centers. Please do not be very serious with Swami Omkarananda because they are impersonalists. You can keep good friend- ship with different yoga teachers, but practically our mode of Krishna Con- sciousness is different from theirs. Per- haps these people may not like our Samkirtan movement, so you have to be very careful in their association. The package said to be sent by you is not yet received here. Anyway, I offer all blessings of Krishna onto you and be suc- cessful in your noble adventure. I shall be glad to hear from you further, and hoping you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami N.B. The third mantra of your Gayatri ceremony was stated wrong. It should read as follows: “AIM GURUDEVAYA VIDMAHE KRISHNANANDAYA DHEE- MAHI TANNAH GURO PRACHO- DAYAT.” In other words, “TANNAH GURO” should be inserted, and “DHIYO YO NAH” should be removed. Please correct as need be. 68-9-20 San Francisco 17th September, 1968 My Dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. With great pleasure I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 13/9/68, and it is so nicely written that I have read the matter twice, I am writing herewith in my hand, Hare Krishna: Please try to open the Lon- don temple as quickly as possible, and I am ready to start for London at any mo- ment on receipt of the news. You will be pleased to learn also that Shivananda is opening a center in Berlin very soon. His different letters indicate that he is very SEPTEMBER, 1968 519 much hopeful for success of the center and two boys, one of them a German boy, Uttama Sloka, and Krishna das, are going to join him by the end of this month, of September. So I hope during the month of October we shall open two branches in Europe. Hope this will find you in good health, 68-9-21 San Francisco 17th September, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I hope you have received my letter regarding Bha- gavad Gita as it is, and Jaya Go- vinda’s letter from India. In the mean- time, I have received another letter from Jaya Govinda, and it appears that he is very anxious to have the indemnity bond. He has given one note below his letter that reads as follows: “N.B. Swamiji, If you would like for Parbat Maharaj to do me the favor of signing himself the indemnity bodn, then please ask him that directly; of course, then he will ask that I always re- main here at his Math. I am agreeable to this proposition. Or; if you would like for him to direct Mr. Om Prakash to sign, then please ask him that directly also. This is Parbat Maharaj’s request. (Jay- aGovinda)”’ This means that Parvat Ma- haraj is canvassing to break them from the society and remain with him. He is an- other edition of Bon Maharaj, who has broken the poor Hrishikesh from the soci- ety. Besides that, you have sent me a note dated 9/10/68, which reads as follows: “Dear Swamiji, Please accept my most humble obeisances. Enclosed is a maga- zine published by Sri Srimad Parbat Ma- haraj which Jaya Govinda sent us. You will be interested to see one article pub- lished about the San Francisco Ratha Ya- tra festival. (Brahmananda das)” From this note it appears that Parvat Maharaj is misrepresenting himself as the publisher of the paper “‘Truth.” But actually he is not so. It is published by one very big Doctor, Medical Practitioner, Dr. N.R. Sen. I knew this gentleman in connection with my medical business. So in this way, it is clear that this Parvat Maharaj is trying to entice Jaya Govinda. The letter which I have sent yesterday to Jaya Govinda, a copy of which is enclosed herewith. Now you should clearly write to him that if both of them jointly work in Bombay, on behalf of ISKCON, and under clear direction from me, then they can remain in India, and you will give him the required indem- nity letter. Otherwise they must return to Germany to assist Shivananda there. In Bombay, they can work on behalf of our society by selling magazines, securing ad- vertisements for Back To Godhead, and selling our books. That will be their main business. So far learning a new language, Bengali or Hindi, etc., this is simply a waste of time; they aren’t scholarly boys. Had they been scholarly then they would have prosecuted their mother tongue edu- cation very nicely. So anyone who is not scholarly cannot pick up any foreign lan- guage so quickly. And even if he picks up some broken words, that cannot be used for any purpose. So clearly advise them not to indulge in childish frivolities. Achyutananda has already wasted 10 months time by his childish frivolities; sometimes preacher, sometimes guru, and sometimes so and so. So you will kindly give them clear indication that they should stop all these things, and work as directed in the above way—without fur- ther delay. I think Bombay is the right field for their activities as I have already suggested in the enclosed copy of the let- ter, which please find. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 520 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-9-22 San Francisco 18th September, 1968 Berlin My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 16, 1968, and although it is a bit of a long letter, but is so nice to read. Regard- ing the lease making: I think you are right when you wish to take the apartment at least for 3 years. This is all good. I can un- derstand from your description as it was made formerly, and in this letter also, that it is clear that the place is destined for our temple, and you can immediately take it on lease. In your center, there will be at least 5 members of our society: your good self, Krishna das, Uttama Sloka, and I am asking Achyutananda and Jaya Govinda to come there, to return from India, and to join you. Uttama Sloka is a good German scholar, and if you all learn German and French, which will be easier for you than to learn any Indian language, and Berlin will be the center of our preaching work in central Europe. You are a sincere devotee and Krishna will give you timely all good intelligence in this connection. Now please try to organize as quickly as possible. Regarding collecting fund: The Brahmacharies, Vanaprastha, and San- nyasins are not supposed to earn money like Grihasthas. The Grihasthas or the householders can engage himself in earn- ing money, either by accepting job or some professional work. But a Brahma- chary, Vanaprastha, and Sannyasin is sup- posed only to depend on Krishna and beg from the Grihasthas. The same system can be followed if it is possible. You are completely right when you think that if by begging alms we can provide ourself, we should not accept any job. So far I can un- derstand from the indication in your letter, that if you form a party of Samkirtan, and walk in the street, I think you can get not less than 50 to 100 marks daily. If five or six men who are sympathetic to you and as some of them has already assured that you can count upon them, the best thing will be to form a local trust party, including those gentlemen and yourself, of 12 heads, and immediately start your work. Inthe meantime, we shall have our book, Bhagavad Gita as it is, and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, ready. That will sell also. You are right that you propose to travel because you are alone. But there is an In- dian proverb: that you can earn $12 by travelling, but you can earn $13 by sitting, provided you know how to sit in a place. The same principle can be applied in this connection. Certainly you can preach well by travelling, as I also came in your country, but since I sat at 26 Second Ave- nue, in July 1966, the society has devel- oped to its present shape. I came here in your country in Sept. 1965, and because I could not sit down at a nice place until July 1966, I could not do very well in the matter of preaching work. So anyway, your travelling was not at all disturbing to me, but Krishna has given us good chance to open a nice center now. Please utilize this opportunity. I shall very soon write to your mother, and I hope very soon your dream of a religious congress in Berlin, sponsored by the Krishna Consciousness society, will be fulfilled. I am asking im- mediately Achyutananda to return from India to Germany, to you, and you can im- mediately arrange for the place and let me know. Krishna das has already given notice to his present employer for quitting, and he is expected to start by the next Wednesday, Sept. 25, 1968, via New York, and he will take with him mridanga and kartal. And whatever you need, you can send a letter to Brahmananda immediately, and Brahm- ananda will prepare it, and Krishna das will carry it with him to Germany. SEPTEMBER, 1968 521 Hope you are well, and please keep me informed at least once in a week. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Now you can know why Krishna didn’t like you toenter London! P.S. In London they are also doing well. Our London temporary address is as fol- lows: Mukunda das Adhikary 80, Herne Hill London S.E. 24 England 68-9-23 19th September, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated 11, and 13 Sept. 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. Regarding Christopher Fynn: I have chanted his beads and am sending herewith; please find. He is a nice boy. You and your wife should guide him in the matter of further progress and his spiritual name, I have fixed up, Chintamani das Brahmachary. Regarding your press: If Chintamani das is settled to remain in Montreal, then you can start the press, a small press immediately. I think you should wait and see how Chintamani das is settled up there. Because if you pur- chase press, and if he goes away to En- gland, then the investment will for nothing. I do not think that is adviseable immediately. You continue to publish Back to Godhead in French language, in the mimeograph machine, and when you feel confident that it is going on, and Chintamani das is fixed up then it will great success for us to start a small press in Montreal. Regarding Peet Aarola: I have seen the picture, and it is a good idea that he wants to be initaited, and so you can send his also. I shall initiate him, be- cause he is painting Radha-Krishna pic- tures. Let him render some service to Krishna. And if possible, try to open a branch in New Brunswick. It will be a great pleasure for me. I am glad that Ku- lashekar has come back. I think he cannot go from our society because he has al- ready rendered some service to Krishna. So Krishna is not going to leave him at any cost. So treat him nicely so that he can be fixed up there. And his attention should be in the matter of painting. That’s a very nice idea. Please offer my blessings to him, and treat him very well. So far Mri- gendra das is concerned, he will also come back; don’t worry. Recently I have received letter from Shivananda; the pros- pect in Berlin is very bright. And two stu- dents from San Francisco are going on the 28th to Berlin, and I am asking Achyuta- nanda and Jaya Govinda to come back and join him in Berlin. Similarly I have. re- ceived report from London; they are hav- ing regular kirtans and feasts, although not in our own temple, but in different places. One most important thing is that the money which I sent on Shyamsundar’s ac- count with Charter Bank, through my banker, the Canadian National Bank, has not yet received. This bank is most third class bank. Will you kindly personally go and inquire why are they so much callous, in foreign countries, they are without money and they are silent. It is very much surprising. So consult with Janardan what steps we can take. My account number is—, savings bank. Please let me know what is the result of your visiting the man- ager. If they have not sent the money, and if simply they say they have sent, then what steps shall we take against them? It is very serious matter. So kindly do the needful in sonsultation with Janardan, and let me know. Most probably I am, coming Saturday, I am going to Seattle. 522 Letters from Srila Prabhupada From Seattle my program is to visit Van- couver, and if possible, I may come back to Montreal again. Then I may be going to Europe. Regarding Deity worship: It is very much essential and in this conection you can consult Brahmananda who is doing Deity worship in New York very nicly, and how is he feeling. One after another, Deity worship should be practised by ev- eryone. That cleanses the contaminated body very nicely. It is really the custom that before entering one must be cleansed and bathe himself regularly. The whole idea is that we must very much sincere in our activities to serve Krishna, and every- thing will automatically be convenient for prosecuting our Krishna Consciousness. And I hope you are doing very nicely, and Krishna will give you more and more strength. Hope this will find you in good health. Offer my blessings to all the stu- dents, and especially to Himavati. I am pleased to learn that Subhadra is looking on you; it is good sign, that she is favoring you in your good activities. She is shakti of Krishna, or the internal potency and by her mercy glance, you will be more and more successful in your advancement in Krishna Consciousness. Thanking you once more for your kind letter. Your ever well-wisher, A.C.B. 68-9-24 San Francisco 20th September, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your two letters dated 8 and 17, 1968, and I am so happy to learn that you are proud of being hus- band of Jadurany. Yes, you should be proud of having a nice wife like that. And Ihave handed over my daughter unto you, because I knew it that you will be the per- fect boy to take care of her. Recently she was deteriorating in her health, so I was very much anxious about her, therefore, I decided to give her in your charge. Of course, even when you were not married, you were taking care of her always, but when the relationship is there as husband and wife, there is the question of responsi- bility. So I wanted you to take that respon- sibility. Anyway, everyone in our society thinks that your combination is very much appropriate. So be happy with your nice wife and take care of her properly. In your letter of the 17th instant, you have very frankly inquired from me about householder life, especially in the matter of sex relationship. A Sannyasi is not sup- posed to be asked about anything sexual. But still, because you are so much depen- dent on my instruction, so I must give you information as far as possible. Married life is not for sex indulgence. The princi- ple of marriage is on the background of getting good children. So the householder is allowed to have sex life once in a month, just after the menstrual period. The men- strual period prolongs at least for 5 days, so after this 5 days, one can have sex life provided he desires to get a child. And as soon as the wife is pregnant, no more sex life, until the child is born and is grownup at least for 6 months. After that, one may have sex life on the same principle. If one does not want more than one or two childen, he should voluntarily stop sex life. But one should not strictly use any contraceptive method and at the same time indulge in sex life. That is very much sinful. If the husband and wife can volun- tarily restrain by powerful advancement of Krishna Consciousness. That is the best method. It is not necessary that be- cause one has got wife, therefore you must have sex life. The whole scheme is to avoid sex life as far as possible. And if one can avoid it completely then it is a great victory for him. Married life is a sort of SEPTEMBER, 1968 523 license for sex life on condition of raising children. So you should try to understand these principles of married life and use your discretion. You should not imitate great personalities like Bhaktivinode Thakur, but you must follow His foot- prints. But it is not always possible to have the same success as great personalities like Bhaktivinode Thakur achieved. So in all circumstances you should try to follow the footprints of authorities but never to imitate them. Unless Jadurany develops a better health and strength, I do not advise her to become pregnant. I think you will understand the instruction as I have given and try to follow it as far as possible. Our relationship is eternal. But if somebody lags behind, so in spite of our eternal relationship one may not meet other at the destination. Just like a flock of birds—although very intimately related, everyone of them has to fly in the sky by individual strength. If one is less strong, the other cannot keep him in the sky. That is the law of nature. So long everyone of us is strong in Krishna Consciousness, there is no doubt, you can fly in the spiritual sky and meet together without failure. There- fore, individual strength is most important. And that individual strength is achieved in the association of devotees also. So you can make your own judgment. Anyway, please take care of your health, and I hope you are both well and happy. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Tomorrow I am going to Seattle. 68-9-25 San Francisco 20th September, 1968 My Dear Ananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 10, 1968, and I have noted the con- tents carefully. I think your program is very nice, and Anapurna is here. We hada good talk yesterday, and it is understood that her parents are agreeable in this mar- riage proposal, and she wishes that the marriage may take place in London, when she goes there. It is understood also that her father is impressed with our society’s work and her mother especially liked all the members of our society who have gone in London. So you work very dili- gently and secure some money. I am com- ing to Seattle by tomorrow evening and if you can see me at Seattle it will be very nice. You can also inform Mr. Renovich and Mr. Windisch that I am going to Seat- tle by tomorrow, and they can correspond with me for my visiting Vancouver and at- tending lectures, so that I can make my program there and come to Vancouver for a few days. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-26 Seattle 22nd September, 1968 My Dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated New Vrin- daban, 16th Sept. 1968. I am very glad to learn that all the members there are doing very nicely, and living happily. I hope that New Vrindaban will give shelter to so many unhappy men of this country and they will be happy by working there, and living there in good association of devo- tees. Pradyumna and Bamandev are very good boys; keep them very nicely, and they will be very much helpful. I have come here to Seattle, last evening, and things are hopeful here also. Yesterday, before coming here I was talking with one 524 Letters from Srila Prabhupada hippy boy. He came to see me in my apart- ment in San Francisco, and was talking that hippies are in search after such peace- ful place, like you have got in New Vrin- daban. And they do not like to live in the cities anymore. So if some of us go and make some canvassing work among the hippies, that the thing which they are searching after is here in Krishna Con- sciousness, and as soon as they come they will understand, so somebody may be en- gaged in such propaganda work. Regard- ing Randy, I understand that he is addicted to heroin intoxication, and he is taking some medicine to give it up, but I am sure that the best medicine is chanting the HARE KRISHNA mantra. For the time being, let him take the substitute medicine as he is taking, and at the same time let him seriously chant HARE KRISHNA. And I hope he will be able to give up that substitute medicine also. I have got experience—one of my God-brother, he related about his past life, that he was ad- dicted to all kinds of intoxication, and he was distilling wine in his village without any license—he was such a great intoxi- cant. But later on, we found him com- pletely free from all intoxication—even he was noteven smoking and was quite fit to work for Krishna Consciousness. So ev- erything is possible provided one is seri- ous. In the Srimad Bhagavatam it is stated that if somebody is not too much ad- dicted, neither he is completely powerful to give up some bad habits, this via media stage is favorable. Immediately if he can- not give up the medicine as he is taking, that doesn’t matter. Let him chant HARE KRISHNA very seriously and he will gradually be able to give up everything. I am very glad to learn that Harivilas has given you a Pair of Radha Krishna Murtis, so it appears that Radha Krishna is very kind on you, because you went to Vrindaban, to live there but circumstan- tially, you could not live there, and you left. Krishna has given you New Vrinda- ban, as well as He has, out of His good will, He has come to you. It is very sur- prising. So please welcome the Deity and install Him in a nice throne. I think Ba- mandev will be able to prepare a nice throne, and you have seen the New York Deities’ dress and process of worship, so you can do in that way. There is nothing to be added new. The same principle should be followed, and the Deities should al- ways be well-dressed in clothing and some ornaments and flowers and incense. The Deities should always be attractive. And the more we are engaged in decorat- ing the Deities, washing the room, the more we are engaged in Deity worship, the more we become purified. That is practical. Brahmananda is also taking care of my Deity in New York, and he is practically experiencing and doing it. So if necessary you can take some informa- tion from him also. This Seattle city is undertood to be very big in area, and appears to be very peaceful also, because the population is less, and they are little responsive also. I think gradually this center will also grow very nicely. I have sent Goursundar to Hawaii to open a branch there, and I have received letters from London that the 6 devotees they are prosecuting their regular duties, namely kirtan in the morning, and on the weekdays as we do generally, and they are having love feast also, although not in our own place, but in different places. And they are searching after a suitable place for our temple. Similarly, in Berlin also, we are hopeful for starting a new branch there. And Krishna das, and Uttama Sloka (Uttama Sloka is a German boy) they are going there. And I have also ad- vised Achyutananda to return back to Ger- many. So I think 4 or 5 of them will do very nice in Berlin, and the 6 devotees in London, they will also do very nice there. And I think as soon as they are prepared to take me there, I shall go immediately, in Europe. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-27 Seattle 22nd September, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 16, 1968, and I think everything is going well with you, both. Yes, from the very beginning you just revise Srimad Bhagavatam and now we shall print 12 volumes, for 12 cantos, under different names, each canto. That scheme will be nice. Regarding encroachment by Maya: There is every possibility, at every time, because we are living in the kingdom of Maya. Her influence upon us is very strong, but as indicated in the Bhagavad Gita, 7th chapter, that in spite of her very great influence over the living entities, a living entity as soon as he fully surrenders unto Krishna, the influence of Maya will no more act upon him. This is a fact. So the more we become stronger in our Krishna Consciousness, the more Maya is aloof from us. Your poetry is nice, and I am keeping it with me for future publication in Back To Godhead. I shall send it to Rayarama in my next mail to him. If you can write a nice short article, in- viting the hippies, totake to Krishna Con- sciousness, and practice it in New Vrindaban, I think many sincere hippies who are looking after something genuine, peaceful, they will come. So our move- ment if it is introduced amongst the hip- Pies, because so far I can understand, they are after such thing for peace of the mind. Not only for the hippies, but for everyone. SEPTEMBER, 1968 525 Everyone is seeking after peace and hap- piness, but they are seeking in the mate- rial platform. That is not possible to be achieved there. One has to be elevated on the spiritual platform and then his aspira- tion will be fulfilled. I think you can write a nice article for publication in our Back To Godhead. Hope this will find you in good health. HARE KRISHNA. Yours ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-28 Seattle 23rd September, 1968 My Dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Sept. 15, 1968, Sept. 21, along with the nice news clipping, and I am so glad to note your feelings of Krishna Consciousness gradu- ally increasing. It is all Krishna’s Mercy upon you for your sincere mode of ser- vice; please keep this attitude and you will be happy moreand more. Regarding the lost certificate paper: I understand from Govinda devi that you have got it back. Pleae print is nicely. I have received one letter from Mu- kunda that your preaching work is going on nicely, and so it is also confirmed by you. I shall be glad to know how you’re meeting in the Hindu center, and how the meetings are being carried successfully. These people might be impersonalists, so far I can understand from the handbill, but still, we can perform Kirtan in any place. It does not matter what they are. By our Kirtan process we have to influence others. Now I am thinking of Kirtan with slides. If I get opportunity to prepare some nice slides from Srimad Bhagava- tam and make tape records on the prayers offered to the Deity in the slide, as well as explain the whole slide in English, all tape recorded, this will be very nice idea. I 526 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda shall be glad to know your opinion also. Since I received letter in San Fran- cisco, I have come here to Seattle, and on Saturday last, the 21st instant. And the re- port is that in this place, our preaching of Krishna Consciousness has a great po- tency. So I shall begin my classes today. And they have arranged some lectures also. Let me see what will happen. I do not know whether you are in re- ceipt of the bank money which I have sent from Montreal, for credit of account with Shyamsundar at Charter Bank. So I have written to the bank, to the Montreal bank, to take information, and shall be glad whether you have received the money or not. In case you have not received, take one letter from the Charter Bank and send it to me. You will be glad to know our disciple Sriman Dinesh is preparing another rec- ord, Chintamani Prakara Sadmasu, and other songs and speeches, 20 min. each side. And it will come out very soon. Re- garding our former records, if you want we can send you for selling there. Hope this will find you all in good health. And awaiting your further letters about preach- ing work. Yours ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-29 Seattle 26th September, 1968 Sri S. S. Sethi, Vice Consul Consulate General of India 215 Market Street San Francisco, Cal. Dear Mr. Sethi, Please accept my greetings. I hope by this time you have received two copies of photos I have sent you through Sri Som- nath Dhar. Now with reference to your let- ter no. SANF/CONS/384/68 addressed to Mr. A. C. Misra, Attache, High Com- mission of India, Ottav'a, Canada, I beg to inform you that they have sent me a wrong passport and returned back the postal or- der in order that I may receive the certifi- cates from your office. In this connection they write to say as follows: “As you are no longer living within our jurisdiction, you are advised to contact our San Fran- cisco office for police clearance and birth certificate.” Please therefore issue these certificates per bearer and he will pay the required fees. I do not know what to do with this wrong passport. The copy of the letter which I have addressed to Mr. Misra in this connection is also enclosed herewith. Kindly therefore do the needful immedi- ately as I want both the passport and cer- tificate very urgently, and I am simply waiting for them. I am sending my disci- ple Sriman Chidananda Brahmachary (Mr. Clay Harrold) to see you, and please advise him what to do. Yours sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-30 Seattle 26th September, 1968 Shri A. C. Misra Attache High Commission of India 200 Maclaren Street Ottawa 4, Canada Dear Sir, While thanking you for your registered letter No. OTT/428/2/68, I beg to inform you that on opening the registered cover, I find that the passport does not belong to me. I am very much surprised how this mis-delivery has been possible. The pass- port which I have got in my hand just now is No. I-062636, in favor of Charamma Sebastian, issued from your Bombay of- fice, dated October 25, 1962. Please therefore find out immediately SEPTEMBER, 1968 527 where is my passport and send it directly to your San Francisco office care of Mr. Sethi, because without the passport I can- not get the police clearance and birth cer- tificates. I have received back the money order, but I cannot utilize it without get- ting my passport. Ihave been so long wait- ing for the passport and twice I phoned your office in Canada, asking you to send it back, as requested by your San Fran- cisco office, but when I got your regis- tered package, it is a different one. Please therefore immediately arrange to return my passport care of Mr. Sethi, and on re- turn of my passport, I shall return the wrong passport which is in my possession. Yours faithfully, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-31 Seattle 26th September, 1968 My Dear Krishna devi and Dinesh Chandra das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Sept. 24, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. Yes, you can accept this proposal without any hesitation and get the loan from him. For service of Krishna some- times we may agree to act in a way which may not be very agreeable to us. But in all cases, please do not agree to accept meat. Avoid such undesirable action very tact- fully. Hope you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-32 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknoweldge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 24, 1968, and it is very encourag- ing. May Krishna bless you all. I am so glad to learn that Nandarani and her hus- band are all so enthusiastically trying to render service to Krishna and you have got very good assistants—Harer Nama, and Baraha Murti. It is so encouraging to learn that Baraha Murti has got permis- sion from his Hiranakshya-father. Per- haps you know this story of Baraha Murti. Hiranakshya put the earthly planet within the water, and Lord Baraha lifted the merged earthly planet by His big tusks. So Krishna has given you all a good chance for developing Hollywood, and I hope in the near future all the artists will take to Krishna Consciousness movement, and Hollywood shall become a holy place. Regarding my going to Los Angeles: I can go at any time, but I think if you are serious to call me you can do so by the middle of October. I think that will be nice. Now, my plan is that personally I shall try to retire from active participa- tion, but I want a place where I can live with at least 15 devotees engaged in edito- rial work, recording work, photographic work, painting work, etc., so that I may prepare materials for the preaching party who will go with all these paraphernalia and preach Krishna Consciousness all over the world. If you think that you can help me in this respect then it may be I can make Hollywood as my headquarters. In the meantime, I have received letter from Hawaii, and it appears that a good center can be opened there. So let us organize all the centers which are already opened. And until we are fully organized, all these places are fully organized, we shall not make any more attempts. Dinesh is a good technician in the mat- ter of film making, and gramophone rec- ord making, and it is understood that in Hollywood is a good place for such kind of activities. So somehow or other, you organize your center nicely, and I shall be 528 Letters from Srila Prabhupada glad to visit if necessary by the middle of October. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-33 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I was very much anxious to hear from you, and I am so glad to receive your letter dated Sept. 24, 1968, and it is very encouraging. It is by Krishna’s Grace that you have gotten a job as desk clerk. This is another good news. Please continue in that job and try to organize a center in Hawaii, whose de- scription appears to be very attractive like India. The description you have given is exactly corresponding to the eastern and western coast of India. I think Maha- purusha will join you very soon. And Murari is also arranging to go there, so you will get the cooperation and help of your God-brothers, and youare also situa- ted in a job, and when Govinda dasi goes there, I think she can also have a nice job. So, combined together, you will be able to develop a very nice center, perhaps our own temple of Radha Krishna in that good spot, which is very attractive for me at least. Regarding the mridanga: You should make a statement to the authority that they did not allow you to take it with you, and forced you to keep it with the baggages, although it was known that there was every chance of it being broken. And at last they have broken it—so they must pay $200.00 damages. Claim it, and we shall fight with these nonsense people. I do not know in future how we can take mridanga there. Is there any marine shipping ser- vice from San Francisco or from India to there? Please keep me informed of your ac- tivities there, and I hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am feeling your separation but that does not matter we must do our duty in Krishna Consciousness. 68-9-34 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Vamandas, Please accept my blessings. I see that you are feeling not well. I advise you therefore to come and live with me so that you can be freed from the doubts. I hope you are chanting regularly at least 16 rounds. Sometimes Maya disturbs us but that does not mean any serious drawback. So if you feel too much uneasy, you can come and live with me for some time, and everything will be set up. I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-35 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Sept. 20, 1968, and it is very encouraging to note all the informations. I think Krishna will help you in all respects. And the credit of opening our London branch will go to the San Francisco boys, headed by you. Of course, the girls also share the credit undoubtedly. And I am always ready for going there as soon as you shall call me. Regarding the bank affair: You write to say “We are expecting a letter from the Canadian Bank any day as to whether the SEPTEMBER, 1968 529 money was credited back to your ac- count.” This means that you have not re- ceived the money, and you are arranging to get the money again credited in my ac- count in the Canadian National Bank, at Montreal. But I have received one note from Hansadutta who says like this: “I went to your bank and checked into that 1655.00 for Shyamsundar and the gentle- man in charge of the affair said that is all taken care of and that by this time they have got that money in London.” I cannot understand what is the real position, but I request you to open correspondence with Hansadutta and let me know conveniently what is the actual position. Hope you are well, and offer to Janaki my blessings, and all others also. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-36 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Sept. 19, 1968, and thank you very much for it. Now, you have to print a large num- ber of Back To Godhead every month. I think only in California area you shall be able to sell 3000 copies per month. Simi- larly, in other centers also you can sell a large number of Back To Godhead, since the Samkirtan party is moving and people are purchasing very gladly. So you can ex- pect golden days very soon. And you must prepare yourself for this purpose. Regarding your assistant: I must help you in this connection, and I think Subal will be one of your best assistants. He is struggling very hard alone in Santa Fe. If Brahmananda and yourself can arrange to send somebody to take charge of Santa Fe, he can immediately be called for your as- sistance. similarly, there is a new boy, Chintamoni (Christopher Fynn) who is in Montreal temple. I think he can also be a great help to you. You can open corre- spondence with Hansadutta in this con- nection, and if you think that boy is suitable, he can also help you. Please con- tinue to send our Back To Godhead to all persons, I have given you list—especially to Sumati Morarjee at Bombay, because she is coming again to help our activities. You can send copies to Hawaii also to Goursundar to the following adress: Gary McElroy; room 5066; Armed Services Y.M.C.A., 250 South Hotel Street; Honolulu, Hawaii, 96813. Regarding my stationary: It is almost finished and you can arrange for printing next copies to your good choice. Govinda dasi doesn’t like the setting of camp and date. But I am moving everywhere, prac- tically I am not fixed up at any address, so you have to adjust as nicely as possible. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 letter from Subal 68-9-37 Seattle 27th September, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated September 24, 1968, and I am so pleased that Devananda is doing marvelous work in propagating our Krishna Conscious- ness movement by lecturing in the Boston University, and he is being paid $25 per lecture. It is a great credit for me also. And I feel proud that Devananda is so nicely representing my views. By Krishna’s Grace, everything is gradually coming to the fulfillment of my dream. The Samkirtan party is walking in the streets and is getting good response, from 530 Letters from Srila Prabhupada the public. They are selling Back To God- head nicely, and getting good sympathy from the public by considerable collec- tions. We are not after collecting money, but when people offer something out of love and sympathy for our mission, it be- comes a great asset. I am sure if you all my beloved disciples combined together try to preach Krishna Consciousness in this spirit, Krishna will give the necessary strength. By the Grace of Krishna and the Spiritual Master, the dumb man can speak like a great orator, and a lame man can cross over a great mountain. So we must have the necessary unflinching faith in Krishna and Spiritual Master, and the strength will be supplied by Krishna. Af- ter all, anything which we experience is but a fraction of the unlimited energy of Krishna. And even by fragmental touch of such spiritual energy of the Lord, we can make our life successful. Regarding yourself and Jadurany: You are both very sincere servitors to the cause of Krishna, and Krishna will give you necessary intelligence how to behave with one another. I am glad to learn that the girls under the guidance of Jadurany are doing nice painting work, and I am very much inclined to have many many Samkirtan pictures painted like the one which was in your Boston temple, on the wall, while I was there. I have one photo- graph of this picture and it is so nice that I feel my joys unlimited. (See enclosed sketch for identifying the exact painting I am speaking of). Our Madhavilata is also a good artist. She is painting a very nice picture of Radha Krishna seated on a swing. But she is a little independent spir- ited, and wants to wander with me. Any- way, she is a sincere good soul, and let her do the work in her own way. But it is a good asset for her that she has attraction to hear me. That will make her all right in the due course of time, and it may be that she wil also come out a great painting as- sistant in our society. I am sending herewith the certificate required by you, and I hope Krishna will help you in your deire to get more help for your executive function. Enclosed please find also one letter of thanks for Devananda which please de- liver to him with my blessings. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami I am a litte perturbed by hearing about your accident, but I am sure Krishna will help you in your sincere service. I am glad to learn that Jadurany is improving in her health, and I shall always pray to Krishna for her health and prolonged life. My Dear Devananda, Please accept my blessings. I am so pleased to learn that you are lecturing in the Boston University class in mysticism, and they are appreciating your versions. Please always remain submissive in spirit to Krishna and Spiritual Master, and by their Grace you will get all strength to speak and satisfy your audience. I re- member when you were walking with me on the New York street, you were propos- ing me to become lecturer in some Uni- versity. And your honest desire has been fulfilled by Krishna, that He has given sufficient strength unto you, that instead of me, you are speaking there as my repre- sentative. This is all Krishna’s Grace. But one thing I may inform you, that the three books which I have already prepared, namely, the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and Srimad Bhagavatam, all these books are the ulti- mate source of knowledge. If you simply reproduce what I have tried to explain in those books, surely you will come out vic- torious, even in the midst of so many great mundane scholars. The description given in these books, are not mundane specula- tions, but they are authorized versions of SEPTEMBER, 1968 531 liberated souls, presented by our humble self. So the strength is not in us, but the strength is in the Supreme Lord. And we have simply to present them without any adulteration, in humble service spirit. That is the secret of success. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-38 Seattle 29th September, 1968 My Dear Krishna devi and Dinesh Chandra das, Please accept my blessings. In con- tinuation of my last letter, I have taken quotation from New York about record manufacturing and Brahmananda has sent me the following quotation as per leaflet enclosed herewith. Brahmananda says it will be still not cheaper so far printing of albums is concerned, so if we get 5000 al- bums, I have estimated, it will be more or less round 2000 dollars, or about 45 cents per record. So if Dinesh and you think that the record playing has come out very successful, then we must print 5000 copies. If you get $2000. from your father, that will be sufficient for 5000 copies, and if need be, we can ar- range to invest one hundred or two hun- dred more, if so required. So you ask Dinesh to open correspondence imme- diately with Brahmananda, and it will be nice to print 5000 albums immedi- ately. The Samkirtan party is selling Back To Godhead nicely and if they display the record on a record player in the street, I think we can sell this album very nicely. * If you get a cheaper price than this rate, let me know, otherwise we may get it manufactured in New York. So far album art work is con- cerned, I shall ask Murlidhar to do it very nicely. So please let me know what you are going to do in this connection and I hope you are in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *I understand stereo recordsare in greater demand than mono records. So you will have to do stereo records. 68-9-39 Seattle 29th September, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am just in receipt of your airmail special delivery letter dated September 26, 1968, and I am very much pleased to know that the stu- dents of different universities in Boston are taking some interest in our missionary activities. You write to say that it appears the students are more discontented than ever and are openly stating that they do not have any solution to their discontent with the present civilization. It is very good opportunity therefore for presenting our manifesto, on the basis of Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. These books are also coming out very soon, by the end of next month. If there is good opportunity for agitating the student community in Boston, I must take advantage of the opportune moment if ac- tually they are eager to know about it. I am sure they will appreciate the techniques of our movement if they patiently hear for some time. If they are ready to spare such time, I am prepared to deliver lectures on the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, as well as Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, once in a week in different colleges and universi- ties. But I shall appreciate their genuine desire if I am invited directly—so that I can know they are actually eager about it. In that case, I can cancel all my engage- ments in the western part of your country, 532 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and may spare one to two months in Bos- ton for executing this urgent and impor- tant work. The thing is that if they are serious, they must hear the philosophy for some time, and I am prepared to spare my time for this purpose. So I shall be glad to hear from you further in this matter, and then I shall chalk out my program. Regarding the Deities: the quotation by Overseas Exporters appears to be very high. I have enquired several other places also, so let us wait. Don’t put any order just now unless you hear from me. Harivi- las brought two pairs of small Deities from Vrindaban. One pair is with me, so they are also very nice. So you can ask Harivilas and he will give information where to get, and what was the price. In that case, you can immediately write to Achyutananda and JayaGovinda who are now in Delhi at the following address: c/o Indraprastha Goudiya Math; Dina-ka- Galab, Malkaganj; Subjimandi; Delhi 7, India. And arrange to take supply from Vrindaban directly, not only one pair but a few pairs. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-9-40 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 9/23/68, and thank you very much for it. Now, because you are on the field work, you have to meet so many opposite ele- ments. And you have to satisfy them or fight with them with conclusive state- ments from Bhagavad Gita, and Srimad Bhagavatam, and as such, it is needed that you should be thoroughly conversant with the truth. Regarding the Hindu community: Don’t expect anything very wonderful from them, as we have got experience in Montreal—they have come in the foreign countries to earn money. As such, you cannot expect any cultural contribution. So you will tactfully deal with them, and whenever possible, vehemently protest against their foolish ideas. But you should try to support your statements on the strength of Bhagavatam and Bhagavad Gita. Best thing will be to avoid them as far as possible. I am concerned to preach this gospel amongst the Europeans and Americans, and I am not at all interested to preach amongst the Indians, because they have now become hodge-potch, due to so many years of subjugation by for- eigners, and having lost their own culture. Hope you are well with your good wife, and please offer Yamuna devi my blessings. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami OCTOBER 68-10-1 Seattle lst October, 1968 London My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am glad to receive your letter dated Sept. 26, 1968, and itis very much pleasing to learn about your nice activities there. I am little concerned about your attempt to form ISKCON Ltd. My idea is that we should not form a separate organization in Lon- don. The same International Society for Krishna Consciousness as we have branches in different places in USA, a similar branch may be opened in London or in Germany. The basic principle of our preaching work, methods and manage- ment must be the same. I do not know why a separate registration is required. To be more clear, I may say that if the manage- ment goes to other hands, then it will be difficult for preaching our principles. Our main principle is Krishna Consciousness on the basis of Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and Lord Chaitanya’s Teachings. So far dif- ferent participants in London are con- cerned, they must agree to our principles or they must follow our principles. You should be careful on this point. We cannot agree to make a mixed up association without any authorized principles. So far as Hindus are concerned, they are not fixed up in one principle. Under the cir- cumstances, do not be misled that because some of the Hindus are taking interest in this movement, they are of the same opin- ion. Youhave seen the affairs in Montreal. So my final desire is that whatever you do, you must do it strictly on the principles of our society as we are doing in the US. In the management of the London branch, if the local Englishmen come forward, that is welcome. So far Indians are concerned, there are so many varieties of split-up Hindu society. So I hope you will take necessary precautions in the matter of registering ISKCON Ltd. ISKCON is the short cut of our society’s name, but when you actually register the full name, the aims and objectives as they are stated in our prospectus, must be mentioned. Any- way, I am so much pleased that your pro- gram of Kirtan and Krishna Conscious- ness is going on well there although you have not got yet our own temple. Why don’t you get Back To Godhead from New York? Here the Samkirtan party, headed by Jayananda and Tamal Krishna is doing very nice. They are collecting an average of $45 daily, as contributions, and selling an average of 100 copies of Back To God- head. So try to get immediately copies of Back To Godhead from New York and try to sell them in large quantities. That is our backbone. In meantime, our Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya are also coming out by the end of this month. So Kirtan plus distribution of our books and literature is the basic principle of our success. Even if we do not have our own temple it does not matter, but if we can hold Kirtan 24 hours, and distribute our publications, that is our great success. I have now received one let- ter from Shyamsundar about the bank af- fairs, and will reply him shortly. I received also one letter from Malati, and one from Yamuna, which are very nice, and I shall reply them in my next. If there 534 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda is no immediate program of my going to London, then I may go next either to Los Angeles or Boston. Hopethis finds you all alright. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta My Dear Shyamsunder, Please accept my blessings. I am so pleased to learn about your slow but sure progress in the matter of your most glori- ous London yatra. I am sure Krishna will help you fully and do it seriously. I hope the letter of Alan Ginsberg will help you greatly. If you think so right you can open a/c external sterling scheme with the London and let me know the a/c number. Hope this will find you in good health. Offer my blessings to Guru- das Yamuna, Janaki & Malati. ACB * but if need be you may not do it immedi- ately but do it when I shall go there. P.S. Yamuna has sent me a copy of letter you have received from Alan Ginsberg. Please utilise this letter properly. I am sure this will help you greatly. 68-10-2 lst October, 1968 My Dear Hansudutta, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard anything from you since last few days; hope everything is going on well. Now regarding the house which you saw on 772 Cherbrooke St., in front of McGill University, do you think I shall seriously negotiate for securing the house? The condition is that we have to pay a lease $12000 down and $100 per month. You assured me that by opening Prasadam Restaurant downstairs you will be able to raise this. If you are confident about this, then let me know immediately, so I shall renew negotiation with the party. You may see the house once more inside; the pro- cess to do so is as follows: [TEXT MISSING] 68-10-3 Seattle 3rd October, 1968 My Dear Yamuna devi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter of 9/27/68, London yatra, and it is so much encourag- ing to me. Your appreciation is so nice, of Srimad Bhagavat Gita and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and please continue to study and preach in this way to all you meet. I am very happy to learn that you are going to various homes and lecture halls, and holding kirtan and delivering lectures from these transcendental litera- tures. This is very nice. And if you con- tinue in this way, gradually so many people will be attracted, and our London center will be very soon successful. I have received also your handbills, and they are also very nice. All this good news is very much encouraging to me, and I thank you all six sincere souls for carrying on this mission so enthusiastically. The drawings for the certificate are en- closed herewith, and you can place them in proper position, as they look best. These recommendations may also help you: ‘‘Best use a 15x20 or similar propor- tion paper (hopefully you probably al- ready have used similar size) Be sure that after pasting in each corner, that the edges are kept clean, so that they do not show when photographed. For printing they can be reduced some, to about an inch or two larger than a piece of typewriting paper (with whatever exact proportions are con- venient to use in the reduction). Murlidhar das has drawn these pictures, and they are very nicely done. Today there was a television station in- terview in my apartment. They came with OCTOBER, 1968 535 big cameras and microphones, and I played harmonium and one lady inter- viewed with a few questions. They took also pictures of my altar with Radha Krishna Deities, and Lord Jagannath, and the cover pictures of my Bhagavad Gita and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. So it will be on the newscast at 5:00 this eve- ning, in color, and we will go and see how they have done it. They also came to our class last night, and took pictures of our students dancing in ecstasy. So this should help our movement here in Seattle, as so many people will see, and come to our temple. You can try for television appear- ances there also if possible. I hope youare all well, and I am always looking forward to hearing your good re- ports of the activities of the London yatra, and I shall be happy to come there when you are prepared for me. As ever I re- main, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle Sth October, 1968 68-10-4 My Dear Chidananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived acknowledgement of my letter dated 26th Sept., 1968, from Mr. S.S. Sethi, whom you saw. So I am replying him and the copy of the letter is enclosed, herewith. You can immediately go and see him and deliver the wrong passport, and take receipt signature on the copy of the letter. And keep the copy of the letter with the receipt signature, carefully. Before delivering the wrong passport to Mr Sethi, you keep in your diary the number of the passport, the owner of the passport, and the issuing office etc., in your notebook. And after delivering the passbook to Mr. Sethi, please let me know what does he say. And I hope you will carry this nicely, and I shall be also glad to know how your San Francisco branch is going on. Here everything is all right; we hope we shall get very good response from the student community here, be- cause one of the representatives of the stu- dent newspaper came to see me and there was nice discussion, and I hope a good re- port will come out. I have not heard anything about the ne- gotiation of the new temple house, and I shall be glad to hear about this from you. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-5 Seattle 6th October, 1968 My Dear Advaita, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated October 2, 1968, and noted the contents very care- fully. I am so glad to learn that the New York devotees are all feeling my separa- tion and you are feeling also; this is very blissful. In the transcendental platform, actually separation is more relishable than meeting. But either separation or meet- ing, the state is always absolute. Actually in the spiritual platform, there is no sepa- ration, but it is a different stages of rasas. So far service to Krishna is concerned, it is variagated. Krishna has got multi- energies, therefore, He can receive ser- vices from us in multi-forms. So anyone can render loving service to Krishna by his talents, that is the technique of Krishna Consciousness. So by the Grace of Krishna, you have got the talent and you have got the opportunity also to serve Him, and I wish that Krishna may give you more and more such opportunity to make your progress in Krishna Con- sciousness. I have already written to Ud- dhava about binding and size of the book, 536 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and again I am repeating that all my books shall be printed in the size 6 1/2 x 9, but next printing, I am willing to do it, canto by canto. That is to say, the three volumes already published of Srimad Bhagavatam maybe printed in one volume. And the pa- per should be that Indian thin paper. And the pages shall not be less than 1000. Of course, the composition all in Roman type, we shall avoid now the Sanskrit type. Simply we shall put transliteration, trans- lation, and purport. In this way volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, etc. 12 volumes, of Srimad Bhagavatam will be published. So we can do the needful. And so far Back To God- head is concerned, it is already known to you how to do it. Regarding binding: Some of our stu- dents also may learn the art, and so far I know, binding cost should not go beyond 40c. Please inform Balai dasi with my blessings, that I have received the report of the Istogosti, and it is very nice. Espe- cially the portion in which Rayarama and Purushottam’s presentation to deal with newcomers is very nice. We should not disturb the newcomers immediately with opposite proposals, but tactfully we shall try to teach him in our ways, and gradu- ally he will come to understand this policy is very nice, and approved by me. Hope you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle 6th October, 1968 68-10-6 My Dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated October 3, 1968, and I am so pleased to learn that you are now going to be photo- graphic expert also for our press. It is all Krishna’s arrangement. Please learn the art very nicely. So far financial assistance for starting our press, I am sure Krishna will help us. Don’t worry about it. Simply just become expert in conducting the press. Regarding binding: The cost of bind- ing should not be more than 40¢. And the best thing will be some of our students learn binding also. The book size of Sri- mad Bhagavatam will be exactly as it is, at present, but it may be that the pages may be increased. Because next printing I am thinking three volumes in one. And the papers may be just like Bible paper, thin, and pages will be not less than 1000, and we shall print in one volume; the binding should be very first class, and similarly, part by part, we shall have to print 12 parts, altogether. So if some of our stu- dents becomes expert in binding, that will be very nice. I think Devananda, who is in Boston, he has some knowledge in bind- ing. Binding is not very difficult task. Anyone can do it, but I do not know how it will be successfully done. But the cost of binding must not be more than 40¢. The Seattle center is going on very nicely, and most probably with our next center will be opened in Florida. I am so much thankful to you for your affection for me, and I pray to Krishna that you may make progress more and more in Krishna Consciousness. Thank you once more for writing me, Your ever well-wisher, A. C., Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle 6th October, 1968 68-10-7 Mr. Alan Ginsberg R.D. 2 Cherry Valley New York My Dear Ginsberg, Please accept my blessings. HARE KRISHNA! Mukunda has sent me a copy of the letter youhave sent him on Sept. 23, OCTOBER, 1968 537 1968, and I thank you very much for your so much sympathy for this Krishna Con- sciousness movement. And Krishna will certainly bestow His Mercy upon you, and I pray that you will live long for chanting HARE KRISHNA continuously. Hope this will find you all right in your health and other things. Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-8 Seattle 6th October, 1968 My Dear Dinesh, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 3, 1968, and have noted the contents. I am preparing for going away from this place for somewhere else by the end of the next week. So you can come and see me at once on receipt of this letter and we shall talk in detail. Bring the following things also along with your film tapes, namely: 1. My passport and two certificates which are lying with Chidananda. These are very important documents and bring them within your inside pocket carefully. 2. Some files and large brown enve- lopes that are lying in San Francisco. Krishna devi may not come with you because she is in mature condition. If you think your absence at this stage will not be advisable for Krishna devi’s mature stage, then don’t come. Hoping you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-9 Seattle 6th October, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 1, 1968, and some of the important points that you have tried to discuss, I am reply- ing as follows: The first thing is that in the meeting of Dr. Spock, you should eat there. But you simply eat vegetarian dishes, like fruits, nuts, boiled potato, biscuit, milk, etc., and remembering Krishna. As you will pay for the dinner, for the fooding, you can offer them to Krishna within your mind, then eat them as Krishna Prasadam. Any foodstuff when it is paid for, it becomes purified. There is a verse in Vedic literature, Dra- byamulyena Suddhati. The source of re- ceipt of the thing, may be not very good, but if one pays for it, it becomes purified. So, vegetables diet when it is paid for, you can offer it in your mind to Krishna and take it. But this Drabya means eatables, and eatables meaning vegetables, grains, milk, flowers, fruits; meat is not consid- ered an eatable—it is considered untouch- able. Just like if somebody purchases some stool, that does not mean it is now purified. So meat is like that. This Drabya means vegetables, etc. And this Dra- byamulyena Suddhati is only in special cases like this. It is not to done ordinarily, or unless in special circumstance. We should prepare our own foodstuff and of- fer as much as possible, of course. The next point is that you should dress just like perfect American gentlemen, but the sikha and telok must be very promi- nent. Coat, pants, necktie, and every- thing, Brahmachary and Grihasthas, they can put on, because you are not Sanyasi. In the temple, you can dress as Bahma- chary, but in order not to become ridicu- lour in the eyes of others, outside you should dress just like a very nice perfect aristocratic American. So there is no ob- jection. But we must have always our te- lok and sikha and there is no compromise for this purpose. Regarding Kirtanananda’s payment of $100, that is known to you and me also, 538 Letters from Srila Prabhupada but why they forget that they have taken also $500? This is known to Janardan and everyone. So I paid I think $200 from San Francisco, and $300 from New York, what about this money? Anyway, if they are financially weak they may not pay im- mediately, but they must pay that $500. So in this way, try to adjust things. In future, of course, whenever books and other things will be supplied from New York, you should immediately supply a bill, so that you may know how much out of the bill they have paid—not only to Montreal, any center—that should be the system. The next point is what about Achyuta- nanda and Jayagovinda? I have not heard from them since a very long time. You should immediately write to them why they have become silent all of a sudden. It is not good for them to remain in India as guests of this person or that person, with- out doing something tangible for our soci- ety. Achyutananda wanted to come back, so it was very welcome suggestion. But I think he might have changed his decision again. I do not know what to do with this boy. And if they want to remain in India, they must do something tangible work for our society. If not, they may come back. There is vast work here. And recently I have received letter from Mukunda that from South America, Guiana, it was un- der the possession of British, one Mr. Dindayal is very much anxious to get us there. So we have to open so many branches all over the world. So why they are sitting idly in India? Please write to them also. And what about United Shipping Cor- poration? Have you placed order for mri- dangas and other things, covering them money due from them? Regarding the dust cover of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya: I have found out two mistakes. One mistake is on the first flap, when Bhagavat reference is given, the canto is 11, not 9. So it should XI, not IX. So please rectify this. Another is on the last page of the flap, there’s one word as raptuous, in the recommendation of Mr. James Howard, Life; I do not find any word as raptuous. The real word is raptur- ous. So you consult the dictionary, and do it nicely. I think Seattle branch will come out very successful, because we have drawn the attention of the students of the univer- sity here. One girl came to see me, as rep- resentative of the student paper, and we had a nice discussion. But another thing, that the priestly class of Christian and Jews churches, I think they are becoming envious of our movement. Because they are afraid of their own system of religi- osity, because they see so many young boys and girls are taking interest in this system of Krishna Consciousness. Natu- rally, they are not very satisfied. So we may be facing some difficulty by them in future. So, we have to take some precau- tion. Of course, this priestly class could not do anything very nice till now, but dogmatic way. of thinking is going on. So any way, we shall have to depend on Krishna, and I think the new center in United Nations, if we make nice propa- ganda from there, then this tendency may be diminished. In the United Nations cen- ter, Ihave already suggested Purushottam things to be done there, and if possible, we shall hold meeting and kirtan in the church center and distribute Prasadam, invite the prominent members of the United Nations, this is, I am thinking like that. I do not know what Krishna desires. Yes, your thinking about my health; yes by the Grace of Lord Nrsingha, I am not in bad health. Rather I have improved since I have come from India back. So Nr- singhadev surely will save me from any attack of Maya, because I am engaged in His service. But after all, the law of nature must be obeyed, in spite of our very nice care, this body must be ended. And before OCTOBER, 1968 539 ending this body, we must have to finish our business to serve Krishna. Regarding Florida: There is very good chance to open a branch there, and they have invited us, and 10 or 15 people are ready to attend our meetings, so I am thinking of sending Mahapurusha there, with some other assistant. Another thing, this is of course, private, that Hayagriva may be willing to marry some of our Brahmacharinis. So I shall be glad to hear from you which Brahmacharini you may suggest suitable for Hayagriva. In fact, unless our Brahmacharies are very ada- mant remaining as Brahmachary, I shall recommend everyone to marry. Because these girls generally come to our society to find out a suitable husband, so there is no harm to live as husband and wife, as Mukunda, Gurudas, and Shyamsundar, they are living very nicely. Similarly, oth- ers Murari also living. So this is not bad. But if one can live as Brahmachary, that is very good. So you can suggest me pri- vately which girl can be suitable for Haya- griva. I am glad that you have sent Back To Godhead to Sumati Morarjee, I have also sent here two copies from here. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, P.S. I hope you have talked with Garga- muni about DiaNippon affairs. Do things nicely and tactfully. You are the son of a great businessman so I have nothing to teach. May Krishna save you. Hari bole. 68-10-10 Seattle 6th October, 1968 My Dear Jayapataka, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter Sept. 25, 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. I am very much concerned about yourself that you have been injured, by working; I do not know what sort of ougre-karma you were doing, but whatever you do, you must becareful. Your body is dedicated to Krishna, therefore you should not be ne- glectful about your body. You should al- ways think that your body is no more your body, but it is Krishna’s body. Therefore you should take care of it. So far studying Bengali, of course if you can do with spare time, I have no objection. But I don’t think there is any importance in studying Bengali. It is too late now to study Bengali and become a scholar, nei- ther Bengali is very useful in your country and this part os the world, but there are many literatures in Bengali. If you can study conveniently, then spare your time; otherwise, do not waste your time. If you have got some time, the best thing would be to chant Hare Krishna more and more. Because our life is very short, and we have to finish our Krishna Consciousness this life very quickly. We do not know when we shall meet our next death, our next exit from this platform. But before going out of this platform, we may try to finish Krishna Consciousness. That is our main business. I have not heard anything about publi- cation of our Back To Godhead in French language. What about the printing in mimeograph machine? I am very much anxious to hear about it. Please issue the mimeograph copies of Bacj To Godhead as soon as possible. And Hansadutta we wrote me about starting some press, but I have not heard anything about the press starting. I am interested in starting the press, so if you can manage it will be very nice. Another thing, you ask Janardan why he does not write me since I have come back to New York from Montreal. I have not heard anything from him. So I am also interested to know whether he is doing translation work or not. Please ask him to write me. And also, I have written one letter to Hansadutta that please ask 540 Letters from Srila Prabhupada him to reply me as soon as possible. Here in Seattle, things are going nicely, and it may be from here I may go to Florida. There is some friend in Florida who wants to help us to open a center there. All of you please chant Hare Krishna, and hear the sound vibration, and serve Krishna and Spiritual Master to your best capacity and everything will be all right. Please offer by blessings to all the devotees and I am expecting letters es- pecially from Hansadutta and Janardan. Hope this will find you in good health, Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle 6th October, 1968 68-10-11 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 2, 1968, as well as your telegram dated Oct. 3, 1968, reading as follows: Have ob- tained UN office. $100 monthly. Letter follows. Isokrishna Purushottam. In the meantime it is understood that everything is complete, and it is all Krishna’s Grace that we have got a center in the United Na- tions. And you shall be in charge of the of- fice as the secretary, and if possible, I may be living with you for conducting this of- fice specifically. The activities of this of- fice will be simply to educate the United Nations people, the leaders of all nations, and the representatives of all nations, about our missionary activities, analyzing the present society’s position, and how they can be elevated to the right position. So we have to make vigorous propaganda work from these centers to people of the whole world. So let us see how Krishna helps us, but I think by getting this office, we have opened a new door to our Krishna Consciousness movement. So you should learn in the meantime typewriting very nicely because you have to write so many letters till we get some other assistant. Another proposal is if it is possible to get a nice apartment nearby, then it will be great facility, because if I live there, with you, we can attend the office and live in the apartment. I do not insist this proposal immediately, but I am thinking in that way. Anyway, we have to utilize this office very nicely for pushing forward the cause of Krishna Consciousness. I am enclosing herewith also one letter for Brahmananda, which please deliver to him. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have very much appreciated your discussion in the Istogosti and so also Ray- rama’s. We have to collect men for Krishna Consciousness & therefore we may not be harsh to them. 68-10-12 Seattle 7th October, 1968 My Dear Tosan Krishna, Please accept my blessings. I was in due receipt of your letter dated Sept. 30, 1968, but for want of time I could not re- ply earlier. I am pleased to learn that you are finding association with Subal very nice, because he is a sincere devotee of Krishna. Certainly you will find a good association. Regarding your question about this planet and Krishna’s coming here, you may note that Krishna comes within this universe once in one day of Brahma. Du- rationof Brahma’s day is very very long, it is stated in the Bhagavad Gita—432 crores of years forms the duration of 12 hours of Brahma’s day. And similarly, there are 12 hours of night, so after 864 crores of years, Krishna comes in this universe, and whenever He comes, He of course, appears on this planet, that is the fortune OCTOBER, 1968 541 of the people of this planet. We should know very clearly that Krishna is the Su- preme Personality of Godhead. He is nei- ther Indian nor American, as much as the sun is neither Indian nor American. The original name of this planet is called Bharata Varshya, and before that it was known as Elavati Varshya. Now since the day of Emperor Bharata, this planet is know as Bharata Varshya, but in course of time, the human race divided, therefore we find so many other names. But the ori- ginal name of this planet is Bharata Varshya, and in the Vedic literature, it is stated that anyone who takes birth on this planet, they are very fortunate. Because it is the special planet where Krishna de- scends when He comes. Regarding your proposal to become a doctor, because your mother wants to prosecute your education, I think if you can learn Krishna Consciousness per- fectly, by reading our different literatures, and books, you will be a better doctor than the ordinary physician. The ordinary phy- sician may cure the disease of the body, but if you become advanced in Krishna Consciousness, you will be able to cure the disease of the soul for many many per- sons. And that is more important than a doctor or medical practitioner for curing the disease of this body. However we may be expert for keeping this body fit, it is sure and certain that this will end. But if you can protect the soul from being fallen a victim of this material existence that is a greater service. In some of the Vedic lit- eratures, it is said that Atmanan Sarvato Rakshet, that means one should give first protection to the soul. Then he should take care of his particular type of faith, then he should take care of the material things, namely this body, and anything in relation with this body, or wealth. Please try to read all our books very carefully, and whenever there is any doubt, you ask me, and be expert preacher. That will make you a great doctor for protecting the hu- man society from being fallen a victim to maya. I hope this will meet you in good health, Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I am sorry I could not mention any activities here in Seattle activities are go- ing very nicely. The Samkirtan party is selling daily 50 to 100 copies of Back To Godhead, and they are collecting 30 to 50 dollars, and the students of the Washing- ton University, they are little bit attracted. I heard that yesterday in the love feast, there were attendance about 20 guests, and so the affairs in this branch is going very well. And I hope that you can also try to advance the cause of the center at Santa Fe. Because Subal may go to New York to help Rayarama in the Back To Godhead activities. ACB 68-10-13 Seattle 7th October, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated October 2, 1968, and I am very much pleased to learn that you have secured a very good apart- ment of 5 rooms, and it is very near to your office. I have received one letter from Pradyumna as well as Kirtanananda Maharaj, from New Vrindaban, and I am enclosing herewith the replies of Pra- dyumna’s letter; I hope he has be this time come to you. Your statement ‘‘within the month I hope to have some students chanting” is very encouraging for me. Sanskrit is the mother of all languages; there is no doubt about it. In our childhood, we read one grammar made by two English profes- sors, Mr. Rowe and Webb, in Calcutta, Presidential College, and they have given 542 Letters from Srila Prabhupada their statement that Sanskrit is the mother of all languages. Besides that, we under- stand from reliable resources, that San- skrit is the spoken by the higher planetary denizens. It is therefore called Devana- gari. Devanagari means the cities of the demigods. This language is spoken there. And so far, AUM is concerned, actually, the AU, the alphabet A, is the basic princi- ple of all languages. And Krishna says, Aksaranan Akarasmi the A amongst all al- phabets, is Krishna. Because A is the be- ginning of all language. A or Au. So your representation that Sanskrit is the origin of Indo-European languages, is quite right, but our main concern is how we can impress people about the importance of Krishna Consciousness, and your schol- arly presentation of the Anglo-Saxon lan- guage is very much pleasing to me; I hope in future you have to move amongst the scholars, representing our Krishna Con- sciousness movement, so I am glad that you are thinking in that way for our future program. Regarding your enemy, Mr. Lust: I have noted the difficulties, but we should always remember that Krishna is stronger than any demon, and Mr. Lust, or his fa- ther or his grandfather, nobody can do anything provided we take shelter of Krishna very tightly. Now so far your per- sonal matter is concerned, you are a Brahmachary, you can marry at any time, and in New York, all the nice girls, they are actually very suitable for our students, and I encourage that all the Brahmacha- ries may be very responsible, and marry one of the girls. Because generally the girls desire good husband and a good home, children, that is their natural pro- pensity, so we want to show some ideal householders also. But the proposal that marriage will solve the question of lust, is not practical. Neither wife should be ac- cepted as a machine for satisfying our lust. The marriage tie should be taken as very sacred. One who marries for subdu- ing lust is mistaken. Because lust cannot be satisfied simply by indulging in sense gratification. It is compared with that ex- tinguishing the fire with large amount of petrol. For the time being, the fire may appear to be extinguished by pouring a large quantity of petrol, but the petrol it- self is so dangerous that at any time, it can be in flame. So tosubdue lust is a different process. Then you have to take to Deity worship. I am sending herewith one copy of the process of Deity worship. Krishna is Madan Mohan. You have already stated in your letter, it is very nice, that you would much prefer to channel all your de- sires to Krishna, and you ask me how is this possible when enveloped in maya, seeing only material forms. You have also written to say that if you can see the Abso- lute Beauty which is all-attractive, then you could not help but be attracted and would scorn mundane beauty. This is ac- tually the remedy. So you may take imme- diately to the Archan, the Deity worship. Kirtanananda Maharaj has also begun Deity worship in New Vrindaban, and Pradyumna knows how he is doing, and similarly, in New York, Brahmananda is also engaged now in the Deity worship, and the process is a little difficult, in the beginning, but one habituated, it is not at all difficult. So apart from the marriage proposal, you may immediately take to Deity worship. I am sending herewith one copy of the process of Deity worship, and compiled by Brahmananda, that will help you and Pradyumna also knows, so com- bined together, you immediately begin Deity worship as Kirtanananda and Brahmananda is doing, and I am sure this process, helped by your regular chanting, will kill Mr. Lust, rest assured. Of course, when you begin, I am at your service always, and give you sug- gestions and ways and means to make prog- ress in the Deity worship, but you can immediately adopt this principle. OCTOBER, 1968 543 Now so far teachings to the students, I think in New Vrindaban we shall have our own institution for teaching some boys, and I think you can be recognized principle of that institution. So far I understand, that the law of your country is that nobody can keep youngsters without being sent into the schools, so there are many juvenile Brahma- charies in San Francisco and their mother is perplexed where to send them. So I shall re- quest you to think on this matter how we can organize a small party of Brahmacharies’ school, so that government may recognize it, and that will be a nice program. Regarding hippies, I know hippies have no money. But in New Vrindaban, our pro- gram is that the inhabitants should produce their own food, somehow or other they should be self-independent. Otherwise, what is the use of occupying such great tract of land. If we can think of starting a small institution, I think we shall get help from government and many foundations, if they understand that we are actually a training people for building up character and health along with imparting education. The Free University program is a good proposal, and if we can introduce study of our books, Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, that will be a great success for our missionary propa- ganda, as well as financial help to our New Vrindaban scheme. In conclusion I may in- form you that you can marry anytime, and any one of the girls in New York shall be ready to marry you as soon as I say. There is no problem in that matter. And each and every girl there are very nicely trained, and you will be happy. So far Srimad Bhagavatam is concerned, now Pradyumna and yourself immediately revise the 3 volumes already published. My next attempt will be to get them in 1 volume, as I have already suggested. And we shall now avoid the Sanskrit slokas, but simply give the transliteration, translation, and the purport. Pradyumna is there he will help in transliterating the verses, and translation is there, and purport is there; there is no use of giving synonyms and equivalent of Sanskrit word in English, simply transliteration and translation, as it is now adopted in Dr. RadhaKrishnan’s Bhagavad Gita, and pur- port. In this way, we want to print each canto a book. So you begin preparing immedi- ately. The present three volumes shall only be revised to see the spelling mistakes or if there is any grammatical] discrepancy, other- wise there is nothing to be added or sub- tracted. Please try to organize the students in the State University, that will be a great service to the cause, but do it very tactfully so that the administration may not be disturbed. Hope this will find you in good health. I am sure by the Grace of Krishna you shall be able to meet the challenge offered by your enemy. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-14 Seattle 8th October, 1968 My Dear Murari, Please accept my blessings. While I was in San Francisco you were arranging for going to Hawaii. Now I understand that you have gone to New York, so I do not know whether you have changed your program. If not, I shall be glad to know when you are going to Hawaii. I under- stand from the letter of Goursundar that expert carpenters can get immediately good job there, at least $5.00 per hour. So if you go there, I think there will be no dif- ficulty for you. Anyway, I shall be glad to know your program, whether you are go- ing to Hawaii in the near future or not. 544 Letters from Srila Prabhupadc. Goursundar is doing there some work, but that is not sufficient even for maintain- ing an apartment. He is of course search- ing for a better job, but I do not think alone he can start a center there. He writes to say that the rents there are very expen- sive. So I shall be glad to hear from you. Mahapurusha is going today to Florida, and will reach there by tomor- row. But anywhere, one man show is not very prospective. So if you go to Hawaii and try to open a center, please let me know what is your program. Please offer my blessings to Lilavati and your daughter. Hope this finds you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-15 9th October, 1968 Dear Dayananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter and noted the contents. In reply, I may inform you that I have got very good appreciation for you and your good wife, Nandarani, as well as for Anniruddha. I can understand that Nandarani is little displeased with Anni- ruddha, but I think this is a family quarrel between brother and sister, and you may try to mitigate it. If it is not possible to mitigate, then I shall ask Anniruddha to leave and join the Samkirtan party, who are going very shortly in Los Angeles. I am sorry to learn that you have to remove for the present station, on account of dis- pleasure of the landlord and the tenents. All right, Krishna will give us better op- portunity. I am very pleased to learn that you have taken complete charge of the Los Angeles center, and do it very nicely, and if Anniruddha is a displeasure to Nan- darani I will ask him to join the Samkirtan Party who are going there within 10 or 12 days. In the meantimes, if possible, you try to mitigate this misunderstanding of brother and sister. Mr. Fugate in Florida has refused to accept Mahapurusha das Brahmachary who reached there yesterday. Most proba- bly he will come back or he may go to Hawaii to join Goursundar there. In fact I wish that our students, busband and wife may take charge of each center, as you have taken charge with the Los Angeles center. I am trying to entrust the Hawaii center to Goursundar and his wife Go- vinda dasi, assisted by Brahmacharies and other householders also, most probably Murari and Lilaviti will go there. So we are trying to organize a nice center in Hawaii. It may be I shall go with the Samkirtan Party to Los Angeles, and from Los Angeles to Hawaii, if I do not go to Eu- rope where my going is not yet fixed up. Please offer my blessing to Nandarani and your little child, and also Annirud- dha, and I bet to remain, Your ever well-wisher, Seattle 9th October, 1968 68-10-16 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept by blessings. I have re- ceived your letter without date, stating about the situation in Boston. On the state- ment of your letter, I can understand that it is a political situation. Of course, al- though everything includes in Krishna Consciousness, we do not wish to take part directly in controversial politics. We can take part in politics only which is sanctioned by Krishna. This political struggle by the students is different thing. It is reaction of the karma. Because both the opposing parties namely, the students who have taken shelter in the churches, OCTOBER, 1968 545 and the government force, which is com- ing to arrest them, both of them are on the same category, because when there will be question of meat eating, or supporting the slaughterhouse, both of them will agree. So the present situation is reaction of man’s sinful activities. We, specially recommend to restrain from four kinds of primary sinful activities, namely, illicit sex, intoxication, meat-eating, and gam- bling. But all these fighting people, they are cent per cent addicted to all these habits. So if they are serious of mitigating the unpalatable situation of the society, they must agree to accept Krishna Con- sciousness, otherwise, there is no possi- bility of peace in the world. Anyway the situation in Boston as you have described is not very much favorable for preaching our Krishna Consciousness, but if there is possibility of selling our Back To God- heads, that is very nice. You can take ad- vantage. So far my going to Boston, unless the students agree to hear patiently for some time, Bhagavad Gita, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, the casual lectures will not be very much beneficial. So they are not very much interested, otherwise they would have come to our classes. But I told you previously that I am prepared to go pro- vided they pay the expenses. But I think that is also not possible. So why should you take the risk? of getting me there and with great difficulty you shall maintain my expenses, I think it is not very much favorable, so we shall see later on what is to be done; for the time being let it be dropped. Students’ prayers 24 hours a day to lis- ten to the political talks and desiring the war should stop is useless. God cannot be their order supplier. First of all they act sinfully, and when there is reaction of war, pestilence, famine, and so many other na- ture’s disturbances, they pray to God for stopping them. This is not possible. Just like a criminal first of all commits theft, burglary and debauchery, and when he is captured, by the police force, if he prays to the government to stop, that is not pos- sible. So they are engaged in all sinful ac- tivities, and by natures’ law, there must be reaction. I am encouraging now cow kill- ing or animal killing, and when by na- ture’s law, the turn comes upon me to be killed, if I pray I want to stop it, how it can be stopped? So their process is not very genuine. They want to make God as order supplier. So God is not order supplier. He is order giver. He orders everyone to sur- renderunto Him, and the fools and rascals who do not surrender unto Him, they want to order God in the form of so-called prayer, that He should ask material nature to stop her legal activities. That is not pos- sible. So the situation is not very favor- able, but if somebody agrees to hear Bhagavad Gita and the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, continually for some time, even they do not pay me anything, I am prepared to go and lecture. But not to take part in some political agitation. So I was awaiting your letter if I was to go to Bos- ton, now I shall prepare my next program. I think for going to Los Angeles. And my going to Europe is not yet fixed up. Regarding Jadurany: I am very glad that you are taking all precaution, and all care for the poor girl, whose health is very deteriorated, and you first of all see that she is quite strong enough, she has im- proved in health, then there is question of Krishna Conscious baby. Otherwise, for- get, better you and Jadarany become Krishna Conscious children directly, than producing Krishna Conscious baby at the present moment.Hope this will find you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Most probably we shall have our sec- retarial office in UN Church Center by the 546 Letters from Srila Prabhupada next month. I shall require some nice paintings for this important office. 68-10-17 Seattle 10th October, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I was in due receipt of your nice letter dated Sept. 29, 1968, and I was so glad to read as you write to say, “I opened the temple on Thursday and am in the process of fixing it up.” It is so much pleasing to me and what can I give you?! I can simply pray to Krishna for your long life and prosperous service to Krishna. Please do it nicely and if you think that I shall go there, I am pre- pared. I do not mind for the severe cold there, but if you think that my service will be helpful to you, you can call me, I shall go. But I am very much anxious to know about your further progress, and whether the boys, namely Krishna das, and Ut- tama Sloka, have already arrived there. I am expecting your letter containing all these informations any moment, but till now I have not got any letter. Please there- fore write all details by return mail. If you require help from Shyamsundar for carv- ing Jagganath Deity, you can ask him and he may go there for a few days. He knows German language very well. So do every- thing nicely. So the boys and girls from San Francisco who are in London, they are doing their best but till now they have not been able to find out a house on rent. I am surprised that in Germany you could find out a place without any difficulty, and why there are so many difficulties in Lon- don? So that, in spite of there being a strong group of 6 persons, headed by Mu- kunda and Shyamsundar, they could not find out a house in London, whereas you alone have already opened ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE in Berlin. Anyway, please do it nicely with help of other two boys, and let me know how you are making progress. Regarding Achyutananda, as you do not require their help, I am writing to them in India not to come at present. Per- haps you know the address of Shyamsun- dar in London; it is as follows: Samuel Speerstra; 80 Herne Hill; London S.E. 24; England. So keep in correspondence with them, and also with me regularly and make the Berlin center a first class temple of our society. We have to do so many works there. Especially translating in German language all our books and maga- zines. I think in cooperation with Shyam- sundar and the German boy, Uttama Sloka, there will be no difficulty so far language is concerned, and Krishna das will work there as jeweler, so there will be no financial difficulty also. Do everything nicely and let me know. I am trying to get one office in the Church Center of the United Nations, with an idea to confer with the heads of all churches and nations about our Krishna Consciousness movement. Here in Seattle, things are going very nicely. Last night, there was one radio program for two hours, and the Kirtan party sang so many songs and prayers very nicely. As I have no indication from European side for my going there at present, I am thinking of going to Los Angeles. But I am very much anxious to go to your newly opened center in Ger- many. Hope this finds you in good health, and in full Krishna Consciousness. May Krishna bless you. I beg to remain, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami OCTOBER, 1968 547 68-10-18 Seattle 10th October, 1968 My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. Since I re- ceived your letter dated September 26, 1968, I have not heard anything from ei- ther of you, so I am very much anxious to know about the London affairs. You will be glad to know that Shivananda has al- ready opened our Iskcon Radha Krishna Temple in Berlin. The copy of the letter which I am sending just now to him is also enclosed herewith, please find. I do not know why there is so much difficulty in finding out a house on rent. I was in corre- spondence with Mr. Webb, Annapurna’s father, and he informed me that there were so many vacant houses, churches etc., simply he wanted that somebody from our side should go to London, and see which place was suitable. So, if possible, you can see Mr. Webb. I understand that some of the Indian people there are sympathetic with you, but can they not help you in finding out a place? Regarding the money, $1655, dis- patched from Canada: I am very glad to learn that you have traced out the money and it is now safely lodged in your exter- nal sterling account. In my last letter, I asked you to deposit the money in my ac- count in London, expecting that I may be called to visit London, but I can guess that immediately there is no such prospect of my going to London, therefore I am ask- ing you to transfer the money to New York for being deposited in my account No. 0420160131, with the First National City Bank, Grand Street Branch, Grand Street at Bowery, New York, 13, N.Y. I immedi- ately require about $10,000 for paying bills of DiaNippon in Tokyo, and Mac- Millan in New York. So please transfer the money to the above account, and let me know when you have done so. As you informed me that you are going to deposit the money in the Charter Bank which has branches all over the world, it was nice proposal, but as I need the money imme- diately for paying my bill, you can transfer the money to the above mentioned bank. Here the Kirtan party headed by Ta- mal Krishna and others are doing very nicely. They are selling Back To God- head, sometimes more than a 100 copies, minimum 50 copies, and collecting dona- tions, 30 to 50 dollars everyday. So are you getting some collection by holding Kirtan in different places of London? There must be some source of income, otherwise, how you can maintain yourself there. I am also trying to get one secretarial office in the Church Center of the United Nations, with a view to confer with the heads of the United Nations, both politi- cal and ecclesiastical, to propagate our Krishna Consciousness. Please let me know replies for all the points raised herein, and offer my blessings to Mu- kunda, Janaki, Malati, Yamuna and Gurudas. I have sent some drawings to Yamuna devi for the certificates, and I hope she is taking proper care. I understand Malati is having some rheumatic condition, and it is causing pain and numbness. The best thing is to take hot baths, and massage with camphor oil, and if it is too much painful, use Sloan’s liniment. Best thing is to consult with some expert physician. The Ayervedic medicine which I could recommend is probably not available in London, but ifthere is any Ayervedic shop let me know and I shall recommend some medicine. The best thing is to chant Hare Krishna loudly. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 548 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-10-19 Seattle 10th October, 1968 My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I am sur- prised that since I have come back from Montreal I have not heard anything from you. Why you are silent? Please reply this letter immediately because I am very much anxious to hear from you. Are you doing French translation work of our books? What about the program of French publication of Back To Godhead? I wrote you from San Francisco, but I have not heard any reply from you. Please take care of this business with the American Consulate, as you will find described in Hansadutta’s letter, as soon as possible. Hoping you are well, and convey my blessings to Muna, hoping that she also is in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-20 Seattle 10th October, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings, and offer the same to Himavati and all other boys and girls in the temple. I sent one letter to you on the 1st Oct., but it appears that you have not received it, because there is no mention of this letter. I am therefore en- closing the copy of the letter herewith. I shall be much pleased if you see the house No. 722 Sherbrooke Street. And give me your report in terms of my letter as per copy enclosed herewith. This is very es- sential. Regarding the Sikh gentleman’s re- quest to use our temple for performing some Sikh religious ceremony: You know that we have refused even the Hindu peo- ple to hold demigod worship in our tem- ple, and what to speak of the Sikhs, who are not to the standard of Vedic principle. As a matter of fact, we should not allow anyone to hold any function in our temple, otherwise than Vaishnava principle. In your temple, if your finances condition is going on nicely then there is no need for allowing anyone to hold ceremonies against Vaishnava principle. If anyone wants to hold some function, they should pay to the temple at least $50.00 and we shall prepare Krishna Prasad, offer to the Deity, and as we do generally, and the same Prasad may be distributed to any- one, may he be Hindu, Christian, Sikh, etc. So if Mr. Singh agrees to this princi- ple, then he may pay you the required money to prepare Prasad, which after of- fering to the Deity, you can hand over to him, and he can offer to Guru Nanak or anyone else, and then you can distribute to the devotees. There cannot be any sepa- rate distribution of foodstuff save and ex- cept Krishna Prasadam according: to our own principles. I understand that you are moving to a separate room because Hi- mavati is feeling inconvenience, but what- ever you may do, I have no objection, but the temple now is in your charge. I want to develop the Montreal temple under your supervision. Why Janardan is not writing me letters? Does he come to the temple regularly or not? What about the French edition of Back To Godhead printed in the mimeograph machine which is already there. I am very anxious to know all these items. Please reply me as soon as possi- ble, on all these points. I am enclosing herein one letter to Janardan also, which please hand over to him, and ask him to give me reply as early as possible. I am very much anxious to hear from him. I am so glad that Krishna is enlivening you in your service attitude. This is the secret of success in Krishna Con- sciousness—unflinching faith in Krishna and in the Spiritual Master enlightens a devotee in the progressive march of OCTOBER, 1968 549 Krishna Consciousness, and keep this at- titude, and Iam sure Krishna will give you sufficient intelligence to make your life successful. Diwali ceremony can be observed in the temple by illuminating 100’s of can- dles, in different parts of the temple, and offering special Prasad to the Deity. This ceremony was observed by the inhabitants of Ayodha, the Kingdom of Lord Rama- chandra, while Lord Ramachandra was out of His Kingdom due to His 14 years banishment by the order of His father. His younger step-brother Bharat, took charge of the Kingdom and the day on which Lord Ramachandra took back the charge again from His brother, and seated on the throne, this is observed as Diwali func- tion. This is the original idea of Diwali, and Deepabali. Deepabali means the same thing—Deepa means candles, and bali means numerous. When numerous candles are lighted it is called Deepabali. In India, this Deepabali function is cele- brated in a special auspicious occasion. This Deepabali function can be observed on 21st October, and Prasad can be dis- tributed on the 22nd October, during day- time, which is known as Govardhan Puja and Annakuta Ceremony. In India, in all Vaishnava temples, this ceremony is ob- served and 100’s of people are given Pra- sad according to the capacity of the temple. So I understand that last year the Deepabali Ceremony was held in the tem- ple, and there was collection of $130.00. So you can do the needful. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have received one letter from the Consulate General of the United States of America, letter No. MTL-V-14 (CAN) 10°C, giving me appointment date on Oc- tober 25, at 9:30 a.m. at Montreal. So in that connection I am enclosing herewith a letter addressed to the Consulate General there. This letter may be personally borne by Janardan, or if he is busy, your self. And get the papers transferred to their Vancouver Consulate Office, and let me know the result immediately. This is very URGENT, and should be done immedi- ately. Let me know immediately the result of your meeting with the Consulate Gen- eral, by return of post. You can see in this connection one young gentleman Mr. Peter R. Jones U.S. Vice-Consul and he will help you. Enclosure 3 68-10-21 Seattle 11th October, 1968 My Dear Ananda, Please accept my blessings. I may in- form you that I may go to Vancouver sometimes in the next week or so. When exactly I shall go there, I shall inform you in my next letter. In the meantime, you please drop this enclosed letter in the mail box, after put- ting on it an airmail stamp (Canadian), immediately. This letter is very UR- GENT, and should be posted immediately upon your receipt of it. And please reply this letter immedi- ately. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-22 Seattle 13th October, 1968 My Dear Achyutananda and Jayagovinda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your joint letter dated Oct. 4, 1968, redirected from New York, and along with another separate let- ter from Achyutananda explaining your desire to come back to USA and fight the 550 Letters from Srila Prabhupada case of draft board. It is a good sugges- tion, because if you won the case on the ground that you have adopted a different order of life, in search of the Absolute Truth, then that will be a great precedent for all our boys who are victims under such act. But still it is doubtful because the government is bent upon recruiting young men for the military purpose. This is one side. Another side is that your mis- sion was to serve the cause of the society and if both you and Jayagovinda come back without doing anything in India, it will be a mark of defeat on your part. I think you should try once more on the fol- lowing line of action to work for the society: That is, you make your headquarters in Vrindaban, because as there is no possi- bility of printing my books under your su- pervision in Delhi, why should you remain in Delhi without any society’s work? If you find Vrindaban inconven- ient, you go to Bombay because Mr. Karambar is ready to receive you. Jaya- govinda’s idea that if you go there to Bom- bay, Mr. Karambar may force him to marry his daughter, is simply imagina- tion, because his daughter is only 9 or 10 years old. How she can be married in this tender age? I do not know who has sug- gested all these nonsense ideas. Bombay is a place where there are many many rich merchants who will be glad to donate money simply for our Back To Godhead magazine. There are many such magazines published from Bombay, and they collect Rs. 200-5—as donation for each page, simply for the advertise- ments of their name—that the page is do- nated by such and such person. You can distribute the magazines to such persons and very easily collect Rs. 100-200 daily, if you are good workers. If you find incon- venience at Mr. Karambar’s place, then I shall give you many other friends names in Bombay who will be glad to help you. There are many Vaishnavas in Bombay, and they are very rich and charitable also. And if they are convinced that Krishna Consciousness is being propagated in for- eign countries, and you American stu- dents are working in India, surely you will be welcome. As a matter of evidence, you have seen Seth Dalmia’s attitude, how he has helped you with monthly allowances and all. So you have to pick up such many persons, and if you work combinedly to- gether, strictly following my instructions, Iam sure you will be successful. So before returning either to Germany or USA both of you should give a try in Bombay. If you fail there, also, however, then there will be no other alternative than to return back to your own place. But before going either to Bombay or coming back to your country or Europe, please try to realize Rs. 2000 from Hit- sharan, because if you come back without realizing this money, and I am here, then the money will be swallowed up by him, as you have already given me hints that he is a debtor. I am enclosing herewith the copy of the letter in which Hitsharan ac- knowledge receipt of Rs. 2000 for pur- chasing paper for printing my books. But now it appears that he has spent this money for personal expenditures, and has not returned the manuscript to you. You should see Seth Dalmia at his home: No. 2, Tilak Road, New Delhi, and explain to him and try to realize the money through his influence, and purchase the Deities as I have requested. I have already written you about this in my last letter, that we re- quire many Deities for our temples as well as for our many devotees who want to worship Radha Krishna at home. So we want to introduce thie Deity worship in this country and as such, we may require 100’s of pairs of Deities of different sizes, and many other goodies in this connec- tion. So if you remain there as our repre- sentatives there will be tremendous possibility of working for our society. OCTOBER, 1968 551 After all you have to work with confidence and faith in Krishna, under my direction, and I am sure you will come out success- ful. Anyway, my last request is that is you have decided to come back, please help me in realizing the money from Hit- sharan, through the influence of Seth Dal- mia or Hanuman Prasad Poddar. And purchase some Deities with the money, and then come back, and what can I say more? In case you have to take legal pro- ceedings against Hitsharan then I have got a lawyer friend at Delhi, whose name is as follows: Bepimbehari Misra; 7 Deputy Gung; Sadar Bazarre. You can see him. The thing is you have to become a little en- thusiastic and give up the idea of being guest of somebody and live peacefully. Jayagovinda, your article “Rishikesh” is published in Back To Godhead. It has come out very nice. If you send such arti- cles of different pilgrimages, that will be also a great service. You have got artistic idea, so please take courage and act en- thusiastically. Do not depend on some- body, and become confined there. So on receipt of your reply of this letter I shall give you my final decision about your re- turning back. Hope you are both in good health, Your ever well-wisher, 68-10-23 Seattle 13th October, 1968 London My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated October 7, 1968. And I have noted the contents carefully. I think the process which you have adopted is quite all right. Now everything is clear to me; you can go on with your procedure. So far the origi- nal text of our aims and objects of the soci- ety, I have read it and I don’t think there is any need of changing the preamble. But so far section of the law is concerned, that has to be altered according to the English law. So do it and execute the document as soon as possible, and I think Krishna is helping you in the proper channel, and as you were the first signatory in the docu- ment which was registered in New York, and you shall be the first signatory in the document which is to be registered in En- gland, along with your good wife. So three male members and four Englishmen members, it is nice. I want Englishmen to join more than from the Indian commu- nity because they are not fixed up, neither they are very serious about Krishna Con- sciousness. They are more interested in something else. In the meantime, I have received one letter from Ginsberg, and he writes to say that he has written to some friend in En- gland, to help you and one of his friends he names, Mr. Tom Driberg, M.P., and he has promised to help you, and sent let- ter to Mr. Ginsberg. So you will contact him. He is a prominent member, Mr. Tom Driberg, M.P. Mr. Ginsberg says that he can help you in all matters of official and legal implications. So try to meet him as soon as possible, and do the needful. I hope in the meantime you have re- ceived my letter addressed to Shyamsun- dar and I may be going to Vancouver from here for a few days to take my immigration visa. And they have called me on the 25th October, they have called me from Mon- treal, but I am requesting to dispatch the file to Vancouver and let me see what Krishna desires. If Anapurna dasi can be included amongst the preliminary floaters, that is very nice. She is English girl, and her mother and father is also interested. So Anapurna is included then we shall have solid four members from our side and gradually we shall do the needful. Simi- larly, Anapurna’s brother also can be in- cluded, because he is also interested. He 552 Letters from Srila Prabhupada came to our temple, both in New York and San Francisco, so if need be you can call Anapurna from San Francisco immedi- ately. She wrote me letter that she is pre- paring to go. In Columbus University, Hayagriva is doing very nicely. He is trying to have classes in the University, and the situation is very hopeful. Similarly, here also the Washington University students, they have taken interest in our movement, and one Christian gentleman, he did not like our men to speak at the University, be- cause University is a secular. But he has been very strongly criticized by the stu- dent community. Here is a note for Janaki: My Dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter, very nice letter. You have expressed very nice sentiments and this shows that you are positively ad- vancing in Krishna Consciousness. Your talk with the Indian ladies and gentlemen is very interesting. They inquire from you, and they are astonished that you are very serious. That means they are not at all serious. They take Krishna Con- sciousness as something fictitious. So they are not very hopeful combination, but try to make them interested as far as possible, it is our duty. We do not mind whether he is Englishman or Indian or any man; our duty is to impress Krishna Consciousness as far as possible. An- swering your puzzle, it may be said that a pure devotee is he who loves Krishna, without any material desire. People are generally engaged in karma. Karma means work and get the result and enjoy life. And jnana, jnana means speculating process to understand the Absolute Truth. So one who does not indulge in speculating habit, neither tries to gain something by his work, but simply en- gages himself in the service of the Lord, he is called a pure devotee. Such pure devotees are very rare. But by the Grace of Krishna, practically all the devotees and disciples who have kindly joined me, they are, their symptoms are pure devo- tees. Even if they have got some ulterior desire, that will be removed very soon, because they have taken to the pure pro- cess of Krishna Consciousness. Hope this will meet both of you in good health, and awaiting your good news by next mail. Thanking you once more for writ- ing me, Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle October 14, 1968 68-10-24 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Your let- ter of Oct. 10, 1968 with press cutting is very much encouraging. When a devotee is seriously prepared to serve Krishna, the Lord gives him both intelligence and Opportunity to serve Him more and more, so that the serving devotee may ul- timately reach the Lord without any doubt. The symptoms appear to be as above mentioned. Please therefore uti- lize the opportunity of service diligently and it will be a great spiritual achieve- ment for you and a great service to your country and community. My programme for European tour is not yet fixed and as such I shall be glad to go to Columbus as soon as you call me. I wish to see also New Vrindaban very soon. I hope you have received my letter previous to this. Hope this finds you all in good health. Yours ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami OCTOBER, 1968 553 68-10-25 Seattle 15th October, 1968 My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your two letters dated October 10, and 11, and noted the contents carefully. My first thanks are due to my dear gandson Mr. Eric, who is so kind to pray for my good health. So offer my blessings and thanks to the good child, and I am also praying to Krishna for his long life and prosperity. Regarding Mr. Fugate in Florida: I have read the letter, the copy of which you have sent to me, and I am forwarding it to Nandarani. Because she is also very much surprised at the behavior of Mr. Fugate in connection with Mahapurusha. After all, this class of men, they are falsely puffed up that they know something about mysti- cism, but actually they want to be flattered by somebody. So they are keeping some spiritual master or instructor, means to keep them as pet dog and cat. I think Ma- hapurusha may not have spoken anything which is very offensive, but he was so in- tolerant that he could not give him shelter even for one day. So he was so angry. That is not the sign of a mystic. Anyway, please try to deal with him softly because he has got some tendency for spiritual upliftment of his life, but he is misguided or without any knowledge in the line. Neither he is ready to accept any bonafide instructor, this is his position so far I can understand. There is a proverb in Sanskrit that you speak truth but don’t speak unpalatable truth. When you speak the truth it must be very palatable. So this social convention is not applicable to a person who is preaching the Absolute Truth. Absolute Truth is not dependent on material plea- sure or unpleasure. I think Maha- purusha’s personality did not impress upon him, but so far I know, his behavior could not be anything offensive. So forget the incident, but our mission is to preach Krishna Consciousness, and if possible, try to tackle this gentleman. Because he has got some inclination toward Krishna Consciousness, so let us try, to help him as far as possible. So continue correspon- dence with him, and let us see how we can deal with him later on. Preaching in this center, Seattle, is also going on nicely. The students are try- ing to understand our philosophy, and in spite of some counter-propaganda by one Mr. Miller, a Christian minister, that we are trying to impress some religious prin- ciples. Still they have invited and they are hearing, so things are going on nicely here. And so far London, and Berlin is concerned, things are progressing nicely, and Mukunda is trying to establish a bona- fide branch of our society in London, with cooperation of Englishmen; Mr. Alan Ginsberg, he is also trying to help Mu- kunda by introducing with some influen- tial men there, so I think this future is hopeful. So far your Buffalo center is con- cerned, you are trying your best, and Krishna will help you. Go on doing like that, and our business is to try our best. Result we leave it for consideration of Krishna, and we shall not be disappointed whether the result is favorable or unfavor- able. Actually there cannot be any unfa- vorable result, because we are serving Krishna. One person may be or may not be inclined to accept Krishna Conscious- ness, but that doesn’t matter, but if we try our best to make one person Krishna Con- scious, then our duty is carried nicely. That is recognized by Krishna. In Sanskrit it is said Yatne Krite Yadina Sidehati Kotra Dosah. That means, in spite of our best efforts, if things do not come successful, then there is no fault on our side. That should be the principle of our preaching, we Shall try our best to convince others in Krishna Consciousness, and Krishna will be pleased, that is our gain. 554 Letters from Srila Prabhupada From Seattle, for a day or two, or ut- most for a week, I may go to Vancouver, then I shall go to Los Angeles. Perhaps you know that we are trying to take one of- fice in the Church center of the United Nation, with an idea that we may try to propagate our Krishna Consciousness movement, amongst respectable leaders of the nations who are attached to the United Nations, so Purushottam is corres- ponding and trying to arrange for this, let us see, how Krishna helps us. I hope this will meet you in good health, I am Your ever well-wisher, P.S. Srimati Rupamanjari will certainly be pleased upon you as you are engaged in Krishna’s service. 68-10-26 Seattle 15th October, 1968 My Dear Chidananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated October 11, 1968, and I have noted the contents care- fully. I also thank you for sending my pass- port along with the two certificates which I have duly received yesterday and I am uti- lizing it for my medical examination, and other activities in connection with my per- manent visa in USA. It is so much encour- aging that your Samkirtan party is going everyday collecting some money and en- couraging also that you are selling Back To Godhead. Similarly the Samkirtan party here also led by Tamal Krishna is doing very nicely. I understand that the son of Tu- lasi devi, Karnapur, has chosen coins in his Annaprashan ceremony. It is very nice. I think this boy will earn enough money for spreading Krishna Consciousness. Hope this will meet you in good health, Iam Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-27 Seattle 15th October, 1968 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your two letters, dated September 30, 1968, and the other one, October 9. I am very sorry I could not reply you earlier, because there are so many letters, and I have to reply them one after another. Anyway, the issue of Back To Godhead which you have sent me is very very nice, and Krishna is helping you for your sincere efforts. I hope you will continue this attitude and improve the quality and writing of Back To Godhead both nicely. It is also gratifying that Subal has joined you and so also Bhaktajan has come back to assist you. Now I think you have got sufficient staff, and you may not require the help of the boy, Chintamoni in Montreal. I think that he’s required there to assist Hansadutta. I have received letter from him. I have noted with great attention your statement that you are sitting at one desk in a tiny office, room, which is fero- ciously hot in summer and freezing cold in winter. So people might think you mad if they heard of your crazy work. So spiri- tual activities are like that. Sometimes my contemporaries from India, they also write that in this age, the age of 73, when people would naturally like to retire, and I am working here. So this is all possible by Grace of Krishna. Krishna can adjust op- posing elements. In the material world, yes and no are two opposing element, but by Krishna’s inconceivable power, yes can be no. and nocan be yes. That is the law of Krishna. And austerity, Krishna Con- sciousness, there is some austerity. So we should not be afraid of any condition. Narayana Parasarve Na Kutaschana Vivyati—that means, those who are in Krishna Consciousness, they are not afraid of anything. Either they are in hell, or heaven, for them, they are all equal. They do not make any distinction in the material world; this is good, or this is bad, this is hell, or this is heaven. Your idea of issuing a special issue con- cerning the Varnashram dharma, and Gan- dhi’s movement; it is very good idea. And actually India’s position is now degraded; it is not advancing. They have lost their ori- ginal culture, and now they are begging from outside. So actually they have not gained by sacrificing their original culture. Of course, this superficial loss of original culture is visible only to the so-called edu- cated person at the present moment, and they have become befooled as it is stated in the Bhagavad Gita: Mayaya.Prihatajnana, their knowledge has been taken away. So if you try to criticize that will be of some value because you are outside purview of the Indian government, but do it very care- fully, so that you may not offend anyone. But you must speak the right thing. I shall send you some matters also, that how many rascals and fools are employed in the gov- emment service who deride at Krishna, because they think that He was black, therefore low-born. In this way, how much they have become degraded. Jayagovinda’s article on Rishikesh, is very nice. If he sends such articles from India, it will help you very much. Regarding your constitution making: don’t be very much hasty, immediately, as try to do it slowly. Because your first busi- ness is to organize Back To Godhead. And besides that, whatever you do, first of all send me a copy and then distribute. Regarding my letter heading: Don’t complete it now. Because if we get our of- fice in the Church Center of the United Nations, I'll have to make a different body of letterhead. So I shall let you know when everything is complete. Hoping this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami OCTOBER, 1968 555 P.S. Please send Back To Godhead com- plimentary copies regularly at the follow- ing address. (1) His Holiness B.R. Sridhar Maharaj Sri Chaitanya-Saraswat Matha P.O. Nabadwipa, Kolergunge, Dist: Nadia W. Bengal India Hari Krishna Agarwal President— Vedanta Centre Premkutir, Churchgate reclamation Bombay 68-10-28 Seattle 15th October, 1968 London My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your two letters dated Nov. 8, one addressed to Jayananda, and I am pleased to note the contents. So far Mr. George Harrison is concerned, he prom- ised to call Dayananda, but he has not done so. Therefore I think it is not proba- ble to meet him. It doesn’t matter, let us grow slowly but surely. Let us try our best to spread this Krishna Consciousness movement with sincerity. And Krishna will give us all facilities. After all, it is Krishna’s business. We are simply servi- tors. Our sincere desire is to serve Him and this is our bonafide position. Krishna says that we should give up all engage- ments and be seriously in Krishna Con- sciousness and surrender unto Him. We believe in this philosophy and we try to follow the principles and we instruct oth- ers also to follow the same path. That is our bonafide position. We are represen- tative of Krishna because we present Krishna’s order as it is. And therefore we are bonafide representative. If somebody inquires whether we are as good as 556 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Krishna, the reply is that it does not mat- ter. We may not be as good as Krishna, and that is also not possible anyway. Krishna is great and we are minute parti- cles. So how we can become as good as Krishna. This is false theory of the Maya- vad philosophers. But we sincerely serve Krishna, we are sincere servants of His Lordship, and we present things as pre- sented by Krishna, and that is the test of our bonafide position and our bonafide presentation. So don’t be worried, do your best and success or failure does not matter. Krishna is absolute, so there is no such thing as success or failure in Krishna Consciousness, or in other words, there is no question of failure in Krishna Con- sciousness, whatever we do it is success. Whatever one may do in the material world, if he is even Rockerfeller, it is all failure, defeat, because it will not exist be- yond this body. He does not know that next life I may be dog or cat. But whatever service we can do for Krishna, even if somebody is not able to execute fully Krishna Consciousness, whatever amount of service he does it never goes in vain. It will eternally remain. And it will act. Even somebody does small amount of ser- vice, and not even very willingly, still, he is assured to get human body in next birth, and chance to execute some service fur- ther. So there is no question of failure in Krishna Consciousness. It is only suc- cess. Krishna says, My devotee is never vanquished. So we must try sincerely, that’s all. 68-10-29 Seattle 15th October, 1968 My Dear Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated October 11, 1968, and I am glad to note that you are arranging for my lectures in Los Angeles in several places, so the boys and girls in the Samkirtan party they are also going very soon to Los Angeles, per- haps by the end of this week, or in the middle of this week, so far I understand. And for myself, I shall go to Vancouver for a few days by the 24th of October, and from there I shall go to Los Angeles; that is the present program. And the future rests on Krishna. So far Mr. Fugate is concerned, I can understand that he is lit- tle proud of his becoming advanced in mystic understanding. But actually by his behavior, he does not appear that he is very much advanced in spiritual matters. Anyway, he is good friend and he might have been angry on plain speaking of Ma- hapurusha, because he has not learned any social convention, so his talks might have injured Mr. Fugate’s sentiment. So you try to pacify him. In the meantime, I am enclosing one letter which he ad- dressed to Rupanuga, and from this letter it appears that he is willing to help us, so don’t reject him. Try to keep contact with him. And as he has got some inclination, for Krishna Consciousness, in future, he may come tothe right understanding. I am very much pleased with your preaching enthusiasm, when you say, “If people won’t come to us, here, we will go to them.” And this is the process of preaching, and this is required. I thank you very much for your this spirit. Just like Ihave come to your country, with the same spirit. Actually, still even in so much fallen condition of India, if one has to learn spiritual science, then he must con- sult some bonafide spiritual master, in In- dia. That is the opinion of a great Chinese author. So people are not going there, nei- ther Government has any arrangement to educate this spiritual science. So there- fore I have come to your country, and those who are eager to receive, they are coming to us. In this way, we have to for- ward our mission. We may not expect OCTOBER, 1968 557 good behavior from people where we go to preach, still we have to do that. The best example is Lord Jesus Christ, he was cru- cified by the people who were not very much advanced. From their behavior it may be known that the people at that time or at least the place where Lord Jesus Christ preached, they are not very much advanced, otherwise they would not have dared to crucify such a nice saintly per- son. So preaching work is always like that. But one who is real preacher, he shall be undeterred, and go on keeping his ob- jective to the satisfaction of the Supreme Lord. Regarding your question: The spirit soul of Krishna’s entourage, all the asso- ciates of Krishna or anyone situated in Vaikuntha the spiritual sky, nevermind, either in Vaikunthas or in Krishna Loka, they have no separate body. Just like Krishna has no differentiation between body and soul, similarly, those who are transferred or living eternally in the spiri- tual sky, they haven’t got also such distinc- tion, between spirit and body. The body is also spiritual and the soul is also spiritual. Not only the body, everything, all spiri- tual. The spiritual world is expansion of Krishna’s spiritual or internal energy. So there is no difference of body. But if somebody comes from the spiritual world for material activities, he has to accept the material body, but that is not applicable in the case of the Supreme Lord. Because he does not come to the material world for some material enjoyment. Mayavadi phi- losophers they also say that when God comes also in the material world, He has to accept the material body but that is not a fact. Because even God accepts a material body, apparantly, still He does not act ma- terially. Because both material energy and spiritual energy are under the control of the Supreme Lord; as such, He is com- pletely powerful to transform matter into spirit, or spirit into matter. That is the po- sition. So far associates of Krishna, they are expansion of His spiritual energy. Regarding your question about Ravana: It is not a fact that everytime whenever Krishna comes in this material world, the demons are, like Ravana, are always asso- ciate of Krishna who come here to fight with Him. The Jaya and Vijaya incident was a specific only. Not that everytime they come. For them, the Lord’s order that they would continue only three births, and then come back. So they went back; not that everytime they have to come back and play the part of a demon. In this material world there is no scarcity of demons. There are so many demons, so Krishna has opportunity to fight with them. But that was a special case, who played the part of Ravana, Jaya and Vijaya. Although I am very busy, still it is my duty to answer all inquiries from my disci- ples, so you never hesitate to write me let- ters, and whenever there is some inquiry, you must ask me, and it is my duty to ex- plain. In the Bhakti Rasamrita Sindhu it is stated that the inquisitive disciple ad- vances very quickly in Krishna Con- sciousness. So I am very glad that you are so inquisitive, and trying to understand things in proper perspective. So I am al- ways at your service, and you are wel- come to write and inquire from me at any time. I hope this will meet you in good health, along with your child, Chandra- mukhi, and husband; please convey my blessings to them. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 Seattle 16th October, 1968 68-10-30 My dear Chandrabali, Piease accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 558 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Oct. 16, 1968, and I thank you very much for your questions. You are always at liberty to inquiry from me about all such questions in the Srimad Bhagava- tam, Bhagavad Gita, and I am so glad that you are reading all these books so carefully. That is our business—we shall chant Hare Krishan or read Srimad Bha- gavatam or or associate with devotees in the temple, so that program shall go on continually for constantly remembering Krishna, and we shall not forget Him, even for a moment. Regarding the question (In vol I, First Canto, Ch. 1, Text 1, pp. 59 of Sri- mad Bagavatam, it is stated ‘‘anyone who hands over a charity of this great work on the full moon day attains to the highest perfection of human life by go- ing back to home, back to Godhead.” Does this mean that by giving the Gaya- tri mantra, only vol. one, or the com- plete work?) it is not the Gayatri mantra, but the Srimad Bhagavatam. The idea is that in olden days there was no press. So books were not available printed. For- maly great aristocartic families kings, and rich men, they used to engage a qualified brahmin to copy Srimad Bhagavatam in handwriting, and then present it to a suitable person, espe- cially brahmins, n a gold casket. That was the system. But since printing ma- chine has been introduced, Srimad Bha- gavatam, and other liyerature are being printed. So therefore, this reference, in the Skandha Purana, is in connection with giving Srimad Bhagavatam in handwriting. That was a great work of charity. This charity, however, included the complete Srimad Bhagavatam, and neither vol. one nor two. That was the process. Still there are many rich men in India who have engaged learned brah- mains to copy Srimad Bhagavatam in handwriting, and they give in charity, to a qualified person, in the above way. Hopr this will satisfy you, and I hope this meet you in good health. Your ever-well-wisher, ACB 68-10-31 Seattle 16th October, 1968 Sri B. N. Jariwala Windsor Hotel 20-6th Street San Francisco, Calif. My Dear Jariwala, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your kind letter, dated October 14, 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. The humble service which I am rendering to the American people, in the matter of Krishna Con- sciousness, is undoubtably being re- sponded nicely by the American younger generation, and recently we are getting from educational circles also, from the college students and professors good re- sponse, so there is good potency for spreading Krishna Consciousness in the western world. And you know that we have got already fifteen branches as follows: New York City; Boston; San Francisco; Vancouver, B.C.; Canada; Honolulu, Hawaii; New Vrindaban, an ideal Krishna Consciousness community; and London, England; and Berlin, Ger- many. The London branch and the Berlin branch are doing very substantial work, and most probably I shal be going there from America to the European countries. Regarding your good suggestion about permanent organization. This institution is already incorporated in New York State, and we are opening different branches under different states. So I shall be glad if our Indian frienda in San Fran- cisco, also come in the management of the local organization; I welcome it. So I would suggest that in your presence, a OCTOBER, 1968 559 committee may be formed, combination of Indian and American, and a temple of our own may be organized, Radha Krishna Temple. So in your presence, if it possible to organize, I shall be veyr glad. And as soon as you call me I shall come to San Francisco. Because I have got an en- gagement in Montreal, from here I shall go there, and from there I can come. This is one point. Another point is that from In- dia, I am not getting sufficient encourage- ment, either from the government or from the people. Noe you have personally seen my activities and responces from the Americans, and if you kindly organize an Indian branch of the International Society fro Krishna Consciousness, it will be a great help. I am enclosong herewith a copy of the letter from Hanuman Prasad Poddar, which is sent to me unsolicited. He appreciated my activities here. And similarly I get many letters from unknown persons, but when I say some practical co- operation, they do not come forward. And so far government is concerned, they are not at all interested, that we have got our swaraj; But Hindus cannot make propaga- tion of their religious activities, even out- side of the country we are so much crippled. The Christians and Buddhists, they are making so much propaganda in India, and they are spending lots of money, but here although the response is so nice, there is no help from the people nor from the government. So after return- ing to India, if you can organize some opinion, at least the Vaishnava sect, in your Guzrat, there are so many Vaish- navas. All over there are so many Vaish- navas. So they should come forward to cooperate with me, then it will be a very nice organization. We want to esta- blish that one God, Krishna; one scrip- ture, Bhagavad Gita; one mantra Hare Krishna; and one work, service to the Supreme Lord. And people are respond- ing. So please try to cooperate with me. So far government is concerned, they will not copperate. They have become secular. But even the people do not cooperate, how it will be successful? Please, therefore, try to organize Indian opinion to cooper- ate with me, that will be a great help. And so long you are here in America, just try to induce our Guzratin friends to cooper- ate, and have our own temple, at least in San Francisco. So far the piety of my disciples is con- cerned, you know they are strictly Viashnava. They are restricted from illicit sex life, all kinds of intoxication, they do not eat anything except Krishna Prasa- dam, and they do not participate in any kind of gambling. So far piety is con- cerned, I think you will find them more advanced than some of our Indian Friends. And if our Indians friends will also cooperate in this way, it will be a great success. I thank you veyr much once more for your nice letter, and appreciation of my activities, and if you kindly cooperate with me, I shall be still more encouraged. Thanking you, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-32 Seattle 16th October, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter dated Oct. 11, 1968, and by reading the contents it was so much encouraging, for me. Pre- vious to this I received one letter from Mukunda and that was also very encour- aging, so I am sure combined together you will have a great success in starting the ISKCON temple in London. I have also received one letter from Ginsberg, that Mr. Tom Driberg is an intimate friend of Ginsberg and he has already written to 560 Letters from Srila Prabhupada him promising all help to us. So by Grace of Krishna there you are meeting nice gen- tlemen, interested gentlemen, and I hope it will come very grand success. And so far I am concerned, I may be going back again to Montreal, because there is an in- terview with the Consulate General in Montreal on the 25th Oct., and from there I may be going to Santa Fe, and from there I may be going to Los Angeles, so my pro- gram is going on here. Here also in Seattle there is working going on. And similarly I am receiving report from New Vrindaban and Columbus that our Hayagriva Brahm- achary, Professor Howard Wheeler, he is also doing there preaching amongst the students. So by the Grace of Krishna this mission is going on nicely, and I shall be glad to hear from you further good news. Please offer my blessings to your good wife, Yamuna, as well as all other devo- tees, Mukunda, Shyamsundar, Malati, Janaki, and Saraswati devi. I hope this will find you in good health. Thanking you once more for writing me. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-33 Seattle 16th October, 1968 Honolulu My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter dated 11th Oct., along with Goursundar’s. So I am enclosing one letter for you received from Nandarani. The incident in Florida is to be forgotten. Now, with new energy, and in good cooperation with Goursundar, please try to establish a nice center in Hawaii. In the meantime, Murari might have gone there, so combined together, please try to establish a nice center there. Regarding your requirement, I am hand- ing the noteto Upendra, and I hope he will do the needful. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I am very much glad to receive your letter dated the 11th Oct., and it is good news that you have got a nice room for residential pur- pose. And you have got now good assist- ant, Mahapurusha, so combined together, try to establish a very nice center in Hawaii. You organize the center in such a way that we can in future open centers in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Figi, Bangkok, Syd- ney, and New Zealand, and all neighbor- ing Pacific islands. And Hawaii will be our center for spreading Krishna Con- sciousness in the Pacific. I may be going to Vancouver or Mon- treal from here, for aday or twoto take my immigration visa, and then I may go to Santa Fe, and from there, I am going to Los Angeles. Please send me at least one letter in a week, the report of your activi- ties there, and I hope Krishna will help you in your nice endeavor. Hoping you are well, I beg to remain, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 1 68-10-34 Seattle 16th October, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 10, 1968, and I am so much grateful to you for your kind sentiments for me. It is all Krishna’s Grace that He has sent OCTOBER, 1968 561 such a nice assistants to me, for executing the mission of my Spiritual Master. Per- sonally, I am nonentity; I have come here on the order of my Spiritual Master, and He has kindly sent you all boys to assist me. So whatever is being done, there is no credit for me, but all the credit goes to my Spiritual Master, because He has ar- ranged everything, and I am simply to abide by His order. Regarding Gargamuni: All of a sudden I thought that he should go and take charge of his father’s business. And as soon as I proposed, he phoned to his fa- ther and he also was very much anxious to receive. So this is also another chance for us, that we can show a model factory. Ac- tually as you say, that we want to perfect everything with Krishna Consciousness. Our policy is that without Krishna, every- thing is zero. But zero by the side of Krishna, is 10, 100, and so on. So the whole Vaishnava philosophy is like that. The Ravana class of men, they want Sita without Rama, and therefore there is havoc. Ravana kidnapped Sita from the clutches of Ravana, and the result was that the whole nation, whole family, was van- quished. And Hanuman’s policy was to bring back Sita and let her sit down by the side of Rama. So we do not neglect any- thing, because everything is manifestation of Krishna’s energy. Krishna’s energy means Sita, and Krishna is Rama. So all material energy that are working in the material world, can be engaged in the ser- vice of the Lord. Actually, if your father fortunate, and I think he is fortunate, be- cause he has got two nice sons, so Krishna is certainly pleased on him. His present demoniac qualification is no bar for get- ting mercy of Krishna, because you are two sons present for his salvation. Just like Prahlad Maharaj—his father was atheist, and he was always inimical to his great son, but still the son was so good that he arranged for the salvation of his father. So Vaishnava son in a family can give the best service to his family members, and you are ideal two brothers in this country, and you show the example how everything can be adopted, in the service of Krishna. So I am glad that you have got all these ideas, and Gargamuni has got the energy and your father is also willing, that you should cooperate, so let us take this good chance, and try to utilize it for Krishna Consciousness movement. I am glad that MacMillan Company has agreed to give us 50%. Now out of this, 50%, 40% should be given to all cen- ters. Immediately as you receive consign- ment of books, you immediately dis- tribute, allowing the 40% and the ship- ping charges should be borne by them, and you take care of 10% for our invest- ment. That is business like. And with the supply of books, immediately bill should be submitted and you have to see that the bill is paid duly. Regarding bank refer- ence: I am sending herewith one copy of the letter of the First National City Bank, in which the balance is there. I think the balance is little more, so you can send the copy of letter to them. Besides that, I have got some money in the Trade and Trust Bank, and some money in Bank of America. In the Bank of America, Haight Clayton Branch, San Francisco, Cal., my account number is 262101746. I think that is sufficient reference for them, and they can draw the bill at 60 days sight, and supply the books to us. Regarding Hayagriva: I think you can open direct correspondence with him: in the matter of his willingness to marry, and I think he is serious about rendering ser- vice to the society. Recently he has sent me one press cutting that is very nice, and I am enclosing herewith the press cutting. If possible, you can get some copies pho- tostated. And send me some copies. Regarding Achyutananda and Jaya- govinda: I have already written them 562 Letters from Srila Prabhupada again, that do not be lethargic; be enthusi- astic. And do something for the society. So you can also write to them that they have gone there on a mission to work for the society, so they should try their best to remain in India and work for the society. Simply if they approach big business firms in Bombay, I think they can collect not less than 100 to 200 Rs. daily. But they must be enthusiastic. If they become dead bodies, then it is not possible. I do not know why American boys should be so much lethargic. And I don’t think Achyu- tananda can be engaged as leader in any group. He can work only as assistant. So you write them as far as possible. Other- wise, let them come back—what can be done? I have already written to them. I think also that Gargamuni also should be supplied with another bride. Because karmis without association of woman, cannot work. So as he is going to be a karmi—not exactly karmi, karma- yogi, so if he likes, he can marry again. But he cannot be a very strict husband, otherwise the same thing will happen. Be- cause in America, the girls are not so trained that they will be very much obedi- ent. So you think over, but if he likes, he can marry again. I have not received any reply as yet from Purushottam, but I have sent him a detailed letter about the condition on which we can occupy the office room in the Church Center. Most probably, I will have to go from here to Vancouver or Montreal to take my immigration visa, and from Vancouver I may go directly to Santa Fe, and from Santa Fe, I may go to Los Angeles. Then I shall prepare my next program. Let us see what Krishna desires. I hope this will meet you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 2 68-10-35 Seattle 17th October, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. Enclosed please find one copy of the letter which I have sent yesterday to the Consulate Gen- eral of the United States of America, at Montreal, sent by special delivery air mail, so that they may keep the file there as I am going to meet them on the appoint- ment day as they have set up, Oct. 25, 1968. I hope you have already made this arrangement. Hope everything is all right. I am coming there on the 23rd of October, 1968. I am starting from here by 7:15 air flight to Vancouver, and from there I shall catch another plane at 8:30, and reach Montreal sometime in the eve- ning, they say 6:30 Montreal time. So the flight number is No. 04, of Canadian Pa- cific Airlines—date, Oct. 23, 1968. So, as I am coming there alone, I think Hi- mavati will have to cook for me while I am there. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Seattle 17th October, 1968 68-10-36 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your long letter dated Octo- ber 11, 1968, and I am trying to reply this letter in two ways: The points of human civilization as well as about our constitu- tional program. The first thing I may in- form you that I am going to Montreal by the 23 or the 24 of October, because I have got an appointment engagement with the Consulate General of United States in the matter of my permanent visa on the 25 of Oct. in Montreal. I tried to transfer my file to Vancouver, but that will take an- other month, so instead of waiting another month, I am going there to make the mat- ter easier. So if some of you come to Mon- treal, to see me there, then we can talk in detail about the constitutional proposal as well as other things, because from Mon- treal I may go to Santa Fe. That is the pro- gram. And while coming, somebody may bring my overcoat which is hanging in my closet in the apartment. Regarding your present edition of Back To Godhead: I have already in- formed you in my previous letter that it has become very nice, andtry to continue the effort improving the quality and I think you are getting good advertisement also. And if the advertisement income is increased, you can increase the pages and reading matter along with it. You should simply accept advertisement collection for publication costs—namely, the paper and printing costs. So at present if you try to get more advertisement I think there will be no difficulty. Similarly, induce Jayagovinda and Achyutananda in India to get advertisement. If they try, people will be very glad to give advertisement in our paper, even they will be glad to mention their name only, that this space is donated by such and such. They will pay. They are prepared to pay like that. Many people are publishing nonsense magazines as they are collecting money in that way. So this is a Vaishnava magazine, and in Bombay es- pecially, there are many Vaishnavas rich men, merchants, they will be very glad that Krishna Consciousness is being preached in America, and they will do- nate space. They have got money. So let these two boys work in that way, and dis- tribute Back To Godhead free, and simply collect money for donation of space, and increase the volume of writing. I think both you and Brahmananda will request them that instead of sitting idly and talking sometimes to become this or become that; OCTOBER, 1968 563 so far Jayagovinda, he can also write nice articles, his article “Rishikesh” is nice. People will be glad to read such articles in this country. At the same time, people in India will be glad to learn that Krishna Consciousness is being preached in west- ern countries. In this way, we have to form International Society. So practically now we are in the making of, so you go on drafting the constitution, but don’t distrib- ute now. Whatever you do, you first of all show me, and the final copy will be dis- tributed, then we shall call for a meeting and then we shall adopt. Don’t distribute immediately. Anyway, try to do it conven- iently, there is no haste. But don’t distrib- ute anything without showing me. So far the constitution goes, my instruction for the present is this. Next—regarding your point: program for a spiritual world civilization—it is very nice suggestion. And practically our Krishna Consciousness movement is built on this idea, that we want to make a world civilization on the basis of spiritual under- standing. So I am giving you some points which you may expand or do it for under- standing of the people in general. But the point should be as follows: 1st point, that any civilization devoid of God conscious- ness or Krishna Consciousness, is no civi- lization at all. It is simply a polished type of animal society. This is the first point. So at the present moment, the modern civilization on the basis of so-called sci- entific knowledge and economic develop- ment is trying to avoid God conscious- ness, or Krishna Consciousness—that is the defect of the modern civlization. Therefore, in spite ofall advancement it is zero. So zero has no value. And millions of zeros put together does not make any value. But one is put on the left side of the zero, it increases the value. Then one zero becomes 10, two zero becomes 100, three zero becomes 1000, so it is very nice. This point should be clearly discussed, 564 Letters from Srila Prabhupada that without God conciousness, Krishna Consciousness, any attempt of human civilization so-called philosophical or po- litical or economical or labor, they are all zeros. The human society should be di- vided as a social order, as the intellectual men, the administrator class, and the mercantile class, and the laborer class. And so far spiritual order, they should be divided as the renounced order of life, re- tired order of life, householder, and stu- dent life. Third point, all these 8 divisions are meant for understanding the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and this Krishna Consciousness movement is meant for teaching this necessities of human civili- zation. Fourth point, so far the adminis- trator class of men, or mercantile class of men, and laborer class of men, there are many institutions but to train a first class intellectual man, there is no institution all over the world. And there is no institution for spiritual training also. So this Krishna Consciousness movement is trying to help the human society on these two points, which they are lacking. So we have there- fore taken a large tract of land to begin with, in W. Virginia, the place is called New Vrindaban. So we want to train stu- dents for becoming the first class intellec- tual person, and instruct the whole human society about the aim of life, and Krishna Consciousness or God consciousness. So we are inviting the desiring or intending students to join in our institution and we invite the public and government to coop- erate with our movement. The fifth point is that in whatever division one may be situated, this very aim of life should be to satisfy the Supreme Personality of God- head. It is the duty of everyone, it doesn’t matter in what status of life he is situated, but if he wants to have a successful life, then he must learn to see how by his ac- tivities the Supreme Lord is satisfied. That should be the aim. Then it does not matter what is the position and occupation of the man, but he is in the right order of civilization because his very aim is to sat- isfy the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Next point, And in order to learn this art, how he is able to satisfy the Supreme Per- sonality of Godhead, one has to take in- struction or education in the art of Krishna Consciousness, by reading Bha- gavad Gita as it is, by reading Srimad Bha- gavatam, which arecalculated the science of God, and following the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, such practice should be performed 24 hours. It is not that one may meditate for 15 minutes, and he becomes spiritually advanced, it is not possible. So the Krishna Consciousness movement is training people how to be absorbed in the thought of Krishna, 24 hours. Take for example, the Bhagavad Gita: the instruc- tion of Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita are just suitable for a perfect human civiliza- tion. So one should learn this teachings of Bhagavad Gita as it is. Next point, in or- der to understand this teachings of Bha- gavad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam, there should be centers where people can as- semble daily, morning and evening, and try to understand this Krishna Conscious- ness or God consciousness movement. So we are trying to open branches all over the world in every city, inevery town, in every village, and people should take advantage of it. There is no question of monetary transaction to enter into these centers and institutions, but because we have to main- tainsuch institutions, public should volunta- rily contribute and that is very gladly ac- cepted. Next point, when people are ac- customed to associate with these different centers, of Krishna Consciousness move- ment, they will one day come out of the material concept of life. Just like one be- comes awakened from sleep. While sleep- ing, One sees so many nonsense dreams, but as soon as one is awakened, he be- comes conscious that oh, I was seeing so many nonsense dreams, actually it has no OCTOBER, 1968 565 existence. Similarly, when a person be- comes Krishna Conscious, he can under- stand the falsity representation of this material civilization. Next point, and when he is awakened, he becomes com- pletely detached from the so-called affec- tion for designations, namely, society, friendship and love. Next point, by such understanding, one is not so much materi- ally active. One is satisfied with income which can simply maintain his body and soul together and he is no more interested to increase the bank balance unneces- sarily for sense gratification. The defect of the modern civilization that everyone is earning money undoubtedly in large vol- umes, but he does not know how to spend. He is spending simply for sense gratifica- tion and the last word of sense gratifica- tion is sex, therefore all money is being spent up for intoxication and sexual life, nudey dance, nudey theater, in so many ways. That means they are spoiling their human source of energy. Next point, one should be so trained up that within the heart he will be freed from all material at- traction, but so long the body is there, to keep the body and soul together, he has to work like ordinary man. Next point, the society, friendship and love of material existence may be accepted without any at- traction, and whatever the so-called soci- ety, friendship and love wants to take service from us, one should simply say, yes, it is very nice, but actually he should give more importance for spiritual ad- vancement of life. Next point, one should know it certain that material resources, either in this planet or in other planets, either in the sky or within the earth, namely in the mines, all the properties that is being utilized at the present mo- ment as economic development, one should understand definitely that all the ingredients supplied or all the ingredients stocked, for example, the petroleum now stocked within the earth, and people are utilizing it for so many power machin- ery—one should know that this petroleum belongs to the Supreme Personality of Godhead. It is not man-made. Nor the sci- entists can manufacture. Similarly every- thing, all commodities, all things, all properties, they are made by the Supreme Personality of Godhead. This understand- ing must be there. Next point, one can en- joy such properties but with this understanding, that they belong to the Su- preme Personality of Godhead. Just like one is situated in the public park in a very nice garden, public park, but one should always remember that the public park does not belong to him, personally. But it is the property of the government or the state. Next point, therefore, the properties made by the Supreme Personality of God- head can be utilized by all living entities. Every living entities, not only the human beings, but also the animals, they have got right to live on the property of the Su- preme Personality of Godhead. Next point, nobody can encroach upon the right of other living entities. Everyone is supplied by the Lord, the fooding, shelter, by natural arrangement, so nobody should encroach upon the right of living of oth- ers. As such, the human being considered to be the highest developed conscious ani- mals, so if they utilize this consciousness in relationship with Krishna, that is called Krishna Consciousness. Next point, a Krishna Conscious person does not en- croach upon the right of other living be- ings, as such they do not approve organized slaughterhouses for killing ani- mals. Next point, if you manitain slaugh- terhouses then you have to suffer the consequence, because in the law of na- ture, there is no distinction between one life to another. Every living entity is equally valuable. Next point, every living entity is claimed as the son of the Supreme Personality of Godhead, they may be dressed differently, because the body is 566 Letters from Srila Prabhupada dress, the body is not identification with the living entity, therefore the living entity may be dressed in 8,400,000 of different dresses, and the living entity as he is, there is no qualitative difference between human being and animal. Therefore, their material necessities are the same, namely, eating, sleeping, mating, and defending. Next point, the foolish idea that animals or plants or other living entities have no life, is the basic cause of human sin ful ac- tivities. Next point, one should be satis- fied only to fulfill the belly, that is the eating process. If you can satisfy your belly by such things as grains, vegetables, fruits and milk, you have no right to kill another animal for satisfying the taste of your tongue. The human society is meant for living on the natural production, namely, grains, fruits, vegetables, and milk. They should not indulge extrava- gantly for other things. And if actually they are Krishna Conscious, they know the art of how to prepare thousands of pal- atable dishes only from the varieties of vegetables, grains, fruits, and milk. If anyone takes more than he requires then he is to be understood a thief. Nobody should accumulate for future consump- tion of family, society, or nation, more money or more grains or more vegetables or more eatables, one should have only as much as he requires. Zf there is greater production, that should be distributed to persons who need them. Because food grains, especially, they are meant for all living entities, they should not be spoiled. Next point, therefore, one who spoils food grains unnecessarily, he is criminal. And one who accumulates more money than is actually required, he is also crimi- nal. And according to the law of nature, or according to the law of God, such persons are surely to be punished. This punishment may not be visible in this life, but because life is eternal, it is continuity, one must be prepared to accept such punishment in this life or next life, and because they are taking the risk, therefore, the living entity is transmigrat- ing from one body to another, and that is his problem of life. The human life is meant for solving this problem. All ani- mals like deer, camel, ass, monkey, even flies and snakes, none should be ill treated. Even they enter into the house or in the fields and take their eatables, they should not be stopped. Because they have also got the right to eat, eatables supplied by the Lord. And they will not eat more, neither they will take at home, They are better than human beings. If a human be- ing is allowed to enter into the field or into the garden, he will try to take away some- thing for selling or stocking, but the ani- mals do not. So the innocent animals should be accepted as children of the householder. Nobody should take to very hardship labor. The modern civilization has dis- covered severe types of dangerous indus- tries, and laborers are attracted for high wages. But they should not accept such work. Then naturally there will be less capitalistic idea. Because the laborer co- operates, therefore demoniac persons they take advantage and make unneces- sarily increase of artificial demands of the body. Better one should be satisfied with agricultural produce than go into large cities to be engaged in industry. Peaceful life depending on agricultural produce, can bring him real happiness and prosper- ity, not otherwise. The more persons will be satisfied at their home, with home eco- nomics, not to go outside the home, that is peaceful life. In India, Mahatma Gandhi tried to organize villages in that way so that not to drag the people to the town. So peaceful atmosphere can be attained only when there is large scale village organiza- tion, actually village life. Not to borrow the ideas from the cities in the village life; poet Cooper said that country is made by OCTOBER, 1968 God, and the cities and towns are made by man. So that is the distinction. There are many such nice ideas, for peaceful living on this planet and execute Krishna Consciousness, so that one may become completely freed from contami- nation of material existence, and get eter- nal life, just after quitting this body. This is confirmed in the Bhagavad Gita, Taktva Deham Punar Janma Na Eti Mam Eti Kaunteya. By simple prosecution of Krishna Consciousness, one goes back to home, back to Godhead, just after quit- ting this present body. If people cooperate with this Krishna consciousness movement, certainly a bet- ter type of civilization can be introduced for permanent peace and prosperity of the whole world. Hope this will meet you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure: 2 Seattle 17th October, 1968 68-10-37 My Dear Nandarani, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 13, 1968. I am so glad to learn that you appreciate my mission in the United States as without any rival. Actually this is a fact, because I am presenting nothing manufactured by me. I am presenting the genuine thing as it was given by Lord Krishna Himself, or Lord Chaitanya Him- self, approved by the Great Acharyas, so the activities which we have adopted, Krishna Consciousness, it is authorized and in the disciplic succession from Krishna directly. I am trying to live in your country permanently, and I have al- ready applied for my permanent visa at Montreal, and they have called me for in- 567 terview on the 25th Oct. 1968, so I am go- ing there on the 23rd instant, and I will see the Consulate General there on the 25th. So if I get my permanent visa, certainly I shall try to live in your country and spread this unique message of Krishna Con- sciousness with your good assistance. The engagement which you have fixed up on the 25th Oct. is not possible to ac- cept because on the 25th I shall be in Montreal, and on the 26th I shall be start- ing for Santa Fe, and from Santa Fe I am coming to Los Angeles. Perhaps you have already known this fact from your hus- band, because Jayananda talked with him, about the program. Regarding vegetarian movement, practically we are not very much inter- ested with such partial movement. We have taken the supreme sublime move- ment, Krishna Consciousness, which in- cludes all other subordinate movement. Although we are not interested in the vege- tarian movement, but because we eat Krishna Prasadam we are already vege- tarian. So any good thing all over the world may be brought before us and we can say that we have already accepted it. That is the postion of Krishna Conscious- ness. Krishna Consciousness is all includ- ing. Just like if a man has got one million dollars, so 10 dollars, $20, $50, or $500, or $5000, everything is included, in that one million dollars. So we have accepted something which is all including so don’t worry about this vegetarian movement— if they are not inclined to understand what is Krishna consciousness. We have no quarrel either with the vegetarian or non- vegetarian, because according to Bha- gavad Gita both of them are sinful. Anyone who is not eating Krishna Prasa- dam, either vegetarian or non-vegetarian, he is a sinful person. That is stated in the Bhagavad Gita, Bhunjante Te Agham Pa- pam Ye Pachyante Atmakaramak. Anyone who is cooking for himself, he is eating 568 Letters from Srila Prabhupada simply volumes of sin. So in the material world, either a man is vegetarian or non- vegetarian, they’re eating simply sin, and they will have to suffer the consequence. But so far we are concerned, we are eating remnants of foodstuff which was offered to Krishna, so we are not afraid of any- thing. If Krishna wants vegetable food- stuff, therefore we supply Him vegetable foodstuff, and if He wants non-vegetarian foodstuff, we can offer Him also, but He does not want it, as it is explicitly stated in the Bhagavad Gita. So we are concerned with Krishna Prasadam, neither vegetar- ian or non-vegetarian. You can say your friend who has invited us that Swamiji is not very expert at speaking about nutri- tional value of foods, but whatever we take as Krishna Prasadam, there is no comparison of nutrition with any other foodstuff all over the universe. If this group however is ready to hear something about Krishna Consciousness, the phi- losophy of Bhagavad Gita, it is not reli- gious. It is essential information for human life. So all these old men and women, they should be interested in the value of life. There are many vegetarians animals also; the monkeys are vegetari- ans, the pigeons are vegetarians, so to be- come vegetarian is not very good credit. But to become Krishna Consciousness is the most important business of life. You should try to convince your friends in that way. They should try to learn about Krishna Consciousness. But because they are vegetarians, there is great possibility for them to understand this philosophy. I am enclosing herewith one letter re- ceived from Rupanuga for forwarding to you. This letter is from Mr. Fugate of Florida. Hope this will meet you in good health, and thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have just received one letter from Anniruddha who is now staying in San Francisco, and he has asked my permis- sion to stay there, and I am therefore ad- vising him to stay there at least for the time being or if you want him to assist him you can call him back. My dear Dayananda, Your letter, Dt. 10/17/68 just received. Please accept my blessings. My pro- gramme is already above mentioned. Re- garding the idea of Prasadam restaurant, I am advocating it since very beginning. If you can manage such Prasadam eating place and the temple at one place it will super-excellent. I shall personally assist you in this affair because I like this idea very much. Our chanting is medicine and our Prasadam is the diet for curing mate- rial disease. So I fully agree with your this scheme and you may accept the place as described in your letter dated 17th Oct: which I have just received. ACB 68-10-38 Seattle 18th October, 1968 My Dear Harer Nama and Tosan Krishna, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 12, 1968, and I thank you very much for your invitation. Please offer my bless- ings to other members of the temple who are residing there. And I have decided to go to your temple by the 26th October. On the 23rd of October, 1968, I am going to Montreal to keep one appointment with the Consulate General of United States, and then by the 26th instant I wish to go to Santa Fe directly. I hope you have already talked with Jayananda in this connection. And now you can arrange for that. OCTOBER, 1968 569 I thank you once more for your assur- ance of service to Krishna and it is very enlightening for me that we have got so many nice souls to serve the cause of Krishna, and in the matter of pushing Krishna consciousness in this country and all over the world. I beg to remain, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-39 Seattle 18th October, 1968 My Dear Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your long letter dated Oct. 13, 1968. I am so glad to read it that you are writing your letter from hos- pital, and I thank you very much that you are so much enthusiastic that even in hos- pital bed, you are thinking of serving Krishna in different ways. When I received the news sent me by your husband to Jayananda that you are going to be operated, I was little bit per- turbed, but immediately I submitted my prayer to Krishna, and I am so glad that Krishna is so merciful. He has saved your life and your baby, it is very much pleas- ing to me. So I am so much grateful to Krishna, and you should also know that how much grateful we should all be to Krishna. Actually, your case was life and death, without Krishna’s Mercy you could not be saved. At least one life was at risk, either your baby’s life, or your life. But Krishna is so kind that He has saved both of you. Now feeling this obligation to Krishna, you should be more enthusiastic to serve Krishna and I am very pleased to learn that you have got a nice beautiful Krishna Conscious child, so raise her to full Krishna Consciousness, and engage yourself, your husband, then the family will be very beautiful happy family. You will enjoy in this world, and in the next world. So it is all very nice by the Grace of Krishna. Iam going to Montreal on the 23rd Oc- tober, 1968, and from there I shall go to Santa Fe, and from there I shall go to Los Angeles. I understood that Dinesh was to see me this Sunday, but if it is not possible to see me on Sunday, then the next chance will be to see me at Los Angeles. I think the Samkirtan party can sell the records very nicely, and you can directly correspond with Tamal Krishna. They are also going to Los Angeles just after my departure. Hope this will find you in good health, and pray to Krishna for your quick recovery. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-40 Seattle 18th October, 1968 My Dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 11, 1968, and I am so glad to note your very nice sentiments. I am so pleased to note that you are getting attraction for Sri Gopalji, and that will save you from all kinds of opposing elements. I am glad that Sachisuta is living with you and if both of you are feeling some inconvenience, then you are welcome to live with me for some days. I am going to Montreal on the 23rd October, and I shall again start from Mon- treal to Santa Fe. If you so desire, you can see me in Montreal on the 24th instant, and I shall be glad to know what is your particular difficulty. If Sachisuta is find- ing difficulty to cope with his God- brothers in the temple, he can travel with the Samkirtan party. That will be very nice. Anyway, both of you may not leave us. Each and everyone of you is very im- portant assistant for me, so do not try to leave us, but try to adjust things as far as 570 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda possible, but my last request to you both is that if you find such difficulty to live with your God-brothers, you can live with me. Hope this will meet you in good health. And thanking you once more for writing me. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-41 Seattle 19th October, 1968 My Dear Anniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am duly in receipt of your letter of Oct. 16, 1968, from San Francisco. You have asked my permis- sion whether you can stay in San Francisco, but I think your service will be required in Los Angeles. The Samkirtan party is going to Los Angeles very soon, and I shall decide about you when I go there. In the meantime, you stay in San Francisco, and help Chi- dananda as secretary. Regarding Dr. Bagchee—we must al- ways know that we are executing the topmost yoga system, Krishna Con- sciousness, and we do not require any in- ferior quality yoga system. You must have read in Bhagavad Gita in the 6th chap., last verse, that one who is constantly in Krishna Consciousness, he is the topmost yogi. So the process which we have adopted cannot be compared even with any other yoga system. That is a fact. Hope this meets you in good health, and more when we meet. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-42 Seattle 21st October, 1968 My Dear Makhanlal, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter with- out date, but I am sorry that I am late in replying to your letter. I have received a report of KrishnaDevi giving birth to a tiny daughter, and I have already sent my congratulation to her. Krishna has saved her child and herself also, because it is the promise of Krishna that his devotees are always protected by the Lord. I am very glad to learn that your Samkirtan party in San Francisco is doing very well, and similarly you will be pleased to nkow that here Samkirtan, led by Jyananda and Tamal Krishna, they are also doing veyr nice. Average, they are collecting about $50 a day, and selling about 50 to 75 copies of Back to Godhead. Similarly, you also yry to sell copies of Back to Godhead. This is propaganda. If we can sell some copies of our publica- tions, books and literature, and we can maintain our establishment, somehow, we shall think it is a great success. We don’t want anything more. Neither we want any big bank balance. Our mission is that peopkle should understand their relation- ship with Krishna, and thus let him be- come Krishna Consciousness so that he may be releived from the three-fold mis- eiries of this material exsistance. So far crying for Krishna is concerned, it is very nicely explained by Lord Chai- tanya. He says that a moment is appearing to me as 12 years, and my eyes are tearing torrents of rain, and I am feeling everything vacant in the absence of Govinda. The thing is that as we go on chanting Hare Krishna, in the pure status, we shall be on the loving platform and at that time, we shall feel the greatest separation from the Lord; but that feeling of separation from the Lord is more relishable than meeting the Lord. These are all transcendental ex- sistential understandings and as we grow in Krishna Consciousness, we understand ev- erything, gradually, by the Grace of the Su- preme Lord. The Supreme Lord is situated in everyone’s heart, and He reveals Him- OCTOBER, 1968 571 self to the devotee with the progress of Krishna Consciousness. Thank you very much for your writing me. Your ever-well-wisher, ACB 68-10-43 Seattle 21st October, 1968 My Dear Murlidhar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter un- dated, but I know this letter was received a few days ago, and I could not reply earlier on account of heavy pressure of so many letters. Anyway I may inform you it does not matter that you cannot paint one pic- ture daily, but you go on doing it as many pictures as you can finish in a month or in a week. Do it nicely and I don’t press upon you. But the idea is that I wanted so many pictures from Srimad Bhagavatam but I wish that some of my disciples, either in- dividually or collectively may produce at least half a dozen pictures daily. Any way I think Krishna will give you strength more and more. Do not stop your work, go on painting as far as possible. Regarding your question, what color is the ocean of milk, it is white. You can make it bluish shade in order to distin- guish that it is water. Vishnu’s color is sky blue, and Lakshmi’s color is just like gold, molten gold. Lakshmi is not always with Vishnu, there are many Vishnu forms Who is alone. That form is called Vasudev Vishnu. No demigod remains with Vishnu. Demigods are destined to live within the material world. In the spiritual world there is no place for the demigods, but who are elevated to the position of pure devotee, they can be pro- moted to the spiritual world. In the mate- rial world, either ordinary living entities and the demigods, they belong to the same category of jiva tattva, the marginal potency of Vishnu. The marriage cere- mony of Vasudev and Devaki, the daugh- ter Devaki was offered by her father named Devak, to Vasudev, and Devak had eight daughters, and all the 8 daugh- ters were offered to Vasudev. The mar- riage is performed generally by priest. Sacrificial fire you have seen in our cere- monies, it is in the same way, but there are some decorations, just like a canopy is made with 4 pillars and it is decorated with green foliage and flowers, and water pot, under each stand, and in this way, it is decorated. And just outside the can- opy, the relatives and other Brahmins they sit down to see the marriage cere- mony going on. The omen was heard while Kamsa was carrying his sister and brother-in-law in the chariot. There were hundreds of other chariots also, given in dowery. The omen was heard that it was addressed to Kamsa that My dear Kamsa, you are so joyfully carrying your sister but you do not know that a son, the 8th son of your sister will kill you. The 8th son of Devaki was Krishna Himself, and before Krishna, all the sons of Devaki were taken by Kamsa and killed. I am going to Montreal on the 23rd and from there I shall go to Santa Fe, then I shall come back to Los Angeles. I shall be glad to know what is your program. You propose that you shall go to reside with Gargamuni. Is that idea still going or have you changed your ideas. I shall be glad to hear from you. Thanking you once more for writing me, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-44 Seattle 21st October, 1968 My Dear Shama dasi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter undated, but I 572 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda am sorry I am late in replying it due to so many letters I have to reply every day, so please excuse me my delay. Regarding your questions, you want to offer something in the evening to Krishna besides fruit and milk, so there is no harm. Because Krishna can eat as many times as you give Him to eat, be- cause He is unlimited. He can eat unlim- itedly, provided we can supply foodstuff unlimitedly. But that is not possible for us. Therefore, we limit the supply. But anyway, if you can increase the offerings it is very nice. But one thing is that what- ever you make routine work to offer Him food stuff, that should be continued. Do not change it. So if you can continue to offer foodstuff like fruits and milk in the evening, you can introduce that system. There is no harm. Your second question, ice cream purchased from the market may not be offered. Because such ice cream contains sometimes undesirable things, which we should not offer. We must offer to Krishna only first class pre- pared foodstuff, especially made at home. We shall try to avoid as far as pos- sible goods purchased from the market and offer to Krishna. Regarding your third question, morning lecture is also allowed. Lecture is also kirtan, and so as morning kirtan is there, similarly morn- ing lecture can also be delivered. In New York , or even in San Francisco, when I was present I was giving lectures in morning also. So far as girls or boys lec- turing inthe morning, that doesn’t make any difference. Either girl or boy devo- tees may deliver lecture if they choose to do. We have no such distinction of bodily designations, male or female. Krishna Consciousness is on the spiritual plat- form. As such, anyone who is a devotee of the Lord, following in this line of dis- ciplic succession, can deliver lecture, on the teachings of Bhagavad Gita, Srimad Bhagavatam, etc. Regarding your question no. 4, Gaya- tri mantra means it is chanted by a quali- fied Brahmin. A devotee of Krishna is understood to have surpassed the stage of becoming qualified Brahmin, so Gayatri mantra can be chanted by qualified Brah- min, and the meaning of Gayatri mantra is Gayat—Gayat means sin, and tri means deliverance. Gayatri. And mantra, man— means mind, tra means deliverance. So the things chanting which one is delivered from the mental platform is called Gayatri mantra, or mantra. So all mantras are like that, but this is the meaning of Gayatri mantra. I am so grateful for your nice senti- ments for me, and Krishna will bless you. I am very poor and I have nothing to return for your loving service, but I can simply pray to Krishna for your gradual advancement in Krishna Con- sciousness. I think that is the best bless- ing which we can have in this material existence. Thank you very much for your writing me, and occasionally pleasetry to write such letters whenever you find convenient. I am going to Mon- treal on the 23rd, and from there I shall go to Santa Fe, and then I shall come back to Los Angeles. Maybe I may goto San Francisco also, or you may come there to see me. Hope this will find you in good health. Regarding Karnapur’s poetry, it is not available now. There is a book of Karnapur, and that is written in Bengali type, partly Sanskrit. When opportu- nity prevails, we may translate it into English then we shall get the poetry; for the time being there is no possibility of getting the poetry of Karnapur. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami OCTOBER, 1968 573 68-10-45 Seattle 21st October, 1968 My Dear Krishna das, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 13 Oct., 1968, and I have noted the con- tents carefully. In the beginning you write to say that you have written at least 3 let- ters to me, but this is the first time I have received any letter from you. I do not know how they are missing. Anyway, I have also received one letter from Shivananda, it is understood that you are trying your best to secure a place in Ham- burg, but still you have not been able to find out. In the meantime, before this, Shivananda wrote me a letter that he has already opened a branch in Berlin. And this news was spread by me to others. Now it is understood that you have changed your idea and you want to open our center in Hamburg. It is nice so far I get information that Hamburg is very more important than Berlin, but if you find difficulty in locating a place for our center in Hamburg, it is better go back to Berlin and take whatever place is avail- able. To feel separation from the Spiritual Master or Krishna is very good position. That means one who is in pure love with Krishna and His Representative, Spiritual Master, he thinks always of Them. And this thinking process is Krishna con- sciousness. If we can think always of Krishna even in separation, that is Krishna Consciousness. And in the abso- lute platform, there is no difference of separation and meeting. The separation is also meeting, rather in separation one rel- ishes the loving relationship more tasty. So don’t be disappointed that you are separated from me, I am also always thinking of you how you are making prog- ress there. And I am always expecting your letters that you have already opened a center there, and you are working very nicely. So far Seattle is concerned, we have opened here a branch about one month past, and it is well established. People have known it and students are coming from the university community, and tak- ing interest. I’ve gone to the universtiy and delivered lecture. And last Sunday we initiated 3 devotees, and 2 or 3 are still waiting. So this branch is going nicely. And the kirtan party led by Tamal and Jayananda, they are also selling Back to Godhead daily, at least 50 to 75 copies, and collecting money also, average of 40 or 50 dollars daily. So this branch is very nice. I hope I shall hear soon that you are doing the same thing in Hamburg. In London, although they have not opened a banch, but they are doing Kirtan performances daily, twice or thrice, and in the parks, schools, colleges, clubs, so- ciety and private houses, so our propa- ganda is not stopped. So even you have not found out any place at Hamburg, you three together you can chant Hare Krishna, Kirtan in the same way as they are doing in London and other cities. We are more or less concerned for preaching. It does not matter even if we have got a temple, but if the preaching work goes on that is a great satisfaction. I understand from Shivananda’s letters that you are get- ting engagements in Berlin, but I don’t hear that you have got any engagement in Hamburg. So please try to find out some engagement and perform kirtan. You are now three. One can play mridanga and two can play cymbals and chant nicely, and so even you are not yet found a place, you can go on with your work, ask New York to send you magazines and go on with Kirtan. So far your long letter, I am very much pleased to have your long let- ter. I can see from your writing that you have got capacity to write, this is a great help. You can write articles for Back to 574 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Godhead, so writing capacity is not dis- couraged. And I shall always be glad to re- ceive your long letters. You can inform Shivananda that I have received his last letter and he has several questions and he wants some letter ad- dress. So you can send me the language or the body of the letter which I shall type and sign and send to you So my request to you is that even though you are unable to find out a suit- able place, you can go on with perfor- mance of Kirtan, and other Kirtan parties are doing. They are doing like this in Seat- tle, San Francisco, even in Montreal. Hope this will find you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Tomorrow I am going to Montreal. From there I will go to Santa Fe on the 27th, stay there for a week and then go to L.A. Seattle 22nd October, 1968 68-10-46 My dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. While I am packing my goods for going to Mon- treal I have received your letter of Oct. 18, 1968. Yes, when Krishna has given us New Vrindaban, it must develop rest as- sured. You have got very good engage- ment by the Grace of Krishna, do it nicely and your life will be glorious and success- ful. So also Hayagriva’s. When you go to Columbus take Radha Krishna with you and teach Hayagriva also how to worship the Deities. If required, ask Achy- utananda and Jaigovinda to send you an- other pair of Deity for Hayagriva. Radhakrishna shall be your life compan- ion and thus you will be always secure from the attack of Maya. So also Haya- griva. The present mode of worship is quite alright, don’t worry. You have seen in Vrindaban so do follow as much as pos- sible. Decorate the Deity as nicely as pos- sible with nice flowers and dress. You will forget all other false beauty. Open the Co- lumbus center gorgeously along with Hayagriva and Pradyumna. The boys will like it. Carry Deity with you. Krishna is so nice. He is carying the whole planetary system as Samkarshan, but at the same time, He agrees to be carried by His devo- tees as small as a devotee can carry Him. He is greater than the greatest and smaller than the smallest. His greatness is there even when He becomes small to be car- ried by a devotee. The Mayavadis cannot understand how the greatest can become the smallest as it is impossible on material understanding. I am going to Montreal to meet the consulate of USA for my perma- nent visa. Let me see what Krishna de- sires. Hope you are well. Offer my blessings to all. Your ever-Well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-47 Montreal 26th October, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my greetings and bless- ings of Lord Krishna. I am in due receipt of your letter of 10/18/68. I am very much perplexed to know that you are not feeling comfortable at the care of your parents. If your parents don’t receive you as their be- loved son, I don’t wish to keep you in that blazing fire. I thank you very much for the strength of your mind and Krishna will certainly help you. You will be pleased to know that I have now immigration visa for your country and if I get the church-centre room in U.N. I am going to make my H.Q. in N. York. If your parents don’t treat very well & want to make your life miserable, then you shall live with me. At least I shall not make your life miserable OCTOBER, 1968 575 even though I am not as rich as your par- ents. If your father does not give you fa- cilities for a car and good apartment. I don’t advise you to live in that balzing fire. Hope this will meet you in good health. I am going to-morrow to Santa Fe and then to Los Angeles. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-10-48 Santa Fe 29th October, 1968 My dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter of Oct. 21, 1968. I received your letter in Mon- treal but I have come here just day before yesterday. I am going to Holywood from here and my return post address is given over leaf. Regarding certificate you can add the following words within bracket after the word Acharya. Acharya (ordained Minister of Reli- gion) you will be glad to know that I have been admitted in your country as perma- nent resident (Immigration Visa) under ordained Religious Minister and it is learnt that my initiated students may be saved from the military service. Please in- form this matter to all others. I am here- with giving a note for Shyamsundar and Malati which please show them. Offer my blessings to your husband, Mukunda, Janaki & all others. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NOVEMBER 68-11-1 Los Angeles lst November, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Oct. 28, 1968, along with Jadurany’s. There is some dif- ficulty of our temple here, therefore my return address is given to my residential apartment, as above. So you can write me letters to this address. I hope the enclosed statement of certificate of your being an ordained Brahmin will help you. As mentioned in the letter, you will be pleased to know that I am now admitted as ordained minister of religion in the USA. Now there is no difficulty of my staying in your country and if the students in differ- ent universities and colleges want to hear from me about the teachings of Lord Chaitanya, Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and Srimad Bhagavatam, I shall be glad to ac- cept such invitation, provided such stu- dents pay reasonable contributions. I am getting gradually older, therefore even if I remain in your country, I shall restrain my moving and my main business will be henceforward to train you all my disciples for preaching work. I think you will ap- prove of my program. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your handwriting letter af- ter so long a time, and from your hand- writing I can understand that Krishna is keeping you in good health. You must take care of your health, and under the direc- tion of your good husband. I have espe- cially entrusted you in his hand so that he may take proper care of your health, and everyone is pleased about your nice com- bination. Both of youare very serious stu- dents in Krishna Consciousness and on account of your service , Krishna always will help you in all respects. I confirm herewith my statement that the wife is the shareholder of the hus- band’s pious activities. So you should know it well that Sriman Satsvarupa, life being fully dedicated to Krishna, what- ever he desires you to act, you should kindly follow his instruction. Actually he cannot check you in the matter of your ser- vice either to Krishna or to me, but be- cause we have to work with our present body, we must take care of it by following the ordinary rules. Regarding casting of Nrisinghadev murtis, I could not follow what you mean by this. I know Rukmini can paint, so if she paints Nrisinghadev pictures, let her do this as many copies as she can. So far casting in metal or in any other solid mate- rial is concerned, if she is able to do it, let her do the job in casting Radha Krishna murtis. We require many Radha Krishna murtis both in our temples as well as in private household homes. Yes, that is a nice idea to copy photos of lotuses and flowers. Yes, because in our temples there is no picture of Srila Gour Kishore Das Babaji or Srila Jagganath Das Babaji, so you can paint Their pictures. If you have no pic- ture to copy from, you can write and re- quest Gurudas to send you some. I am 578 Letters from Srila Prabhupada enclosing herewith a small picture of Mudhvacharya, if it is too difficult to work from, you can send it to Gurudas and he can make clearer and larger prints from it. Hoping you are in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-2 Los Angeles 2nd November, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your note of Oct. 28, 1968, along with a letter to you from Jaigovinda. His letter appears not very clear and your remark on Achyutananda’s attitude is also notable. You write to say ‘‘Rayrama will forward one letter from Parvat Maharaj etc.” I have not received any letter from Rayrama. I think both Achyutananda and Jaigovinda have been poisoned by this Parvat and thus it is useless to request them to work for the society. Neither they have shown any capability till now. Under the circumstances, I think there is no hope of getting any service from these boys re- garding our mission. I wrote one letter jointly addressed to Achyutananda and Jaigovinda but they have not replied the same. I think as Bon Maharaj poisoned the mind of Hrisikesh, similarly these boys have been entrapped by Parvat. This Parvat is one of the disci- ples of my God-brother but he is so salient that he has not replied to my letters, but, instead of replying my letter, he has the impudency of writing to Rayrama. Ray- rama may not reply this letter until I have seen it. He appears to be as venomous as Bon Maharaj. They are all envious of my activities here. As Jaigovinda has not yet left for Bombay, there is no need of issuing indemnity letter in his favor. I do not un- derstand why he has requested to address the indemnity letter to Parvat Maharaj. These are very doubtful things. I do not know how to deal with these boys. Both of them are silent about my letter of Oct. 13, 1968 which I wrote them about realizing the money from Hitsaran. I am really very sorry for them. I am enclosing the copy of the above mentioned letter. Hope you are well; I received the Bha- gavad Gita hardcover jacket. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have not heard anything from Purushottama about the church center. ACB 68-11-3 Los Angeles 3rd November, 1968 London My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard anything from you in about a fort- night, and I am anxious to hear how you are doing there. It may be there is some mail delay due to my leaving Seattle, for Santa Fe, and then coming here to Los Angeles. You can write me at the above address, my residential apartment. And you will be pleased to know that Iam now accepted with the USA Immigration De- partment as Permanent Resident, with option to apply for citizenship. And yes- terday’s report of the activities of Samkir- tan party is that they sold 175 copies of Back To Godhead, and collected 130 dol- lars in donations. Hope you are all well there, and I shall be expecting to hear from you by return of post. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NOVEMBER, 1968 579 68-11-4 Los Angeles 3rd November, 1968 My Dear Purushottam, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated October 31, 1968 along with the letter from the Methodist Church. I suspected in the beginning that they would not allow us to work with freedom and, therefore, inspite of their promise to enter into lease agreement I wanted to clear up the situa- tion. Now they have shown their real face so don’t feel sorry for this. We know very well what is the world situation. It is my personal opinion that at the present mo- ment except for afew persons, practically there is no man inthe world who is strictly religionist, Hindu, Moslem, Christian, Buddhist. In the ten commandments of the Bible it is clearly stated that, “Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not indulge in adultery, thou shalt not covet their servant or ani- mals, but practically we see the so-called Christian world is full of the killing pro- cess reflected with adultery in every state encroaching upon other’s property very organizedly. Similarly we find in India the so-called Hindu are doing all sorts of non- sense. So practically the whole world is without religion. Officially they claim some sectarian identification. Therefore, it is a fact that the religious principles of Krishna Consciousness which we are tyring to preach under the direction of Lord Chaitanya inducing people to chant HARE KRISHNA is the only panacea for the animalistic human society at the present moment. A man without religion is nothing but an animal and being every man is irreligious, therefore, the whole human society is certainly animalistic. We do not mind because we could not get any place in the Church Center and there is no cause for your being sorry for this. You have tried your best in the ser- vice of Lord Chaitanya. This is sufficient. We do not calculate the so-called success or failure we are simply to discharge our duties in Krishna Consciousness and chant HARE KRISHNA loudly. Now as you are free you can come and join me here. When I was in Montreal you went there to join me but because you were negotiating with Church Center af- fairs I sent you back to New York. I was also calculating if that center is obtainable I shall make my Headquarters in New York. Now that chance being lost you are welcome to come to join me here. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Two original letters, returned here- with. 68-11-5 Los Angeles 3rd November, 1968 My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Oct. 20, 1968, and I understand that you are begin- ning to learn Sanskrit grammar which I think will be a great difficult task for you in these late hours of life. It is very nice to hear that Dr. Singh will conduct a special course of Panini’s grammar. But our im- mediate task is to prepare the translitera- tion and correction of the Ist Canto for next publication. But if you have to do the same after learning Sanskrit grammar, it will take a long time to finish it. I have not heard anything how far yourself and Haya- griva combinedly finishing the editing of the 1st Canto which we are going to print next. If you can learn Sanskrit grammar conveniently it is very nice. But the mode of teaching in the schools and colleges are so slow that it will not be practical to learn Sanskrit grammar there and then prepare our transliteration. Of course, the gram- mar helps in analyzing the combined 580 Letters from Srila Prabhupada words, but I think it will take a very long time. Regarding the diacritic marks, there are many systems and I do not know which one of them is the standard, but I think the sys- tem followed by Dr. RadhaKrishnan in transliterating the Bhagavad Gita is the ap- proved. You are reading Hitopadesa, and you will know from this that the author of this book, Vishnu Sharma, compiled this book for some grown up princes in orderto teach them Sanskrit in a short cut way. So you have to follow that way and do our main work and at the same time. I shall be glad to learn how Hayagriva is taking Samkirtan classes amongst the University students. And I shall be glad to hear from you. Hope you are both well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-6 Los Angeles 3rd November, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I have not heard anything from you in about a fort- night, and I am anxious to hear how you are doing there. It may be there is some mail delay due to my leaving Seattle for Santa Fe, and then coming here to Los Angeles, California. You can write to me atthe above address, my residential apart- ment. And you will be pleased to know that I am now accepted by the USA immi- gration department as permanent resi- dent, with option to apply for citizenship. Yesterday’s report of the activities of the Samkirtan party is that they sold 175 copies of Back To Godhead, and collected $130 in donations. Hope you are all well, and I shall be ex- pecting to hear from you by return of post. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-7 Los Angeles 6th November, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknoweldge receipt of your letter Octo- ber 31, 1968, and I am so pleased to know that you are now quite able to work. May Krishna bless you with good health and continue your prescribed duties very nicely. Regarding the picture, Pancha Tattwa, I do not think there is necessity of putting them in perspective. Actually they are standing on the same line. Just like a group photo is taken and nobody looks smaller or greater. That is the system. But the thing is that if you make Lord Chai- tanya smaller, that would not be nice. He should be larger, and actually he was very large and broad shouldered. So better to paint as you have been doing, and with Lord Chaitanya a little larger. Murti means a worshippable statue. Hoping you are in good health always, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-8 Los Angeles 6th November, 1968 My dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter along with Dia Nippers. I cannot understand why they should increase the price & supply goods not to the former sample! You use your best discretion & do the needful. My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. There is no need of replying Pasvat Maharaj’s let- ter. He did not reply my letter & why he would expect a reply from you. Do your duty nicely & go Back to Godhead. NOVEMBER, 1968 581 My dear Uddhava, Please accept my blessing. I am in due receipt of your letter. I think you should consult your Godbrothers in this connec- tion. So I have no abjection if you decide to marry as a matter of necessity. Hope you are all well. Please convey my bless- ings to all boys & girls. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-9 Los Angeles 6th November, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived one letter from Guyana, and one gentleman, Sriman Petambar Dindayal is very much interested in our Krishna Con- sciousness movement. He has invited me to go there, so first of all I want to send him some various literatures and pam- phlets about our society. So you please send him some Back To Godheads, our new prospectus, and press cuttings, etc. which will be of good information for him. Also, please send here to Los Angeles some of the new prospectus, a good amount, as they are very nice. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Address of Sriman Dindayal: Sriman Petambar Dindayal Rosignol Berbice Guyana South America 68-11-10 Los Angeles 7th Novemeber, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived a very nice letter from England, sent to Mukunda, by an Indian gentleman named Lakshmidasa. If it is possible, maybe you can make an editorial column, with letters to the editor or to our various centers, and use it in that way. It is very nice letter and I would like to have it printed in our magazine. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-11 Los Angeles 8th November, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 31, 1968, and I am so much pleased to read the contents. I understand that you have started to firmly initiate a campus so- ciety, called OSU Yoga Society. It would have been better to name it as Bhakti Yoga Society, otherwise the society may be un- derstood as one of the many yoga soci- eties. Anyway, whatever the name may be, it does not matter. If you are success- ful in capturing the students for chanting in the auditorium, it will be a great suc- cess. I think you have already been in- formed that this time I entered USA on Immigrant visa, that is to say, I have been admitted as permanent resident on the or- der of ordained religious minister. So this was a great problem, and Krishna has now solved it. I have got also my landed immi- grant visa in Canada, but I think I shall surrender it. I also understand that you do not want to get married now, but if you marry at all, you should marry now. Because after the age of 30, marriage is not so pleasing. Practically I am giving in charge of the different centers to the Grihasthas. If you decide to marry, there are many devotee girls, and one of them may be a very nice companion for your devotional life. You prefer to be free, but a devoted wife is as 582 Letters from Srila Prabhupada good as freedom. The Grihasthas disci- ples, just like Shyamsundar, Mukunda, and Gurudas, with their wives, are doing very nicely in London. Similarly Daya- nanda and his wife Nandarani are doing very nicely here. Similarly Satsvarupa and his wife Jadurany are doing very nice in Boston. Another Grihastha, Goursun- dar, has gone to Hawaii, and his wife may go there also, and he will organize the Pa- cific Region. So we have taken this New Vrindaban scheme, and it has to be devel- oped very nicely. Now because I have got my permanent visa there is no question of my convenience. Whenever you think I should go to New Vrindaban, I am pre- pared to go there. But I think I shall go there when there is electricity, because I want to work my dictaphone with me, and I understand the electricity is not con- nected there still. And I shall be glad to know when you expect to have electricity connection. I have already left Montreal, and fom Montreal I went to Santa Fe, and then I have come here on the 28th of Oct. Regarding the Bhagavad Gita, yes you must get a considerable discount. You will get40% less than the list price, and I wish that you will distribute at least 1000 cop- ies amongst your students, and thereby you will be able to save at least $1000 for developing New Vrindaban scheme. There are 42,000 students in your univer- sity, and if 5% of them purchased our Gita, then we can sell at least 2000 copies there. So I hope you will try for this, as far as possible, and it will be both propa- ganda as well as income for the New Vrin- daban scheme. When you order to Brahamanda you can mention this state- ment of mine, and in the meantime when I write to him again I shall also inform him about that discount. In the meantime, re- cently I have received 40 complete sets of Srimad Bhagavatam, and if you so desire you can order some sets immediately. I have not heard from Kirtanananda for many days and I have received from Pra- dyumna one letter and I have replied him. Iam anxious to know also when I shall get the 1st canto of Srimad Bhagavatam com- pletely revised. Then we shall begin our 2nd canto. The New York boys are very much anxious to start our own press im- mediately and we must have sufficient matter to print in the press continually. The Deity worship must be continued by everyone. Another secret of success is that when one is very much sexually dis- turbed he should think of Lord Krishna’s pastimes with the Gopis, and he will for- get his sex urge. To think of Krishna’s pastimes with Gopis, but not to try to imi- tate. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-12 Los Angeles 8th November, 1968 London My Dear Yamuna, Mukunda, and Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I have duly received your letters dated Nov. 1, Nov. 2, and Oct. 25, respectively, and I have noted the contents carefully. I am confident that you are all trying your best so there is no question of doing things hastily. You can execute your respective duties peacefully and I am confident that you will be successful. I understand from Yamuna’s letter that one English boy has given you rent-free a four story small building for living accommodations. This is all Krishna’s Grace. Regarding the challenge in the Interna- tional Times, I am sorry to read the letter of a rascal advertising himself as Swami Gitananda, but from his letter it appears that he is neither a Swami nor has ever read Bhagavad Gita. He is so rascal that he NOVEMBER, 1968 583 describes the River Yamuna as metaphysi- cal in lower consciousness, although the River Yamuna is flowing so happily all over the Northern India. He is claiming yogi, but he does not know that the great- est yogi is the devotee of Lord Krishna. So we can reply him in so many ways to teach this rascal a good lesson, but the more we continue such corespondence, we give unnecessarily some publicity to a rascal. Mukunda has already protested such ras- cal and we have to go on with our own work positively. Fault-finding men will always be there, that is the history of the world, but one has to execute his pre- scribed duties. Regarding meeting Ravi Shankar or Mr. Harrison, Dayananda is trying his bestto contact them, so also Nandarani is also trying, but so far there is no trace about them. I do not know how far this at- tempt will be successful. So keep me informed about your ac- tivities weekly. You sent me one letter, a nice letter, from Lakshmidasa, and I have replied him. Encourage him to cooperate with you. He appears to be a good boy. Keep contact with him. Regarding giving protection toour stu- dents called by the draft board, I think the botheration may be stopped in future as there is a clause under form No. Cal-301 (REV.12FEB 60L); Budget Bureau No. 33-R 140.3, the “Questionaire for Regis- trants Claiming IV-D” , which when filled up with my certificate of teaching, our men can be saved. As experiment I am giving certificate to Kartikeya who is al- ready called, and let us see the result. I think it will be fruitful because another student, Dindayal das, he is also fighting on this point. I think Krishna will help us in this connection. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta 68-11-13 Los Angeles 11th November, 1968 My Dear Woomapati, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 1, 1968, and with pleasure I have noted the contents. When you were in Montreal I told you that you continue to work at present and give me $400.00 per month for my literary propaganda work. I require so much money for purchasing a printing press as well as paying the bill of DiaNippon. So do not quit your job, but try to earn some money for feeding our missionary activities. Regarding your proposal to open a center in Paris, it is very very nice idea. But for the present until we have opened two centers, one in Hamburg and one in London, I think it will be premature to think of opening a branch in Paris. So you can accumulate some mc 1ey for this idea, or keep the money with me as I have al- ready proposed, and as soon as there will be opportunity I shall ask you to go to Paris and open a center there. It takes a little time to understand the philosophy of Krishna Consciousness but I am glad that now you are prepared to do anything for Krishna’s sake, this is a great causeless mercy of Krishna upon you. Please continue your present attitude of serving Krishna and His cause, and cer- tainly you will be successful in the matter of Krishna Consciousness even in this life. You know that your intimate friend, Hayagriva, is devoting his whole energy and money now. Similarly other students they are also doing that and the more we do so, it is better for us. Exactly if we sup- ply nice nutritous foodstuff to the stom- ach, it is better for all the senses. Similarly, to serve Krishna more nicely is better for our own interests. Krishna is not in need of our service but if we sacrifice everything for Krishna, that is for our 584 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda good. You should always remember this maxim. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. You can deposit your contribution in my a/c S/C 430K0131 with the First Na- tional City Bank, Grand St. Branch, Grand St. at Bowery. New York 13 N.Y. ACB 68-11-14 Los Angeles 11th November, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 1, 1968, and I am glad to inform you that as directed by you I have sent the 3 let- ters to the following personalities: Minis- ter in charge of cultural and religious affairs, Mr. Michael Weyl, and Dr. Irvin. The body of the letter is the same as you drafted. Now you can do the needful and inquire whether they have received the letters. I hope very soon you will find out a suitable place in Hamburg and start the temple and if required you can take assis- tance from Shyamsundar for the Deities. I am glad to learn that Krishna das has got a job in a jewelry shop, similarly both you and Uttama Sloka may also find out some job and immediately take a nice apart- ment. If storefront is too costly then you can start the center in some apartment and try to invite people there and live together. Regarding your question, about living alone, living alone is a general tendency for a person who wants to get disassoci- ated with the materialistic persons. That is also recommended by the Goswamins in their instructions. It is better to remain alone than to mix with materialistic per- sons. But this is not applicable when we have the opportunity to get the association of pure devotees. Our program is negative and positive simultaneously. We want to negate the materialistic side and make positive the spiritual side, it is not one sided. If you have no positive standing, negating only will not make you success- ful. Therefore it is better to remain posi- tively within the society of pure devotees. That is also recommended by the Goswamins. That one should be occupied in activities in the modes of goodness and associate with spiritualistic persons, that will make one’s advancement very quick. Persons who want to take advantage of cheap reputation they imitate great per- sonalities like Haridas Thakur, who was alone chanting 300,000 of Holy Names daily. By such chanting, lonely chanting he got so much spiritual power that he could convert even a harlot to become a great devotee whereas an ordinary person falls easily a victim to such allurement. So one should not imitate such great person- alities but one should try to see how much taste he has developed for chanting, so that one can remain alone simply being engaged in chanting. If one can remain alonesimply being engaged in chanting, that is very good, but it is difficult also. A con- ditioned soul in conditioned life it is very difficult to concentrate our mind in chant- ing absolutely. Better to be engaged in preaching work, that will make one gradu- ally successful. Besides that, when we are actually engaged in with the preaching work, we gradually acquire our spiritual strength without failure. Regarding Radha Damodar temple, because it is one of the most important temples in Vrindaban, I took shelter in this temple, just to improve the dilapi- dated condition. The present proprietor or the men in charge of this temple, they are most materialistic men, and simply utilizing the temple and its property for their sense gratification. If Radha Damo- dar likes, in future, I may be able to do something for this temple, but until I have NOVEMBER, 1968 585 got the opportunity probably I am not go- ing again into that temple. I have now New Vrindaban scheme and I shall try to devel- ope all the important temples of Vrinda- ban including Radha Damodar temple in our New Vrindaban site. No, the moon’s phases has nothing to do with spiritual. Yes, the students should agree to be malleable by the Spiritual Master, then his success is sure. In your western part of the world, people are falsely taught not to become slavish. Ev- eryone wants to assert his personal views and opinions, without following any au- thority. That is the general tendency. But although such persons claim not to be slaves, actually they are slaves to the senses. So instead of being a slave of the senses, if one voluntarily becomes the slave of Krishna, or His representative, that is good for him. This is maya, think- ing that we are independent. We are slaves—every moment we are serving our senses. We are slaves to so many abomi- nable things, to drugs, intoxication, sex, doing the most abominable things in the service of the senses. So it is not slavish when one agrees to become slave of Krishna and His representative, then this is liberated position, liberated from being slave to the senses. Yes, Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur said, My Dear Vaishnava Thakur, Spiritual Master, let me become your dog, and I shall remain at your door, and I shall guard against any nonsense persons trying to enter, and whatever food you will give me, I shall eat, and I shall remain as your dog. Your specific talents are to be engaged under direction of the Spiritual Master. Everything, every talent can be employed in Krishna’s service, and how to do it is known to the Spiritual Master. You have the tendency for botany, you can grow nice flowers and fruits for Krishna, that is the utilization of your natural tendency. If you have got specific training in this connec- tion, then after establishing this center in Hamburg you can come to our New Vrin- daban and grow things, or you can grow things in Hamburg also. Fruits and flowers can be produced anywhere. Yes, these your questions are very in- telligent questions. Hoping you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-15 Los Angeles 12th November, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your two letters dated Nov. 5, 1968, and previous to this I received your other letters along with Rayrama’s, with enclosure of Parvat Maharaj’s letter, and I think I have replied that. I have writ- ten also a separate letter to Achyutananda requesting him first of all to go to Bombay with Jayagovinda, and if their trial in Bombay failed then he can stay in Vrinda- ban with determination. But I think if they go together to Bombay there will be good success. And as Jayagovinda is going to Bombay, I think you should send him a let- ter of indemnity. When you write to Jaya- govinda please acknowledge receipt of 6 phials of medicine which I have this morning received intact, forwarded by you. This packing was very nice, and there was no loss of medicine. But remind him that 12 phials of medicine which he sent previously by surface mail to Mon- treal address is not yet received. Ask him to lodge a complaint to the post office there, referring to the parcel registration number, and date. Regarding press, if the DiaNippon Company has not come to conclusion and the matter is prolonged so much then we cannot wait any more, in that case, the 6000 dollars which I have kept aside for 586 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda their payment may be invested in press work, and the book printed in our own press. Please think over this matter seri- ously. Regarding book commission, if you think 30% to the temple is suitable you can allow such 30% instead of 40%, keep- ing aside 20% for the book fund. I have received a letter from Gargamuni. It is very much depressing. I thought that your father and mother will receive him as be- loved child, but instead they are ill treat- ing, or at least not treating as beloved child. I am very much sorry for this be- havior, and I do not think Gargamuni will be able to do anything good in that situa- tion. When he comes next in the temple, you can inform him about my opinion in this connection. As he is not very com- fortable in that position there, I think he may come back and join you again. He has got his own independent talents, and he can very easily become a big business- man himself. We shall try to help him in that way, instead of pushing him into the blazing fire of karmies’ activities. I was induced to send him there because your father was so anxious to get him as his as- sistant. But he is not prepared even to give him a good apartment and what to speak of a good car. So I don’t think the situation is very favorable. Hoping you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. Reagrding your calendar dates, I have already writ- ten to the following Sannyasins to send you the calendar dates. If you have not re- ceived them, then please remind them. Their addresses are as follows: His Holiness Shraman Maharaj Sri Chaitanya Math P.O. Mayapur Dist. Nadi West Bengal, INDIA His Holiness B. V. Trivikram Maharaj Sri Devananda Gaudiya Math P.O. Nabadwipa Dist. Nadia West Bengal INDIA Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. The new prospectus may be sent in lots in all centers and charged for the cost. ACB 68-11-16 Los Angeles 12th November, 1968 London My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 4, 1968. The description of your let- ter reveals that you want to serve Krishna more and more. This is very good sign. Service of Krishna is so nice that one be- comes enthusiastic to serve more and more. That is the nature of spiritual ser- vice. I can understand also that because you could not start a temple in London you are feeling little disappointed, but there is no cause for such disappointment. I can understand that you are doing very well there even though we have not got our own temple. The pictures which Malati has sent me are nice, very very nice. From the pictures I can understand how sincerely you are working there. So even we could not establish a temple, there our preach- ing work is not in vain. So there is no cause of disappointment—you go on with your work as youare doing and everything will come successful in due course. Yes, it is your good fortune that you can serve Krishna in so many ways—to work, to write, to speak, to paint, to build—all of these talents must be em- ployed in Krishna’s service. That will make you perfect. We are so fortunate to NOVEMBER, 1968 587 be in this human form of life, and to have the opportunity and the capacity to serve Krishna, and as there is very little time, we must do as much each day as we possi- bly can.to serve Krishna, and to become always engaged in thoughts and activities of Krishna. Maya may try to pull us from Krishna’s service, and try to engage us in her service, but we must simply perse- vere, and try to do as much as possible for Krishna each day, and gradually it will be easier and easier to keep engaged in Krishna Consciousness activities. And pray to Krishna to please keep us always engaged in the service of His Lotus Feet. Krishna is very kind, and He is never un- grateful, and will give you more and more Opportunity to serve Him. That is His Mercy. I hope this meets you all in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter of Oc- tober 29, 1968, and I have noted your nice sentiments. Yes, we should always think ourself as the most fallen, the most igno- rant, and it is simply by the Mercy of Lord Chaitanya that we have even the opportu- nity to serve Krishna. We have no qualifi- cation of our own; it is simply by the merciful glance of this Most Munificent Appearance of the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, that we have been given the chance to serve Radha and Krishna. Your questions are very nice. Yes, the Supersoul and soul both are unchanged. The difference is that in material contact, the soul appears to be changed. But the Supersoul is not affected by material con- tamination, therefore there is no sign of change. The change of soul is like that wa- ter becomes ice in contact with refrigera- tor. And as soon as there is temperature the ice again becomes water. Similarly the changing nature of the soul is just like change of water to ice. The tendency of ice is to melt and become water again. So due to contamination of matter, the soul by il- lusion identifies with material existence. But the tendency is to melt again to Krishna Consciousness. So when there is sufficient temperature in contact with bonafide Spiritual Master and devotees, the soul again becomes Krishna Con- scious, like the water. If someone is fortunate enough to find out a bonafide Spiritual Master, his life is successful. And to be fortunate, there must be sincerity, and Krishna will lead him to a bonafide Spiritual Master. Purusha means God or Krishna. Atma, there is Paramatma and jivatma. Both are atma because they are spiritual, but the living entities are called jivatma. Jivatma means the small particle of atma which has tendency to fall down in the ma- terial atmosphere. He is caled jivatma. And Atma or Supersoul, Who never falls in material contamination, is called Paramatma or Supersoul. And because He does not fall under material illusion, His another Name is Achyuta—Achyuta means never fallen. I hope you are well with your good child, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Mukunda, and My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your respectful letters dated Nov. 7, 1968, and I have noted the contents with great interest. I shall reply them separately. Dayananda has told me that Mr. George Harrison is interested to see 588 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda me, and he is going to stay one week more, and so let us see what happens. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-17 Los Angeles 13th November, 1968 My Dear Kris, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter and have noted the contents carefully. Yes, you were very kind to massage when I was there in Santa Fe, and I thank you very much for this. I have noted your questions carefully, and regarding your question about the Prasadam recipes; Krishna is offered foodstuff in goodness. The foodstuffs in the modes of goodness are wheat, rice, pulse (beans, peas), sugar, honey, butter and all milk preparations, vegetables, flowers, fruits, grains. So these foods can be offered in any shape, but prepared in various ways by the intelligence of the devotees. The ingredients are always the same as above, whether you fry them, boil them, bake them, powder them, or what- ever way they are combined or cooked, the idea is that they must come from this group of foodstuffs. So you can make your own recipe if you like, so long as the in- gredients are within this group. This foods group is stated by Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita, and we follow accord- ingly. Now the thing is that you must con- sider by whom you are being taught what is healthy and what is not healthy. What is their authority? Actually, this healthy and non-healthy is a material consideration, and we are simply interested in what Krishna wants, so we offer to Him to eat whatever He wants. And He asks for food preparations from within this group. I hope this will clarify the questions about Prasadam preparations for you to under- stand. Regarding your question about Yogananda, you write to say that you “‘re- ceived the impression from his autobiog- raphy that he was a genuine saint who dedicated his life to serving God.” But the thing is that you do not actually know what is a genuine saint, and what can you understand about saintly life from reading his autobiography. I may inform you that just recently I visited his so-called ashram retreat, and it was simply a hodge-podge of all nonsense. There was a Buddha statue, a Christ statue, aGandhi’s mem- orium labeled as “World Peace Memmor- ium’’—and what world peace he has brought? None. And what does Gandhi have to do with spiritual realization any- way? Gandhi was simply interested to get the Britishers out of India—what has this to do with self realization, the prime goal of life? And here and there, there were signs of all sorts, like “Be still and realize I am God’’—what is this, by be- coming silent and still one becomes God?! The stone is silent for millions of years, does that mean it has become God? This is all conglomeration of nonsense ideas. Practically, this Yogananda has no philosophy or authority, he simply drags in Buddha, Jesus Christ, Gandhi, and whoever else he can think to put, so that whatever you like it is in his shop. He is just a good shop keeper. Krishna says—Give up all nonsense engagements and come here and surren- der unto Me!—that is real philosophy. Krishna says that anyone who is worship- ping any demigod, it is all nonsense, and just give it up and come to me. Our phi- losophy is to worship Radha and Krishna. We don’t make any hodge-podge or any compromise. If you like you can accept it, and if you are fortunate you will accept, NOVEMBER, 1968 589 and be happy, but this hodge-podge non- sense will never help you. Just like we prescribe certain rules and restrictions for our disciples so that they can make real advancement in spiritual life. This Yogananda gives no restrictions or regula- tive principles to his disciples, and thereby collects all nonsense class of men. But if you put restrictions then not so many men will come, but sincere ones will come, those who are actually sin- cerely searching after real spiritual life. This Yogananda accepts everything as bonafide, because he simpy doesn’t know what is bonafide and what is nonsense. So there is no need to waste your time. Ican understand you are planning to go on world tour, but I think there is no need for wasting your time on such world tour. Better you chant Hare Krishna sitting in one place, that is far better. What for you want to go on world tour—people every- where are doing the same thing, eating, sleeping, mating, and defending—each in some slightly different way, but same sub- stance is there. There are the same streets, same people, same cars, same trees, etc. everywhere, somewhere a hill, some- where sandy, somewhere some water— but what is the profit of seeing so much scenery? It is better if you want to travel, you can travel to preach and spread this Krishna Consciousness to the suffering humanity at large. You can travel with our Samkirtan party if you like. They are presently here in Los Angeles, and they are making program to go to London, then over Europe, then eventually on to India, etc. So if you want to travel I recommend you travel with them, and chant Hare Krishna with them wherever you go. And you will profit by this sort of travel, whereas the other is a waste of time practi- cally. So that is my opinion, that you would do far better not to waste your time in this way. Thanking you once more for your let- ter, and hoping this meets you in good health and I remain Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-18 Los Angeles 13th November, 1968 My Dear Harer Nama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter, undated, and thank you so much for it. Yes, your place is very nice, don’t try to change it, but try to improve it. Better try to have Samkirtan and get one mridanga from New York by paying them, and in this way try to im- prove the attendance of the temple. Your ideas you mention are very good. Try to search out jobs, and eventually if you can establish your own means of income that will be very nice. Please keep me informed at least once in a fortnight of your progress there, and I shall be looking to hear from you all, and hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Patit Pavana, now, Patit Uddharan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter, and thank you very much for it. That you are chanting and reading with great delight is very good. Please continue this practice and the delight will continue to increase the more you increase sincerity. I understand also that your family is now reading Back To Godhead, and this is also very good. Just try to explain this philosophy to them, and convince them in this way. I understand that there is also a devotee in N.Y. with similar name, so I am hereby changing your name to Patit Uddharan. The meaning is practically the same. Patit means fallen, and Pavana means deliverer 590 Letters from Srila Prabhupada of, and Uddharan means to lift up. So Patit Uddharan means One who lifts up the fallen souls, or Deliverer of the fallen souls. I hope you are all well, and just con- tinue and try to make the temple there very successful. There are many young people searching after the real path of spiritual realization, and you simply have to make it readily available to them. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-19 Los Angeles 13th November, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter of Nov. 7, 1968, and thank you very much for it. Re- garding your question, Sayamrupa means the Original Form. Sayamprakash means Balaram. And Tadekatmarupa is the Pu- rusha, just like Mahavishnu. It is not nec- essary to remember or fully understand all these different forms, at the present, but it is like if you simply stick to the mas- ter faithfully that is very good, but if you know that my master is so great, and so rich, and great in this way and rich in this way, and that way, then your veneration for your master will increase. To know Krishna is great, how He is expanded into different forms, that enhances our attach- ment to Krishna more rigidly. You ask about the desire for fame. Fame is a material desire, but to desire fame in Krishna Consciousness is not bad. If you think that people may know me as a great devotee of Krishna, that they may acknowledge me a nice devotee of Krishna, that is not at all bad. But even one is highly elevated in Krishna Con- sciousness he should not think himself a great devotee, he should think himself al- ways humble. You can celebrate Rasalila by having nice kirtan and prasadam distribution, that is our way of celebrating. Your question, “When one has be- come pure enough, Krishna conscious, does one take regular dictation from one’s Guru Maharaj? I know You to confirm yes, but how is this so? Understanding that each individual has a certain particu- lar rasa with Krishna, how would one re- late with another soul of a different rasa? Especially between that of the Guru and disciple?” That doesn’t matter. The Spiri- tual Master’s position is to train the disci- ples. Just like a teacher, he may be a very expert mathematician, but in the lower class he is teaching English. The Spiritual Master’s duty is to train him, but when he comes to the perfectional stage of train- ing, then he realizes his position. That is not a gift of the Spiritual Master, the Spiri- tual Master helps him to realize his rela- tionship with the Lord. Just like the student in lower stages has to study so many things as preliminary education, English, history, math, etc., but in higher stage of education, he has got a particular taste for a special subject, so he special- izes as a mathematician or a historian, etc. So that special qualification reveals in the higher stage. So these topics are not to be discussed in the conditioned stage, and when we come to the liberated stage we can understand. This is useless talks in the preliminary stage. In the beginning let us do the preliminary routine work very nicely, and be cured of the disease (out of maya), then we can know what taste you have for what particular type of food. So these things are not to be discussed at the present moment. Yes, you can pray to Krishna—Krishna may be prayed that I am unwilling to be- come Krishna Conscious, so you can force me to become so. You put me under certain circumstances so that I may be forced to accept Krishna Consciousness. NOVEMBER, 1968 591 You can pray like that. Itis Krishna’s spe- cial favor and mercy that He sometimes forces a devotee to surrender fully to Him. Hoping you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-20 Los Angeles 13th November, 1968 My Dear Tosan Krishna, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter (undated) and thank you very much for it. Your senti- ments are very kind, and I very much ap- preciate them. Regarding your question about what determines our fortune, gen- erally when we are in the material world, we try to be prosperous by material opu- lence. Just like a common man tries to have a good house, a good wife, a good property, good social prestige, and this way, go on increasing the bodily concept of life, and possess more and more in rela- tionship to the body. This is unfortunate. All living entities beginning from Brahma down to an ant, everyone is trying to in- crease such materialistic way of happy life without knowing that any amount of mate- rial comforts of life cannot make the spiri- tual living entities happy. Therefore, when a living entity becomes very serious to become really happy and gets into touch with Krishna Consciousness by the Grace of Krishna and the Spirtual Master, that is the beginning of his fortunate life. And the more one becomes advanced in that fortunate way of life, the more he be- comes happier and happier. This is the difference between fortunate and unfortu- nate. The beginning of contact with Krishna Consciousness is the beginning of good fortune. That some people may come and others may not, this is also due to association. Suppose. a man acciden- tally comes in contact with our society and gives some service willingly or un- willingly, that is the beginning of his for- tunate life. We go from door to door canvassing people to join Krishna Con- sciousness movement means that we are trying to make them fortunate. Anyone who gives some service to this Krishna Consciousness movement is fortunate proportionately. At least the seed of his fortunate life is sown there. Whether he gives service of some sort, willingly or evenunwillingly, the seed is sown, and the fortune will come proportionately. Even if somebody looks shabby and unclean, ifhe simply says this Krishna Consciousness is very nice thing, even he is notableto take full advantage of it at the time, still he is far more fortunate than any Rockerfeller. And your question about Bhisma deva, after he left this planet, he went to Vaikun- tha. Because he was Narayana worship- per. In Bhisma’s prayer, it is clear that he is worshipper of Four Handed Narayana. Although he knew that Narayana and Krishna are non-different, but his affec- tion was for Narayana. Therefore he en- tered the Narayana loka. Those who are devotees of Narayana or Krishna, they are not afraid of any planet, even they are sent in the heavenly planets or the hellish planets, because they have Narayana within their heart, they are equally situated. Hope you are well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-21 Los Angeles 14th November, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Nov. 9, 1968, and I have noted the contents care- fully. It is good to hear that the temple is going on nicely, and you are selling Back 592 Letters from Srila Prabhupada To Godheads also 400 per month. I un- derstand you are trying to get more lec- tures at colleges, also in sociology and political classes and philosophy classes. You should not give political or social dis- cussions, while speaking on Krishna Consciousness philosophy from Bha- gavad Gita and Srimad Bhagavatam you can simply touch on some socio-political implications. Krishna Consciousness is so broad and all inclusive that naturally when speaking in Krishna Consciousness we get so many oportunities to deal in politics although that is not our subject matter. To do so requires expert handling. You can take part in such classes and present the subject matter in such a way that it may at first appear like socio- political-philosophical affairs, but actu- ally introduce our Krishna Conscious- ness philosophy. That requires tactful handling. You can give it a political etc., headline, and then end it with our philoso- phy. This is Visokumbham Payomukhan. That means to give somebody a jar of poi- son with a label of nectarine or milk prep- aration on it. So we have to become politician in this way, just like in old poli- tics there was presentation of Visokanya. This visokanya is a poison beautiful girl. The idea was that a baby girl was from the very beginning administered little doses of poison everyday, which she could toler- ate. And gradually increasing the doses, culminating in large doses when she was youth. Such girls were engaged in killing enemies. The enemy will be received as a guest, and this girl will be engaged for looking after his comfort, and when they are friendly, as soon as the enemy will kiss the girl in the mouth, the poisonous effect will immediately affect, because with tongue the poison is very quickly effec- tive. And the enemy would die. Similarly, we have to introduce Krishna Conscious- ness in such a way that through politics and sociology they will be injected and become Krishna Consciousness. But in- stead of being a victim, they will be im- mortalized. That is the difference. The story of Ramanujacharya as stated by you is not disobedience. It was a great fervor for the disciple to advance the mis- sionary cause of the Spiritual Master. Such rare instances are sometimes visible in many places. Just like there [TEXT UNCLEAR] lying on the floor. The story is like this: Chaitanya Mahaprabhu after taking His lunch would rest for a while and Govinda was daily massaging His feet. So one day Chaitanya Mahaprabhu fell asleep very soon and keeping His head on the thresh- old. So while He was sleeping, Govinda came crossing the body of Chaitanya and massaged His Feet. But he was sitting there, so when Chaitanya Mahaprabhu was awake He saw that Govinda was sit- ting there although it was too late. So He inquired, ‘‘Govinda, you have not taken your Prasadam, you are sitting here?” So he replied, “Yes, I shall go now to take Prasadam.” Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in- quired, “Why so late?” He replied, “I could not goon the other side because You were lying on the threshold.” Chaitanya Mahaprabhu said, “How did you come in?” He flatly replied, “By crossing You.” Then He inquired, “Why did you not go out by crossing Me?” Govinda said, “That I cannot do. I came crossing You inside the room for Your service, but I cannot go out crossing You for taking my lunch. That would be for my sense gratifi- cation.” The idea is for service of the su- perior sometimes such violation appears to be in the scene. Ramanujacharya vio- lated the order of the Spiritual Master to advance the cause of the Spiritual Master. The Spiritual Master’s mission was to de- liver fallen souls, therefore Ramanujacha- rya considered that if the mantra was so powerful to deliver the persons, why not deliver it to everyone as soon as possible. NOVEMBER, 1968 593 That was a little tactic to advance the cause of the Spiritual Master. So every- thing has to be judged by the motive, and as the motive of such apparent violation was very good, Ramanuja’s Spiritual Master embraced him. This is not actu- ally violating the order of the Spiritual Master. But such actions are very rarely to be done. Yes, there is definitely a vast difference between initiated and non-initiated. One who is initiated is authorized, and oné who is not initiated is not authorized. Just like, for example, Pradyumna is attending class in Sanskrit in a college, he is given chance to learn Sanskrit, but he is not equal with the regular students. One who becomes initiated is channelized to the au- thorities in the disciplic succession. One who isn’t initiated may chant Hare Krishna (and should certainly be encour- aged to do so) and serve in his own way, and gradually by doing so he may want to be initiated. But otherwise he may fall away from following the rules and regula- tions. The clothing is already painted on the Jagganathas, even there is no cloth. And even Krishna is naked, that does not make any difference. But when we dress Him, our service is appreciated. From Krishna’s side, naked or dressed, He is Krishna. And from our side, if we nicely dress Krishna and nicely feed Him, He is appreciating our service and we are cer- tainly benefited. Krishna is the same; He does not require us to dress Him, or feed him, etc., but the more I serve by dress- ing, feeding and caring for Him, He ap- preciates the service, and I become more Krishna Conscious. Yes, it is all right to continue painting Lord Chaitanya and the Gopies as you have been, in flesh tone. It is not mentioned how many hands the different Brahmas from the different universes have. Maybe four hands. Yes, they ride on swans. I am sending herewith the tape, so you do the work on your dictaphone and send me regularly the typed copies. Don’t stop sending them, it makes me stop also. Un- less I get back the typed copies it doesn’t encourage me. So you send me the typed copies regularly and I shall send you the tapes regularly. What about the 3rd Canto? I know that I have made up to the 3rd Canto 7th chapter and the present tape is continuation, but I am in darkness where are the papers. So give me an ac- count where are the papers. I am concerned about Jadurany’s health condition—has she got any fever? If she has feverish condition, she should simply lie down and do no work. Hope you are well, and please keep me informed of your temple affairs, as well as about Jadurany’s health condition. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I hae received the Indian letter __ you. 68-11-22 Los Angeles 14th November, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 7, and I am very glad to know that you are working in San Francisco equally with the same enthusaism as I saw you here when I was in Los Angeles last year. Perhaps you have heard it that for the time being we have no temple. The landlord in Hollywood Blvd. did not like our devotees to stay there, and he returned $450 so that we would move our articles there from the storefront. So the Deities are here in my apartment, so I do not know how we shall find out a suitable place. And when there is a nice suitable place for our temple, 594 Letters from Srila Prabhupada then I shall consider whether you are to come back. For the mean time, you work in San Francisco, and try to organize sales of our Back To Godhead as many as possi- ble. I have not heard anything from Chid- ananda since a long time, and I hope he along with the other devotees are all well. I understand that on the average you are collecting $22 aday, so this is nice, just go on trying to increase. Whenever the Indian community in- vites you to go and take Prasadam, be al- ways kind with them, and go there and chant Hare Krishna. They are vegetarian, so whatever Prasadam they prepare you offer to the Deity and enjoy it. Regarding your questions: Your first quesiton, “Are great sages put under yogamaya or maya? Also are all the eter- nally liberated souls under yogamaya?”’ Yogamaya means the mercy of the Su- preme Lord which connects a devotee in the transcendental loving service of the Lord, and mahamaya means the external potency of the Lord which puts a condi- tioned soul into illusion that he will be happy by material adjustment. So great sages who are impersonalists are also un- der the spell of mahamaya, because a con- ditioned soul in the material world wants to improve his material position as exalted as possible, and the concept of becoming one with the Supreme Lord is the greatest illusion for them. Because it is a fact that nobody can be equal or greater than the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and as such, anyone desiring to become one with the Supreme means that he is still in the trap of maya. On the other hand, a humble devotee who may not be a great sage, but simpy by his implicit acceptance of the Lotus Feet of the Lord as the goal of his life means that he is under the protection of yogamaya. I think this will clear the idea. Your next question, “‘Is there a differ- ence between Arjuna’s body and his soul, and how does this apply to all Krishna’s eternally liberated souls described in the scriptures. Is Arjuna always the same in his appearances with Krishna or is a new soul taking his body each time?” Yes, there is difference. Therefore he forgets his past activities. Just like we forget our- selves while dreaming because our subtle body acts at that time differently from the gross body. Similarly, by changing this body or transmigrating from one body to another, we forget all the activities of our previous body. The associates of the Lord, even though they have a different body, or even though they forget the activities of their past body, still they are associates of the Lord. These explanations are given in the Bhagavad Gita as it is. Your next question, ‘‘Is a pure devotee eternally liberated and if so is he at any time a conditioned soul? We are eternally conditioned, but as soon as we surrender to Krishna do we then become eternally liberated? When Lord Christ appeared he seemed to be conditioned in his growth. Was he a specific incarnation or a condi- tioned soul who became liberated?” You are not eternally conditioned. You are eternally liberated but since we have be- come conditioned on account of our de- sire to enjoy materialistic way of life, from time immemorial, therefore it appears that we are eternally conditioned. Be- cause we cannot trace out the history or the date when we became conditioned, therefore it is technically called eternally conditioned. Otherwise the living entity is notactually conditioned. A living entity is always pure. But he is prone to be at- tracted by material enjoyment and as soon as he agrees to place himself in material enjoyment, he becomes conditioned, but that is not permanent. Therefore a living entity is called on the marginal state, sometimes this side, sometimes that side. These are very intelligent questions. And I am very glad that you are putting such NOVEMBER, 1968 595 intelligent questions and trying to under- stand it. It is very good. But best thing is that one should know he is in conditioned life and try to cure it. When a man is in diseased condition he should try to get out of diseased condition without harassing his brain when the disease has begun. But it is to be understood that the disease is not our constant companion, it is temporary. So the best thing is to cure the disease, and not waste our time to find out the date when it began. Forgetfulness of Krishna is the disease, so let us keep ourselves al- ways in Krishna Consciousness, and get out of the disease, that is healthy life. Yes, Lord Jesus was jivatattva. He is not Vishnu tattva. When a jiva tattva becomes specifically empowered by the Lord, he is called Shaktavesh avatar. Lord Buddha and Lord Jesus Christ were in this group of Shaktavesh avatars. But they were not in conditioned state when they appeared; they came to teach here. You should all read very carefully Sri- mad Bhagavatam and Bhagavad Gita, and you should be able to answer all questions like this, and only in rare cases approach me. But it is important that our students must be able to answer all questions for becoming preachers. Arati is performed at 1 1/2 hour before sunrise to awaken the Deities. Each offer- ing is made by moving it in 7 big circles, starting at the Lotus Feet of the Lord, and going clockwise round. First of all, burn- ing camphor or ghee (5 fires if possible) is offered in this way, slowly circling them before the Lord. With left hand bell is be- ing rung, and with right hand the offerings are made by circling. Next burning dhoop is offered. Then water is offered in a conchshell. Then a nice handkerchief is offered. Then a nice flower, as a rose. Then the Deities are offered a fan, nice peacock feather fan. And the last item is the blowing ofthe conch shell three times. Throughout arati there is bell ringing, cymbals, mridanga, gong, harmonium, etc. Hope you are all well, and please keep me informed on the progress of the temple there. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-23 Los Angeles 15th November, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 7, 1968, and I very much appreciate your sincere endeavor for preaching our Krishna Consciousness movement. I have received one letter from Dr. Athvale whom you met in Amsterdam, and he was so much pleased with your behavior and talk that he has been induced to see me at Los Angeles. A qualified disciple in- creases the importance of the Spiritual Master. So I find in you some good quali- ties. You think yourself as very humble but you appreciate the services of your God-brothers and I am very much pleased on your such behavior. I have received the news cutting. This is also very nice at- tempt, and by your sincere endeavor you have now got a nice house to stay free of charges till it is sold. So all this encour- ages me that you are doing your best, and Krishna will bless you for your noble at- tempt. Hope this will find you in good health, along with your good wife Yamuna devi. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami I hope his meets you in good health, along with Janaki, and Malati and Shyamsun- dar, and Miss Saraswati. Please continue to keep me informed, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 596 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda 68-11-24 Los Angeles 16th November, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 11, 1968, and I have noted the con- tents. Later on I heard from Tamal Krishna that Purushottam has decided to come here and I also heard that Garga- muni has got a nice apartment by his father. So I am little relieved that Garga- muni has now a good apartment. But about him I have already written to you in my letter dated Nov. 12, 1968, and you should inform him about my opinion when he comes to New York. If he feels too much inconvenience at the care of his father, he may come back to you and help you there in New York. Regarding DiaNippon publication, I think if we disregard them and print Teachings of Lord Chaitanya at this ma- ture moment, it will not be very much to our own good credit. They have advanced so much already and they have invested money to some extent, and if we stop at this moment, this will not be very good for us. They have got good regard for us and we must maintain this position. The best thing is therefore that you send them an urgent telegram that we must get the books by the end of this month, and other- wise we will arrange for printing else- where. So we must give them a notice to warn them before we take up the work for printing ourselves. Regarding opening of the press, my idea is that unless we are fully indepen- dent, in all departmental works of the press, we should not attempt it. Your sug- gestion that the papers may be sent to Hol- land for binding is completely utopian. If we print we must bind ourselves also. This is not practical proposal that we shall print in our press, and send for binding in other countries. Therefore it is essential that some of our boys may learn about binding also. When we start our own press, we must simply print our own publications and magazines and books. We shall not accept any outside work, and by selling books and magazines, we shall have to maintain the family of our devo- tees, or the brahmacharies. That should be the ideal work. We shouldn’t depend for maintaining the workers by accepting outside job works. So for the time being, the DiaNippon business must be finished immediately. Then after getting Teach- ings of Lord Chaitanya, along with Bha- gavad Gita, we will try to start our own press by the sales proceeds. Regarding Rama Krishna’s book re- viewing, I am not very much in favor of this unnecessary publicity to a person whom we do not like. We know that this institution is a bogus humbug only with- out any substance, and why should we bring them in prominence by criticizing them. They are not very much popular in America. They are working for the last 75 or 80 years in this country, since 1893, but I think our ISKCON institu- tion is better known in your country than the RamaKrishna missionary ac- tivities. If you actually make progress in the constructive program of our Krishna Consciousness movement very soon we shall surpass all nonsensical activi- ties, including RamaKrishna mission, Yogananda ashram, or so many yoga so- cieties. Simply we have to push on the Samkirtan party and organize them nicely. And increase the sale of our Back To Godhead. I understand that you are still plan- ning to send order to the United Ship- ping. You should immediately send them the order to execute if you have not done as yet. We shall require so many kholes and kartals for spreading this Samkirtan movement. I understand that JayaGovinda has sent NOVEMBER, 1968 597 the Bhagavatam, 2nd canto, by registered surface mail. But I do now know when it will come. He sent a packet of medicine some 3 months ago, by surface mail, to the adress of Montreal temple, but it is not yet reached. The best thing would have been to send the package to United Ship- ping corporation for being dispatched with the kholes. Regarding Purushottam, both you and Rayarama have inquired from me what specific duty he will have to execute here. My intention of calling him is that he ex- pressed a strong desire to live with me in Montreal, so I wish to keep him with me at least for some time and train him to act as secretary. Of course, he will work in other spheres also, to secure advertise- ment, but in case Govinda dasi goes to Hawaii, I shall require a secretary. Govinda dasi is quite competent to act and she is doing very nicely, she is willing worker, educated and intelligent, every- thing complete, but the only thing is that she is young girl and I am a Sanyasi. At the presenttime of course Goursundar has : gone there without any money, so he has no sufficient means just now for her to go there. At the present moment she is living at night with Nandarani and in the day- time she is assisting me as my secretary. Formerly when Goursundar was with me, she was living at night here also, but since he has gone with great responsibility for oragnizing a Hawaii center, he cannot be called, although I am feeling his separa- tion because he was always helping me day and night. So after all it is an experi- ment, I do not know how the future program shall be fixed up, but if Purushottam’s service is absolutely needed in New York, then he may go back again. Hope this meets you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-25 Los Angeles 17th November, 1968 My Dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 12, 1968, and I thank you very much for the copies of Back To Godhead, no. 20. It is very nice. Please send the copies very quickly to different centers. I have re- ceived letters from Hawaii also that they are eagerly awaiting the consignment of Back To Godhead. Another important point is that you can enlist the following name for send- ing complimentary copies of Back To Godhead. Niranjan Samanta, Assistant Teacher Harasankar Garkilla Santamayi Higher Secondary School P.O. Harasankar Dist. Midnapur West Bengal, INDIA Hope this meets you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Note to Brahmananda: I understand from the letter of Sat- svarupa that they have received a Pair of Radha Krishna murti from India, sent by Jayagovinda, and they want to worship the Deities so you can send him the necessary instructions how to do it. ACB P.S. The current issue of Back to Godhead is better than all previous ones. So you are tangibly improving the quality of B.T.G. May Krishna bless you improve it more & more. Tamal sold yesterday 87 copies at a length. He is very much satisfied with this issue. Hayagriva is also doing nicely. At Columbus fighting against Frog Philoso- phy. 598 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-11-26 Los Angeles 18th November, 1968 My Dear Pradyumna, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 12, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. Now you are in good opportunity to do the transliteration work and in coop- eration with your professors and Haya- griva, make the Srimad Bhagavatam revised edition in such a nice way that it may be accepted in any scholarly society. In the last editions, because the transcrip- tion was not there, some of the universi- ties in the western countries refused to stock them. Of course, the American Congress library purchasing department in India are pleased to purchase 18 copies of my Srimad Bhagavatam, as soon as it is published and they have open order for it. Still we want it to be done so nicely that it may not be refused by any scholarly sec- tion. So the transliteration and divisions should be so nicely done that it will go to your credit when they are accepted every- where. I think by Krishna’s Grace Haya- griva’s attempt to revise it nicely and your attempt to fix up transliteration perfectly will make the next edition as perfect as possible. Do it very sincerely, and also pray Krishna to help you, and I am sure it will come out successful. I hope this will meet you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-27 Los Angeles 18th November, 1968 My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your short note along with Hayagriva’s letter. Iam so glad to re- ceive your note because I was a little rest- less for not receiving your letters since a few days. I have written already to Haya- griva about New Vrindavana how I am thinking of this place. And let us jointly endeavor for fulfilling this purpose. Yes, this climate of California, especially Los Angeles is very nice. I am always anxious to go and see the Govardhan hills in New Vrindaban and I hope Krishna will fulfill my desire as soon as possible. I hope this meets you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-28 Los Angeles 18th November, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of Nov. 12, 1968, and I am very much pleased to note the contents. The handbill of Dr. Frog, Ph.D. is very funny, and we should try to fight with these frog philosophers overcrowding all over the world. Your success in kirtan performances in the Uni- versity campus is also very encouraging. New Vrindaban should be taken up very seriously because actually I want to develop a replica of Old Vrindaban. I have got ambition to construct there 7 temples as follows: 1. Radha Madan Mohan, 2. Radha Govinda, 3. Radha Gopinath, 4. Radha Damodara, 5. Radha Raman, 6. Radha Gokulananda, 7. Radha Shyam- sundar. The whole modern city of Vrinda- ban was established originally with these temples, started by different Goswamins. And later on, many kings and princes started their own temples and thus the present Vrindaban is now full with small and big 5000 temples. We have to make such scheme in our New Vrindaban, gradually expanding to an area of one mile long and one mile broad. Bamandev is NOVEMBER, 1968 599 still here, and I have advised him to con- struct some thrones for Radha and Krishna, because NaraNarayana is at- tempting to get some pairs of Radha Krishna Murtis 24” high. We shall re- quire so many pairs of Radha Krishna Murtis at different temples. Anyway, do not feel discouraged. As soon as New Vrindaban is connected with a link road as well as electricity, very soon it will de- velop into our idea. I shall personally go and stay there and see it is developed. Regarding Srimad Bhagavatam, please send me the chapters which you have al- ready revised. I want to see it, how it is being done. I am glad that you are not omitting anything, but just making gra- matical correction, and phrasing for force and clarity, and adding Pradyumna’s transliteration, that is very nice. Yes, henceforward, as I have already told you, that Srimad Bhagavatam will be ultimately seen by you, before being printed., That will keep consistency, I quite agree with you. My present plan is to stay in Los Angeles, perhaps at least for more than a month, which will cover Christmas holidays. And so, during that time, if you come here, it will be very nice. In January I may go to Hawaii, if Goursundar takes me there. As you have given up the idea of marriage, I think you can give up the idea of seeing your parents annually. You just prepare yourself for further advanced spiritual life. After all, our mundane relationships with father and mother, or wife and children, can not protect us from the trap of maya. It is said by one Vaishnava poet that in every form of life, one gets a father and mother, be- cause without father and mother, nobody is able to get a material body. So father and mother is possible in any form of body, but only in this human form of body one can get in touch with Krishna and a bonafide Spiritual Master. That is the highest gain of our travelling in different species of life in different planets. I am so pleased that you are feeling for me and listening to my old tapes with plea- sure. As you are remembering our old meeting days on the second avenue, when I first started my lectures there, similarly I also remember the incidents and speak to so many friends and disciples. So our meeting was Krishna’s desire. Apparently it was accidental but actually it was Krishna’s plan. So we should always re- member this plan of Krishna and must continue to work jointly for advancement of Krishna Consciousness movement in this part of the world. I shall always pray to Krishna to give you more and more strength and confidence in this great re- sponsibility and I shall pray for your long life to execute this mission. Thank you once more for your nice sentiments, and I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I would like to know whether if two young boys come there, if you can take charge of them as teacher for them. They are very nice young Krishna Conscious boys, and their mother is very much in fa- vor of them being trained up in our phi- losophy. They are between 10 and 12 years about. By teaching I mean teaching them The Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, Bhagavad Gita, and Srimad Bhagavatam, not preliminary education; preliminary education they already know. Please let me know about this. ACB 68-11-29 Los Angeles 18th November, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter and noted reports of work there at your center and with great satisfaction. Please do it nicely. You are 600 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda intelligent and Krishna will give you more and more intelligence to serve Him. I shall ask Jayananda for the permit and he will send it to you, along with the informa- tion required. You will be glad to know that we lost our Hollywood temple, but by Grace of Krishna we have got a better place at a cheaper rent already on the Melrose ave- nue. And we are going to occupy the same within a day or two if all goes as planned. Everything is going on nicely here, and please keep me informed with regular re- ports of your activities there. If you think so, Gary can be initiated by post and you can arrange it for him. Hope you are all well there, Your ever well-wisher, 68-11-30 Los Angeles 19th November, 1968 My dear Rayrama, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknoweldge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 15, 1968, and noted the contents. I have already sent news to Mr. Barkley and Gehring to see me here. It appears that they want to start some magazine on reli- gion. So I asked them to see me here. And I shall talk with them and see what is their idea. Regarding Press: I have already written to Brahmananda how the press should be started. The following princi- ples should be followed strictly in our press: All the works of the press, includ- ing binding, and everything should be done by our men. We shall not accept any outside job for maintaining of this press. We will print simply our books and maga- zines, etc. And the boys and their families should be maintained by the sales proceeds of books and magazines. Brahmananda told me that binding in N.Y. is very expensive, and he is thinking of sending the papers to Holland for bind- ing. These proposals are not at all practi- cal. You write to say that Purushottam is desperate to come here, and stay with me for a while, so let him come, and if need be he will go back again. Regarding your prediction of cataclys- mic earthquakes in this side of your coun- try, your fear of my life is certainly natural. I was pet child of my father whom I lost in 1930, and since then nobody was taking care of me as affectionate son. But Krishna has sent me so many fathers to take care of me in a far distant place in USA. So I am fortunate enough that you are all so anxious, but we must always de- pend on Krishna. Rest assured that this nonsense idea of cataclysmic earthquakes will never take place. And even if it takes place, why should we be afraid of it? As soon as there is sign of such earthquake, we shall sit down together and chant Hare Krishna. So it will be a great opportunity of meeting death while chanting Hare Krishna. If one dies on sound condition of body and mind chanting Hare Krishna, he is the most fortunate man. There is a prov- erb in which it is said, ““My dear royal prince, please do not die. My dear Brahmachary, you die immediately. My dear saintly person, you die or live it is all the same. My dear butcher, you do notdie and do not live.’ So we are neither butcher nor royal prince, some of us are Brahmacharies, and some of us are sup- posed to be saintly persons, so if the Brahmacharies die, he immediately goes to Vaikuntha, and if the saintly person dies, he is all the same—he is engaged here in Krishna’s work, and he will be en- gaged in Krishna’s work there also. So don’t bother about this earthquake busi- ness. Chant Hare Krishna peacefully and do your duty nicely. Of course, if there is such danger, I must take care like others. It is not good however unnecessarily risk my life, but I think the predictions given by so many astrologers are not very NOVEMBER, 1968 601 sound. I take your advice that as soon as there are series of minor tremors I must leave for your shelter. Regarding propaganda against animal slaughter in BTG. Please do not print any picture showing how a cow is being mur- dered in our BTG. This will pollute the whole atmosphere. We are not meant for moving anyone’s sentiment against animal slaughter, we are neither Buddhists or Jains, whose main propaganda is against animal slaughter. Even the so-called vegetarians who do not take Krishna Prasadam are as much sinful as the non-vegetarians. Our propaganda is dif- ferent, to make people Krishna Con- scious, which automatically makes them sympathetic against any kind of animal slaughter. According to Srimad Bhagava- tam, one living entity subsists on the life of other living entities, either vegetarian or non-vegetarian. But we are neither of them. We are not vegetarian nor non- vegetarian. We are transcendental. We are concerned with Krishna Prasadam. Try to popularize Krishna Prasadam as you have already done. People will naturally be- come vegetarian without any ghastly propaganda. The pictures of a Mahajan or similar pictures for propagating the Bhagvat conclusion should be our objec- tive. Other pictures, there are so many subject matters, just like we follow 4 prin- ciples, say for example, illicit sex life, we can publish so many pictures of illicit sex life, but that will not advance our cause. Similarly we may make propaganda against animal slaughter, but that will not advance our real cause. KC is based on pure understanding, not by any sentimen- tal provocation. People must be intelligent enough to catch up this KC movement without being carried away by any senti- mental wave. We should always remem- ber that we do not belong to any group like the karmies, jnanins, or yogis. We belong to pure devotional service group, follow- ing the footprints of great Mahajans. Our purpose should be that we are in one side and all others they are on the other side. We deprecate everyone, even one who is against animal slaughter. In the Chaitanya Charitamrita, it is clearly said that there are two classes of activities. Pious and im- pious. We do not favor any one of them. Neither we favor any philosophical specu- lation, we simply stick to Krishna, and wish to render loving transcendental ser- vice unto Him. That should be our main objective, and the policy of BTG must be pursued on this line of action. I hope you will understand me rightly. Everyone who is not a KC person is a butcher. Even the so-called pious man, who is not in KC, he is also a butcher. Because he is killing his own self. So in our view, everyone is butcher, and everyone is theif also, be- cause he is enjoying Krishna’s property. So how we can discriminate who is honest and dishonest and butcher and not butcher? Our only test is how one is taking to KC: Even a so-called butcher comes we welcome to chant Hare Krishna. Hoping you are well. Your ever well wisher, 68-11-31 Los Angeles 18th November, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 16, 1968, and it is very encouraging that Devananda is combatting with Mr. Jarvis representing Maharishi Mahesh. Yes, in each and every such meeting you should go and challenge these persons, but you must be equipped very strongly with con- clusions of the Bhagavad Gita. In the Bha- gavad Gita it is clearly said that the first class yogi is he who has in his heart always the eternal form of Krishna. I could not follow what Devananda said to the Jerry 602 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Jarvis when he said that he was also wor- shipping Krishna. It is very good to argue with him even at the suspension of meet- ings, and it is very good enthusiasm. Your question, “‘Is it to be understood that once the yogi sees the Narayan Form, his desires for travel and material perfec- tions cease? (as did the desires of Druva Maharaj) Or do the yogis still persist in desiring to do wonders even after seeing Narayan Form? You say, in your essay, Su- per Consciousness, that the topmost is to see Narayan Form and take dictation. In short the question is, is it true that the yogi who is travelling to planets and perform- ing siddhis—has never seen Narayana?” The example of Druva Maharaj, he was a devotee. The yogis are not devotees. They are more or less after some material per- fection. But generally one who sees Na- rayana, he becomes a devotee. And sometimes such devotee before entering the Supreme Abode of Krishna or Nara- yana, they want to see some of the won- ders of this material world. Just like I have come to your country, and I have no inter- est for sight seeing, but my main business is preaching Krishna Consciousness, but still, when I go to anew place, sometimes devotees take me to some important sight seeing place. Similarly, a yogi after be- coming a devotee sometimes go to other planets also and Narayana fulfills such material desires. In other words, a devo- tee even if he wants to fulfill some mate- rial desires, he is given the chance by the Lord, but a pure devotee in higher status does not desire like that. They do not care for any siddhis. Iam glad to learn that Jadurany is feel- ing a little better and I hope you will take proper care fore the girl. I understand that Govinda dasi has recommended Jadurany to take Iron pills and almost all the girls here are taking them. It is compensating the deficiency due to their past habit of meat taking. This is a good recommenda- tion and I hope Jadurany is trying to follow it. Here it is understood that Nandarani, Shama dasi, and others, as well as Govinda dasi are feeling better from taking iron medicine. I hope also you have received my tape and are doing the needful. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-32 Los Angeles 19th November, 1968 My Dear Dinesh and Krishna devi, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Nov. 17 and 14, respectively, and I have noted the contents carefully. I understand that Dinesh’s present job is very tedious and hampering, but because you are now a family man, you must have some steady income. So unless you find out a better job, how can you give up the present one? We step forward when we understand that the forward step is on a sound basis, then we get on the rear step. Your record and film business is not yet started so there is no certain income. The scheme which you have submitted is very nice and appears to be very practical and sound, and you are also very intelligent. Your idea is also very glorious. You want to serve Krishna with all your energies and intelligence, so Ihave got all support and approval of this scheme, but until you have got some in- come, how can I advise you to give up your present job, especially when you are a family man. Of course, if you find it too much tedious, then there is no other alter- native but to give up the job and depend on Krishna, and He will do the needful. Regarding Kallman: The contract is in New York, there in a file, but this Mr. NOVEMBER, 1968 603 Kallman has failed to abide by the con- tract. He printed 10,000 copies of the rec- ord, but he did not pay a single cent. Al- though the contract was that he would pay me 15¢ per record. You can consult your father what is the position. I think Mr. Kallman has broken the terms of the con- tract, but Brahmananda told me that he has taken a letter from Brahmananda adjusting this account. Of course, Brahmananda had no power to adjust this account without my sanction. So you can inquire from Brahmananda what is the position. Otherwise, the contract is al- ready broken. So by joint consultation with your father and Brahmananda you can do the needful. I understand you are coming here by the 23rd instant, and when we meet we shall discuss on this point broadly. But Mr. Kallman is very intrigu- ing. But when he comes before me, he presents himself as a great devotee. So this is the position. But he has not paid me a single cent, that is a fact. Hope you are all well, and I shall be expecting to see you very soon, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-33 Los Angeles 20th November, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of the 17th of Nov., and I have noted the contents care- fully. Yes, get the books from Japan as soon as possible, and I have also written them one letter which you will find en- closed herewith. They have agreed to gold print on the cover, thatis all right. So get it as soon as possible. I think the binding is all right. So not delay, just try to get them as soon as possible. Regarding Uddhava, I am very glad that he is going to marry Leelasuka. She is a very nice girl. I approve. They can wait and finish school as her mother desires. But they can become bethrothed, en- gaged, now. Find out whether Woomapati can translate Back To Godhead into French langauge. He knows French language. Or any other boy or girl who can help in translating Back To Godhead into French. It is very nice that you shall speak on this at the yoga group program. Subal should read carefully that Hathayoga re- ceived in the Bhagavad Gita is very diffi- cult in this age. Yoga system is approved, but nobody can follow the rules and regu- lations strictly, neither there is suitable place for executing it, and everyone is al- ways full of anxiety, so how they can con- centrate? So best thing is to chant Hare Krishna which is forced meditation. In this way make nice speech, and conclude with declaring that the topmost yogi is he who surrenders to Krishna, and worships Krishna with all thoughts, activities, and intelligence. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Bali Mardan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter and I have the noted the contents with great care. Yes, it is a very good opportunity for spreading our KC movement. We require unlimited money for constructing New Vrindaban and other schemes in KC. So if it is possible to get some money from your father’s business and employ it in KC, it will be glorious both for your father and your self. It is a very good opportunity that he has supplied you car and does not object to KC. So gradually turn your fa- ther to KC. Not immediately, but gradu- ally. In the meantime you can serve your father working at his business and live like an aristocratic American gentleman, use 604 Letters from Srila Prabhupadda his car, chant Hare Krishna, and,live with the devotees at the temple. Anyway, your temple attendance must continue. So if it is possible that you shall live with the boys at the temple, then that is very good diea, and work also with your father. Please keep me informed how you are arranging for this matter, as I will be anxious to hear. Hoping you are well, Your ever well- wisher ACB 68-11-34 Los Angeles 20th November, 1968 My Dear Madhusudan, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 16, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. Your sentiment is very much appre- ciated by me, and your service attitude is very nice. It is very good that you are helping to put our our magazine Back To Godhead, and whenever I see the new magazine mailed to me each month, I am so pleased to go through its contents and see all the nice work you have done, and you are always in my thoughts as I read through it, as well as Rayrama, and all your other co-workers. To make this magazine a great success is very very im- portant to the mission. And you along with your co-workers are doing it very nicely. And Krishna will bless you, please continue to do it. Regarding your questions, “I read ina book sent from India that Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur was sent directly by Lord Sri Chaitanya from the spiritual sky. I am not sure if the book was bonafide. Is the above true? Someone, a God-brother brought up that he heard that Srila Bhaktivinode was at one time an imper- sonalist. Was he ever?” Yes, what you have heard is all right. Just like Arjuna is constant companion of Krishna, as it is confirmed inthe 4th chapter, Krishna says that both Arjuna and He apeared many times on this world, but he had forgotten his past appearance and Krishna did not. Krishna is like the sun, and maya is just like darkness. Where Krishna is present there cannot be any darkness of maya. So as Arjuna although always in the presence of Krishna as eternal companion in friendship, still he had some illusion in the battlefield of Kurukshetra, and Krishna had to disipate that darkness by the teachings of Bhagavad Gita. The pur- port is, sometimes even a liberated person like Arjuna plays the part of a conditioned soul in order to play some important part. Similarly, Bhaktivinode Thakur for sometimes was associating with the im- personalists. And then he exhibited him- self in his true color as pure devotee, exactly in the same way as Arjuna exhib- ited in the beginning as a conditioned soul, and then as a liberated soul. So there is nothing to be misunderstood in this con- nection. Krishna and His devotees some- times play like that, as much as Lord Buddha although an incarnation of Krishna, preached the philosophy of void- ism. These things are conducted in terms of place, audience, time, etc. In the Chaitanya Charitamrita it is said that the activities of the Vaishnava cannot be un- derstood even by the greatest scholar. So we have to understand everything through the transparent via media of the Spiritual Master. So there is no doubt about it that Srila Bhaktivinode Thakur is eternal en- ergy of Lord Sri Krishna Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu. And whatever he did, was just to suit the time, place, circumstances, and etc. Thereis no contradiction in his activi- ties. Yes, also, what you have learned about Sukadev is correct. He stayed in the womb of his mother for 16 years because he was fixed on the Brahman conception, and then on hearing the Srimad Bhagava- tam, he became realized and decided to NOVEMBER, 1968 605 come out and be active in the service of the Lord, to enjoy blissful varieties. Yes, it is good that your parents come to the temple, and you engage them how- ever you can in Krishna’s service. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-35 Los Angeles 20th November, 1968 My Dear Patit Uddharan, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter of Nov. 17, and I have noted the contents with care. Yes, I have noted that you would like to go to the New York center for some time. If you think that program is nice then I have no objection to your going there and living with the devotees in the temple there. Yes, try to convince your brothers gradually to come to the temple and take up this Krishna Consciousness. It will be a great service. Please keep me informed of your journey, and when you arrive at the New York temple, write to me and let me know how you are doing there nicely. You can arrange for staying there with Brahmananda and he will take care of you. Hope this meets you in good health, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. The enclosed note was sent to me by er- ror, so you can hand it over to Harer Nama and he will do the needful, as it is urgent, and has to be done before the 29th of Nov. 68-11-36 Los Angeles 21st November, 1968 My Dear Joy Fulcher, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your nice letter with some poems, as well as a nice picture of Radha and Krishna, by separate mail. Unfortunately, in transit the glass is bro- ken into pieces, but still I have kept your picture in my working room, and every- one praises your artistic sense. It is very nice. I am very glad to learn also that you are attempting to paint similar pictures in larger size, that is very good idea. You have got some poetic sense also, and all these talents, the artistic sense and poetic sense, can be engaged in the service of Krishna. All devotees are more or less po- ets. Out of 26 qualifications of a perfect devotee, one is poetic sense. So we can write so many poetries in praise of the Lord, or about His pastimes. Similarly we can draw so many nice pictures about His different activities, andsuch engagements will give us chance to elevate ourself to the perfectional platform of spiritual un- derstanding. By Grace of Krishna I am keeping well nowadays, but Govinda dasi is not keep- ing very well. As she has to go to Nan- darani’s house and again come, so it is a little troublesome so she is a little sick. But by Grace of Krishna everything will be all right. Please offer my blessings to all the devotees there, especially Harsharani, who I understand is cooking very nicely for the love feast. She is a nice decorator of the Deity and a nice cook also for preparing Krishna Prasadam. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-37 Los Angeles 22nd November, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 14, 1968, and have noted the contents care- fully. And I thank you very much for your 606 Letters from Srila Prabhupada good reports from London yatra. It is all very much encouraging to me. Yes, I have received a letter from Mr. Dindayal, and I have replied it as follows: “My Dear Sriman Petambar Dindayal, Please accept my hearty greetings and blessings of Lord Krishna. I am very much encouraged to receive your invita- tion and I shall consider it a great opportu- nity when you actually arrange to receive me at your place. When I was in India I heard there that many Indians, specially Hindus, are residing in that part of the world, (South America), even for genera- tions, and they require spiritual guidance by their original Vedic culture. I believe you have read Bhagavad Gita very well and you may remember that in the 15th Chapter it is said that the Lord in His In- carnation as Krishna Daipayana Vyasa compiled the Vedas. The objective of the Vedas is to know Krishna and the Bha- gavad Gita is the essence of all Vedic in- structions. Lord Chaitanya made it still easier by introducing the Holy Name of Krishna and it has now become so easy that the cult of Vedic knowledge can be preached all over the world without any difficulty. As evidence of this statement, you may know from me that the Hare.Krishna movement is spreading like wild fire all over America, Canada, England and Ger- many. If you kindly join this movement and help this inundation overflood South America, it will be a great service to the Lord. I am very glad to receive your letter and I accept your invitation. Now you can arrange for it and in the meantime I am sending herewith some papers in this con- nection, which you may please go through.” I sent this letter on Nov. 6, but still I have not got any reply from him, so you can open correspondence with him. I know you are all trying your best there, and Krishna will help you. Even thereis no temple, still your service to Krishna is recognized, temple or no temple—we have to do our work. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-38 Los Angeles 22nd November, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Nov. 20, 1968, and previous to this letter I received another letter from you, dated Nov. 7, and instead of replying you di- rectly I have said the following words in a letters addressed to Brahmananda dated on Nov. 12, and Nov. 16, that “If he feels too much inconvenience at the care of his father, he may come back to you and help you in New York.” I was very much per- turbed when I received your letter of Nov. 7, 1968, and I prayed to Krishna that He may put His merciful glance upon you. So by Krishna’s Grace, I learned from Tamal Krishna that your father has already given you a nice apartment. So it is a sort of tug- of-war between your material father and spiritual father. And you are the rope in between. So in the first test I think I have come out successful. But this is a sport- ing. I have already told you that your fa- ther and mother are very good souls. They might be under the illusion of maya but still I must say that they are good souls, otherwise they could not have produced such nice children like Brahmananda and Gargamuni. We are trying to educate our disciples to produce Krishna Conscious children, but your father and mother, without being Krishna Conscious, have produced such nice Krishna Conscious boys, so I am very much obliged to them. The facilities which your father is giving NOVEMBER, 1968 607 you is going to his credit in Krishna Con- sciousness. The more he gives you fa- cility, the more his balance in Krishna Consciousness. He does not know how his Krishna Consciousness balance is in- creasing, but one day will come when you will see that actually your father is a good soul. So you try to win the love and affec- tion of your father some way or other. You are very intelligent boy and Krishna will also give you extra intelligence how to deal with your father. But you must treat your father as respectful as myself; even if you are sometimes ill-treated, you should tolerate. You should follow the example of Prahlad Maharaj. His father continually tortured him in so many ways, but he never protested against his father, but he never agreed with the opinion of his fa- ther. That should be your policy also, that you will never agree to your father’s de- moniac principles, but still you will try to serve him as faithfully as a nice obedient son. I am sure your father will be respon- sive and gradually our mission may be successful. I am always praying to Krishna to protect you because I know purposefully I have sent you in a fiery con- dition of maya. But our philosophy is dif- ferent. We do not hate maya because we know maya is also a faithful agent of Krishna, but her task is very thankless. Our mission is to dovetail everything in the service of Krishna because everything belongs to Krishna. Your father or any other businessman may think it improp- erly that the business belongs to him, and he is entitled to enjoy the profit, but we think everything belongs to Krishna, and Krishna is entitled to enjoy the property. That is the version of Bhagavad Gita. When the Lord says, I am the Supreme Enjoyer of all the results of sacrifices, austerities, fruitive actions, etc. People try to be a renouncer of this material world, but we do not see the material world in that angle of vision. We see everything is the product of Krishna’s energy and how everything can be dove- tailed for serving the purpose of Krishna. Please try to follow this principle and always remember the vivid example of Arjuna, how he utilized his special talent in the matter of warfare to serve Krishna so lovingly. He sacrificed all his good sentiments for his kinsmen, but he accepted the order of Krishna and thus he came out victorious in the fight. We are therefore neither renouncer nor enjoyer, we are simply servitor of Krishna. Please follow this principle and you will be never disturbed in any frightened condition of- fered by the maya. I am glad also to learn that your father has also increased your salary to $100.00 per week. Chant Hare Krishna regularly and see the pictures of Lord Chaitanya and Krishna and you will be happy. Thanking you once more, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-39 Los Angeles 22nd November, 1968 My dear Satswarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 20, 68 along with the Ist tape of this term. The 2nd tape is already sent to you and the 3rd tape is enclosed herewith please find. When typing, please mention the tape No. I hope to send you new tapes regularly & I hope you will do the needful. I understand that the 3rd Canto full and 4th Canto up to date are with you. Please keep them with you & let me know when they are ready. Most probably we shall start our own press very soon. And as soon as the press is started we shall imme- diately begin printing of Bhagawatam & other books. 608 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Please let me know if Devananda has any binding experience. Whether he can teach some boys here to bind nicely. Un- less I am certain that everything in all press department will be done by our- selves I am not inclined to start the press. I have duly received the copies of prospec- tus sent by you. Thanking you once more, Your ever well wisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-40 Los Angeles 23rd November, 1968 My Dear Nayana Bhiram, Please accept my blessings. Regarding your article in Back To Godhead about Ayurvedic Medicine, I do not think this is very worthwhile endeavor. You have shown nice ability for writing so it will be more appreciated if you continue to study Srimad Bhagavatam and Bhagavad Gita and express the same by your assimila- tion. We have enough Krishna Conscious- ness matters to discuss so there is no need of wasting time with such topics as Ayur- vedic Medicine. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-41 Los Angeles 23rd November, 1968 My Dear Devananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 18, andI have noted the contents with great satis- faction. It is very much encouraging to me. I can understand from your letter that you are working nicely for the spreading of Lord Chaitanya’s mission. Just keep this your attitude of sincere service and with- out a doubt Krishna will give you all intelli- gence to serve Him nicely. Krishna is not ungrateful but rather He sees all our efforts and appreciates our sincere service. Krishna is interested in how we engage our energies in His service. We are very small, very insignificant, so what can we do? Simply He wants to see that we are engag- ing our time and energy in His service. And you always remember to abide by the laws of Krishna as described by His bona- fide Representative, and the passage of go- ing back to Godhead is assured. This is Krishna’s Mercy. But pure devotees do not even want to go to Krishna’s abode. Simply our prayer should be, My dear Krishna, please remind me to always chant Your Holy Name, please do not put me into for- getfulness. You are sitting within me as Supersoul, so you can put me into forget- fulness or into remembering You. So please do not put me into forgetfulness. Please always remind me to chant, even You send me into the hell, it doesn’t matter, just so long as I can always chant Hare Krishna. Lord Chaitanya and Nityananda are singing one very nice song in which they are requesting everyone to please chant Hare Krishna, and come along with Them. So that is our request to everyone. Regarding the prayer from ‘“‘Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu”, yes it is very nice, and approved by me. Hope you are all well there, and offer my blessings to Satsvarupa and Jadurany, Rukmini, Saradia, and all others. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-42 Los Angeles 23rd November, 1968 My Dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your nice letter of Nov. 15, 1968, and I have noted the contents NOVEMBER, 1968 609 with great satisfaction. Your humble sen- timents are very nice exposed herein, and your sincere desire to serve the Lord is the real perfection of life. You have asked if I found it difficult to carry on devotional service when in my household life, and yes, I did. In my household life I was strictly following the regulative principles but my wife was re- luctant to assist me properly. Therefore I was obliged to give up their company. You try to take care of Lord Jagganath as far as possible after doing your household du- ties, but you should be strict only in com- pleting the 16 rounds of chanting. That will save you from all discrepancies. As a householder even there is some flaws in following the rules and regulations, it doesn’t matter. You should try your best and with Krishna’s help—Krishna will help you. If you keep your heart in that at- titude, that you want to become a pure and sincere devotee, you must be a sincere devotee. And Krishna will help you. You have to keep your heart in that way, that is your business. I hope you are well, with your child. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami [TEXT MISSING] and I thank you very much for it. You say that you met the wife of Ravi Shankar, so if you meet again you can speak to her in this way; Shri Ravi Shankar ji is a world fa- mous musician, and Lord Chaitanya wanted to preach His mission of love of God through music and dancing. People generally welcome dancing and music very much. So he being an authority in the art of dancing and music, why not distrib- ute this science of dance and music through the principles of Lord Chaitanya. Then a great benediction will be bestowed on the human society by utilizing the art of music and dance for spiritualization of the whole world. So if he cooperates with Swamiji then we can make a combined ef- fort for this great service to the humanity. That is our request. At the present moment, Ravi Shankar ji may be getting huge amount of remunera- tion in exchange for his nice musical art, but that will be finished with the end of this body. Many men come here and by their talents, earn huge amounts of money, but it remains here, and he goes alone with his works only to accept an- other different kind of body, forgetting ev- erything behind. But if he acquires some spiritual assets it goes with him, and even it is not perfect in this life, it begins again from that point in next life. So we wish that Shri Ravi Shankar ji may understand this spiritual technology, and utilize his talent for benefit of the human society. We are interested for the highest benefit of the human society. We are interested for the highest benediction of the human society, otherwise we do not expect anything from anyone in monetary consideration. Sim- ply that these influential men come along and chant with us. Regarding arati: There is no need to worry that you do not have sufficient time to do it many times daily, etc., simply do what you have got time for doing, that is sufficient. Our lives are devoted to Krishna’s service, and you are perform- ing kirtana so it is the same thing. So do it however you can schedule it. ACB 68-11-43 Los Angeles 23rd November, 1968 My Dear John Darsinos, Please accept my blessings. I have read your letter (undated) and am very pleased that you are appreciating this movement of Krishna Consciousness. Please con- tinue this attitude of appreciation for 610 Letters from Srila Prabhupada Krishna’s mercy and your life will be suc- cessful with no doubt. In answer to your question about the importance of initiation, it is to be under- stood that initiation means that power is coming from the Supreme by the bonafide disciplic succession. This is required. Of course, for anyone to hear the message of Srimad Bhagwatam will produce a favor- able result but formally one should re- ceive this knowledge from the disciplic succession. For example, Arjun and Krishna were friends but still Arjuna sub- mitted himself formally as Krishna’s dis- ciple. This is essential. We should take example from these great Personalities. Arjuna was hearing Krishna speaking Bhagavad Gita but still he submitted as Krishna’s disciple. Now I submit unto You, please teach me.” So this is the pro- cess. I hope this will clear up your ques- tion sufficiently. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-44 Los Angeles 23rd November, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated November 19, and have noted the contents. I am very much pleased by your renewed and seri- ous efforts to help me in my service to my Guru Maharaj. Please continue in this at- titude and Krishna will save you, you need have no doubt. Regarding your question as to obtain a house or a storefront for holding kirtans, I think that you may use your own good dis- cretion as to which will be most effective in popularizing Krishna Consciousness in Ohio. Now that you will be coming to visit me soon, we shall discuss your plans of marriage. I think this is a good idea and you will require a wife who is an expert typist to be your secretary. Such a wife with good typing ability will be a great as- set in your writing activities. So when you arrive we can discuss this further. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Pleasetry to finish up 1st and 2nd Can- tos of Bhagavatam as soon as possible. 68-11-45 Los Angeles 24th November, 1968 My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of November 20th and it has given me great satisfaction to see how the London center is progress- ing nicely. All six of my disciples which I have sent to London are very sincere ser- vants of Krishna and you simply remem- ber to continue in this way and your activities will continue to bring nice results. When we remember always to have unflincing faith in the spiritual mas- ter and the message of Krishna then auto- matically we become free from the attacking Maya. In the material concept also everyone is trying to avoid the on- slaughts of Maya but with no success. To the sincere devotee, however, this ocean of maya is easily crossed by the cool breeze of Krishna’s Grace. So this is our business, to submit to Krishna’s desire to have us back with Him in the eternal sky of Krishna Loka. And when we are deter- mined in this way we become transcen- dental to the so-called hardships of place and circumstance. I am pleased to learn that you are sing- ing the Chintomoni prayers of Brahma Samhita. This Brahma Samhita contains the highest of all spiritual knowledge. In lecturing too if we sing a verse from NOVEMBER, 1968 611 Brahma Samhita and then nicely explain the meaning it will be very much appreci- ated. Just as Krishna is the All-Attractive principle so, similarly, these Krishna ka- thas of the Brahma Samhita are All- Attractive and will gain favorable attention from listeners. Also your description of progress in kirtan performance with Gurudas playing sitar and Mukunda playing khols is en- couraging. Practically we see that as we sincerely try to improve our chanting for the pleasure of Krishna, Krishna recipro- cates and we feel our greatest pleasure which is devotional service to the Lord. So, you may continue with this method, it is very nice and approved by me. I have enclosed the letter to Mr. S. S. Dhawan which you have requested. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. The names you have suggested as floating members, are welcome. 68-11-46 Los Angeles 24th November, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessing to yourself and your good wife, Himavati. I have read with pleasure your letter of November 18th and have noted the contents carefully. You describe that you are seeing more and more how Krishna is your friend and this is very nice. The more one under- stands that Krishna is my friend and my duty is to serve my Dearest Friend, the more one can know that his is advancing in Krishna Consciousness. Regarding your question about Super- soul, we take it from Bhagavad Gita phi- losophy that the distinction between Supersoul and individual jiva soul must always be there. The Supersoul never will fall under the clutches of this illusory maya and the jiva soul has this tendency. So there is distinction, yet, the two, Su- persoul and jiva soul are also the same as much as the sunlight and the Sun are qualitatively the same. So this is Krishna’s message that we are simultane- ously one and different from Krishna. When the jiva soul accepts the dictates of the Supreme consciousness Supersoul, his activities will no longer be for the sake of personal sense gratification but will be only for the purpose of gratifying the senses of Krishna. This attitude of service is the perfection of the living entity. Please continue to try for the printing of Back To Godhead French addition. We work so that men of all languages and cul- tures may join us in chanting Hare Krishna and for this we need so many lit- eratures in so many different languages. So please try for this. As you are His sin- cere servitor Krishna will provide you with the intelligence to do this nicely. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-47 Los Angeles 24th November, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. Just yes- terday I received your tape. I could not however play it immediately because the tape recorder that Govinda Dasi has wasn’t big enough to hold the tape. So this morning I got Dayananda’s larger tape recorder and heard with great enjoy- ment your speech and kirtan. Myself, Purushottam, Kartikeya and Govinda Dasi joined with your kirtan clapping and we enjoyed transcendental bliss. Thank you very much for your endeavor and all blessings of Thakur Bhaktivinode and Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati will be be- stowed upon you because you are trying to 612 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda push on their life long mission. Thakur Bhaktivinoda, in the year of my birth, first attempted to introduce these mission- ary activities in McGill University and the same attempt is being renovated by your combined efforts. I am sure that Lord Chaitanya and His eternal Associates, Bhaktivinode Thakur and Bhaktisid- dhanta Sarisvati, will be pleased to bestow their mercy upon you. Please try to con- tinue this attempt and I am sure you shall be successful. I shall keep this tape for a few days more and then return it to you. I hope you have received my previous let- ters. Your ever well wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-48 Los Angeles 25th November, 1968 My Dear Krishna das, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Nov. 14, 1968, and I have noted the contents with great satisfaction. It is all very much en- couraging to me. Your humble attitude of service is noteworthy, and this will help you more and more in advancing your Krishna Consciousness. I am so much pleased to note the ad- dress of our new ISKCON RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE in Hamburg, Ger- many. Krishna is giving you all facilities for spreading Krishna Consciousness there—good storefront, and good job, and plenty of financial support—so it is very much encouraging to me! It sounds on good street, if train runs down that street, so many people must come there. With such good location it will soon be very successful. And you have very good en- thusiasm that you shall make it the most attractive storefront in all Germany, or in the whole universe. Yes, do it nicely. So far Shyamsundar is concerned, if they come, I have no objection. You ar- range with them by correspondence, and if they agree to come that is very nice. I think they will agree. So you can make correspondence with Malati and Shyam- sundar. I understand you are going to apply for legal recognition of Krishna Conscious- ness as a bonafide religious organization, and try to obtaina tax franchise also. They have done this in London also, using the same preamble has been registered as we have done in New York, so you can do the same in Hamburg. And I am sending two separate letters, one to the Mayor of Ham- burg, and the other to the chief of the po- lice at Hamburg, as drafted by Shivananda Brahmachary. I am very glad to learn that you are endeavoring to make Hamburg as our central place for European activities. Al- though London was formerly very impor- tant place in Europe, I think at present it is notso. So if wetry to centralize our Euro- pean activities in Hamburg, it will be very nice. I am asking also Achyutananda and Jayagovinda to come and join with you im- mediately, and if Shyamsundar also comes, you can all learn German lan- guagevery nicely with the help of Shyam- sundar and Uttama Sloka, and preach vigorously this Krishna Consciousness movement in Germany. Our Bhagavad Gita as it is, is now published, and I have got copies of it here. It will sell very nicely, and it is very attractive. So you can ask Brahmananda to send you copies. If you want mridanga and harmonium, you can immediately order directly from Mssrs. Dwarkin and Son, and refer to our society’s name, and they will allow 20% discount. Their address is as follows: Dwarkin & Son Private Ltd.; 8/2 Espla- nade East; Calcutta-1, INDIA. I think you can order Dulcetina, model number 30501. This is very nice, and I am using this kind personally. And it is very handy NOVEMBER, 1968 613 also. So far Uttama Sloka’s draft situation, by the time needed I shall give him certifi- cate for being minister of religion student, as I have given to Kartikeya. And I think when a boy is under religious ministerial order he can be saved. Please inquire about it, and if required, I shall immedi- ately issue him certificate. I am recog- nized ordained minister of religion, and our society is religious society incorpo- rated, and we are teaching our students to preach religion and theological concept of life. So, Krishna is so kind that He is giving you all financial facilities also to start the Hamburg center as perfectly as possible. And I shall await your invitation with great interest. And I hope this meets you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, 68-11-49 Los Angeles 26th November, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of Nov. 22 and have noted the contents. I think that the troubles you describe in your letter are due simply to misunder- standing. Do not worry because next week Garry shall return to you and Krishna will certainly help you in your endeavors. Jivananda shall remain with the Samkir- tan Party and similarly Harsharani shall stay with him in Los Angeles. We must always remember that the leader in charge of a temple must learn to successfully deal with the other persons there. No one is working as a paid servant so if the dealings are not friendly everyone will decide to leave. The leader of the temple must try always to be sober and tolerant and at the same time manage ev- erything nicely. Please continue to try and cultivate this talent and I know you will be given all intelligence to do this. Regarding the prayers of Narotamma- das Thakur, you will be pleased to know that we have taped these prayers and this tape shall be reproduced by Danesh for all of the centers along with others and also to be sent out is the transliteration and trans- lation of these prayers. So I think you may wait for these. It is nice that you are trying for recipes of Krishna Prasadam to be printed in local newspapers and if you can also have them run some of our articles from Back To Godhead this also shall be very beneficial. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-50 Los Angeles 26th November, 1968 My Dear Hrishakesha, Please accept my blessings. I have read with pleasure your recent letter (undated). From it I can understand that you are advancing very nicely in Krishna Con- sciousness. You are correct in your esti- mation that all activities, even so-called frustrations, become a great joy when is working for Krishna. This is the clue to successful work which is revealed in Bha- gavad Gita, that we should concern our- selves only with giving everything to Krishna and all the frustrations of sinful reactions will be no more. The reason men are suffering and frustrated is be- cause they are accepting the sinful reac- tions from their sinful activities, so in Krishna Consciousness we are free from all such botheration because we have do- nated all of our fruits and reactions to the service of the Lord. When we keep our as- sociation with Krishna every activity is proper and liberating but if we should dis- sociate ourselves from the Lord’s Mercy 614 Letters from Srila Prabhupada then like a hand which is severed from the body we become ugly and useless. Please continue your efforts to improve New Vrindaban along with your god-brothers there and no doubt Krishna will help you to make further progress in perfecting your life in Krishna Consciousness. Regarding the Christmas Day meal with your family, I do not think you should partake of the food prepared by non- devotees. Better you should prepare your own foodstuffs and offer to Krishna and then, if you like, you may offer these rem- nants to Lord Jesus. I think that Lord Jesus will also appreciate this. Of course you may sit down with your family and take fruits and milk which they offer but rather than taking the foods which they have pre- pared, you may prepare and offer your own prasadam for Lord Krishna, and then offer the same to Lord Jesus. So faras your studying the art of black- smith goes, I do not see the necessity. Better is that you should develop your car- pentry skills as this will prove a more valuable skill in the development of New Vrindaban. Hope this letter finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-51 Los Angeles 26th November, 1968 My Dear Chandrabali, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of November 23 and have noted the contents carefully. Your plan of translating the three vol- umes of Srimad Bhagwatam is a great en- couragement to me. We require that men of all tongues may know of the great mes- sage of Krishna and your rendering our books in the Spanish language will be a tremendous service to our Krishna Con- scious movement. It is most encouraging news that you have begun this activity and by all means continue with it. If you will complete the first three volumes by June, 1969, as you have proposed, it shall be a most welcome asset for propagation of our society. Also, your carving and paint- ing Lord Jagganath deities is very nice, we shall require such deities in all of our tem- ples. Regarding your opening a center in Mexico, I think that if some other brahmacharinies are available to go along with you that there will be no objection to this idea. However, where shall these brahmacharinies come from? For the time being, I think you may concentrate upon improving the temple already established in San Francisco as you have described that this temple is already short-handed. So kindly continue to work sincerely in developing your Krishna Consciousness and please keep me informed as to the progress of your translating work. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-52 Los Angeles 26th November, 1968 My Dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of November 20th and have noted the contents carefully. Also I have seen the newsletter of November 20th regarding the progress of our centers in New Vrindaban and Columbus. Both these centers are progressing nicely and I have no doubt that under your able direc- tion the New Vrindaban will become a most prosperous endeavor in spreading Krishna Consciousness and attracting the NOVEMBER, 1968 615 attention of many new people. There is no need for discouragement because you are working sincerely and according to Krishna’s plan your activities prove to be of great use in propagating our move- ment. So far as your life insurance policy is concerned, I do not think that you need sign this over to your father. The father’s duty is to maintain the son so there is no necessity of you giving up this money to your father. You are serving the greatest Father and therefore all other fathers are automatically served. This money will be of greater profit if you keep it to further develope New Vrindaban. Regarding the six year old cow, it is too old and I do not advise you to purchase. Please thank Randy for the gift which he has sent along with your letter. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-53 Los Angeles 27th November, 1968 My Dear Gopal Krishna, Please accept my blessings. great satisfaction your letter of November 20th along with your very kind gift of one pull-over sweater. This gift is very much appreci- ated by me as the weather in Los Angeles is little bit cold lately and I had need of just such a sweater. Also please thank Sa- tyabhama for her good taste of selection. I am pleased to learn how you are spending your time in meditation with Lord Krishna and I request that continue to chant Hare Krishna so that Krishna will surely bestow all blessings upon yourself. Once again I thank you for your good sentiments and thoughtfulness. I hope that you are well and shall continue to ad- vance in your service to Lord Krishna. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please try to improve the condition of the temple in cooperation with the mem- bers there. ACB 68-11-54 Los Angeles 28th November, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of Nov. 28, 1968, and I have noted the contents carefully. I thank you for your kind sentiments for me, it is very nice. So far Janardan is concerned, I am anxiously awaiting to hear something from him. I consider him as one of the pil- lars of our society, so please request him to write to me and to inform me of the ac- tive interest he is taking in our society. He is very sincere thoughtful member and plus he is good speaker, so with these qualifications he can render most valuable service to Krishna Consciousness. So please ask him to. be kind upon me and help in the venture of translating our vari- ous books and magazines. When Janar- dan goes to France, if he is willing to take charge of printing Back To Godhead French edition in France, rather then Canada, it will be very nice. Also in France he may open one center and many of my students may come to help him. In Europe I require 3 centers, one in Lon- don, one in Paris, and one in Hamburg. In New York, Advaita and Uddhava are preparing to start press to print our books and magazines, so in this endeavor they will require more manpower. I think that Vaikunthanath is suitable in this connec- tion so he may make arrangements to come to New York to work in bookbind- ery establishment and also take classes in 616 Letters from Srila Prabhupada bookbinding to be paid for by Advaita and Uddhava. The money he earns for his la- bor shall be utilized for our new press pro- gram. Regarding the “Inside Iskcon” jour- nal, if it is not very troublesome the idea is all right. Since you describe a necessity for warmer shoes, leather may be utilized and their is no harm. So far as it goes in Los Angeles, every- thing is going very nicely with the Samkirtan Party and soon we are expected to have a new temple location. Hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-55 Los Angeles 30th November, 1968 My Dear Hayagriva, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 24, 1968, and I have noted the contents care- fully. I am very much pleased to hear of your good reports of OSU Yoga Society— it is very much encouraging to me. I have also appreciated your tape, and I shall re- turn it to you in due time. I have only one. Regarding the press you are thinking to purchase, yes it appears to be a very good opportunity. It may be that in the future we shall also purchase one offset press, but in any case, this is a good opportunity for buying this sort of press, so I think you should purchase it. So far your marriage idea, I think you should marry, and all questions concern- ing this we shall discuss when you come here to visit me on the 13th of December. It will be very nice that you shall visit here for your vacation, and I shall be very happy to talk with you again. Regarding the boys, I shall ask their mother, Sheelavati, to open correspon- dence with you, and you write to her also. She is presently here in Los Angeles, along with one of her sons, Birbhadra das Brahmachary, and her other son, Girish das, is in San Francisco under care of An- niruddha das Brahmachary. Thank you once more for your letter, and I shall be looking forward to your vis- its after December 13th, and shall be very happy to see you. Please keep me in- formed of your activities there, and I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-11-56 Los Angeles 30th November, 1968 My Dear Himavati, Please acceptmy blessings. Yesterday my deities were dressed with the clothing you made and it appears so nice. I do not know whether you have time to make similarly a few other sets. It will be very nice. I know that you are the most expert in making dresses than all others so therefore I request you that you may make at least two or three sets of dresses as you have already made. I hope that everything is well with you. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of the check for $321 Canadian dollars and I thank you very much for it. Just now I am going to send credit to Dai Nippon in Japan for $6,000 so I require some money for the book fund. You are thinking of accepting a job but you are already in the job of Krishna, so for the maintenance of Krishna’s temple you can contemplate as Krishna desires. But I will suggest, why do you not start NOVEMBER, 1968 617 the prasad program? It was in our con- templation for a longtime and you and your wife are expert cooks. There’s am- ple space in our temple. Why not orga- nize the prasad program. That will be both spiritual propaganda and monetary gain also. Besides that I’ll suggest instead of ac- cepting job outside, why not try to sell our books? Bhagavad Gita is already pub- lished. If you want to sell, immediately ask Brahmananda to send you as many copies as you can sell and there also is a source of income. Next month we are getting Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. Dyal Nitai knows how to sell books, so both Dyal Nitai, yourself and the others, if you attempt to sell our books that will be the most glorious job. Plus if you can distribute prasad [PAGE MISSING] 68-11-57 Los Angeles 30th November, 1968 My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your letter of Nov. 7, 1968, and I have duly noted the contents with great satisfaction. It is very good news that so many students are attending your kirtan programs in Columbus, and I think this will develop into a very prosper- ous center very soon. So far your question whether you should stay at New Vrindaban, or help Hayagriva at Columbus, the best thing is to consult with Hayagriva, and work jointly. And do whatever needs to be done. That is the best program. I think by Krishna’s Grace everything is improving nicely with the New Vrinda- ban idea, and please continue to make your program in this way. I hope you are all well there, and con- vey my blessings to Ranadhir, Hrishikesh, and Pradyumna and any others; there also I think Mahavishnu das and Ramadeviare also, and please convey my blessings to them along with their little son, Haridas. I very much appreciated also the nice cartoon-advertisements for your OSU Yoga society, and I think Ranadhir must have done them so nicely. Please thank him and encourage him to do much more such nice artistic work. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please offer my blessings to Dr. Hen- derson. He is our old friend and let us join together to spread K.C. all over the world. ACB DECEMBER 68-12-1 Los Angeles lst December, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings to yourself and to your good wife Yumuna Devi. With the greatest satisfaction I have read your letter of November 25th and just yesterday I received our published pictures of Prahlad Maharaj. I thank you very much for your sincere endeavors and I am sure that Krishna will bestow upon you all blessings for your notable service atti- tude. This is the key to progressing in Krishna Consciousness that one learns to serve Krishna and the Spiritual Master in humble attitude and this attitude in you shall certainly bring you further and fur- ther in perfecting your life. In humble submission the devottee finds such sweet transcendental pleasure that no more he is interested in the nonsense material world and no more he is affected by the influ- ence of the inferior energy, the maya. Your idea of arranging meeting with all of the influential people who are inter- ested in your activities is excellent sugges- tion and may prove very good results. So certainly Krishna is guiding you in your thoughts and activities. This is very nice, and all very encouraging to me. As you may have heard, our Bhagavad Gita As It Is is now published and can be ordered from the New York temple by writing to Brahmananda. Please try to popularize this book throughout England as much as possible. Because if these books are read, there is no doubt that many sincere souls shall be attracted and will join you in your work for Krishna. So please try for selling these books, it shall be considered as the greatest service. You have requested of me to write one letter for opening the “‘board meeting” so when the meeting is arranged definately I will send the same. So far as the dictio- naries go, the Niruktih is the better of the two. I think that you may send me few more of the published Prahlad Maharaj prints so that other temples may be in- spired and also may try to republish them in some American papers. Once again I thank you for your nice labors and hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-2 Los Angeles lst December, 1968 My Dear Jayapataka, Please accept my blessings. With much satisfaction I have read your letter of November 24, 1968 and I thank you very much for this. From it I can understand clearly that you are making nice progress in your devotional service attitude. Your sincere and humble outlook is very nice. I am always praying to Lord Krishna to be- stow His Causeless Mercy upon you. So far the phenomenon which you have questioned me about, I think that it is all Krishna’s Grace because you are sin- cerely working for spreading His Cause. You needn't disclose this phenomenon to everyone, you have disclosed to me and that is sufficient. But you may know that it is a good sign. Continue to work sincerely and you shall be blessed in this life, there 620 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda is no doubt. Regarding the money which you shall soon attain, I think that the book fund may use it very well as we have so many new expenditures due to our new books, Bha- gavad Gita As It Is (already published) and Teachings of Lord Chaitanya (to be published next month). So if you can send this money to me it will be very nice. Also, when these books arrive to your Montreal temple, it will be great service if you can help your god-brothers in arrang- ing for widespread sales of these books. We are writing so many literatures and this is very good, but also we must make arrangement for distribution to the public at large. So jointly you may prepare for doing the needful in this matter. Once again, I thank you for your en- couraging letter and I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-3 Los Angeles 1st December, 1968 My Dear Harer Nama, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated November 22, 1968 and I thank you for it. It is very nice that youare preparing these puppet stories of Srimad Bhagavatam. Such program will not fail to have an uplifting effect upon the viewers as well as the players. So do this nicely, it shall be very good. I also understand from your letter that you and Tosan working outside to support the Sant Fe temple. This is allright and you should continue with this. Our program is that no matter what our engagement may be, we shall perform it in Krishna Conscious- ness, chanting Hare Krishna and thinking about something of Krishna, His Name, His Form, His Beauty, etc. This will bring the highest benediction of our life and by executing the same we shall elevate not only ourself but similarly we will elevate those with which we come into association. So far as explaining my letter to Kris, I have listed the ingredients which may use for preparing prasadam but these various varieties of foodstuffs may be prepared ei- ther in the given recipes or if you like you may invent nice new formulas for offer- ing. The important thing is that your prep- arations be palatable for Lord Krishna and that the ingredients be within the groups of ingredients already listed. You have asked me about sassafras and yes, it may be offered. Mushrooms are generally not offered, but there is no prohibition, there is no harm in them. I hope that this has answered your questions. Please keep me informed as to the progress of your temple. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-4 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I have just today received your most recent letter of November 30th, 1968 and have noted the contents with pleasure. We have regis- tered the Hawaii address given by you. I am pleased with the progress that you, Mahapurusha, and Maurari are mak- ‘ing in establishing our Hawaii temple and also I have noted that you are making ar- rangements for accomodating me in Janu- ary. You are making arrangements for me but also I think you should make arrange- ments. for calling your wife. The husband and wife must live togehter for helping one another in developing Krishna Con- sciousness. So I think that you may write to your wife and request that she join you in your temple at Hawaii. DECEMBER, 1968 621 I thank you so much for your regular reports of progess you are making. I hope that this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Your drawings on Prahlad Maharaj are being published in London papers regularly. It has nice. I hope you have received the copy. ACB 68-12-5 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My Dear Jeffrey Hickey, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of No- vember 28, in which vou request to be ini- tiated as my student. I have noted by your letter that already you are progressing nicely by associating with devotees and chanting 22 rounds daily so there is no more any need to wait. You may send to my Los Angles address your chanting beads so that you may receive initiation. I hope that this finds you along with Rupanuga, his good wife, Bhurijana, and Mr. Eric and all the others in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please order Brahmananda to send you books for selling. I have Dia Nippon $6000.00 dollars—T.L.C. now we must sell them to get money for the next publi- cation Nectar of Devotion (400 pages). 68-12-6 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My dear Blanche, Please accept my blessings. I am so glad to receive your letter appreciating Krishna Consciousness movement. As stated by you, it is truly a happy move- ment. Lord Chaitanya said that the ocean of Krishna Consciousness increases daily and it is never experienced in the case of mundane ocean. In other words, nobody is static in Krishna Consciousness and ev- eryone becomes a dynamic force for spreading the movement. It is understood that you have been in the Temple for not a very long time and still you have appreci- ated very much the spiritual movement. Try to read our books and you will ad- vance more and more. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-7 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My Dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived today your letter of Nov. 30th, 1968 and have noted the contents. I can understand from your letter that you are little concerned with remaining in New Vrindaban while the others are away, but in this connection you must re- member that factually, you are not alone because you are always being protected by Lord Krishna. So I think that it is best that you stick to New Vrindaban, chant Hare Krishna, worship the deities and Krishna will send you help in men and money. So do not be agitated. If no one will come then you may live alone with Krishna and I am sure that Krishna will give you all facilities for progress in the very near future. Of course, you are al- ways welcome to come see me, but while there is no one else to remain and to tend the deities, I think it best if you shall stay. So far as your question about arrang- ing time, our first business is to regularly complete our chanting 16 rounds each day. Then we must offer to the deities mangalartik in the morning, and the other paraphernalia and activities shall be exe- cuted as time permits. If there is no time then we must disregard. 622 Letters from Srila Prabhupada When George Henderson shall be- coming there try to keep him there to associate with you. Try discussing and convincing him of the principles of Krishna Consciousness. He is a good soul, I know, and if he can help you in New Vrindaban, it will be very nice. If he comes to see me in Los Angeles, I shall talk with him. In the beginning, he was taking Krishna Consciousness seriously but because he left our association he be- came slackened, so if again he may asso- ciate with us it will be so nice. Hope this letter finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-8 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of November 29th, 1968 and have noted the contents. I am en- couraged to read how Advaita, Uddhava and Subal are all doing nice work in spreading our Krishna Consciousness movement. This is very encouraging to me and please thank them along with your other press men assistents for the nice work and accomplishment they are doing. The answer to your question about the marginal energy is that the jiva soul is al- ways called marginal energy whether he is in the spiritual world or in the material world. There are instances where mar- ginal energy jiva souls have fallen from the spiritual world, just like Jai and Bejai. So the potency to fall under the influence of the lower energy is always there. And thus the individual jiva soul is called as Krishna’s marginal energy. So far as the letterhead is concerned, yes, you may go ahead with this, but first you may send me a drawing of what you are planning to make. Hope this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: You may send each month one copy of Back To Godhead to the following ad- dress; Asoke Kumar Datta 97, R.B. Ghosh Road Khoshbagan, P.O. Burdwan, West Bengal, INDIA P.S. I wish to publish continually Nectar of Devotion in B. T.G. Please let me know about it. Did Hayagriva send some article about N. V.? If there is any of N. V. it may be published. ACB 68-12-9 Los Angeles 2nd December, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of November 30th, 1968 and have noted the contents care- fully. I have noted with pleasure that you have spoken before a group of the Catho- lic Church. You should know that as far as our Krishna Consciousness movement goes, we are better Christians than those who proclaim that they are following the orders of Christ. This is because we are following and generally they are not. Just like the 10 Commandments order that thou should not kill. But these so-called Christians are performing so much killing by meateating and wars. So how are they good Christians? You may ask them this in your meetings and try to convince them of their position. Also, we do not commit adultery, we do not take the Name of God in vain, in fact we practice that the Name of God is just as good as God. So accord- ing to the 10 Commandments, nobody is DECEMBER, 1968 623 Christian, but in our own way we are fol- lowing the principles ofthe 10 Command- ments strictly. So I think you may explain to them how this Krishna Consciousness movement will help them advance to be better Christians. I have also noted that you write to say that you are having trouble with sex agita- tion. Why you do not marry then? Either you become grihastra or what other choice is there? Either you train yourself and pray to Krishna, begging that you may remain brahmachary or else get yourself married. On the Disappearance Day of my Guru Maharaj, you may hold meeting to discuss His activities and offer respect to His Memory. Practically, this movement is His because it is under His order that I have come to your country. So continue to chant your full 16 rounds daily, even there is effort and I am sure that you will be helped by Krishna through the difficulties of this inferior en- ergy, maya. I hope this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Gary is yesterday and his name is Gajendra das—ACB 68-12-10 Los Angeles 3rd December, 1968 My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I was so glad to receive your letter which was writ- ten by hand (undated). I had just been thinking of and wondering why you do not write to me. Although I am overcrowded by so many letters from my beloved spiri- tual sons and daughters, still if I don’t re- ceive a letter from one, I become anxious for it. So you and Murari should more of- ten write to me. That will very much engladden me to my heart. I. know that you are a sincere Vaishnave, and every one of your god- brothers praises you nice Vaishnava quali- ties. Chant Hare Krishna and always live peacefully. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-11 Los Angeles 3rd December, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. Thank you for your letter of December 25, 1968. I am awaiting your pictures of the house which might be used for prasadam pro- gram. So far as the press utilizing this place it is not possible because the press is to be set up either in New Vrindaban or in New York. Here in Los Angeles we have a very nice place. The rent is very high, but if we can maintain this establishment it will surely have great future prospects. I am glad to know that you now have a nice apartment. Live comfortable there and try to improve the temple conditions to your best capacity. If there will be an opportu- nity to purchase the new house you have found, try your best for this. I thank you so much for having nicely appreciated the Bhagavad Gita As It Is. This book should be read by all of my stu- dents at least one chapter per day, and in kirtan class it should be discussed sloka after sloka. Practically, we have tried to explain in this book all of the basic princi- ples of Krishna Consciousness. If you can simply cram Bhagavad Gita then you will surely become a very good preacher. Next January there will be an examina- tion on this Bhagavad Gita. Papers will be sent by me to all centers, and those secur- ing the minimum passing grade will be given the title as Bhakti-shastri. Similarly, another examination will be held on Lord 624 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda Chaitanya’s Appearance Day in February, 1970 and it will be upon Srimad Bhaga- watam and Bhagavad Gita. Those passing will get the title of Bhaktibaibhava. An- other examination will be held sometimes in 1971 on the four books, Bhagavad Gita, Srimad Bhagawatam, Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, and Nectar of Devotion. One who will pass this examination will be awarded with the title of Bhaktive- danta. I want that all of my spiritual sons and daughters will inherit this title of Bhaktivedanta, so that the family tran- scendental diploma will continue through the generations. Those possessing the title of Bhaktivedanta will be allowed to initi- ate disciples. Maybe by 1975, all of my disciples will be allowed to initiate and in- crease the numbers of the generations. That is my program. So we should not simply publish these books for reading by outsiders, but our students must be well versed in all of our books so that we can be prepared to defeat all opposing parties in the matter of self-realization. Please keep me informed as to the progress of the prasadam program. I hope that this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Offer my blessings for Haimavati my beloved daughter. Smt. 68-12-12 Los Angeles 4th December, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your most recent letter (undated) and have noted the contents. I am so happy that by next week you will move into our new temple site and that you and Kishna das shall both be working so there will be no difficulty in financing. It is all Krishna’s Grace. So far as Achytananda and Jaya- govinda, yes one of you may write to in- vite them to your temple in Hamburg. In this connection I have already dispatched one letter to them and I am still awaiting their reply. Regarding your first question, is it of- fensive to think of Krishna’s Pastimes while chanting, I think you should know that it is not offensive, but rather it is re- quired. One must try for the point when he simply hears Krishna and immediately all of Krishna, His Pastimes, His Form, His Quality, are in his thoughts. So to al- ways be immersed in thoughts of Krishna this is our process. When we are full in Krishna then where there can be any chance for maya in us? So this is our duty to remember Krishna’s Pastimes. One who cannot remember Krishna, let him always hear Hare Krishna and then when he has perfected this art, then always he will remember Krishna, His Activities, His Qualities, etc. The answer to your second question is that when one becomes accostumed to in- offensive chanting, then his fruit is that he is promoted to the stage of pure Love of Godhead, or prema. This prema is the perfectional stage of consciousness and the most blissful by very far. So far as singing of the Christian hymns, if others sing this we have no ob- jection, it is very nice, but in these hymns they have no definate idea of what is God. We are directly approaching and praying to Krishna for the highest benediction of eternal devotional service so we do not re- quire to repeat the Christian hymns. Our point is to always follow the example of the acharyas and this will bring us to the perfectional stages with no doubt. For the Christian hymn you describe, the example may be given of where one person is ap- preciating that water is very nice and an- other is tasting water. So when we taste water the appreciation automatically is there and when we have taste for chanting, DECEMBER, 1968 625 automatically the appreciation is there for God. I hope that you are well along with Krishna Das and Uttama Sloka. Please keep me informed of progress with our Hamburg center. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: You may write to Jayagovinda at Indraprastha Goudiya Math Dina Ka Talab, Malkaganj Delhi-6 India Also Achyutananda at Radha Damodar temple Seba-Kunja, P.O. Vrindaban Dist: Mathura India. 68-12-13 Los Angeles Sth December, 1968 London My Dear Annapurna, After long time, please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated Oct. 30, which has reached me after travelling over the whole world. It was addressed to Montreal, sent to Hollywood Blvd., then to Orange Drive and finally it has come to me. So it has taken so long time and i am very glad to learn that you are now in your father’s country and feeling very nice. Mukunda and all the other devotees are trying their best to start a temple in London and a tem- ple is already there by Krishna’s Grace. The landlord has offered them the place free of rent until the house is disposed of so I think that they should try to influence the landlord to donate the building for our great cause. At least he should let us con- duct our business there for the benefit of all of mankind. It is undersood that the landlord belongs to the hippie group and he has purchased the house for hippie propaganda but now wishes to sell the house and property. If some concessional rate is offered then we can also try to pur- chase the property. So consult with your godbrothers and Gurudas is the best man to tackle with this landlord and appeal to him to donate this house free for this great cause of spreading Krishna Conscious- ness. So again I thank you for your nice letter and the sentiments expressed therein and please keep me informed as to your well-being. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Mukunda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of Nov. 30, and have again noted with encouragement the progress of your activites in London. For your sincere efforts in spreading this movement in so far away country as Lon- don, I am certain that Lord Chaitanya Ma- haprabhu is most pleased and will surely bless you for your nice work. Regarding my meeting with the Archbishop of Can- terbury, please arrange for this. We will talk with the Archbishop on a religious basis and we may also invite many re- spectable elites of the city to participate in this important meeting. Actually, we are not preaching a par- ticular type of faith. We are teaching the post graduate studies of all religions: we are teaching people how to love God and who is the man that will deny this princi- ple? This basic principle we can talk with any religious head and any sincere reli- gious man will appreciate it. We simply want people to become God conscious and that will bring forth real peace in the world. So if the Christian heads of the dif- ferent churches will cooperate with us, we can render very valuable service to the 626 Letters from Srila Prabhupada whole of human society. I have received one nice letter from Malati Devi and please convey my bless- ings to the others as well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. Just on the point of posting this letter I have received one package from you containing the cer- tificate form and letter. It is very nice. I am replying your letter separately. Hope this will find you in good health. Your ever wellwisher A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-14 Los Angeles Sth December, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated Nov. 30, 1968 and I thank you for the report of progress at your temple. Now it is understood that you are tak- ing charge of Girish and I think that you may teach him very nicely the principles of Bhagavad Gita As It Is. Then, when this is learned you may go on to Srimad Bha- gavatam. In this way we wish to train all of the boys of his age who come to our tem- ples. If you can take charge of this teach- ing, we can immediately open a teaching department where such instructions can go on. Hayagriva has agreed to take charge of such a teaching department and when he comes to see me soon, I will talk with him in detail. We want such teaching department to teach and raise children to the standard of Krishna Consciousness. You can make trial with Girish and let me know how it is progressing. Yesterday, we have contracted one nice temple site on La Cienega Boulevard. It is previously a chapel but now I wish to or- ganize it to be one nice temple for Krishna Consciouness. Let us see how Krishna will help us. But there is good possibility to develop it into a nice temple. The rent is $500 each month but they have agreed to $400 for the first year. So far as the lady psychiatrist making tests with our children, you should know that our children are fireproof and water- proof due to Krishna Consciousness so there is no harm for them. Let them test if they wish, we shall come out successful. I hope this meets you in good health. Please also convey my blessings to the other devotees there. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-15 Los Angeles Sth December, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I was happy to read your recent letter (undated) and to see how you are working hard and now you are sending your finished paint- ings to our various centers to be appreci- ated. You will be pleased to know that our London center has managed to have one local newspaper devote a two page spread to a comic book feature of the story of Prahlad Maharaj as depicted by Goursun- dar and Govinda Dasi. This is very nice propaganda so as much as possible we should try for overflooding publications with similar of our stories. We have so many artists now in Boston and also New York so if someone can work on this idea it will be very nice. In answer to your question, let me say that Lord Vishnu is served by Sesa who is also an incarnation of Vishnu. His busi- ness is to supply all bodily comforts to Lord Vishnu. Sesa, or Anant, serves Vishnu as His Mattress and protects Him from all atmospheric disturbances by DECEMBER, 1968 627 making His heads like a canopy or um- brella. In this way, He supplies umbrella, bedding, slippers, and everything else personally required by Lord Vishnu. This information we get from scriptural sources. So keeping pace with this scrip- tural injunction, you may paint nicely as Krishna gives you instruction. I hope this finds all of you well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Inform your husband that I am seri- ously compiling one book ‘‘Nectar of De- votion” about 400 pages. Therefore I am little slack in sending tapes of S.B. ACB 68-12-16 Los Angeles 8th December, 1968 My Dear Kirtananda, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived today your letter dated 4, Decem- ber 1968 and have carefully read the contents. You have asked whether you may use charcoals to use for fuel during the winter and since this is the simplest thing to use in your present situation certainly it is all right. In all such questions as this you need only use your good common sense and depend upon Krishna as always to guide you nicely. So far as the government making repairs on the roads, If they are willing to do it this is very good. With nice roads we can invite many people to New Vrindaban as well as facilitate our own ac- tivities there so such proposal is welcome. For construction of ponds I dont know if you will be able to use them for bathing in the cold winter so it is better if you can construct a well if this can be more used in the winter. So if you are pressed now for time, the ponds may be constructed in the spring. I have noted from your letter that you have available a Lincoln automobile which you are able to donate to us in Los Angeles. At the present we are requiring just such a car so I think you may make arrangements to have it brought here. This is all Krishna’s Grace so as you are able please make arrangements for this. So far as your utiliz ing machinery at New Vrin- daban, if such machinery is helpful than you may take advantage of them. We are not enemies of machines. If they can be used for Krishna’s service then we wel- come them. You will be glad to know that we have now signed lease for a new temple for the Los Angeles center. It is very large, fine chapel and now there is program being or- ganized here to set everything up very nicely and invite many new people to par- ticipate in our programs. Krishna has been very kind to grant us such facilities and now there are many efforts to be made to use it nicely. Please convey my blessings to Hrishi- kesa and I hope this letter finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-17 Los Angeles 9th December, 1968 My Dear Janaki, Please accept my blessings. With the greatest satisfaction I have just now read over your nicely composed and hand- written letter of December 12, 1968 and I thank you so much for the kind sentiments you have expressed therein. I had also been thinking of you because you were thinking of me, but as your letter has ar- rived first it is for me to answer it. Actu- ally, I always think of you as my naughty 628 Letters from Srila Prabhupada daughter and from the start of this move- ment, you and your very good husband have always shown to be very sincere and important members of our society. So I know that both of your services are most sincere and I will always appreciate this. So far as you writing you are lonely I think that there is no need for this. Such sentiments of wishing for me to be there is nice but a girl is meant for living with her husband and not her father, such girl is very lucky who can live with her husband. And you have specially nice, beautiful husband and not only that but he is devo- tee also so you are very fortunate. So con- tinue to faithfully help your husband in executing the mission of his life to spread Krishna Consciousness and surely Krishna will bless you and grant you all happiness. This is my blessing upon the both of you. I think also that it is good sign that Krishna is delaying to give us a nice Lon- don temple because when it finally will come it may be the most ideal temple for our purposes. So none of you be discour- aged but go on with your engagements and everything will come automatically very nice. I have noted that you describe yourself as being just a “lump of ignorance”. Ac- tually the devotee should always think like that. That the devotee should feel himself so lowly is the teaching of Lord Chai- tanya. Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu also represented Himself as a very foolish dis- ciple even though He proved Himself as the greatest scholar and was actually Krishna Himself. So one who feels hum- ble and meek has the door for the King- dom of God opened for him or her. So I thank you again for your nice letter and please continue to inform me of your well- being. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-18 Los Angeles 9th December, 1968 My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of December 4, 1968 and I have noted the contents carefully. I have seen how you have planned the board meeting to be held and it is all very nice. I understand that the MacMillan Company is distributing our book, Bhagavad Gita As It Is, in London also, so if you can also retail this book to friends at the meeting it may prove very helpful in deepening their interest in this science of Krishna Con- sciousness. If we can present the people with our literature and with the process of kirtan then certainly many will be at- tracted and will come join us in our activi- ties. So please convey my blessings to Shyamsundar and Malati to whom I am not enclosing a letter herein, and I hope that you are all very well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Please let me know when you want the open letter or if possible you can send me the form of the letter which I shall edit & send you the fair copy. ACB The photos that you have sent are duly re- ceived. Just yesterday I have received an- other letter from Pitamber Dindayal of Gyana. 68-12-19 Los Angeles 9th December, 1968 My Dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. I thank you so much for letter of November 30, 1968 andthe glorious sentiments you have expressed therein. I am so glad to read that you are doing very well and keeping DECEMBER, 1968 629 always engaged. This is the key to elevat- ing in Krishna Consciousness that we al- ways keep our thoughts, our words and our actions centered around our life and soul, this being Krishna. If we remember to practice this process then automatically all distresses and botherations will be- come nil. So I am very encouraged that all of you are progressing in learning this technique. So far as the certificates are con- cerned, they are very beautiful and nicely done. But I have noticed that there is one small spelling mistake which you may be able to correct. ‘‘Srimati’? you have spelled as ‘‘Srimate’’. Srimate is used for addressing someone, but Srimati is the ti- tle which is appropriate on the certificate. So if you can change this on all of the cer- tificates it will be better. Regarding your question about arti, no there is no special prayers to be said just in the morning. Also you have asked about the compiler of Shree Brahma Samhita and the four-headed brahma of this uni- verse is the compiler. So thank you again for your letter and please convey my very hearty blessings to Malati also who has written one very nice letter which I have seen last week. I hope that this finds you all in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have received the newspaper cut- tings for Prahlad 68-12-20 Los Angeles 9th December, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of December 6, 1968 arriving last night and I have duely noted the contents. In your letter you have made it clear that you are finding some diffi- culty with sex desire and have asked guid- ance from me to instruct you how to handle this problem of the material body. First of all I think you should know that such problems are not very unnatural be- cause in the body the conditioned soul is very prone to failure. But also we must re- member that such failure will not discour- age us fromexecuting the most important mission of our life, to become fully in Krishna Consciousness. So whatever falldown has been, you should be regret- ful about it, but it is not so serious nor is it a permanent disqualification. But you must try to check yourself from such arti- ficial things and take full shelter of the Lo- tus Feet of Krishna. I think that for such checking marriage is the only solution. It is understood that everyone has some nasty habits but by sticking to Krishna Consciousness, chanting our required rounds loudly, and tending the deities, these items will surely save you. So al- ways be seriously engaged in serving Krishna and pray to Krishna to help you with your frailties. But I think that mar- riage is the solution with no other alterna- tive. If you are married you can continue to practice all the items of worship and with more peace of mind, so such solu- tion, along with redoubled efforts to serve nicely and be very pleasing unto Krishna, these things will help you. I hav e always known you as very good, sincere boy so with utmost seriousness you must con- sider these points and act upon them. I shall hope to be hearing again from you soon on this matter. Hoping you are always well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. It is my open advice for everyone that one who is disturbed by sex, must take the responsiblity of married life 630 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-12-21 Los Angeles 10th December, 1968 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of 7, December 1968 and have duely noted the contents. Regarding my plans for January I can not as yet give a definate answer because I have recently been invited to visit the South American country, Guyana at the beginning of the new year. So this too is undefinate and I will have to see whether they provide for our visit or whether will not before I can decide if I may go to Hawaii in January. I am sending the letter out today asking for confirmation of this invitation and just as soon as I hear word, I will let you now so you may make your ar- rangements. I have included a copy of my letter to Mr. Dindayal who is the person who has extended our invitation. So I am pleased that you are all work- ing very hard to help us in this great mis- sion. Please convey my blessings to Mahapurusha, Maurari, Lilavati and to their child Subhadra. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-22 Los Angeles 10th December, 1968 Chagan Govind 74 Arodene Road London S.W.2. Dear Mr. Govind, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of yourvery kind let- ter of December 3, 1968 along with three omkar buttons. I thank you very much for these. In the Bhagavad Gita, this omkar is mentioned as being the sound representa- tion of Krishna, the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Similarly the Hare Krishna Mantra is also the sound representation of Krishna. So, practically we do not make any distinction between the omkar and Hare Krishna but the spiritual path is to follow the footprints of the path of the great acharyas. Lord Chaitanya encour- aged the Sankirtan Movement, or the chanting of Hare Krishna, is the means for God realization for this age and it is in pursuance of the revealed scriptures. Actually this movement is now becom- ing very popular in the Western countries. Our followers in the West are neither Hin- dus nor belonging to any principle sect following the Vedas but, by Krishna’s Grace, they are accepting this very nicely. Some of them are very advanced as you might have seen from the characteristics of our devotees in London. I was very pleased to read how these students were very well received by your organizations there. Please extend my thanks to all concerned for cooperating with my students in London. Thanking you once more for your interest and I hope to hear again from you soon. Yours very sincerely, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-23 Los Angeles 11th December, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 6, 1968. Also I have received the duplicate copy of the letter of credit which you have returned. So far as dealing with Mr. Kallman, I think that you should have no more busi- ness dealings with this man. At every turn DECEMBER, 1968 631 he tried to cheat us so we must consider him as very dangerous cheater and avoid any future business dealing. We shall con- tinue to be polite with him but this is far as it is to go because his only thought for us is how toexploit. Youmust remember this in any future contact with him. He now owes me $15,000 for the record album royalty that I recorded and yet he claims that our society owes him so much money for in- sence and records. This is all a bluff be- cause unless he pays me how can he insist we owe to him. So it is best that we have no more schemes with this Mr. Kallman. Not even should we buy records from him. We shall rather make our own records. I have seen the recent dummy you have sent of Teachings of Lord Caitanya and it is very much approved by me. I think that all of the devotees should purchase one copy of all of our books for study and fu- ture preaching activities. I have also heard from Purushottam that you have now obtained one beautiful temple on second avenue that can very nicely be compred with a palace. So this is all Krishna’s Grace. You have tried so hard to find a new temple there but Krishna did not approve so there was no temple. But now that Krishna wills it with simply a flick of the eye a temple has come tous, better even than.we were hoping for. So this is what is meant that Krishna is Controller and we are controlled. When we simply remember to accept the control of Krishna and not to act independently then all fortune is automatically present. We have received from Yamuna Devi in London some completed certificates so please send a list of all initiated devotees in New York so we can send out. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Enclosure-1 ———— 68-12-24 Los Angeles 11th December, 1968 My Dear Krishna Das, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your very nice let- ter dated November 5, 1968 and I thank you very much for the kind sentiments that you have expressed therein. Because you are very nice, sincere boy so Krishna is now giving you very good facilities by which you can serve Him and at the same time perfect yourself for going back to Godhead. So if you try to continue in the humble attitude you have now, with little time you will have wonderful success in further developing your Krishna Con- sciousness. Actually the Krishna Con- sciousness is already there, but it is now covered up so we must wipe away the dirt of maya from our consciousness so the pure essence of consciousness, or love for Krishna, may once again shine forth. I am always praying to Krishna to help you more and more so if you remember to al- ways increase your efforts to make prog- ress in spreading this movement, then Krishna will certainly save you, rest as- sured. I have noted with much pleasure that you are planning to mimeograph our es- says inthe German language. This is good news and please do it nicely. These litera- tures must be made available to all peoples so they may take interest in Krishna and seek to learn more. This will attract many people to begin chanting and learning this philosophy. So try in this way, it is very important endeavor. In the United States we have now published Bhagavad Gita As It Is and by next month we should receive the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya. So if you can also present our literatures in the German language it will be very successful. You will be glad to learn that we are having very good success in improving our temples here because Los Angeles has 632 Letters from Srila Prabhupada acquired an excellent, large chapel suit- able for living quarters and kirtan and New York has also acquired a grand three story building for a five year lease and this building is being described to us as being a palace. So with our new books this is all very encouraging and I am always thank- ful to all of my students for their sincere endeavors in this mission. So please convey my blessings to Ut- tama Sloka and Shivananda. I have not heard from Uttama Sloka so if he will have time, please ask him to write. I hope this letter finds all of you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Address of Jayagovinda Indraprastha Goudiya Math Dinaka Talab, Malkaganj Delhi-7, India. Achyutananda’s Address, Radha Damodara Temple, Sebakunja, P.O. Vrindaban, Dist: Mathura, India. 68-12-25 11th December, 1968 My Dear Nandakishore, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your nice letter of December 5, 1968 and thank you very much for this. From your letter I can un- derstand that you are anxious to become householder and this is very good. We re- quire so many householders to set exam- ple to others how in Krishna Conscious- ness we can live peacefully and sanely, even in married life. Also, we require so many Krishna Conscious children to show how nicely and beautifully a child can de- velop when he is following the principles of God Consciousness. So your decision is very good, but at the moment we have many girls and either too young or they are engaged or they are too old. There are a few nice girls who are available, specifically Tulsi Devi and Anna Radha Devi but both of them also have little babies and Tulsi Devi is, I think, a little older than you are. So if you like we may ask these girls if they are just now desirous of marrying. Or else you may wait for an eligible girl who I am not thinking of, or who will show up soon, so as soon as she shows up we shall make ar- rangements in this regard. Also, we are planning to open a school for teaching our Krishna Conscious chil- dren and I understand Satyabhama Devi has some qualificationsas a teacher. This school may be set up either in New VRindaban or Los Angeles so please ask her to tell me about her teaching qualifica- tions and she thinks of this idea. Please convey my blessings to all devo- tees there, exspecially Paramananda, Dyal Nitai and Satyabhama whom I have not heard from in some time. I hope this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-26 Los Angeles 12th December, 1968 Vancouver My Dear Ananda Das, Please accept my blessings. I have heard from Upendra that you have had some success in arranging for a temple in Vancouver. This is most encouraging news, but why you are silent? Please in- form me of your progress there as I am al- ways anxious to hear from you. You will be very glad to know that our Montreal center has mimeographed a very fine edition in French language of Back To Godhead. I think that in Vancou- ver there may be good opportunity to cir- culate this publication so you may write to DECEMBER, 1968 633 Hansadutta in Montreal to make arrange- ments for ordering copies. I hope that this finds you very well and that you will notify me immediately of what is happening with you. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Are you getting B.T.G. from New York? We have now Bhagavad Gita As It Is published by Macmillan Company. Copies can be had from New York. 68-12-27 Los Angeles 12th December, 1968 My Dear Joy Fulcher, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated December 6, 1968 and have considered the contents. I know that now there is a shortage of hands in our Seattle center, so why not re- main there to help out Upendra and the others. Also your services to attract brahmacharinies will be very valuable in Seattle. I know that you are very nice art- ist even without the guidance of Jadurani so for the time being you should remain in Seattle and paint independently. You should work to paint very quickly and very beautifully because we have need of such talented artists. When Jadurany first began to paint she was slow but now that she has practiced she has become very ex- pert and quick. So this practice is what will improve all areas of your already very nice art work. [TEXT MISSING] ger size, that is very good idea. You have got some poetic sense also, and all these talents, the artistic sense and poetic sense, can be engaged in the service of Krishna. All devotees are more or less poets. Out of 26 qualifications of a perfect devotee, one is poetic sense. So we can write so many poetries in praise of the Lord, or about His pastimes. Similarly we can draw so many nice pictures about His different activi- ties, and such engagements will give us chance to elevate ourself to the perfec- tional platform of spiritual understanding. By Grace of KrishnaI am keeping well nowadays, but Govinda dasi is not keep- ing very well. As she has to go to Nan- darani’s house and again come, so it is a little troublesome so she is a little sick. But by Grace of Krishna everything will be allright. Please offer my blessings to all the devotees there, especially Harsharani, who I understand is cooking very nicely for the love feast. She is a nice decorator of the Deity and a nice cook also for preparing Krishna Prasadam. Hope you are all well, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-28 Los Angeles 12th December, 1968 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letters of December 4th and December 7th, 1968 and also I have received the beautiful first edition of Back To Godhead in the French language. This is a great joy to me to see such publi- cation being printed so nicely and my heartfelt thanks are due to Janardan, Dayal Nitai, Vaikunthanath, yourself and your wife, along with all the others who have helped to make this publication come so expertly. Such French edition was my great ambition and now that you have achieved success, I request you all to im- prove it continually so the French speak- ing people will have opportunity to take advantage of our Krishna Consciousness movement. So now there is plenty engagement for everyone at the temple and if you can se- cure funds simply by selling our litera- ture, by prasadam program and by some 634 Letters from Srila Prabhupada sewing labor, then it will not be necessary to take karmijobs outside. So Krishna has given you very good facilities to be en- gaged and make profit at the same time for the temple so even though you may live poorly, if you can support yourselves sim- ply with these activities it will be very good. You have expressed some new ideas to improve B.T.G. of the English Back To Godhead, but I think that there is no need to interrupt their way of thinking. Now you have chance for your own edition so do it nicely and according to your own ideas. You are artist, so you have facilities to make a very nice edition to sell to the French public. Since in Montreal 75% of the populace are speaking French I think you have very good chance to popularize and improve this magazine. So far as my book fund is concerned, you have said that you do not wish to take profit from this fund so as you like you may take the commission as Brahm- ananda has proposed and then you can re- turn the profit to me in Los Angeles. That will keep the accounts clear. But some- how or other see that our books are sold very quickly. My book fund is now drained by $7,000 and I should fill up this gap very soon. I require to keep this fund because it is helpful in acheiving the im- migration papers as well as credit for such items as temples and books from MacMil- lan and Dai Nippon. This account should therefore always be kept for an emer- gency. Also, I next wish to publish a new book entitled Necter of Devotion. So if you can help with these funds it will be very appreciated. You have asked about singing the prayers of Narattom Thakur and yes, they are very much approved in any language. Please convey my thanks to Janardan for the fine work he has done on the magazine and also request him to write to me about his future plans of going to France. He is a most sincere, important member of our society and I think that in France he may be able to do much to popularize our movement and to circulate our new French magazine. l Kindly convey my blessings to all members there and I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Improve the Prasadam program as ni- clely as possible. 68-12-29 Los Angeles 12th December, 1968 My Dear Himavati, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of December 6, 1968 and I thank you very much for it. Just as you are thinking of me so often, similarly, you should know that I am often thinking of you also. So if you can remem- ber to always remember Krishna and the instructions of your Spiritual Master than surely this will bring the highest benedic- tion to yourself and to those with whom you come into contact. To the extent we are thinking of Krishna, to that extent Maya has no influence. But as much as we are desiring to forget Krishna and trying to enjoy for ourself, so to that extent we must suffer the pains of Maya. So our remedy for material life is very simple, simply to chant for Krishna, to dance for Krishna, to work, prepare nice foods for Krishna and then cent per cent we become fully free from all other influences. Please always remember this secret and show by example to all others. Please convey my thanks to Satyabama for her nice work in sewing the clothes for my deities. These deities will require sev- eral more sets of such excellent dresses so Satyabama or youself may supply as you are able. Your sewing proposal is very nice and DECEMBER, 1968 635 such idea is given by the Grace of Krishna. Try to utilize your profits to maintain the temple with your ‘husband and the others. With much pleasure I have seen the French edition of Back To God- head and I thank you all for this endeavor. With such engagements as this magazine, we can live to propagate Krishna Con- sciousness and that is the success of our lives. Actually, our living conditions can be minimized as far as possible. Simply we should live for propagating Krishna Consciousness. That is our life. In conclusion to your letter you have asked as to where is the ocean of love? And I think that you may know that it is in your heart. So please convey my blessings to all others there and I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C, Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-30 Los Angeles 12th December, 1968 My Dear Saradia, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your recent letter and I have noted the contents with pleasure. Your kind thoughts which you expressed are very nice and encouraging to me. Also you have asked some intelligent questions and I am answering them here. You have asked how Krishna is with the spirit soul in the spiritual world and the answer is that Krishna is the heart of the spirit soul, or spiritual body, So Krishna is never apart from us. Either He remains in the heart of the material body, or He remains in the heart of the spiritual body. This is Krishna’s Causeless Mercy to all of His beloved children, or living en- tities. To answer your second question, you should know that Arjuna and Kunti Devi are not in Krishna Loka. They are eter- nally associated with Krishna only in the material world. Just like Krishna is always in the spiritual world, so similarly He is always in the material world and His Pas- times are going on there also. Inthe mate- rial world, Krishna also has eternal associates, such as Arjuna and Kunti Devi. There is a difference between the body and soul of Arjuna and Kunti Devi. But although Arjuna is with Krishna in in- numerable different material universes at one time, still there is only one spirit soul who is Arjuna. This spirit soul expands into many different bodies and thus you can understand that there are also incarna- tions of devotees as well as incarnations of Krishna. This is the power of the spirit soul, that it is unlimited. Such conception cannot be understood while one is still in the conditioned state. Regarding your third question, both incidences are correct. I hope these shall answer your questions. Please convey my blessings to Satsvarupa, Jadurany, Devananda, Rukmini and all others. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-31 Los Angeles 13th December, 1968 My Dear Girish, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of November 30, 1968 and have noted the contents with pleasure. So far as your question about the Krishna stories, you will be glad to know that soon we will begin working on a book called, “KRISHNA” which will have sto- ries and illustrations of all of Krishna’s Pastimes. These stories come from the 10th canto of Srimad Bhagawatam. You have also written that you wish to obtain some pictures of Krishna in his childhood 636 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and such pictures can be obtained by writ- ing to Brahmananda in New York about prices and which pictures he has avail- able. I think that now that you are going to public school that you must study hard es- pecially keeping in mind to learn how to read and write and do arithmatic. Perhaps after the summer we will have our own school in New Vrindaban and you will be a student there. But in the meantime, try to acquire these skills. They shall be a great asset to you in reading our literature and so many other services. So now that you are in school, you may make the best of it and become expert in these abilities. Thank you again for your nice letter and I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-32 Los Angeles 13th December, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of December 9, 1968 and have noted the contents. Regarding the material for canvas pro- tection I think that there is a tar which is made from coals* which may be used. Or else if this is not available or cannot be used then you may use any material which will do the job nicely. I have just received a copy of Back To Godhead number 21 and please convey my appreciation to Satsvarupa for his ex- cellent article of Lord Ramachandra. Such articles give enjoyment and spiritual benefit to all readers so he should do more of such writing as he is able. As soon as possible, I will require some artist who will paint pictures from the Bhagwatam as I give hints on what to paint. But the artist must be very quick. Two or three pictures must be done every week. These pictures will be used for my new book, “KRISHNA” , which I will be- gin as soon as I get the assitance of a quick painter. I am sure that you could do this but you are already engaged with so much work. There is one girl in Seattle, Joy Ful- cher, who is nice artist. Would you like her to go to you to do this work under your guidance? I think that you know this girl. If you think this idea is allright, you can call her at Boston. As usual, I shall send “KRISHNA” tapes to your husband with hints for you about the pictures so you and your husband can send me the complete materials for the final printing. Please consider these suggestions and do the needful. Kindly convey my blessings to Devananda, Saradia and Rukmini. I hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *coal-tar 68-12-33 Los Angeles 13th December, 1968 My Dear Jagadisha, Please accept my blessings. Enclosed please find your prayers which I have chanted one round upon and initiated you with. Your spiritual name is Jagadisha das Brahmachary. Jagadish means Lord Jaga- nath, the Lord of the Universe. So please continue to be very sincere about developing your Krishna Con- sciousness and Krishna will give you all facilities to return with Him to His Spiri- tual Abode. Take instructions from your god-brother Rupanuga, chant your six- teen rounds daily, follow all regulations strictly, and you will have all blessings from the disciplic succession to advance nicely. So now you have this all important opportunity so I request you to take full advantage and perfect yourself in Krishna DECEMBER, 1968 637 Consciousness. This is my request to all of you. This will be great servcice not only to yourself, but also to all the living entities with whom we come into contact. Please convey my blessings to all oth- ers. I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have not heard anything from Rupanuga since a long time. ACB 68-12-34 Los Angeles 13th December, 1968 My Dear Paramananda, Please accept my blessings. I was so pleased to receive your letter of December 8, 1968 and I have noted the contents with great pleasure. Such attitude of humble- ness which you have so nicely expressed along with your very good service attitude is very beautiful and will take you far to advance more and more. I am happy that you and your very good wife, Satyabama, are finding such satisfaction in executing your Krishna Consciousness activities and such plea- sure will only increase more and more as you continue to advance further. This is my blessing upon you both that your lives may become happy and successful. So my one request to you is that you keep your- self always engaged in Krishna’s service sincerely and that you help your wife in this matter also. Now there is enough en- gagement with popularizing our books and magazines so you will have enough work to utilize all of your time in this im- portant endeavor. You are strong, intelli- gent boy so there is so much of such service that you can render and be a great asset to this Krishna Consciousness movement. In the future there may be facilities to start schooling in our New Vrindaban and when this is begun I think that Satyabama and yourself may consider to go there to teach and assist with the work going on there. So as Krishna desires we will see what happens. Please convey my blessings to all oth- ers and I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-35 Los Angeles 14th December, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter of Dec. 4, 1968, and I have noted the contents very carefully. I have looked at the two small pictures you sent, and I approve of both of them. This is called Rajasthan style, and it is very nice. These two pictures, if nicely painted, will look very good in our tem- ples. Also, there is one very nice photo- graph of my Guru Maharaj which I want you to paint, and I will send it to you there. It was found by Gurudas in London and he has sent me two copies of it. It was taken just after His acceptance of sanyas, and with the Srimad Bhagavatam opened be- fore Him. So I shall send it. So far Los Angeles temple is concerned, we have just now leased a very big church, with large meeting hall and various compartments, so here we shall need many very large paintings for making the hall attractive. If it is possible, you can paint very large ones, as large or even larger than the one you sent to Montreal of the Gopies. Re- garding the gesso sizing of the canvases: If they last for 20 years that is fine and plenty long enough. The other process sounds toocomplicated, and this plastic sounds to be very nice. Deity worship is for such persons who have ample time. The thing is, Deity wor- ship is compulsory, and you can increase 638 Letters from Srila Prabhupada if you have got time to do so. But Mongol aratrik is essential (morning arati), and Sandharatrik (evening aratri) is essential, and offering of Prasadam to Deity is es- sential. And nice dress, decorating the Deity with sweet-smelling flowers, color- ful and very opulent dresses, jewels, in- cense, etc, to make Them very brilliant and attractive, that is real Deity worship. I hope you are all well there, and happy in Krishna Consciousness, Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-36 Los Angeles 14th December, 1968 London My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your nice letter of Dec. 9, 1968, and I thank you very much for it. It is very much encouraging to me to hear of so many activities of performing kirtan there. Kirtan is the universal principle, therefore, if you chant Hare Krishna of- fenslessly, that is to say, avoiding the 10 kinds of offenses, the vibration is sure to act. And anywhere this vibration is made, it will be liked because it is done on the spiritual platform. And on the spiritual platform, there will be certainly agree- ment. So long one is on the material plat- form, there is no agreement. So our movement is directly taken to the spiritual platform. So do it nicely, offenselessly, and it will be successful anywhere. It is just like that in the milk, there is butter, but if you want concentrated but- ter, you have to churn milk and take out the butter. Similarly, Krishna is spread everywhere by different potencies but when there is question of love, we have to be in direct touch with Krishna. That is personalism. The heat of the impersonal- ist sunshine and the heat in the sunglobe is far different. One who is in personal touch with Krishna, their spiritual bliss is in- comparable. The spiritual bliss derived from impersonalist realization is just like a drop of water in the presence of the At- lantic Ocean. That is the difference be- tween personalism and impersonalism. Your question, “How did Praka- sananda Saraswati see or think that Lord Chaitanya was the Lord Narayan Himself when he only realized Brahman?’’—by personal audience of Lord Chaitanya they could realize Him as Narayan because they were sincere in searching out the Ab- solute Truth. As it is confirmed in the Bhagavad Gita, that an impersonalist, if he is sincere in searching out the Absolute Truth, then ultimately such impersonalist can reach to the point of the Personality of Godhead. So Prakasananda Saraswati was submissive to Lord Chaitanya, be- cause he begged Lord Chaitanya to oc- cupy superior seat, while Chaitanya Mahaprabhu out of His extreme humble- ness, was sitting in a place where they were washing their feet. A Vaishnava is al- ways humble, and if a person does not misuse this humbleness of a Vaishnava, he gets a chance to be elevated. But if some- body misunderstands the humbleness of a Vaishnava then he is doomed. Just like in the Chaitanya Charitamrita, the author Kaviraj Goswami says that he is lower than the stool, and Sanatan Goswami says that he is born and associated with most degraded persons. If such humbleness of Vaishnavas are taken verbatim, then we are misled. Prakasananda Saraswati ap- preciated the greatness of Lord Chaitanya, even though He was humble, and there- fore Lord Chaitanya’s Mercy was be- stowed upon him, and thus he could accept Him as He is. The Mayavadi philosophers even they do not follow Shankaracharya because their philosophy itself is offensive. Shankaracharya has accepted Krishna as DECEMBER, 1968 639 the Supreme Personality of Godhead, but the Mayavadis take Krishna as a great per- sonality only. That is their misfortune. On account of successive offensive attacks on the Supreme Person. So therefore the sub- sequent result of Mayavadi philosophy, on account of their rigidity to this misleading philosophy, they cannot. make progress. Besides that, as it is confirmed in the Bha- gavad Gita, the Personal Feature of Krishna is very difficult to be understood by the non-devotee class of men. So the Mayavadi philosophers are, as a class, non-devotees. Naturally they are misled almost in all occasions. But some of them were extraordinary to come out and ac- cept Krishna’s personality. This is ex- plained by Arjuna also in the Bhagavad Gita. We are sending you a tape record also, of a short paper entitled ‘“‘Manifestos of Krishna Consciousness”? which I have written. Yes you negotiate for the building there. And if you have got a temple then you can write for Deities. The installation will take place when I go there. But if you order Deities, order Them not less than 20” high for Radha and Krishna. I have also written them about this. The thing is, what for you will contact this Vinode Vani dasi?* What kind of help do you want from them? They are already not cooperating. The history of this Vani dasi is that she is an old lady, and has a house and has hung a sign, Goudiya Math, but that is all. So make clear to me exactly what sort of help you want to get from her, and I will advise you duly. In the meantime, you can one day make a cour- tesy visit to her, and see what is the situa- tion with her, if her place can be used for our purposes. But I do not think that place is very nice or suitable for our purpose, as it is outside the city I think, so far I know, and we want a place inside the city. Still if you let me know what kind of help you want from them, then I can advise you what to do. I hope you are all well there, and exe- cuting Krishna Consciousness happily also. Please convey my blessings to your good wife Yamuna, and also to Shyamsun- dar and Malati, and Janaki and Mukunda. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami *Did she accept your invitation? did she come to dine with you? If not how you can expect any co-operation with them? Etad nirvidyamananam ichhatam akutobhayam yoginam api nirnitam Harer namanukirtanam 68-12-37 Los Angeles 17th December, 1968 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated December 12, 1968 and I have noted the contents. I am glad that you have also re- ceived my previously sent letters. I have also handed over your letter for Govinda Dasi. I am very sorry to learn that this girl Madhavi Lata has gone there and created some disturbance. If she is still there, ask her to live separately and she may come only during kirtan performances. This girl appears ver disturbing and every place she goes there seems to be some trouble. Please try to keep her away care- fully and ask her to come back here be- cause immediately there is no chance of my going to Hawaii. Just today I have got one press conference in the temple and af- ter this there will be more propaganda work. There is scheduled another press conference by January 22, 1969, so at least for one month more there is no chance of my going to Hawaii. If I leave abruptly now the program here will be 640 Letters from Srila Prabhupada disturbed. Better is I wait until we finish the engagement in Los Angles. In the meantime I will try to pick up some devo- tees to join you. I am glad to not that an ashram will attract interested students from all over the world. Please try to or- ganize this ashram in cooperation with Maurari. I am asking Purushottam and others to search out some brahmacharies to go there to assist you. I am also still more encouraged that you propose to build a temple and secure some land in the main island of Hawaii. I think that my presence in Hawaii will be nice when you are still more in sound foot- ing there. So you arrange your program in that way. Better would be that you and my other dear disciples try to manage all centers as far as possible independently. For me, in my old age, moving constantly does not suit my health. The Los Angeles climate is not unsuitable for me so I am thinking of making my head-quarters here because it is very important city also. But as soon as there is the need of my presence some place I must go where I am required. On this principle please prepare to work. Re- garding Govinda Dasi, she can immedi- ately start for Hawaii if you send her the passage fare. Please convey my blessings to the oth- ers with you and I hope this finds you all in good health. 68-12-38 Los Angeles 17th December, 1968 My Dear Ananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated December 13, 1968 along with the Hare Krishna Mantra card. I am glad that you have already started a center in small scale and please try to improve it as far as possible. There is no question of doing anything very hastily so please try to make steady, even if slow, progress. So far as the Indian population is concerned, I think that the Sikh are use- less for our purpose. They do not under- stand our philosohy nor are they inter- ested in spiritual advancement of life. We have no such discretion that we have to pick our members from a particular group of people. Everyone is Krishna’s part and parcel and wherever we find it convenient we will pick up a person to be trained in Krishna Consciousness who is interested in going back to Home, back to Godhead. I think that the Canadian people espe- cially will be suitable for your member- ship. Try for this as far as possible. For the new souls who have already joined you, try to encourage them as far as possible. Thank you again for your letter and for the important service you are rendering to Lord Chaitanya’s movement. I hope this finds you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-39 Los Angeles 17th December, 1968 My Dear Leelasuka, Please accept my blessings. With great pleasure I have read your letter of Decem- ber 9, 1968. I thank you for your kind sen- timents expressed and your nice attitude of humbleness and devotion. It is very good that you and the other girls are preaching in school to your class mates. This will bring the greatest benefit not only to them but also it will help you to progress more and more in your devo- tional service. Krishna Consciousness is so nice that when one makes some gain it does not detract from anothers’ gain, but, rather, it means that there is gain for the whole world. When one is chanting or DECEMBER, 1968 641 speaking of Krishna or working for Krishna then so many living entities hear him or help him in some way and thus find benefit also. This is why the devotee is dear to all creatures and to Krishna. So al- ways be engaged as youare doing and with your all good qualities Krishna will surely bestow his full mercy, rest assured. So all of the girls you have mentioned, such as Ekayani, Kanchanbala and Indira are simi- larly very good souls and I am always praying that Krishna will help you all more and more. I was pleased to note that you are happy with your plans for marriage to Ud- dhava. He is a very good boy and please always serve him nicely as a good wife. You are fortunate to obtain such a nice husband and he is also fortunate to obtain a nice wife. So all in all it is very nice ar- rangement and certainly it is Krishna’s special mercy upon you both. Please convey my blessings to all other of my students in the New York branch and I hope this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-40 Los Angeles 17th December, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I have just received your letter dated December 14, 1968 and I have noted the contents with some surprise. You have written that you will soon be leaving Hamburg and this news has caused me some distress. I have always been glad that you were in Germany to take care of the temple and you have writ- ten that Krishna Das is also disturbed at this sudden turn. From your letter it is un- clear as to where you are going, to Mon- treal, to New Vrindaban, to work for your mother, it is all unclear as to your plan. I think that you must stay in our Hamburg center until you write to me why you are leaving Germany, and where you are ex- pecting to stay. It could be that you are ex- periencing some difficulty in Germany, in which case please inform me of the same so we may solve the problem. You men- tioned that leaving is the best thing for your devotional service, but you should know that without the instructions of the Spiritual Master that there is no question of devotional service. So I think that you must remain in the Hamburg center until I advise you further. I am anxiously await- ing to hear your reply. I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-41 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated December 5, 1968 and I have. noted the contents. I have also heard from Purushottam who has spoken to Brahm- ananda on the telephone yesterday that your father has made it clear that he will not confide in you or trust you to make advancement very easily in his busi- ness.. Also I have heard that you have de- cided to leave back to the New York temple. This idea is alright under the cir- cumstances and I think that your father will one day come to regret that he has not cooperated with your plans. Purushottam has also heard that you are considering to open a store of Indian imports in the new temple on 61 2nd Ave. This idea is approved by me and please try to do it nicely to help support and make improvements in the new large temple. If this temple can be made very attractive then surely it will attract many people to 642 Letters from Srila Prabhupada join us in kirtan and to take interest in Krishna Consciousness. Also you may re- sume your job as circulation manager, we have a much improved Back To Godhead since you have last done this job in New York and I know that you may do very good service in this regard. If you can help your god-brothers in selling ads also, it will be very nice. So I think that Krishna has seen that your services can be better utilized in the new temple and all the other work that is going on and He has seen fit to give you clue to leave your father’s business and come back to the temple. So because you are sincerely in Krishna Consciousness there is no loss. Actually, for the devotee who is working for Krishna there is only gain of spiritual advancement. The fruits of our work is always given to Krishna and so Krishna accepts the responsibility of what these fruits shall be. So this is our principle of work and I request you to al- ways remember this. I have also received one nice letter from you several weeks ago and just now I am taking the opportunity to thank you for this. I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-42 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Janardan, Please accept my blessings. I beg to thank you for your letter of December 11, 1968. I have already acknowledged re- ceipt of the French Back To Godhead and I have sent my hearty thanks for you all. May Krishna bless you to advance this at- tempt far and wide. It is encouraging to me that you are go- ing to France and will acquaint yourself with theistic philosopher’s on a Personal God. Actually when one comes to realize the Personality of Godhead, only then is his theistic knowledge complete. We have discussed this point very elaborately in the Bhagavad Gita As It Is and your high intelligence will help you to present this idea befor the learned scholars of France who are already inclined toward a Person- ality of Godhead. Please impress them logically and scientifically and it will be a great achievement for our mission. France is considered to have the most cul- tured people in Europe and if we can have some footing in France in the matter of Krishna Consciousness certainly this will be a great success. I am very glad that this subject matter is entrusted with you and I hope you will do it to your best capacity. Although I could not read any of your article, I have learned from Purushottam that they are written very nicely. He is not fully conversant with the language but he could read most of it. So far as reviews I think that there is no need to review non- sense boods and give them publicity at our cost. The sincere theists and philosophers will surely appreciate our presentation of Bhagavad Gita As It Is so you can write some articles on the basis of our discus- sions in this book or in Srimad Bhagava- tam. Regarding the six Goswamis of Vrin- daban, actually they are our guidance in Krishna Consciousness. Sanatan das Tha- kur has said that anyone who follows the footprints of the six Goswamis he will wish to be his servant. So we should al- ways try to follow the footprints of the Six Goswamis and it will be easy to under- stand the Krishna Conscious philosophy. Dyal Nitai is a very nice boy, a sincere soul so please try to train him as your as- sistant. I am very glad to learn that he is automatically improving in Krishna Con- sciousness on account of his sincere ser- vice spirit to Krishna and the Spiritual Master. That is the secret of success in Krishna Consciousness. I you want, I can send you the theistic vedanta interpretation which you can edit and translate into the French language for publication in Back To Godhead. There are four chapters of Vedanta Sutra and the first one called Janmadyasya I have ex- plained in my Srimad Bhagawatam at the very beginning. You can see it and if you think it is nice then I'll try to explain the other sutras in the same way. I am enclos- ing herewith the sanskrit tranliterations and meanings as requested by you. Please try for your Ph.D. very seri- ously and I am sure that Krishna will cer- tainly help you in this matter. I hope that this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-43 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Uddhava Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Dec. 17, 1968, and I have noted the contents care- fully. From your letter it is clear that as of yet you have no idea of how much the price will be to print our books. This is a very important factor and I think that now that Vaikunthanath and Patit Uddharan are in NY tohelpyou you should utilize their la- bor to arrive at some figure. As you know, Dai Nippon is printing our books for a price of approximately $1.20 per book with shipping paid so I do not know if our own press will be able to compete with such price. I there is good milk available plentifully in the amrket place there is no need to keep a cow. So similarly, if we can get our books printed and cheaply and with no trouble of labor then it is an ade- quate arrangement. From the beginning Advaita and yourself have been very sin- DECEMBER, 1968 643 cere and enthusiastic about this. project but now I think we must be very business like in investigating the price which will be required to print our books. So imme- diately you should look seriously into this question and inform me of your findings as you are able. I am so happy that you are looking to your marriage with Leelasuka and she also is happy with this arrangement. On Christmas day, Hayagriva and Shama Dasi are to be married in LA and this is very encouraging because we will wel- come the arrival of nice KC children to carry on this movement for which we are laying ground. Please convey my blessings to the oth- ers and I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, ACB NB: Please convey my thanks to Patit Ud- dharan for his nice letter. I will be looking forward to seeing the epic poem which he promised to be sending me soon. P.S. I have asked Hayagriva to invest some money in purchasing press and he has al- most agreed. Apart from labor and other cost you can give me an estimate of price of the materials required. ACB 68-12-44 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Aniruddha, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of December 17, 1968 and I thank you so much forit. From this letter I can see that you are taking seri- ous interest in the welfare of Girish, and this is very nice. You are quite right in your estimation that engagement in Krishna’s service will help him to pro- gress more and more. And keeping him 644 Letters from Srila Prabhupada engaged will similarly keep you engaged so I can see that there is all round benefit for you both. I do not think that at this time it will be necessary for you to obtain a teacher’s certificate. You have so many other important duties to perform in your center. Also, I understand that in West Virginia that the qualification for being teacher is simply that one has graduated from high school so there will be no ne- cessity of such teacher’s certificate. Be- fore long we are hoping to obtain a schooling program in New Vrindaban where our boys may be trained up in the principles of Krishna Consciousness as well as reading, writing and arithmetic. In Los Angeles, Vishnujahn is taking care of Birbhadra and this boy is also doing very nicely. Certainly this boy is very good soul to be in contact with Krishna Con- sciousness even at such an early age so be patient with him and I think that he will continue to progress very nicely. Please convey my blessings to Chid- ananda. I have received his letter and am encouraged that he is taking interest in selling our Bhagavad Gita As It Is. You may all try to distribute this book as far as possible and it will be a great service to our movement. If any sincere person reads this book I think that he will be im- pressed by the solid footing on which our Krishna Consciousness is based. All of the nonsense Bhagavad Gitas that deny Krishna are simply bluffs so if one is intel- ligent he is sure to get some inkling of the authorized nature of our Krishna Con- scious philosophy. So try to promote sales as far as you are able and Krishna will surely help you in this important en- deavor. Please convey my blessings to all oth- ers at your temple. I hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-45 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 15, and December 17, 1968. I have carefully noted the contents of both of these. You have requested my suggestion for the neon signboard outside of our new temple and I think that the bigger sign may say “International Society for Krishna Consciousness” and the other may say the Hare Krishna Mantra if it is not too much expensive. Regarding the listing of the Bhagavad Gita in the religion catolaogue of Mac- Millan, they have spelled it Bhagavid Gita and not Bhagavad Gita As It Is. I do not know why they should commit such mis- take, I hope that this will not hamper the sales. Please point out this discrepancy to Mr. Wade. The list of names you received from MacMillan of reviewer copies should be kept carefully so you may aproach them with copies of Teachings Of Lord Chaitanya. Try to convince these re- viewers that these literatures are very badly needed at the present time when people are becoming confused on account of godlessness. Our Krishna Conscious- ness movement is a re-orientation move- ment for reviving the dormant Krishna Consciousness so these reviewers should cooperate and help our movement as far as possible. I have seen the Teachings of Lord Chaitanya documents as and as requested by you I am returning them for your files. I am also sending back the voucher of the bank duly signed by me for debiting my account for the charges. But one thing I must inform you is that out of my account almost $7,000 has been withdrawn in so many ways. Now this should be filled up as soon as possible because a bank balance in my favor is reqired in this coun- try. Due to this bank balance I got my per- manent visa and also due to this bank balance we have got the nicest temple in Los Angeles. So in case of a need I may require to show this bank balance under different circumstances and especially be- cause I am a foreigner. Therefore the bank balance’s blank or vacancy already cre- ated by drawing out about $7,000 must be filled up by selling books as far as possi- ble. My only suggestion for this selling is to get the books widely reviewed in differ- ent papers and that is the only standard method of promoting this publication. By such reviews as soon as there is some de- mand all the book sellers will purchase from the publisher at least three copies each. That is the way of propagating sales organization. Regarding my apartment, if it is possi- ble to keep it with no strain on your finan- cial condition it is alright. Otherwise I am not very serious about retaining the apart- ment. Everything should be performed with no strain because too much financial strain will hamper our progress in Krishna Consciousness. Purushottam is helping me since he has come and I think that he should re- main with me always. I require a male secretary because there are so many let- ters coming daily and which require ex- pert management. At the same time he will be securing advertisements for Back To Godhead so I hope that you will not feel very much inconvenience because he is not there in New York. Regarding my health, I am glad to inform you that it is in better condition than that last year when I returned from India. I am feeling no more headaches nor any severe buzzing sound—but still some buzzing is going on. After all it is a broken house and I can- notexpectall the comforts of a newly built house in an old broken residence. I thank you once more for your noble DECEMBER, 1968 645 sentiments about me and I can simply say that for this nice attitude Krishna will cer- tainly help you. I am fully aware of your sincere service and therefore I pray always to Krishna for your all-round welfare. You have got a nice temple by the grace of my Spiritual Master. It is very encouraging to me. You should always pray to His Divine Grace because naturally He will be more affectionate to you than to me. Generally one is more affectionate to the grandchil- drenthan tothe children directly. So lam sure that my Guru Maharaj will be easily inclined to your prayers than that of mine. You will do good always by offering your prayers to His Divine Grace Bhaktisid- dhanta Goswami Maharaj. Please convey my blessings to all of the devotees in New York and I hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: So far as you performing the mar- riage ceremony inexchange for a nice rug, the idea is alright and if you request I will send you instructions. Enclosures. 68-12-46 Los Angeles 19th December, 1968 My Dear Rukmini, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 16, 1968 and I thank you very much for it. Regarding marriage with Nanda- kishore, the situation is simply that he is desirous of marrying and I had asked Purushottam to see if you are agreeable to this proposal. In your letter you have writ- ten that you are desiring to remain as brahmacharini for a few years longer and this idea is alright. In India the mar- riage between a boy and girl is arranged by the parents but in this country such 646 Letters from Srila Prabhupada arrangement is not possible so we never request our students to marry if they are not desiring to do this. Iam happy to learn that you are paint- ing a portrait of my Guru Maharaj and that it is coming along nicely. As our move- ment continues to spread around the world we will be requiring so many of such paintings so that so many devotees and friends may engage their eyes in see- ing Krishna and His devotees. So please try to improve your artistic abilities as far as possible. I am sure that Jadurany will always be a helpto you in this matter. So far as offering to Krishna apple ci- der, this can be done only if it is prepared by devotees. These food manufacturers do not take proper precautions in cleanliness nor do they have devotion to Krishna in their labors so it is not very acceptable of- fering. If you can make this preparation yourself then it will be alright. So please continue to engage yourself in Krishna’s service very sincerely and I am sure that Krishna will help you in all ways to advance more and more. I am al- ways praying that Krishna will give you strength to continue to go on nicely. Please convey my blessings to all of your good god-brothers and god-sisters in Bos- ton. I hope that this letter finds you all in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-47 Los Angeles 20th December, 1968 My Dear Rupanuga, Please accepot my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of December 15, 1968 and have noted the contents with much satisfaction and encouragement. This ac- credited course which you have attained at the University of Buffalo is a very nice break-through for Lord Chaitanya’s movement in the West. Please do this very carefully and seriously and I am sure that Lord Chaitanya will give you the intelli- gence from within to successfully execute this new, important project. I think that under your expert guidance many of the students in your class will eventually un- derstand something of the great impor- tance of what you are teaching. By Krishna’s Grace perhaps the more intelli- gent will also decide to join you and help you. I am handing over the course pro- posal which you have sent me to Haya- griva who is here in Los Angeles with me. He is planning to attempt a similar course in the University of Ohio. So if we can teach to the college students in this way surely it will be a great boon to our soci- ety. You have laid ground work for this project and for this I give to you my hearty thanks. Regarding your question of the plane- tary systems, the planets are arranged in each universe in layers like the petals of a lotus. But in each layer there is mixed both heavenly, hellish and middle planets. On the outside layer there are these three kinds of planets, on the middle layers there are the three kinds of planets and on the inner-most layer there are found these three kinds of planets. Above these layers, in the center, is the Brahmaloka where Lord Brahma, the creator is residing. So the earth planet and the moon planet are both on the same layer but the earth is middle planet and the moon is heavenly planet. I have sent to Jagadisha his beads duly initiated upon by me and I hope that he has received them by now. Please offer my blessings to Ernestine, Mr. Eric, Bhuri- jana and all others who are helping you at your center. I hope that you are all in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami DECEMBER, 1968 647 68-12-48 Los Angeles 21st December, 1968 My Dear Mr. Ginsberg, Please accept my blessings. I was much agrieved to hear the news of your accident and I was very anxious to learn that you are lying now in the hospital. I hope that you are progressing nicely but in any condition I request that you continue to chant the Maha Mantra, Hare Krishna. Here is a chance for you to chant Hare Krishna exclusively in the hospital bed. This world is full of dangers in every step. Just like in the ocean there is danger in every step but if we take shelter of boat which is known as the Lotus Feet of Lord Krishna, then this great ocean of danger becomes as harmless as a small pit. We shall be able to cross hundreds of such pits simply by chanting the Holy Names of the Lord, the Hare Krishna Mantra. I am forwarding this letter through Rupanuga and I shall be glad to hear about your improved health from him. Praying to Krishna for your early recovery. Do not be worried. Krishna will save you from all dangers. Chant sincerely. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-49 Los Angeles 21st December, 1968 London My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your very encour- aging letter of December 16, 1968 and I’ve noted the contents with great pleasure and hope. It is understood from your letter that Mr. George Harrison has a little sympa- thy for our movement and if Krishna is ac- tually satisfied on him surely he will be able to join with us in pusning on the Samkirtan Movement throughout the world. Somehow or other the Beatles have become the cynosure of the neighboring European countries and America also. He is attracted by our Samkirtan Party and if Mr. George Harrison takes the leading part in organizing a huge Samkirtan Party consisting of the Beatles and our Iskcon Boys surely we shall change the face of the world so much politically harrassed by the manuevers of the politicians. The people in general are in need of such movement. If Mr. George Harrison wants to benefit himself, his country and the people of the world I think that he must join this Krishna Consciousness movement with no hesitation. His proposal to offer us a five story building is very welcome. Actu- ally we need such a nice building is very welcome. Actually we need such a nice building in London. People of the world take it very seriously. During the British period in India, anything which was trade- marked, ‘“‘ made in London” was sold very quickly, so try to make your London Yatra equally important so that when the young boys and girls of England and America combine together in Samkirtan Party it will be a great revolution in the world, even in Russia and China. I shall be glad to hear from you further on this matter. So far as our Hamburg center is con- cerned, the boy, Krishna Das is very sin- cere and intelligent boy. If you go for a week or so late January or early February it will be good suggestion. Regarding Ha- waii, I was to go there immediately but the Samkirtan Party here led by Tamal Krishna has asked me to stay here at least for one month more. So I am immediately not going to Hawaii but I am always anx- ious to go to the London Yatra. I am very much hopeful when you say in your clos- ing line, “soon we will have a temple, soon we will have a temple, soon we will 648 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda have a temple.” Thank you very much. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. If you have serious engagement with Mr. George Harrison then don’t move from London unti! your business if fin- ished. P.S. Have you any copies of Bhagavad Gita? If not then order from Brahmananda and present one hard bound copy to Mr. George Harrison with my compliements. He will be pleased to read it. ACB 68-12-50 Los Angeles 21st December, 1968 My Dear Harer Nama, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter dated December 10, 1968 and have noted the contents care- fully. I was very happy to read how you are keeping nicely engaged in giving lectures at schools and preparing for a puppet show of Krishna Consciousness stories. This is very nice and if you continue to ac- celerate with engagements such as these then I am sure that you will be very suc- cessful in propagating this movement of Lord Chaitanya. When Krishna sees that we are trying very sincerely to preach His message to others He becomes very pleased and showers all blessings upon the devotee. So please continue to pro- gress in this spirit and I am sure that Krishna will arrange to see that your fu- ture in Krishna Consciousness will be very nice. Regarding your question about Krishna recommending the chanting of His Holy Names, probably you have not marked it in your study of the Bhagavad Gita, but in chapter 9, verse 14, Krishna describes how His devotees are always chanting His Names. Lord Chaitanya, al- though He is Krishna Himself, is even more merciful than Krishna in that He has shown to the fallen living entities of the kali yuga how the chanting process can immediately elevate one upto the spiritual atmosphere. Your second question about falling down from the brahmjyoti is answered that it is not that one must fall down, but that they generally fall down. There is a verse in Srimad Bhagwatam, 10th canto, 2nd chapter, verse 26, which says: “My Dear Lotus Eyed Personality of Godhead, persons who are very proud of becoming one with the brahma effulgence and thereby consider that they have become liberated are factually in a contaminated consciousness on account of the absence of devotional service unto You. Such per- sons may rise to a high level of spiritual understanding as far as the impersonal brahmajyoti but on account of the lack of devotional service unto You, they gener- ally fall down again into material contami- nation.” The final question which was asked by Tosan about the validity of the story of the sparrow and the ocean, you should know that everything that is found in these scrip- tures is factual. There is nothing allegory. But you must not depend upon your own limited experience. What happens in dif- ferent corners of the Lord’s Creation no one can say. But we can hear from the au- thentic Vedic sources such as the Puranas. This story of the sparrow is found in the Puranas. [PAGE MISSING] 68-12-51 Los Angeles 21st December, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your letter of December 17, 1968 and have carefully noted the contents. Regarding Rukmini, I think that if she DECEMBER, 1968 649 is desiring to marry Upendra then that idea is very nice and approved by me. If she will rather wait for awhile that is all right but in either case Upendra should be informed of her plans. It is very good sign that Rukmini is willing to submit this de- cision into my hands, but I think that in this country it is best if she can make her ownchoice of marriage plans. So whether marrying now or in the future, she will have my blessings. I hope that you are tending carefully to your health. Please convey my blessings to your good god-brothers and sisters in Boston temple. Hope you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-52 Los Angeles 24th December, 1968 My Dear Chidananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated Dec. 20, 1968, and with great pleasure I have noted the contents. Both you and Aniruddha are sincere devotees with good talents, so anything you do by combined consultation has my 100% approval. The idea of distri- bution of Prasadam is long standing, and I suggested this from the very beginning of my missionary activities, both in New York, and in San Francisco. But it has never come to any practical shape till now. Therefore, if you can actually start a Pra- sadam distribution program, it will be very very nice. But to start a separate res- taurant for this purpose does not appeal to me. If we have Prasadam distribution pro- gram it is to be done in the temple prem- ises, not separately. Separate attempt will require separate energy diverted from the temple management. Therefore if you do at all start Prasadam distribution, try to do it in the temple itself. In the temple also if you keep some Indian goods for sale, that is also very nice. But don’t attempt two at a time. First of all start the Prasadam dis- tribution and make it successful, then try to do business in Indian goods. Regarding chanting in the street chased by the police is not good at all. The best thing is to invite people in our temple, and chant peacefully. If a person can sell from 7 to 12 magazines individually there is no need of making a procession of chanters and thereby disturbing the police equilibrium. If you can sell Back To God- head individually as proposed by you, and some copies of our books, like Bhagavad Gita As It Is, that will be a great success. And there is no need of leading a proces- sion of chanters for this purpose. The idea submitted by you is very nice, and I have given my 100% approval and I have given my opinionas above mentioned. Now you can do with intelligence dependending on the supreme will of Krishna. I hope this will meet you in good health, and offer my blessings to all the devotees there. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-53 Los Angeles 24th December, 1968 London My Dear Gurudas, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your recent letter (undated) along with copies of the syndi- cate contact inviting for newspaper repro- duction of the Royal Albert Hall chanting and they are all very encouraging. I am sure that Krishna is helping you all around for your honest and sincere en- deavors. Just previous to your letter I re- ceived one very encouraging letter from Shyamsundar reporting of his meeting with George Harrison who I understand has promised to give us a 5-story building in one of the busiest qarters of London. 650 Letters from Srila Prabhupada You have arranged for the convocation and I have seen the list of invitees. It is very encouraging. Please conduct this convo- cation carefully and try to recruit some sympathizers for our nice London center. I am dispatching one tape by separate reg- ister air mail in which you’ll find my speech for this occasion. It begins with “Ladies and Gentlemen.” I think this speech will be nice and it is recorded on speed 3 3/4. Regarding your analogy of sowing KC seeds, I may inform you that there is a Bengali proverb—Sa bure Meoya Phale. This means that fruits like chestnuts and pomegranates, or similar other valuable fruits and nuts take some time to be fructi- fied. So any good thing comes in our pos- session after hard struggle and endeavor. So Krishna Consciousness is the greatest of all good fruits. We must therefore have necessary endurance and enthusiasm to get the result. We shall never be disap- pointed when things are presented in re- versed order. Anyway, your honest labor isnow coming to be fructified. Always de- pend upon Krishna and go on working with enthusiasm, patience and convic- tion. In the meantime, I have received one letter from Sri C. Govind which is also very encouraging. I understand that Sri Govind and Pandit Trika are now cooper- ating with you. Please keep them as good friends. Mr. Govind appears to be very in- telligent man and he has grasped the Samkirtan movement is very suitable for the younger generation in the Western world. Our policy of Krishna Consciousness is very nice. We are offering people good family life with faithful wives in Krishna Consciousness. Similarly, able husbands in Krishna Consciousness so that the younger generation will be happy to have nice home, nice wife, nice food, nice dress, nice philosophy of life, nice culture and ultimately, nice Krishna. So this movement is the nicest of all other move- ments. Simply the ministers should be ready, intelligent, honest, and sincere. Then surely the Krishna Consciousness movement will be accepted by all consid- erate men and women. Thank you again for your letter and I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Yamuna, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of December 16, 1968 and I have noted the contents carefully and with pleasure. So far as the mistake on the certificates, I think that only on the certif- icates to be given to brahmacharinies is it necessary to change the spelling, because on the brahmachary’s certificate this word Srimate will be crossed out. So on the cer- tificates forthe brahmacharinies, you may cover the letter “e” with a white paint and insert the correct letter “i”, making the word read ‘‘Srimati’’. So do this nicely and it will be all right. It is all right to read the books you have mentioned, namely Swami Bon’s Bhakti Ramsamrita Shindu and Chaitanya Charitamrita by Nagendra Kumar Ray, but you will be pleased to know that we are now composing the Nec- tar of Devotion, which is a complete sum- mary of the Bhakti Rasamrita Shindu. Regarding the translation by Bon Ma- haraj, it is only one quarter of the com- plete work and I do not know if the other parts will come out very shortly. So far as having the Radha-Krishna murtis carved for Rs 1000, it is too costly. Continue to negotiate with Jayagovinda on this matter. Here in Los Angeles, one boy, Nara Narayan, is planning to attempt murtis in bronze but I do not know that he will be successful. DECEMBER, 1968 651 So please convey my blessings to your husband, and I hope that you are both well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami My Dear Malati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you for your letter of December 17, 1968, I am always so glad .to be hearing from you. Your sincere attitudes expressed are very nice and I thank you for them. I am very pleased that you are serving your husband nicely and helping him so that he may advance his Krishna Consciousness. When the husband advances, automati- cally the wife shares in his success so there is all around benefit. So a good wife is a great boon to her husband and to her children so please continue in this way and I know that your life will be very suc- cessful. Kindly convy my blessings to Shyamsundar and Saraswati Devi. I hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: So far as the new chant that you heard being sung at arti, there is no objection. ACB 68-12-54 Los Angeles 25th December, 1968 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of yourletter without any date. Purushottam says that this is a particular specialty of your letters that you write without any date. I think that you are right, because you are eternal. There is no beginning and no end and your enthusi- asm is also eternal. You never get tired of serving Krishna, so I hope you shall eter- nally be engaged in serving Krishna, so I hope you shall eternally be engaged in serving Krishna because there is no end of such service. I am very glad that you are taking the responsibility of doing pictures for “Krishna”, and if Joy Fulcher has al- ready gone there she may help you. The pictures should be paintings and if you prefer, you can make larger paintings so that when they will be printed they can be reduced to the size of the book, 8 1/2 x 11”. The tenth canto contains forty chap- ters about Krishna in Vrindaban, and 50 chapters of Krishna in Dwarka. So our book will most likely have the firt volume of the forty chapters of Krishna in Vrinda- ban, with one picture for each chapter. I will now submit my suggestions for the first five pictures. 1. Pregnant Devaki is sitting in a pal- ace room and some glaring effulgence is coming out of her body. Almost near the ceiling of the room, the demigods are sur- rounding her and praying for the Appear- ance of Lord Krishna. Some of the demigods are throwing flowers upon her. 2. Devaki is sitting in a different palace room and Vishnu with His four hands (conch, club, wheel, lotus) in yellow dress appeared before her. In this scene, Devaki and Vyasadev are bowing down to Lord Vishnu and praying. 3. Krishna is laying happily on the lap of Devaki just like He is an ordinary child. 4. Setting of the scene: Vyasadev saw that all of the doors were opened and that the gate-keepers were asleep so he went outside of the house and came to the bank of the Yamuna. He sees that the river is in- flated with rainy season water and he thinks, ‘‘How shall I cross?” Then he saw a jackel crossing the river and Vyasadev realized that the river was shallow and only up to his ankles. So Vyasadev, hold- ing Little Krishna in his arms follows the jackal across the Yamuna River. So this night scene of walking across the river is the fourth picture. 652 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 5. Across the Yamuna River, Vyasadev came upon the house of Nanda Maharaj, where Yasoda was lying asleep with her little girl baby. The fifth picture is where Vyasadev exchanges babies with the sleeping Yasoda. So please do these pictures very beau- tifully. I am enclosing a photograph of a painting which is in a very nice style that you should also paint your paintings. When you are almost finished with these five paintings then inform me so we may assign you further. Please convey my blessings to the other devotees there in Boston. I hope this finds you looking very carefully to main- taining your health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-55 Los Angeles 27th December, 1968 My Dear Himavati, Please accept my blessings. I thank you very much for your sending me the cap and dresses for Radha-Govinda, which are so nice and beautiful. When I put on the hat sent by you on my head, ev- eryone says that it is brilliant, and because one has to dress according to the taste of friends this hat has become an important factor of my dressing. Thank you very much. The present dress ofthe deity is a little shorter than usual. There is no need of sending any measurements, neither the present dresses are rejectable, but in the future you can make the dresses one-half inch longer than the present ones. The small dresses you sent will give an oppor- tunity to look upon the Lotus Feet of the Lord and His Most Beautiful Consort, Srimati Radharani. I know you are always eager to help me in all respects, and what can I do for you except pray to Krishna that you become more and more advanced in Krishna Con- sciousness along with your very, very good husband. Thanking you once more. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-56 Los Angeles 27th December, 1968 My Dear Satyabhama, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your very nice and encouraging letter dated December 20, 1968, and I have noted the contents with great pleasure. There is a statement of Sri Naradaji, the exact sanskrit words are: “‘Satdharmasya ababadhaya yenam nirbndhini matih Achirat eva sarbarthah siddhati esam akhipasitan.”’ The purport is that anyone desiring to raise the people’s standard of advance- ment in spiritual life, will have their noble desire very soon successful by the Grace of the Lord. So I am very glad to see your enthusiasm in the matter of starting a Krishna Consciousness primary school in New Vrindaban and it will be just befit- ting that you become the head-mistress of the school. I have shown your letter to Prof. Howard Wheeler (Hayagriva das Adhikary)—he was just married the day before yesterday with Shama Dasi, a very nice girl like you. I am also enclosing Hayagriva’s letter to you along with this. Now you can do the needful and make ar- rangements to start the school immedi- ately. If you take charge of the children of our devotees and give them nice education strictly on Krishna Consciousness princi- DECEMBER, 1968 653 ples, it will be a great help to the preachers, just like our six students, hus- bands and wives, who are preaching in London. One of them has got a child and as soon as she is at least two years old, she may be sent under your care. New Vrin- daban is just the suitable place for keeping cows and children. It will be an ideal resi- dential quarter, completely for spiritual life and I hope for the future the Americans must evaluate this enterprise as very very valuable. If you want to write books for children, story books about Krishna’s Pastimes, I shall give you nice hints and Hansadutta and Himavati can help you with nice pic- tures. I shall give you some facts about Lord Jaganath also. I am very glad to learn the practical result of deity worship in your behavior. I am so glad to learn that you are feeling development of a bit of af- fection for Jaganath by personal taking care, and that is the way of increasing our love of Godhead. Deity worship is the practical demonstration and hearing from the Spiritual Master is the nourishment of the idea. Krishna Consciousness is so nice that anyone who has a little taste of it must feel a distinction between his past and present life. It is not only the case with you but it is the case for everyone who has the fortunate opportunity for coming into contact with Krishna. I thank you very much for your taking my time in this way. May Krishna be pleased upon you; both you and your good husband will be more and more spiritu- ally happy by your nice service attitude in Krishna Consciousness. Actually, I have no desire to start the school in any city. City life, especially in this age of kali yuga, is very much pol- luted. Poet Cowper stated that the city is made by man and the village is made by God. So in the village there is a natural tendency for Krishna Consciousness, so we want to develop such atmosphere in New Vrindaban. Your cooperation in this matter will very much encourage me. Thank you once more for your letter. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-57 Los Angeles 28th December, 1968 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated December 24, 1968 and I have noted the contents with pleasure. I am so encouraged that your activities in Hawaii are going nicely and I will be look- ing forward to seeing you again when I am able to go there. You had been having prob- lems with Madhavi lata, and Krishna has solved the problem because she is now in the Halawa Jail and preaching very nicely. I re- ceived one letter from her yesterday and she describes that some of her acquaintances there are already considering initiation, so Krishna has arranged to release you of any burden you were feeling and also she is hav- ing the opportunity to do service. I have seen the Istogosti notes of your meetings which were sent by Lilavati, and you are doing very nice in speaking on the principles of Krishna Consciousness. So with your speaking talents there is so much valuable preaching work that you will have opportunity to do to relieve the burden of the suffering humanity. So more and more try to develop this skill, such able speakers as yourself are a great boon to spreading this movement of Sri Chai- tanya Mahaprabhu. Thanking you once more for your let- ter, I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Govinda Dasi is preparing herself for going —, to you at Hawaii. 654 Letters from Srila Prabhupada 68-12-58 Los Angeles, 28th December, 1968 My Dear Madhavi Lata, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 24, 1968 which was sent from the Halawa Jail. It is nice that you are doing preaching work there, but you should know that such practices like stealing are against the principles of Krishna Con- sciousness. I always want that my students should be very ideal in character and not discredit our society. Actually, one who is in Krishna Consciousness automatically develops all of the good qualities which are possessed by the demigods. So we should always try to develop in this way by becoming fully surrendered to Lord Krishna. For Krishna we can execute any activity, but this is not free license to act whimsically. Arjuna was able to fight on the Battlefield of Kurukshetra because this was Krishna’s desire, not because it was simply his whims. So please try to re- member this and Krishna will help you surely as you are sincere soul. I am pleased to know that even in such circumstances as the Halawa Jail you are taking opportunity to remember Krishna and to preach His Divine message to your acquaintances there. Already you have sparked some interest in some of the women there, and my request to these ladies is that they chant Hare Krishna loudly or softly, as they are able, and if they like they may order our Bhagavad Gita As It Is which can be ordered from here in Los Angeles. Please keep me informed as to your situation with the jail. I hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-59 Los Angeles 29th December, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated December 25, 1968 and I have carefully noted the contents. I am always encouraged to learn how you are working hard and progress- ing more and more in Krishna Conscious- ness. In distributing the ‘‘perfection in yoga” leaflet, when people come to your temple you may explain to them the prin- ciples of yoga as they are described in the Bhagavad Gita. Such instructions by you may be preceeded and followed by Krishna kirtan. If they are interested, you may show them how to sit, concentrating the eyesight on the tip of the nose. The concentration should be on Lord Krishna or Lord Vishnu, as is explained in Bha- gavad Gita As It Is. So if they come to know about hatha yoga you can show them in the authoritative scriptures how it can- not be successfully practised in this present age of kali. Regarding Nectar of Devotion, you needn’t bother about it now. We have solved the problem of what is to be done. Purushottam is now typing with the dicta- phone, and he will then edit it and send to Rayarama for a final copy. So far as the new book, “Krishna”, Ihave already sent suggestions to Jadurany, and as soon as the pictures are drawn, I will send to you the tapes. In this way the Krishna book will be completed. I think that because Jadurany is not quite healthy at the present there is no need of overburdening with pregnancy. In her weakness, the child will be a burden for you and her. Also a child born in weak health is always unhealthy. So it is better you wait until the situation improves. DECEMBER, 1968 655 Please convey my blessings to the oth- ers at your temple. I hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-60 Los Angeles 29th December, 1968 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived the copy of the article printed in the University District Herald, and I thank you very much for your nice efforts in publicizing your temple activities. You will be glad to know that just yesterday, in the Los Angeles Times there was publica- tion of my opinion about the moon planet excursion. Such work with the local news- papers as you are nicely doing is very good. Try to agitate as far as possible our activities. Always be engaged so that maya will not disturb you. Chant Hare Krishna as many times during the day as you are able. Occupy your time in deity worship in full cooperation with Gajendra das and there will be no disturbance. As more articles are printed about your ac- tivities please continue to send them, it is encouraging to see how you are working nicely. I hope this finds you all in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-61 Los Angeles 29th December, 1968 My Dear Nandakishore, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 19, 1968 and I have noted the con- tents carefully. Regarding your thoughts of marriage, I think that for the present time you should take your mind away from such concep- tions. Marriage is not so important. Your age is not so ripen that Marriage is re- quired. Try to remain as brahmachary, that is important. There will be many girls available in the future, so there will be no difficulty in finding a wife if you are desir- ing in this way. So try to remain a brahma- chary as far as possible. If you should still be very eager, then you may write to Brahmananda in New York because in June there should be a few girls there who will be finished with schooling and avail- able for marriage. I am glad that you are working sin- cerely for spreading this Krishna Con- sciousness movement. Please continue in this way and Krishna will surely help you to advance more and more and finally to go back to Home, back to Godhead. It is nice that you have written to this Reverend Malcolm Boyd, if you can somehow prove to him the importance of this movement of Krishna Consciousness, it will be very nice. Please convey my blessings to the oth- ers. I hope that you are very well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-62 Los Angeles 29th December, 1968 My Dear Dyal Nitai, Please accept my blessings. I bet to ac- knowledge receipt of your letter dated De- cember 21, 1968 and I thank you very much forthis. You are a very good worker I am fully aware, and I am always encour- aged by your nice enthusiasm. You have written at length in apologizing for your difficulty in Eanglish language, but we are not concerned with language but with the heart. But at the same time, our lan- guage must be elegant to deal with the public. Anyway, you are entrusted with the French edition of Back to Godhead 656 Letters from Srila Prabhupada and this is nothing to do with the English language. Your sincere devotional service will surely help you more and more in im- proving your fluency with English, you need have no doubt about this. But even if our language is broken we must speak of Krishna Consciousness without caring for literary or gramatical style. English is.a foreign language to me also, but I try to speak it, not to be a big scholar, but to be a servant of Krishna. Sodo not be disturbed if you feel that your language ability is not yet very expert. I very much appreciate your proposal to bind the yearly editions of your maga- zine in a permanent book. This will be very nice so that in the future these maga- zines will be preserved for people to take advantage of the valuable articles. Regarding teaching other forms of yoga in the yoga class, you may instruct upon the 6th chapter of Bhagavad Gita. That will include the process of the Ptana- jali system. Practically, any process be- sides samkirtan will not be very effective in this age of kali yuga, so as much as pos- sible try to have your students chanting Hare Krishna and dancing in ecstasy. This will be very successful for everyone. So far as doing outside printing work on your printing machine, if it is worth while in terms of finance, then you may do this. Thanking you once more for your nice letter, I hope that you are very well. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-63 Los Angeles 31st December, 1968 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to ackowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 27, 1968 and I have noted the con- tents carefully. I have seen with very much pleasure the floor plan to our new temple. You have done nicely in arranging the placement of the various items in the temple. Having the guests enter through the store area is all right and will be good advertisement. Regarding Nara Narayan, he is already preparing to go there. He is very intelli- gent and I understand that he has very fine carpentry skills. Also, he has knowledge about casting deities, so after his business with the temple work is completed you can try to encourage him to continue with his casting work. He is coming from a re- spectable farm family, but sometimes I understand he becomes little eccentric, so keep him carefully. He is a hard worker and a good boy, and a devotee also. So far as portioning off part of the kitchen for prasadam taking area, the idea is very nice. But as usual, no prasadam should be taken in the kitchen where cooking goes on. So far as your safe, I will send some papers for safe-keeping later on. I have also a safe deposit box in the bank here, and there is no charge for its use. I am wondering if there is any charge for the box at the Trade Bank. You have written that you have received the 2nd canto Sri- mad Bhagawatam, and please keep it carefully in my room for the present time. The new temple in Los Angeles is very nice and Samkirtan is going on there very nicely. I do not know how is your temple there, Ihave heard that it is very nice, but I think that the temple here is propably nicer. The rent is higher here though. Nara Narayan will give you details when he arrives. Enclosed is the duly signed documents for instating Rishi Kumar as the new secretary. He is very good boy. Please convey my blessings to all of the nice devotees of the New York temple. I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: I have just received your letter of DECEMBER, 1968 657 December 28, 1968. As you have nicely suggested, I am sending one copy of Bha- gavad Gita As It Is to Srimati Morajie, but I do not think we require to send one to Dr. Radhakrishnan. In the future it is all right if we open a letter of credit with the United Shipping Company. Regarding this order sent on December 12, 1968, please send me a price breakdown of the various items so we may see how it totals to $250. ACB P.S. I have not heard anything from Gargamuni since a long time neither any check . I am simply thinking of $7000.00 always as it is withdrawn from my savings. It must be filled up as soon as possible. ACB 68-12-64 Los Angeles 31st December, 1968 My Dear Satsvarupa, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of De- cember 27, 1968 along with one very beautiful picture by Jadurany. I am so pleased to see this wonderful portrait and please convey my hearty thanks to Ja- durany for her fine endeavors. Regarding the article suggested by Rayarama, you are correct in your doubts that Radha-Krishna leela should not be discussed in Back To Godhead. In the Sri- mad Bhagawatam there are so many philosophical discussions and we should concentrate on these philosophical as- pects. Otherwise the less intelligent will surely understand Radha-Krishna leela as simply nonsense boy and girl sex life. Hanuman Prasad Poddar and company are all mundane types and they have no entrance into actual spiritual activities. Superficially they pose themselves as great devotees, but we can feel their pulse; ultimately they are impersonalists. We should not depend upon writings from such unauthorized sources. Strictly we should avoid publishing these confidential topics in Back To Godhead. This is dan- gerous for the conditioned soul. Although such Krishna leela can do some good to the mundane people in the long run, to un- derstand the philosophical aspects of Bha- gavad Gita and Srimad Bhagawatam in the beginning is essential and will make for good stride in spiritual life. I do not know why Rayarama has asked you to send such article. It is not to my sanction. We shall be very careful about mundane sex life. That is the pivot center of condi- tioned life. You are intelligent enough and. I hope that Krishna. will help you in these matters. I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-65 Los Angeles 31st December, 1968 My Dear Shivananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your very long letter dated December 23, 1968 which explains the whole situation that you are undergoing. First of all, I must inform youthat Vaman- dev’s advice that first you should make a move and then consult your spiritual mas- ter is most unauthorized. A disciple should not do anything without asking first his Spiritual Master. It is said in Sri- mad Bhagavatam that a brahmachary should beg and collect things and then de- liver them to his Spiritual Master, and when the Spiritual Master will ask him to come and take prasadam he will do so. If one day the Spiritual Master forgets to call a brahmachary to participate in the lunch, he should rather fast that day than take food out of his own accord. Of course I do 658 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda not mean to impose upon you such stric- tures, but the purport is that a brahma- chary should not do anything without being directed by the Spiritual Master. I know that you are sincere devotee and a faithful brahmachary, but still you should not do anything without consenting me. If Vamandev gave such unauthorized coun- sel, he did not do right. Anyway, I have carefully read the contents of your letter and I can understand your mental situa- tion. Your scheme is all right, your mother has some financial strength and you want to be in her confidence to get the money engaged in the Krishna Conscious- ness Movement. That’s a good scheme, but unfortunately we do not get financial help by our schemes, but should always depend upon the Causeless Mercy of Lord Krishna. Under the present circumstance you are the only elder member of the Ham- burg center, and if you leave, even for the fulfillment of some scheme, it will not be nice. The New Vrindaban scheme is very nice, but even though you take it very seriously, you cannot do anything there at the present winter season. In the winter, the activities there are almost sus- pended. As such, I advise you to stay in Hamburgat least for three months longer. In the meantime I am trying to Jay- agovindato Germany, and when he goes it will be all right for you to arrange for leav- ing for New Vrindaban. Regarding the draft situation, I can send to you a letter and certificate verifying that you are our student. But anywhere you will be stay- ing, you will be a student of the Bhagavad Gita, and as I have issued a certificate to some students here, I will also issue one certificate unto you. There will be no trouble. So is that for the time be- ing, you sould not leave Hamburg leaving the younger boys perplexed. Simply con- tinue to lecture, chant Hare Krishna, read Bhagavad Gita carefully. Perhaps you know by now that our Bhagavad Gita As It Is is already published and you can get copies by writing to New York center. So try to stabilize the Hamburg center first and then think of your New Vrindaban scheme which will be taken very seriously for next spring or summer. Don’t be dis- turbed in mind. Whatever irregularities you have and with chanting your rounds with Gayatrai Mantra, that you to now and Krishna will forgive you. I am praying to Krishna for steadiness of your mind. I am very encouraged by your work in the Hamburg streets which you sent me a photograph of. This picture was re- printed here and I have shown your exam- ple to many friends and temples here. Iam sure that if you keep to that spirit you will be a great preacher in the future. So far as your mother’s money, Krishna will arrange to deliver it in due time. But don’t be deviated in any way from your present chance for Krishna Consciousness. I have received letters from Uttama Sloka and Krishna das and I will reply to both very soon. I hope this finds you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, 68-12-66 [TEXT MISSING] of December 24, along with your nice —— which I have read with pleasure. I have already explained in Shivananda’s letter ___. I will send you a letter and cer- tificate to alleviate your draft difficulties, and I will do the same for you. So there will be no need for you to plan to leave in few months. I have seen your poetry and it is very nice. Try to write more and to have it published. If you like, I can send you more topics to write poetries about and to versify into the German language. Try to translate articles for a German edition of Back To Godhead, which you can arrange DECEMBER, 1968 659 to be printed in Hamburg, as they are printing a French edition from our Mon- treal center. Somehow or other you should dedicate your life for developing your Hamburg center. If you still like, you can marry in the future, but for the present continue with brahmachary life so far as you can. This brahmachary life can be continued only by deep absorption in Krishna Con- sciousness. Don’t be disturbed in your mind. I have sent a letter to Shivananda to stay there and conjointly work with you and Krishna das in progresing the success of the Hamburg center. I hope that this finds you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 68-12-67 Madam Sumati Morar jee Baishaheba, Please accept my hearty greetings. Since a long time I did not hear from you, and I hope everything is going well with your health and business. Last year in July I went back to India and from Vrindaban, I wrote you a letter, asking your appoint- ment to see you, but I never received any reply. Several times I reminded you, but I did not receive any reply. Then again, ac- cording to your letter dated 11th April, 1966, I contacted your Calcutta manager, Sri I.N. Wankawala, but he refused to carry your order as per your letter dated 11th April, 1966. He refused to carry my goods, or carry my men, and I did not re- ceive any reply from you, so I was help- less, and came back to New York again. At present, I am in Canada. I hope you are receiving my paper ‘“‘Back To Godhead” regularly; by the Grace of Krishna, the preaching work in this part of the world about Krishna Consciousness is improv- ing. You will be glad to know that I have got now 8 branches, in USA, and Canada. Next, Iam going to Europe and shall open branches in London, in Amsterdam, Mu- nich, and Sweden, and that is my pro- gram. Some of my students have already gone with Kirtan party; and about my ac- tivities, you might have heard from differ- ent papers, especially in January 21, 1968, there was a nice article in the ‘‘II- lustrated Weekly of Bombay.” I hope you have seen it. Now my appeal to you that in your letter dated 11th April, 1966, you wrote as follows. The exact copy of the letter is given herewith; please read: From SUMATI MORARJEE Scindia House Dougall Road, Ballard Estate, Bombay 11th April, 1966 Pujya Swamiji, I acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 18th March and am glad to note about your activities in New York particu- larly the fact that you are arranging to con- struct a temple of Sri Radha Krishna in New York. Regarding free passage to be provided to your men from India to New York on our ships, kindly note that these gentle- men will have to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank of India and therefore I suggest that you please request them to complete the P form formalities and thereafter please ask them to contact Shri ILN. Wankawala of our Calcutta office whom I am advising suitably. As regards equipments for the temple such as Mridangam for Samkirtan, also I am advising Shri Wankawala to allow freight-free shipment on our vessels. You may therefore advise those concerned to contact him for this purpose. I may add 660 Letters from Srila Prabhupada that for shipment form Cochin also Shri Wankawala of our Calcutta office should be contacted and he will do the needful. I did receive your earlier two letters, but could not acknowledge the same since I was out of station in U.K. for Shipping Conference Meetings and other work. I wish you success in your mission. With kind regards, Yours sincerely, (Sumati Morar jee) I could not understand why your man- ager, Mr. Wankawala, refused to carry out the orders of your letter under reference. Anyway, my fervent request to you is that you continue to help me as per your above letter. It will be good to you and to your business. I am trying to open several Radha Krishna Temples as I have already done in several places, in USA and Canada, and next I am going to open in Europe also. So please ask your Calcutta manager to carry my goods free of freight charges as per your letter under reference, dated 11th April, 1966. Some of my Indian friends are ready to donate Sri Sri Radha Krishna Vigraha for installation in the temples. Formerly, also, one Mr. Bhargava of Agra, he do- nated one Pair of Radha Krishna Vigraha, with dress, and it was sent to Calcutta, and your Calcutta office was kind enough to carry it free of freight charges. Now they have denied. I have to import at least 20 Pairs of such Vigraha, and if you at least carry the Vigrahas, freight charges free, it will be a great help to my cause. Besides that, I am getting Mridangas, Khole, from Navadwip, Khartals. So there are many paraphernalia I require for my tem- ples. It is not meant for business; and I did not know why Mr. Wankawala refused. There are some copies of books, Sri- mad Bhagavatam, lying in your Bombay office, as it was delivered by Mr. Dharwarkar of the Universal Bookstore, Pipe Road, Sita-Sadan, Dadar, Bombay. Please arrange to send these books to New York. These books are lying there for nothing, and if they are sent to New York, I can get them sold. Regarding free passage to be provided to my men, as you have kindly agreed, in your above letter; there will be no diffi- culty to get the Reserve Bank permission, because I shall arrange for sponsoring their expenses here in United States, and it is not possible to pay their fare. They wanted to get some expert player of Mri- dangam, from India, so please cooperate with me, and help my missionary activi- ties. By practical experience, I am seeing that by spreading Krishna Consciousness movement, the people here, especially the younger generation, who were feeling frustration, and confusion, are getting great relief, and they are joining this movement althoughthe restriction for be- coming initiated in this line are strictly ac- cording to our Vaishnava rituals. Still they are accepting; they do not take meat; they have given up drinking; and all kinds of intoxicants, not even will they take tea and cigarette; they have no illicit sex life, ex- cept in marriage union, and they have given up gambling. So if you want to see, two of my students are there in India, and if you so desire, I can ask them to see you. They are presently in Vrindaban. And you will be pleased to see how they have changed from their old habits to Vaishnava initiation. So I request you again that, kindly continue your cooperation as per your letter dated 11th April, 1966, and oblige. Thanking you in anticipation for an early reply; and please send the books ly- ing with you in your Bombay office. Hope this will find you in good health, Yours very sincerely, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JANUARY 69-1-1 Los Angeles lst January, 1969 Hamburg My Dear Krishna Das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your tow letters December 21 and December 23, 1968. I am very glad to know of your sincere activities in Krishna Consciousness. You are just a child and only by Krishna’s Grace you’ve taken the courage to go to Germany to open a center and work very hard. So I am rather envious of your advancement in Krishna Consciousness because when I was of your age I had no such energy, al- though my father was always educating me in Krishna Consciousness from the very beginning. So I am sure that your ef- forts will be successful. Shivananda is also a very good soul like you and he is sure to help you. I have already written one letter forbidding him to quit Hamburg for New Vrindaban be- cause there is no work for him presently in New Vrindaban due to the winter season. So surely he can work in Hamburg for three months more, and I am glad that he is engaged in temple construction work. Let him do this without any interference. You do not interfere in any of his work. Let him do what he likes and at his own discretion, and you simply respect him as your older brother. I am sure that he will be peaceful there shortly. It may be due to so much bodily trouble that he was be- coming distressed but this has subsided and he will continue to work as usual. I am very pleased to know that the pro- fessor who refused prasad on sectarian grounds was not further disturbed by you. This was very well planned. People in a lower standard of spiritual understanding are generally sectarian, but unless they are so where is our possibility of preach- ing Krishna Consciousness. Our policy is very simple and plain. We invite people to participate in chanting, dancing and eat- ing prasadam. So far as your activities there Iam very much pleased that they are going up to this point and I am asking Jaya givinda to join you as soon as possible. You also try to correspond with him and surely when he comes, you four boys will be quite competent to secure seven local devotees to legalize our society in Ger- many. I have read the translation of your Ger- man leaflet and it appears to be very nice. If there is any possibility of sales, get some copies of Bhagavad Gita As It Is also for selling in Germany. This Krishna Conscious literature is very nicely written and intelligent German people, if they can read, will derive much benefit from it. If Shyamsundar is unavailable to come immediately, dont be sorry because he is engaged in London in greater responsi- bility. They are going to hold an important meeting with important guests in January. I have sent them a tape of a speech, and all six of our London students are very sin- cere workers for Krishna Consciousness. As soon as Shyamsundar will find oppor- tunity, he will come there. For the time being Shivananda can do some prelimi- nary work, and if inthe meantime you re- ceive Srimurtis of Radha and Krishna then you may prepare a throne, possibly with silver plates. When you are ready to 664 Letters from Srila Prabhupada do this I shall give hints on the subject. So thank you again for your letter and you are doing nicely so keep up your strong endeavors. May Krishna bless you. The following is a quote from a letter of Jayagovinda dated Dec. 21, 1968: “I am going to write to Shivananda in Germany requesting them to pay my pas- sage, and in exchange, I will bring them goods as you have outlined, and perhaps some things to sell, and of course I am anxious to contribute to the progress of their center, and perhaps I will find better luck with my visa affairs in Germany which are still troubling me here in India.” I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-2 Los Angeles 4th January, 1969 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived your nice gift of rose petal pre- serves and I thank you very much for this. Also, I have just yesterday received one letter froma boy in Seattle named Charles McCollogh, and he has desired to come here to Los Angeles and receive initiation from me. Please inform me of the situa- tion with this boy so I may reply to his let- ter there after. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-3 Los Angeles 6th January, 1969 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated January 2, 1969 and I have carefully noted the con- tents. You have expressed the desire to be- come an Aryovedic physician but I do not think that this proposal is very good. This science is not so important to us now be- cause in your country there is ample fa- cility for receiving medicines. Besides many of the herbs which are needed for Aryovedic treatment would have to be sent here from India, and this is not very prac- tical. This homeopathic medicine you have mentioned is not genuine and there- fore is a bluff. So the first medicine which you should be concerned with is to chant Hare Krishna and to become increasingly steady in Krishna Consciousness. Study Bhagavad Gita As It Is and Srimad Bha- gawatam and continue to help your god- brothers in developing Krishna Con- sciousness. So develop your preaching abilities in this way, and this will be the most successful and appreciated en- deavor. Regarding the answers which you gave to Bilas Vigrahadas, they were all correct. When you study very carefully all of the literature which is available, especially Bhagavad Gita As It Is, you will have in your grasp answers to all questions that may be put to you. Please encourage the others to read this Bhagavad Gita at least one chapter every day. Please convey my blessings to the oth- ers at your temple. I hope that this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-4 Los Angeles 9th January, 1969 My Dear Paramananda, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 4, 1969 along with your note for Purushot- tam who is here now and will give you his note along with this letter. I understand JANUARY, 1969 665 that you are anxious to goto New Vrinda- ban. I think that it is Krishna’s will that you shall go there and try to develop that nice land because there is so much poten- tial there which can utilize your abilities in being developed. I hope that by now you have received a note from Hyagriva who was staying with me for more than a fortnight. He is now married with Shama Dasi and he has returned back to New Vrindaban. If Kirtanananda Maharaj wel- comes you during the winter months there is no need of waiting for the springtime. I have no objections. The only question is if there is sufficient place to accomodate you during the winter season. Also be sure to consult with Hansadutta to be sure that there will not be too great inconven- ience in your leaving to New Vrindaban. I thank you very much for your grow- ing spiritof K.C. and I pray to Krishna for your future progress in life. Please convey my blessings to the other devotees there. ACB 69-1-5 Los Angeles 9th January, 1969 My Dear Brahmananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated January 4, 1969, and I have carefully noted the contents. One thing that I beg to bring to your notice about the printing of my books. In 1954, I left my home, and for 5 years I lived as Vanaprasta here and there, and then in 1959 I took sannyas. Of course even when I was a householder I was pub- lishing Back To Godhead since 1947. But then my Spiritual Master dictated that I should take to writing book which will be a permanent affair. So after my accep- tance of sannyas I began working on Sri- mad Bhagawatam and when the first canto was finished, with great difficulty I published the first volume in 1962, after leaving my home and after taking sannyas and spending whatever cash money I had with me during the five years of my stay- ing alone. Practically in 1960 I was penni- less. Therefore I had to quickly take to publication of the first volume and after this I got some money just enough to pull on. Inthis way I published the 2nd volume in 1963 and the 3rd volume in 1965. Then I began to think of coming to your coun- try, and somehow or other I was brought here. Now since I have come I am unable to publish the 4th volume of Srimad Bha- gawatam, but with your help and assis- tence, since 1965 this one book only has been published, and I do not know what this Dai Nippon Company is doing. Anyway, I am very much anxious for getting my books published. The manu- scripts which I presently have may be con- verted into eight different books of the same size which I generally publish, (400 pages). But I do not know how I will get them published. Last year when I was in India, I thought that Achyutananda would publish them in India but this boy could not help me in the least, and the net result is that I have lost my typewriter, and Rs 2000 are now in the dark well of Hitsaran. Achyutananda was sent about Rs 1000 plus he has collected a similar amount from the Dalmia Trust Fund. All of this has been lost for nothing. Whatever is done is done. I am now very much serious about printing my books. There may be three sources for their printing. One source is that if the MacMillan Company is interested to pub- lish my books that will be a great relief. I do not mind for the profit concerned. But I want to see them published. Another source is if MacMillan isn’t interested, we can get them printed from Dai Nippon, but the delaying procedure of this com- pany in Japan is not very encouraging. Therefore the next step would be to start 666 Letters from Srila Prabhupada our own press at New Vrindaban, because Hayagriva is ready to start a press there immediately, taking responsibility for the investment. He has told me that he could take a loan from his friend, Dr. Hender- son. In this connection of purchasing a press I sent a list to be filled by the press men of New York telling of the prices of printing machines but there is no re- sponse. So I ask you what to do in this connection. Ultimately, if nothing is done, I shall be obliged to return to India for getting them published there. I hope that by now you have already de- posited the $1,300 in First National City Bank. So far as the profits from the store, you may do with them as you like. The temple needs maintenance and improve- ments, and also the book fund requires much funds. I require to have eight books published and on the price of $6,000 which is charged by Dai Nippon, I will re- quire about $50,000 immediately. Selling or not selling, I want to see these books published. That is my ambition. Regarding keeping my apartment, if you win the court case then keep this apartment until April when I shall arrive in New York, and then we shall decide whether or not to give it up. So far as placing the Radha-Krishna and Lord Jaganath deities in special order to one another, there is no set ruling. Sim- ply make the altar look very attractive. As for the address in India which I would like one copy of Teachings of Lord Chaitanya to be sent, I shall send it after confirma- tion that the books are completed. I hope that you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. So far united shipping corporation is concerned, please let me know if their pre- vious accounts are cleared off nicely. If their dealings are alright you can order them regularly & may open letter of credit. ACB 69-1-6 10th January, 1969 Dear Mrs. Levine, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your nice letter of January 5, 1969, along with your hus- band’s note. Please offer my thanks to him. Regarding your initiation, I do not know whether your husband is also will- ing tobe initiated with you. This first initi- ation can be performed by mailing your beads, but if conveniently you can come to see me with your husband, that would be very nice. Iam so glad to know that you have become so interested in Krishna Consciousness, and it is pleasing to note that you are hearing from Hansadutta and Himavati. They are an ideal pair amongst my disciples. There are many pairs like them and all of them, husbands and wives together, are engaged in the transcenden- tal service of the Lord. Similarly, if I find you and your husband engaged in that way it will be a great pleasure for me. I have come to your country for preaching this Krishna Consciousness movement, and the younger generation especially is now cooperating with me. Similarly your co- operation will be very welcome. Regarding the land available, this is a very good suggestion, and if it is engaged in Krishna’s service that will be a great opportunity for you. We believe that every plot of land belongs to Krishna. The sooner it is engaged in the service of Krishna the better it is for the temporary owner. We come to this material world empty-handed and go away empty- handed. The things which we possess dur- ing our duration of life are first achieved and then let out along with all of our other temporary possessions. Therefore the best use of possessions during our lifetime is to dedicte it to the service of the Lord. The success of human life is condedered JANUARY, 1969 667 when one fully surrenders his life, his wealth, his intelligence and his words for the benefit of the Lord. Thank you once more for your letters. I hope that you and your husband are both well. Your ever well-wisher, 69-1-7 Los Angeles 10th January, 1969 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I have re- ceived one letter from Mr. and Mrs. Levine who I suppose are living in the same building where you are living. It is understood from their letters that they are eager to be initiated. If they are prepared to follow the rules and regulations I think thatthey can be initiated by mail. Soif you recommend you can ask them to send their beads and I shall initiate them. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have replied their letter 69-1-8 Los Angeles 11th January, 1969 My Dear Gargamuni, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 1, 1969 and it is very gratifying to know that Krishna has again engaged you in your own business. When you went to your fa- ther sometimes I was thinking whether I have not spoiled the career of this boy, but still I wanted to give your father a chance so he would not think that two of his boys are lost in the Krishna Consciousness movement. So it was Krishna’s dictation that you went to your father for full coop- eration, but he did not respond. Now you are free. I think that the talent which you have got for doing business will help our cause more than what you could have done at the custody of your father. So I am very glad that now you have a nice store in the new temple and that things are going on fittingly. I have got a report from Purushottam that his mother has seen your store and has very much ap- preciated it. Your presence was very badly needed at the temple to help your brother because Purushottam is here with me, so always do your best for the service of the Lord and be happy. So far as your selling insence is con- cerned, you may be interested to know that I have got connection with one big firm in Bangalore. (The firm is Sree Saibaba Perfumery Works, No. 40, Ist Cross, VI Main Road, Chamarajapet, BANGALORE- 18, INDIA.) I have asked this party to send me samples and quota- tions, and we shall see whether they are favorable to others. It is very encouraging to note that you are receiving nice appreciations for the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and I have seen the two reviews which were sent by Brahmananda. They also appear to be nice, although one is not very favorable. However, this unfavorable review also proclaims that our Bhagavad Gita is dis- tinct from all others. This point we want to advertize. Thank you very much for the sandal- wood and sweet pea oils that you have sent me. I was just thinking of these oils be- cause my stock was just finished, and Krishna has sent it just in time through you. Please ask Brahmananda to send to me a list of the Goudiya Math books which will be arriving in February, so I will then direct as to what shall be done with these books so far as distribution. Also, please keep me posted as to the progress with Dai Nippon. I am enclosing a typed copy of lecture which I recorded and which was played in 668 Letters from Srila Prabhupada London on January 4th during a very suc- cessful meeting they were holding there with many important guests. Please hand over this enclosed copy to Rayarama to be printed in Back To Godhead. I am also en- closing a resolution announcing the pass- ing away of one of my god-brothers and which also should be printed in Back To Godhead. Please convey my blessings to the other devotees. I hope that you are all well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: Please convey my appreciation to Patit Uddharan for his nice letter of Janu- ary 1, 1969, and for his poem which he has sent to me via Rayarama. I have very much appreciated his poetic skills which he has shown in writing this poem, and thus I have requested Rayarama to print it in Back To Godhead as soon as possible. Encourage Patit Uddharan to compose more of such poetries. He is a good boy, and I am pleased that he is doing so nicely. 69-1-9 11th January, 1969 My Dear Shyamsundar, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 7, 1969, and before this I had also received your letter of January 2, 1969, and have noted the contents with great encourage- ment. Although nothing is settled as of yet, I can understand that things are pro- gressing well and as you write in your let- ter under reply, the meeting was very successful, and we shall soon be able to have a nice temple in London. Today I received letters from Guru das and Mukunda, and it is understood that Mr. George Harrison is arranging for a first class temple, better than the one to be had on Baker Street. In the meantime I have received a letter from Petamber Din- dayal in Guyana, and he has invited me to go there. There is an invitation to go to Hawaii also, but above all Iam very much anxious to see a London temple estab- lished first. So please let me know by re- turn mail if there is an immediate chance of my going to London. Then I shall make my program in that way. I do not mind any climatic condition there; I am quite fit, and whenever required, I am prepared to go there. You have mentioned a very en- couraging invitation that my visit there will be the biggest event in London since the time of the Roman Invasion. Actually this will be so. This time there is no ques- tion of invasion, but this time, if England is prepared, they will receive something sublime which they cannot produce in their country, neither in Manchester, Glassgow, nor Edinburg. As I stated in my last letter to you that London is still a lead- ing city of the world, and if Mr. George Harrison cooperates with us, certainly we shall be able to deliver something sublime to the world by joint endeavor. I am so glad that Mr. Harrison is com- posing songs like “‘Lord which we so long ignored”. He is very thoughtful. When we actually meet, I shall be able to give him thoughts about separation from Krishna, and they will be able to compose very attractive songs for public recep- tions. The public is in need of such songs, and if they are administered through nice agents like the Beatles, it will surely be a great success. In your previous letter you advised me that Mr. Harrison has desired to have me live in the house which they are counting to give us because he has many questions to ask me. I am very much pleased to meet persons who put sincere questions in the matter of Krishna Con- sciousness. So it will be a great event if the Beatles try to understand this science of Krishna Consciousness with intelligent JANUARY, 1969 669 questions and try to understand it seri- ously. Anyway, I am expecting your next letter wherein you will mention “‘at last, at last” , as you had mentioned in your let- ter dated January 2, 1969. Please convey my hearty blessings to the others there with you. I hope this finds you all in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-10 Los Angeles 12th January, 1969 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated January 9, 1969. Krishna is pleased upon you so that He is responding to your sin- cere service. In the Bhagavad Gita the Lord says that He responds proportion- ately along with the degree of surrender to Him by the devotee. So the spiritual prog- ress that you are making now is duly being responded to by Krishna. Of course it is the duty of the teacher to instruct his pupil rightly, but to pass the examination with a degree and merit depends upon the student himself. But the teacher is al- ways happy when he sees one of his stu- dents has surpassed the capacity of the teacher also. That is an occasion of great jubilation. Please therefore prose- cute your Hare Krishna vibrations along with your good wife, and certainly Krishna will see that all of your attempts will be successful. I am very glad to note when you write to say that both you and Himavati miss your sleep and go to bed late. By Krishna’s grace, Himavati is not only beautiful externally, but she is beautiful within also. Otherwise how she can say that you may have the license for sense gratification but what will you do with this license? A brahmachary is good for living a life of celibacy, but a person who can live a life of celibacy in the presence of a beautiful and obliging wife is more than a brahmachary. Of course anyone who is stuck up with only one wife is also called brahmachary. You will set a very good ex- ample if both of you agree not to have sense gratification anymore and still you remain as husband and wife together. This is possible, however, only if both of you are fixed up in Krishna Consciousness ac- tivities. I thank you very much for your sincere endeavor to do this activity. Concerning the house, if it is possible to rent it with an option to purchase that will be very nice. My Guru Maharaj in- structed us, especially to me, that it is bet- ter to remain in a rented house than to purchase our own place, but actually He had constructed many temples during His lifetime. The idea is that if things can be done without any extra endeavor, that is all right. If purchasing a house becomes cause of our extra anxiety, we should avoid it. But if by the grace of Krishna it can be easily done, there is no harm of having our own house. Anyway, if this house is suitable for a temple and for pra- sad distribution, we must have it at any cost. You may do as it is best by consulting Krishna. Regarding the examination, you are al- ready a passed student so don’t be afraid of it. When the examination will be held, you will find the questions so easy that within a few minutes you shall be able to answer them all. I wish to introduce this examination system so that in the future our students may not remained uncon- cerned with these books we are publish- ing. These books are not material know- ledge. To a sincere student, all of the contents of these books become revealed from within, even if he has not thoroughly studied them all. Regarding your question, the deity shall be put to rest in time, and if people 670 Letters from Srila Prabhupada are still eating prasadam, the arti cannot be performed. It is better if after offering prasadam to the deity you perform arti, close the curtains and then distribute pra- sadam to the devotees. Please do not ac- cept from Gopal Krishna 6 inch murti. He has promised to donate one pair of 24 inch murtis. Besides that, when you are en- gaged in the worshipment of the temple dei- ties, you may not install separately deities at your home. Tears come down from the eyes of a person who is already elevated in ecstatic love of Krishna. So these are very good signs. I am explaining all of these matters in my next book, Nectar of Devotion. I pray to Krishna for your further and fur- ther progress in this connection. I am pleased to note that you are now accepting outside engagements for kirtan activities. This is an important attempt. Please con- vey my blessings to Kulashekar also. Iam very glad to note that he is back at the tem- ple and painting nicely. I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have duly replied separately Mrs & Mr Levine and hope they have received my letter by this time. I have agreed to ini- tiate them & you can do the needful. ACB 69-1-11 Los Angeles 12th January, 1969 My Dear Kirtanananda, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated December 31, 1968, and I thank you for your good wishes for the new year. Please accept the same from my side. So far as we are concerned, our new year is every day because Krishna belongs to the nitya leela. Nitya leela means that all of His Pastimes are going on in either of the so many universes. It is just like the rising of the sun. In your country the sun is supposed to rise at 6:30 at the present moment, but at any time you can inquire in some part of the world and there it is the same 6:30 and sunrise. While you are in this meridian, in another country it may be 6:30 AM, and the sun is rising. So you have now taken charge of the sunrise of New Vrindaban. Our program is there for constructing seven temples. One Rupanuga Vidyapitha—that is a school for educating brahmins and vaishnavas. We have enough of techno- logical and other types of educational in- stitutions, but perhaps there is none where actual brahmins and vaishnavas are pro- duced. So we will have to establish an educational institution for that purpose. A first examination will be held some- times next January on Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and those passing will have the de- gree of Bhaktishastri. Next year we will hold an examination on Srimad Bhagawa- tam, and the person who passes will have the title Bhaktibaibhava. And the next year we shall hold an examination on Teachings of Lord Chaitanya, Nectar of Devotion and Vedanta Sutra, and those who will successfully pass will be awarded with the title of Bhaktivedanta. By 1975, all of those who have passed all of the above examinations will be specifi- cally empowered to initiate and increase the number of the Krishna Consciousness population. Another important scheme is to start a nice press next spring. So these duties are there in New Vrindaban, and we shall have to live there self independently, sim- ply by raising cows, grains, fruits, and flowers. I have already explained these things to Hayagriva, and he is now mar- ried and a responsible grihasta. You are of course sannyas. Your duties will be more to preach and supervise the activities there. But do everything jointly. Many grihastas and brahmacharies will join you JANUARY, 1969 671 for full cooperation. Some of them have already prepared to go there immediately, and perhaps you have received some let- ters about this. So everything appears very bright in the future. We have to deal with things very sagaciously and success will surely be there. The immediate ne- cessity is to construct some simple cot- tages for living purposes, and then everything will gradually come out, one after another. I hope that you are already in touch with Hayagriva, and he must have spoken to you about these ideas. May Krishna bless you with long life in executing the idea of our New Vrindaban scheme. Thanking you once more. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-12 Los Angeles 13th January, 1969 My Dear Madhavi Lata, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your recent letter (undated) and I have noted the contents. You have tried to explain the reasons for your recent traveling excursions, but there is no need to explain; the reason is that youare restless. I wanted you to con- centrate your mind on painting and utiliz- ing your talents for Krishna’s service, but you do not hear me. Any place that you want to live, that is all right, but why dont you use your talents? That you cannot do, and it is your misfortune. Here are listed some suggestions for you to begin making beautiful paintings with. If you can prose- cute all five of these suggestions without wasting your valuable time it will be very satisfactory. 1. Pregnant Devaki is sitting in a pal- ace room and some glaring effulgence is coming out of her body. Almost near the ceiling of the room, the demigods are sur- rounding her and praying for the Appear- ance of Lord Krishna. Some of the demigods are throwing flowers upon her. 2. Devaki is sitting in a different palace room and Vishnu, with His four hands (conch, club, wheel, lotus), in yellow dress appeared before here. In this scene, Devaki and Vyasadev are bowing down to Lord Vishnu and praying. 3. Krishna is laying happily on the lap of Devaki just like He is an ordinary child. 4. Setting the scene: Vyasadev saw that all of the doors were opened and that the gate-keepers were asleep, so he went outside of the house and came to the bank of the Yamuna. He saw that the river was inflated with rainy season water and he thought, “How shall I cross?” Then he saw ajackel crossing the river and Vyasa- dev realized that the river was shallow and only up to his ankles. So Vyasadev, hold- ing Little Krishna in his arms, follows the jackel across the Yamuna River. This night sceneof walking across theriver and following the jackel is the fourth picture. 5. Across the Yamuna River, Vyasadev came upon the house of Nanda Maharaj, where Yasoda was lying asleep with her little girl baby. The fifth picture is of Vyasadev exchanging babies with the sleeping Yasoda. So when I return to New York, proba- bly sometimes in April, I will be pleased to see these pictures nicely painted. When you have finished with this assignment, please inform me so that I may assign you further. Hope that this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-13 Los Angeles 13th January, 1969 Dear Mrs. Hochner, Please accept my New Year’s greet- ings. Iam so pleased to accept your token 672 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda of good will and the sounding Haribol with needlework. This cloth is so nice that Ihave hung it in my room in front of me so that I can see Haribol and remember you always. Your are very fortunate lady to have such nice daughters like Balai and Leela- suka. Balai is very happy with her hus- band, Advaita, and all of my students who are married couples are doing very nicely and living very happily. Six boys and girls who were married under my superintend- ence are now working in London, and they are making very hopeful adventures. Here in Los Angeles also there is one mar- ried couple, Dayananda and Nandarani, and they also are doing very nicely in im- proving the temple here. Your son-in-law, Advaita das, is being trained up to take charge of our press. Your daughter is a first class typist, so in this way all are fully cooperating with me, and I am happy in your country. My endeavors might be sincere, but without their cooperation I could not have executed my mission so quickly. I thank you once more for your becoming the mother of two devotee girls. Your ever well-wisher, 69-1-14 15th January, 1969 My Dear Dhindro and Vanalata Mullick, Please accept my blessings. I hope by this time you have safely reached your home and everything is going well. When you were here I requested you to connect with me some of your tenants at Natoon Bazar selling brass utensils. I want many pairs of Nabadwip-made kartals, so please introduce to me some of your very reliable tenants, and I shall send you the money for purchase. The supplier should pack it nicely in a gunny bag. We have got our own shipping agents: Msgrs United Shipping Corporation, 14/2 Old China Bazar Street, Room #18, Calcutta-1), and they will take care of the shipping. I have already shown you samples of kartals while you were sitting in my room, and I hope you will help me in this connection. I do not know if you were able to visit our Hawaii, Honolulu temple. Perhaps you were unable. Anyway, I shall be glad to hear from you about your pleasant jour- ney from Los Angeles to Calcutta by Japan. You will be pleased to know that in London, one rich English boy has agreed to donate a house which is worth Rs 800,000 for our temple there. At present, our devotees there are in a rented house, but I think by the next month it will be pos- sible to sit in our own London temple. In this temple I wish to install Radha- Krishna murtis, and if you so desire, you can donate a pair of murtis for installation in London temple. That will be very much glorified for your great forefather, the late Rajairajendra Mullick. Very much appre- ciated would be a pair of murtis of the size and gesture as Sri Sri Radha-Govinda jew of late Kashinath Mullick’s temple. Another request to you is that because you have so kindly come to see me it is my duty to instruct you about your spiritual advancement of life. Both of you are so fortunate to become the servitors of Sri Sri Jagannath Deva, installed by your forefathers. The best thing will be to in- crease your affection for these Jagannath Devas, and as such, you should not eat anything which is not offered to Jagannath Deva. In other words, you should take only the prasadam of Jagannath Deva. This practice will so much help you in your spiritual life. This facility you have got in this life should not be missed. That is my request to both of you. I hope this will meet you in good health. I am await- ing your early reply. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-15 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 My Dear Jadurany, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated January 6, 1969, and I have noted with pleasure that you are almost done with the first five Krishna pictures which I have suggested to you. I think that you may im- mediately send these pictures to me in Los Angeles. So far as photographing these pictures for the book, I think that it is es- sential that these pictures be with bright attractive colors, so please do them in this way. I am enclosing herewith the instruc- tions for the next four paintings. 1. Nanda Maharaj (an old man of not less than 50 years) is observing celebra- tion. Many cowherd boys are coming with milk and curd on a balancing stick on their backs (see enclosed picture). Nanda Ma- haraj, who is the chief amongst the cow- herds men, is giving them presentations of cloth, ornaments, fruits, etc. , and there is feasting going on. Some of them are en- joying by throwing butter upon their friend’s bodies. 2. The demonic Putana Witch has come to Yasoda looking just like a very nice young woman, and congratulating Yasoda for her beautiful Child. She said to Yasoda ‘“You have such nice Baby, kindly let me hold Him.” Yasoda was very simple and allowed this, but when Krishna sucked the witch’s breast the demon showed her true gigantic form which was actually miles long and she died. In the picture, Krishna is playing on the breast of this gigantic dead demon. 3. Krishna was lying underneath a cart which was actually a demon who had taken the shape of a cart so Krishna would not suspect danger. Krishna was lying un- derneath the cart, but then He kicked it while playing, and a great giant came out JANUARY, 1969 673 and died. 4. One asura Trinavarta whilrwind took Baby Krishna into the sky and was fighting with Him. The idea was to take Krishna into the sky and drop Him. But once in the sky, Krishna fought with the whilrwind, and the demon fell down dead while Krishna was lying happily on the ground. Yasoda was praying in thanks that “God has saved my Boy.” Regarding your-question about placing an effulgence around Krishna’s head in all of these pictures, yes this should be done. I hope to be receiving the previous paint- ings youhave done soon. Kindly convey y blessings to all others at Boston temple. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-16 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 My Dear Kanupriya das Brahmachary, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 9, 1969, and I am pleased to send herewith your beads duly chanted upon by me. Your spiritual name is Kanupriya das Brahmachary. Kanu means Krishna, and priya means dear, so Kanupriya means one who is very dear to Krishna. I am so pleased to learn that you have been already receiving some training up from Rupanuga and you are assisting the temple activities along with the others. It is very gratifying to know this, and please continue in this way. Also, you must be certain to chant 16 rounds per day upon your beads. Regarding other yoga exercises, if you take Krishna prasadam you shall keep your body automatically fit for working, so there is no need of extra exercises which are required by persons who may eat more than what is required. So for prosecuting Krishna Consciousness one 674 Letters from Srila Prabhupdda should not eat more than what is needed. One should not endeavor beyond his ca- pacity. One should not talk unnecessarily. One should not stick with some extra regu- lative principles, nor should one assicate with persons who are not in Krishna Con- sciousness. One should not be too much greedy. What one should do is chant the Holy Name of the Lord with faith, enthu- siasm, and firm conviction on the state- ment of Lord Chaitanya that simply by chanting the Maha Mantra one can be gradually elevated to the highest platform of spiritual perfection. Also what is im- portant is to follow the four regulative principles of avoiding all illicit sexual connections, meat-eating, intoxication and gambling. I am sure that Rupanuga will ably guide you in these matters. Try to help in our Krishna Conscious- ness activities, and whenever you feel the necessity of my help you are welcome to address me in letter. Read Bhagavad Gita As It Is very carefully, and we are going to hold an examination next year in January upon this book. I hope that you will be enough expert in this Krishna Conscious- ness science to pass the examination and be awarded with the title of ‘‘Bhaktishas- tri”, one who knows the principles of de- votional service. So think over these matters discussed herein very carefully, and Krishna will help you in all respects. I hope this meets you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-17 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 My Dear Krishna Das, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter dated January 8, 1969, and I have noted the contents carefully. The statue which you have received is not Vishnu Murti. Vishnu Murti is never to be found in fighting spirit with anyone. When the Lord incarnates within this ma- terial world, He does not come in Vishnu Murti. Lord Nrisingadeva although Vishnu Himself, fighting with the demon Hiranyakasipu, although He is Krishna, He is different from Vishnu Murti. So I think that the Murti which you have got is not Vishnu Murti, but it appears to be a Murti of Lord Shiva. Anyway, this Murti is not worshippable by us. In our temple we shall always worship Radha Krishna Murti or Lord Jagannath. If possible, you can sell this Murti to some antique store and get some profit. Regarding the press, it is a very good engagement provided you can work prop- erly on it. But if you purchase such press and there is nobody to work it, it will lie down idle, and that is not good. So if you are serious about working ona press, I ad- vise you to do it immediately. Otherwise you should not waste your time. Regarding Jayagovinda, settle up with him by correspondence. I think that if you send him passage money he will bring in exchange some goods from India. That is not a bad proposal because an exchange is not robbery. Regarding Shivananda, I am glad that he is doing nicely and improving in health. I am sending him herewith one note. I am glad that you have already ordered Bhagavad Gita copies from Brahmananda. Please try to introduce our books and literature as far as possible. Please write to me at least once in a week to inform me about your activities. I hope you will keep in touch with the news from London. They are very encouraging and hopeful. I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami JANUARY, 1969 675 69-1-18 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 My Dear Rupanuga, Please accept my blessings. I was very much anxious to receive your letter since I did not hear from you for a long period. But I always know that you are doing your duty nicely. Recently, Hayagriva came from Columbus, and he remained with me for more than a fortnight. He was as- siting me in editing Srimad Bhagawatam. Now he is married with Shama Dasi and has returned to New Vrindaban with his many responsibilities. I am glad to learn that you have been helping this boy, Kenneth, and he is now eager to be initiated. So, as recommended by you, I have agreed to initiate him and call him Kanupriya das Brahmachary. Please take care of him and give him im- petus to rise more and more in Krishna Consciousness. Regarding the draft problem, I am en- closing a certificate which I have issued to many students, and I think that this will be effective. Within a few days we will have prepared official certificiates for both you and Kanupriya which will certify that you are duly initiated disciples of this Krishna Consciousness movement. Please try to introduce the reading of the Bhagavad Gita As It Is in your univer- sity where you shall be teaching. I under- stand that some rubbish commentaries upon Bhagavad Gita are allowed to be studied in every university, so if you can replace our Bhagavad Gita As It Is it will be a great advancement for our mission- ary activities, and people will thereby be benefitted. Please convey my blessings to all oth- ers in Buffalo temple. I hope this finds you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-19 15th January, 1969 My Dear Shyamsundar Prabhu, Please accept my humble dandabats. I understand from a letter of Upendra Brahmachary in Seattle that you have in- quired about me from him after your re- turn from Vrindaban. I wlcome your suggestion to open a branch of our Iskcon society in Bombay, and you want to help me in this connection. There are two of my disciples in Vrindaban. I do not know if you met them while you were there, and I am awaiting for their letters because one of them was recently advised to go to our German center in Hamburg. Please, therefore, let me know of your sugges- tions how to open a branch of our Iskcon society in Bombay. If it is possible to get a place free of charge for holding kirtan and discussing on the Bhagavad Gita in some quarter where there are mostly English- speaking people, that will be very much convenient. So if you can find out some suitable place for holding English classes along with short kirtans please let me know immediately. While expecting your good suggestions of what to do in this mat- ter I am also thinking of it and will let you know in my next letter. I understand that Sripad Prabhupada das Brahmachary is in correspondence with Upendra das Brahmachary in Seat- tle. May I know who is this brahmachary? If we open a branch in Bombay is he will- ing to join us there? But I am suresome of the brahmacharies from various centers in India will join us if we open a branch in Bombay. Regarding the mridungas, certainly you have already given me some quota- tions but it is better to take fresh quota- tions in your next letter. It is understood that your books are already received in New York, and Brahmananda das Brahmachary is in charge. I shall advise 676 Letters from Srila Prabhupāda him to send you the money soon. Do you think the money order should be sent to your present address? Upon hearing from you I shall do the needful in this matter of sending the money to you. I hope this finds you in good health. Yours affectionately, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-20 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 My Dear Sripad Sraman Maharaj, Please accept my humble dandabats. I thank you very much for your kind letter dated December 31, 1968, I am so much grieved to learn the news of our revered god-brother, Swami Bhakti Sadhak Niskinchan Maharaj, and I am so glad to learn that he passed away in full sense chanting ‘“‘Krishna, Krishna”. This is a glorious death. As it is said in the Srimad Bhagawatam; Ante Narayana Smriti— this is the successful termination of our material existence. We do not know what will happen to us, but there is a Bengali proverb that everything will be tested at the time of death. So it is glorious for Swami Niskinchan Maharaj that he has so gloriously passed away. I see that Sripad Bon Maharaj was present at that time but I do not see any mention of Sripad Tirtha Maharaj’s name. Anyway, we have already held a condolence meeting on this occasion in our Los Angeles temple in the presence of about 100 devotees, and we passed a reso- lution of our aggrievement which will be duly published in our next issue of Back To Godhead. As desired by you your name has been registerd on our mailing list and Back To Godhead will be duly mailed to you. In our resolution we have mentioned about Swami Niskinchan Ma- haraj’s contribution both in English, San- skrit, Hindi and Bengali, and everyone has appreciated this. You will be glad to know that our Lon- don center is working for the last 5 months, and by the Grace of Srila Prabhu- pada, some English man there has agreed to donate a house for our temple there which is worth not less than Rs 800,000. The preaching work in other parts of our activities are going on, especially in Los Angeles, New York, Montreal, Boston, London and Hamburg. We have an invita- tion from Guyana, So. America, as well as from Hawaii where we have.already got our own temple. Back To Godhead is be- ing published both in English and French language and very soon He will appear in the German language. Our disciples in Hamburg are proposing to purchase a printing machine, and they have sent me the news for my approval. So by the Grace of Srila Prabhupad Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati Thakur, His mission in this part of the world is progressing slowly but surely. Your previous letter was duly received by me and was replied to by me, and I hope you have by this time received the same. In both of your letters you have mentioned about grand preparations be- ing made for the celebration of Golden Ju- bilee for Sri Chaitanya Math from 7 February through 6 March. Prior to your information, our god-brother, Y. Jagan- nathan also informed me about this im- pending ceremony but so far as I concerned, I have received no official in- formation from Sripad Tirtha Maharaj. I do not know why. If it is thought however that my preaching work in this part of the world is not connected with Sri Chaitanya Math, I do not think this is correct be- cause I was authorized to do this work by Srila Prabhupada, and I am trying to do my humble bit. [TEXT MISSING] JANUARY, 1969 677 69-1-21 Los Angeles 15th January, 1969 Madam Sumati Morar jee Baisaheba, Please accept my greetings. I hope ev- erything is going well with you. You will be pleased to know that this year two of my books have been published. They are as follows (1) The Bhagavad Gita As It Is Pub- lished by MacMillan Company of New York and London (2) Teachings of Lord Chaitanya Pub- lished by International Society for Krishna Consciousness The first book is already received in stock, and the second is expected next month. I have the greatest pleasure to present to you the first one sending by separate airl mail, and I shall be glad to hear from you how you like it. Yours in the service of the Lord, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-22 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Rayarama, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 10, 1969, and I have noted the contents with care. I am so glad to hear that you were enjoying your visit in Los Angeles last week, and you should know that I was similarly very glad to have you here with me. As you are sick with the flu now, I think it best that you do not exert yourself by working too much strenuously but rather you rest as much as possible until you are feeling better. I have noted with pleasure that Jayagovinda* has sent you a nice Gover- dhan Hill article for printing in Back To Godhead. I have already instructed Jaya- govinda to arrange for going to Hamburg and let us see what will happen with this boy. I have been requested by Janardan in Montreal temple to immediately send him the original manuscript of Bhagavad Gita As It Is, and I think that you are keeping this manuscript in New York so kindly send it to Montreal as soon as possible. Janardan will require this manuscript to translate into the French language for publication, so it is important business, and please do the needful in this connec- tion. Thanking you once more for your let- ter. I hope this finds you improving in your health. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami * I have received one letter from Jay- agovinda which suggests that he and Achyutananda are being poisoned like Hrishikesh. Will you send me the last let- ter of Jayagovinda which you have said is not very good. Will you send it to me? ACB 69-1-23 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Upendra, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of Janu- ary 6, 1969 and your letters of January 10th and 11th, 1969. From your recent letters I can understand that you are keep- ing yourself busily engaged and are im- proving nicely. This is our process, that you do not let even one minute go by with- out doing some sort of service for Krishna. Because as soon as there is a lit- tle gap of Krishna Consciousness, imme- diately maya makes an attack to grab us again. So keep up with your kirtans and outside engagements and always think of Krishna so that maya will not have a sec- ond’s opportunity to try to conquer you. And Krishna gives all assurance that the sincere devotee will never know defeat, so 678 Letters from Srila Prabhupada if you simply try to propagate our move- ment in the Seattle area, you will be suc- cessful, rest assured. Regarding this boy, Charles McCol- lough, if he is able, I think he may come to see me at Los Angeles so I may discusss with him initiation. So you may inform him in this way. So far as your question about evolu- tion, you should know that the aspects of this theory which are actually correct of- fer no contradiction to the Vedic version. This whole topic has been very nicely ex- plained in an article in Back To Godhead, “Evolution, the God That’s Failing”. So I refer you to this article which was in a few issues back. This should clear up your questions. Please offer my blessings to all others there. I hope this finds all of you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-24 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Govinda Dasi, Please accept my blessings. I hope that by now you have received the reply to your letter which you mailed just after your ar- rival in Hawaii. I am very glad to learn that you have now become a very good housewife with your very good husband. It is learned also that you are cooking very nice foodstuffs for him. This is very good. Your husband is very busy now, otherwise I would have asked him to continue the work on Chai- tanya Charitamrita. Now I shall be glad to know what you are doing. Do you propose to manufacture Kartamashi from there? But whatever you do, do it in a program. I hope this will find you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. Have you received any news from Jaygovinda. His latest letter received yes- terday is very disappointing. He has not mentioned about the murtis. Please re- mind him again. He appears to be on the path of Maya. ACB 69-1-25 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Mahapurusha, Please accept my blessings. I was very glad to receive your letter of January 11, 1969. I have received good report that you are selling Back To Godhead very nicely, and similarly you should try to sell our Bhagavad Gita As It Is and always request people to chant Hare Krishna. This will increase your advancement in Krishna Consciousness. So I am very much pleased with your activities there. Every- one of you should always be engaged in your respective duties depending upon Krishna, and things will come automati- cally very nice. Thanking you again for your encouraging letter. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-26 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Goursundar, Please accept my blessings. Thank you very much for your letter of January 10, 1969. In the meantime I have sent one let- ter to Govinda Dasi, and perhaps you have read it. I am glad that there was a nice newspaper reporter, and he is favorabley convinced so do your propaganda work as far as possible combined together. It is very nice that Govinda Dasi is cooking for you and following my instruc- tions. The husband’s duty is to give the wife all protection, even from the material maya, and the wife’s duty is to see to the personal comforts of the husband. In this way the husband and wife in cooperative spirit should execute Krishna Conscious- ness. That is my mission. In your country, practically everyone has no home life. So this Krishna Consciousness movement is giving them home life and the chance to live peacefully with wife and family. Regarding my going to Hawaii, it is not the question that I will have to take with me my present secretary and attendant. I can go alone as you are so anxious to see me, but the most important thing is if my presence there will improve the situation of our movement and temple very nicely. In this case, I am prepared to go alone; it doesn’t matter. But if you think there is no such urgency, I can wait until the rainy season is over. So in any case, do not think that I am delaying to go to Hawaii because you cannot pay for my other assistants. I came to your country alone, and if neces- sary, I can go to Hawaii alone still provid- ing there is urgency. Please continue to keep me informed of your activities and continue to spread kirtan as far as possible. Hope you are well. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 69-1-27 Los Angeles 16th January, 1969 My Dear Hansadutta, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of Janu- ary 12, 1969, and I have carefully noted the contents. I have gone through the description of the various rooms of the house but you JANUARY, 1969 679 have not mentioned if there is suitable space for a temple also. Our present tem- ple in Montreal has very nice space so our first consideration is howto make the tem- ple room nice. So I do not know how this house shall be suitable for all of our pur- poses. It may be very suitable for resi- dence and prasadam distribution, but unless there is nice arrangement for a tem- ple, how will it be possible to rent it? So unless I understand how you intend to ar- range for a nice temple like the one you have presently, a little difference doesn’t matter, I do not know how you can accept such house. I shall be glad to hear further from you about this. Regarding your questions, the inci- dence of Sanatan Goswami and Rupa Go- swami should be taken as follows; Rupa Goswami treated Sanatan Goswami as his Spiritual Master, so therefore to pray to Krishna for serving Krishna or the Spiri- tual Master is very good. Similarly, if the house is very good for serving Krishna it is very good. But if our purpose is for our personal convenience, for that pourpose we shall not pray. But for the convenience of Krishna and the Spiritual Master we should always pray. The absence of the idea of God is not very important, but the sense of loving God is the most important. The cowherd boys and all of the residents of Vrindaban were so much absorbed in love for Krishna that naturally there was absence of the idea of God. Yasoda was so much absorbed in love of Krishna that she did not care to know that He is God. Our whole philosophy is to increase our love for Krishna. Love with awe and venera- tion and love that is spontaneous is differ- ent, but still one has to learn about the greatness of Krishna. To come to the stage of spontaneous love for Krishna is a very high stage, and it is not to be imitated. In our conditioned state of life, we should worship Krishna as God with respect and 680 Letters from Srila Prabhupada veneration. That is the system. The rela- tionship of the Spiritual Master and the disciple is not the same as the relationship with Krishna in Vrindaban. The relation- ship with the Spiritual Master must al- ways be continued with the greatest respect and veneration, without forgetting His exalted position; like father and son. Regarding your question about my Guru Maharaj, I never told anyone that He was one of the eight shaktis. I do not know how you got this news. According to Vaishnava principles, nobody should think or imagine somebody as Krishna, Radharani, or Their associates. Everyone should aspire to follow the footprints of such associates. If somebody thinks that somebody is Radha or Krishna that is not sanctioned by the Vaishnava philosophy. So far as I know, mu Guru Maharaj’s posi- tion was one of the assistants of the man- jaris. For the present, it is better not to discuss on these confidential things of a higher level, but you are always welcome to put your genuine questions for an an- swer. Otherwise, how will you know things as they are? The photographs you sent me appear very nice, but the house photograph is covered with snow. I have seen this house from the outside, and sometimes I was thinking that this is a nice house for a tem- ple. So I shall be glad to hear from you how and when you are going situate a tem- ple in this house. That is the most essen- tial point. Hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami NB: Enclosed is a speech which was de- livered by me by means of tape recorder in a meeting held in London center with many important guests. Please hand it over to Janardan for translation into French and printing in the French edition of Back To Godhead. 69- 1-28 Los Angeles 18th January, 1969 My Dear Shama Dasi, Please accept my blessings. I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of Janu- ary 14, 1969, and I was very glad to hear from you. You have asked me some questions about the functions of sex life in Krishna Consciousness, and the basic principle is that it should be avoided as far as possible. However, if it is unavoidable, then it should be utilized only for begetting Krishna Conscious children. In that case, the husband and wife should chant at least fifty rounds before going to sex. The rec- ommended period is six days after the menstruation period. I am glad to hear that you are helping out in tending the Deities. This is very spiritually beneficial engagement and, along with chanting the required number of rounds of Hare Krishna, Krishna is sure to give you all facilities to perfect your life in full Krishna Consciousness. In this connection, the recipe for the charinamrita is enclosed here by Karti- keya. Please continue to inform me of your progress in remaining at New Vrindaban. I hope this finds you in good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami P.S. I have not heard anything from Haya- griva since he has left. I am anxious to know how far the revision is advanced in the 1st Canto of Srimad Bhagawatam. 69-1-29 Los Angeles 18th January, 1969 My Dear Bhurijana, Please accept my blessings. I am in due receipt of your letter of January 13, 1969 along with the kirtan tapes and JANUARY, 1969 681 pictures of Buffalo temple. I cannot tell you how very much I enjoyed listening to this wonderful tape recording. All of the super-excellent qualities of kirtan were present on this tape and it was thus a great joy to hear it. On this tape Rupanuga has set an example for all house holders be- cause there was singing on this of Hare Krishna by all of his family members. It was all sounding very nicely, and I am go- ing to show this tape to the Samkirtan Party which is here in Los Angeles so they may take example from such nice kirtan. Iam very pleased that you are graduat- ing from college in a few days and are anx- ious to engage your labors in spreading this Krishna Consciousness movement. Also I request you to study carefully the Bhagavad Gita As It Is because there is so much important service that an intelligent boy such as yourself can do in preaching work and spreading our movement around the world. You have very good ex- ample from your god-brother, Rupanuga, and so continue to help him as you are do- ing, and it shall be very successful for you. So thank you again for your nice letter along with the tape. I hope this meets you in very good health. Your ever well-wisher, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami (Continued in Volume II) A i asa Mi A I Gayl tes! ( Age D vty i A AY h Ue iy i pale yi N iM AKA IR A fa ie o 4 hs PN (a 5 EA g ; ai Care Bai SAME at i f H “ he cio Ate ay i SR Se Sea se oye ec Se amram, Se Ap j YG A that: vet ANY Ha jit kts arate? y fat H 3 i" ears! I ee es, GIA ATANA PULA Ly aes HG | ee wi o JA Li ey AAE ; i bat RY io oy “4 i y i RON VARR Hany A AA An} eet
