=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Andrew Tate - Wikipedia]
Tate started practising boxing and other martial arts in 2005, and worked in the television advertising industry to support himself. Tate started his career in Full contact kickboxing and gained recognition after defeating former super cruiserweight British champions Ollie Green and Mo Kargbo which got him ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in the United Kingdom by the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Tate

[Andrew Tate Biography - The Real World Portal]
In November 2008, Tate was ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in Britain by the International Sport Kickboxing Association (ISKA). His breakthrough came in 2009 when he won the British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Championship, marking his entry into the European kickboxing scene.
URL: https://www.therealworldportal.com/about-andrew-tate

[What is Andrew Tate's kickboxing record? A closer look at the former ...]
He debuted his kickboxing career with a defeat to Scott Gibson on 7 April 2007, and in November 2008, ISKA ranked him the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in the UK.
URL: https://www.legit.ng/sports/boxing/1607523-what-andrew-tates-kickboxing-record-a-closer-professional-kickboxer/

[Andrew Tate | Idea Wiki - Fandom]
In November 2008, he was ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in Britain by the International Sport Kickboxing Association (ISKA). In 2009 ...
URL: https://ideas.fandom.com/wiki/Andrew_Tate

[Andrew Tate's Kickboxing Career Explained: Titles, Fights, and Legacy]
In 2008, he was ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in the United Kingdom by the International Sport Kickboxing Association (ISKA). Tate's first major breakthrough came in 2009 when he won the British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Championship in Derby, England, signaling his arrival on the national stage.
URL: https://fanarch.com/blogs/boxing/andrew-tate-s-kickboxing-career-explained-titles-fights-and-legacy


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Andrew Tate - Wikipedia] ---
Emory Andrew Tate III (born 1 December 1986) is an American and British social media personality, businessman, and former professional kickboxer who gained notoriety for promoting various highly controversial positions in the manosphere. His commentary has resulted in his expulsion from various social media platforms and concern that he promotes misogynistic views to his audience. A divisive influencer, Tate has amassed 10.7 million followers on Twitter as of June 2025 and was the third-most googled person in 2023. He has been dubbed the "king of toxic masculinity", has called himself a misogynist, and is politically described as both right-wing and far-right. As of March 2025, Tate is facing six legal investigations—four criminal and two civil—in Romania, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
From 2005, Tate began his kickboxing career in England, winning several kickboxing titles in the late 2000s and early 2010s. In 2016, he appeared on the British reality series Big Brother, but was removed, as he was the suspect in an open rape investigation in the United Kingdom. The investigation was later dropped, but Tate was subject to an extradition request for rape charges in 2024. After his kickboxing career, Tate and his brother, Tristan, began operating a webcam model business, then sold online courses. With his audience from his courses, he became prominent as an internet celebrity promoting a hyper-macho view of masculinity. Tate's courses include Hustler's University, which gained 100,000 subscribers and was later relaunched as The Real World, and the secretive group named The War Room, which the BBC has accused of coercing women into sex work and teaching violence against women. In August 2023, it was estimated that Tate's online ventures generated US$5 million in revenue monthly.
In December 2022, Tate and his brother, Tristan, were arrested in Romania, along with two women. In June 2023, all four were charged with rape, human trafficking, and forming an organised crime group to sexually exploit women. Soon after, accusers reportedly went into hiding after a campaign of online harassment, and the Tate brothers filed a defamation lawsuit, claiming $5 million in damages. In March 2024, British police obtained an arrest warrant for the Tate brothers. In July 2024, a civil case in the UK was brought against the brothers and a third person for alleged tax evasion. In August 2024, Romanian police raided four properties Tate owns and expanded its investigation to include trafficking minors, sex with a minor, money laundering and attempting to influence witnesses. Tate and his brother have denied all charges and allegations. In May 2025, the United Kingdom Crown Prosecution Service brought multiple charges against Tate and his brother Tristan including for rape, actual bodily harm and human trafficking.


--- [Andrew Tate Biography - The Real World Portal] ---
Andrew Tate Biography Emory Andrew Tate III, commonly known as Andrew Tate or “Cobratate“, is a British-American entrepreneur, social media personality, and former professional kickboxer. Born on December 1, 1986, in Washington, D.C., Andrew has carved out a unique space for himself across various fields, gaining recognition for his accomplishments in sports, business, and online influence. Early Life and Family Andrew Tate’s father, Emory Tate Jr., was a distinguished chess player, celebrated for winning the US Armed Forces Championship three times and for his victories over several grandmasters. Andrew’s mother is of English descent, and after his parents’ divorce, she moved the family to Luton, England, where Tate was raised alongside his two younger siblings, including his brother Tristan “Talisman” Tate. Tristan, like Andrew, pursued a career in professional kickboxing and later gained fame on reality television. Kickboxing Career Tate’s journey into kickboxing began in 2005 when he started training in martial arts while supporting himself by working in the television advertising industry. His dedication and natural talent quickly propelled him to the top ranks. In November 2008, Tate was ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in Britain by the International Sport Kickboxing Association (ISKA). His breakthrough came in 2009 when he won the British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Championship, marking his entry into the European kickboxing scene. Known in the ring as “King Cobra”, Tate’s aggressive style and strategic approach earned him a reputation as a formidable opponent. Major Achievements in Kickboxing - 2009: British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Champion - 2011: ISKA World Champion (Defeated Jean-Luc Benoit) - 2013: ISKA World Full-Contact Light Cruiserweight Champion Tate’s success in kickboxing continued with several notable victories. In 2011, he claimed his first ISKA world title by knocking out Jean-Luc Benoit in a thrilling rematch. Although he faced a setback in 2012 when he lost the Enfusion championship to Franci Grajš, Tate was still ranked as the second-best light heavyweight kickboxer in the world at that time. In 2013, Tate secured his second ISKA world title after a grueling 12-round match against Vincent Petitjean. He later avenged a previous loss to Petitjean by winning the ISKA World Full-Contact Light Cruiserweight Championship. Tate’s final defense of his title came in 2014, where he successfully retained his championship against Cyril Vetter and continued to dominate in the Enfusion Live ring. Transition to Business and Online Influence After retiring from professional kickboxing, Andrew Tate shifted his focus to the business world, where he quickly established himself as a savvy entrepreneur. Leveraging his success and public profile, Tate launched several business ventures, most notably The Real World (formerly known as Hustler’s University). This online educational platform offers training in business, personal development, and various digital skills such as copywriting, e-commerce, and artificial intelligence. The Real World platform is designed to equip individuals with the knowledge and tools needed to start and grow successful online businesses. Through his ventures, Tate has created a significant online following, becoming a polarizing figure known for his outspoken views and motivational content. Personal Philosophy and Legacy Andrew Tate, or “Cobratate”, is known for his strong opinions on success, discipline, and self-reliance. He frequently shares his thoughts on social media, aiming to inspire others to take control of their lives and pursue their goals with determination. Andrew’s transition from a world-class athlete to a successful entrepreneur is a testament to his adaptability and drive. His story is one of continuous growth, from the kickboxing ring to the business world, where he continues to make an impact. Conclusion Emory Andrew Tate III, known as “Cobratate”, has built a multifaceted career that spans sports, business, and online influence. His journey is marked by a relentless pursuit of excellence, and his influence continues to grow, inspiring many to follow their own paths to success.


--- [What is Andrew Tate's kickboxing record? A closer look at the former ...] ---
What is Andrew Tate's kickboxing record? A closer look at the former professional kickboxer Andrew Tate is a British-American businessman, media personality, and former professional kickboxer. Some of his main businesses are Tate Media (a digital marketing service company) and Hustlers University (an educational platform). Andrew Tate's kickboxing record and investments earned him massive fame in the global business and sports domains. Andrew Tate began practicing kickboxing in 2005, gained his first championship in 2009, and won four titles across two weight classes in ISKA kickboxing before quitting the sport in 2020. He became a global sensation in 2016 after appearing on the British reality show Big Brother on Channel 5. Besides being a reality show star and a former kickboxer, many know Andrew Tate as one of the most controversial social media personalities. Profile summary Full name | Emory Andrew Tate III | Nickname | Top G | Date of birth | 14 December 1986 | Age | 36 (as of 2023) | Place of birth | Washington DC, United States | Nationality | British-American | Education | Luxton Sixth Form College | Profession | Kickboxer, Businessman | Eye color | Brown | Hair color | Brown | Height | 1.95 m (6' 4") | Weight | 90 kg | Parents | Eileen (mum) and Emory Tate (dad) | Brother | Tristan | Sister | Janine | Net worth | $365 million | What is Andrew Tate's age? Emory Andrew Tate III is 36 years old (as of November 2023). The former kickboxer was on 14 December 1986 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington DC, United States. He spent part of his childhood in the US before relocating with his mum to England. Who are Andrew Tate's parents? Andrew Tate's English mother, Eileen, worked as a catering assistant, while his African-American father father, Emory Tate (1958–2015), was an international chess master. He won five United States Armed Forces chess championships. Andrew and his siblings grew up in Chicago, Illinois, and Goshen, Indiana. After their parents' divorce, they moved to England with their mother. Who is Andrew Tate's brother? His brother, Tristan, was born on 15 July 1988 and is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and former kickboxer. Tristan Tate had a successful kickboxing career in the mid-2000s and early 2010s. He won the European championship around that time. Today, he is a businessman running his luxury car rental business, Tate Cars. The company offers a range of high-end vehicles for rent, including Lamborghini, Ferraris, and Rolls-Royces. Who is Andrew Tate's sister now? His sister, Janine Tate (born in 1992), is a famous British lawyer and public figure. She resides in Lexington, Kentucky, with her spouse, Norman Webb (a nutritionist and bodybuilder). Is Andrew Tate educated? He obtained his early education in a local school in Washington and went to Halyard High School and Luton Sixth Form College in Bedfordshire, England. Kickboxing career While working in the TV advertising industry, Tate began to practice kickboxing, boxing, and other martial arts in 2005. He debuted his kickboxing career with a defeat to Scott Gibson on 7 April 2007, and in November 2008, ISKA ranked him the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in the UK. The athlete won his first championship - the British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Championship - in 2009. Eventually, Andrew was ranked No. 1 in his division in Europe. In 2011, he won his first ISKA world title in a rematch against Jean-Luc Benoit via knockout. On top of this, Tate was ranked the second-best light-heavyweight kickboxer in the world before losing the Enfusion championship tournament to Franci Grajš in 2012. Was Andrew Tate a kickboxing world champion? He won his second ISKA world title in a 12-round match against Vincent Petitjean in 2013, making him the world champion in two weight divisions. The former MMA fighter's final kickboxing match was in December 2020, where he won against Cosmin Lingurar in a second-round TKO (Technical Knock Out). Here is a list of some of Tate's kickboxing achievements: - 2014 - Enfusion Live World Champion (90 kg) - 2013 - ISKA World Full-Contact Light Cruiserweight Champion (84.6 kg) - 2012 - Enfusion: Trial of the Gladiators Tournament Runner-Up - 2011 - ISKA World Full-Contact Light Heavyweight Champion (81.5 kg) - 2009 - IKF British Cruiserweight Champion (84.5 kg) - 2009 - ISKA English Full-Contact Cruiserweight Champion What is Andrew Tate's kickboxing record? Andrew Tate's fight record in kickboxing (76 wins in 87 fights) is among the best the world has witnessed. How many kickboxing matches has Andrew Tate lost? Andrew Tate's kickboxing record for wins and losses is 76 bouts won (23 by knockouts) and nine losses. Henry Cejudo called out this record on YouTube, claiming it was ridiculous for Tate to fight an amateur like Cosmic Lingurar, who is 3-2 or 2-3. What was Andrew Tate's fight record of all time? One of his famous victories was against Wendell Roche on 28 June 2014. He was the second fighter to beat Roche in his 200-fight career and win the Enfusion Live 90 kg championship. How much money did Andrew Tate make from kickboxing? Tate would earn around $100,000 per fight as a kickboxer. After retiring from the sport, he ventured into entrepreneurship and online businesses. Reality show career Andrew Tate appeared on the British reality show Big Brother in 2016 during its seventeenth series. What happened with Andrew Tate in Big Brother? Tate was ousted from the show after seven days when a video of him whipping a woman with a belt and slapping her in the face surfaced online. Although Andrew later maintained that the video showed a consensual act, the show's producers had to remove him when they learned that he was facing sexual assault charges. Andrew Tate's podcast He often talked about money, education, and relationships in his podcasts. The last new content was uploaded on the Tate Speech podcast in August 2022. Is Andrew Tate a billionaire? Andrew Tate's net worth is around $365 million. His fortune comes from his former kickboxing career and current business investments. He made so much money by the time he quit the sport in 2020. Andrew Tate's record in kickboxing included the four championships he won across two weight classes in ISKA kickboxing. Additionally, he reportedly has over 12 businesses operating in around 30 countries. What business does Andrew Tate have? He is the founder and owner of Hustler's University, which has more than 168,000 students, each paying $49.99 monthly. Meanwhile, his advertising company, Tate Media, also offers courses and coaching programs on fitness, online businesses like cryptocurrency, and personal development. Is Andrew Tate richer than Ronaldo? Tate is one of the world's wealthiest boxing sportsmen but is not richer than Cristiano Ronaldo. The Portuguese footballer's net worth is around $500 million, while Tate has about $365 million. In 2020, Cristiano became the first active athlete to surpass $1 billion in career earnings alone. How much is Andrew Tate's Bugatti? His Bugatti Chiron goes for around $4.3 million and is the most expensive car in his collection. Andrew Tate's car collection The former fighter owns several luxurious cars, including a Bugatti, Rolls-Royce, McLaren, Lamborghini, and Aston Martin. The vehicles cost around $6.3 million in total. Below are the estimated values of some of Tate's cars: Car | Cost | Bugatti Chiron Pur Sport | $4.3 million | Ferrari 812 Superfast | $378,900 | Aston Martin DBS Superleggera | $315,800 | McLaren 720S | $271,600 | Lamborghini Huracan Spyder | $252,600 | Mercedes-AMG S63 Coupe | $164,200 | Is Andrew Tate married? He is not married but has dated several women. One famous Andrew Tate quote on women is: I'd never get married, no. I don't see the tactical advantage to getting married. If I decided to be loyal to a woman and be with her forever, that's fine. If I decided to have children with a woman, that's fine. If I decided to have a house with a woman and live with her. Sure possible, it's not optimal. How many children does Andrew Tate have? In a YouTube interview with Adin Ross, Tate claimed he had around 10 to 12 kids. While speaking about his children and their moms, he said: They all adore me. They see me as their hero, and the women who have my children see me as a hero. Everybody close to me respects me, and nobody has ever said that what I am doing is detrimental to the boys or the girls. Andrew Tate's arrests and court cases In 2017, Andrew Tate and his brother/business partner, Tristan, moved from the United Kingdom to Romania. In December 2022, Romanian authorities detained the Tate brothers for suspected sexual offenses, human trafficking, and forming a criminal gang. Four of the seven women suing Andrew over alleged sexual assault offenses claim he committed the crimes between 2013 and 2016 while still living in the UK. What did Andrew Tate do with his brother? It is believed the Tate brothers lured their sexual assault victims by seducing and falsely claiming they wanted marriage or a relationship. On 31 March 2023, the brothers were released from prison and placed under house arrest as the investigations continued. Their lawyer sister, Janine, distanced herself from them because they were not on good terms with her. Where is Andrew Tate now? Andrew Tate, his brother, Tristan, and two Romanian female accomplices were released from house arrest in Romania and put under judicial control for 60 days (from 4 August 2023 to 2 October 2023) ahead of their trial on charges of human trafficking and sexual violations. Romanian prosecutors accuse the four of sexual exploitation against seven women by coercing them to work for a webcam business at the Tates' residence in Bucharest, UK. Others were lured to Romania. What religion is Tate? Tate was raised a Christian and later converted to Islam. Andrew Tate's height and weight He is 1.95 m (6' 4") and weighs around 90 kg. Facts about Andrew Tate - His kickboxing fans baptized him the "King Cobra" nickname. - He is of mixed ethnicity (British & African-American) and has dual citizenship (British and American). - He has been banned on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, X (Twitter), and YouTube. Court cases have overshadowed Andrew Tate's kickboxing record, business investments, and other career achievements. Many do not even know he was once a great fighter because the world is focused on knowing his fate in court. Legit also featured the story of KSI, one of the biggest YouTubers on the platform. He is also a rapper and has recently indulged in boxing. KSI is the co-founder of Prime, an energy drink company, in collaboration with Logan Paul, and he is worth millions of dollars. KSI's worth and fame skyrocketed in 2023. He also has millions of followers worldwide. Learn more about him. Source: Legit.ng


--- [Andrew Tate | Idea Wiki - Fandom] ---
| WARNING: This article is a non-fanon page. Non-fanon means it is not fanmade. Fanon information is allowed only in individual paragraphs with words "Idea Wiki" and/or "Fanon" in them. | Emory Andrew Tate III (born December 1, 1986) is a British and American social media personality, businessman, and former professional kickboxer. Tate began practicing kickboxing in 2005 and gained his first championship in 2009. He attracted wider attention in 2016, when he appeared on the British reality show Big Brother and was removed after his comments on social media attracted controversy. He began offering paid courses and memberships through his website and rose to fame as an internet celebrity, promoting an "ultra-masculine, ultra-luxurious lifestyle". Tate's misogynistic commentary has resulted in his suspension from several social media platforms. On December 29, 2022, Andrew and his brother Tristan were arrested in Romania along with two women; all four are suspected of human trafficking and forming an organized crime group. Romanian police allege that the group coerced victims into creating paid pornography for social media. On March 31, all four were moved to house arrest while the investigation continues. No indictment has yet been filed, and prosecutors have said that they have until late June to send the case to trial. Early life[] Emory Andrew Tate III was born on December 1, 1986, in Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. He is mixed-race. His African American father Emory Tate was a chess international master and his English mother worked as a catering assistant. He has a younger brother, Tristan. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois and Goshen, Indiana. After his parents divorced, his mother took both brothers to England. Tate was raised in the Christian faith. Kickboxing career[] Tate started practicing boxing and other martial arts in 2005, and worked in the TV advertising industry to support himself. In November 2008, he was ranked the seventh-best light heavyweight kickboxer in Britain by the International Sport Kickboxing Association (ISKA). In 2009, he gained his first championship when he won the British ISKA Full Contact Cruiserweight Championship in Derby, and was ranked number one in his division in Europe. Tate's kickboxing nickname was "King Cobra". In 2011, Tate won his first ISKA world title in a rematch against Jean-Luc Benoit via knockout, having previously lost to Benoit by decision. In 2012, Tate lost the Enfusion championship tournament to Franci Grajš. Before his loss, he was ranked second-best light-heavyweight kickboxer in the world. In 2013, Tate won his second ISKA world title in a 12-round match against Vincent Petitjean, making him world champion in two weight divisions. Big Brother[] Tate came to public attention in 2016 when he appeared on the British reality show Big Brother, during its seventeenth series. While appearing on the show, he came under scrutiny for having made homophobic and racist comments on Twitter. He was removed from the show after six days, with producers citing a video apparently showing him hitting a woman with a belt. Tate and the woman said that they were friends and that the actions in the video were consensual. Vice later reported that the removal was caused by an ongoing police investigation, closed in 2019 with no charges filed. Online ventures[] Tate's website offers training courses on accumulating wealth and "male–female interactions". According to the website, he also operated a webcam studio using his girlfriends as employees. Tate and his brother Tristan started the webcam business, employing as many as 75 webcam models to sell "fake sob stories" to male callers, claiming to have made millions of dollars doing so. He later said that the business model was a "total scam". Tate operated Hustler's University, a platform where members paid a $49.99 monthly membership fee to receive instruction on ways to make money outside traditional employment, such as cryptocurrency, copywriting, and e-commerce, which was facilitated by pre-recorded videos and a Discord server. The website employed an affiliate marketing program, where members received a commission for recruiting others to the platform. Tate became highly prominent in 2022 by encouraging members of Hustler's University to post large numbers of videos of him to social media platforms in an effort to maximize engagement. As of August 2022, its website had amassed over 100,000 subscribers. That same month, the Irish-American financial services company Stripe pulled out of processing subscriptions for the platform, and Hustler's University shut down its affiliate marketing program. Paul Harrigan, a marketing professor at the University of Western Australia, stated the affiliate program constituted a social media pyramid scheme. After Hustler's University was shut down, Tate launched a rebranded version of the program called "The Real World" in October 2022. Tate also operates a private network called "The War Room" which is advertised as a "global network in which exemplars of individualism work to free the modern man from socially induced incarceration." Social media[] Tate received attention for his tweets describing his view of what qualifies as sexual harassment amid the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse cases and for tweeting several statements about his view that sexual assault victims share responsibility for their assaults. In 2017, he was criticized for tweeting that depression "isn't real". Tate self-identifies as a libertarian. He initially became known among online far-right circles through his appearances on InfoWars and acquaintances with far-right figures such as Mike Cernovich, Jack Posobiec, and Paul Joseph Watson. He became widely known in mid-2022 and was searched on Google more times than both Donald Trump and COVID-19 that July. In an interview, he described himself: You can't slander me because I will state right now that I am absolutely sexist and I'm absolutely a misogynist, and I have fuck you money and you can't take that away. He has stated that women "belong in the home", that they "can't drive", and that they are "given to the man and belong to the man", as well as claiming that men prefer dating 18-year-olds and 19-year-olds because they are "likely to have had sex with fewer men", and that girls who do not stay at home are "hoes". The White Ribbon Campaign, a nonprofit organisation opposing male-on-female violence, has called Tate's commentary "extremely misogynistic" and its possible long-term effects on his young male audience "concerning". Hope not Hate, an anti-extremism advocacy group, has commented that Tate's social media presence might present a "dangerous slip road into the far-right" for his audience. In response to criticism, Tate stated that his content includes "many videos praising women" and mainly aims at teaching his audience to avoid "toxic and low value people as a whole". He further stated that he plays a "comedic character" and said that people believed "absolutely false narratives" about him. In November 2022, after the acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk, Tate's Twitter account was unbanned. In December 2022, Tate addressed the environmentalist Greta Thunberg in a tweet extolling his carbon-emitting automobiles and asked for her email address to give her more information. Thunberg replied with the fake email address "smalldickenergy@getalife.com". The exchange received substantial attention on Twitter, with Thunberg's retort quickly becoming one of the most-liked tweets ever. According to the Guardian in February 2023, Tate is popular among British teenage boys, who mimic his phrases and philosophies. The Guardian reported that "virtually every parent in Britain" had heard of him, and parents and schoolteachers expressed concern that he was influencing boys to exhibit misogynistic and aggressive behavior. A 2023 survey conducted by Hope not Hate found that eight in ten British boys aged 16—17 had consumed Tate's content. 45% of British men aged 16—24 had a positive view of him, compared to 1% of British women aged 16—17. Bans[] Three of Tate's Twitter accounts have been suspended at different times. In 2021, an account that he created to evade his previous ban was verified by Twitter, contrary to their policies. The account was subsequently permanently banned, and Twitter said the verification occurred in error. In August 2022, following an online campaign to deplatform him, Tate was permanently banned from Facebook and Instagram, losing 4.7 million followers from the latter. Parent company Meta claimed he had violated their policy on "dangerous organizations and individuals". TikTok, where videos featuring Tate's name as a hashtag have been viewed over 13 billion times, also removed his account after determining that it violated their policies on "content that attacks, threatens, incites violence against, or otherwise dehumanizes an individual or a group". Shortly thereafter, YouTube also suspended his channel, citing multiple violations, including hate speech and COVID-19 misinformation, and he later deleted his own Twitch channel. Tate responded to the bans by saying that, while most of his comments were taken out of context, he took responsibility for how they were received. Media personality Jake Paul denounced Tate's sexism, but criticized the bans as censorship. Tate's content continued to circulate on Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok after the bans via fan accounts. Following the bans, Tate moved to alt-tech platforms Gettr and Rumble, making the latter briefly become the most downloaded app on the App Store. Personal life[] In 2017, Tate moved from the United Kingdom to Romania. He said that he moved because he liked "living in countries where corruption is accessible for everybody" and believed that it would be less likely to face rape charges in Romania, stating that Romanian police would ask women reporting rapes for "evidence" or "CCTV proof", whereas in the Western world, amid the MeToo movement, Tate said that any woman "at any point in the future can destroy your life." Tate was raised Christian, and later became an atheist. By early 2022, he identified as a Christian again, and said that he tithed £16,000 to the Romanian Orthodox Church on a monthly basis. After a video of him praying at a mosque in Dubai went viral in October 2022, he announced on his Gettr account that he had converted to Islam. On March 4, 2023, while incarcerated in Romania, Tate's legal team stated "he has a dark spot on his lung, most likely a tumour" following a medical consultation in Dubai, sparking online rumors related to whether he has lung cancer. On March 5, Tate denied on Twitter that he had cancer. Criminal investigations[] 2015-2019 British investigation[] In January 2023, VICE News reported that Tate had been accused by two women of rape, and by another of repeated strangulation, which Tate denied. In 2019, after a four-year investigation, the Crown Prosecution Service declined to file charges for any of the allegations, stating that the evidence "did not meet our legal test, and there was no realistic prospect of a conviction", and that "it would be wrong to say there was just one issue" with the evidence. The three women have commented that the case was mishandled, with the police apologising for delays in the investigation, while according to Tate, the police "found [exculpatory] messages from the girls' phones". 2022-present Romanian investigation[] On April 11, 2022, a man called the U.S. embassy to report that his former girlfriend, an American citizen, was being held captive in the Tate brothers' home in Pipera, Romania. The Romanian police raided the home, and a nearby webcam studio belonging to the Tates, where they discovered four women. Two of them, the American and another Romanian woman, told the police they were being held against their will, sparking an in-rem investigation into human trafficking and rape by DIICOT, the Romanian anti-organized crime agency. The two brothers were interrogated and released. At the time, they were heard as witnesses rather than suspects. On December 29, 2022, the police arrested both Tate brothers and two women. All four are suspected of human trafficking and forming an organized crime group, and one of them (unidentified due to Romanian law) is suspected of rape. DIICOT accuses the Tates of having recruited women through the "loverboy" method — which consists of misrepresenting one's intention to commit to a romantic relationship — and having forced them to create explicit content for websites like OnlyFans, as part of an organized crime group the Tates allegedly formed in early 2021. DIICOT identified six potential victims. Social media rumors attributed Andrew Tate's arrest to pizza boxes shown in his response video to Greta Thunberg, which Romanian authorities denied. After an initial 24-hour pre-trial detention, the judge prolonged their detention by 30 days. The Tates appealed the extension, but the appeal was rejected on January 10. Under Romanian law, it can be prolonged for a maximum of 180 days. Romanian authorities seized 29 assets, including 15 cars and more than 10 properties, as well as watches and sums of money, that belonged to the Tate brothers or their companies, totaling to almost $4 million. If they are convicted, these assets will be forfeited to the state and used to pay civil and moral damages to any victims. As of January 5, two potential victims had joined the case as civil parties and filed statements against the suspects. On January 14, the cars at the Tates' home were transported to a storage location. On January 7, one of the Tate's lawyers said that the defense team had still not obtained a copy of the evidence presented by the prosecution to the judge. The lawyer also said that the Tate brothers had not been given an accurate translation during their hearing for the 30-day extension. He requested the opportunity to confront the accusers in court, and said that some of the six potential victims identified by DIICOT had not filed a complaint against the suspects. Andrew Tate briefly went to the hospital for a check-up before being returned to custody. Two women who have lived with the Tate brothers have publicly defended them, and two more, who are part of the six alleged victims identified by DIICOT, have denied that they were victimized. On January 20, a Romanian court extended the brothers' pre-trial detention until February 27; the court's reasoning was based on a desire to safeguard the investigation, and avoid the Tates leaving the country. On January 25, while being taken for questioning at Romania's organized crime unit, Andrew said the case against him was "empty" and told reporters that "they know we have done nothing wrong". On February 1, he appealed the decision to extend his detention. The appeal was rejected by the Bucharest Court of Appeal. That same day, Tina Glandian, an attorney who has previously represented Chris Brown and Mike Tyson, was added to the legal team. She released a public statement alleging that the situation constituted a "violation of international human rights". Witnesses and accusers were targeted in an online harassment campaign. In February 2023, the legal team for the Tate brothers confirmed that a cease and desist letter was sent to one of the accusers in December 2022, threatening to sue her and her parents for $300 million over defamatory statements. Prosecutors obtained alleged wiretaps of phone calls made by Tate to two associates, instructing them to lobby two Romanian right-wing politicians, George Simion and Diana Iovanovici Șoșoacă, to support his release. On February 21, a Romanian court once again extended their period of detention by another 30 days. On March 14, Tate was denied bail for a third time. The Tate brothers' detention period was then extended to the end of April. On March 29, a request for bail was once again denied by a Bucharest court. On March 31, the Bucharest Court of Appeal overturned the lower court's decision and ended the Tate brothers' pre-trial detention, instead placing them into house arrest, effective until April 29. Prosecutors have said that they have until late June to send the case to trial.


--- [Andrew Tate's Kickboxing Career Explained: Titles, Fights, and Legacy] ---
No content
