=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jim Bakker - Wikipedia]
While under TBN, the Bakkers moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, where in May 1973 they launched an east coast version of Praise The Lord under TBN's umbrella. Less than a year later the Bakkers formed their own non profit organization, registered the PTL trademark, left the umbrella of TBN and the Crouches, and continued their show on 36 WRET ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Bakker

[Jim Bakker - Christianpedia]
While under TBN, the Bakkers moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, where in May of 1973 they launched an east coast version of Praise The Lord under TBN's umbrella.
URL: https://christianpedia.com/index.php?title=Jim_Bakker

[Jim Bakker Explained]
While under TBN, the Bakkers moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, where in May of 1973 they launched an east coast version of Praise The Lord under TBN's umbrella.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Jim_and_Tammy_Faye_Ministries/

[Jim Bakker - Wikiwand]
While under TBN, the Bakkers moved to Charlotte, North Carolina, where in May 1973 they launched an east coast version of Praise The Lord under TBN's umbrella. Less than a year later the Bakkers formed their own non profit organization, registered the PTL trademark, left the umbrella of TBN and the Crouches, and continued their show on 36 WRET ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/The_Jim_Bakker_Show

[The Jim and Tammy Bakker Story - Postcard History]
Feb 18, 2021 · My career with the Charlotte (North Carolina) Chamber of Commerce began in 1976, the year Jim and Tammy Bakker moved their PTL (Praise the Lord) Club to Charlotte. Within little time, the Bakkers were receiving national attention and by 1978, the Bakkers created a satellite television network to distribute their programming.
URL: https://postcardhistory.net/2021/02/the-jim-and-tammy-bakker-story/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jim Bakker - Wikipedia] ---
James Orsen Bakker (; born January 2, 1940) is an American televangelist and convicted felon. Between 1974 and 1987, Bakker hosted the television program The PTL Club and its cable television platform, the PTL Satellite Network, with his then wife, Tammy Faye. He also developed Heritage USA, a now-defunct Christian theme park in Fort Mill, South Carolina.
Bakker was born in Muskegon, Michigan, and attended North Central University in Minneapolis, where he met Tammy Faye LaValley. The two married in 1961, left college, and became itinerant evangelists, eventually having two children. In the late 1980s, Bakker resigned from the PTL ministry over a cover-up of hush money to church secretary Jessica Hahn for an alleged rape. Subsequent revelations of accounting fraud brought about felony charges, conviction, imprisonment. Convicted of fraud and conspiracy in 1989, he served nearly five years in prison before being paroled in 1994. Bakker later remarried and returned to televangelism, founding Morningside Church in Blue Eye, Missouri, and reestablishing the PTL ministry.
After divorcing Tammy Faye in 1992, Bakker married Lori Beth Graham in 1998, and together they adopted five children. Early in his career, Bakker worked at Pat Robertson’s Christian Broadcasting Network, helping to grow the network and hosting shows including The 700 Club and a children’s program. He later co-founded the Trinity Broadcasting Network with Paul and Jan Crouch, but left after a short partnership due to disagreements, eventually establishing his own ministry, PTL (Praise The Lord), and the PTL Satellite Network.
Returning to televangelism in 2003, Bakker now hosts The Jim Bakker Show with a focus on apocalyptic themes and survivalist products, while distancing himself from his earlier prosperity gospel teachings. His later years have included controversial claims, such as predicting major events and promoting unproven supplements, which drew legal action and criticism during the COVID-19 pandemic. Bakker has written several books, including I Was Wrong and Time Has Come: How to Prepare Now for Epic Events Ahead.


--- [Jim Bakker - Christianpedia] ---
No content


--- [Jim Bakker Explained] ---
No content


--- [Jim Bakker - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [The Jim and Tammy Bakker Story - Postcard History] ---
My career with the Charlotte (North Carolina) Chamber of Commerce began in 1976, the year Jim and Tammy Bakker moved their PTL (Praise the Lord) Club to Charlotte. Within little time, the Bakkers were receiving national attention and by 1978, the Bakkers created a satellite television network to distribute their programming. To fund their enterprises, they created “PTL Club Partners.” The partners were heavy donors to the Bakkers, and with every request for money, the cash just flowed in. People would send mink coats, diamond rings, deeds, all sorts of donations. There was even a special cash office to handle it all. The money from the satellite network allowed the Bakkers to purchase 2,300 acres of land for a new venture. Jim had a fondness for Disneyland and felt he could build a Christian theme park of his own. He called it, “Heritage USA.” As the money flowed into the cash office, Heritage USA was planned, financed, and built in Fort Mill, South Carolina. Shortly after, the site became the headquarters of the theme park and the PTL Club. Bakker asked his followers to give $1,000 for a lifetime partnership in Heritage USA. A donation would entitle you to an annual three-night stay in the Heritage Grand Hotel. He sold more than 66,000 lifetime partnerships which amounted to more than 100 percent occupancy at the hotel. The Grand Hotel and PTL Partner Center The entrance to the hotel By this time, the Bakkers were living a royal life-style. They owned several homes, a private jet, two Rolls Royces and a Mercedes Benz, and even an air-conditioned doghouse. Tammy Faye Bakker and her friends could be found shopping at local flea markets running wildly with their walkie-talkies and a buggy full of goods. She loved shopping at discount clothing stores and had closets full of clothes still with tags on them. Bakker did not do it on his own; Tammy was very much a key player in the television production. She could sing and cry with the best of performers. Barn and Broadcast Studio at Heritage USA Lobby of the Broadcast Center By the mid-1980s, PTL was broadcasting 24 hours a day. The theme park was twenty times larger than Disney World’s Magic Kingdom in Florida. Included in the attractions were Billy Graham’s boyhood home which had been moved there from Charlotte, a Jerusalem style marketplace, and a passion play portraying the life and death of Jesus Christ. Heritage USA became the third most visited theme park in America. In 1987, two scandals brought down the ministry. Bakker was accused of sexual misconduct by a church secretary and misuse of church funds. Bakker resigned and turned the ministry over to Jerry Falwell who found the ministry was bleeding over $2 million a week. Falwell had the good sense to close it. After a 16-month federal grand jury probe, Bakker was indicted in 1988 on eight counts of mail fraud, 15 counts of wire fraud, and one count of conspiracy. A five week trial in 1989 found him guilty. He was sentenced to 45 years in jail and fined one-half million dollars. His sentence was later reduced to eight years of which he served five. His parole attorney guaranteed that if parole were granted, Bakker would never again engage in religion and commerce. Bakker was released from federal prison on December 1, 1994, owing $6 million to the IRS. In 2003, Bakker began broadcasting the Jim Bakker Show in Branson, Missouri. The show has a millennial, survivalist focus where he sells buckets of dried food to his Doomsday followers. Postscript: Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker divorced in 1997. She re-married, but died of cancer in 2007. Jim Bakker, at age 81 continues his televangelism and his current antics are defended by his second wife, Lori.
