=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia]
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist, birth name Elisabeth Charlotte Rist (born 21 June 1962 in Grabs) is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. [2] Her work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body. Rist's work is known for its multi-sensory qualities, with overlapping projected imagery that is ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipilotti_Rist

[5 Fast Facts: Pipilotti Rist | Broad Strokes Blog | National ...]
Born Elisabeth Rist, the artist has gone by “Pipilotti” ever since 1982, when she began art school at the University of Applied Arts Vienna in Austria. The moniker comes from a portmanteau of her childhood nickname “Lotti” and the playful, brave children’s book character Pippi Longstocking, created by Swedish writer Astrid Lindgren. “Pippi Longstoc...
URL: https://nmwa.org/blog/5-fast-facts/5-fast-facts-pipilotti-rist/

[Pipilotti Rist | Biography, Video Art, Ever Is Over All, Beyonce, Pixel ...]
Pipilotti Rist, Swiss video installation artist known for her provocative, often humorous, but always stylish work. Her most famous pieces included I’m Not the Girl Who Misses Much (1986) and Ever Is Over All (1997), which later inspired a Beyonce video.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Pipilotti-Rist

[Pixel Forest by Pipilotti Rist - Kvadrat]
Pipilotti Rist Pipilotti Rist was born in 1962 in Grabs, Switzerland. She lives and works in Zürich. The artist was called Lotti (her full name is Elisabeth Charlotte) and added Pipi to Lotti the day she started in 1982 at the Universität für angewandte Kunst in Vienna, where she studied graphic design and animation and began making Super-8 ...
URL: https://www.kvadrat.dk/en/collaborations/pixel-forest-by-pipilotti-rist

[11 Facts About Pipilotti Rist - FactSnippet]
3. Pipilotti Rist was born Elisabeth Charlotte Rist in Grabs, Switzerland, in the Rhine Valley. 4. Pipilotti Rist's father was a doctor and her mother a teacher. 5. Pipilotti Rist started going by "Pipilotti", a combination of her childhood nickname "Lotti" and her childhood hero, Astrid Lindgren's character Pippi Longstocking, in 1982. 6.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-pipilotti-rist.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia] ---
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist, birth name Elisabeth Charlotte Rist (born 21 June 1962 in Grabs) is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. Her work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body.
Rist's work is known for its multi-sensory qualities, with overlapping projected imagery that is highly saturated with color, paired with sound components that are part of a larger environment with spaces for viewers to rest or lounge. Rist's work often transforms the architecture or environment of a white cube gallery into a more tactile, auditory and visual experience.




--- [5 Fast Facts: Pipilotti Rist | Broad Strokes Blog | National ...] ---
Impress your friends with five fast facts about Swiss video and installation artist Pipilotti Rist (b. 1962), whose works are part of NMWA’s collection. 1. A Rose by Any Other Name Born Elisabeth Rist, the artist has gone by “Pipilotti” ever since 1982, when she began art school at the University of Applied Arts Vienna in Austria. The moniker comes from a portmanteau of her childhood nickname “Lotti” and the playful, brave children’s book character Pippi Longstocking, created by Swedish writer Astrid Lindgren. “Pippi Longstocking lived alone in a very colorful house, and she had her own rules,” said Rist. Described as a “natural mischief maker,” the artist readily identifies with the fictional heroine. 2. Sur-reality TV Characterized by synthetic color palettes and mystical, glitchy editing, Rist’s videos often play up the artifice of the medium itself, as if the artist were pointing out the critical distance between film and the natural world. Rist once explained, “Nature is always sharper and more picturesque…Video has special painterly qualities that resemble our inner emotional worlds or ‘twilight’ worlds, and that’s what I’m interested in.” 3. Our Bodies, Ourselves The body is a recurring focal point in Rist’s oeuvre. She often shoots extreme close-ups of various human body parts, including the eyes, nose, hands, breasts, and anus. But bodies aren’t just the subject of her work. Frequently, Rist encourages viewers to physically engage with her exhibitions. In her famed 4th Floor to Mildness (2016) installation, Rist invited viewers to lie down on beds and gaze at suspended screens projecting her video footage. In every case, Rist is a master of the multisensory. 4. Inspired by Pop Rist is known for experimenting with pop culture, as seen in her seminal production, I’m Not the Girl Who Misses Much (1986), in which the artist dances frenetically while singing altered lyrics to a Beatles song. She even cites John Lennon and Yoko Ono as influences. For Rist, the customary segregation between popular art and fine art is too often an elitist one. “It was through my interest in mass media that I became involved in art. In return, I will always be grateful to popular culture.” 5. Inspiring Pop When Beyoncé released her visual album Lemonade (2016), writers speculated that the video accompanying the song “Hold Up” was an homage to Rist’s Ever Is Over All (1997). In Rist’s video, a young woman wearing a breezy blue dress animatedly walks down a city sidewalk, holding a tall stem of flowers––only revealed to be a metal club when she uses it to destroy a row of parked cars. Similarly, Beyoncé, clad in a ruffled yellow dress, strides down a sidewalk with a similar disposition, swinging a baseball bat into car windows. Rist’s juxtaposition of tact and anger would be an apt point of reference for Beyoncé, who uses her music to negotiate themes of delicacy and power.


--- [Pipilotti Rist | Biography, Video Art, Ever Is Over All, Beyonce, Pixel ...] ---
Pipilotti Rist - Who is Pipilotti Rist? - What kind of art does Pipilotti Rist create? - What is a video installation in art? - What themes does Pipilotti Rist explore in her installations? - How does Pipilotti Rist use color and sound in her work? - Can you name a famous artwork by Pipilotti Rist and explain its significance? Pipilotti Rist (born June 21, 1962, Grabs, Switzerland) is a Swiss video installation artist known for her provocative, often humorous, but always stylish work. (The name Pipilotti is one of her own creation, a fusion of her nickname, Lotti, with that of the energetic larger-than-life storybook heroine Pippi Longstocking in the eponymous work by Swedish writer Astrid Lindgren.) Rist attended the Institute of Applied Arts in Vienna and the School of Design in Basel, Switzerland, where her first experiments were with animated cartoons and scenery for pop music concerts. From 1988 to 1994 she also played drums and bass in an all-girl rock band, Les Reines Prochaines (“The Next Queens”). In I’m Not the Girl Who Misses Much (1986), her first production, Rist starred as a hysterical brunette singing an altered line from a Beatles song. By the late 1980s she was producing vivid and slickly made videos. In the 1990s she exhibited at a number of major venues, including the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, and the National Gallery in Berlin. In 1998 she was one of six finalists for the Hugo Boss Prize (an award administered every two years by the Guggenheim Foundation for significant achievement in contemporary art), and her single-channel video installation Sip My Ocean (1996) was shown at the Guggenheim Museum SoHo in New York City. The following year, with Ever Is Over All (1997), she won the Premio 2000 Prize at the Venice Biennale. The work consists of two projections on adjacent walls; one channel moves through a field of red flowers, while the other shows a woman with a long-stemmed flower smashing the windows of cars parked on the street. (Musician Beyoncé resurrected interest in the work in 2016 when the video to her song “Hold Up” featured a similar sequence.) Rist was renowned for bridging the gulf between popular culture and art and for merging various mediums. Her work drew deliberately on MTV-style pop music videos, but she added a reflective element of her own—pain and innocence were two of her favoured themes. Her installations captured the many contradictions and anxieties of modern society. For Selfless in a Bath of Lava (1994), for example, she removed a knot from a wooden floorboard in the P.S.1 gallery space and installed in its place a tiny video screen on which played a film loop picturing the artist, shrieking to be let out. Rist began the 21st century with Open My Glade (Flatten) (2000), a commission from the New York Public Art Fund. The series of silent videos played in Times Square, New York, showing Rist comically pressing her face and hands against glass, as if eager to break the barrier between the screen and the living world. Other pieces from the decade included Stir Heart, Rinse Heart (2003), an installation of suspended found objects, including plastic coffee cup lids and egg cartons, which reflect projected videos of what appear to be blood vessels and waves. For À la belle étoile (2007; “Under the Stars”), Rist cast moving images of herself, clouds, fireworks, and landscapes onto the plaza of the Centre Pompidou, Paris. For the enormous atrium of the Museum of Modern Art, New York, Rist created Pour Your Body Out (7354 Cubic Meters) (2008), a site-specific video installation that comprised a soundscape, a communal sofa, and a high-definition video of objects seen from a low angle. These objects included apples and tulips, which are later smashed and plucked. In 2009 Rist premiered her first feature film, Pepperminta, at the Venice Film Festival. Rist’s works from the 2010s included Parasimpatico (2011), wherein she projected a series of moving images with a soundtrack in an abandoned movie theatre in Milan; Mercy Garden (2014); Worry Will Vanish Horizon (2014); and Looking Through Pixel Forest (2016), which consists of 3,000 crystal-like globes that each encompass one pixel from a video. - Original first name: - Charlotte - Born: - June 21, 1962, Grabs, Switzerland (age 63) - Awards And Honors: - Venice Biennale (2000) Rist was chosen to represent Switzerland at the 2005 Venice Biennale. Her work was shown in a number of solo exhibitions, including at the New Museum (2016), New York; Museum of Fine Arts (2017), Houston; and Louisiana Museum of Art, Humlebæk, Denmark (2019).


--- [Pixel Forest by Pipilotti Rist - Kvadrat] ---
Pixel Forest by Pipilotti Rist New Museum, New York, 2016 In 2016, the New Museum in New York presented the spectacular retrospective “Pipilotti Rist: Pixel Forest”, featuring work spanning the pioneering Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist’s entire career. The exhibition included some of Rist’s most iconic video works and multimedia installations such as “Open My Glade,” which was projected onto the Museum’s façade and later appeared on 62 screens around Times Square each night at midnight for an entire month. Rist refers to her art as a “glorification of the wonder of evolution”. Through vibrantly colored projections, Rist magically fuse the natural world with the technological sublime. Dedicated to continuously challenge the limits of aesthetics and technology, Kvadrat supported this retrospective with 200 meters of Kvadrat/Raf Simons textiles for the elaborate installation spanning the entire top floor of the New Museum.


--- [11 Facts About Pipilotti Rist - FactSnippet] ---
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist was born on 21 June 1962 and is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. 11 Facts About Pipilotti Rist Pipilotti Rist's work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body. Pipilotti Rist was born Elisabeth Charlotte Rist in Grabs, Switzerland, in the Rhine Valley. Pipilotti Rist's father was a doctor and her mother a teacher. Pipilotti Rist started going by "Pipilotti", a combination of her childhood nickname "Lotti" and her childhood hero, Astrid Lindgren's character Pippi Longstocking, in 1982. From 1982 to 1986 Pipilotti Rist studied commercial art, illustration, and photography at the University of Applied Arts Vienna in Vienna. Pipilotti Rist later studied video at the Basel School of Design, Switzerland. From summer 2012 through to summer 2013, Pipilotti Rist spent a sabbatical in Somerset. Pipilotti Rist's work is regarded as feminist by some art critics. Pipilotti Rist's works are held by many important art collections worldwide. In 1998, Rist was a finalist for the Hugo Boss Prize administered by the Solomon R Guggenheim Foundation.
