=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pinky Kekana, Ms - South African Government]
She was elected to the Provincial legislature in 1999 and later re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, as well as MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo. In 2014, she was elected as a Member of Parliament.
URL: https://www.gov.za/about-government/contact-directory/public-service-and-administration-deputy-ministry/pinky-kekana

[Pinky Kekana: Biography, Age, Children, Previous Offices, Husband]
She was elected to the Limpopo Provincial Legislature in 1999 and was re-elected in 2009, marking the beginning of her political journey. She served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District. Kekana has also served as the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport and the MEC for Economic Development, Environment, and Tourism in Limpopo.
URL: https://www.thevibes.co.za/bio/pinky-kekana-biography/

[Former Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana | The Presidency]
She was elected to the Provincial legislature in 1999 and later re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, as well as MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo. In 2014, she was elected as a Member of Parliament.
URL: https://www.thepresidency.gov.za/node/201

[Ms Pinky Sharon Kekana | thensg]
Jul 10, 2024 · Ms Kekana’s political career began when she was elected to the Limpopo Provincial Legislature in 1999, and she was re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, and the MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo.
URL: https://www.thensg.gov.za/ms-pinky-sharon-kekana/

[Pinky Kekana - Wikipedia]
Kekana was first elected to the Limpopo Provincial Legislature in 1999, representing the African National Congress (ANC). [2] By 2008, she was the Executive Mayor of Limpopo's Waterberg District Municipality. [3] In that year, at a party elective conference held in July, Kekana was elected as Deputy Provincial Secretary of the ANC's Limpopo branch, serving under Provincial Chairperson Cassel ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinky_Kekana


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pinky Kekana, Ms - South African Government] ---
Ms Pinky Kekana was appointed as Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration from 3 July 2024. She was previously Deputy Minister in the Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation from 6 March 2023 to 19 June 2024. Pinky Sharon Kekana is a South African politician, the current Deputy Minister in the Presidency, an African Union diplomat, and the former Secretary General of the Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO). She now serves as the Patron of the Pan African Business Women’s Association (PABWA). Born and bred in Bela-Bela, located in the Limpopo Province, her first job was as a secondary school teacher at Bela-Bela High School, after completing her Bachelor of Arts in Education . It was her experiences as a secondary school teacher, that fuelled her passion for South Africa’s youth, education, and her commitment to improving opportunities for young South Africans, from all walks of life. It was her interest in politics though, that led her to the African National Congress. She was elected to the Provincial legislature in 1999 and later re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, as well as MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo. In 2014, she was elected as a Member of Parliament. In this role, Kekana has been a part of a number of committees most notably the Standing Committee on Finance and the Ad Hoc Committee on the Filling of Vacancies in the Commission for Gender Equality. In 2015 she was elected into the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress Women’s League and its National Working Committee. She was subsequently appointed as the Women’s league Chairperson on International Relations and later The Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO) Secretary General, a position she served in until April 2020. In December 2017, she was elected by the ANC branches into the National Executive Committee, and in this capacity, she serves on several sub-committees of the ANC. In 2019 Deputy Minister Kekana was appointed as a member of the ANC National Youth Task Team(NYTT). It was in March 2018,when she was appointed as the Deputy Minister of the then Department of Communications by President Cyril Ramaphosa. After the May 2019 national elections, She was again appointed to this role in the 6th administration, within the newly formed Department of Communications and Digital Technologies. She diligently served in this role until the 5th of August 2021. Source: The Presidency


--- [Pinky Kekana: Biography, Age, Children, Previous Offices, Husband] ---
Pinky Kekana (born 14 July 1966) is a South African politician. She currently serves as the Deputy Minister for the Public Service and Administration, appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Kekana is a member of the African National Congress (ANC), South Africa’s ruling political party. She has served in the National Assembly of South Africa, the National Executive, and as the Executive Mayor of Waterberg District. | Pinky Kekana | | |---|---| | Quick Facts | | | Name: | Pinky Sharon Kekana | | Born: | 14 July 1966 (age 59 years old) | | Place of birth: | Bela-Bela, Transvaal, South Africa | | Nationality: | South Africa | | Education: | Education (BA) | | Occupation: | Politician, former teacher | | Political party: | African National Congress | | Current position: | Deputy Minister for the Public Service and Administration | | Spouse: | Jerry Manyama (sep. 2014) | | Children: | Grant Kekana (son) Ipe (daughter) | Early Life Pinky Kekana was born on 14 July 1966 in Bela-Bela, Transvaal, South Africa. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in education. Career After completing her degree, Ms Kekana taught in Geography and Afrikaans as a secondary school teacher at Bela-Bela High School. She was elected to the Limpopo Provincial Legislature in 1999 and was re-elected in 2009, marking the beginning of her political journey. She served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District. Kekana has also served as the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport and the MEC for Economic Development, Environment, and Tourism in Limpopo. She was elected as a Member of Parliament in 2014. Ms Kekana was elected to the National Executive Committee of the ANC Women’s League and its National Working Committee in 2015. She was later appointed as the Women’s League chairperson on International Relations. She later served as the Secretary-General of the Pan-African Women’s Organisation (PAWO) until April 2020. She was elected to the African National Congress National Executive Committee in December 2017. She served as the Deputy Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies in 2018 and was appointed as a member of the ANC National Youth Task Team in 2019. In 2022, she served as a member of the ANC Women’s League National Task Team. Ms Kekana was elected to the party’s National Executive Committee in December 2022 and the ANC Women’s League National Executive Committee in July 2023. She also served as Deputy Minister in the Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. She was formally reprimanded in the National Assembly for failing to disclose a R170,000 payment received from a businessman linked to the State Capture investigations in 2023. Kekana served as the former Secretary-General of the Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO). She is the current Patron of the Pan-African Business Women’s Association (PABWA). Personal life Pinky Kekana married a civil servant, Jerry Manyama. She kicked Manyama out of their Polokwane home after obtaining a protection order against him in 2014. She has a son, Grant Kekana, a professional football player, and a daughter named Ipe. References - South African government. “Pinky Kekana, Ms”. www.gov.za. - The DPSA. “Deputy Minister for the Public Service and Administration”. www.dpsa.gov.za. - People’s Assembly. “Ms Pinky Sharon Kekana”. www.pa.org.za. - Sowetan. “MEC kicks husband out”. www.sowetan.co.za. - Sowetan. “Ethics committee wants Pinky Kekana reprimanded for R170k she got from Edwin Sodi”. www.sowetan.co.za. - People’s Assembly. “WriteInPublic messages to Pinky Sharon Kekana”. www.pa.org.za.


--- [Former Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana | The Presidency] ---
Pinky Sharon Kekana is a South African politician, the current Deputy Minister in the Presidency, an African Union diplomat, and the former Secretary General of the Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO). She now serves as the Patron of the Pan African Business Women’s Association (PABWA). Born and bred in Bela-Bela, located in the Limpopo Province, her first job was as a secondary school teacher at Bela-Bela High School, after completing her Bachelor of Arts in Education . It was her experiences as a secondary school teacher, that fuelled her passion for South Africa’s youth, education, and her commitment to improving opportunities for young South Africans, from all walks of life. It was her interest in politics though, that led her to the African National Congress. She was elected to the Provincial legislature in 1999 and later re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, as well as MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo. In 2014, she was elected as a Member of Parliament. In this role, Kekana has been a part of a number of committees most notably the Standing Committee on Finance and the Ad Hoc Committee on the Filling of Vacancies in the Commission for Gender Equality. In 2015 she was elected into the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress Women’s League and its National Working Committee. She was subsequently appointed as the Women’s league Chairperson on International Relations and later The Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO) Secretary General, a position she served in until April 2020. In December 2017, she was elected by the ANC branches into the National Executive Committee, and in this capacity, she serves on several sub-committees of the ANC. In 2019 Deputy Minister Kekana was appointed as a member of the ANC National Youth Task Team(NYTT). It was in March 2018,when she was appointed as the Deputy Minister of the then Department of Communications by President Cyril Ramaphosa. After the May 2019 national elections, She was again appointed to this role in the 6th administration, within the newly formed Department of Communications and Digital Technologies. She diligently served in this role until the 5th of August 2021. Former Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana Former Deputy Minister in the Presidency


--- [Ms Pinky Sharon Kekana | thensg] ---
Ms Pinky Sharon Kekana is a South African politician who currently serves as the Deputy Minister for the Public Service and Administration appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa on 30 June 2024. Before her current role, Ms Kekana served as Deputy Minister in the Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, a position she has held since 6 March 2023. She also held the position of Deputy Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies from 27 February 2018 until 5 August 2021 Born and raised in Bela-Bela, Limpopo Province, Ms Kekana’s first job was as a secondary school teacher at Bela-Bela High School, after completing her Bachelor of Arts degree in Education. Her experiences as a teacher fuelled her passion for South Africa’s youth, and education including her commitment to improving opportunities for young people from all walks of life. Ms Kekana’s political career began when she was elected to the Limpopo Provincial Legislature in 1999, and she was re-elected in 2009. She has also served as the Executive Mayor of the Waterberg District, the MEC of Limpopo Roads and Transport, and the MEC for Economic Development, Environment and Tourism in Limpopo. In 2014, Ms Kekana was elected as a Member of Parliament. In this role, she has served on several committees, most notably the Standing Committee on Finance and the Ad Hoc Committee on the Filling of Vacancies in the Commission for Gender Equality. In 2015, Ms Kekana was elected to the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress Women’s League and its National Working Committee. She was subsequently appointed as the Women’s League Chairperson on International Relations and later the Secretary-General of the Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO), a position she served in until April 2020. In December 2017, Ms. Kekana was elected to the African National Congress National Executive Committee, and in this capacity, she serves on several sub-committees of the party. In 2019, she was appointed as a member of the ANC National Youth Task Team (NYTT), a role she served in until 2021. In 2022, she was appointed as a member of the ANC Women’s League National Task Team (NTT). Following the ANC National Conference in December 2022, Ms Kekana was once again elected to the party’s National Executive Committee and the ANC Women’s League National Executive Committee in July 2023. In March 2018, Ms. Kekana was appointed as the Deputy Minister of the then Department of Communications by President Cyril Ramaphosa. After the May 2019 national elections, she was reappointed to this role in the 6th administration, within the newly formed Department of Communications and Digital Technologies, where she served until 5 August 2021. In addition to her political roles, Ms. Kekana is an African Union diplomat and the former Secretary-General of the Pan African Women’s Organisation (PAWO). She currently serves as the Patron of the Pan African Business Women’s Association (PABWA).


--- [Pinky Kekana - Wikipedia] ---
Pinky Sharon Kekana (born 14 July 1966) is a South African politician from Limpopo who is currently the Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration. A member of the African National Congress (ANC), she has served in the National Assembly of South Africa since May 2014 and in the national executive since February 2018.
A teacher by training, Kekana was a member of the Member of the Limpopo Provincial Legislature and served in the Limpopo Executive Council from 2009 to 2013 under Premier Cassel Mathale. She was elected to the National Assembly in the 2014 general election and was elected to the ANC National Executive Committee in 2017.
Thereafter, in February 2018, President Cyril Ramaphosa appointed her to the national executive. Before taking up her current position in July 2024, she was Deputy Minister of Communications from 2018 to 2021, Deputy Minister in the Presidency from 2021 to 2023, and Deputy Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation from 2023 to 2024. In December 2022, she was elected to a second five-year term in the ANC National Executive Committee.
