=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The History Behind the Met Gala - TIME]
May 1, 2024 — Vreeland is known for getting more celebrities involved in the event, like First Lady Jackie Kennedy, who served as a co-chair from 1977 to 1978 ...
URL: https://time.com/6972918/met-gala-history/

[A History of the Met Gala: Everything You Didn’t Know | Vogue]
Apr 28, 2025 · Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis served as co-chair of the gala in both 1976 and 1977, and legendary interior designer Billy Baldwin was tasked with handling the decor.
URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-met-gala-video

[Met Gala Co-Chairs Through the Years [PHOTOS] - People.com]
May 3, 2024 · From Rihanna to Lady Gaga, here are all of the big names in fashion and Hollywood who have co-chaired the Met Gala since 1995 Prior to 1995, fashion's biggest night did not usually have co-chairs ...
URL: https://people.com/style/met-gala-chairs-through-the-years/

[The Lives of the Party: A Whirlwind History of the Met Gala]
May 6, 2024 · Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis served as co-chair of the gala in both 1976 and 1977, and legendary interior designer Billy Baldwin was tasked with handling the decor. Diana Vreeland, 1977. Photo: Sonia Moskowitz/Getty Images Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and former museum curator and director Thomas Hoving, 1976. Photo: Allan Tannenbaum/Getty Images
URL: https://vogue.ph/lifestyle/art/a-whirlwind-history-of-the-met-gala/

[FORMER Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of FORMER is coming before in time. How to use former in a sentence. Synonym Discussion of Former.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/former


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The History Behind the Met Gala - TIME] ---
The annual Met Gala is held to celebrate the dresses on display inside the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but on May 6, all eyes will be on the celebrities entering the museum in dresses that are works of art in themselves. Hosted the first Monday of every May, the Met Gala serves to raise money for the museum's Costume Institute. Over the years, the party has evolved from a dinner of Manhattan socialites to a must-watch red carpet and costume party, featuring star attendees from all over the world. “It’s become one of the rare occasions when movie stars, models, designers, society swans, rock legends, athletes, politicians, and rappers, not to mention a cultural icon or two, come together to celebrate fashion—and get to spend a night at the museum," writes Vogue editor-in-chief and longtime Met Gala co-chair Anna Wintour in Vogue & The Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute. Here's how the Met Gala became the year's biggest fashion event. When was the first Met Gala? The event started in December 1948 as a midnight dinner that cost $50 to attend. The first Met Gala was the brainchild of fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert, who played a key role in launching N.Y. Fashion Week. She saw the event as a way to fundraise for the Costume Institute’s expenses and celebrate the opening of its annual exhibit. Billing itself as “The Party of the Year,” it took place at the Waldorf Astoria, and guests donned their finest formal attire. How the Met Gala became a themed fashion event The Met galas started boasting themes in the 1970s, when legendary Vogue editor-in-chief Diana Vreeland became a special consultant to the Costume Institute (1972-1989). The first themed Met Gala was the 1973 Cristóbal Balenciaga retrospective a year after his death. Notable themes in the Vreeland era include a Russian-themed costume exhibit—for which the renowned fashion editor was decked out in Slavic attire— and an old Hollywood theme—for which the singer Cher dressed head to toe in fringe. Vreeland is known for getting more celebrities involved in the event, like First Lady Jackie Kennedy, who served as a co-chair from 1977 to 1978. After Vogue’s Anna Wintour took over the event in 1995, the party grew in size and began to include appearances from top names in film, sports, business, and music. As Wintour biographer Amy Odell wrote for TIME in 2022, the party is not only a celebration of the Costume Institute, but also a celebration of Wintour’s dominance of the industry. Through Wintour's influence, the Met Gala has become one of the most exclusive annual fashion events. Each year, stars who get an invite show up dressed according to theme, or at least their interpretation of it. Sometimes the dresses seem to suggest literal layers of meaning; at the 1996 Met Gala, stylists saw Princess Diana's lingerie-inspired silky blue dress as a "revenge dress" because she wore it the same year she got divorced from the then Prince Charles. Religious Met Gala-watchers will remember that time Rihanna took to the red carpet dressed as a Pope in 2018, and outlandish Met gala looks arguably peaked at last year's do when pop star Doja Cat showed up in cat ears. What to expect at the Met’s 2024 costume exhibit About 250 garments and accessories spanning four centuries from the Costume Institute’s permanent collection will be displayed in new ways using artificial intelligence, computer-generated imagery, x-rays, video animation, light projection, and soundscapes. Iconography related to nature “will serve as a metaphor for the fragility and ephemerality of fashion and a vehicle to examine the cyclical themes of rebirth and renewal,” according to the museum. Designers featured include Christian Dior, Yves Saint Laurent, and Stella McCartney.


--- [A History of the Met Gala: Everything You Didn’t Know | Vogue] ---
One can’t discuss the history of the Met Gala—an event attended by a mesmerizing constellation of stars, dressed in Fashion with a capital F, to raise funds for the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute—without discussing the history of the Costume Institute itself. Imagine New York in the 1930s. The Whitney Museum of American Art opened on lower Fifth Avenue in 1931, followed by the Museum of the City of New York—in the imposing red-brick building it still calls home—in 1932. At about this time, theater producer Irene Lewisohn and stage designer Aline Bernstein had a thought: If American art and local history had their own museums, where was the cathedral for fashion? Between them, the women had an extensive collection of fashion and reference material that was used for theatrical productions and research, and they understood the potential of allowing the public access to their holdings. The Costume Institute began as the Museum of Costume Art, an independent entity formed in 1937. As soon as March 1938, Vogue was advertising lectures on historical fashion hosted by the museum, which was then located at 650 Fifth Avenue, right in Rockefeller Center. A couple of years after cofounder Lewisohn’s death in 1946, however, the Museum of Costume Art merged with the Metropolitan Museum of Art and, theretofore, was known as the Costume Institute. But unlike other departments of the museum, the Costume Institute was self-funded—enter the Met Gala, or, as it was immediately dubbed, “The Party of the Year.” The Met Gala, the Early Years Fashion is nothing without a bit of spin—the twirl of a skirt, sure, but also some canny marketing to help grab attention. Spirited by the promotional genius of fashion’s preeminent PR guru, Eleanor Lambert (responsible for New York Fashion Week, the launch of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and the esteemed International Best Dressed List), the Costume Institute launched its annual fundraising gala in 1948. Though interest in a party thrown in the name of fashion was already high, Lambert piqued it by calling the event “The Party of the Year.” By default, it was unmissable. The first Party of the Year was arranged as a midnight supper in the fall—not on the first Monday in May—and was not hosted at the Met. Over the next several decades, its venue would shift from Rockefeller Center’s Rainbow Room to the Waldorf Astoria. Only Women’s Wear Daily covered the event until 1958. To drum up excitement around the first-ever Party of the Year, in October 1948, WWD published an article titled “Benefit Party for Costume Institute Set: Affair Nov. 18 to Mark First Gala Get-Together of Fashion Industry—25 Branches Represented.” The cost to attend the shindig? $50 (some $660 now). “For a long time it has been said that the fashion industry should have one big get-together each year…the committee hopes that this party will become an annual event as important as the Beaux Arts ball used to be,” Lambert told the publication. Little did she know just how important the event would become. By 1958, the Costume Institute had expanded its footprint at the Met—making the annual gala even more essential. The Met Gala, the Vreeland Years In 1972, Diana Vreeland, the imaginative editor in chief of Vogue from 1963 to 1971, applied her unending creativity to the Costume Institute as a consultant for the Met. The famously extravagant Vreeland had been let go from her position at Vogue, and so she channeled her eccentricities into crafting and curating exhibitions from 1972 to 1989. (Before, that responsibility went to fashion scholars and the Met’s own curators.) They tended to be more fantastical than academic—and by that same token, she would transform the Party of the Year into an event more fitting of its name. Her 1973 exhibition, “The World of Balenciaga,” garnered much attention. Opening a year after the master couturier’s death, the show was an ode to his decades-long career; Vreeland even spritzed Balenciaga perfume throughout the galleries. That same year, the party really took off: Not only did it now take place at the museum itself (specifically, the Medieval Sculpture Hall), but Oscar de la Renta designed the tablecloths for the dinner of pâté, potage, blanquette de veau, salad, and Brie, as reported by The New York Times. In later years, Vreeland also called upon her anyone-who’s-anyone Rolodex to amplify the event. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis served as co-chair of the gala in both 1976 and 1977, and legendary interior designer Billy Baldwin was tasked with handling the decor. The final Costume Institute exhibition curated by Vreeland was 1986’s “Dance.” In 1987, the exhibition “In Style: Celebrating Fifty Years of the Costume Institute” celebrated 50 years of the Institute, and the gala in December honored Ms. Vreeland and her many contributions to the department—though Vreeland herself was notably absent. (She would pass away in 1989.) - 1971: “Fashion Plate” - 1972: “Untailored Garments” - 1973: “The World of Balenciaga” - 1974: “Romantic and Glamorous Hollywood Design” - 1975: “American Women of Style” - 1976: “The Glory of Russian Costume” - 1977: “Vanity Fair: A Treasure Trove” - 1978: “Diaghilev: Costumes and Designs of the Ballets Russes” - 1979: “Fashions of the Habsburg Era: Austria-Hungary” - 1980: “The Manchu Dragon: Costumes of China, the Chi’ng Dynasty” - 1981: “The Eighteenth-Century Woman” - 1982: “Le Belle Époque” - 1983: “Yves Saint Laurent: 25 Years of Design” - 1984: “Man and the Horse” - 1985: “Costumes of Royal India” - 1986: “Dance” - 1987: “In Style: Celebrating Fifty Years of the Costume Institute” The Met Gala, the Pat Buckley Years It didn’t take long for the Canadian-born Pat Buckley to leave a distinct mark on Manhattan. The socialite was involved with several charitable causes, most notably the Costume Institute; during the period when Vreeland was consulting, curating, and hosting the Party of the Year, Buckley was also involved, serving as co-chair of the gala from 1979 to 1994. The press, however, was quick to note that Buckley didn’t quite have Vreeland’s panache (though few did). As WWD mused in 1998, “Can the Metropolitan Museum’s Costume Institute survive without Diana Vreeland’s magic touch?” At the time, people were divided on fashion theory versus fashion fantasy. In Vreeland’s wake, with the exhibition handed (back) over to scholars, could the gala garner the same interest? Caroline Goldthorpe, a curatorial assistant at the Institute, curated 1988’s (“From Queen to Empress: Victorian Dress 1837–1877”), and by 1989, Richard Martin had been brought on as head of the Costume Institute, with Harold Koda supporting. Martin helmed the department until his death in 1999. Designers came out to the 1988 gala in droves, among them Adolfo, Marc Jacobs, Louis Dell’Olio, Donna Karan, Victor Costa (from Dallas), Geoffrey Beene, Mary McFadden, Calvin Klein, Alexander Julian, Zandra Rhodes (from London), Michael Kors, and Bob Mackie. Under Buckley’s patronage, a ticketed on-site after-party was also open to the public—a brilliant maneuver that allowed anyone to be a part of the night. - 1988: “From Queen to Empress: Victorian Dress 1837–1877” - 1989: “The Age of Napoleon: Costume From Revolution to Empire, 1789–1815” - 1990: “Théâtre de la Mode – Fashion Dolls: The Survival of Haute Couture” - 1991: Gala held, but no exhibition - 1992: “Fashion and History: A Dialogue” - 1993: “Diana Vreeland: Immoderate Style” - 1994: “Orientalism: Visions of the East in Western dress” The Met Gala, the Anna Wintour Years The year 1995 marked the first Party of the Year co-chaired by Anna Wintour; she shared duties with Annette de la Renta and Clarissa Bronfman on an evening celebrating the exhibition “Haute Couture.” With Wintour at the helm, the event reflected the pages of Vogue, teeming with models, actors, artists, and musicians—in other words, the individuals dictating American (and international) culture. Flipping through 1995’s party snapshots, one encounters the likes of Karl Lagerfeld, Gianni Versace, Kate Moss, Naomi Campbell, Calvin Klein, Brandy, and Sarah Jessica Parker. Excluding the years of 1996 (co-chaired by then Harper’s Bazaar editor in chief Liz Tilberis) and 1998 (co-chaired by Miuccia Prada, Paula Cussi, and Pia Getty), Wintour has co-chaired every gala since, pumping star power, imaginative grandeur, and the might of Vogue into the event. With each passing year, as global interest in the event grew, Vogue brought its readers closer and closer to being inside the event—well, sort of. What happens at the Met stays at the Met! By 2001, the Met Gala had assumed its official date, the First Monday in May. Martin’s final exhibition, “Rock Style” in 1999, was followed by a handful of transitional years. There was no gala or exhibition in 2000; in 2001, Vogue’s own Hamish Bowles curated “Jacqueline Kennedy: The White House Years”; and there was no gala or exhibition in 2002. But things were back to normal again in 2003, with Harold Koda now heading up the department. He would eventually be succeeded by Andrew Bolton, who joined the museum in 2002 and became head curator of the Costume Institute in 2016. If one particular gala marked a turning point, it was 2004’s “Dangerous Liaisons: Fashion and Furniture in the 18th Century,” which saw Amber Valletta take the theme to heart in her own 18th-century pouf hairstyle and a John Galliano skirt that winked at the puckers of a robe à la française. Soon after, highly specific dress codes were delineated on invitations sent out by Vogue’s events department. In 2010, Lady Gaga kicked off the tradition of the surprise post-dinner performance: Katy Perry, The Weeknd, Frank Ocean, Rihanna, Madonna, and more followed suit. Rihanna singing “Bitch Better Have My Money” on top of a table, and Madonna descending the Great Hall steps to chanting monks before removing a monastic cloak and belting “Like a Prayer,” go down as among the greatest Met moments ever. These hush-hush happenings (guests never know who’s about to take the stage!) are meant to be enjoyed by gala-goers and gala-goers alone—press and photographers inside the event are very limited. But the red carpet, which the public can see from the street, is something of a performance in and of itself. In 2021, when the gala took place in September due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the red carpet arrivals were livestreamed by Vogue for the first time, satisfying the public’s appetite for real-time views of fashion’s most famous gala. All the while, the event itself—which, lest you forget, is a fundraiser—has been a smashing success, raising millions of dollars each spring. Party of the Year, indeed. - 1995: “Haute Couture” - 1996: “Christian Dior” - 1997: “Gianni Versace” - 1998: “Cubism and Fashion” - 1999: “Rock Style” - 2000: No costume exhibition presented - 2001: “Jacqueline Kennedy: The White House Years” - 2002: No costume exhibition gala presented - 2003: “Goddess: The Classical Mode” - 2004: “Dangerous Liaisons: Fashion and Furniture in the 18th Century” - 2005: “The House of Chanel” - 2006: “AngloMania: Tradition and Transgression in British Fashion” - 2007: “Poiret: King of Fashion” - 2008: “Superheroes: Fashion and Fantasy” - 2009: “The Model as Muse: Embodying Fashion” - 2010: “American Woman: Fashioning a National Identity” - 2011: “Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty” - 2012: “Schiaparelli and Prada: Impossible Conversations” - 2013: “Punk: Chaos to Couture” - 2014: “Charles James: Beyond Fashion” - 2015: “China: Through the Looking Glass” - 2016: “Manus x Machina: Fashion In an Age of Technology” - 2017: “Rei Kawakubo/Comme des Garçons: Art of the In-Between” - 2018: “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination” - 2019: “Camp: Notes on Fashion” - 2020: “About Time: Fashion and Duration” and no gala presented - 2021: “In America: A Lexicon of Fashion” - 2022: “In America: An Anthology of Fashion” - 2023: “Karl Lagerfeld: A Line of Beauty” - 2024: “Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion” - 2025: “Superfine: Tailoring Black Style” Four years ago, to mark the museum’s 150th anniversary, Vogue’s international editor at large, Hamish Bowles, narrated a full history of the Met Gala and the Costume Institute. Revisit it below. Edited by: Charlie Denholm Starring: Hamish Bowles Additional Edit: Dylan Blau Photo Research: Landon Phillips, Tim Herzog Vogue Video Team: Kimberly Arms, Max Bartick, Rachel Cantor, Marina Cukeric, Anna Page Nadin, Naomi Nishi, Robert Semmer, Sam Sussman, Maya Tanaka, Emily Yates Postproduction Manager: Marco Glinblizzi Archive: Annie Leibovitz / Vogue, Arthur Elgort / Vogue, Bert Stern / Vogue, Condé Nast Archives, Corey Tenold / Vogue, Courtesy of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, David Bailey / Vogue, Eric Boman / Conde Nast, Ernst Beadle / Vogue, Evan Sung / Vogue, Frances McLaughlin-Gill / Vogue, Francesco Scavullo / Vogue, Gianni Penati / Vogue, Hannah Thomson / Vogue, Henri Cartier-Bresson / Magnum Photos, Harry Benson / Vogue, Herb Ritts / Vogue, Horst P. Horst / Vogue, Irving Penn / Vogue, Michael Lisnet / Vogue, The New York Times Archives, Richard Rutledge / Glamour, Richard Rutledge / Vogue, Robert Fairer / Vogue, Steven Meisel / Vogue, Taylor Jewell / Vogue


--- [Met Gala Co-Chairs Through the Years [PHOTOS] - People.com] ---
Met Gala Co-Chairs Through the Years From Rihanna to Lady Gaga, here are all of the big names in fashion and Hollywood who have co-chaired the Met Gala since 1995 By Andrea Wurzburger Andrea Wurzburger Andrea Wurzburger is a former features writer at PEOPLE. She left PEOPLE in 2022. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on May 3, 2024 04:29PM EDT 01 of 27 1995 Getty(3) Prior to 1995, fashion's biggest night did not usually have co-chairs, though Jaqueline Kennedy Onassis did chair the event twice, in 1976 and 1977. It wasn't until Anna Wintour began chairing the event that it became common practice to have co-chairs, who are generally a mix of celebrities and designers. The theme: Haute Couture The co-chairs: Clarissa Bronfman, Anna Wintour and Annette de la Renta Honorary chairs: Karl Lagerfeld and Gianni Versace 02 of 27 1996 Evan Agostini/Liaison The theme: Christian Dior The co-chairs: Elizabeth Tilberis (pictured here with Princess Diana), Marie-Chantal Crown Princess of Greece and Helene David-Weill 03 of 27 1997 Richard Corkery/NY Daily News Archive via Getty The theme: Gianni Versace The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Julia Koch and Patrick McCarthy 04 of 27 1998 Richard Corkery/Getty The theme: Cubism and Fashion The co-chairs: Miuccia Prada (pictured right, shaking co-chair Anna Wintour's hand), Paula Cussi and Pia Getty 05 of 27 1999 Richard Corkery/Getty The theme: Rock Style The co-chairs: Aerin Lauder, Tommy Hilfiger and Anna Wintour 06 of 27 2001 Getty(4) The theme: Jaqueline Kennedy: The White House Years The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Christina and Lindsay Owen-Jones, Annette and Oscar de la Renta and Carolina Herrera Honorary chairs: Caroline Kennedy and Edwin A. Schlossberg 07 of 27 2003 Getty The theme: Goddess: The Classical Mode The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Tom Ford and Nicole Kidman 08 of 27 2005 BILLY FARRELL/Patrick McMullan/Getty The theme: The House of Chanel The co-chairs: Karl Lagerfeld, Nicole Kidman (again!) and Anna Wintour Honorary chair: Caroline, Princess of Hanover 09 of 27 2006 Getty(2) The theme: AngloMania: Tradition and Transgression in British Fashion The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Christopher Bailey and Sienna Miller Honorary chairs: Rose Marie Bravo and Peregrine Cavendish, Duke of Devonshire 10 of 27 2007 BILLY FARRELL/Patrick McMullan/Getty The theme: Poiret: King of Fashion The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Cate Blanchett and Nicolas Chesquière Honorary chairs: François-Henri Pinault 11 of 27 2008 BILLY FARRELL/Patrick McMullan/Getty The theme: Superheroes: Fashion and Fantasy The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Julia Roberts and George Clooney Honorary chair: Giorgio Armani 12 of 27 2009 BILLY FARRELL/Patrick McMullan/Getty The theme: The Model as Muse: Embodying Fashion The co-chairs: Justin Timberlake, Anna Wintour and Kate Moss Honorary chair: Marc Jacobs 13 of 27 2010 BILLY FARRELL/Patrick McMullan/Getty The theme: American Woman: Fashioning a New Identity The co-chairs: Patrick Robinson, Anna Wintour and Oprah Winfrey 14 of 27 2011 Getty(3) The theme: Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty The co-chairs: Anna Wintour, Stella McCartney and Colin Firth Honorary chairs: François-Henri Pinault and Salma Hayek 15 of 27 2012 Getty(3) The theme: Schiaparelli and Prada: Impossible Conversations The co-chairs: Miuccia Prada, Carey Mulligan and Anna Wintour Honorary chair: Jeff Bezos 16 of 27 2013 Getty(4) The theme: Punk: Chaos to Couture The co-chairs: Rooney Mara, Lauren Santo Domingo, Anna Wintour and Riccardo Tisci Honorary chair: Beyoncé 17 of 27 2014 Getty(3) The theme: Charles James: Beyond Fashion The co-chairs: Bradley Cooper, Anna Wintour, Sarah Jessica Parter, Oscar de la Renta and Lizzie and Jonathan Tisch 18 of 27 2015 Getty(3) The theme: China: Through the Looking Glass The co-chairs: Gong Li, Jennifer Lawrence, Anna Wintour, Marissa Mayer and Wendi Murdoch Honorary chair: Silas Chou 19 of 27 2016 Getty(4) The theme: Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology The co-chairs: Jonathan Ive, Idris Elba, Anna Wintour and Taylor Swift Honorary chairs: Nicolas Ghesquière, Karl Lagerfeld and Miuccia Prada 20 of 27 2017 Getty(4) The theme: Rei Kawakubo/Comme de Garçons: Art of the In-Between The co-chairs: Katy Perry, Anna Wintour, Pharrell Williams, Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen Honorary chair: Rei Kawakubo 21 of 27 2018 Kevin Mazur/Getty The theme: Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination The co-chairs: Donatella Versace, Rihanna, Amal Clooney and Anna Wintour Honorary chairs: Christine and Stephen A. Schwarzman 22 of 27 2019 Kevin Mazur/WireImage The theme: Camp: Notes on Fashion The co-chairs: Serena Williams, Harry Styles, Alessandro Michele, Lady Gaga and Anna Wintour 23 of 27 2020 Getty(5) The event was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but here's who would have chaired. The theme: About Time: Fashion and Duration The co-chairs: Lin-Manuel Miranda, Meryl Streep, Anna Wintour, Nicolas Ghesquière and Emma Stone 24 of 27 2021 Getty(4) The theme: In America: A Lexicon of Fashion The co-chairs: Naomi Osaka, Billie Eilish, Amanda Gorman and Timothée Chalamet Honorary chairs: Tom Ford, Adam Mosseri and Anna Wintour 2021 marked the first time since 1996 that Wintour did not co-chair the event and, rather, was an honorary chair. 25 of 27 2022 Getty (4) The theme: In America: An Anthology of Fashion The co-chairs: Blake Lively, Ryan Reynolds, Regina King, and Lin-Manuel Miranda Honorary chairs: Tom Ford, Adam Mosseri and Anna Wintour 26 of 27 2023 Getty (4) The theme: Karl Lagerfeld: A Line of Beauty The co-chairs: Dua Lipa, Michaela Coel, Penélope Cruz and Roger Federer 27 of 27 2024 Getty (4) The theme: A Garden in Time The co-chairs: Jennifer Lopez, Chris Hemsworth, Zendaya and Bad Bunny Read more: Entertainment Awards Shows and Events 2026 Met Gala Close


--- [The Lives of the Party: A Whirlwind History of the Met Gala] ---
No content


--- [FORMER Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : coming before in time She now appears like her former self. b : of, relating to, or occurring in the past former correspondence restoring the theater to its former glory 2 : preceding in place or arrangement : foregoing the former part of the chapter 3 : first in order of two or more things cited or understood Of the two given, the former spelling is more common. 4 : having been previously : onetime a former athlete her former husband 1 : one that forms 2 chiefly British : a member of a school form —usually used in combination sixth former Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged
