=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[People Power Revolution - Wikipedia]
The People Power Revolution, also known as the EDSA Revolution[a] or the February Revolution, [8][9][10][11] was a series of popular demonstrations in the Philippines, mostly in Metro Manila, from February 22 to 25, 1986. There was a sustained campaign of civil resistance against regime violence and electoral fraud.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Power_Revolution

[TIMELINE: The events and important people of the 1986 People Power ...]
Feb 25, 2026 · On Feb. 25, 1986, the Filipino people ousted a dictator. This 2026 marks the 40th anniversary of the EDSA People Power Revolution, demonstrations that led to the removal of former president Ferdinand Marcos Sr. In commemoration of the historic revolt, here are the important events that led to the uprising.
URL: https://philstarlife.com/geeky/414480-timeline-events-important-people-1986-people-power-revolution

[Corazon Aquino (11th President of the Philippines) - On This Day]
Biography: Named the "Mother of Philippine Democracy", Aquino was the 1st woman to become President of the Philippines and the most prominent figure of the 1986 People Power Revolution that toppled the 20-year authoritarian rule of Ferdinand Marcos.
URL: https://www.onthisday.com/people/corazon-aquino

[Key players in the 1986 People Power Revolution - RAPPLER]
Feb 24, 2016 · (1st UPDATE) Who were the prominent figures of EDSA 1986 and where are they now? MANILA, Philippines – The month of February marks the anniversary of the 1986 People Power Revolution.
URL: https://www.rappler.com/newsbreak/iq/122057-key-players-1986-people-power-revolution/

[Corazon Aquino]
The first female president in Philippine history, Aquino was the most prominent figure of the 1986 People Power Revolution, which ended the two-decade rule ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corazon_Aquino


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [People Power Revolution - Wikipedia] ---
The People Power Revolution, also known as the EDSA Revolution or the February Revolution, was a series of popular demonstrations in the Philippines, mostly in Metro Manila, from February 22 to 25, 1986. There was a sustained campaign of civil resistance against regime violence and electoral fraud. The nonviolent revolution led to the departure of Ferdinand Marcos, the end of his 20-year dictatorship and the restoration of democracy in the Philippines.
It is also referred to as the Yellow Revolution due to the presence of yellow ribbons during demonstrations (in reference to the Tony Orlando and Dawn song "Tie a Yellow Ribbon Round the Ole Oak Tree") as a symbol of protest following the assassination of Filipino senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Jr. in August 1983 upon his return to the Philippines from exile.  It was widely seen as a victory of the people against two decades of presidential rule by President Marcos, and made news headlines as "the revolution that surprised the world".
The majority of the demonstrations took place on a long stretch of Epifanio de los Santos Avenue, more commonly known by its acronym EDSA, in Metro Manila from February 22 to 25, 1986. They involved over two million Filipino civilians, as well as several political and military groups, and religious groups led by Cardinal Jaime Sin, the Archbishop of Manila, along with Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines President Cardinal Ricardo Vidal, the Archbishop of Cebu. The demonstrations were remembered as a "Rosary miracle" for their peaceful victory.
The protests, fueled by the resistance and opposition after years of governance by President Marcos and his cronies, ended with the ruler, his family, and some of their supporters fleeing to exile in Hawaii; and Ninoy Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino, inaugurated as the eleventh President of the Philippines.
In 2003, the Radio Broadcast of the Philippine People Power Revolution was inscribed in the UNESCO Memory of the World International Register.


--- [TIMELINE: The events and important people of the 1986 People Power ...] ---
TIMELINE: The events and important people of the 1986 People Power Revolution On Feb. 25, 1986, the Filipino people ousted a dictator. This 2026 marks the 40th anniversary of the EDSA People Power Revolution, demonstrations that led to the removal of former president Ferdinand Marcos Sr. In commemoration of the historic revolt, here are the important events that led to the uprising. A more detailed retelling is available via Angela Stuart Santiago's Chronology of a Revolution, which curated news and magazine stories, books, and more into a "panorama" of the EDSA revolution. Before we get into the events, here are some important figures in the revolt. Ferdinand Marcos Sr. Marcos was the president of the Philippines from 1965 to 1989. During his regime, he declared martial law on Sept. 21, 1972, which kept him in power. His rule was marred by corruption and human rights violations. Corazon Aquino Aquino was the widow of Marcos critic then-senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Jr. He was assassinated three years before the events of EDSA in 1983. After Ninoy's passing, Aquino became a figurehead of the opposition. Juan Ponce Enrile Enrile was one of Marcos' allies who was instrumental in the implementation of martial law. He served as the Secretary of National Defense. Fidel V. Ramos Ramos was the Vice Chief-of-Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. He was formerly the head of the Philippine Constabulary when Marcos imposed military rule. Fabian Ver During the Marcos Sr. administration, Ver was the commanding officer of the AFP. Enrile described him as a "Man of Marcos" through and through, according to the Kahimyang project. Jaime Cardinal Sin Sin became the archbishop of Manila two years after martial law was declared. He criticized Marcos' regime and pivotal role during the revolution when he took to the airwaves to call on Filipinos to take to the streets. June Keithley Keithley, fondly called "ketley," was an actress and journalist who broadcast information via Radyo Bandido during the EDSA Revolution. Butz Aquino Butz was the brother of Ninoy who became one of the founders of the August Twenty-One Movement. He also called the public to gather via Radyo Veritas. Doy Laurel Laurel, the son of former president Jose P. Laurel, ran alongside Aquino during the snap elections as her Vice President. The First Family Living in Malacañang with the former president was his First Family: his wife Imelda Marcos and their children, current president Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos Jr., Sen. Imee Marcos, and Irene Marcos. The presidential children were 29, 30, and 25, respectively, at the time. Feb. 7 - The 1986 snap elections were held, with the close race being between Ferdinand Marcos Sr. and Corazon Aquino. Commission on Elections results showed Marcos leading, while NAMFREL showed Aquino ahead. Feb. 15 - Marcos is declared president with Arturo Tolentino as his Vice President. Feb. 16 - Around 2 million gather at Quirino Grandstand to protest Marcos' proclamation. - Cory and her allies launched a civil disobedience campaign. Feb. 22 - In Dasmariñas Village, Makati, then-defense minister Juan Ponce Enrile and then-press secretary Silvestre Afable and three others plotted a coup against Marcos. - Col. Gringo Honassan and his commandos planned to break into Malacañang to arrest Marcos and First Lady Imelda, but the details were leaked to General Fabian Ver, who fortified the palace. - Enrile and Vice Chief of Staff Gen. Fidel V. Ramos turned against Marcos. - Ver orders to destroy Radyo Veritas, but Singson Brig. Gen Singson did not take any offensive action. - Jaime Cardinal Sin on Radyo Veritas urged the public to leave their homes and support Enrile and Ramos. The radio station also gave a blow-by-blow account of the siege. - Some 10,000 marched to Camp Aguinaldo, chanting "Cory!" The numbers rose to 20.000 and 30,000. Feb. 23 - Thousands were in the streets. Marcos called to have it dispersed, but Brig. Gen Ramon Olivas said it was "beyond the capability of his men." - Enrile urged Aquino to form her own government as the duly elected president. - Cardinal Sin implored Marcos' troops not to use weapons or violence. He asked supporters not to abandon Enrile and Ramos. - Armed men stormed the radio antenna farm of Radio Veritas and destroyed 60KW AM and shortwave transmitters and 16 radio equipment units of radio equipment. The radio now only covered Luzon. Cardinal Sin called Fr. James Reuter to find him transmitters. - From Magellan Hotel in Cebu City, Aquino held a press conference where she urged people to rally behind Enrile and Ramos and for those in the military to support the people's will. She also asked Marcos to step down. - By lunch time, there were 300,000 to 400,000 people in the streets. - Marcos responded to resignation calls: "Certainly I will not resign on the say-so of those who criticize my administration," he said, as per Inquirer. He added that the presence of crowds did not bother him. "If you are going to be frightened by 2,000 civilians, then what is the use of running a government?" - Enrile left Camp Aguinaldo to join Ramos at Camp Crame. - Tanks were reportedly rolling in from Guadalupe to Crame. Civilians overtook the tanks and asked for help from buses to form barricades along the Ortigas-EDSA intersection. - There were about 500,000 people outside rebel camps by mid-afternoon, blocking the Marines. - Gen. Artemio Tadiar told Gen. Josephus Ramas to ram through the crowds, but the tanks did not move. The soldiers alighted, faced the people who were in tears, holding rosaries. - Tadiar was still adamant to pass through to get to Enrile, but crowds stopped him. "Uncle Fred" appealed to him over Radio Veritas, but Tadiar said "Hindi pwede! Mamatay tayong lahat dito!" - Butz Aquino also spoke, saying that the only higher authority they recognize is Ramos as chief of staff and Aquino as commander-in-chief. - The crowds, dancing and praying, met the tanks. They linked arms until the military men stopped. The people cheered and cried. Some people began to sing, and "People Power" was born, according to DYNASTY. - As more tanks began to come in, Marcos offered absolute amnesty to rebel troops if they surrendered right away. Enrile asked to stop the tanks, but Marcos said he couldn't do that. He instead said he would ask the commanders not to shoot. Enrile rejected the offer. - Radyo Veritas signed off the air. - Ramos formed the New Armed Forces of the Philippines. Feb. 24 - June Keithley began broadcasting with Radyo Veritas via Radyo Bandido. - Thousands were camped outside the Philippine Constabulary. - Keithley said that soldiers are about to leave for Camp Crame. Ramos appealed for more people on the broadcast. - Marcos accused Enrile and Ramos of wanting to grab power and run a government under a junta. He said they were "guilty of rebellion and inciting to rebellion." - Tear gas bombs exploded outside Camp Aguinaldo. Loyalists march toward civilians led by priests. The civilians held their ground and sang the national anthem. - Sikorskys (helicopters) landed in Crame grounds and came out waving white flags, giving the L sign. Col Antonio Soleto defected with the entire 15th Strike Wing of the Air Force. - Keithley announced that Marcos and his son Bongbong took off from Manila International Airport. She also "falsely" said that Imelda and Ver's wife left Malacañang, leaving Ver alone. - People rejoiced at the news, celebrating in the streets. However, Marcos appeared on TV at 9 a.m. and declared a state of emergency. - Marcos lifted the "maximum tolerance" policy. He said broadcast stations shouldn't share news about military operations without going through the Office of Media Affairs. - Millions took to the streets of EDSA. - Rebel soldiers attacked Malacanang, but the First Family remained safe. Ver ordered to bomb Crame, but the rebel squadron commander answered. - The forces of the people secured control over Channel 4. - Marines were blocked in a stand-off in Libis by students of Ateneo, who refused to budge. At the last minute, priests told the students to give way. - Batasan members planned to create a new government in Doy Laurel's residence. - For the first time in almost three years, Bayan Ko, considered an opposition song, played on the government radio. - Kilusang Bagong Lipunan members signed a proclamation of Aquino and Laurel. - Aquino spoke at the Philippine Overseas Employment Agency Building: "We have encouraged our freedoms, our rights, and our dignity with much courage and, we thank God, with little blood. I enjoin the people to keep the spirit of peace as we remove the last vestiges of tyranny, to be firm and compassionate. Let us not, now that we have won, descend to the level of the evil forces we have defeated." - A provisional government was set up. - Ver and Ramas launched a final "suicide assault" on the rebels. - Former US president Ronald Reagan publicly urged Marcos to resign. The US endorsed Aquino's provisional government. - Marcos maintained that he had no intentions of going abroad or resigning, saying he would defend the Palace with the last breath of his life and the last drop of his blood. Feb. 25 - The family possessions—including gold bullion and bonds, millions of pesos, and artifacts and jewelry, as per Worth Dying For—were being packed in Malacañang. - Marcos canceled orders to attack Crame with mortars. - Former US senator Paul Laxalt called Marcos about whether the "transition" was real. Imelda called former First Lady Nancy Reagan to ask what Reagan's message was about. - According to QUARTET, Marcos asked Laxalt if he should step down. "Mr. President, I'm not bound by diplomatic restraint. I'm only talking for myself. I think you should cut, and cut cleanly. The time has come." Marcos said he was "very very disappointed." - Imelda did not want to leave, Marcos told Blas Ople, who was in Washington. - Marcos called off the firing at Crame. His family called on him to leave. Imelda resisted, but later agreed. Son-in-law Tommy Manotoc, husband of Sen. Imee Marcos, called a friend at the US Embassy. - As Aquino was getting ready for her inauguration at Club Filipino, Times St. was attacked. She told her children to pack. - Marcos called Enrile, proposing they organize a provisional government where he would stay president until 1987. Enrile declined. - Aides were preparing for the First Family to travel north. - Crowds flocked to Club Filipino, chanting "Cory!" as she arrived. She was in a bright yellow linen outfit with cut-work sleeves, diamond earrings, and a black-strap watch. - At 10:40 a.m., Laurel took his oath of office as VP before Supreme Court Justice Vicente Abad Santos. - Aquino was sworn in at 10:46 a.m. by Senior Supreme Court Justice Claudio Teehankee. - The Lord's Prayer was sung, then Bayan Ko. Enrile and Ramos sang along and even raised a Laban sign. - "It is fitting and proper that if the rights and liberties of our people were taken away at midnight 14 years ago, the people should recover their lost rights and liberties in the full light of day," Cory said, as per Time. - Aquino appointed Laurel as Prime Minister, Enrile as Defense Minister, and Ramos as Chief of Staff of the New Armed Forces. - Marcos held his own inauguration in Malacañang. He was sworn in by Chief Justice Ramon Aquino. He wore an elegant barong, while Imelda, Irene, and Imee were in white terno, and Bongbong in a military fatigue uniform. 2,000 attended, cheering "Marcos Pa Rin!" - Cardinal Sin pledged his support to Aquino's government. - In Tomas Morato, loyalist soldiers fired at crowds, forcing through the barricades. The people held their ground, forcing loyalists to find their way out of the side streets. - Malacañang was under siege after a skirmish at Nagtahan. - Manotoc shared Brig. Gen. Ted Allen's offer of transport to the Marcoses. A Malacañang retelling said Marcos was feverish. - Between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., Marcos called Enrile to appeal to stop people from firing at the Palace. He said he wanted to evacuate. - The first family packed their things, accepting the US Embassy's offer of transportation. "Things were in an uproar, all of us running around, grabbing possessions, shouting last-minute instructions, trying to remember admonitions," Marcos aide Col Arturo Aruiza said, as per a Malacañang account. - At around 9:05 p.m., helicopters carrying the Marcos family and Ver and his sons flew from the Palace. - Crowds in Mendiola, Nagtahan Bridge, Mandaluyong, and more celebrated after news came that Marcos fled. DZRH was the first to announce the news at 9:52 p.m. There was dancing in the streets, fireworks, and horns honking along EDSA. - People in Mendiola stormed the Palace gates, leaving civilian Marcos loyalists fleeing.


--- [Corazon Aquino (11th President of the Philippines) - On This Day] ---
Profession: 11th President of the Philippines Biography: Named the “Mother of Philippine Democracy”, Aquino was the 1st woman to become President of the Philippines and the most prominent figure of the 1986 People Power Revolution that toppled the 20-year authoritarian rule of Ferdinand Marcos. Corazon Aquino was wife of prominent opposition politician Benigno Aquino and when he was assassinated in 1983 and Marco's government implicated, she rose to political prominence. In February 1986, Marcos announced a snap election and Aquino ran against him in an election marred by corrupt practices and violence. Aquino contested the declaration of Marcos' win and when the military supported her, Marcos and his supporters fled the country. Some of Aquino's first efforts in power were to create a Constitutional Commission to draft a new constitution, giving strong emphasis to civil liberties. Aquino also set up a Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) in an attempt to retrieve President Marcos’s ill-gotten wealth. Throughout her term Aquino focused on restoring the country's dented economic reputation while also focusing on peace talks to try to resolve the ongoing Communist insurgency and Islamist secession movements. Born: January 25, 1933 Birthplace: Paniqui, Tarlac, Philippines Generation: Silent Generation Chinese Zodiac: Monkey Star Sign: Aquarius Died: August 1, 2009 (aged 76) Cause of Death: Colon cancer Historical Events - 1986-02-05 ABC's "Nightline" airs interviews with Filipino presidential candidates Corazon Aquino and Ferdinand Marcos - 1986-02-07 Corazon Aquino defeats incumbent Filipino dictator Ferdinand Marcos but fraudulent returns gave the election to Marcos - 1986-02-15 National Assembly of the Philippines proclaims Ferdinand Marcos President for six more years after rigged elections against Corazon Aquino, supercharging the EDSA people power revolution - 1986-02-25 Corazon Aquino becomes President of the Philippines; dictator Ferdinand Marcos flees the country - 2010-08-01 200 m x 250 m photo mosaic commemorating the life of Filipino President Corazon Aquino is unveiled near Quirino Grandstand at Luneta Park, Manila Personal Life - 1954-10-11 Philippine president Corazon Aquino (21) weds Tarlac governor Benigno Aquino Jr (22) in Pasay City, Philippines References - Marcos Is Named Winner; Reagan Questions Victory : Aquino Backers Leave Assembly in Philippines - Los Angeles Times


--- [Key players in the 1986 People Power Revolution - RAPPLER] ---
SUMMARY This is AI generated summarization, which may have errors. For context, always refer to the full article. MANILA, Philippines – The month of February marks the anniversary of the 1986 People Power Revolution. The 4-day event from February 22 to 25 will forever be etched in history as the “bloodless” revolution, which culminated with the end of a dictatorship that was also marked by human rights violations. Thousands of Filipinos took to the streets and clamored for freedom from the two-decade iron fist rule of then president Ferdinand Marcos. Rappler recalls the prominent figures of that period and the roles they played during the people’s revolt and revisits their post-EDSA lives. Corazon Aquino Corazon Aquino, a self-proclaimed housewife, became a prominent figure of the opposition after the death in 1983 of her husband, also the staunchest critic of Marcos, Benigno Aquino Jr. Her loss in the presidential snap elections against Marcos in 1986 was widely believed to have been attended by fraud, sparking a “People Power Revolution”. The 4-day uprising ended with her taking her oath as the 11th president of the Philippines. Aquino served as president from 1986 until 1991, her administration hounded by several coup attempts, the Mendiola massacre, and power blackouts. In 2008, she was diagnosed with colorectal cancer and died in 2009 at age 76. Following her death, people clamored for her only son Benigno Aquino III to run for president under the Liberal Party (LP) in 2010. LP’s original presidential candidate, then senator Manuel “Mar” Roxas II, gave way to Aquino and eventually became his vice presidential running mate. Ferdinand Marcos Ferdinand Marcos held on the presidency from 1965 until the uprising forced him and his family to leave the country in 1986. His two-decade rule saw the imposition of Martial Law and various human rights abuses – especially against those he deemed critical of the government. As disdain for his administration grew, Marcos called for a snap election in 1985 with Arturo Tolentino as his running mate. In 1986, he won but faced allegations of tampered results to favor him over then opposition bet Corazon Aquino. He, however, maintained that he had won a 4th term amid the growing supporters of the opposition and defecting government officials as reflected during the People Power Revolution. In February 25, Marcos took oath as president in Malacanang Palace but, together with his family and close allies, fled to Hawaii with the help of United States authorities later that day. Marcos died after two years in exile on September 28, 1989. His body was flown to the Philippines – and later interred inside a crypt in his bailiwick Ilocos Norte – in 1993. In 2016, after the victory of President Rodrigo Duterte, the long-running issue of whether or not former president Ferdinand Marcos should be buried at the Libingan ng mga Bayani (Heroes’ Cemetery) has finally been put to rest. Marcos was stealthily buried at the Heroes’ Cemetery past noon on November 28, 2016 with full military honors. (TIMELINE: The Marcos burial controversy) Imelda Marcos and the Marcos children, Bongbong, Imee, and Irene Imelda Marcos spent most of her time as First Lady projecting the Philippines to the world through extravagant events and infrastructure such as the Cultural Center of the Philippines and the controversial Manila Film Center. But the so-called Steel Butterfly is also famous for her vast shoe collection which was reported to contain more than 1,000 pairs. After 6 years in exile and two years since her husband’s death, she was allowed to go back to the Philippines in 1991. Her political aspirations pushed her to run for president during the 1992 presidential elections but she lost. Three years after, she was elected first district representative of Leyte. Among the Marcos children who spent a huge part of their childhood living a privileged life as presidential children, two are also serving as government officials along with their mother. Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr., only son and namesake of the late dictator, is now Philippine president after winning in the 2022 national elections. Former presidential daughter and Davao City mayor Sara Duterte is his vice president. Prior to winning the presidency, Marcos already enjoyed a long career in government. He served as Ilocos Norte governor and representative before being elected to the Senate in 2013. In 2016, he ran for vice president alongside then-senator Miriam Defensor Santiago but lost to the Liberal Party’s Leni Robredo. He beat Robredo in the 2022 presidential elections. Imee Marcos, who had held government positions during her father’s regime – Kabataang Barangay head and Ilocos Norte Assemblywoman from 1984 to 1986 – returned to politics as 2nd district representative of their bailiwick in 1998. She then became Ilocos Norte governor and in 2019, won as senator. Defense minister Juan Ponce Enrile Juan Ponce Enrile is regarded as the architect and implementer of martial law as defense minister under Marcos. But after the 1986 snap election, he, together with then Lt General Fidel Ramos, publicly declared withdrawal of support for Marcos. Enrile later served as National Defense secretary but eventually resigned in the latter part of 1986. He later became a senator in 1987 and in 1995. In 2014, Enrile was indicted for plunder and graft before the Sandiganbayan in relation to the misuse of the Priorirty Development Assistance (PDAF) Fund. He was detained, and after more than a year, regained temporary liberty after posting bail amounting to P1.45 million ($30,462.50)* in 2015. (TIMELINE: Enrile and the pork barrel scam) Enrile ran but lost in the 2019 senatorial elections. He now serves as chief presidential legal counsel of President Marcos. Fidel V. Ramos Fidel V. Ramos was the AFP Vice Chief and also the Philippine Constabulary chief under the Marcos administration. In February 1986, he resigned and withdrew support from the government to support the rebel soldiers. He and Enrile were called out over radio by Marcos, who asked them to “stop this stupidity.” Ramos was appointed AFP chief of staff and later National Defense secretary under the Aquino administration, defending it against several coup attempts. In 1992, he ran for president with the support of Aquino and eventually won against Miriam Defensor Santiago, Ramon Mitra Jr, and former First Lady Imelda Marcos, among others. He got 24% of the votes. It was during his presidency when the Philippines 2000 socio-economic program was implemented. Ramos was also instrumental in the second EDSA Revolution against then president Joseph Estrada in 2001. Ramos died at the age of 94 on July 31, 2022. Fabian Ver Fabian Ver was AFP chief under Marcos and was accused of masterminding the assassination of Benigno Aquino Jr. He, together with other soldiers implicated by the fact-finding commission, was acquitted in 1985. A known strong ally of the dictator who often clashed with Enrile and Ramos, Ver stood with Marcos throughout the non-violent revolution from February 22 to 25. Several accounts said that he, together with Bongbong Marcos, continually urged the president to blow up rebel camps. Loyal until the end, Ver and his family fled with the Marcoses and other cronies to Hawaii as Marcos’ 21-year rule came to an end. He did not return to the Philippines as Ramos and Aquino considered him a threat to national security. Ver died in 1998 in Bangkok and was buried in his hometown of Sarrat, Ilocos Norte. Reform the Armed Forces Movement The Reform the Armed Forces Movement (RAM) was formed in 1982 by junior military officers who were against corruption and cronyism in the AFP. The movement was also considered an important player in the revolt against the Marcos dictatorship. RAM helped Enrile plan a mutiny but was later foiled. It was then when Enrile enlisted the help of Ramos. Among the members of RAM were Enrile’s aide-de-camp at the time, Gregorio “Gringo” Honasan II, and Lt Col Eduardo “Red” Kapunan. The bemoustached Honasan would later lead at least two unsuccessful coup attempts against the very person he and his group supported for the presidency. He was also accused of masterminding the 2003 Oakwood mutiny against the administration of then president Gloria Macapacal Arroyo. Honasan has been a senator for 4 terms already, first running as independent in 1995. He faced a graft complaint over the PDAF scam. In 2016, he ran for the vice presidency under the United Nationalist Alliance of then-vice president Jejomar Binay. In 2018, he was appointed as secretary of the Department of Information Communications and Technology. Honasan ran for senator under the ticket of Marcos-Duterte in the 2022 elections but failed to make it in the top 12. Kapunan, meanwhile, was implicated in the murder of labor leader Rolando Olalia and Leonor Alay-ay in November 1986. He was detained in 2012 but was released on bail in 2014. In 2017, Kapunan became the Philippine ambassador to Myanmar. Jaime Cardinal Sin The late Jaime Cardinal Sin was instrumental in rallying thousands of Filipinos to flock to EDSA during the people’s revolt against the Marcos dictatorship. On February 22, the Manila Archbishop rallied people to support Ramos, Enrile, and other rebel soldiers. He aired his plea for food and other aid over Radio Veritas – the Catholic Church-owned radio station which broadcast developments in the uprising against Marcos in February 1986. His plea came after his conversation with Enrile regarding his plans and the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines’ condemnation of the fraudulent snap election. He once again played a big role during another people’s revolt in 2001 against Estrada. In 2005, Sin died due to renal failure at the age of 76. Salvador P. Laurel Salvador P. Laurel was a leader of the United Nationalist Democratic Organization (Unido), the primary opposition party during the Marcos administration. Despite him being named as the party’s presidential candidate, Laurel stepped aside and gave way to Aquino. He joined her campaign as vice presidential candidate. They both lost, however, in a fraud-marred snap election which eventually led to the People Power Revolution. On February 25, Laurel took his oath as vice president at Club Filipino. In 1992, he failed to win the presidency after Aquino threw her support behind Ramos. He later served as chairman of the Philippine National Centennial Commission from 1996 to 1999. He was charged with graft in relation to the Centennial Expo in the Clark Freeport Zone in Pampanga. He denied the charges. Laurel spent most of his private life after retiring from politics in the United States where he died from lymphoma in 2004. Arturo Tolentino Arturo Tolentino was Marcos’ vice presidential running mate during the 1986 snap elections against Aquino and Laurel. He won but the results were suspect. Tolentino later launched a coup stating that he was “constitutionally the acting president”, and together with Marcos allies, barricaded the Manila Hotel on July 8, 1986. He, however, did not get the huge support he was expecting and eventually dispersed the crowd two days after. He won a Senate seat in 1992 and retired from politics in 1995. Tolentino died of a heart attack in 2004. – Rappler.com How does this make you feel?


--- [Corazon Aquino] ---
María Corazón "Cory" Sumulong Cojuangco-Aquino  (Tagalog: [kɔɾaˈsɔn kɔˈhwaŋkɔ aˈkino]; January 25, 1933 – August 1, 2009) was the 11th president of the Philippines, serving from 1986 to 1992. The first female president in Philippine history, Aquino was the most prominent figure of the 1986 People Power Revolution, which ended the two-decade rule of President Ferdinand Marcos and led to the establishment of the current democratic Fifth Philippine Republic. She has been regarded by media outlets as the "Mother of Democracy".
Aquino was married to Senator Benigno Aquino Jr., a prominent critic of President Marcos. The couple have five children, including 15th president Benigno Aquino III and entertainer Kris Aquino. After the assassination of her husband on August 21, 1983, she emerged as leader of the opposition against the president. In late 1985, Marcos called for a snap election, and Aquino ran for president with former Senator Salvador Laurel as her running mate for vice president. After the February 7, 1986, presidential election, the Batasang Pambansa proclaimed Marcos and his running mate Arturo Tolentino as the winners, which prompted allegations of electoral fraud and Aquino's call for massive civil disobedience actions. 
Subsequently, the People Power Revolution, a non-violent mass demonstration movement, took place from February 22 to 25. With support from the Philippine Catholic Church and defections from the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the People Power Revolution ousted Marcos, and Aquino, with no prior political experience, was sworn in to the presidency on February 25, 1986.
As president, Aquino spearheaded the development of the 1987 Constitution, which limited the powers of the presidency and re-established the bicameral Congress, removing the previous dictatorial government structure. The constitution also affirmed social justice and equality as guiding principles of national development, reinforcing efforts to promote civil liberties, democratic participation, and social cohesion following the end of authoritarian rule. Her economic policies focused on forging good economic standing amongst the international community as well as disestablishing Marcos-era crony capitalist monopolies, emphasizing the free market and responsible economy. Her administration pursued peace talks to resolve the Moro conflict, and the result of these talks was creation of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao.
Aquino was criticized for the Mendiola Massacre, which resulted in the shooting deaths of at least 12 peaceful protesters by Philippine state security forces. The Philippines faced various natural calamities in the latter part of Aquino's administration, such as the 1990 Luzon earthquake, 1991 Mt. Pinatubo eruption and Tropical Storm Thelma. Several coup attempts were made against her government. She left office in 1992 and remained active in political activities. Aquino was diagnosed with colorectal cancer in 2008 and died the following year. Her funeral was the subject of global media coverage, and monuments and public landmarks in the country were named in her honor.


