=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jessica Rankin and Julie Mehretu Were Partners, Then Friends - The New ...]
Apr 12, 2021 · From left: JESSICA RANKIN, artist, 50; and JULIE MEHRETU, artist, 50. Photographed at Rankin’s home in Harlem, Manhattan, on Dec. 15, 2020. Two artists who’ve stayed close, even as the terms ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/12/t-magazine/jessica-rankin-partners-friends.html

[Julie Mehretu - Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist]
Jul 11, 2023 · Mehretu got married to Jessica Rankin in 2008 during the time she was working on the Grey paintings and the Goldman Sachs mural. After finishing the corporate commission, the couple hosted a celebration at Mehretu’s studio and invited many people from the Berlin art scene.
URL: https://artincontext.org/julie-mehretu/

[LGBTQ+ Trailblazers: New York-based artist Julie Mehretu]
Jun 7, 2022 · It was during this time that Mehretu married Australian artist Jessica Rankin, with whom she shares two children. Though the couple are now separated, their artistic practices are still closely connected, each consulting the other on paintings, with Mehretu noting "It's one of the advantages of being queer: You don't have to follow any ...
URL: https://www.withersworldwide.com/en-gb/insight/read/lgbtq-trailblazers-new-york-based-artist-julie-mehretu

[Julie Mehretu - Life, Art & Legacy | MutualArt]
That same year marked the beginning of a broader institutional embrace of artists addressing globalization, migration, and urban transformation—themes central to her practice. In 2006, she married Australian artist Jessica Rankin; the couple had two children before separating in 2014.
URL: https://www.mutualart.com/Artist/Julie-Mehretu/A9852858B001E141/Biography

[Twenty Three Love Stories | Out.com]
Apr 25, 2011 · It's infinitely more complicated and infinitely more wonderful. JULIE MEHRETU, ARTIST: After the first year we were together, I knew Jessica was the person I wanted to be with.
URL: https://www.out.com/weddings/2011/4/25/twenty-three-love-stories


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jessica Rankin and Julie Mehretu Were Partners, Then Friends - The New ...] ---
Partners, Now Friends Two artists who’ve stayed close, even as the terms of their relationship have evolved. Interview by Julia Berick Photograph by Meghan Marin Supported by Partners, Now Friends Jessica Rankin: We met in 2000 in a bar, and got married in 2008. From the start, we were in sync in terms of the way we look at art: the way we think about it and the way it weaves itself through our lives. It’s a conversation that started and never really stopped. When you spend time watching someone work, you get a sense of what they’re striving for, and you trust that they feel that in your work, too. When relationships change, as ours did in 2014 when we separated, you inevitably have to take some space, but it didn’t last that long for us. Julie is one of the people I trust most to talk about my work with, so it was impossible to maintain any kind of distance. Julie Mehretu: There were times when we gave each other more space, but in the middle of that, it was always, “Can you come down and take a look at this?” J.R.: Like, “Let’s just put everything aside and be artists together right now.” And at the beginning of the pandemic, it was spring break for our two sons, so we thought, “Ah, look, we’ll just all go upstate.” J.M.: We hadn’t lived together in that way since the separation. We still vacationed together, but now we’re both living in Jessica’s house because of the pandemic, and because my house is under construction. That’s been a special part of quarantine. I think the traditional marriages and partnerships that we envision are very specific to the West. But being queer, you’re constantly inventing everything. We had our first son in 2005, before we were married — before we were even allowed to be married. When you live in a world that can be very dictatorial and prescriptive of how to be in a relationship, it can be hard to find the freedom to live in a different way. It’s one of the advantages of being queer: You don’t have to follow any prescription of what marriage or divorce looks like. It’s something we talk to our children a lot about: The untangling of a romantic relationship is really different than thinking of it as a divorce. There were moments of healing for us, but our children, and our desire to be a family, are what made our separation amicable. Relationships change, but you can maintain deep partnerships and remain family — and those families can expand and evolve. We’ve always been committed to that. At top, from left: JESSICA RANKIN wears a Dsquared2 shirt, $585, and pants, $910, dsquared2.com/us; H&M socks, $4, hm.com; Adidas shoes, $53, adidas.com; and her own jewelry and T-shirt. JULIE MEHRETU wears a Nostra Santissima sweater, $418, shopuntitled.com; Rick Owens pants, $735, rickowens.eu; Suzanne Felsen necklace, $800, suzannefelsen.com; Dsquared2 cuff, $100; Feit boots, $1,250, feitdirect.com; and her own earrings and rings. Interviews have been edited and condensed. Stylist: Keita K Lovelace. Hair and makeup: Maryia Tychynskaya Related Content Advertisement


--- [Julie Mehretu - Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist] ---
Julie Mehretu – Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist Julie Mehretu is a contemporary artist whose complex abstract landscapes explore humanity’s connectedness through identity and place. Her multi-layered and chaotic mark-making considers the cumulative effects of urban sociopolitical change of specific places over time. In this article, we take a closer look at the life and work of Julie Mehretu, an artist that was included in Time magazine’s list of 100 most influential people in 2020. Artist in Context: Who Is Julie Mehretu? Julie Mehretu, an Ethiopian-American painter, creates multi-layered, large-scale abstract landscapes that captivate audiences worldwide. Mehretu’s work explores migration, displacement, and cultural identity through unique layering and composition. For her innovative contributions to contemporary art, she has been honored with multiple awards. She is one of her generation’s most influential artists, inspiring and challenging audiences worldwide. | Date of Birth | 16 November 1970 | | Country of Birth | Addis Ababa, Ethiopia | | Art Movements | Contemporary art | | Mediums Used | Painting, drawing, and printmaking | Inside the Studio with Julie Mehretu (2020) filmed and published by Galerie Magazine; Galerie Magazine, CC BY 3.0, via Wikimedia Commons Childhood Julie Mehretu was born the first of three children in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on November 16, 1970. Assefa Mehretu, her father, was an Ethiopian professor of economic geography, and Doree Mehretu, her mother, was an American teacher and Peace Corps volunteer. As a child, Mehretu immersed herself in Ethiopia’s culture and history. Mehretu’s family was forced to flee Ethiopia when she was seven years old due to political unrest. They relocated to the United States, where Mehretu attended East Lansing High School in Michigan. As a young girl, she spent most of her time drawing in notebooks. Mehretu remained connected to her Ethiopian heritage despite being uprooted from her homeland at a young age. Her family and community exposed her to traditional Ethiopian music and dance, and this influence can be seen in some of her later artwork. Mehretu’s parents supported her artistic interests and encouraged her to pursue them. Her mother, in particular, was a strong role model for her and helped shape her worldview. Mehretu has stated that her mother’s experiences with the Peace Corps and traveling around the world inspired her to explore themes of migration, displacement, and cultural identity in her artwork. Mogamma (A Painting in Four Parts), (2012) by Julie Mehretu; Ksd13, CC BY-SA 3.0, via Wikimedia Commons Education After High School, Julie Mehretu went on to study art at Kalamazoo College in Michigan, where she earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1992. She initially spent a year as an exchange student, studying abroad at Cheikh Anta Diop University in Dakar, Senegal, where she was inspired by the work of local artisans. Upon her return, Mehretu explained that she had a renewed determination. She was introduced to printmaking at Kalamazoo and began experimenting with various techniques such as etching and lithography. Mehretu went on to earn an MFA from the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) after graduating from Kalamazoo. At RISD, she continued to concentrate on printmaking while also dabbling in painting and drawing. She was especially interested in investigating the relationship between architecture and landscape, and she began incorporating architectural drawings and diagrams into her work. Mehretu collaborated with several influential artists and instructors at RISD and was especially influenced by her teacher Michael Young. Early Career Mehretu moved to New York City to pursue her career as an artist after receiving her MFA from the RISD in 1997. At first, she had to juggle odd jobs with her art-making to make ends meet. Despite the challenges, Mehretu was determined to make a name for herself as an artist. Two of Mehretu’s artworks were chosen to be included in the Exit Art exhibition in SoHo in 1999 and she participated in several group shows, including the Museum of Modern Art’s Greater New York exhibition in 2000. The following year, Mehretu was invited to an artist residency at the Studio Museum in Harlem. Merethy quickly became one of the most influential artists working in America and her work piqued the interest of various collectors and art dealers, including Christian Haye of The Project Gallery in Harlem. Her 2001 solo show at The Project Gallery sold out before the opening. A Presentation by Julie Mehretu (2014); Columbia GSAPP, CC BY 2.0, via Wikimedia Commons Mehretu developed her signature style of layering abstract shapes and lines to create complex, multi-dimensional compositions during this time. Her paintings were influenced by her travels to various cities and navigating unfamiliar environments. She was also influenced by her Ethiopian heritage and the political unrest that had forced her family to flee the country. Mehretu’s practice evolved further during a six-month residency in Berlin in 2006. After Mehretu was unhappy with the results of a paint layer she had applied to one of her works, she began to experiment with erasing specific areas in order to reveal the underlying drawings and paintings. In 2010, the Guggenheim Museum in New York exhibited a series of paintings based on these experiments called Grey Area (2007-2009). Following these works, Mehretu was awarded a five million dollar commission by Goldman Sachs to create a work for the lobby of their headquarters. Mehretu titled the 80-foot-long commission simply Mural (2010). Art critic Calvin Tomkins famously called the work “the most ambitious painting [he’d] seen in a dozen years”. Mature Career Mehretu got married to Jessica Rankin in 2008 during the time she was working on the Grey paintings and the Goldman Sachs mural. After finishing the corporate commission, the couple hosted a celebration at Mehretu’s studio and invited many people from the Berlin art scene. Since this time, Julie Mehretu’s mature career has been marked by critical acclaim and widespread recognition. Her work has been shown at major museums around the world, including the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Museum of Modern Art in San Francisco, and the Tate Modern in London. One of Mehretu’s most significant projects is a monumental mural commissioned for the lobby of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. The mural, titled “HOWL, eon (I, II),” consists of two panels that each measure 27 feet high by 32 feet wide and was completed in 2017. The mural, composed of multiple layers of abstract shapes and lines, is an expansive exploration of the violent colonial histories of the American West and its sublime landscapes. Mehretu has created works on paper, prints, and other multimedia projects in addition to her large-scale paintings and murals. She has worked on a number of public art commissions, including murals for the US Embassy in Berlin, and has collaborated with architects, designers, and musicians. Mehretu’s work has earned her numerous awards and honors, including a MacArthur Fellowship in 2005 and a US Department of State Medal of Arts in 2015. She has also been recognized for her activism and philanthropy, and she has used her platform to advocate for social justice and to support a wide range of charitable causes. Three Important Julie Mehretu Artworks Julie Mehretu has produced an abundance of impressive paintings, drawings, and prints over the past three decades, all of which can be dissected and discussed in greater depth. However, this article focuses on three exceptional works of art that are central to Mehretu’s career and are regarded as seminal. This section is intended to serve as a concise introduction to Julie Mehretu’s extensive body of work over the years. Mogamma (A Painting in Four Parts), (2012) by Julie Mehretu; Ksd13, CC BY-SA 3.0, via Wikimedia Commons Retopistics: A Renegade Excavation (2001) | Artwork Title | Retopistics: A Renegade Excavation | | Date | 2001 | | Medium | Ink and acrylic on canvas | | Size (cm) | 257.5 x 529.5 | | Collection | Private collection | Created in 2001, Retopistics: A Renegade Excavation is one of Julie Mehretu’s earliest and most important works. The sheer size and depth of the many layers of lines of different weights and colored shapes in a range of tones and mediums wrap the viewer in a mesmerizing mix of architecture, history, and space. The work is precariously balanced between lyrical abstraction and free concept, focusing on the various experiences that people have around the world at the same time. At its core, the work is a beautiful mix of forms that seem to come from different places. These forms are laid over a series of airport blueprints from the world’s most important airports, highlighting Mehretu’s interest in the globalization of experience. The work is notable for its depth, complexity, and striking use of texture and color. Mural (2010) | Artwork Title | Mural | | Date | 2010 | | Medium | Ink, acrylic, and silica on canvas | | Size (m) | 25 x 7 | | Collection | Goldman Sachs Building, New York City, United States | Mural (2010) is a monumental painting situated at the entrance lobby of the Goldman Sachs tower in Manhattan. Goldman Sachs commissioned the work in 2007, but Mehretu took six months to decide whether or not to take on the project due to other exhibition commitments that filled her schedule. At the time, she was on residency at the American Academy in Berlin where she worked on a series of paintings, called Grey Area (2007 – 2009). In order to create these works, Mehretu pioneered a new method of painting in which he would erase portions of a painting in order to expose the drawing or painting underneath. This new technique inspired her so much that she decided to take on the five million dollar commission from Goldman Sachs. Mehretu claimed that her goal with the mural was to evoke the global economy’s layered convergences and paradoxes. The painting, like most of Mehretu’s, is composed of several distinct layers. The base layer consists of architectural drawings related to finance, including drawings of an early Massachusetts bank, the New Orleans cotton exchange, the New York Stock Exchange’s façade, and a market gate from the ancient Greek city of Miletus. On top of this layer are geometric shapes of various sizes and colors, dynamically sweeping in from different angles across the surface of the canvas. The final layer consists of small black calligraphic marks arranged in formations that evoke moving crowds. The overall effect seems to recall the ebb and flow of a city’s economy. HOWL, eon (I, II) (2017) | Artwork Title | HOWL, eon (I, II) | | Date | 2017 | | Medium | Ink and acrylic on canvas | | Size (cm) | Two panels of 823 x 975,4 | | Collection | San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, San Francisco, United States | HOWL, eon (I, II) is a massive mural commissioned for the lobby of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art that was completed in 2017. In this work, Mehretu considered the competing urges of destruction and preservation at the heart of nineteenth-century expansion in the American West. In particular, the mural examines how colonialism, capitalism, class struggle, social protest, and technological advancement have all left their marks on the physical landscape of the Bay Area. The mural is made up of a base layer of digital reproductions of race riots, street protests, and pictures of the American West from the 1800s. This base layer is covered with thick, bright layers of paint and ink that were applied with brushes, spray paint, and screen printing. The layered tangles of abstract gestures and erasures show a landscape that is always changing because of physical movement and struggle. This work remind us of how chaos, exploitation, and hope all played a role in making the American West what it is today. Reading Recommendations Audiences have been captivated by Julie Mehretu’s large-scale paintings, prints, and drawings. Her dynamic and layered artworks incorporate a whirlwind of signs, symbols, and motifs into immersive compositions that often begin with architectural drawings and sketches. Below we recommend three books that delve deeper into the life and art of Julie Mehretu. Julie Mehretu: The Drawings (2007) by Catherine De Zegher Despite Julie Mehretu’s reputation as a painter, it is her drawings that really propel her career; she completes dozens of ambitious drawings every year, while she generally never exceeds ten paintings in a year. Mehretu’s work is as dynamic as her subjects, exploring how people understand their place in the world through their identification with different communities or experiences of different places. This book is the most wide-ranging survey of Julie Merethu’s drawing till date. Inside the Studio with Julie Mehretu (2020) filmed and published by Galerie Magazine; Galerie Magazine, CC BY 3.0, via Wikimedia Commons - A detailed collection of the drawings that propelled Mehretu's career - Explore the link between people and their place in their world - Understand the background of these famous Mehretu drawings Julie Mehretu: City Sitings (2009) by Siemon Allen, Kinsey Katchka, and Rebecca Hart Five works from Julie Mehretu’s series City Sitings are explored in this book. This series of paintings were all created for Mehretu’s exhibition at the Institute of Arts in Detroit. In these works, architectural plans and corporate logos are hidden within the seemingly abstract compositions. The process of urban change is reflected in Mehretu’s work through the use of addition and subtraction. By condensing a city’s unique vitality and history, Mehretu offers viewers a fresh perspective on their immediate surroundings. - Explore the process of urban change through this collection - A collection of five works from the City Sittings series - Look out for the hidden architectural plans and corporate logos In the past 30 years, Julie Mehretu has become one of the most influential figures in the American art scene. Mehretu’s career has been defined by a commitment to experimentation and innovation, as well as a commitment to using her art to address important social and political issues. She is widely considered to be one of the most important artists of her generation, and her work continues to inspire and challenge viewers all over the world. Frequently Asked Questions What Is Julie Mehretu Known For? Julie Mehretu is well-known for her multi-layered and large-scale abstract landscape paintings. Her works are distinguished by their intricate compositions and striking use of color and texture. She has also explored themes of migration, displacement, and cultural identity throughout her career. Where Was Julie Mehretu Born? Julie Mehretu was born in 1970 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Due to political unrest, her family was forced to flee the country when she was a child, and she spent her formative years in East Lansing, Michigan. Julie Mehretu arrived in the United States in 1977. What Education Does Julie Mehretu Have? Julie Mehretu received her BFA in 1992 from Kalamazoo College in Michigan, and her MFA in 1997 from the Rhode Island School of Design. Chrisél Attewell (b. 1994) is a multidisciplinary artist from South Africa. Her work is research-driven and experimental. Inspired by current socio-ecological concerns, Attewell’s work explores the nuances in people’s connection to the Earth, to other species, and to each other. She works with various mediums, including installation, sculpture, photography, and painting, and prefers natural materials, such as hemp canvas, oil paint, glass, clay, and stone. She received her BAFA (Fine Arts, Cum Laude) from the University of Pretoria in 2016 and is currently pursuing her MA in Visual Arts at the University of Johannesburg. Her work has been represented locally and internationally in numerous exhibitions, residencies, and art fairs. Attewell was selected as a Sasol New Signatures finalist (2016, 2017) and a Top 100 finalist for the ABSA L’Atelier (2018). Attewell was selected as a 2018 recipient of the Young Female Residency Award, founded by Benon Lutaaya. Her work was showcased at the 2019 and 2022 Contemporary Istanbul with Berman Contemporary and her latest solo exhibition, titled Sociogenesis: Resilience under Fire, curated by Els van Mourik, was exhibited in 2020 at Berman Contemporary in Johannesburg. Attewell also exhibited at the main section of the 2022 Investec Cape Town Art Fair. Learn more about Chrisél Attwell and the Art in Context Team. Cite this Article Chrisél, Attewell, “Julie Mehretu – Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist.” Art in Context. July 11, 2023. URL: https://artincontext.org/julie-mehretu/ Attewell, C. (2023, 11 July). Julie Mehretu – Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist. Art in Context. https://artincontext.org/julie-mehretu/ Attewell, Chrisél. “Julie Mehretu – Explore the Life and Art of this Contemporary Artist.” Art in Context, July 11, 2023. https://artincontext.org/julie-mehretu/.


--- [LGBTQ+ Trailblazers: New York-based artist Julie Mehretu] ---
Our trailblazer spotlight takes in the colossal scale of the work of Ethiopian-born New York-based artist Julie Mehretu. Best known for her dense abstract canvases sparking arcs of geometric colour and with mark making reminiscent of architectural plans, aerial maps and urban landscapes, Mehretu describes her work as ‘story maps of no location’.1 Following a peripatetic journey herself, her family fled political violence from the Ethiopian military junta known as the Derg, settling in Michigan when Mehretu was 7. She acknowledges: "Coming from this African background, you're the children of people who were there during decolonisation, when the world really fundamentally shifted ... Now we're all dislocated ... and there's this constant negotiating of place, space, ideals, ideas." 2 Mehretu developed these tensions in her arts schooling, with an undergraduate degree where she spent a year in Senegal, then attending the Rhode Island School of Design earning a Master of Fine Arts degree in 1997. Following a move to New York after graduation, Mehretu rapidly established her reputation as a professional painter, exhibiting in a group show at the Museum of Modern Art only three years later. Now a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Mehretu was named one of Time Magazine’s 100 most influential people in 2020; has received the MacArthur ‘genius’ grant; and was awarded the US Department of State Medal of Arts Award in 2015. The largest of her works is entitled Mural, situated in the foyer of Goldman Sachs’ New York headquarters. Mehretu accepted the commission in part due to the mural’s location in the firm’s glass lobby, which afforded the work to be publicly viewable from the street, and which, at 80 feet long and 23 feet high, was at a scale otherwise unreachable. It was during this time that Mehretu married Australian artist Jessica Rankin, with whom she shares two children. Though the couple are now separated, their artistic practices are still closely connected, each consulting the other on paintings, with Mehretu noting "It's one of the advantages of being queer: You don't have to follow any prescription of what marriage or divorce looks like."3 Mehretu's various accolades have contributed to auction sales of up to $6.5 million for a single painting in 2021, but in a rare legal twist private sales have also been revealed. The artist's work was the subject of a case brought before the New York Supreme Court, Lehmann v. The Project Worldwide which was the first claim to be brought by a collector in respect of a right for first refusal. In return for a loan to a gallery, a collector was to receive both a discount and a first refusal on works by artists represented by the gallery. Upon the sale of Mehretu’s works without notification to the collector, he filed suit. The judge ruled in the collector’s favour with damages of over $1.7 million, and the process of the proceedings revealed the purchase prices that the gallery offered collectors for Mehretu’s works of up to $51,000 for a painting – information normally concealed by the art world.4 Mehretu’s art first impacted me when slipping away from the industrial bustle of Pittsburgh into the cool quiet of Carnegie Museum of Art, where I worked briefly as a teaching assistant alongside graduate studies. Within the permanent collection, her work ‘Stadia II’ is a vortex of bright banners, confetti and echoes of amphitheatres recalling spaces of crowds and life – indeed, she refers to her shoals of marks as ‘communities’. 12 feet by 9 feet, it’s easy to get swept up in the layered rabble, and with noticing something new with each visit, Mehretu sets the viewer off on a lifetime of looking. View some of Julie Mehretu’s work, and interviews with the artist at the White Cube.


--- [Julie Mehretu - Life, Art & Legacy | MutualArt] ---
Biography Early Life & Education Julie Mehretu, born on November 28, 1970, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, is an Ethiopian American contemporary artist celebrated for her expansive, multi-layered abstract paintings. The daughter of Assefa Mehretu, an Ethiopian geography professor, and Doree Mehretu, a Jewish American Montessori educator, she was immersed in a globally aware, intellectually rich environment from childhood. In 1977, amid political upheaval in Ethiopia, the family emigrated to East Lansing, Michigan, where her father joined the faculty at Michigan State University. She graduated from East Lansing High School and earned a Bachelor of Arts from Kalamazoo College in 1992. During her junior year, she studied at Cheikh Anta Diop University in Dakar, Senegal, an experience that deepened her engagement with African urban landscapes and postcolonial dynamics. She later obtained a Master of Fine Arts from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1997. Key Life Events & Historical Context Mehretu’s artistic vision has been shaped by global movements and personal transitions. In 2005, she was awarded the MacArthur Fellowship, a pivotal recognition that affirmed her role as a transformative voice in contemporary art. That same year marked the beginning of a broader institutional embrace of artists addressing globalization, migration, and urban transformation—themes central to her practice. In 2006, she married Australian artist Jessica Rankin; the couple had two children before separating in 2014. The early 2000s, a period of rapid urbanization and geopolitical flux, deeply informed her visual language, particularly in response to events such as the Iraq War and the expansion of global financial networks. In 2024, her 2001 painting *Untitled* sold for $9.32 million at Sotheby’s Hong Kong, setting a new auction record for an African-born artist and highlighting her growing prominence in the international art market. Influences Mehretu’s work reflects a synthesis of artistic and intellectual traditions. While she has not cited specific mentors, her practice reveals affinities with the gestural intensity of abstract expressionism, the structural logic of Russian Constructivism, and the conceptual rigor of postmodern cartography. Her time in Senegal exposed her to non-Western spatial representations and urban morphologies, which informed her approach to layered, non-linear composition. Additionally, her academic background in geography and her father’s scholarly work subtly shaped her interest in mapping, territory, and movement—elements that would become foundational to her aesthetic. Artistic Career Following her MFA in 1997, Mehretu entered the Core Residency Program at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, a formative experience that provided studio space, critical feedback, and early exhibition opportunities. Her 2001 solo debut at a Harlem gallery resulted in the complete sale of the works before the opening, signaling strong market and critical interest. In 2004, she was included in the Whitney Biennial, a milestone that cemented her presence in the American art landscape. That year also saw the creation of several major works that would come to define her early mature period, establishing her as a leading figure in contemporary abstraction. Artistic Style & Themes Mehretu’s paintings are built through successive layers of ink, acrylic, and pencil, combining architectural schematics, geographic data, and gestural marks to evoke the rhythms of modern life. Her compositions often suggest cityscapes in flux—simultaneously constructed and collapsing—inviting interpretations of migration, capital flow, and collective memory. Works such as *Empirical Construction, Istanbul* (2004), with its integration of Arabic script and calligraphic forms, and the triptych *Stadia I, II, and III* (2004), which abstracts stadium architecture and nationalist symbols, exemplify her exploration of power, spectacle, and civic space. These pieces reflect her sustained inquiry into how history and ideology are inscribed in the built environment. Exhibitions & Representation Mehretu’s work has been presented in major international forums and solo exhibitions at leading institutions. She participated in the 2004 Carnegie International, a significant platform for contemporary practice. Her solo exhibition *City Sitings* premiered at the Detroit Institute of Arts in 2007, followed by *Grey Area*, a critically acclaimed project developed at the Deutsche Guggenheim in Berlin and presented at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York (2008–2009). In 2021, the Whitney Museum of American Art mounted a comprehensive retrospective, dedicating an entire floor to her oeuvre and affirming her status as a defining artist of her generation. She is represented by Marian Goodman Gallery, with long-standing institutional support across North America and Europe. Awards & Accolades In addition to the 2005 MacArthur Fellowship, Mehretu has received numerous accolades recognizing her artistic and cultural contributions. In 2015, she was awarded the Medal of Art by the U.S. Department of State in honor of her role in advancing cultural diplomacy through her work. She has also been a recipient of the American Art Award from the Whitney Museum and a grant from the Ford Foundation, underscoring the interdisciplinary resonance of her practice. Little Known Facts In 2024, Mehretu became the first woman to design a BMW Art Car, transforming the BMW M Hybrid V8 into a dynamic canvas for the 24 Hours of Le Mans. Her design, featuring layered vectors and chromatic depth, mirrored her signature aesthetic. Assigned race number 20, the car overcame mechanical setbacks, was repaired overnight, and completed the grueling endurance race—an outcome that resonated with the themes of resilience and transformation in her art. Legacy Mehretu has redefined the possibilities of abstract painting in the 21st century, influencing a generation of artists who engage with spatial complexity, historical memory, and global systems. Her method of layering disparate visual systems—architectural plans, meteorological data, protest imagery—has inspired practitioners to expand abstraction beyond formalism into socio-political discourse. Artists working at the intersection of cartography, migration, and digital space frequently cite her as a touchstone. Her contributions have helped recalibrate abstract expressionism and conceptual art for a globalized era, bridging aesthetic innovation with urgent cultural questions. Julie Mehretu stands as a pivotal figure whose work not only maps the forces shaping contemporary life but also reimagines how art can embody the layered, interconnected nature of modern existence. Selected Solo Exhibitions 2023 2022 2021 - Julie Mehretu ,Walker Art Center ,Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA - Julie Mehretu: Metoikos (in between paintings) ,Carlier / Gebauer, Berlin ,Berlin, Germany - Julie Mehretu: Metoikos (in between drawings) ,Carlier / Gebauer, Madrid ,Madrid, Spain - Julie Mehretu: Slouching Towards Bethlehem ,BORCH Gallery ,Berlin, Germany - Julie Mehretu ,Whitney Museum of American Art ,Greenwich Village, New York, USA - Julie Mehretu: A Decade of Printmaking at Gemini G.E.L. ,Gemini G.E.L. at Joni Moisant Weyl ,Chelsea, New York, USA 2020 2019 2018 2017 - Spotlight: Julie Mehretu: Epigraph, Damascus ,Norton Museum of Art ,West Palm Beach, Florida, USA - Julie Mehretu: HOWL, eon (I, II) ,SFMOMA, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art ,San Francisco, California, USA - Julie Mehretu: A Universal History Of Everything And Nothing ,Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art ,Porto, Portugal 2016 2015 2014 2013 2008 - Julie Mehretu: City Sitings ,North Carolina Museum of Art ,Raleigh, North Carolina, USA - Julie Mehretu: City Sitings ,Museum of Art, Williams College ,Williamstown, Massachusetts, USA - Works on Paper Gallery: Julie Mehretu — New Drawings ,Kresge Art Museum, Michigan State University ,East Lansing, Michigan, USA Selected Group Exhibitions 2026 - Elective Affinities: Joan Miró and Contemporary Art from the Collection of the Museu Serralves ,Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art ,Porto, Portugal - For Which it Stands… ,Fairfield University Art Museum ,Fairfield, Connecticut, USA - The Print Show Singapore 2026 ,STPI – Creative Workshop & Gallery ,Singapore, Singapore - Group Exhibition ,Krakow Witkin Gallery ,Newbury Street, Boston, Massachusetts, USA - Between Matter & Illumination ,Marianne Boesky Gallery, NY Chelsea (509 W) ,Chelsea, New York, USA 2025 - Casting a Glance: Dancing with Smithson ,Marian Goodman Gallery, Los Angeles ,Los Angeles, California, USA - Toward the Light: Artists for the Ali Forney Center ,David Zwirner, New York (519 W 19th Street) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Echo Delay Reverb ,Palais de Tokyo ,16e, Paris, France - The Art of Collecting. Expanding the Moderna Museet Collection ,Moderna Museet, Stockholm ,Stockholm, Sweden - In Our Time: Eleven Artists + W.E.B. Du Bois ,Pratt Institute, Manhattan Gallery ,New York, USA - Making Their Mark: Works from the Shah Garg Collection ,Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum ,St. Louis, Missouri, USA - Luis Gordillo in friendly company ,Carlier / Gebauer, Madrid ,Madrid, Spain - Global Icons, Local Spotlight: Contemporary Art from the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer ,Portland Art Museum, Oregon ,Portland, Oregon, USA - To Open Eyes. Artists’ Gaze ,Centre Pompidou Malaga ,Malaga, Spain - 55 Years: Isn't That Long Enough? ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - Turned And Turning Still ,The Painting Center ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Code Switch: Distributing Blackness, Reprogramming Internet Art ,MOCAD, Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit ,Detroit, Michigan, USA - Postcards from the Heart: Selections from the Brigitte and Henning Freybe Collection ,Vancouver Art Gallery ,Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada - Spring Impressions ,Heather Gaudio Fine Art, Greenwich ,Greenwich, Connecticut, USA - Swing and Sway ,Barbara Davis Gallery ,Houston, Texas, USA - Breaking the Mold: Brooklyn Museum at 200 ,Brooklyn Museum of Art ,Brooklyn, New York, USA - MCA Collection: Artists in Focus ,Museum of Contemporary Art Australia (MCA) ,Sydney, Australia - Transcendence: A Century of Black Queer Ecstasy, 1924‑2024 ,Visual Arts Center, University of Texas ,Austin, Texas, USA 2024 - Ancestral: Afro-Américas [Estados Unidos e Brasil] ,FAAP, Museum of Brazilian Art ,Sao Paulo, Brazil - Making Their Mark: Works from the Shah Garg Collection ,BAMPFA , Berkeley Art Museum & Pacific Film Archive ,Berkeley, California, USA - Your Patience Is Appreciated ,Marian Goodman Gallery, New York ,New York, USA - An Expanded Lens ,The Anderson Collection at Stanford University ,Stanford, California, USA - The Spiral Of Painting ,Carlier / Gebauer, Madrid ,Madrid, Spain - A Product of Time: 25 Years of TWO x TWO for AIDS and Art ,The Warehouse ,Dallas, Texas, USA - The Quiet is so Noisy ,Zolla/Lieberman Gallery ,River North, Chicago, Illinois, USA - Portrait of a Collection ,SONGEUN ,Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea - A Treatise on Color: Vols. I–IV ,Fridman Gallery ,New York, USA - Future Tense: Art, Complexity, & Predictability ,Irvine Beall Center for Art and Technology, University of California, Irvine ,Irvine, California, USA - Ethiopia At The Crossroads ,Toledo Museum of Art ,Toledo, Ohio, USA - Every Sound Is a Shape of Time ,Pérez Art Museum Miami (PAMM) ,Miami, Florida, USA - Pratza ’e Domo. A Semiotic House that was Never Built ,Museo Nivola ,Orani, Italy - 191st Annual: Academy Style ,National Academy of Design ,New York, USA - Rendez-Vous Nº1 ,Marian Goodman Gallery, Paris ,3e, Paris, France - Day for Night: New American Realism ,Palazzo Barberini ,Rome, Italy - Ethiopia at the Crossroads ,Peabody Essex Museum ,Salem, Massachusetts, USA - Julie Mehretu: Ensemble ,Pinault Foundation, Palazzo Grassi ,Venice, Italy - A Selection of Post-war and Contemporary Art ,Sotheby's Palm Beach ,Palm Beach, Florida, USA - The Culture ,SCHIRN Kunsthalle Frankfurt ,Frankfurt, Germany - First Came a Friendship: Sidney B. Felsen and the Artists at Gemini G.E.L. ,Getty Center ,Los Angeles, California, USA - The MET 150th Print Portfolio ,Gemini G.E.L. at Joni Moisant Weyl ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Epílogo [Epílogue] ,MUSAC León ,Leon, Spain - Abstract Perspectives ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA 2023 - Winter Group Show ,Crown Point Press Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - Women's Work is Never Done ,Richard Saltoun, London ,London, UK - Or The Continuous Drawing: Drawings From The Teixeira De Freitas Collection ,MAC/CCB Museum of Contemporary Art ,Lisbon, Portugal - Strange Weather: from the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation ,Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art ,Eugene, Oregon, USA - Chopped & Screwed ,White Cube, New York ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - Artists, Born Elsewhere: Selections from the UMCA's Permanent Collection ,University Museum of Contemporary Art, UMass Amherst ,Amherst, Massachusetts, USA - The Culture: Hip-Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century ,Saint Louis Art Museum (SLAM) ,St. Louis, Missouri, USA - World Framed: Contemporary Drawing Art of the Schering Stiftung Collection at the Kupferstichkabinett ,Kupferstichkabinett (Collection of Drawings & Prints) ,Tiergarten, Berlin, Germany - World Framed: Contemporary Drawing Art of the Schering Stiftung Collection at the Kupferstichkabinett ,Kupferstichkabinett (Collection of Drawings & Prints) ,Tiergarten, Berlin, Germany - Before Tomorrow. Astrup Fearnley Museet 30 Years ,Astrup Fearnley Museet ,Oslo, Norway - Exotermia: Semiótica de la ubicación en la Colección MUSAC ,MUSAC León ,Leon, Spain - Serial Imagery: Portfolios & Prints in Sets ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - Hans-Ulrich Obrist Archive Chapter 1: Édouard Glissant ,Luma Westbau ,Zürich, Switzerland - To Bend the Ear of the Outer World: Conversations on contemporary abstract painting ,Gagosian, London (Grosvenor Hill) ,Mayfair, London, UK - To Bend the Ear of the Outer World: Conversations on contemporary abstract painting ,Gagosian, London (Davies Street) ,Mayfair, London, UK - Nina Simone Childhood Home Auction Exhibition ,Pace New York (510 West 25th Street) ,New York, USA - Artists for Artists Space ,Artists Space ,Lower Manhattan, New York, USA - The Citrus Project ,Galería Elba Benítez ,Madrid, Spain - The Culture: Hip Hop and Contemporary Art in the 21st Century ,Baltimore Museum of Art ,Baltimore, Maryland, USA - No Justice Without Love ,Ford Foundation Gallery ,Midtown, New York, USA - Strange Weather: From the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation ,Bellevue Arts Museum ,Bellevue, Washington, USA - After “The Wild”: Contemporary Art from The Barnett and Annalee Newman Foundation Collection ,The Jewish Museum New York ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - Nan Goldin & Works from the collection ,Louisiana Museum of Modern Art ,Humlebæk, Denmark - Under the Influence of the Ellipse ,Carlier / Gebauer, Berlin ,Berlin, Germany 2022 - Shared Visions ,Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art ,Eugene, Oregon, USA - Printmaking in the Twenty-First Century ,The Detroit Institute of Arts ,Detroit, Michigan, USA - Monochromatic Light: Afterlife ,Park Avenue Armory ,New York, USA - Urban Impressions: Experiencing The Global Contemporary Metropolis ,Moody Center for the Arts, Rice University ,Houston, Texas, USA - The Story of Art as it’s Still Being Written ,Victoria Miro, London ,Hoxton, London, UK - The Citrus Project ,Marian Goodman Gallery, Librairie ,3e, Paris, France - Dislocation: Alternative Landscapes and Wayfinding ,Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art ,Kansas City, Missouri, USA - Positive Fragmentation: From the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation ,Eskenazi Museum of Art ,Bloomington, Indiana, USA - Summer Editions ,Heather Gaudio Fine Art, New Canaan ,New Canaan, Connecticut, USA - Strange Weather ,MAH, Santa Cruz Museum of Art & History ,Santa Cruz, California, USA - Consequences: A Parlor Game ,National Arts Club ,Gramercy Park, New York, USA - Positive Fragmentation: From the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation ,National Museum of Women in the Arts (NMWA) ,Downtown, Washington D.C., District Of Columbia, USA - Positive Fragmentation: From the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation ,American University Museum ,Washington D.C., District Of Columbia, USA - Toni Morrison's Black Book ,David Zwirner, New York (533 W 19th Street) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Toni Morrison's Black Book ,David Zwirner, New York (525 W 19th Street) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Women in Print: Recent Acquisitions ,Cleveland Museum of Art ,Cleveland, Ohio, USA - The Moody Celebrates 5 Years of Transformative Encounters with the Arts ,Moody Center for the Arts, Rice University ,Houston, Texas, USA 2021 - Since Unveiling: Selected Acquisitions of a Decade ,The Broad ,Downtown Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA - ONLINE: Site Insight ,James Harris Gallery ,Dallas, Texas, USA - Parkett: A Time Capsule ,Musée des Beaux-arts, Le Locle ,Le Locle, Switzerland - The Contemporary Print: 20 Years at Highpoint Editions ,Minneapolis Institute of Art ,Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA - Ways of Seeing: Three Takes on the Jack Shear Drawing Collection ,The Drawing Center ,Soho, New York, USA - Present Tense: New Prints, 2000–2005 ,Print Center New York ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Invisible Sun ,The Broad ,Downtown Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA - Grounded: A Winter Group Show ,Crown Point Press Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA 2020 - Her Ideas, Her Stories: Women Artists from GRAM’s Collection ,GRAM, Grand Rapids Art Museum ,Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA - Imperfect Clocks ,Chart ,Tribeca, New York, USA - Connecting Currents ,Museum of Fine Arts Houston ,River Oaks, Houston, Texas, USA - Migrations of Line: Julie Mehretu and Antoinette Bouzonnet-Stella ,AGO, Art Gallery of Ontario ,Toronto, Ontario, Canada - Architecture Into Art: A Dialogue ,Centro Botín ,Santander, Spain - Never Done: 100 Years Of Women In Politics And Beyond ,Tang Museum ,Saratoga Springs, New York, USA - Relations: Diaspora and Painting ,PHI Foundation ,Montreal, Quebec, Canada - Basel By Berlin ,Carlier / Gebauer, Berlin ,Berlin, Germany - Basel En Madrid ,Carlier / Gebauer, Madrid ,Madrid, Spain - All at Once ,Fridman Gallery ,New York, USA - Researchers: Women Artists Inspired by Science ,Des Moines Art Center ,Des Moines, Iowa, USA - Collective Constellation: Selections From The Eileen Harris Norton Collection ,Art + Practice ,Los Angeles, California, USA 2019 - From Hand To Mind ,Carlier / Gebauer, Madrid ,Madrid, Spain - Yasiin Bey: Negus ,Brooklyn Museum of Art ,Brooklyn, New York, USA - Resilience: African American Artists As Agents of Change ,Kalamazoo Institute of Arts ,Kalamazoo, Michigan, USA - Black Refractions: Highlights from The Studio Museum in Harlem ,Kalamazoo Institute of Arts ,Kalamazoo, Michigan, USA - Process & Pattern ,The Anderson Collection at Stanford University ,Stanford, California, USA - Energy: The Power of Art ,Nassau County Museum of Art ,Roslyn, New York, USA - Visible Traces (Mountain Water Air) ,LGDR, New York (Madison Av.) ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - The Reconfigured Landscape ,Centro Botín ,Santander, Spain - Get Up, Stand Up Now: Generations Of Black Creative Pioneers ,Somerset House ,London, UK - Artistic License: Six Takes on the Guggenheim Collection ,Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - About Things Loved: Blackness And Belonging ,BAMPFA , Berkeley Art Museum & Pacific Film Archive ,Berkeley, California, USA - Luogo e segni ,Pinault Foundation, Punta della Dogana ,Venice, Italy - Artistic License: Six Takes on the Guggenheim Collection ,Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - The Notational Shift ,MUSAC León ,Leon, Spain 2018 - Graphic Revolution: American Prints 1960 to Now ,Saint Louis Art Museum (SLAM) ,St. Louis, Missouri, USA - The Print Show ,Richard Levy Gallery ,Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA - Lydia Cabrera and Édouard Glissant: Trembling Thinking ,Americas Society (AS) ,Upper East Side, New York, USA - Memory Palace ,White Cube, London (Mason's Yard) ,St. James's, London, UK - Remembering Tomorrow: Artworks and Archives ,White Cube, Hong Kong ,Central, Hong Kong, Hong Kong - Memory Palace ,White Cube, London (Bermondsey Street) ,London, UK - Diagrams of Power ,OCAD Onsite Gallery ,Toronto, Ontario, Canada - Summer Choices ,Crown Point Press Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - The Landscape Reconfigured ,Centro Botín ,Santander, Spain - Chaos and Awe: Painting for the 21st Century ,Frist Art Museum ,Nashville, Tennessee, USA - Tacita Dean & Julie Mehretu ,Marian Goodman Gallery, Paris ,3e, Paris, France - Actions: The image of the world can be different ,Kettle's Yard ,Cambridge, UK 2017 - Never Free to Rest ,Kurimanzutto, Mexico City ,Mexico City, Mexico - Lines of Thought: Drawing from Michelangelo to Now From the British Museum ,RISD Museum ,Providence, Rhode Island, USA - About the Line: An Exhibition Exploring the Power of the Line in 20th and 21st Century Art ,Christie's Mayfair ,London, UK - I am you, you are too ,Walker Art Center ,Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA - Their Own Harlems ,The Studio Museum in Harlem ,Harlem, New York, USA - Uptown ,Wallach Art Gallery, Columbia University ,Harlem, New York, USA - Gray Matters ,Wexner Center for the Arts ,Columbus, Ohio, USA - Power ,Sprüth Magers, Los Angeles ,Park La Brea, Los Angeles, California, USA - Sanctuary City: With Liberty and Justice for Some ,SFAC Galleries ,San Francisco, California, USA - The American Dream: Pop to the Present ,The British Museum ,Bloomsbury, London, UK - Expanding Tradition: The Journey of the African-American Artist ,Grenning Gallery ,Sag Harbor, New York, USA - With Liberty and Justice for Some ,Walter Maciel Gallery ,Palms, Los Angeles, California, USA 2016 - Shifting Views: People & Politics in Contemporary African Art ,Baltimore Museum of Art ,Baltimore, Maryland, USA - In Context: Africans in America ,Goodman Gallery, Johannesburg ,Johannesburg, South Africa - Julie Mehretu & Jessica Rankin: Struggling With Words That Count ,Carlier / Gebauer, Berlin ,Berlin, Germany - Struggling With Words That Count ,Carlier / Gebauer, Berlin ,Berlin, Germany - The Serial Impulse at Gemini G.E.L. ,LACMA, Los Angeles County Museum of Art ,Park La Brea, Los Angeles, California, USA - Lucy’s Iris. Contemporary African Women Artists ,Musée d’art contemporain de la Haute-Vienne ,Rochechouart, France - New & Recent Editions ,Gemini G.E.L. at Joni Moisant Weyl ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Julie Mehretu and Jessica Rankin: Earthfold ,Museum Dhondt-Dhaenens ,Deurle, Belgium - Scratches, Spit And Vinegar ,Crown Point Press Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - ILLUMINATION: New contemporary art at Louisiana ,Louisiana Museum of Modern Art ,Humlebæk, Denmark - Architecture of Life: Four Garden Tours ,BAMPFA , Berkeley Art Museum & Pacific Film Archive ,Berkeley, California, USA 2015 - Come as You Are: Art of the 1990s ,University of Michigan Museum of Art ,Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA - Drawing: The Bottom Line ,S.M.A.K. Ghent ,Gent, Belgium - The Serial Impulse at Gemini G.E.L. ,National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. ,Washington D.C., District Of Columbia, USA - New New York Abstract Painting In The 21st Century ,University of Hawaii, The Art Gallery + Commons Gallery ,Honolulu, Hawaii, USA - Under the Clouds: From Paranoia to the Digital Sublime ,Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art ,Porto, Portugal - Come As You Are: Art of the 1990s ,Telfair Museums, Telfair Academy ,Savannah, Georgia, USA - Drawing Now ,Albertina Museum ,Vienna, Austria - Eureka ,Pace New York (508 West 25th Street) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Metropolis: Paintings of the Contemporary Urban Landscape ,Edward Tyler Nahem Fine Art ,57th Street, New York, USA - Works from the Astrup Fearnley Collection ,Astrup Fearnley Museet ,Oslo, Norway - Fresh Prints: The Nineties to Now ,Cleveland Museum of Art ,Cleveland, Ohio, USA - Sharjah Biennial 12: The past, the present, the possible ,Sharjah Art Foundation ,Sharjah, United Arab Emirates - 40 Years / 40 Artists ,University Museum of Contemporary Art, UMass Amherst ,Amherst, Massachusetts, USA 2014 - The Forever Now: Contemporary Painting in an Atemporal World ,MoMA, The Museum of Modern Art ,Midtown, New York, USA - Artists for Artists ,Matthew Marks Gallery, New York (526 W 22nd) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Tokyo Art Meeting V: Seeking New Genealogies－Bodies / Leaps / Traces ,Museum of Contemporary Art, Tokyo ,Koto-ku, Tokyo, Japan - Variations: Conversations in and Around Abstract Painting ,LACMA, Los Angeles County Museum of Art ,Park La Brea, Los Angeles, California, USA - Another Look at Detroit (Part I and II) ,Marianne Boesky Gallery, NY Chelsea (509 W) ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Love Story: Anne and Wolfgang Titze Collection ,Lower Belvedere ,Vienna, Austria - Collection Platform ,PinchukArtCentre ,Kiev, Ukraine - The Divine Comedy ,MMK, Museum für Moderne Kunst Frankfurt ,Frankfurt, Germany 2013 - Multiplicity ,Akron Art Museum ,Akron, Ohio, USA - Collection Platform 4: Emotion and Technology ,PinchukArtCentre ,Kiev, Ukraine - FLAG’s 5th Anniversary Group Exhibition ,The FLAG Art Foundation ,Chelsea, New York, USA - Revelations ,Eli & Edythe Broad Art Museum at Michigan State University ,East Lansing, Michigan, USA - Yes, No, Maybe: Artists Working at Crown Point Press ,National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C. ,Washington D.C., District Of Columbia, USA - Summer Show 2013 ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - Serralves Collection - Conceptual Form and Material Actions ,Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art ,Porto, Portugal - Selected Works ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA - Collection Platform 4: Emotion and Technology ,PinchukArtCentre ,Kiev, Ukraine - The Gesture and the Sign ,White Cube, São Paulo ,Sao Paulo, Brazil - Brothers and Sisters ,The Studio Museum in Harlem ,Harlem, New York, USA - Mapping the Contemporary Print: Selections from the Anderson Collection ,de Young Museum, FAMSF ,San Francisco, California, USA 2012 2011 - Multiplicity ,Smithsonian American Art Museum ,Downtown, Washington D.C., District Of Columbia, USA - Absence/Presence: Contemporary Abstraction ,Art Gallery, Sonoma State University ,Rohnert Park, California, USA - Recent Acquisitions from The Grunwald Center for the Graphic Arts ,Hammer Museum ,Westwood, Los Angeles, California, USA - Highpoint Editions--Decade One ,Minneapolis Institute of Art ,Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA - In Praise of Doubt ,Pinault Foundation, Punta della Dogana ,Venice, Italy - New Order ,White Cube, London (Mason's Yard) ,St. James's, London, UK - Collection Platform 1: Circulation ,PinchukArtCentre ,Kiev, Ukraine - Special Editions: Recent Acquisitions of Contemporary Prints ,High Museum of Art ,Atlanta, Georgia, USA - Three Artists ,Berggruen Gallery ,San Francisco, California, USA 2010 - Painting and Sculpture ,Lehmann Maupin, New York (Chrystie Str) ,Lower East Side, New York, USA - Picasso to Julie Mehretu: Modern Drawings from the British Museum Collection ,The British Museum ,Bloomsbury, London, UK - Keeping it Real: Act 2: Subversive Abstraction ,Whitechapel Art Gallery ,London, UK - New Works: Prints, Drawings, Collages ,Museum of Fine Arts, Boston ,Back Bay, Boston, Massachusetts, USA - Kupferstichkabinett: Between Thought and Action ,White Cube, London (Hoxton Square) ,London, UK - The Primacy of Paper: Recent Works from the Collection ,RISD Museum ,Providence, Rhode Island, USA 2009 - Automatic Cities: The Architectural Imaginary in Contemporary Art ,MCASD, Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego, La Jolla ,La Jolla, California, USA - The Passionate Pursuit: Gifts and Promised Works from Donna and Cargill MacMillan, Jr. ,Palm Springs Art Museum ,Palm Springs, California, USA - Signs of the Apocalypse/Rapture ,Hyde Park Art Center ,Hyde Park, Chicago, Illinois, USA - Between Art and Life ,SFMOMA, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art ,San Francisco, California, USA


--- [Twenty Three Love Stories | Out.com] ---
Twenty-Three Love Stories: Jessica Rankin & Julie Mehretu JESSICA RANKIN, ARTIST: We met in 2000, in a bar -the old-fashioned way! We met and had a wonderful summer together, and we were both insistent it wasn't serious, that we didn't want to rush into things, but it was really evident to those around us that what we had was something special. I realized pretty quickly that it was for the rest of my life. I think Julie was a little slower to get there! It was after six months that we started to take it seriously -- something forever. When you leave New York, you see that everyone is two steps ahead of you. I'm from Australia, and when we went there, after a couple of years, everyone I knew had one kid with a second on the way, and I said to Julie: 'What's going on? We need to get cracking on this!' We'd been together three years when we started to talk seriously about it, and we talked about whether we wanted to adopt, or give birth, and if so, who should, and all of that. We thought hard for six months and came very close to asking someone we knew [to be a donor]. We even wrote the letter, and at the last moment we put that letter away for a month. When we took it out, I read it and my heart sank. I thought, It's hard enough to find the person you want to spend the rest of your life with. I don't know if I'm ready to factor in a third party. So we decided to do the anonymous donor. Cade and Haile are five and a half years apart'Haile was born this year. If we have more, I won't do the childbirth thing. Being a family of four is different from being three, and three is different from two. It's infinitely more complicated and infinitely more wonderful. JULIE MEHRETU, ARTIST: After the first year we were together, I knew Jessica was the person I wanted to be with. A few years into the relationship, we were traveling and came back, and Jessica was at a place where she wanted children, and I said, 'Yes, what else would we do at this stage? It's time!' The minute you have a child you're a unit, and within the first year we started living together, it felt like a family. Now we're four, and we're really a unit, but I can see having more. I'm happy with the two boys we have, but it's always nice to have more. We still manage to travel.It's more difficult with the baby and a 5-year-old, but we're always trying to stay settled and always traveling. This is only the second year Cade has lived in the same place since he was born, and this is the longest period of continuity for him.
