=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Janice Burgess - Wikipedia]
Janice Burgess (March 1, 1952 – March 2, 2024) [1] was an American television executive, screenwriter and producer for Nickelodeon. [2] She created the Nick Jr. series The Backyardigans and worked as a writer and story editor for Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janice_Burgess

[Wolfram|Alpha (Janice Burgess | educated at)]
Result: (data not available)
URL: https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=What+was+Janice+Burgess%27s+alma+mater%3F

[The Lives They Lived: Rest In Play Edition]
Janice graduated from Brandeis University in 1974 with a degree in art history. In the early 1990s, Janice worked for the Children's Television Workshop.
URL: https://peopleofplay.com/blog/the-lives-they-lived-rest-in-play-edition

[Janice Burgess - Nickelodeon]
Janice Burgess (1952-2024) was a former TV executive and producer who worked at Nickelodeon from 1995 to 2014. She created The Backyardigans and later became a story editor and writer for Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club.
URL: https://nickelodeon.fandom.com/wiki/Janice_Burgess

[Notable Alumni | About]
Arts and Entertainment ; Janice Burgess '74, creator and executive producer, “The Backyardigans” ; David Crane '79 and Marta Kauffman '78, co-creators, “Friends”.
URL: https://www.brandeis.edu/about/alumni.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Janice Burgess - Wikipedia] ---
Janice Burgess (March 1, 1952 – March 2, 2024) was an American television executive, screenwriter and producer for Nickelodeon. She created the Nick Jr. series The Backyardigans and worked as a writer and story editor for Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club. Both shows were produced at the Nickelodeon Animation Studio. Burgess joined Nickelodeon in 1995 as executive-in-charge of production.




--- [Wolfram|Alpha (Janice Burgess | educated at)] ---
No content


--- [The Lives They Lived: Rest In Play Edition] ---
Remembering some of the inventors, creators, leaders, and innovators who passed this year. Akira Toriyama - Creator of Dragon Ball Akira Toriyama was born on April 5, 1955 and passed away on March 1, 2024. He was a Japanese manga artist and character designer, best known as the creator of the Dragon Ball, Sand Lord, and Dr. Slump manga and the character design for Dragon Quest. Akira is regarded as one of the most important authors in the history of manga. Akira's first published work was Wonder Island, and it appeared in Weekly Shōnen Jump in 1978. His first real success, though, came in 1980, when he created Dr. Slump, which made him a household name. In 1983, Akira created Dragon Boy, which evolved into Dragon Ball, which is now one of the best selling manga series of all time. It led to film adaptations, video games, and merchandise. Its popularity spread all over the globe. In 1981, Akira won the Shogakukan Manga Award for best shōnen manga with Dr. Slump, which was adapted into a successful anime series. His series, Dragon Ball, is one of the most popular and successful manga in the world, and having sold 260 million copies world wide, it is also one of the best-selling manga series of all time. Shigeichi Negishi - Inventor of the First Karaoke Machine Shigeichi Negishi was born on November 29, 1923 and passed away on January 26, 2024. He was a Japanese engineer and entrepreneur who invented the first karaoke machine. Shigeichi was born in Tokoyo and studied economics at Hosei University. He was drafted into the Japanese Army during World War 2, and after their defeat, was held as a prisoner of war in Singapore for 2 years. After his release, Shigeichi sold Olympus cameras and later founded the consumer electronics company Nichiden Kogyo in 1956. The story of the karaoke machine is an interesting one. Shigeichi was singing to himself at work in 1967 when an employee teased him for his bad voice. Convinced he would sound better with a backing track, he and his staff wired together a speaker, microphone, and a tape deck. To market the product, he partnered with the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation and travelled throughout Japan giving demonstrations. The machine was dubbed the Sparko Box. However, he never patented Sparko Box, and other inventors such as Daisuke Inoue have created similar products and have received credit for inventing the karaoke machine. Rich Rooney - PlayMonster Chief Operations & Logistics Officer Richard "Rich" Rooney was born on may 14, 1970, and passed away on March 27, 2024. He was 53 years old. Rich went to college at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside in 1994. Having always harbored a passion for toys, he pursued that industry after graduating, and ended up in Supply Chain Management & operations for several international toy companies, including Hasbro, Zizzle, Ridemakerz, and most recently, at PlayMonster, where he was the Chief Operations & Logistics Officer. Rich married Erika Salmen in 1999, and together they had two children, Connell and Colleen, all of whom already miss Rich dearly . Rich was an avid fan of the Minnesota Vikings, the Twins, and the LSU Tigers. He loved traveling, watching his kids play sports, and truly lived with an unmatched passion and enthusiasm for life. Trina Robbins - Writer, Artist, Historian, & Advocate for Comics for Women & Girls Trina Robbins was born on August 17, 1938 and passed away on April 10, 2024. She was an American cartoonist, an early participant in the underground comix movement, and one of the first women in the movement at that. Trina was born in Brooklyn and had an early fascination with comic book heroines. She attended Cooper Union for a year, where she studied drawing before moving to California in 1960. In 1996, she moved to Manhattan, where she worked as a stylist and ran a clothing boutique called Broccoli. She designed clothes for Mama Cass, Donovan, and David Crosby, among others, all while making herself at home in the 1960a rock scene. She was actually close friends with Jim Morrison and members of The Byrds, and was the first of the three "Ladies of the Canyon" in Joni Mitchell's classic song. Trina's first comics were printed in 1966, but left New York for San Francisco and worked at the feminist underground newspaper It Ain't Me, Babe. She also produced the first all-woman comic book, the one-shot It Ain't Me, Babe Comix with fellow female artist Barbara "Willy" Mendes. Trina was very vocal in speaking out against the misogyny and "boy's club" of comics creators criticizing underground comix artist Robert Crumb for the perceived misogyny of many of his comics, famously saying, "It's weird to me how willing people are to overlook the hideous darkness in Crumb's work ... What the hell is funny about rape and murder?" In 1990, Trina edited and contributed to Choices: A Pro-Choice Benefit Comic Anthology for the National Organization for Women, published under her own imprint, Angry Isis Press. In 2000 Robbins introduced GoGirl! — superhero stories designed to appeal to young girls. In 1986, Trina got involved with Wonder Woman. She drew the comics for The Legend of Wonder Woman, which was a four-part series written by Kurt Busiek. In the mid-1990s, Trina criticized artist Mike Deodato's "bad girl art" portrayal of Wonder Woman, calling Deodato's version of the character a "barely clothed hypersexual pinup." In addition to her comics work, Trina was an author of nonfiction books on the history of women in cartooning. She wrote Women and the Comics, A Century of Women Cartoonists, The Great Women Superheroes, From Girls to Grrrlz: A History of Women's Comics from Teens to Zines, and The Great Women Cartoonists. In 1997, Trina was a Special Guest at Comic-Con in San Diego, where she was presented with an Inkpot Award. In 1989, she won a Special Achievement Award at Comic-Con for her work on Strip AIDS USA. She was a three-time winner of the Lulu of the Year, was inducted into the Friends of Lulu Women Cartoonists Hall of Fame in 2001, and in 2002, she was given the Special John Buscema Haxtur Award. In 2013, she was inducted into theWill Eisner Hall of Fame, and in 2015, she was ranked #25 among the best female comics creators of all time. ComicsAlliance named Trina as one of twelve women cartoonists deserving of lifetime achievement recognition in 2016, and in 2017, she was chosen for the Wizard World Hall of Legends. All in all, Trina Robbins was an extremely talented artist and feminist icon, and will not only be deeply and dearly missed by those who knew and loved her, but by the world of comics as well. Walter Frederick Morrison - Inventor of the Frisbee Walter Frederick Morrison was born on January 23, 1920 and passed away on February 9, 2010. He is most famous for inventing the Frisbee. Walter came up with the idea for Frisbee while innocently throwing a popcorn can lid back and forth with his girlfriend, Lucille, whom he ended up marrying and having three children with. After denting the popcorn can lid, he realized that cake pans flew better. A year later, while tossing the cake pan back and forth on a beach in Santa Monica, they were offered 25 cents (which is now equivalent to $5) for the cake pan. And thus, the inventor became the entrepreneur. Together, Walter and Lucille started selling Flyin' Cake Pans on the beaches of California. It wasn't until 1946 that Walter sketched a design for the flying disc. In 1948, Warren Franscioni paid for molding the design in plastic, and together they named it the Flyin-Saucer. Unfortunately, sales weren't great, and they parted ways. In 1955, Walter and Lucille designed the Pluto Platter, and in 1957, they sold the right to Wham-O. They changed the name to Frisbee, and the rest is history. Walter invented many other toys and games for Wham-O, but none were as successful as the frisbee, which is still popular today, and can be found in most garages. Walter and Lucille had a son and two daughters before divorcing, getting back together, and then divorcing again. Lucille died in 1987, and Walter lived out his days in his home in Monroe, Utah. Chris Wiggs - Inventor of Polly Pocket Chris Wiggs, inventor of Polly Pocket, was born in 1950 and passed away on June 20th, 2024. He was 74. Chris came up with the idea for Polly Pocket in 1983 while visiting New York. When he returned home to France, he went straight to his workshop and brought the concept to life for his daughter, Kate, using an old makeup powder compact. Kate recalls that her father making her things like this was a regular occurrence—"the most natural thing in the world," she called it. Polly Pocket wasn't anything more than Kate's plaything until 1989, when Chris rediscovered his creation and thought that he might be able to make something big. Soon, Bluebird Toys licensed the toys, and in the late 1990s, Mattel acquired both Bluebird Toys and Polly Pocket, and in its new home at Mattel, Polly Pocket became incredibly successful. Outside of inventing, Chris loved music and spending time with his family: his wife, Carolyn, his daughter, Kate, his son, Ben, and five grandchildren. Susan Wokcick - Former CEO of YouTube Susan Wojcicki was born on July 5, 1968 and passed away on August 9, 2024 after a two year battle with lung cancer. She was the CEO of YouTube from 2014 - 2023 and was one of the first Google employees. Susan became Google employee #16 in September 1998 when she rented out her garage to Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin. She joined the team working on the initial marketing programs, helped create the logo, and co-developed and launched Google Image Search. She was eventually promoted to Google's senior vice president of Advertising & Commerce. In February 2014, Susan became the CEO of YouTube, and was named "the most important person in advertising" and one of Time's 100 most influential people in 2015. While CEO, the company developed 10 forms of monetization for YouTube creators, including channel memberships, merchandise, BrandConnect, and paid digital goods like Super Chat. She also launched YouTube Premium and YouTube TV. Susan tightened YouTube's policy on videos it regards as potentially violating its policies on hate speech and violent extremism, and emphasized educational content as a priority. On February 16, 2023, Wojcicki announced her resignation from YouTube via a company blog post, citing her desire to focus on family, health, and personal projects. Susan was married to Dennis Troper, director of product management at Google, and together they had 5 children. Leonard Riggio - Founder of Barnes & Noble and GameStop Leonardo Riggio was born on February 28, 1941 and passed away on August 27, 2024. He was the founder of what we know as Barnes & Noble as well as GameStop. Leonardo attended New York University, and while he was a student, he opened the Student Book Exchange in 1965. He then acquired the Barnes & Noble bookstore in NYC in 1971, adopted the name, and expanded on his network of bookstores by acquiring hundreds of them throughout his career. He is responsible for the B&N Superstore concept—adding cafes and comfy reading nooks to the stores. When Amazon became popular, Leonardo launched BarnesAndNoble.com to compete, and ended up opening a successful video game retail operation, which grew to become GameStop. Outside of his executive career, he also bred and raced horses for Thoroughbred racing. He also was the benefactor of many organizations and charities, including his alma mater and Dia:Beacon art museum in Beacon, New York. He also had his own private collection of art specializing in Minimalist art. He established Project Home Again to assist victims of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. Peter Renaday - Voice Actor Behind Master Splinter in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Peter Renaday was born on June 9, 1935 and passed away on September 8, 2024. Peter was an American character and voice artist for over 6 decades, appearing in 2000 film and TV roles. Peter was born in Louisiana, born as Pierre Laurent Renoudet. He made his acting debut in 1965 with the television series Combat!, but his career truly took off in the 1980s, when he was cast in the first animated TV adaptation of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles as Splinter, the sensei and martial arts trainer that made the turtles into the warriors they are. He held this role until the show's finale in 1996. Other films he was in are The Aristocats, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Mulan, Scooby-Doo! and the Witch's Ghost, Shrek, Madagascar, The Transformers, Aladdin, and many, many more. Peter was married to Florence "Flo" June Daniel from 1979 until her death in 2011. She worked as a secretary in the music department at Walt Disney Studios. Kosin Virapornsawan - Managing Director of PlanToys Kosin Virapornsawan was born in 1982 and passed away on September 12, 2024. Kosin was the managing director of PlanToys, a sustainable toy company. He'd spent over a decade in the toy industry, leading sustainability efforts, environmental stewardship, and ethical business practices at PlanToys at the company headquarters in Thailand. Loren Hildebrand - Executive Vice President of Mattel Loren Hildebrand was born in 1939 and passed away on October 8, 2024. Loren attended Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma and earned a degree in Economics before getting his MBA from the University of Washington. After graduating, he joined Mattel, where he spent two and a half decades of his career. Rising through the ranks to eventually become Executive Vice President of Mattel Toys, Loren loved going to work every day. After 24 years, he joined Bandai to launch Toy Soldiers, afterwards joining Galoob, where he assisted in the launch of the Star Wars brand. Loren was also on a variety of boards and committees. He enjoyed watching sports, playing golf and tennis, hosting dinner parties, and spending time with his family. He will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved him. Marty Krofft - The ‘King of Saturday Mornings’, Co-Producer of Sid & Marty Krofft Pictures Marty Kroft, co-producer of children's TV shows "H.R. Pufnstuf" and "Land of the Lost," was born on April 9, 1937 and passed away on November 25, 2023. Marty died of kidney failure at the age of 86. Marty, along with his brother, Sid, were often known as the Krofft Brothers, and through their production company, Sid & Marty Krofft, they made a number of successful children's television shows in the 1970s. Namely, H.R. Pufnstuf, Land of the Lost, Sigmund and the Sea Monsters, Lidsville, and Electra Woman and Dyna Girl, to name a few. Bryan Ansell – The ‘Grandfather of Warhammer’ Bryan Ansell was born on October 11, 1955 and passed away on December 30, 2023. He was a British role-playing and wargame designer, known for his time as managing director of Games Workshop. Bryan got his start in the toy industry as a miniature sculptor for Conquest Miniatures. In 1976, he and two friends founded Asgard Miniatures, but two years later, Bryan left Asgard and partnered with Games Workshop to found the company Citadel Miniatures, which would go on to produce and manufacture 25mm historical and fantasy minatures for games published by Games Workshop. Bryan himself designed Warhammer and Fantasy Battle. In 1985, after Citadel Minatures became the most profitable line of the company, Bryan became managing director of Games Workshop. Bryan passed away at the age of 68, leaving behind his wife, Dianne, and will be dearly missed by friends, family, and colleagues alike. Jack Leo Williams – Partner at FMW Karen Tenebaum – Founder & Owner of Tenenbaum Law Karen Tenenbaum, founder and owner of Tenenbaum Law, P.C., passed away on December 23, 2023 after a sudden cardiac event. She was 64 years old. Karen was not only a very successful tax attorney for more than 25 years, she also founded Money Masters, Inc., an organization that provides financial literacy information and tools for both children and parents using an animated character, Walter the Vault. Walter helped teach kids how to be responsible when it comes to money. Karen was an active member of the New York Metro Chapter of Women in Toys, Licensing & Entertainment. She regularly attended WiT events to connect with other inventors and entrepreneurs. Karen graduated from Brooklyn College in 1980 and then attended Brooklyn Law School as well as NYU Law school She founded her own firm in 1996 after working as an accountant for several years. Her company, Tenenbaum Law, P.C. was named among the New York Law Journal’s Largest Women-Owned Law Firms in New York State and as a top tax firm by both the New York Law Journal and Long Island Business News. Karen leaves behind her husband, Larry, daughters, Allison and Stacie, and grandchildren Asher, Jordan, Remi, and Arley. She will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved her. Lutz Muller – President of Klosters Trading Corporation Lutz Muller, a Swiss business man, passed away on January 14, 2024. Lutz wore a number of hats throughout his life: He was the Senior Director at Schering Plough, a leading pharmaceutical/consumer products multinational where he was in charge of international marketing at Headquarters. He was the CEO of DKSH, a Swiss-owned mini-conglomerate that got crafts for children into Wal-Mart's toy aisle, revolutionizing the Activity Kit category. He was the President and founder of Klosters Trading Corporation. He wanted to provide competitive intelligence to large financial entities interested in the CPG space and to assist companies in need of help in the areas of new product development, sales, and marketing. He was the CEO of Pastime Industries Inc. Pastime was a turn-around, a company that had been delisted by Wal-Mart, Target, ToysRUs and many others. Lutz' team invented the "Children make their own Candies" and then "Children make their own Beauty Aids" activity kit concepts and placed these in Wal-Mart, Target, ToysRUs, Costco and many others. He was the Court-appointed Chief Financial Agent for a toy manufacturer. He had a monthly column at TOYS, Germany's leading industry publication, and issued two industry newsletters per month, the Klosters Toy Manufacturer Newsletter and the Klosters Toy Supply Chain Newsletter. Janice Burgess – Nick Jr. Executive Janice Burgess was born on March 1, 1952 and passed away on March 2, 2024. She was an American TV executive and producer for Nickelodeon most famous for creating the Nick Jr. series The Backyardigans. Janice grew up in Pittsburgh and spent a great deal of time playing in her backyard, memories of which she used for inspiration for The Backyardigans. Janice graduated from Brandeis University in 1974 with a degree in art history. In the early 1990s, Janice worked for the Children's Television Workshop. This is where she heard about a job at Nickelodeon, and was soon hired as the executive in charge of production for Nick Jr. After working in this position for a while, Janice took on a more creative role, and in 2001, the idea for The Backyardigans was born. Funnily enough, it started out as a full-body puppet show in 1998, but was reimagined with animation in 2001 and set to premiere in October 2004 with a 20-episode season. The Backyardigans was a hit, and Janice served as the executive producer throughout its four season run. The series received 8 Daytime Emmy Award nominations and Janice herself won the 2008 Emmy for Outstanding Special Class Animated Program. After the fourth and final season came and went, Janice and a number of other people who worked on Backyardigans began working on Nickelodeon's Winx Club. Janice worked as a writer, story editor, and creative consultant. James M. “Jim” Ward – Game Designer, Member of Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts & Design Hall of Fame James "Jim" Ward was born on May 23, 1951 and passed away on March 18, 2024 at the age of 72. He was an American game designer and fantasy author most known for his work on Dungeons & Dragons. Jim worked for TSR, and was one of the players in Gary Gygax's early Greyhawk games as Gygax developed the Dungeons & Dragons and game—in fact, the character Drawjim is named after him (spell Jim Ward backwards!). Jim and Rob Kuntz worked together to make Gods, Demi-Gods, & Heroes , introducing gods into the original D&D game. Ward also designed Metamorphosis Alpha, the first science-fantasy role-playing game, and co-authored Deities & Demigods. Ward also wrote Greyhawk Adventures, and along with David Cook, Steve Winter, and Mike Breault, co-wrote Ruins of Adventure, which was adapted into the game Pool of Radiance. In 1989, he was inducted into the Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts & Design Hall of Fame. Jim also designed the Spellfire collectible card game and the Dragon Ball Z Collectible Card Game. He was the co-founder of the d2- company Fast Forward Entertainment, and was the President from 2000-2005. Richard Keats – Founder of Kaywood Industries, President of Buddy L Toys Richard Keats was born on April 1, 1927 and passed away at the age of 97 on April 7, 2024. Richard Keats graduated from Brown University and served in the US Navy. Afterwards, he joined his father's company, Buddy L Toys, in 1948. He worked there until 1990, when it was sold to SLM, and even took over running the company in 1976, when his father retired. After leaving Buddy L Toys, he founded Kaywood Industries, continuing his passion for design and invention. Kaywood also licensed a number of products to companies like Fisher Price, Mattel, Hasbro, and Spin Master. Some of his company's most successful products include Brush Your Teeth Barney, Playtime Big Bird, Flatsy, MakeUp Mindy, and many more. Richard Keats was a dedicated attendee of Toy Fair and the Dallas Fall Toy Preview trade shows. He will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved him. Rob Auerbach – Founder of CandyRific Rob Auerbach owner and CEO of CandyRific, was born on March 28, 1952 and passed away on May 7, 2024. Rob was an industry icon, a toy and novelty candy creator for over 40 years. He first founded Rainbow Blossom Natural Food Markets in 1977, before founding CandyRific in 2000. Rob ensured that his candy not only tasted delicious, but was free of synthetic preservatives, artificial colors and flavors. Outside of his career, Rob was an avid pilot, loved horse-racing (he attended the 150th Kentucky Derby on May 4th, just before his death), as well as cycling, beekeeping, live music, and traveling. He will be deeply missed by all that knew and loved him. Eugene “Gene” Hendel – Founder of Gene Hendel Associates Eugene "Gene" Hendel was born on August 17, 1943 and passed away on June 30, 2024. Gene spent 5 decades in the toy industry, at first working for companies like Kenner, Mattel, Hasbro, and Tiger Electronics before launching his own company, Gene Hendel Associates. Gene loved his family and his pets deeply. He was an active member of his community, West Chester. He will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved him. Rob Romash – Founder of Eclipse Toys Rob Romash was born on January 16, 1969 and passed away on June 9, 2024. Rob was a creative since childhood, crafting intricate models beginning at age 4. He went to college to study fine arts, specializing in Raku ceramics. Rob was on the development team for the creation of the very first SuperSoaker, which was just the beginning of his career in the toy industry. He hand-sculpted over 100 Matchbox master patterns for Mattel Toys, and was the owner of Eclipse Toys. Outside of work, Rob enjoyed indoor free flight competitions, and won numerous world championship aero modeling titles. He was a loving husband to Nida, and a cat-dad to Sundae. He will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved him. Beth Schlansky – Vice President of Licensing Spencer Gifts, LIMA Board of Directors Beth Schlansky was born on September 29, 1953 and passed away on July 29, 2024. Beth graduated from Queens College in 1976, and her first job after graduation was at Macy's Executive Training Program. In 1979, she became a merchandiser in the corporate office of British American Tobacco US. There, she worked with an array of national accounts including Saks Fifth Avenue, Marshall Field's, Gimbels, and Kohl's. In 1986, Beth joined Spencer Gifts as Vice President of Licensing. She also played a role in the growth of Licensing International from its beginning in 1985. She was elected twice to the Board of Directors, served several years as a LIMA Retail Officer and LIMA’s first Charity Chairperson where she had the honor to have inaugurated the Licensing Industry’s Charity focus, The Hole in The Wall Gang Camp in Ashford, Ct. started by Paul Newman. In 2006, Beth started her own company, Beth Schlansky, Inc., where she was a licensing agent offering support and consulting services for licensors, manufacturers, and retailers. Beth leaves behind a loving husband, George Velasco, and will be deeply and dearly missed by all those that knew and loved her. ULTRA PRO ENTERTAINMENT SECURES CANADIAN DISTRIBUTION RIGHTS FOR ZANZOON ELECTRONIC GAMES, EXPANDS LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIP TO CANADA Toy Review: Wyldshyres Game Review: Priorities Bob Moog’s Tribute to Cris Lehman, Co-founder and CFO of University Games Dr. Amanda Gummer on Children’s Digital Wellbeing Framework (CDWF): A practical route to better-designed digital experiences for children Game Review: Priorities Bob Moog’s Tribute to Cris Lehman, Co-founder and CFO of University Games Dr. Amanda Gummer on Children’s Digital Wellbeing Framework (CDWF): A practical route to better-designed digital experiences for children Toy Review: Wyldshyres Game Review: Lacorsa Randy Klimpert Shares his Ukulele Collection Steve Casino Peanut Art Everyone's Talking about POP! Princess Etch - a Multi-Talented Etch A Sketch Artist Joseph Herscher of Joseph' s Machines. Connie Vogelmann designed Apiary & Wyrmspan! Bob Fuhrer... Is THE Crocodile Dentist! Tom Dusenberry... Bought Atari, Wizards of the Coast, and Avalon Hill! Matt Leacock created Pandemic... the game! Scott Brown and Tim Swindle... are Launching a New Sport! POPDuo: Richard Dickson, Mattel’s President & COO, and Kedar Narayan, Young Inventor Challenge AMB POPDuo: Will Shortz and Josh Wardle POP Duo: Elan Lee, Co-Founder, Exploding Kittens.and Jeff Probst, Host and Exec Producer, Survivor POP Duo: David Fuhrer, MNG Director, Blue Sq Innovations & Shawn Green, past Dodgers & Mets MLB Star POP Duo: Bob Fuhrer, Founder, Nextoy and Tom Fazio, Golf Course Designer


--- [Janice Burgess - Nickelodeon] ---
Janice Burgess (March 1, 1952-March 2, 2024) was a former TV executive and producer who worked at Nickelodeon from 1995 to 2014. She created The Backyardigans and later became a story editor and writer for Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club. Burgess joined Nickelodeon as an executive-in-charge of production, overseeing shows like Gullah Gullah Island,Blue's Clues ,& Bubble Guppies. She later pitched her own show, a live-action pilot called "Me and My Friends," which was based on her own childhood that she spent playing in her backyard. The idea went through some changes before Nickelodeon picked it up, eventually getting turned into an animated show called The Backyardigans. On Backyardigans, each episode is an animated mini-musical of its own, with its own original songs and choreography. In an interview, Burgess explained: "As for why it is a musical - why not?" Across its four-season run, she wrote many of the episodes, like "Whodunit" and the two-part special "Robot Rampage". After Backyardigans ended production, Burgess moved onto Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club. She was a story editor for the half-hour specials as well as a writer and creative director for the regular episodes. A lot of her Backyardigans co-workers also joined as writers for the show. Burgess Passed Away on March 2, 2024, while in hospice care in Manhattan after being diagnosed with breast cancer.[1] May She Rest In Peace. Trivia[] - Janice Burgess is the second Nicktoon creator to pass away, after SpongeBob SquarePants creator Stephen Hillenburg. Credits[] References[] - ↑ NickALive!: Janice Burgess, Longtime Nickelodeon Producer and Creator of 'The Backyardigans' Passes Away, Aged 72


--- [Notable Alumni | About] ---
Brandeis offers rigorous programs through four schools, combining the strengths of a liberal arts education with professional preparation at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. Choosing a college (education) is a really big decision. There's so much to think about: size, location, campus community, professors, career services, majors, clubs. The good news is that the most important qualities of a Brandeis education never change: academic rigor, a welcoming, diverse community, innovation in teaching and learning. Brandeis research drives discovery and inspires progress. Across disciplines, our faculty and students ask bold questions, push boundaries and pursue knowledge that makes a difference in the world. Free pizza at midnight during finals. Clubs that range from a cappella groups to skydiving. If you can’t find your passion here, you can create it — and find other Brandeisians who want to join you. Art makes things happen. It bridges cultures and forges understanding. It sparks conversation and inspires creativity. Since our founding, the arts have always played an important role in our commitment to global citizenship and social change. There is no other place like Brandeis. As a medium-sized private research university with global reach, we are dedicated to first-rate undergraduate education while making groundbreaking discoveries. Our 235-acre campus is located in the suburbs of Boston, a global hub for higher education and innovation. Deborah Bial ’87, education strategist; founder and president, Posse Foundation (MacArthur Fellow) Josh Block ’95, CEO and president, The Israel Project Alisa Gravitz ’77, president and CEO, Green America Devika Mahadevan ’00, head, strategy and communication, Mann Deshi Foundation; director, Mumbai Mobile Creches Rakesh Rajani ’89, director of democratic participation and governance, Ford Foundation Julieanna Richardson ’76, H’16, founder, The HistoryMakers Jay Ruderman ’88, president, Ruderman Family Foundation Bobby Sager ’76, philanthropist Sam Vaghar ’08, executive director and co-founder, Millennium Campus Network Janice Burgess ’74, creator and executive producer, “The Backyardigans” David Crane ’79 and Marta Kauffman ’78, co-creators, “Friends” Tony Goldwyn ’82, film and TV actor and director (“Scandal,” “Ghost”) Josh Gondelman ’07, comedian and writer, “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” Debra Granik ’85, film director and screenwriter (“Winter’s Bone,” “Down to the Bone”) Bonita Hamilton, MFA’04, actress (“Lion King”) Michael Kaiser ’75, founder and co-chair, IMG Artists; president emeritus, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts Myq Kaplan ’00, comedian Jonathan Landau ’68, music producer and manager for Bruce Springsteen Gary Lassin ’77, founder, Stoogeum (Three Stooges museum) Debra Messing ’90, Emmy Award-winning actor (“Will & Grace,” “Mysteries of Laura,” “Smash”) Anand Patwardhan ’72, documentary filmmaker Theresa Rebeck, MA’83, MFA’86, PhD’89, Broadway playwright Rosemary Rodriguez ’83, TV director (“Law & Order,” “The Good Wife”) Kimerly Rorschach ’78, director and CEO, Seattle Art Museum Michael Sugar ’95, movie producer (“Spotlight,” “Collateral Beauty,” “The Fifth Estate”) Gary Tinterow ’76, director, The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston Adam Weinberg ’77, Alice Pratt Brown Director, Whitney Museum of American Art, New York Mitch Albom ’79, “Tuesdays With Morrie,” “The Five People You Meet in Heaven” Stacey Ballis ’92, “Inappropriate Men,” “Sleeping Over,” “Room for Improvement” Edward Dolnick ’74, “The Clockwork Universe,” “The Forger's Spell,” “The Rescue Artist” Ha Jin, MA’89, PhD’93, “Waiting,” “War Trash,” “Nanjing Requiem” Jesse Kellerman, MFA’03, “Sunstroke,” “The Genius,” “Trouble,” “The Executor” Stephen J. Cloobeck ’83, current gubernatorial candidate for California; founder and former chairman and CEO of Diamond Resorts International; former chairman of the board of Brand USA; prior Chairman of the Nevada State Athletic Commission Jonathan Davis ’75, CEO and founder, The Davis Companies Amy Kessler ’89, MA’90, senior vice president and head of longevity risk transfer, Prudential Brian Lash ’78, founder, Target Logistics Olaf Olafsson ’85, executive vice president of international and corporate strategy, Time Warner Simon Sinek ’95, business consultant and author (“Start With Why: How Great Leaders Inspire Everyone to Take Action”) Sam Sisakhti, MA’07, founder and CEO, UsTrendy Perry Traquina ’78, former CEO, Wellington Management investment firm Tom Watanabe ’73, former president/CEO, Nikken Global Lan Xue ’90, MA’91, founder, Hong Kong-based hedge fund Arthur Caplan ’71, Drs. William F. and Virginia Connolly Mitty Professor and founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics, NYU School of Medicine Angela Davis ’65, distinguished professor emerita in the history of consciousness and feminist studies departments, University of California, Santa Cruz; political and social activist Deborah Lipstadt, MA’72, PhD’76, Dorot Professor of Modern Jewish History and Holocaust Studies, Emory University (profiled in movie “Denial”) Michael Sandel ’75, Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Professor of Government Theory, Harvard University Jonathan Sarna ’75, MA’75, University Professor and Joseph H. and Belle R. Braun Professor of American Jewish History, Brandeis University Judith Shapiro ’63, former president, Barnard College Fernando Torres-Gil, Heller MSW’72, Heller PhD’76, professor and director of Center for Policy Research on Aging, University of California, Los Angeles Julian Zelizer ’91, professor of history and public affairs, Princeton University; political commentator Geir Haarde ’73, Iceland’s U.S. ambassador; former prime minister Michael Horowitz ’84, inspector general, U.S. Department of Justice Lisa Kubiske ’75, deputy assistant secretary for international finance and development, U.S. Department of State Haile Menkerios ’70, former head of United Nations Office to the African Union and special representative to the African Union Dimitrij Rupel, PhD’76, former minister of foreign affairs, Slovenia Daniel Shapiro ’91, former U.S. ambassador to Israel Thomas Friedman ’75, foreign affairs columnist, The New York Times (three-time Pulitzer Prize winner), and author (“The World Is Flat,” “Flat, Hot and Crowded”) Walt Mossberg ’69, co-founder and editor-at-large, Recode (Loeb award winner) Guy Raz ’96, host and editorial director of “TED Radio Hour,” “How I Built This” and “Wow in the World,” National Public Radio Greg Zuckerman ’88, special writer, Wall Street Journal, and author (“The Frackers,” “The Greatest Trade Ever”) Paul Anastas, MA’87, PhD’89, Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment; professor of epidemiology; and director, Center for Green Chemistry and Green Engineering, Yale University Debbie Berebichez ’96, physicist, STEM advocate Bonnie Berger ’83, Simons Professor of Mathematics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; first woman in MIT math department to earn tenure Adam Cheyer ’88, co-founder, Siri voice-activated personal assistant Susan Band Horowitz, PhD’63, co-inventor of cancer-fighting drug Taxol Leslie Lamport, MA’71, PhD’72, principal researcher, Microsoft, and developer of LaTeX (Turing Award winner) Roderick MacKinnon ’78, John D. Rockefeller Jr. Professor, The Rockefeller University (Nobel laureate) Eve Marder ’69, Victor and Gwendolyn Beinfield Professor of Neuroscience, Brandeis; member of advisory board for President Barack Obama’s BRAIN (Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies) initiative Edward Witten ’71, Charles Simonyi Professor of Mathematical Physics, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University (Fields Medalist) Nelson Figueroa ’98, former pitcher, Major League Baseball; TV analyst, SNY Jeffrey Lurie, PhD’87, owner, Philadelphia Eagles Tim Morehouse ’00, Olympic medal-winning fencer To thee, Alma Mater, We’ll always be true. All Hail to thy standard, The white and the blue. Proclaiming thy future, Recalling thy past. Our hopes spring from mem’ries Eternally cast. With sorrows we’ll leave thee, New worlds to create. May deeds of thy children Make thee forever great!
