=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Broughton, Joseph Melville - NCpedia]
In 1948, Broughton ran for the U.S. Senate and defeated William B. Umstead, who had been appointed to fill the unexpired term of Josiah Bailey. Broughton took the oath of office on 31 Dec. 1948 and served the few months until his death.
URL: https://www.ncpedia.org/biography/broughton-joseph-melville

[J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia]
Joseph Melville Broughton Jr. (November 17, 1888 – March 6, 1949) was an American politician who served as the 60th governor of North Carolina from 1941 to 1945. He later briefly served as a United States senator from January 3, 1949, until his death in office approximately two months later.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._Melville_Broughton

[J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia]
Josh Stein - Wikipedia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josh_Stein

[J. Melville Broughton (1888 – 1949) - North Carolina History]
Broughton was elected to the United States Senate but died a few months after taking office, on March 6, 1949. He is buried in Raleigh, North Carolina. Governor Joseph M. Broughton, the only governor from Wake County, who served from 1941 to 1945 and led the state through most of World War II.
URL: https://northcarolinahistory.org/encyclopedia/j-melville-broughton-1941-1945/

[J. Melville Broughton 1888-1949 (H-53) | NC DNCR]
Dec 21, 2023 · In 1948 J. Melville Broughton defeated William B. Umstead who had been appointed to fill the unexpired term of Josiah W. Bailey in the United States Senate. Broughton took office on December 31, 1948, but died just over two months later, on March 6, 1949. He is buried in Montlawn Memorial Park in Raleigh. References:
URL: https://www.dncr.nc.gov/blog/2023/12/21/j-melville-broughton-1888-1949-h-53


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Broughton, Joseph Melville - NCpedia] ---
17 Nov. 1888–6 Mar. 1949 See also: Joseph Melville Broughton, Research Branch, NC Office of Archives and History, Alice Broughton Joseph Melville Broughton, governor of North Carolina and U.S. senator, was a Raleigh native, the son of Joseph Melville, head of the real estate firm of J. M. Broughton and Company, and Sallie Harris Broughton. His uncle, Needham Bryant Broughton operated a printing business. Graduating from the Hugh Morson Academy in 1906, the young Broughton entered Wake Forest College, graduating and entering law school there in 1910. That same year he was admitted to the bar, but he chose not to begin practice immediately. From 1910 to 1912, he was principal of the Bunn High School. In 1912 he was a reporter for the Winston-Salem Journal for a few months. He attended Harvard Law School for the 1912–13 year and began practicing law in Raleigh in 1914. Broughton rapidly became involved in political and civic affairs in his native city. He had campaigned for Wilson in 1912, while a student at Harvard. Back home, he served as chairman of the Democratic party executive committee for Wake County from 1914 until 1916. In 1918 he was appointed to the Wake Forest College Board of Trustees, a membership he was to hold until his death, except for one year. At the same time he became a member of the board of trustees for Shaw University and began service of many years as its general counsel. He was president of the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce in 1918. During the 1920s he served on the Raleigh School Board (1922–29) and was twice appointed city attorney (1921–24). Broughton twice won election to the state senate, serving from 1926 to 1930. As a member of the General Assembly, he pressed for extension of the school term and for workmen's compensation legislation. He also introduced and sponsored the Australian Ballot Act (1929). As a lawyer, he built up a very extensive civil practice, shunning criminal cases. In 1933 he served as president of the Wake County Bar Association, and he headed the North Carolina Bar Association in 1936. Also in 1936 he delivered the keynote speech at the Democratic State Convention. An active churchman, Broughton served as the Protestant chairman of the North Carolina Conference of Christians and Jews. In 1940, Broughton ran for governor, winning the primary against six opponents and avoiding a second primary when runner-up Wilkins P. Horton of Pittsboro declined the opportunity to call for one. Broughton campaigned strongly for Roosevelt and carried the largest gubernatorial vote in state history to that time, becoming the first Raleigh native to be elected. As wartime governor, his achievements covered a broad range: enactment of a teachers' and employees' retirement plan and a salary raise for teachers, extension of the school term to nine months and addition of the twelfth grade, state aid to public libraries, reorganization of and larger appropriations for state hospitals and correctional institutions, aid to agriculture, organization of the Civilian Defense program, establishment of the state Medical Care Commission, and removal of the sales tax on food for home consumption. As North Carolina's first "regional governor" in several years, Broughton was active in regional and national affairs. He served on the executive committee of the National Governors' Conference and participated in National Planning Association efforts for the postwar period. In 1944 he was nominated for vice-president when Roosevelt refused Wallace a second term. Broughton maintained many interests. From 1941 on, he served on The University of North Carolina Board of Trustees. He was president of the North Carolina Engineering Foundation, which supported the School of Engineering at North Carolina State College. He served as president of the Roanoke Island Historical Association and was a member of the Raleigh Board of Directors of Wachovia Bank. He continued an extensive law practice and engaged in many business activities. He acted as general counsel for the Flue-Cured Tobacco Cooperative Stabilization Corporation and the North Carolina State Ports Authority, both of which he had helped establish. In 1948, Broughton ran for the U.S. Senate and defeated William B. Umstead, who had been appointed to fill the unexpired term of Josiah Bailey. Broughton took the oath of office on 31 Dec. 1948 and served the few months until his death. Throughout his career, he represented those not connected with the monied interests and the so-called machine, and he never lost a political contest. An ardent Baptist, Broughton served as Sunday school superintendent at Tabernacle Baptist Church in Raleigh and taught the Men's Bible Class there for twenty-five years. When he went to Washington, he organized the Broughton Bible Class at the First Baptist Church. On 14 Dec. 1916, Broughton married Alice Harper Willson, daughter of William Willson, grand secretary of the Grand Lodge of Masons of North Carolina. She, like her husband, had been born, reared, and educated in Raleigh. They had four children, Alice Willson, Joseph Melville, Jr., Robert Bain, and Woodson Harris. Broughton died of a massive heart attack and was buried at Montlawn Memorial Park in Raleigh.


--- [J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia] ---
Joseph Melville Broughton Jr. (November 17, 1888 – March 6, 1949) was an American politician who served as the 60th governor of North Carolina from 1941 to 1945.  He later briefly served as a United States senator from January 3, 1949, until his death in office approximately two months later.


--- [J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia] ---
Joshua Harold Stein (born September 13, 1966) is an American politician and lawyer serving as the 76th governor of North Carolina since 2025. A member of the Democratic Party, Stein served as the 51st attorney general of North Carolina from 2017 to 2025 and in the North Carolina Senate from 2009 to 2016.
Born in Washington, D.C., Stein moved to North Carolina with his family at an early age. He studied at Dartmouth College and earned his Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School before being elected to represent North Carolina's 16th Senate district in 2008. Stein left the State Senate upon winning the Democratic nomination in the 2016 North Carolina Attorney General election, in which he defeated Republican nominee Buck Newton by 0.54%. He was reelected in 2020, narrowly defeating Republican nominee Jim O'Neill by 0.26%.
Stein chose not to seek a third term as state attorney general and instead ran for governor in the 2024 election. After winning the Democratic nomination, he defeated Republican nominee Mark Robinson in the general election by 14.82%. He is North Carolina's first Jewish governor.


--- [J. Melville Broughton (1888 – 1949) - North Carolina History] ---
In November 1940, J. Melville Broughton was elected to the North Carolina governorship amidst rising anxiety over the war in Europe. Nonetheless, Broughton successfully introduced extensive legislation, which improved public education, mapped out the state’s natural resources, and created the Good Health Program. His greatest legacy is considered to be extending the school term from six to nine months. Broughton is the only governor to come from Wake County. Born in Raleigh, North Carolina on November 17, 1888, Broughton attended public schools as a child. Following his graduation from Wake Forest College, Broughton was employed as a high school principal for two years before briefly working as a reporter for the Winston-Salem Journal. Soon after, Broughton was trained in law at Harvard College. He then transitioned to politics. After serving on the school board and as city attorney of Raleigh, Broughton was elected to the state senate in 1926 and completed two terms. In 1940, Broughton was chosen as Democratic gubernatorial nominee and defeated Robert H. McNeill, the Republican nominee. After taking office, Broughton used his party’s popularity and its control of the General Assembly to extend the school calendar to nine months; add a 12th grade to public schools; implement a retirement plan for state employees, including teachers; and allocate funds to public libraries and the arts. Broughton also provided funds to survey North Carolina for minerals and introduced the Good Health Program, a medical program that expanded medical care and hospital construction throughout North Carolina for the purpose of alleviating polio, malaria, and other diseases. Broughton was elected to the United States Senate but died a few months after taking office, on March 6, 1949. He is buried in Raleigh, North Carolina.


--- [J. Melville Broughton 1888-1949 (H-53) | NC DNCR] ---
Location: Glenwood Avenue in Raleigh County: Wake Original Date Cast: 1950 Joseph Melville Broughton, the only native of Wake County to serve as governor of North Carolina, led the state through most of the World War II era. Born in Raleigh on November 17, 1888, the “War Governor” was the son and namesake of Joseph Melville Broughton and the former Sallie Harris. His father, a real estate developer and insurance salesman, and uncle, Needham Broughton, helped organize Tabernacle Baptist Church in Raleigh, where the future governor for many years served as Sunday School superintendent and, for most of his adult life, taught the men’s Bible class. In Raleigh young Broughton attended the public schools and Hugh Morson Academy. From there he moved on to Wake Forest College, where he played football and graduated in 1910. Subsequently he served as principal of Bunn High School in Franklin County from 1910 to 1912 and, for a few months, as a reporter for the Winston-Salem Journal. Broughton studied law at Wake Forest and at Harvard and in 1914 began practicing in Raleigh. In 1916 he married Alice Willson; they had four children. In Raleigh Broughton took an active role in civic and political affairs, serving on the school board from 1922 to 1929 and as city attorney for several years. In 1926 and 1928 voters elected him to the state Senate, where he advanced workmen’s compensation and secret ballot legislation. After two terms Broughton returned to his law practice, preferring civil practice to criminal litigation. He was a respected legal scholar penning articles on trusts and the legal status of women. Broughton served as a trustee for his alma mater, Wake Forest College, as well as Shaw University and, in later years, the University of North Carolina. In 1936, a year in which he served as president of the state bar association, he delivered the keynote speech of the Democratic state convention. In 1940 Broughton led a field of seven candidates for the Democratic nomination after the first primary. Wilkins P. Horton, who placed second, declined to call for a runoff and in the fall Broughton defeated Republican Robert H. McNeill. Mounting concern over the war in Europe overshadowed the campaign. As governor Broughton, who had failed in his attempts to extend the school term to eight months as a legislator, endorsed and saw the legislature extend the term to nine months and add a twelfth grade to public schools. A retirement plan was instituted for state employees and, for the first time, the state provided aid to public libraries, the Art Society, and the Symphony Society. Governing boards for state hospitals and charitable institutions were consolidated. Broughton appointed a board of inquiry to investigate poor conditions in the mental hospital at Morganton. The governor launched an ambitious “Good Health Program” to extend medical care and hospital construction across the state. As part of that program the Medical Care Commission was established. The legislature, on the governor’s recommendation, removed the sales tax on all food items intended for home consumption. Like his predecessors J. C. B. Ehringhaus and Clyde Hoey, Broughton opposed the transfer of authority from the states to Washington and warned against increased federal power. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and U.S. entry into World War II took place eleven months into Broughton’s term. As Chief Executive in the state where more men were trained for service than any other, Broughton took charge of extensive civil defense and preparedness exercises. On April 9, 1941, he attended the commissioning of the U.S.S. North Carolina in New York. In 1944 he was nominated as a “favorite son” candidate for vice-president. Like most Southern governors of the time, Broughton’s record on race is a mixed bag. On one hand, he advocated for continued improvements in the lives of Black North Carolinians, such as: the equalization of White and Black teacher salaries; the construction of the Training School for Delinquent Negro Girls; greater improvements in housing; and the expansion of library and recreation services. In addresses to Black citizens, he celebrated their accomplishments, lauded their patriotism, and denounced those who would seek to do them harm. Any threat to segregation, however, was to be swiftly and publicly denounced. “We believe in a policy of purity…,” he wrote in 1943, “and we recognize the principle that race distinction does not imply race discrimination.” He chafed under criticism by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, seemed to take such criticism personally, and went public with his grievances. He claimed, wrongly, that racism had no impact on the parole, probation, and judicial systems in North Carolina. At the end of the day, he was a segregationist who staunchly denied segregation’s negative impact on the Black community. In 1948 J. Melville Broughton defeated William B. Umstead who had been appointed to fill the unexpired term of Josiah W. Bailey in the United States Senate. Broughton took office on December 31, 1948, but died just over two months later, on March 6, 1949. He is buried in Montlawn Memorial Park in Raleigh. References: Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971 (1971) David Leroy Corbitt, ed., Public Addresses, Letters and Papers of Joseph Melville Broughton, Governor of North Carolina, 1941-1945 (1950) Archibald Henderson, ed., North Carolina: The Old North State and the New, III (1941) Sarah McCulloh Lemmon, North Carolina’s Role in World War II (1964) William S. Powell, ed., Dictionary of North Carolina Biography, I, 238-239—sketch by William T. Moye (Raleigh) News and Observer, March 7, 1949 Robert Sobel and John Raimo, eds., Biographical Directory of the Governors of the United States, 1789-1978, III (1978) J. Melville Broughton Papers, North Carolina State Archives, Raleigh
