=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ozzfest lineups by year - Wikipedia]
Main stage Black Sabbath Ozzy Osbourne Marilyn Manson (Added to the line-up on June 15) Pantera Type O Negative Fear Factory Machine Head - were on second stage at the East Rutherford show and got cut off by Black Sabbath intro 2nd stage Powerman 5000 Slo Burn Drain STH downset. Neurosis Vision of Disorder Coal Chamber "That whole tour was like the Morbid Tour - it was a funeral on wheels ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozzfest_lineups_by_year

[May 24, 1997: OZZFEST '97 at Nissan Pavillion Bristow ...]
May 24, 1997 · Date: Saturday, May 24, 1997 Venue: Nissan Pavillion Location: Bristow, Virginia, United States Notes: This was the 1st stop on the tour and it was also the 1st time Ozzy had with the other seminal members of Black Sabbath after nearly 20 years ... 2ND STAGE: Coal Chamber, Slo Burn, Drain STH, Downset, Neurosis, Vision of Disorder. MAIN STAGE: Machine Head, Type O Negative, Powerman 5000, Fear ...
URL: https://www.concertarchives.org/concerts/ozzfest-97-fad80b4d-95b5-4f2c-b90d-e3b89ba3ea41

[Ozzfest article 1997 | Marc Allan - thetapesarchive.com]
The 10 1/2-hour show features Osbourne performing as a solo artist (which he's been since 1979) and with Black Sabbath. Also on the main stage: Pantera, Type O Negative, Fear Factory, Machinehead and Powerman 5000.
URL: https://www.thetapesarchive.com/articles-ozzfest-1997/

[Ozzfest 1997 featuring Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osbourne, Pantera, Type O ...]
The evolution of metal was exemplified at Ozzfest 1997 because of its diverse lineup, which consisted of underground bands like Drain S.T.H. and Neurosis, who were relegated to the second stage, and platinum-sellers like Pantera and Ozzy Osbourne.
URL: http://www.ram.org/music/reviews/ozzfest97.html

[Ozzfest: Looking Back on the Festival's Lineups - WDHA FM]
Jul 30, 2025 · Ozzfest: Looking Back on the Festival’s Lineups Ozzfest kicked off its first year on October 25, 1996. The festival was famously founded by Sharon Osbourne after Lollapalooza turned down Ozzy Osbourne for a spot on their lineup….
URL: https://wdhafm.com/2025/07/30/ozzfest-festival-lineup-history/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ozzfest lineups by year - Wikipedia] ---
Over the years, a variety of bands have made up the yearly lineups of Ozzfest, a yearly heavy metal music festival that usually tours the United States in summer.


--- [May 24, 1997: OZZFEST '97 at Nissan Pavillion Bristow ...] ---
No content


--- [Ozzfest article 1997 | Marc Allan - thetapesarchive.com] ---
Ozzfest article 1997 By Marc D. Allan Listen to the Ozzy Osbourne interview. When they got together last month, Ozzy Osbourne, Tony Iommi, and Geezer Butler reminisced about growing up in Birmingham, England, and their days in Black Sabbath. But did they rehearse for their reunion at Ozz-Fest? Nah. “We did try rehearsing,” Osbourne says, “because Sharon(Osbourne, his wife and manager) said, `Why don’t you have a jam and see if you can still play together?’ Not being cocksure here, but I had a little smile to myself and said, `We don’t have to have a rehearsal. We just have to see each other, turn around and play.’ “ Fans here will find out Wednesday whether Sabbath can pick up where it left off. That’s when Ozz-Fest stops at Deer Creek Music Center. The 10 1/2-hour show features Osbourne performing as a solo artist (which he’s been since 1979) and with Black Sabbath. Also on the main stage: Pantera, Type O Negative, Fear Factory, Machinehead and Powerman 5000. Marilyn Manson joins the tour June 15. But the Ozz- Fest buzz centers on the Sabbath reunion. Osbourne expects them to perform enduring hits such as Iron Man, War Pigs and Paranoid, as well as some songs they’ve never played. Demand for Sabbath reunion “Every time I walk out my bloody door, somebody says, `Will there ever be a chance of seeing you guys?’ ” he says by phone from his Los Angeles-area home. “Unfortunately, it’s not quite Black Sabbath because Billy’s not there. But it’s a good part of Black Sabbath.” Billy is drummer Bill Ward, who wasn’t invited to rejoin the group, which reunited for Live Aid in 1985 and briefly again in 1992. Mike Bordin, the drummer in Osbourne’s solo band, will fill in. “It’s nothing personal that I have against Bill Ward,” Osbourne says, taking great pains to explain the situation and sometimes speaking so fast that he sputters. “It’s just that when I go onstage, no matter what I’m feeling, I’ve got to give the best show I’ve got and leave petty – I call them petty, but they may be pretty serious to the people involved – problems in the dressing room. “It’s professionally not acceptable in my opinion to bring your problems onstage. The audience don’t want to know your likes and dislikes. All they want to do is bang their heads and reflect on the past.” Osbourne says the decision wasn’t his, anyway; Iommi and Butler didn’t want Ward. “They have to play the music,” he says. “It would have been great for me to get up there with Bill and everybody. I’m not going to start slagging Bill off. I don’t have anything bad to say about the man. But Tony and Geezer had played with him since I’d left and they said it just wouldn’t work. I don’t want to repeat what they said because it’s not my place to.” Representatives for Ward, who now records for Cleopatra Records, did not return a phone call requesting his side of the story. Even without Ward, Osbourne says the reunion thus far has been “like going back to see your family.” How it all began This family was founded in 1967 as the blues band Polka Tulk before becoming Earth. In 1969, it changed the name to Black Sabbath and began creating much of the foundation for today’s heavy metal. Slow down your Metallica discs a bit and you’ve more or less got Black Sabbath. Death, destruction, apocalyptic visions, and crushing heavy metal – that was Sabbath. But behind the scenes, it was four school chums who’d grown up within two miles of each other in a working-class British industrial town. When they found themselves in the same room again after several years, “we just talked about how each other’s moms and dads were,” Osbourne says. “Unfortunately, Tony’s mom just passed away last year, which is very sad. But we spent most of the time just reflecting on the old times. It was great to talk old war stories.” Such as? “I remembered when we first went to the States (in 1970) and we got on the plane from Heathrow Airport,” he says. “We were freaking out that the plane was in the air for seven hours without stopping for gas. We thought, `This thing is the size of a house. It’s got to stop for petrol somewhere.’ “ Osbourne left the band 18 years ago and has sustained a hugely successful solo career since. (His 1996 Ozzmosis tour drew more than 14,000 at Deer Creek Music Center.) Ozz- Fest part of a plan Still, at 48, he realizes this can’t go on forever. Ozz-Fest is part of his long-range planning – he wants it to go on after he stops performing – as is his new record company, Ozz Records. The label just released the live album and video from Ozz-Fest ’96, two days of metal that took place in Arizona and California. Osbourne doesn’t intend to quit anytime soon. He still gets a thrill from the stage and the audience. He tried to retire in 1992 – but couldn’t – and made a comeback with his Retirement Sucks tour. “I’ve got such a love for them people,” he says of his fans. “It’s like a love affair. It’s like when you wait for a girlfriend and you’re all bubbly and all excited to see ’em. You get that nice feeling inside when you see the person you really want to be with. And that’s what I feel with my audience, you know? It’s better than any drug, anything I’ve ever had.” So that’s why retirement “sucked”? Absolutely,” he says. “I missed my girlfriend.”


--- [Ozzfest 1997 featuring Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osbourne, Pantera, Type O ...] ---
Some may consider heavy metal music to be dead, but if they had been at the opening show of Ozzfest 1997, they would have realised that not only is metal alive and healthy, but that it has mutated and evolved into different forms that represent a far cry from its origins almost 30 years ago. The evolution of metal was exemplified at Ozzfest 1997 because of its diverse lineup, which consisted of underground bands like Drain S.T.H. and Neurosis, who were relegated to the second stage, and platinum-sellers like Pantera and Ozzy Osbourne. Most of all, it heralded the much-touted reunion of one of the most original and inventive metal bands of all time, Black Sabbath, with Ozzy Osbourne, Tony Iommi, and Geezer Butler. It was this spectacle that a full crowd had come to watch at the Nissan Pavillion in Manassas, VA. There were two pleasant surprises for me at the show, and I'll begin with them: Drain S.T.H. is a four-piece band from Sweden. The band, which is all-female, combined catchy riffs with melodic vocals with quite a bit of freshness and intensity, and proved to be a definite crowd pleaser. This is a band with great commercial potential (they have the looks, the hard edge, and the riffs) and I'd definitely keep an eye out for them. This was the first time I was seeing Neurosis, who have been in the underground metal scene for a while now, and I was definitely impressed. They were the most intense band of the entire show, and perhaps the most intense band I've ever seen. At the end of Neurosis' second set, three of the band members got together and jammed on the drums in perfect syncrony, in a way that would have given King Crimson a run for their money. Both Neurosis and Drain S.T.H. deserved to be on the main stage. The first band on the main stage was Powerman 5000, who sounded like cheap clones of Rage Against the Machine and White Zombie. This was the band I was least impressed with. They were followed by Machine Head, and although they were better than the former band, the music wasn't something I got into. For both these bands I had problems with the mix and that made it all the more harder to get into them. Next up was Fear Factory, and their set was surprising as well. The last time I saw Fear Factory was when they opened for Iron Maiden, and the band put on a more aggressive and ferocious show then. This time around, frontman Burton Bell seemed a lot calmer (even though when he was singing the veins in his forehead and neck appeared as if they were going to pop out) and actually smiled every so often. The set they played consisted of Demanufacture, Zero Signal, Self-Bias Resistor, Replica, and Scapegoat. As usual, I was impressed with Bell's alternating vocal style between the growling death metal and the clean vocals. The best song Fear Factory played, and one which I think heralds a great new direction for the band, was Genetic Blueprint which is a remix of New Breed from Demanufacture (which at least to me seemed different from the remix on the Demanufacture Digipak). This song combined electronic noise in what I considered to be a novel way with the death metal sound of the band. Of course, as was pointed out to me during the show, Neurosis actually did that a bit better. Type O Negative provided a refreshing change of pace from the manic aural assault of the previous bands. While most of the crowd seemed unfamiliar with their music, they endeared themselves by playing covers of The Doors' Light My Fire and Neil Young's Cinnamon Girl. I skipped most of Pantera (at least visually) because I don't think very much of them. However, the last bit I caught was interesting for the sole reason that huge chunks of lawn started flying around (à la Woodstock '94) displaying a remarkable complex/emergent phenomenon. I thought the part where Phil Anselmo came back after the band had left the stage and appealed to the crowd to stop throwing the chunks of law around for Ozzy Osbourne's sake, saying they (Pantera) didn't mind it, was cool. Ozzy Osbourne's solo performance was the longest of the entire festival. Before he took the stage they showed a video with him parodying celebrities (Princess Diana) and movies (Pulp Fiction, Forrest Gump). The video was hilarious and was one of the highlights of the day. Unfortunately, Osbourne failed to live up to this level of intellectual humour for the rest of his performance, resorting to a water cannon and pulling down his pants for cheap laughs. The songs he played, which were all well-executed, included Bark at the Moon, Mr. Crowley, No More Tears, Mama I'm Coming Home, and Crazy Train (played to a backdrop video of the band way back before Randy Rhoads' death and prefixed by Osbourne urging everyone to go crazy for him). A notable exception from the set was Shot in the Dark. The band supporting Osbourne consisted of Mike Bordin (of Faith No More) on drums, Robert Trujillo (of Suicidal Tendencies) on bass and Joe Holmes on guitar. Bordin and Trujillo, of course, are good musicians. I had never heard Holmes before but he too was really good, playing all the Rhoads' parts with style. All in all, it was a good set, but a bit too long. One of the things I liked in this set was that instead of individual solos by the band members, an extended jam was played that showcased the talents of the musicians collectively better than a solo would have. Finally, it was time to see the band we had all come to see. Watching Black Sabbath with Ozzy Osbourne, Tony Iommi, and Geezer Butler from the third row was terrific. I never thought I'd see the day when Ozzy Osbourne and Tony Iommi would smile at each other. The band riffed through a set consisting of War Pigs (a song that is profound in its impact even today), Sleeping Village (a surprise), Snowblind, Sweet Leaf, Black Sabbath, Children of the Grave, Iron Man, and Fairies Wear Boots. They played Paranoid for an encore. Iommi was in top form, pulling out riff after riff, and solo after solo. Geezer Butler's bass playing was demonic. And Mike Bordin, who was replacing Bill Ward in the reunion, did a great job on the drums. I cannot express in words how cleanly the music flowed, and how smoothly it came together, even though there were awkward spots here and there. This was a significant moment in my heavy metal history. While the overall experience was positive, a few things happened that detracted from enjoyment of the show: First, Osbourne's water gun definitely has to go. While it was okay the first couple of times, the repeated dousing of water was annoying, especially when it happened as Iommi was playing a cool solo. Second, the band needs to rehearse more with Osbourne to smooth out the rough edges and get his vocals in shape for a long set (or reduce the length of his solo set). Finally, some moron during the encore decided to jump the stage and the crowd followed Osbourne's instructions: chairs (and people) were ripped apart as Paranoid was played. I acknowledge that without Osbourne this show would never have happened, and I admire his stand for Marilyn Manson (who was asked to be taken off the bill by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority), but I think the show would've been better without the antics of both Osbourne and the crowd. While Osbourne's vocals were fine during his solo set, I thought he had problems during the Black Sabbath set, particularly during Children of the Grave. I also thought that his movement on stage was a bit awkward. From what I hear, he recently had surgery done on his throat and he has arthritis in his hip. During the show, I was able to introspect on my tastes in music and how they've changed. I realised that it's a lot easier for me to get into older stuff than the newer stuff, and I realised why this is. Songs like War Pigs and Paranoid are timeless. They've undergone the process of selection from a large population of songs and survived. I've never heard a lot of the mediocre bands or songs from the 70s. A lot of the newer stuff from the newer bands simply hasn't undergone the same selection and it will take a while to sift the wheat from the chaff. The Ozzfest is set up as a part carnival (Never Never Land), with some games and a very noisy clown who also provided some comedic entertainment. While the T-shirts and food items are terribly overpriced, the bands themselves are definitely worth the price of the ticket. I highly recommend checking it out, even if you're even remotely into heavy metal music, not just to see the reunion of three of the most influential names in rock, but also to check out newer bands like Drain S.T.H. and Neurosis.


--- [Ozzfest: Looking Back on the Festival's Lineups - WDHA FM] ---
Ozzfest: Looking Back on the Festival’s Lineups Ozzfest kicked off its first year on October 25, 1996. The festival was famously founded by Sharon Osbourne after Lollapalooza turned down Ozzy Osbourne for a spot on their lineup…. Ozzfest kicked off its first year on October 25, 1996. The festival was famously founded by Sharon Osbourne after Lollapalooza turned down Ozzy Osbourne for a spot on their lineup. Ozzfest would later expand to a touring festival traveling throughout the United States and have stints in Europe and Japan. Scroll through the gallery below to see past lineups from the history of Ozzfest. 1996 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Slayer, Danzig, Biohazard, Sepultura, Fear Factory, Neurosis, Narcotic Gypsy. 1997 Main stage: Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osbourne, Marilyn Manson, Pantera, Type O Negative, Fear Factory. 1998 (U.K. Edition) Main stage: Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osbourne, Foo Fighters, Pantera, Soulfly, Slayer, Fear Factory, Therapy? 1998 (U.S. Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Tool, Megadeth, Limp Bizkit, Soulfly, Sevendust, Coal Chamber, Motorhead. 1999 Main stage: Black Sabbath, Rob Zombie, Deftones, Slayer, Primus featuring Buckethead, System of a Down, Godsmack. 2000 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Pantera, Godsmack, Static-X, Incubus, Methods of Mayhem, P.O.D., Queens of the Stone Age, Black Label Society, Apartment 26. 2001 (U.K. Edition) Main stage: Black Sabbath, Slipknot, Tool, Papa Roach, Soulfly, Hed PE, Raging Speedhorn. 2001 (U.S. Edition) Main stage: Black Sabbath, Marilyn Manson, Slipknot, Papa Roach, Linkin Park, Disturbed, Crazy Town, Black Label Society. 2002 (Germany & Belgium Edition) Ozzy Osbourne, Tool, System of a Down, Bad Religion, P.O.D., Drowning Pool, Black Label Society Oomph!, Such a Surge. 2002 (England Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Tool, System of a Down, Slayer, Lostprophets, Millencolin, Cradle of Filth, Drowning Pool, The Mad Capsule Markets, Black Label Society, AntiProduct 2002 (Ireland Edition) Main stage: Tool, System of a Down, Slayer, Therapy?, Lostprophets, Drowning Pool, Cyclefly, Black Label Society. 2002 (Poland & Czech Republic Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Tool, Slayer, AntiProduct, Decapitated, Metalium, Royal Playboy Cartel, Black Label Society, Skwor, Astro Metro. 2002 (Netherlands Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Tool, Slayer, Within Temptation, Kittie, Ill Nino, Drowning Pool. 2002 (Portugal Edition) Main stage: Tool, Slayer, Ill Nino, Kittie, Drowning Pool, AntiProduct, 500 & Crave Ramp. 2002 (U.S. Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, System of a Down, Rob Zombie, P.O.D., Drowning Pool, Adema, Black Label Society, Tommy Lee. 2003 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Korn, Marilyn Manson, Disturbed, Chevelle, The Datsuns. 2004 Main stage: Black Sabbath, Judas Priest, Slayer, Dimmu Borgir, Superjoint Ritual, Black Label Society. 2005 (U.K. Download Festival Edition) Main stage: Black Sabbath, Velvet Revolver, HIM, Anthrax, Alter Bridge, A, Bowling for Soup, The Mad Capsule Markets, The Dwarves, Trivium. 2005 (U.S. Edition) Main stage: Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Mudvayne, Shadows Fall, Black Label Society, In Flames, Velvet Revolver, Slipknot, Drowning Pool. 2006 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, System of a Down, Disturbed, Avenged Sevenfold, Hatebreed, Lacuna Coil, DragonForce. 2007 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Lamb of God, Static-X, Lordi, Black Tide. 2008 Main stage: Metallica, Ozzy Osbourne, Serj Tankian, Hellyeah, Jonathan Davis, Cavalera Conspiracy, Shadows Fall, Apocalyptica, In This Moment, All Star Dimebag Darrell Tribute. 2010 (United States Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Motley Crue, Halford, Devildriver, Nonpoint. 2010 (U.K. Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Korn, Murderdolls, Steel Panther, Skindred. 2010 (Israel Edition) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Korn, Soulfly, Betzefer. 2013 (Japan Edition) Slipknot, Slash featuring Myles Kennedy and the Conspirators, Deftones, Maximum the Hormone, Man with a Mission, Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas, The Treatment, Namba 69, crossfaith, Galneryus, Momoiro Clover Z, Knock Out Monkey, Artema, Black Sabbath, Tool, Stone Sour, Dir En Grey, Anthem, coldrain, Steel Panther, Mucc, AA=, Ningen Isu, Head Phones President, and fade. 2015 (Japan Edition) Korn, Evanescence, Bullet for My Valentine, Noisemaker, VAMPS, ONE OK ROCK, Crossfaith, Corey Taylor, MEANING, Crystal Lake, SiM, Ozzy and Friends, Jane's Addiction, Hatebreed, A Day to Remember, Black Label Society, Babymetal, Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas, 9mm Parabellum Bullet, Her Name in Blood, Ningen Isu, and OLDCODEX. 2016 (Ozzfest Meets Knotfest) Main stage (aka: Lemmy Stage): Black Sabbath, Disturbed, Megadeth, Opeth, Black Label Society, Rival Sons, Slipknot, Slayer, Amon Amarth, Anthrax, Trivium, Motionless in White. 2017 (Ozzfest Meets Knotfest) Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Prophets of Rage, Deftones, Children of Bodom, Orange Goblin, Rob Zombie, Marilyn Manson, Stone Sour, Eighteen Visions, Prayers. 2018 Main stage: Ozzy Osbourne, Rob Zombie, Marilyn Manson, Jonathan Davis, Body Count.
