=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Morris Villarroel - Wikipedia]
As of December 2019 he had filled up 307 notebooks. [1] In April 2014 Villaroel started wearing a camera on his chest that automatically took photographs every 30 seconds, totalling about 1,200 per day. [2][4] He wore it for most of the day, but took it off in private moments such as in the bedroom.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morris_Villarroel

[One man's 10-year experiment to record every moment - BBC]
Dec 2, 2019 · In February 2010, Morris Villarroel started an ambitious 10-year experiment. The scientist, based at the Polytechnic University of Madrid, had just turned 40, and like many people after a ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20191202-can-lifelogging-really-help-you-live-more-intensely

[Biography:Morris Villarroel - HandWiki]
Dec 16, 2025 · As of December 2019 [update] he had filled up 307 notebooks. [1] In April 2014 Villaroel started wearing a camera on his chest that automatically took photographs every 30 seconds, totalling about 1,200 per day. [2][4] He wore it for most of the day, but took it off in private moments such as in the bedroom.
URL: https://handwiki.org/wiki/Biography:Morris_Villarroel

[Notario de su vida - El Diario Vasco]
Jan 19, 2020 · Notario de su vida Morris Villarroel, profesor universitario y miembro del movimiento 'Quantified self', anota cada hora de su existencia en una libreta
URL: https://www.diariovasco.com/sociedad/notario-vida-20200119005636-ntvo.html

[Morris Villarroel - Wikidata]
In February 2010, Morris Villarroel started an ambitious 10-year experiment. The scientist, based at the Polytechnic University of Madrid, had just turned 40, and like many people after a milestone birthday, began to take stock of his life.(English)
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q41118030


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Morris Villarroel - Wikipedia] ---
Morris Villarroel (born 1978 or 1979) is a Spanish professor of animal psychology at the Technical University of Madrid. He is also a lifelogger who, since 2010, has been writing what he is currently doing, his location, the food he has eaten, the time he wakes up and his ideas on paper notebooks at 15 to 30 minute intervals every day.


--- [One man's 10-year experiment to record every moment - BBC] ---
One man’s 10-year experiment to record every moment A Spanish scientist records all his activities so he can learn how to live more effectively. But what do you gain from forensically tracking every part of your day? In February 2010, Morris Villarroel started an ambitious 10-year experiment. The scientist, based at the Polytechnic University of Madrid, had just turned 40, and like many people after a milestone birthday, began to take stock of his life. Wouldn’t it be useful to have a more complete and concrete record of his life, he thought? Not only would it help him to remember more of his past; it might also help him figure out how to live the rest of his life more effectively, and to make the most of his time. And so he started to keep detailed log books of his every movement. Each day’s entry begins the night before, when he will make a plan for the day ahead. On the day itself, he makes notes every 15 minutes to half an hour detailing where he is and what he’s doing – whether that is a simple metro journey, a class at his university or an interview with a journalist, like me. “I’ll write down now that I'm speaking to you. And then, more or less how much time that took and some of the questions you're asking,” he says at the start of our conversation. He’ll then review those notes later, he says, “if I have a moment where I'm waiting in a line up in a supermarket or if I have to wait for a doctor's appointment or a meeting or a phone call”. Once the notebook is filled up, he’ll carefully index its contents in Microsoft Excel and move on to the next one. Socrates argued that the “unexamined life is not worth living” – and few have examined their lives as much as Villarroel. He is part of a growing community of “self-trackers” who meticulously collect data on their lives in the pursuit of greater self-knowledge. He’s now nine years and nine months – and 307 notebooks – into his 10-year experiment. What has he learned? And would it be wise for us all to take a leaf out of his log books? When he first set out on this project, one of Villarroel’s primary goals was time management: to better understand how he was spending time, and the effects of those activities on his health and happiness. He used to drive to work, for example, but once he started keeping his log books, he noticed that he would get upset by small incidents like someone cutting in front of him, which caused stress that would linger throughout the day. “Now I take the metro and walk to work – and that also ends up being better for my back,” he says. Such small improvements may not seem revolutionary, but together they have improved his overall life satisfaction. “The good things slowly take over the more negative things.” The log books have similarly helped him to learn better from experiences at work, such as giving classes or conference talks. “You can see all the little details and how to improve them,” he says. Without his records, those ideas would have been forgotten. And with the data entered into the spreadsheet, he can keep track of how long he’s spending on different projects and adjust his priorities accordingly. In tutorials with students, meanwhile, his detailed notes mean that he is better able to remember their previous conversations and tailor the discussions to suit their personal needs. More generally, Villarroel says that the log books have helped to improve his emotional regulation, so he’s now less reactive in stressful situations. “I think: ‘Well, this has happened in the past and I've seen it all these different times, so now I can control myself a bit better,’” he says. In a way, he adds, the process of self-reflection helps you take a third-person perspective on events – as if you are a outside observer – so you see a situation more dispassionately. As he’d hoped, he also appreciates having a more complete record of his life, compared to his vaguer recollections of the past. “I can go through and really look at the details of every day and almost every hour of every day over those 10 years,” he says. “Whereas if I look from 30 to 40, I know lots of things happened, but I can't go [into] the granular details about what was happening.” The sheer density of that record creates the impression of time dilation, he says – as if he has lived a longer life. “I have the impression that these 10 years from 40 to 50 have gone slower,” he says. Villarroel’s observations are shared by many other ‘self-trackers’, who use various strategies to record and analyse their life experiences. Many of them describe this as the ‘Quantified Self’ – with the aim of using data to know themselves better. Consider 36-year-old James Norris, for instance, the founder of the social enterprise Upgradable who is now based in Bali, Indonesia. He began recording life events at the age of 16, with his first kiss: he wanted to make sure he could remember the event for posterity. Since then, he has made a point of noting down any “first” in his life – any time he’s been to a new place, or eaten a new food (most recently, a charcoal burger), or tried any new experience (like skydiving). He’s now counted 1,850 of these events in total. He also regularly tracks things like his productivity, his predictions for the future and his errors. The records are stored in an easily searchable computer database. “Every time I want to go back and remember something, I can just go and look for a certain year or keyword, and then I can remember and feel it.” Like Villarroel, he thinks this helps to guide him on the best ways to spend his time. Being able to recall so many first-time experiences is also good for his confidence, he says – and makes him braver when he has to venture outside his comfort zone. It can also provide a mood boost when he’s feeling down. “If you remember the good things, you can savour it more and that’s good for your wellbeing,” he says. And this creates the impression of having lived longer and more intensely. “It’s an easy, cheap way of just getting more value out of life.” Although few scientists have studied this kind of dedicated self-tracking, there is good evidence that daily journaling can bring benefits. A study by Francesca Gino at Harvard Business School, for instance, looked at a group of call centre employees undergoing technical training. She found that spending just 10 minutes a day writing a journal on the day’s activities boosted their performance by more than 20%. Outside work, there is also ample evidence that writing and reflecting in a journal can boost your life satisfaction and happiness. Villarroel and Norris’s experiences would certainly fit those patterns. So while many of us may struggle to keep such detailed records of our lives, most psychologists would agree that even a few minutes spent on self-reflection can pay large dividends – even if that simply means recognising some of the more mundane everyday pleasures that make life a little more enjoyable. If keeping a written journal doesn’t appeal, there are alternative ways of self-tracking. You can now buy portable “lifelogging” cameras that take photos every 30 seconds or so throughout the day, for instance. These devices are sometimes given to people with dementia, but people have also adopted them to keep track of their own lives. Many of these users claim that the photos act as a memory aid, with certain pictures prompting vivid “Proustian moments” – named after the French novelist Marcel Proust’s detailed recollections evoked by the taste of a madeleine. “A lot of details start flooding back,” says Ali Mair, a psychologist at the University of Hertfordshire, “that all come together and give this very rich memory, and it just seems to come out of nowhere.” It seems that somehow the images, caught on the fly, act as a special psychological trigger that will bring about the details of events, in full. Mair emphasises that this is mostly anecdotal evidence, though, and while some research would seem to support these stories, we need much more scientific evidence before they could be recommended as a memory boost. The hope is that one day, image processing software will be advanced enough to automatically catalogue these pictures and draw out the most salient features, which could allow you to keep track of things like what you’re eating, who you’re meeting or what you’re doing. This could be combined with other data on your FitBit, for instance, to build a complete picture of your life and what you were doing at any moment. Cathal Gurrin, a computer scientist at Dublin City University who specialises in lifelogging, describes this as a kind of “search engine for the self”. “It’s a deep dive into a person’s life experience,” he says. By automatically searching through those photos, you’d be able to recall particular incidents that may not naturally come to mind, such as when you last saw a person or how you came to own a certain possession – without you having to manually note down everything. He thinks that this kind of technology will be especially important if “smart” glasses, which would all carry a portable camera, can finally manage to break into the consumer market. (While Google’s attempts ended in disappointment, Apple reportedly have some plans in the works.) For the time being, Villarroel is happy to stick with his notebooks. He says he once owned a lifelogging camera and used it for a few years, but he simply found it too arduous to keep track of all the photos. “Sometimes that would be fun, but sometimes it'd be more tedious,” he says. Pen and paper, combined with his Excel spreadsheet indexing his logs’ contents, are still his preferred means of recording his experiences. He estimates that he now spends at least an hour a day in total taking notes, though some of that is offset by the gains in efficiency that have come from his improved time management. He admits there are some downsides to this: he can feel frustrated when he looks back at periods that have been particularly unproductive, for instance. “But I really don’t tend to be judgemental looking backwards,” he adds. Nor does he find that it leads him to dwell too much on painful events. “I’ve found that if something bad happened which I blame myself for, looking at the notebook helps put it into context,” he adds. “So overall it tends to make me feel like I did [the best] I could.” Nor have his family complained too much, though he jokes that’s partly because it helps him to remember good ideas for birthday gifts. The author Zadie Smith has previously said that she writes to avoid “sleepwalking through life”. It strikes me that Villarroel’s journals are serving this purpose by making him more vividly aware of his experiences. His original 10-year-experiment was due to end this February, but he’s decided to continue after that point. “It's a habit that I’ve adopted into the whole of my life,” he says. “I know it sounds a bit corny, but it’s a way to live life a bit more intensely.”


--- [Biography:Morris Villarroel - HandWiki] ---
Biography:Morris Villarroel Morris Villarroel | | |---|---| Villaroel in 2024 | | | Born | 1978/1979 (age 46–47) | | Nationality | Spain | | Occupation | Professor of animal psychology | | Known for | Lifelogging | Morris Villarroel (born 1978/1979[1]) is a Spanish professor of animal psychology at the Technical University of Madrid.[1][2] He is also a lifelogger who, since 2010, has been writing what he is currently doing, his location, the food he has eaten, the time he wakes up and his ideas on paper notebooks at 15 to 30 minute intervals every day. Logging Since February 2010, Villarroel has been lifelogging. He does this by writing what he is currently doing and where he is located in a notebook, at intervals from about 15 to 30 minutes.[1] He also logs the times he wakes up, the food he eats, and his ideas.[1][3] He also records his movements with a fitness tracker. An example of a log entry he wrote is "I woke up at 05:45 in a hotel in Sweden. My hind leg muscles were hurting a bit."[2] Once the notebooks fill up, he indexes them in a spreadsheet,[1] with categories and keywords.[2] In 2019 he estimated that he spends about an hour a day writing in his notebook.[1] He originally planned to do it for 10 years, as an experiment, but once 10 years was over, he decided to continue. He started logging his life with the idea that it could improve his memory and time management skills,[1] and give him a clearer record of what he had done in his life.[2] He has said that it makes him feel like he has lived a longer life, and says that it improves his emotional regulation. As of December 2019[update] he had filled up 307 notebooks.[1] In April 2014 Villaroel started wearing a camera on his chest that automatically took photographs every 30 seconds, totalling about 1,200 per day.[2][4] He wore it for most of the day, but took it off in private moments such as in the bedroom. Some examples of memories he has captured includes when his father died, and when his son was born.[2] He said that while some people could be uncomfortable around the camera, most were supportive of it.[4] He stopped using it after a few years due to difficulty keeping track of the amount of photos it took.[1] Personal life Both of Villarroel's parents are psychologists.[3] Villarroel is married, and has five children.[4][3] Selected works - Sañudo, C; Macie, E.S; Olleta, J.L; Villarroel, M; Panea, B; Albertı́, P (2004). "The effects of slaughter weight, breed type and ageing time on beef meat quality using two different texture devices". Meat Science 66 (4): 925–932. doi:10.1016/j.meatsci.2003.08.005. ISSN 0309-1740. PMID 22061026. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.meatsci.2003.08.005. - Miranda-de la Lama, G.C.; Villarroel, M.; María, G.A. (2014). "Livestock transport from the perspective of the pre-slaughter logistic chain: a review". Meat Science 98 (1): 9–20. doi:10.1016/j.meatsci.2014.04.005. ISSN 0309-1740. PMID 24824530. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.meatsci.2014.04.005. - König, Bettina; Janker, Judith; Reinhardt, Tilman; Villarroel, Morris; Junge, Ranka (2018). "Analysis of aquaponics as an emerging technological innovation system". Journal of Cleaner Production 180: 232–243. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.01.037. ISSN 0959-6526. Bibcode: 2018JCPro.180..232K. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.01.037. See also - Quantified self - Robert Shields References - ↑ 1.01.11.21.31.41.51.61.71.8 David, Robson (2 December 2019). "One man's 10-year experiment to record every moment". BBC. https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20191202-can-lifelogging-really-help-you-live-more-intensely. - ↑ 2.02.12.22.32.42.5 Hooper, Richard (3 November 2016). "The man who records his entire life". BBC. https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-37631646. - ↑ 3.03.13.2 Rathi, Akshat (9 October 2015). "A man who recorded every detail of his life for five years has the ultimate way to live in the moment". Quartz. https://qz.com/519298/the-story-of-a-man-who-recorded-every-detail-of-his-life-for-five-years. - ↑ 4.04.14.2 Stump, Scott (26 October 2015). "Man records every detail of his life for the past 5 years — with no plans to stop". Today.com. https://www.today.com/money/man-records-every-detail-his-life-past-5-years-no-t51921. External links Original source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morris Villarroel. Read more |


--- [Notario de su vida - El Diario Vasco] ---
Notario de su vida Morris Villarroel, profesor universitario y miembro del movimiento 'Quantified self', anota cada hora de su existencia en una libreta SUSANA ZAMORA Domingo, 19 de enero 2020, 14:21 Sus últimos diez años están resumidos en 2.800.000 palabras. Una década registrada minuto a minuto, a papel y boli, en 312 libretas. Todas ... idénticas, que ahora lucen numeradas en una gran estantería en su casa. Recuerdos plasmados con precisión mientras ocurrían, desde que se despertaba hasta que se volvía a acostar. Así los 365 días de cada año, ya fuera invierno o verano, trabajase o estuviese de vacaciones. Cada observación, cada pensamiento, cada experiencia; desgracias personales, éxitos laborales, comidas, horas de sueño, reuniones familiares, cenas con amigos... Todo pasa por su puño y letra, como notario de su propio devenir. Siempre con su bolígrafo negro 'Bic'. No quiere otro. Como mínimo apunta algo cada hora, pero sin valoraciones. «No es un diario al uso», afirma. Lo que come, con quien habla... Como cuando atendió a este periódico por teléfono. Lo hace en español o en inglés. De media, cada jornada la despacha en cinco o seis hojas. Once días después, empieza otro cuaderno de 60 páginas. No vale cualquiera. Cuando estudió Bioquímica en Montreal (Canadá) tenía que trabajar en el laboratorio siempre con el mismo. Ahora reproduce un método idéntico. «Me gustan unos de la marca japonesa Muji, sin anillas y que tienen un tamaño A5, ni muy grandes ni muy pequeños, así si pierdo alguno no es un drama. Ahora trato de adaptarme a la cuadrícula, porque han dejado de hacerlos con líneas. Cada hoja traía 36 y me ayudaba a organizar la información mejor. Además, son lo suficientemente presentables para sacarlos tanto en un supermercado como en una reunión formal de trabajo», explica Morris Villarroel (Lovaina, Bélgica, 49 años). Huye del móvil para estos registros. Confiesa que lo ha intentado, pero que ha sido imposible por «ineficaz». «Tardo más en introducir el pin y abrir la aplicación que en sacar la libreta de mi bolsillo y empezar a escribir cómodamente. Además, puedo llevarla a cualquier sitio, sin miedo a perderla o a que me la roben y, lo mejor, no necesita de batería para estar operativa», bromea Villarroel. Cuando cumplió 40 años e hizo balance de su vida, este profesor titular del área de Producción Animal de la Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingenieros Agrónomos de la Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM) reparó en que había olvidado mucha información y que le faltaban datos sobre experiencias pasadas de las que aprender para sacarle el máximo provecho al resto de su vida. «Sentí la necesidad de mirar atrás y hacer balance. Me había casado, había tenido hijos, estaba más o menos contento y con más o menos dinero, pero no tenía cuantificado qué es lo que había hecho para explicar ese resultado», relata. Punto de inflexión Por eso, el mismo día de su cumpleaños decidió que eso no volvería a pasar y que a partir de ese momento dejaría constancia con pelos y señales de todo lo que aconteciese. «Me propuse apuntar cómo vivía cada minuto del día e intentar emplear más tiempo en lo que realmente me hiciera feliz. Pero necesitaba datos, ver qué me afecta más para bien o para mal para poder tomar medidas», recalca. Solo así ha podido saber con detalle en qué gasta, o malgasta, su presente para sacarle el máximo «jugo» a su futuro. Hace diez años decidió unirse al movimiento 'Quantified Self', que reúne a personas de todo el mundo interesadas en monitorizar diferentes aspectos de su vida para conocerse mejor y mejorar. El término lo acuñaron en 2007 Gary Wolf y Kevin Kelly, editores de la revista 'Wired', cuando organizaron un encuentro de treinta apasionados de los sensores como medio para proporcionar datos sobre sus propios cuerpos. En la actualidad, son una comunidad de 20.000 personas y su organización gana adeptos gracias a los 'wearables' (dispositivos electrónicos que se llevan en el cuerpo y que interactúan con otros aparatos para transmitir o recoger algún tipo de dato), como los relojes inteligentes, muy apreciados en el mundo del deporte profesional, la sanidad o la industria. Pero Morris Villarroel es un «bicho raro» en este particular ecosistema. «A mí me gusta más el papel y boli», recalca este experto en el estudio del bienestar animal, que aterrizó en España hace 25 años para completar su tesis doctoral con un análisis del comportamiento de las aves del desierto aragonés de Los Monegros. Aún así confiesa que contabiliza sus pasos diarios con el móvil. «Me ha servido para comprobar que los días que no doy al menos 800 pasos me duele más la espalda», concluye. En su afán por registrarlo todo, este científico se pasó al 'life-logging' (registro visual de su vida) colocándose en la botonadura de su camisa o chaqueta una cámara 'Narrative' que tomaba fotografías cada 30 segundos. Durante tres años reunió millón y medio de imágenes, unas 1.200 al día, que acabó desbordándolo. Aprovechó que el fabricante quebró y no encontró otro modelo similar para liberarse de esa carga de trabajo. De padre boliviano y madre canadiense, este belga ha ido perfeccionando su 'big data' personal, que empieza la noche anterior cuando anota todas las horas del día siguiente con los eventos que tiene, los hábitos que sigue cada mañana y las tareas pendientes. Nada más levantarse, apunta a qué hora lo ha hecho, cómo ha dormido, qué desayuna y cuándo sale de casa. «En mi camino de 20 minutos al metro escribo cada día lo que veo. Puede parecer lo mismo, una rutina monótona, pero no lo es: ni la temperatura, ni el ruido, ni la gente con la que te cruzas», relata. Pero no siempre puede apuntar lo que acontece mientras lo está viviendo, como cuando disfruta de una animada reunión entre amigos. Lo hace a posteriori. Precisamente, cuantificar esas quedadas, especificar las conversaciones que tuvieron y contextualizarlas en el tiempo le han servido para darse cuenta de lo «feliz» que se sentía al hacerlo y para adoptar la determinación de verse más a menudo. «Mi vida ahora es más tranquila; le saco más provecho. Tener toda la información que rodea un suceso y repasarla con sosiego me ayuda a comprender por qué ha ocurrido de ese modo y a no dejarme llevar por el primer impulso». Dice que esa libreta es «como encontrar un amigo en ti», al que siempre puede acudir, que le permite tomar perspectiva de las cosas y verlas con menos pasión. «También he reparado en la cantidad de cosas que olvido y cuyo vacío temporal acabo llenando con otros pensamientos que no tienen nada que ver con ese evento», aclara. En contraposición, Villarroel se ha vuelto una persona más impaciente. En su ánimo por no desperdiciar su tiempo, se ha percatado de los periodos improductivos que se producen a lo largo del día y que ahora intenta evitar. Noticia Relacionada 'Bullet Journal', un fenómeno en auge Asegura que muchas veces aprovecha «tiempos muertos», como la cola de un supermercado para dejar constancia de lo ocurrido minutos atrás. Tal cantidad de información queda ordenada en el encabezamiento de cada hoja. Allí escribe cinco palabras clave con los principales acontecimientos del día. Al final de cada libreta, elabora un índice con todas ellas, que posteriormente pasa a un documento Excel para analizarlas. «No sé si esto será un buen legado para mis cinco hijos o más bien una carga de papel. No me preocupa que acabe en la basura; tiene valor para mí, pero para nadie más. El análisis de esos datos y mis reflexiones quedan publicados en su blog www.mokestrel.wordpress.com», recalca. «Habrá quien piense que es mejor vivir la vida sin estar atado a un cuaderno o que soy un fanático o un friki, pero a mí me hace feliz», zanja. En cifras - El origen: El día que cumplía cuarenta años, hace diez, Villarroel hizo balance de su vida y se percató de que le faltaban datos. A partir de ahí, optó por apuntarlo todo para saber cómo gastaba su tiempo y aprovecharlo de la mejor manera posible. - 1,5 millones de fotos obtuvo en los tres años que llevó una minicámara en los botones de su camisa. Disparaba cada 30 segundos y al acabar el día tenía 1.200 instantáneas. No daba abasto a clasificarlas. Abandonó el proyecto al quebrar el fabricante. - ¿Qué es 'Quantified Self'? Comenzó siendo un pasatiempo, luego una moda y, finalmente, un hábito de muchos entusiastas de la tecnología. Cada vez son más las personas que cuantifican su vida recopilando información sobre sus hábitos cotidianos mediante el uso de herramientas, de las que se han catalogado más de 500. ¿Tienes una suscripción? Inicia sesión


--- [Morris Villarroel - Wikidata] ---
Morris Villarroel (Q41118030) Appearance Spanish researcher - Morris Villarroel Robinson | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Morris Villarroel | Spanish researcher | | Statements 20. century 0 references 1970 28 February 1970 1 reference In February 2010, Morris Villarroel started an ambitious 10-year experiment. The scientist, based at the Polytechnic University of Madrid, had just turned 40, and like many people after a milestone birthday, began to take stock of his life. (English) One man’s 10-year experiment to record every moment (British English) 21 June 2024 1 April 2001 1 March 2004 1 reference 12 January 2019 1 March 2004 1 reference 0000-0003-2542-3985.xml 16 July 2020 5 November 2021 1 reference 11 February 2019 Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(2 entries) - enwiki Morris Villarroel - eswiki Morris Villarroel
