=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List ofIgNobelPrizewinners - Wikipedia]
A parody of theNobelPrizes, theIgNobelPrizesare awarded each year in mid-September, around the time the recipients of the genuineNobelPrizesare announced, for ten achievements that "first make people laugh, and then make them think".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ig_Nobel_Prize_winners

[IgNobelPrize- Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]
TheIgNobelPrizeis a parody of theNobelPrize, which is awarded every autumn to celebrate ten unusual or trivial achievements in scientific research.Each year, theIgNobelPrizesare awarded across various categories, including physics, chemistry, medicine, literature, andpeace.
URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ig_Nobel_Prize

[AllNobelPeacePrizes-NobelPrize.org]
NobelPeacePrize2022. Ales Bialiatski, Memorial and Center for Civil Liberties. “ThePeacePrizelaureates represent civil society in their home countries. They have for many years promoted the right to criticise power and protect the fundamental rights of citizens.
URL: https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/lists/all-nobel-peace-prizes/

[IgNobelPrize2024 winners... | BBC Science Focus Magazine]
Whoare the 2024IgNobelPrizewinners?TheIgNobelPeacePrizewas awarded in memoriam to the late Prof BF Skinner for his experiments on live pigeons.
URL: https://www.sciencefocus.com/news/ig-nobel-prize-2024

[I. THEIGNOBELPRIZESMost of us have heard of the... - Brainly.in]
TheIGNobelpeaceprizewent to a team of seven people for measuring why and how often drivers curse while driving an automobile and what its effects are. ENGLISH TheIGNobels were created in1991by Marc Abrahms, editor and co-founder of the Annals of Improbable Reseach.
URL: https://brainly.in/question/59105333


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List ofIgNobelPrizewinners - Wikipedia] ---
A parody of the Nobel Prizes, the Ig Nobel Prizes are awarded each year in mid-September, around the time the recipients of the genuine Nobel Prizes are announced, for ten achievements that "first make people laugh, and then make them think". Commenting on the 2006 awards, Marc Abrahams, editor of Annals of Improbable Research and co-sponsor of the awards, said that "[t]he prizes are intended to celebrate the unusual, honor the imaginative, and spur people's interest in science, medicine, and technology". All prizes are awarded for real achievements, except for three in 1991 and one in 1994, due to an erroneous press release.




--- [IgNobelPrize- Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia] ---
The Ig Nobel Prize () is a satirical prize awarded annually since 1991 to promote public engagement with scientific research. Its aim is to "honor achievements that first make people laugh, and then make them think." The name of the award is a pun on the Nobel Prize, which it parodies, and on the word ignoble. Most awards are for genuine scientific achievements with an unorthodox, obvious or humorous slant, while other awards are given ironically to various fraudsters, politicians, media figures, or promoters of pseudoscience. 
Organized by the scientific humor magazine Annals of Improbable Research (AIR), the Ig Nobel Prizes are presented by Nobel laureates in a ceremony at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The winners also deliver public lectures. The Ig Nobel Prize monetary award is given in a solitary banknote for the amount of 10 trillion Zimbabwean dollars (US$0.40, but the banknote is worth more as a collector's item).


--- [AllNobelPeacePrizes-NobelPrize.org] ---
The Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded 106 times to 143 Nobel Prize laureates between 1901 and 2025, 112 individuals and 31 organisations. Since the International Committee of the Red Cross has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize three times (in 1917, 1944 and 1963), and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize two times (in 1954 and 1981), there are 28 individual organisations which have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Click on the links to get more information. Find all prizes in | physics | chemistry | physiology or medicine | literature | peace | economic sciences | all categories Nobel Peace Prize 2025 “for her tireless work promoting democratic rights for the people of Venezuela and for her struggle to achieve a just and peaceful transition from dictatorship to democracy” Nobel Peace Prize 2024 “for its efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons and for demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again” Nobel Peace Prize 2023 “for her fight against the oppression of women in Iran and her fight to promote human rights and freedom for all” Nobel Peace Prize 2022 “The Peace Prize laureates represent civil society in their home countries. They have for many years promoted the right to criticise power and protect the fundamental rights of citizens. They have made an outstanding effort to document war crimes, human right abuses and the abuse of power. Together they demonstrate the significance of civil society for peace and democracy” Nobel Peace Prize 2021 “for their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression, which is a precondition for democracy and lasting peace” Nobel Peace Prize 2020 “for its efforts to combat hunger, for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict”


--- [IgNobelPrize2024 winners... | BBC Science Focus Magazine] ---
The Nobel Prize is quite understandably considered the greatest accomplishment many can achieve. It has been granted to some of science’s greatest minds including Marie Curie, Alexander Fleming and Frederick Sanger. However, there is arguably one award that is more important. Marc Abrahams, editor of satirical magazine Annals of Improbable Research, set out to celebrate the Nobel Prize with his very own version of the award. Started in 1991, the Ig Nobel Prize also awards great minds of science… just the slightly less serious ones. Put simply, it’s a way to award the sillier side of science. Prizes have been gifted for research into why scientists like to lick rocks, evolutionary theories into why beards were developed to avoid being punched, and detailed plans into how to best transport a rhino. The 2024 awards have now been given out, highlighting some of the weirdest scientific findings happening right now. We’ve picked out our favourites. Who are the 2024 Ig Nobel Prize winners? Physiology Prize Won by a combination of Japanese and American researchers, the Physiology Ig Nobel Prize solved a crucial question: can mammals breathe out of their anuses? Turns out they can. Who would have thought? Peace Prize The Ig Nobel Peace Prize was awarded in memoriam to the late Prof BF Skinner for his experiments on live pigeons. In the paper titled 'Pigeons in a Pelican', he tested to see the feasibility of housing the birds inside missiles to guide the missile flight paths. “This is the history of a crackpot idea, born on the wrong side of the tracks intellectually speaking, but eventually vindicated in a sort of middle-class respectability”, said Skinner. Botany Prize Jacob White from the US and Felipe Yamashita in Germany won the Botany Prize this year. It was awarded for their paper revealing that the South American plant Boquila trifoliolata can mimic the leaves of plastic plants it is placed alongside. Medicine Prize Won by a combined effort from Swiss, Belgian and German researchers, the award was given for demonstrating that fake medicine that causes painful side-effects can be more effective in patients than fake medicine with no side effects. Physics Prize It's not all fun and games: Dr James Liao from the University of Florida won the Physics Award for his investigation into the swimming abilities of a dead trout. Probability Prize A mostly Dutch team of 50 researchers set out with a simple idea. They flipped 350,757 coins to test the theories of Persi Diaconis, a former magician and professor of statistics at Stanford University. Their research supported his theory, showing that coin tosses are more likely to land the same way up as they started, but only by a small margin. Chemistry Prize The Chemistry Award was given for a rather simple but bizarre study. A team from the Netherlands used chromatography to separate drunk and sober worms. Why..? It’s not entirely clear. Biology Prize A posthumous award was given to the late Fordyce Ely and William Peterson. In 1940, they investigated factors affecting the production of milk in dairy herds, writing their results in the Journal of Animal Science. They placed a cat on the back of a cow, repeatedly exploding paper bags next to it to see if the milk-flow changed. The cows that were scared ended up producing less milk. What are the Ig Nobel Prizes? The Ig Nobel Prize is an event that started back in 1991. While it focuses on the funnier side of science, the event is taken very seriously. Awards are given out by Nobel Prize winners and the event is hosted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). There are ten awards up for grabs each year ranging across a range of scientific disciplines. While there are plenty of winners each year, just one person, Prof Sir Andre Geim, who both worked out how to levitate frogs and was the first person to isolate graphene, has won both an IG Nobel Prize and an actual Nobel Prize. We'll let you work out which prize was for which breakthrough. Along with the prize itself, every winner is also gifted 100 trillion dollars. Unsurprisingly, this would be impossible with the American dollar, which is why the award is gifted in the Zimbabwean currency with an equivalent value of $0.40. Who won awards last year? - Chemistry and Geology: Jan Zalasiewicz for explaining why many scientists like to lick rocks. - Nutrition: Homei Miyashita and Hiromi Nakamura for experiments to determine how electrified chopsticks can change the taste of food. - Medicine: Christine Pham, Bobak Hedayati, for using cadavers to work out if there are an equal number of nose hairs in each nostril. - Mechanical Engineering: Te Faye Yap, Zhen Liu, Anoop Rajappan for re-animating dead spiders to use as mechanical gripping tools. - Public health: Seung-min Park for the Stanford Toilet, a device that uses a variety of tricks to analyse the substances that humans excrete. - Physics: Bieito Fernandez Castro, Marian Pena, Enrique Nogueria for measuring the extent to which ocean-water mixing is affected by the sexual activity of anchovy fish. - Education: Katy Tam, Cyanea Poon, Victoria Hui, Christy Wong, Vivian Kwong for carefully studying the boredom of teachers and students. - Psychology: Stanley Milgram, Leonard Bickman and Lawrence Berkowitz for experiments on a city street to see how many stop to look upward when they see strangers looking upward. Read more:


--- [I. THEIGNOBELPRIZESMost of us have heard of the... - Brainly.in] ---
Answer: 1. The Ig Nobel Prizes are sponsored by the Annals of Improbable Research, a magazine that focuses on scientific humor. They are awarded annually for research that makes people laugh and then think. Nobel laureates give out these awards. 2. The 2018 Ig Nobel Prize in Anthropology was awarded for collecting evidence, in a zoo, that chimpanzees imitate humans about chimpanzees. Tomas Persson, Gabriela-Alina Sauciuc, and Elainnie Madsen won the prize. 3. Josiah Carberry is a fictional professor created as a joke in 1929. He is said to teach at Brown University and is known for his work in psychoceramics, the supposed study of cracked pots. 4. Buckybonnet is an invention by the fictional recipient of the 1991 Ig Nobel prize in the area of Pedestrian Technology, Paul DeFanti. It is something that pedestrians wear to "protect their heads and preserve their composure." 5. The alternative word for "wordplay" in paragraph 1 is "pun." 6. The word in paragraph 1 that refers to official records of events year by year is "annals." 7. The word "parody" is best described as: b) spoof. 8. The statement that is not true is: c) The Ig Nobel Prize has only recognized real achievements so far. Answer: [1] The Ig Nobel Prizes are sponsored by the Annals of Improbable Research, a magazine focusing on scientific humor. They are awarded annually for research that makes people laugh and then think. [2] The 2018 Ig Nobel Prize in Anthropology was awarded for collecting evidence, in a zoo, that chimpanzees imitate humans. Tomas Persson, Gabriela-Alina Sauciuc, and Elainnie Madsen won the prize. [3] Josiah Carberry is a fictional professor created as a joke in 1929. He is said to still teach at Brown University and is known for his work in psychoceramics, the supposed study of cracked pots. [4] Buckybonnet is an invention attributed to the fictional character Paul DeFanti, who won the 1991 Ig Nobel Prize in the area of Pedestrian Technology. It is something that pedestrians wear to protect their heads and preserve their composure. [5] The alternative word for "wordplay" in paragraph 1 is "pun." [6] The word in paragraph 1 that refers to official records of events year by year is "annals." [7] The word "parody" is best described as b) spoof. [8] The statement that is not true is: c) The Ig Nobel Prize has only recognized real achievements so far. Explanation: PLZ MAKE ME BRAINLIEST AND FOLLOW ME ! New questions in English Write an essay of 250-300 words about helping others. Write briefly what you know about the Coorgi people. age group referred to–adolescents –neither children nor adults–problems on fitting in–loneliness–often misunderstood –deep longing for friendship, lov … e, sympathy –reactions on one's failure to find these– possible solutions to such problems– conclusion. anually, awards are given out for outstanding contribution to medical sciences. Change into active voice he was reading a book identify the tense
