=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Fantasmic! | Disney Wiki | Fandom]
Mickey appears again, accompanied by the show's theme song and When You ... Song of Mirage • DisneySea Symphony • BraviSEAmo! • Fantasmic! • StormRider ...
URL: https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Fantasmic!

[Compare files - datasets/SimpleQA]
In what city and state were the vocals of the main show and theme song for "BraviSEAmo!" recorded? ... What were the year and month the US Food and Drug ...
URL: https://www.oxen.ai/datasets/SimpleQA/compare/file/59b37c013206a4d1ee7d3964cef03c3f..27ec8c7ddecbf47c2baa1428256d6ebc/eval.parquet?view=base&page=2

[Fantasmic! | Mickey and Friends Wiki - Fandom]
Fantasmic! debuted at Tokyo DisneySea on April 28, 2011, replacing the BraviSEAmo! show in the Mediterranean Harbor. The show was originally planned to debut on ...
URL: https://mickey-and-friends.fandom.com/wiki/Fantasmic!

[BraviSEAmo! - Wikipedia]
The theme song "Swept Away" was composed by Greenaway, with lyrics by Donna Elaine Miller, and was sung by Miller and Rick Logan. The vocals of the main show and "Swept Away" were recorded and mixed at the O'Henry Sound Studios in Burbank, California by Vicari.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BraviSEAmo!

[Tokyo DisneySEA BraviSEAmo! Complete Swept Away Bonus Track ...]
Tokyo DisneySEA BraviSEAmo! Complete Swept Away Bonus Track Include CD ... City State, Vietnam, Wallis and Futuna, Western Samoa Show less. Handling time.
URL: https://www.ebay.com/itm/354925086155


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Fantasmic! | Disney Wiki | Fandom] ---
Fantasmic! is a long-running nighttime show at both Disneyland in California and Disney's Hollywood Studios in Florida, and formerly at Tokyo DisneySea. It is about the power of the imagination, showcased by Mickey experiencing a dream during a night in which he is asleep. It originated at Disneyland in 1992 after Disneyland's entertainment department was asked to create a nighttime spectacular involving water and fireworks to invigorate the space in front of the Rivers of America. Disneyland Entertainment employed the resources of Walt Disney Animation Studios and Walt Disney Imagineering as collaborators. Much of the area around the Rivers of America needed to be reworked, including terracing the walkways to accommodate viewing and modifying part of Tom Sawyer Island so that it could act as a stage for much of the show's live-action. The show temporarily closed at Disneyland in 2016 to make room for Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, but was brought back with completely new scenes on the park's 62nd birthday on July 17, 2017. On April 22, 2023, the animatronic dragon burst into flames during the finale. While no cast members or crew were hurt, the dragon and much of the show equipment in their pit were severely damaged. On May 24, 2024, the show reopened, with a reworked battle scene between Maleficent and Sorcerer Mickey, without the animatronic dragon. The original Peter Pan ship segment also returned, replacing the Pirates of the Caribbean sequence. In 1996, Walt Disney Entertainment in Florida partnered with Imagineering and Feature Animation to bring a new version of the show to Disney's Hollywood Studios (formerly the Disney-MGM Studios), featuring newly animated and live-action scenes. The Rivers of America at the Magic Kingdom was not conducive to a duplication of the layout at Disneyland, so a new purpose-built 10,000 seat amphitheater was built at Disney's Hollywood Studios. Intended to boost low attendance numbers at that park, the new Fantasmic! show was also seen as a needed replacement for Sorcery in the Sky, an aging nighttime fireworks show. On March 12, 2020, the show temporarily closed at Disney's Hollywood Studios and Disneyland due to the coronavirus pandemic. On August 17, the show's water feature was drained after Walt Disney World reopened during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in July 2020. However, following Disney Parks' reopening, Disneyland announced that the updated version of the show would return on May 28, 2022 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Disneyland version, while Walt Disney World announced that a newly revised and upgraded version of the show would return on November 3, 2022 at Disney's Hollywood Studios as part of Walt Disney World's 50th anniversary celebration. The third edition of Fantasmic! debuted on April 28, 2011 and ended on February 28, 2020 at Tokyo DisneySea in Japan. It featured a new theme song and, being set in the Mediterranean Harbor area of the park, was done on a series of barges, with a central "hat" tower instead of a stage on which Mickey and other characters could appear. Prior to the start of the show, guests would engage in doing the wave to get others excited and pumped up for the event. This is quite common at Disney's Hollywood Studios. As of 2022, some of the elements from the defunct Tokyo version are now shown in the revamped Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios version as well as the Imagination song used in the Disneyland's version post-show until 2023, when the original Bruce Healey's post-show song was returned. The show is located on the waters of the Rivers of America at Disneyland and on a stage across the waterway. A tavern and tall trees act as a backdrop for the show. To begin, lights around the Rivers of America fade and a female narrator introduces the story. Welcome to Fantasmic! Tonight, our friend and host Mickey Mouse uses his vivid imagination to create magical imagery for all to enjoy. Nothing is more wonderful than the imagination, for, in a moment, you can experience a beautiful fantasy or an exciting adventure. But beware, nothing is more powerful than the imagination, for it can also expand your greatest fears into an overwhelming nightmare. Are the powers of Mickey's imagination strong enough, and bright enough, to withstand the evil forces that invade Mickey's dreams? You are about to find out. For we now invite you to join Mickey, and experience Fantasmic!... a journey beyond your wildest imagination. The show follows a dream of Mickey Mouse that he has one night while fast asleep, which begins with him in a tuxedo discovering the water and light effects while he tests them out. He then proceeds to direct the effects like a conductor. Then he shoots pyrotechnics from his index fingertips just like in the "When You Wish Upon a Star" number in the Sing-Along Songs Disneyland Fun. The show's signature water projection screens are eventually activated, onto which animation from "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" sequence from Fantasia. Musical scores from "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" and the "Imagination" theme accompany the animation as Mickey conducts animated shooting stars pyrotechnics launched from the six pyrotechnic barges on the river. The animation then blends with live performers interpreting different flowers. The petals then become huge green leaves and combine with onscreen animation to become flora and fauna of the jungle. The projections then show Sorcerer Mickey walking into the "Circle of Life" scene from The Lion King, as Rafiki then goes and lifts a baby Simba into the air. The lighting and music change to a jungle beat, and Kaa from The Jungle Book makes his way across the island with hypnotic beams of light firing from his eyes. Accompanying this scene are three floating barges carrying King Louie and black-lit monkeys (from the Tokyo version) across the river, dancing along to the beat; with images of pink elephants playing the tune to "Hakuna Matata" as Timon, Pumbaa, and a growing-up Simba walk across a log like in the song, followed by more pink elephants. The music segues to a contemporary rendition of "Pink Elephants on Parade" from Dumbo, as more pink elephants appear onscreen and in the form of performers on the island. The elephants continue to dance until Mickey discovers a magical lamp. He rubs it, causing Genie to be freed via onscreen animation. He then shows Sorcerer Mickey his powers while singing "Friend Like Me". Some of the transformations include turning into Donald Duck and Goofy, as well as turning Mickey into Pinocchio complete with dancers that look like Minnie Mouse and Daisy Duck, as a tribute to the original Pinocchio sequence. Genie then disappears causing Sorcerer Mickey to go underwater. Sorcerer Mickey then finds the kingdom of Atlantica. As the guests see Ariel swimming around on the projections, it then transforms into the world of Finding Nemo, as Mr. Ray takes Nemo, Dory, and the rest of their classmates on a trip to see the stingray migration. Onscreen animation then shows Cleo, Pinocchio, and Jiminy Cricket underwater. An animated Monstro the Whale interacts with live splash effects on the river. The storyline progresses as Sorcerer Mickey notices his dream becoming darker as he has sucked down a whirlpool on a spellbook. After his eyes were shown wondering where he is, a ship lost in a stormy sea at night is shown. A concussion cannon is fired from Sailing Ship Columbia, which has been transformed into the Black Pearl, where Hector Barbossa, Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann, and the pirates participate in a stunt sequence as the ship makes its pass. Originally, this sequence was themed to Peter Pan, but it was transformed into a Pirates of the Caribbean scene following the 2017 refurbishment. However, the Peter Pan sequence has since returned. After that, Naveen, Tiana, Aurora, Prince Philip, Snow White, and the Prince dance on a projection as a transition to the princesses segment. The music turns darker, Mickey in his Sorcerer's Apprentice outfit encounters the Magic Mirror as he tells him "True magical power lies within the mirror, gaze deep into your own reflection and see powers better than you could even imagine." Mickey is skeptical at first, but he eventually decides to take a look. Mickey then gets trapped inside the mirror where he eventually encounters the Evil Queen who has been transformed into The Old Hag. The hag summons Dr. Facilier's Shadow Demons as the "forces of evil" to transform Mickey Mouse's dream into a "nightmare Fantasmic." Onscreen, we see her face dissolve into that of Ursula. Ursula sings a bit of "Poor Unfortunate Souls" and joins the plot against Mickey. Onscreen, the face of Ursula transforms into Chernabog. Animation from the "Night on Bald Mountain" sequence from Fantasia accompanies Mussorgsky's score. Luckily, Mickey eventually manages to escape the mirror. A pyrotechnic burst of flames heralds the arrival of Maleficent, beginning the climactic showdown sequence. Maleficent uses her magic scepter to attack Mickey by summoning bursts of pyro and a wall of flames, setting the river waters ablaze. (Originally, Maleficent appeared in her dragon form and breathed fire onto the river, but the dragon caught fire in 2023. Maleficent now remains on the ground level for the entire scene, walking around the stage). Sorcerer Mickey appears as he eventually uses his mind and sorcerer powers to destroy Maleficent. As she screams, the villains who have appeared are also destroyed onscreen (resulting in Chernabog vanishing away, destroying him. Ursula screams in agony as she is struck by bolts of lightning, destroying her too. The hag transforms back into the Evil Queen, causing her to also be destroyed and finally, Maleficent falls to her death causing her to be destroyed), and the sequence ends with a pyrotechnic burst from the river. Following an appearance by Tinker Bell, the Mark Twain Riverboat crosses the stage, piloted by a black and white Mickey Mouse, dressed in attire from Steamboat Willie. Approximately fifty Disney and Pixar characters dance on the ship in a ribbon routine. The sequence is accompanied by searchlights, fountains, and pyrotechnic effects. Mickey appears on top of the tavern (sometimes on the stage when the lift isn't working) as Sorcerer Mickey, and "conducts" laser beams, fireworks, and lighting effects that span the length of the river stage. In a flash, he disappears from atop the tavern, and re-appears center stage, resuming his tuxedo. Mickey says to the audience, "Some imagination, huh? Haha!" and with a laugh, he disappears in a flash. A final burst of pyrotechnics is accompanied by searchlights placed around the tavern and stage. As a finale, a flurry of sparkling pyrotechnics and a burst of green pyro ignites on the water where the river once again becomes quiet and dark. Disney's Hollywood Studios version The show follows a dream of Mickey Mouse that he has one night while fast asleep. As the lights fade, a female narrator gives a brief welcome and mentions of the powers of imagination. A very faint musical note is heard, swelling and growing into a dramatic chord in the complete darkness. Once the chord strikes, two tall columns rise on stage left and right, with roving spotlights, until finally, Mickey appears center stage. He conducts various water fountain effects, until bringing up the giant water-mist "screens", which, in conjunction with a few flares, fade into the famous "Sorcerer's Apprentice" scene from Fantasia. From there, the falling stars of the Sorcerer's Apprentice scene morph into flowers, and after a brief interlude, into a jungle scene. Elephants, giraffes, monkeys, birds, ostriches, rhinos, crocodiles, and cheetahs in black-lit fluorescent colors begin to herd in the mountain. The neon animals make noise and move around on the island while Rafiki and monkeys do a dance on floats traveling across the water, and Simba and Nala romp together on the water-mist screen. Next, a large bubble montage takes place, where scenes and characters from major classic animated Disney movies (The Lion King, The Jungle Book, Dumbo, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Alice in Wonderland, Hercules, Pinocchio, Aladdin, Mulan, Cinderella, Lady and the Tramp, Fantasia, The Princess and the Frog, Tangled, Bambi, Beauty and the Beast, The Little Mermaid and Frozen) appear in floating bubbles. An animated Monstro then appears onscreen, accompanied by a heavy musical score as he crashes through the waters. The chaotic sea morphs into Mickey lost in an overflowed room as he is whisked into a whirlpool. After Mickey wonders where he is, he makes a cry for help, and the scene shifts to a medley of Disney heroes and heroines. First is a scene from Pocahontas, with Pocahontas singing Just Around the Riverbend, then it transitions to scenes of Mulan, Tarzan, Encanto, The Princess and the Frog, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Hercules, Aladdin, Frozen II, and Moana. The music takes on an eerie tone as Mickey's dream takes a turn for the worse. The Queen appears and concocts a spell amidst pyrotechnics and other special effects, and turns herself into a hag. She invokes the help of Ursula, Cruella De Vil, Scar, Frollo, and Jafar. Jafar uses his magic to send Mickey to the Cave of Wonders. After escaping a wave of lava, Mickey encounters Jafar, who transforms himself into a giant black cobra to squeeze him and possibly drain him dry, appearing on both the stage and the mist screens. Seeing a magic lamp, Mickey rubs it, assuming it will help him. Unfortunately, Jafar is transformed into a genie and calls upon Hades, who laments on how "noble" Mickey's thoughts are before he calls Chernabog, who summons spirits from the dead. As Chernabog finishes, Mickey, now in his Brave Little Tailor outfit, comes face to face with Maleficent, who tells the mouse that he'll now deal with her and all the forces of her imagination. As her pinnacle rises, she transforms into a 40-foot-tall fire-breathing dragon that sets the waters ablaze as the villains laugh at Mickey and his imagination. Guests as far as halfway back in the theater can feel the heat from the fire. Mickey, finally deciding to stand up to the villains for his dream, manages to pulls a nearby sword out from its stone (similar to The Sword in the Stone) and creates a wall of water around the island, smothering the flames and defeating the dragon. He eliminates the villains from the dream world using the power of his imagination and his sword. The villains feel the wrath of the magical electricity from the sword, resulting in Chernabog attempting to shield himself from the light of the electricity as he vanishes away, Hades cringes in surprise from the effects as he too disappears, Jafar screams in agonizing pain decimating him as well, Frollo looks back in shock as he yells out "Witchcraft!" as he is overpowered, Scar snarls in a fury as he is overtaken, Cruella looks back in shock, yelling out "What is this?!" before also being vanquished, then Ursula is also taken down as she screams in agony while being struck by bolts of lightning, followed by the hag who transforms back into the Evil Queen causing her to also be annihilated, and finally Maleficent dies as the water splashes with a large firework bang. All is quiet until we see Tinker Bell fly to restore the mountain. Magical stars sparkle in the mountain as the Steamboat Willie riverboat approaches. Then a spark of pyrotechnics ignites from the riverboat, revealing Mickey, looking as he did in the original short, controlling the boat. As it glides past the audience, various Disney characters appear aboard the boat, usually waving streamers. A celebratory atmosphere prevails amid a flurry of fireworks. With another flash of pyrotechnics, Mickey disappears from Steamboat Willie riverboat and re-appears atop the highest point of the mountain in his Sorcerer outfit as fireworks, fire, and water light up the stage. As the finale concludes, Mickey disappears from the top of the mountain with another spark of pyrotechnics, a small explosion in the main stage and simultaneously reappears in his shiny tuxedo suit. A small applause from the crowd and Mickey says, "Some imagination, huh? Haha!" Pyrotechnics shoot out of the main stage and barges on the moat, he vanishes one last time to the final notes of the music while a cone of lights and searchlights bright up the stage for a few seconds. All turns dark once again and the show has concluded. Tokyo DisneySea version Like the other incarnations, the show follows a dream of Mickey Mouse that he has one night while fast asleep. The show begins with the tune of the Sorcerer's Apprentice as out of the stars, Sorcerer Mickey emerges on a tower of stars in a comet. The new theme song, Imagination plays as Mickey conducts the water and images of different characters appear on the tower. The music shifts into the instrumental Fantasmic theme and continues into Sorcerer's Apprentice as Mickey conducts the stars and sea and calls on the Magic Brooms. The waters rise and we enter the sea with Ariel singing "Part of Your World", with Crush and his sea turtles swimming in the background. The dancing fish from Fantasia's Nutcracker suite also appears as does Jiminy Cricket in his bubble, who pops it and fills the sky with bubbles. When Rafiki is about to hold up Simba though, Stitch appears instead (similar to one of the Inter-Stitch-al trailers of the film) and the music goes into an electric guitar version of Hawaiian Roller Coaster Ride with Stitch conducting the water while Angel pilots Stitch's red speeder shooting plasmablasts. Mickey appears again, accompanied by the show's theme song and When You Wish Upon a Star and sets the stage for an appearance by the Genie singing Friend Like Me as well as the scene of A Whole New World. As Aladdin and Jasmine fly off, the music segues into Cinderella and a sequence based on the Disney Princesses. After the Princess medley, Mickey encounters the Magic Mirror and asks "Who's the most powerful Sorcerer of all?" The Mirror tells him "True magical power lies within the mirror, gaze deep into your own reflection... Look closer... That's it, closer...". Mickey is then trapped inside, allowing the Witch and the villains to take control, each one appearing within the mirror. The Witch calls on the assistance of Ursula (singing "Poor Unfortunate Souls") and Chernabog (whose appearance is accompanied with a mix of Night on Bald Mountain and "Hellfire"). The witch laughs at the power of Imagination and the last villain emerges from the mirror: Maleficent who shows the power of her imagination by turning into her dragon form. Mickey defeats Maleficent (along with Chernabog, Ursula and the Witch who transforms back into the Evil Queen) with his magic wand and the power of his imagination. He falls back into his sleeping body and with a wave of Tinker Bell's wand, the show moves into the finale, with a reprise of the song and many of the good characters appearing on the barges, including regular Mickey. The barges stop and Sorcerer Mickey reappears on the tower, clad in a flowing white robe to conduct the final fireworks and fountains as the theme builds. Mickey then remarks "Imagination! Haha!" translated to Japanese "イマジネーション！ ハハ！" and disappears, with a few notes of the Sorcerer's Apprentice theme and the final fanfare. The tower takes on the appearance of the Sorcerer's Hat and the exit music plays. Featured Disney films Mickey Mouse & Friends/DuckTales (Launchpad McQuack was the only character from the series to appear in the finale) Jafar (featured in the Night on Bald Mountain segment) Hades (featured in the Night on Bald Mountain segment) Villains with an * aren't involved in the takeover. Characters appearing in the Finale Disneyland version Disneyland's version of the finale has included many different characters since its 1992 debut and has changed throughout the years, such as to replace older characters with newer ones. Walt Disney World's version of the finale currently includes Mickey, Minnie, Chip, Dale, Roger Rabbit, Goofy, Pluto, Donald, Pinocchio, Geppetto, Snow White, her Prince, Doc, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy, Sneezy, Bashful, Dopey, Aladdin, Jasmine, Genie, Moana, Belle, Beast, Ariel, Prince Eric, Tiana, Naveen, Rafiki, Stitch, Pocahontas, Meeko, Fa Mulan, Li Shang, Elsa, Baloo, and Mary Poppins. As in Disneyland, the character line-up has gone through changes since its debut. For example: Br'er Bear, John Smith, Hercules, Megara, Phil, Bert, and the Chimney Sweeps appeared on the boat regularly in the past. Barge 3: Pinocchio, Geppetto, Jiminy Cricket, Ariel, Prince Eric, Max the Sheepdog Barge 4: Donald, Daisy, Goofy, Aladdin, Jasmine, Abu For a while, however, only 3 barges were operational, holding the following characters: Barge 1: Mickey, Minnie, Pluto, Snow White, The Prince, Dopey Barge 2: Chip, Dale, Roger Rabbit, Clarice, Ariel, Prince Eric, Max the Sheepdog Barge 3: Donald, Daisy, Goofy, Aladdin, Jasmine, Abu Differences between the versions Although the shows in Disneyland, Disney's Hollywood Studios and Tokyo DisneySea are similar in many respects, there are some differences between the three versions. In the old Disneyland version of the finale, as soon as Mickey says "Some imagination, huh? Haha!", the cone of lights immediately turns on and fireworks from the barges surrounding the stage ignite. This caused the audience to view how Mickey "vanishes". Now, like the Disney World version, there is a spark of bright pyrotechnics as soon as the line is said. In the Tokyo DisneySea version, this illusion is created by pyrotechnics at Mickey's platform, followed by a quick release trap set within the platform. The choreography of the Opening Mickey and Sorcerer Mickey in both Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios are different in their own ways. At Tokyo DisneySea, this choreography is completely removed, as this show has a different opening. Whereas the show is performed on the Rivers of America at Disneyland, Magic Kingdom's Rivers of America was deemed insufficient for the show, Disney needed a new nighttime draw for Disney's Hollywood Studios. The Hollywood Hills Amphitheater built at Disney's Hollywood Studios was made specifically for Fantasmic! At Disney's Hollywood Studios, the show runs for almost 27 minutes (due to the montage of Disney clips inside bubbles, the additional villains, and the wall of water at the climax), compared to Disneyland's which is only 22 minutes. The Tokyo DisneySea version runs at approximately 23 minutes. The Jungle Scene with Kaa, King Louie, and the monkeys from The Jungle Book at Disneyland is replaced with a tribute to The Lion King at Disney's Hollywood Studios. However, King Louie and the monkeys do appear briefly in the bubble scene. Tokyo DisneySea uses characters from both films, as well as video from Tarzan to accent the "Circle of Life" scene from The Lion King. The 2017 and 2022 incarnation from Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios also now uses both films. The Peter Pan re-enactment from Disneyland was replaced with re-enactment from Pocahontas at Disney's Hollywood Studios at the request of Michael Eisner, who wanted more recent films in the show. However, Mr. Smee appeared in the WDW version of the finale from 1999 to 2002 and again in 2014. In 2017, a Pirates of the Caribbean segment replaced the Peter Pan segment at Disneyland. However, the Peter Pan segment returned in Spring 2024 (albeit without the Tick-Tock barge due to presumably being scrapped), replacing the Pirates of the Caribbean segment; it is rumored that Disney reverted to Peter Pan in an effort to distance itself from Johnny Depp following the Amber Heard trial. In 2022, the Pocahontas segment was replaced with a Heroes segment for the Hollywood Studios version of Fantasmic which utilizes scenes of Mulan, Tarzan, Encanto, The Princess and the Frog, The Hunchback of Norte Dame, Hercules, Aladdin, Frozen II and Moana. However, Pocahontas was still utilized within the beginning of the segment with Pocahontas singing "Just Around the Riverbend". The "Pink Elephants on Parade" clips and Pinocchio puppets are replaced with a montage of many clips from Disney features inside bubbles at Disney's Hollywood Studios. However, they do appear briefly in the bubble scene. Clips of the bubble montage are found in "The Little Mermaid" / "Finding Nemo" section, while clips of "Pink Elephants" are projected on the screens during the "Friend Like Me" segment from Disney's Aladdin found in the Tokyo DisneySea version. In 2017, the Rock version of "Pink Elephants" is replaced with a Dubstep remix version at Disneyland. The Aladdin segment with the Genie replaced the original Pinocchio segment for the 2017 version at Disneyland. Genie turning Mickey into Pinocchio complete with dancers that look like Minnie Mouse and Daisy Duck served as a tribute to the original Pinocchio sequence. Pinocchio still appears in the undersea segment as well as Jiminy. There was a little scene of Ariel, Cinderella, and Belle as belly dancers. Eventually, however, the segment was considered to be a little adult for young audiences, forcing the show to use different characters/effects from "Friend Like Me". Ursula's reprisal of "Poor Unfortunate Souls" is taken out at Disney's Hollywood Studios to introduce the other Disney villains. She plays a smaller role in the Florida show than in the California one. In Tokyo DisneySea's version, her role is identical to California's version, with the exception that the song is in Japanese. More villains are featured in the Florida version. Many of the additions are villains from Disney animated features released after the Disneyland version was first introduced. In California, Mickey destroys the villains by pointing a sword at the Dragon and saying, "You may think you're so powerful, well, this is my dream!" before light shoots from his sword toward the villains. But as of 2017, he appears in his sorcerer form and instead makes fireworks to defeat them. In Florida, he still says this, but before he destroys the villains, he causes a wall of water to block out the island and douse the flames; he then marches over to the sword in the stone and pulls it out. Instead of the Mark Twain riverboat, the characters in the Florida show dance on a smaller boat based on the Steamboat Willie boat. Tokyo DisneySea uses four barges refurbished from previous shows performed in the Mediterranean Harbor. In the California version, the giant snake that comes out on the stage is Kaa from The Jungle Book; in the Florida version, the snake is Jafar from Aladdin. Also, Jafar has a much bigger role in the show than any other villain except for Maleficent. Tokyo DisneySea uses a redesigned Kaa as a moving float during the "Circle of Life" segment. Having been updated, the California version's Maleficent dragon was considerably more advanced than its Florida counterpart and had a wider range of movement, but was destroyed in a fire in 2023. Tokyo's dragon consists only of the head and neck emerging from a mirror. It is unknown if it is a puppet or an animatronic. The final battle scene in California and Tokyo DisneySea's shows differ from their Florida counterpart. While the Florida version put Brave Little Tailor Mickey against the dragon Maleficent, Sorcerer Mickey is the one who battles Maleficent at Disneyland where he uses his magic controls and Tokyo DisneySea where he, instead of using a sword, shoots fireworks from a magic wand topped with a Hidden Mickey emblem. Unlike the US versions, Tokyo DisneySea's show does not open with the "Welcome to Fantasmic!..." phrase as part of the opening act; instead, it starts off with Dukas' Sorcerer's Apprentice. The narration is recited as part of the pre-show announcements in both Japanese and English, by two male voices, instead of a female voice. It doesn't open/close with Mickey in a tuxedo. Instead, it opens and closes with Sorcerer Mickey. The Finale music at Tokyo DisneySea is almost identical to the US versions except when the chorus sings the "Imagination" theme song instead of Bruce Healey's lyrics for the US versions. The choreography is different as well, with no dancing ribbons. The music of the Villain segment of the show is almost identical to Disneyland's version, with two notable exceptions: in the Chernabog scene, the music is instead a mixture of "Night on Bald Mountain" and "Hellfire"; and instead of the Evil Queen's transformation into the Old Hag, Mickey is the one who summons the Magic Mirror and the power of evil. The dialog in Tokyo DisneySea's version is in Japanese. When translated from Japanese to English, Mickey's dialog in Tokyo DisneySea's version is literally the same as the US versions (except when Mickey calls the Magic Mirror and the magic of romance). In the Florida and Tokyo versions, Bruce Healey's exit music can be heard after each performance. In 2017, Disneyland's version replaced Bruce Healey's exit music with the "Imagination" song from Tokyo's version, but the original exit music can still be heard in the entrance plaza in between the two theme parks. After the show's return in 2024, the "Imagination" song from Tokyo's version was removed and reverted back to the original Bruce Healey's exit music. Tokyo's Princess sequence does not include vocals, but a more orchestral soundtrack than its US counterparts. It also features Cinderella, Snow White, and Aurora. The US versions feature Belle and Beast, Ariel, and depending on which US version is seen, Snow White and her Prince, or Rapunzel and Flynn Rider. Tokyo's version features Ariel (as both human and mermaid), Beauty and the Beast, The Princess and the Frog (as animation), and Snow White (Theme and Finale). Cinderella is the only featured Princess who does not appear in all three versions. Belle and the Beast are featured as animation only; they do not appear in the finale. During Walt Disney World's years Mickey has had a total of 3 three different swords. The first one that was used from (1999-2003) was thin and long, the second one that was used from (2003-2011) was remodeled and was a bit bigger and pointier, and the current one is a lot larger and has more effects that include a red light beam effect that shoots toward the dragon. In early 2014, Disneyland received new World of Color fountains that move to Mickey's movements, but were shortly taken down due to problems. In 2017 the new fountains were replaced with improved versions which move more like their World of Color counterparts. In late 2011, Walt Disney World was given new firework effects in the finale which includes Mickey's new fireworks that appear behind him and new finale fireworks. Likewise, Disneyland got new firework blasts at the end of the show. During the 2011 refurbishment, the show returned to 7 shows a week and was given new dragon lighting effects. During the 15th anniversary, Walt Disney World was given new lights on the princess barges, like Disneyland's, as well as new low smoke effects and new fire effects in the dragon's mouth where it launches a fireball that hits the water, the lift at the top of the mountain was experiencing problems and now comes up slower than it normally does for the performers' safety. In 2010, Disneyland was given new lasers for the finale that move. In (1999-2002), Mickey disappeared with flash fireworks all around the stage and so from any angle, you could not see how he disappeared, but in 2002 Mickey was given a spark blast around his elevator to make it more magical for the audience. In the intro of the WDW version, almost anyone can see Mickey coming up the lift; Disneyland's lift is so fast when the lights hit Mickey he just came up. In 2017, the original female singer in Disneyland's Fantasmic! was replaced by Heather Headley who also provided vocals on other Disney nighttime shows like World of Color Winter Dreams, Season of Light and Disney Illuminations in Paris. The original female singer can still be heard in the Orlando version. Alternate Show A Taste Of Fantasmic! Due to the typical rainy weather in Florida, Disney Hollywood Studios will present a Taste of Fantasmic! which contains just the fountains and launches off the preloaded pyro, as it is too dangerous and impossible to unload it. This show is about five minutes and runs only once. After the main show's revamp in 2022, this show was seemingly discontinued. The Heartbeat of New Orleans — A Living Mural When Disneyland's version was under a major refurbishment following the aftermath of the fire, a smaller show was shown instead. This show is about a frog and his dreams of visiting New Orleans. Just like A Taste Of Fantasmic, this show is also five minutes, but unlike it, this show can be played several times per night. FastPass With the success of FastPass viewing for the World of Color show at Disney's California Adventure, Fantasmic! at Disneyland started to offer the service. On December 12, 2013, Outdoor Vending Carts converted to FastPass machines were placed along the Big Thunder Trail offering Blue, Yellow, and Green Section FastPass tickets. Only guests with FastPass tickets are allowed in the viewing areas. Limited stand by viewing is available in small sections around the viewing area. In addition to FastPasses guests may also purchase a Dining Package at Blue Bayou or Riverbelle Terrace for a reserved viewing section. Aladdin's Oasis also offers a To-Go dinner package but it only grants the purchaser access to the Blue Section. For a limited time, Hungry Bear restaurant also offered a reserved viewing section called the Dessert Party. In 2017, the FastPass for Fantasmic was redone with the distribution now occurring next to the Mark Twain/Columbia dock. The regular Fastpass tickets are now for just one section of the viewing area with the rest reserved for those with dining packages from Riverbelle Terrace, Blue Bayou or Hungry Bear Restaurant with Aladdin's Oasis no longer offering the Fantasmic On-the-Go package and the package itself moved to Hungry Bear. Maleficent Dragon Fire Around 10:54 P.M on April 22, 2023, everything was normal until there was a hydraulic leak coming from the Dragon after an ignition from the 1st blast from the Maleficent Dragon animatronic. She was acting normal until Mickey said "Well, this is my dream!". She then caught fire on the top her head and it quickly spread to her whole body. The show was stopped, and the Anaheim Fire Department was called to the scene, while the audience in the viewing area was quickly evacuated. All the cast members were safe, but a few were taken to the hospital for smoke inhalation. As the fire blazed, the Water Curtain tried covering the fire and everyone was evacuated. The day after, a scrim was placed around the remnants of the Dragon. A few weeks later, she was either dismantled or still underground, under the stage. There have been conflicting reports regarding what will ultimately happen with the dragon; one rumor states that Imagineering is planning to rebuild the dragon, as the endoskeleton survived relatively intact. Since the fire occurred during a period when Disney suffered a series of high-profile box office bombs, rebuilding the dragon is currently put on hold. However, with Disneyland's 70th Anniversary in 2025, Fantasmic’s 35th Anniversary in 2027, and the 2028 Los Angeles Olympic Summer Games of the 34th Olympiad just a few years away for when they return to the U.S., there may be plans to begin work on a proper replacement. Trivia From 1992 to 2016, cast members working traffic control at the Disneyland version wore shirts that were yellow with a black stripe. They quickly gained the affectionate nickname "Fantasmic Bumblebees". When the show returned in 2017, the shirts were replaced with a simpler blue design. Before the nighttime Rivers of America show project settled on what we now know as Fantasmic!, a show themed around The Haunted Mansion's 999 ghosts taking over the Rivers of America with the working title "The River Haunt" was proposed but ultimately deemed too expensive. The barges in the Jungle segment is also used for the Princess segment. On April 22, 2023, the Maleficent dragon at the Disneyland version of the show caught fire during the scene where Mickey vanquishes Maleficent in defeat, sending plumes of smoke and fire into the air. The Anaheim Fire Department was called to the scene and the audience viewing area was quickly evacuated. No injuries were reported. As of July 27, 2024, the reduced pyrotechnics in Tom Sawyer Island and the firework barges have been removed from Rivers of America, and Maleficent's scene no longer involves fire on the river. As of 2025, these missing pyrotechnic effects have been reinstated. Ever since the updated dragon animatronic's debut at Disneyland in 2009, fans had given it the affectionate nickname "Murphy", named after Murphy's Law due to a history of technical problems and things going wrong with the animatronic. Sometimes, Murphy's fire breathing effect wouldn't work. Other times, it would fail to rise from below the stage. These malfunctions contributed to Murphy's debut being pushed back from Summer 2009 to September 2009. One incident in August 2010 involved one of Murphy's supports snapping and causing Murphy to fall forward, preventing it from lowering back into the stage. Murphy's final malfunction would be the now-infamous fire incident in 2023 that took the dragon animatronic's life. A replacement for Murphy has yet to be announced. Gallery Original 1998 Walt Disney World poster Updated version of Disneyland's Fantasmic! Poster, including Pirates of the Caribbean, Tangled, and The Lion King Updated version of Disney's Hollywood Studios' Fantasmic! Poster, including Moana, Aladdin, and Frozen


--- [Compare files - datasets/SimpleQA] ---
Home Repositories Models Docs Blog Pricing Login Sign up Repositories Models Blog Community Pricing Search Docs LOG IN SIGN UP datasets / SimpleQA Data Branches Evaluations Fine-tune eval.parquet comparing changes between versions 59b37c013206a4d1ee7d3964cef03c3f 27ec8c7ddecbf47c2baa1428256d6ebc Base Diff Head Schema 3 columns, 101-200 of 326 rows Row details Copyright © 2026 Oxen Labs, Inc., All Rights Reserved Careers Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions


--- [Fantasmic! | Mickey and Friends Wiki - Fandom] ---
Fantasmic! is a nighttime show at Disneyland Park at the Disneyland Resort, Disney's Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World Resort, and previously at Tokyo DisneySea at Tokyo Disney Resort. It features fireworks, characters, live actors, water effects, pyrotechnics, lasers, music, audio-animatronics, searchlights, decorated boat floats, and mist screen projections. The narrative of Fantasmic! is a voyage through Mickey Mouse's imagination that culminates in a battle against the Disney Villains. Fantasmic! originated at Disneyland in 1992 after Walt Disney Creative Entertainment was asked to create a nighttime spectacular involving water and fireworks to reinvigorate the space in front of the Rivers of America. The area was reworked, including terracing the walkways to accommodate viewing and modifying part of Tom Sawyer Island to allow the show's staged live action segments. The producers employed the resources of Walt Disney Feature Animation and Walt Disney Imagineering. A second version featuring new scenes opened at Disney's Hollywood Studios in 1998, and a third version premiered at Tokyo DisneySea in 2011, replacing BraviSEAmo!. An updated version of Disneyland's Fantasmic! debuted in 2017, featuring a re-recorded soundtrack in addition to new scenes, lighting, choreography and costumes. Disneyland version[] Synopsis[] Fantasmic! takes place on the waters of the Rivers of America at Disneyland and on a stage across the waterway on Tom Sawyer Island. The show begins with Mickey Mouse being transported into his dream. He dances and orchestrates various water fountain, pyrotechnic, projection, laser and lighting effects to the show's theme. Mist screens rise from the water, acting as projection surfaces for various scenes from Disney movies. The show then transitions into a jungle scene from The Jungle Book, featuring a 100-foot-long (30 m) puppet of Kaa and three floating barges carrying King Louie and black-lit monkeys (that debuted in the Tokyo version) across the river stage. The song transitions into "Hakuna Matata". The music then segues into a dubstep rendition of "Pink Elephants on Parade" from Dumbo, as animated pink elephants appear onscreen and in the form of performers on the island. The scene then transitions to "Friend Like Me" from Aladdin. Sorcerer Mickey watches the Genie perform tricks. Then they go under the sea as they head into the world of The Little Mermaid and Finding Nemo. A bubble floats by and Jiminy Cricket appears onscreen, searching underwater for Pinocchio. An animated Monstro appears suddenly, accompanied by a heavy musical score as he crashes through water. The sea morphs into the "Sorcerer's Apprentice" flood scene. As Mickey looks around in the dark and asks "What's going on?", a ship caught in a storm appears. Captain Barbossa then appears on the mist screens. A cannon is fired from Sailing Ship Columbia, portraying the Black Pearl from the Pirates of the Caribbean films. Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann, and other pirates participate in a stunt sequence. The scene ends with fountains that look like explosions and a cannon fired from the Sailing Ship Columbia (In earlier incarnations, the Columbia served as Captain Hook's pirate ship). As the scene concludes, Mickey paints the moon, with silhouettes of Peter Pan and the Darlings flying over it. Mickey's sorcerer hat is painted on the mist screen and the hat turns to clouds as Aladdin and Jasmine are on a physical magic carpet flying through the clouds while a rendition of "A Whole New World" plays. Then the carpet fades away and three small barges arrive carrying Belle and the Beast, Ariel and Prince Eric, and Rapunzel and Flynn Rider, with the accompanying signature melody from each film—"Beauty and the Beast," "Part of Your World," and "I See the Light". Mickey's dream takes a turn for the worse. The magic mirror appears onscreen and tempts Mickey to enter the darker realms of his imagination. When asked if he has the courage, Mickey accepts the challenge, and the mirror traps Mickey inside. The Evil Queen, disguised as the old hag, calls all the villains to partake in Mickey's nightmare, invoking a riled Ursula who joins the Queen's plot to destroy Mickey. Ursula calls upon Chernabog, who summons deceased spirits. He then summons Maleficent, who threatens Sorcerer Mickey as she transforms herself into an enormous dragon. Onstage, the 45-foot dragon sets the waters ablaze, breathing fire onto the river. Mickey defeats the dragon, destroying the villains in the process. Tinker Bell then appears, the Mark Twain Riverboat approaches with fireworks, and black and white Mickey from Steamboat Willie appears. Mickey then appears again to conduct a final set of fireworks and water fountains before leaving in a bright blast of fireworks. Disney's Hollywood Studios version[] Synopsis[] The Florida version of the show takes place at the Hollywood Hills Amphitheater, with a rocky mountain and a façade of trees serving as the setting. The narrative of the Walt Disney World version is fairly similar to that of Disneyland's original version, with the show's introduction and conclusion nearly identical. However, there are notable differences throughout the rest of the show. - The Fantasia sequence at the beginning of the show transitions into a scene from only The Lion King. - The Dumbo, Little Mermaid, Finding Nemo, and Pinocchio sequences are replaced with a bubble montage of Disney animated films presented on the mist screens that includes The Lion King, The Jungle Book, Dumbo, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Alice in Wonderland, Hercules, Pinocchio, Aladdin, Mulan, Moana, Cinderella, Lady and the Tramp, Lilo & Stitch, Fantasia, Tangled, The Princess and the Frog, Bambi, Beauty and the Beast, The Little Mermaid, & Frozen. - The onstage battle scene from Pocahontas appears in place of the Peter Pan/Pirates part. In this scene, Governor Ratcliffe and his fellow Englishmen fight against the Native Americans, followed by John Smith. As John Smith climbs to the very top of the mountain, a Native American warrior moves to strike Smith when Pocahontas appears. "Colors of the Wind" plays out the scene on the screens. - The climax features more villains than in the previous incarnation. In addition to the Evil Queen, Ursula, Chernabog, and Maleficent, Cruella de Vil from One Hundred and One Dalmatians, Scar from The Lion King, and Frollo from The Hunchback of Notre Dame also appear. - The battle between Mickey and the villains, as well as their subsequent defeat, is longer in the Florida version. - Snow White and her prince still appear in the princess segment, performing "Someday My Prince Will Come". - Mickey still appears in his Brave Little Tailor attire and uses the sword to defeat the dragon. - Instead of the Mark Twain Riverboat, the characters appear on board the Steamboat Willie during the finale. Hollywood Hills Amphitheater[] The Hollywood Hills Amphitheater is a purpose-built seat riverside amphitheatre at the Disney's Hollywood Studios theme park in the Walt Disney World Resort, Florida, that showcases the nighttime spectacular Fantasmic! It is located off of Sunset Boulevard, between The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror and the Beauty and the Beast stage show. The Fantasmic! stage in Florida is significantly larger than Disneyland's, featuring a man-made, 50-foot-tall (15 m) mountain on which Sorcerer Mickey stands and from which the dragon emerges. The amphitheater has 6,900 seats, with room for an additional 3,000 people standing. The moat around the island itself can hold 1,900,000 U.S. gallons (7,200,000 L) of water. On September 15, 2015, it was announced that Pop Secret would become the official sponsor of Fantasmic! at Disney's Hollywood Studios. Prior to this, Fantasmic! was the only nighttime fireworks show at Walt Disney World without a sponsor, with Wishes gaining sponsorship from Pandora Jewelry in 2014, while IllumiNations: Reflections of Earth was sponsored by General Electric from 1999 to 2003 and sponsored by Siemens since 2005. On March 12, 2020, this version of Fantasmic! was temporarily closed, due to COVID-19 pandemic in United States. On August 17, 2020, since Walt Disney World reopened in July 2020, during the ongoing on COVID-19 pandemic, the Fantasmic! lagoon has been drained Alternate show: "Taste Of Fantasmic!"[] The Florida version has a four-minute-long substitute show that plays when inclement weather prohibits the presentation of the regular show. The alternative show does not showcase any of the performers, floats, or puppets due to the dangerous conditions that are posed to the performers because of the possibility of rain accumulating on the stage. Instead the ancillary show is a brief summation of the conventional show; including a fountain display synchronized to "Little April Showers", a sequence integrating the "Night on Bald Mountain" music, and a finale orchestrated with all of the usual pyrotechnics and musical fanfare from the original show's conclusion. Tokyo DisneySea version[] Fantasmic! debuted at Tokyo DisneySea on April 28, 2011, replacing the BraviSEAmo! show in the Mediterranean Harbor. The show was originally planned to debut on April 23 with the park's 10th Anniversary "Be Magical!" celebration, but was delayed by the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011. Originally, Fantasmic! was planned in 2001 for the park and the story would be themed around Tokyo DisneySea but was scrapped and instead DisneySea Symphony debuted. Many of the barges were reused from Tokyo DisneySea's former nighttime Christmas show “Candelight Reflections�? but were reimagined. The Christmas tree barge was used for Mickey's sorcerer hat. This barge would also be used for Tokyo DisneySea's former nighttime Christmas show “Colors of Christmas�? (2012-2019). The natural gas line in the harbor and 5 water cannons originally used for BraviSEAmo! were also repurposed. The show's score was recorded by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra at Abbey Road Studios, composed by Don L. Harper, featuring Bruce Healey's theme from the original Fantasmic! at the US parks. The DisneySea version has new scenes and narrative elements, including scenes based on Aladdin, Finding Nemo, and Cinderella, and the original new song "Imagination". This is the only version of Fantasmic! to not have a stationary stage, with the show taking place entirely on barges. All of the characters' dialogue and sung parts were recorded in Japanese by the characters' respective Japanese voice artists. This version of Fantasmic! closed on February 28, 2020. It was originally scheduled to conclude its run on March 25, 2020, but was moved up due to the extended closure of Tokyo Disney Resort in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan. On July 20, 2020 the Oriental Land Company announced that Fantasmic! would be replaced by an all-new nighttime spectacular in honor of Tokyo DisneySea's 20th anniversary celebration, called Believe! Sea of Dreams. This brand new show is set to debut on April 1, 2021. In late September, the Fantasmic! barges were spotted backstage from the monorail being dismantled, so that the barge bases could be reused for Believe! Sea of Dreams. Soundtrack[] The soundtrack for the Disneyland show was included in the 2015 release of Walt Disney Records The Legacy Collection: Disneyland. Voice cast[] Disneyland - Bret Iwan – Mickey Mouse (2017 version) / Wayne Allwine – Mickey Mouse (1992 version) - Heather Headley – Female Vocalist (Princess Medley) - Chris Mann – Male Vocalist (Princess Medley) - Robin Williams – Genie (archive recordings) - Jared Butler – Jack Sparrow (voice over) - Geoffrey Rush – Hector Barbossa (archive footage) - Eddie Carroll – Jiminy Cricket - Corey Burton – Magic Mirror (2017 version), Chernabog, Captain Hook (1992 version) - Louise Chamis – Evil Queen/Old Hag - Pat Carroll – Ursula - Linda Gary – Maleficent - Bonnie Hunt - Opening Announcer - Tony Jay – Magic Mirror (1992 version) Disney's Hollywood Studios - Wayne Allwine – Mickey Mouse - Suzanne Waters - Female Vocalist (Princess Medley) - Fletcher Sheridan - Male Vocalist (Princess Medley) - Louise Chamis – Evil Queen/Old Hag - Tony Jay – Magic Mirror, Judge Claude Frollo - Eddie Carroll – Jiminy Cricket - Corey Burton – Chernabog - Linda Gary – Maleficent - Isla Fisher - Opening Announcer - Pat Carroll – Ursula - Susan Blakeslee – Cruella de Vil - Jonathan Freeman – Jafar - Jim Cummings – Scar - Linda Hunt – Grandmother Willow - David Ogden Stiers – Governor Ratcliffe - James Woods – Hades Japanese version (Tokyo DisneySea): - Takashi Aoyagi – Mickey Mouse - Kyoko Satomi – Evil Queen/Old Hag - Tamio Ōki – Magic Mirror - Toshiko Sawada – Maleficent - Kumiko Mori – Ursula - Koichi Yamadera – Genie, Stitch


--- [BraviSEAmo! - Wikipedia] ---
BraviSEAmo! (ブラヴィッシーモ! Buravisshiimo!) was a nighttime water show at Tokyo DisneySea. The show featured water, pyrotechnic, and firework effects and was performed on the lagoon of the Mediterranean Harbor. The show was directed by Yves Pépin from ECA2 and used little dialogue, instead featuring an orchestral score by Gavin Greenaway. BraviSEAmo! replaced Tokyo DisneySea's earlier nighttime show DisneySea Symphony, and was replaced by a new version of Fantasmic! in 2011. The show ran from July 17, 2004 to November 13, 2010 and was sponsored by NTT DoCoMo throughout its run.


--- [Tokyo DisneySEA BraviSEAmo! Complete Swept Away Bonus Track ...] ---
Picture 1 of 9 Gallery Picture 1 of 9 Tokyo DisneySEA BraviSEAmo! Complete Swept Away Bonus Track Include CD US $199.99or Best Offer Condition: 2 available Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Shipping: Does not ship to India. Located in: Saitamaken, Japan Delivery: Varies Returns: 30 days returns. Buyer pays for return shipping. If you use an eBay shipping label, it will be deducted from your refund amount. Payments: Shop with confidence About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number:354925086155 Item specifics - Condition - Country of Origin - Japan - Artist - Various - Type - Album - Format - CD - Record Label - AVEX Entertainment - Release Year - 2007 - Release Title - Tokyo DisneySEA BraviSEAmo! Complete - Genre - Soundtrack - UPC - 4988064125227 Item description from the seller Popular categories from this store Seller feedback (118) - f***4 (36)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseItem as described. Fast shipping. A+ seller.Japanese Pokemon Card Snorunt 063/062 AR SV3a Raging Surf Scarlet & Violet NM (#355055757351) - c***a (149)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseVery fast shipping and item as described, thanks so much!Mewtwo Delta 019/086 1st Edition Holo Research Tower 2005 Japanese Pokemon Card (#354975081547) - e***f (176)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseArrived swiftly! Card in great conditionJasmine's Jolteon 030/141 Vs-Series 1st Edition 2001 Rare Japanese Pokemon Card (#355105832806) - h***h (174)- Feedback left by buyer.More than a year agoVerified purchaseItems came as described, I look forward to buying from them again!Japanese Pokemon Card Erika's Victreebel Gym Heroes No.071 Old Back vintage USED (#356261237687) - 4***j (42)- Feedback left by buyer.More than a year agoVerified purchaseCame packaged well as describedJapanese Pokemon Card Giratina VSTAR UR 261/172 S12a VSTAR Universe 2022 (#355481607410) - r***w (995)- Feedback left by buyer.More than a year agoVerified purchaseVery Happy with purchase.. great communication, extra fast shipping time, excellent packaging .. I will purchase from this seller again!Disney Sketchbook Nightmare Before Christmas Jack Skellington 30th Ornament (#355087635270) - 6***_ (428)- Feedback left by buyer.More than a year agoVerified purchaseI love this card! It came super super quick and was packaged nicely and came in perfect, as described condition, as always! Never disappointed shopping here! Thanks so much again! Ill be back soon!Japanese Pokemon Card Mew No.151 Non-Holo LV.25/HP50 Old Back Vintage USED (#354876695712) - w***d (144)- Feedback left by buyer.More than a year agoVerified purchaseMy item quality was outstanding ! Better than expected. Packaging was top notch coming from Japan. One of the best sellers I’ve ever purchased from. Communication throughout showed great concern for buyer satisfaction and business ethics are outstanding ! Will buy from again.Mewtwo & Mew GX RR 052/173 SM12a Holo TAG TEAM Japanese Pokemon Card NM (#355147916744)
