=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Lewis Named 2018 Commencement Speaker - News | The Harvard Crimson]
Mar 1, 2018 · Congressman and civil rights leader John R. Lewis will come to campus to speak at Harvard’s 367th commencement ceremony, the University announced Wednesday. Lewis will address graduates during ...
URL: https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2018/3/1/john-lewis-commencement-speaker/

[Undergraduate Speaker Christopher Egi | Harvard Commencement 2018]
Undergraduate Speaker Christopher Egi addresses graduates at Harvard's 367th Commencement on May 24, 2018 at Tercentenary Theatre.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNpirGVI8ao

[2018 Commencement Speech - Harvard University President]
May 24, 2018 — There can be no finer example of how to live a life than that of John Lewis, whose courage, dedication, selflessness, and moral clarity have for ...
URL: https://www.harvard.edu/president/speeches-faust/2018/2018-commencement-speech/

[John Lewis named Harvard Commencement speaker]
Feb 28, 2018 · As the principal speaker at the Afternoon Program on Commencement Day, Lewis will address the annual meeting of the Harvard Alumni Association, held in Harvard Yard’s Tercentenary Theatre between Widener Library and the Memorial Church. For a full schedule of Commencement Week events, visit the Commencement Office website.
URL: https://test.news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2018/02/john-lewis-named-harvard-commencement-speaker/

[Harvard Commencement 2018]
Apr 6, 2018 · Class of 2018 Family Reception, at 5. Tickets required. Science Center plaza. Harvard Extension School Annual Commencement Banquet, at 6. Tickets required. Annenberg Hall. Wednesday, May 23 ROTC Commissioning Ceremony, at 10:30, with President Faust and a guest speaker. Tercentenary Theatre. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Convocation at 11, with Mary Robinson, LL.M. ’68, LL.D ...
URL: https://www.harvardmagazine.com/2018/04/harvard-commencement-2018


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Lewis Named 2018 Commencement Speaker - News | The Harvard Crimson] ---
News Jeffrey Epstein, Gerald Chan Coordinated on Proposed Tsinghua University Campus in Boston News Harvard Faculty Cut A Grades by Nearly 7 Percentage Points in Fall News Seven Harvard Affiliates Named 2027 Schwarzman Scholars News Public Health Faculty Slam Harvard’s Removal of FXB Center Director Mary Bassett News A Double-Edged Sword? Double Concentrations Create Both Pressure and Opportunity for Harvard Students Congressman and civil rights leader John R. Lewis will come to campus to speak at Harvard’s 367th commencement ceremony, the University announced Wednesday. Lewis will address graduates during the Afternoon Program of commencement, which will take place in Tercentenary Theatre on May 24. Lewis, a decorated icon of civil rights in the United States, has represented Georgia’s 5th congressional district for over 30 years. He was one of the “Big Six” leaders who organized the March on Washington in 1963 and he helped lead the 1965 march across Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala. Lewis was awarded an honorary doctorate of law degree from Harvard in 2012. University President Drew G. Faust said in an interview with the Harvard Gazette that Lewis is an inspiration to the world and praised him for his service. “For more than 50 years, John Lewis has dedicated himself to the ideals of equality and decency, standing up for what is right, even when it meant putting himself in harm’s way,” Faust said. A native of Alabama, Lewis joined the Civil Rights Movement at a young age and continued to fight for equality across numerous demonstrations, at times persevering despite physical injuries like a fractured skull. He became involved in politics as a member of the Atlanta City Council in 1981 and earned election to Congress as a representative for Atlanta, remaining a member ever since. Lewis is currently senior chief deputy whip for the Democratic Party in the House as well as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. He holds more than 50 honorary degrees from universities like Princeton and Columbia. He is also the recipient of numerous awards including the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award for Lifetime Achievement, the only such distinction ever granted by the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. History professor Lisa M. McGirr, who teaches U.S. in the World 41: “Power and Protest: The United States in the World of the 1960s,” wrote in an emailed statement that she thinks Lewis is a “terrific” choice of speaker. She pointed to his actions in the civil rights movement and called him an “inspiration” for Harvard graduates. “He is an excellent and timely choice at a moment when a new generation of young people are beginning to raise their voices to demand an end to gun violence and continued racial injustice,” McGirr wrote. Lewis’s office did not respond immediately for comment Wednesday night. —Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at [email protected]. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22. Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter. Have a tip for The Crimson? Share it confidentially.


--- [Undergraduate Speaker Christopher Egi | Harvard Commencement 2018] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [2018 Commencement Speech - Harvard University President] ---
As delivered. Thank you, Susan, for those generous words, and thanks to everyone for that generous welcome. Heartfelt congratulations to you, our graduates, and to your families for the hard work and many accomplishments that have brought you to this day. I am especially grateful to John Lewis for sharing his inspiring words and presence with us. There can be no finer example of how to live a life than that of John Lewis, whose courage, dedication, selflessness, and moral clarity have for more than a half-century challenged this country to realize its promise of liberty and justice for all. It is an inexpressible honor and privilege to stand on this stage beside him. Almost eleven years ago I stood on this platform to deliver my inaugural address as Harvard’s twenty-eighth president. Today’s remarks represent something of a bookend — a kind of valedictory — valedictory, literally, farewell words. When I spoke in 2007, I observed that inaugural speeches are “by definition pronouncements by individuals who don’t yet know what they are talking about.” By now I can no longer invoke that excuse. I am close to knowing all I ever will about being Harvard’s president. But I then went on to say something else about the peculiar genre of inaugural addresses: that we might dub them, as I put it then, “expressions of hope unchastened by the rod of experience.” By now I should know that rod. In my mind I hear Jimi Hendrix of my youth asking: “Are you experienced?” I would have to answer affirmatively. Perhaps not as experienced as Charles William Eliot, who made it through forty years as Harvard president. But eleven years is a long time. Think about it: The iPhone and I were launched within forty-eight hours of each other in the summer of 2007. All of us are now so attached to our devices that it seems almost unimaginable that they were not always there. The smartphone initiated a revolution in how we communicate, how we interact, how we organize our lives. And we are only beginning to understand the impact of this digital transformation on our disrupted society, economy, politics — even on our brains. Two thousand and eight brought the financial crisis and the loss of close to a third of our endowment — prompting us in the ensuing years to overturn a system of governance that had been in place here at Harvard since 1650, and to transform our financial — and ultimately our investment — processes and policies. Five years ago, we lived through the Marathon bombings and the arrival of terror in our very midst — and we came together as Boston Strong. We have experienced wild weather, from hurricanes to Snowmageddon to Bombogenesis, and we’ve doubled down on our commitment to combat climate change. We have confronted a cheating crisis, an email crisis, a primate crisis, and sexual assault and sexual harassment crises — and we’ve made significant and lasting changes in response to each. We have faced down H1N1, Ebola, Zika, and even the mumps. We have been challenged — as well as often inspired and enlightened — by renewed and passionate student activism: Occupy; Black Lives Matter; Divest Harvard; I, Too, Am Harvard; Undocumented at Harvard; and #MeToo. We have faced a political and policy environment increasingly hostile to expertise and skeptical about higher education: The unprecedented endowment tax passed last December will, we estimate, impose on us a levy next year equivalent to $2,000 per student. There has indeed been a good measure of chastening. But today I want to focus not on that “rod of experience,” but on what I then defined as the essence of an inaugural message: the expression of hope. Now, as then, that is what fills both my mind and my heart as I think about Harvard, about its present and its future. These past eleven years have only strengthened my faith in higher education and its possibilities. Hope, I have learned, derives not just from the innocence of inexperience, but from the everyday realities, the day-to-day work of leading and loving this University. At a time of growing distrust of institutions and constant attacks on colleges and universities, I want to affirm my belief that they are beacons of hope — I think our best hope — for the future to which we aspire. In their very essence, universities are about hope and about the future, and that is at the heart of what we celebrate today. Hope is the foundation of learning. The 6,989 graduates we honor today arrived here with aspirations about what education could make possible, with dreams about how their lives would be changed because of the time they would spend here. Dean Rakesh Khurana of the College regularly speaks to students about the transformations — intellectual, social, personal — they should seek from their undergraduate experience — he urges them to articulate their hopes and define a path toward realizing them. And we do have such very high aspirations for them: that they find lives of meaning and purpose, that they discover a passion that animates them, that they strive toward veritas, that they use their education to do good in the world. Never has the world needed these graduates more, and I think they understand that. I had lunch with a dozen or so seniors about a month ago, and I asked them to characterize their four years here. They spoke of the ways they had changed and grown, but, more pointedly, they spoke of how the world seemed to have changed around them. They worried about the health and sustainability of the Earth; they worried about the health of our democracy and of civil society. And they described how their attitudes and plans had altered because of these changed circumstances. They no longer took their world for granted; the future of our society, our country, our planet could not be guaranteed; it was up to them. Their careers and life goals had shifted to embrace a much broader sense of responsibility extending beyond themselves to encompass an obligation to a common good that they had come to recognize might not survive without them. I thought of these students as something akin to alchemists — confronting dark realities and forging a golden path that offered hope — to themselves about their own lives, but to all of us as we imagine what these extraordinary graduates will do with and for the damaged world we offer them as their inheritance. It would be impossible to be surrounded by these students as they move through their time at Harvard without being filled with hope about the future they will create. To paraphrase the Ed School’s campaign slogan, they are here learning to change the world. Building a more enlightened world is, of course, the fundamental work of the faculty as well, and at the core of Harvard’s identity as a research university. The fundamental question we ask as we consider appointing a professor is, “What has this person done to alter and enhance our understanding of the world?” Perhaps they have revealed how the microbiome works, or how international trade agreements affect economic prosperity, or how undocumented students confront educational challenges. Perhaps they’ve unlocked ways to identify the actual location of genes that cause schizophrenia, or perhaps they have discovered how to engineer an exosuit to enable a person to walk. Harvard scholars explore history and literature to help us understand tyranny; art to illuminate the foundations of justice; law and technology to address fundamental assaults on assumptions about privacy. With its eye cast on creating a different future, all of this work is founded in hope — of seeing something more clearly, of influencing others to change their understanding and perhaps even their actions. We are by definition a community of idealists, thinking beyond the present and the status quo to imagine how and when things could be different, could be otherwise. The privilege of interacting with Harvard’s remarkable students and faculty, and the dedicated staff who support their work, has uplifted me every day for the past eleven years. It would be next to impossible not to believe in the future they are so intent to build. But there is another way that Harvard fills me with hope, and that is the way that we as a community — living and working together within these walls — are endeavoring ourselves to grapple with the challenging forces dividing and threatening the world — forces like climate change, or the divisiveness that poisons our society and polity, or the undermining of facts and rational discourse, or the chilling of free speech. We might in some ways see the work we have undertaken together on sustainability as emblematic of these wider efforts. We have come to consider ourselves a living laboratory. Our research and engagement on environmental issues of course stretches well beyond our walls: Our faculty, for example, have played critical roles in forging international climate agreements, have engineered innovative ways to create and store renewable energy, have influenced regulatory frameworks from Washington to Beijing, have explored the searing impact of climate change on health. But at the same time we have endeavored to make our own community a model for what might be possible — what we might hope for as we imagine the future. We have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent, our trash by 44 percent; we produce 1.5 megawatts of solar energy — enough to fuel 300 homes. We have programs experimenting with healthy building materials, green cleaning, and food waste, and we have constructed HouseZero, an energy-neutral structure that is essentially an enormous computer generating data about every aspect of its operation and design, making information available to others as they build for the future. We seek to be a living experiment in other ways as well. We gather here in Cambridge, face-to-face in a residential educational setting because we regard this very community as an educational machine. I have often observed that Harvard is likely the most diverse environment in which most of our students have ever lived. We endeavor to attract talented individuals from the widest possible range of backgrounds, experiences, and interests, from the broadest diversity of geographic origins, socio-economic circumstances, ethnicities, races, religions, gender identities, sexual orientations, political perspectives. And we ask students to learn from these differences, to teach one another — and to teach us as well — with the variety of who they are and what they bring. This isn’t easy. It requires individuals to question long-held assumptions, to open their minds and their hearts to ideas and arguments that may seem not just unfamiliar, but even disturbing and disorienting. And it is an experiment that becomes ever more difficult in an increasingly polarized social and political environment in which expressions of hatred, bigotry, and divisiveness seem not just permitted but encouraged. But in spite of these challenges all around us, we at Harvard strive to be enriched, not divided, by our differences. To sustain this vision of an educational community, we must be a living laboratory in another sense as well. We must be a place where facts matter, where reasoned and respectful discourse and debate serve as arbiters of truth. There has been much recent criticism of universities for not being sufficiently open to differing viewpoints. Protecting and nourishing free speech is for us a fundamental commitment, and one that demands constant attention and vigilance, especially in a time of sharp political and social polarization. The uncontrolled — and uncontrollable — cacophony that defines a university means that sometimes inevitably we will fall short; we cannot always guarantee that every member of this community listens generously to every other. But that must motivate us to redouble our efforts. Silencing ideas or basking in comfortable intellectual orthodoxy independent of facts and evidence blocks our access to new and better ideas. We must be dedicated to the belief that truth cannot be simply asserted or claimed, but must be established with evidence and tested with argument. Truth serves as inspiration and aspiration in all we do; it pulls us toward the future and its possibilities for seeing more clearly, understanding more fully, and improving ourselves and the world. Its pursuit is fueled by hope. Hope joins with truth as the as the very essence of a university. And so I come back to hope — the hope implicit in our efforts to model a different way for humans to live and work together, the hope in the ideas and discoveries that are the currency we trade in, the hope in the bright futures of those who graduate today. Yet as I step down from my responsibilities as Harvard president, I am keenly aware of another of hope’s fundamental attributes. It implies work still unfinished, aspirations not yet matched by achievement, possibilities yet to be seized and realized. Hope is a challenge. I think of the words the beloved late crew coach Harry Parker once spoke to a rower — words I quoted often during the campaign: “This,” he said to the rower, “this is what you can be. Do you want to be that?” These are the words and the message I would like to leave with Harvard. The work is unfinished. The job remains still to be done in times that make it perhaps more difficult than ever. May we continue to challenge ourselves with the hope of all we can be and with the unwavering determination to be that. May Harvard be: As wise as it is smart As restless as it is proud As bold as it is thoughtful As new as it is old As good as it is great.


--- [John Lewis named Harvard Commencement speaker] ---
Lewis named Harvard Commencement speaker Prominent Civil Rights leader and congressman will address Afternoon Program Congressman John Lewis, a Civil Rights leader who has represented Georgia’s 5th District for more than 30 years, will be the principal speaker at the Afternoon Program of Harvard’s 367th Commencement on May 24. “For more than 50 years, John Lewis has dedicated himself to the ideals of equality and decency, standing up for what is right, even when it meant putting himself in harm’s way,” Harvard President Drew Faust said. “His public service legacy is unparalleled, and he is an inspiration to me and to countless other people across the United States and around the world. “As president of Harvard, I have been fortunate to welcome Rep. Lewis to campus on several occasions, most memorably in 2012 when he was awarded an honorary degree and in 2016 when he joined me in dedicating a plaque on Wadsworth House in honor of four enslaved persons who lived there in the 1700s. I look forward to hearing his message at Commencement.” Lewis, who was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree from Harvard in 2012, was born to Alabama sharecroppers in 1940 and raised in the Jim Crow South. As a teenager, inspired by the activism of the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the radio, he decided to join the Civil Rights Movement. As a student at Fisk University, he organized sit-in demonstrations at segregated lunch counters in Nashville, Tenn. In 1961 he joined the Freedom Riders, protesting segregation by occupying bus seats reserved for whites in the South. The buses were routinely attacked by armed, angry mobs, and that summer Lewis was arrested and beaten — the first of many arrests, beatings, imprisonments, and severe injuries that he sustained during the Civil Rights era. “John Lewis has dedicated his life to making the United States a more just and equitable society. I am sure that his courage, his compassion, and his commitment to service will inspire Harvard alumni and students alike.” Susan Morris Novick ’85, Harvard Alumni Association president By 1963, Lewis was chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and one of the “Big Six” leaders who organized the historic March on Washington; he was the event’s youngest keynote speaker and is the only one still living. During Freedom Summer in 1964, he took part in voter registration drives in Mississippi. In March 1965, Lewis and fellow Civil Rights activist Hosea Williams led more than 600 marchers across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., where they were caught in a violent maelstrom of tear gas, lunging police dogs, club-wielding onlookers, and punishing fire hoses turned on full blast. Lewis was left with a fractured skull, and the event, broadcast nationwide, hastened the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In 1977, President Jimmy Carter’s White House called on Lewis to direct ACTION, a federal volunteer agency. In 1981, he entered political life as a member of the Atlanta City Council, and five years later was elected to Congress, representing Atlanta and outlying areas. He is senior chief deputy whip for the Democratic Party in the House, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, a member of its Subcommittee on Income Security and Family Support, and ranking member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. A graduate of both Fisk University and the American Baptist Theological Seminary, Lewis holds more than 50 honorary degrees from universities including Columbia, Duke, Howard, and Princeton. Lewis, who as a boy was denied a library card because of his race, is the author of several books. His trilogy “MARCH,” a graphic novel memoir written with Andrew Aydin and illustrated by Nate Powell, was a best-seller and won the National Book Award. The “MARCH” trilogy has been adopted into the core curricula of school systems across the country to teach the Civil Rights Movement, and has been selected as a first-year reading text at a variety of colleges and universities. Lewis is the recipient of numerous awards, including the Lincoln Medal, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and the only John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award for Lifetime Achievement ever granted by the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. Last year, the Center for Public Leadership at the Harvard Kennedy School honored Lewis with the Gleitsman Citizen Activist Award for his 60-year career of advancing human rights. “John Lewis has dedicated his life to making the United States a more just and equitable society,” said Susan Morris Novick ’85, president of the Harvard Alumni Association. “I am sure that his courage, his compassion, and his commitment to service will inspire Harvard alumni and students alike.” As the principal speaker at the Afternoon Program on Commencement Day, Lewis will address the annual meeting of the Harvard Alumni Association, held in Harvard Yard’s Tercentenary Theatre between Widener Library and the Memorial Church. For a full schedule of Commencement Week events, visit the Commencement Office website.


--- [Harvard Commencement 2018] ---
COMMENCEMENT WEEK includes addresses by President Drew Gilpin Faust and Congressman John Lewis, LL.D. ’12. For details and updates on event speakers, visit harvardmagazine.com/commencement. * * * Tuesday, May 22 Phi Beta Kappa Exercises, at 11, with poet Kevin Young ’92, director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at the New York Public Library and poetry editor at The New Yorker, and orator Neil Shubin, Ph.D. ’87, a paleontologist who is Bensley professor of organismal biology and anatomy at the University of Chicago and author of Your Inner Fish. Sanders Theatre. Baccalaureate Service for the Class of 2018, at 2, Memorial Church, followed by class photo, Widener steps. Class of 2018 Family Reception, at 5. Tickets required. Science Center plaza. Harvard Extension School Annual Commencement Banquet, at 6. Tickets required. Annenberg Hall. Wednesday, May 23 ROTC Commissioning Ceremony, at 10:30, with President Faust and a guest speaker. Tercentenary Theatre. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Convocation at 11, with Mary Robinson, LL.M. ’68, LL.D. ’98, former president of the Republic of Ireland and United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. HMS Quad. Senior Class Day Picnic, at noon. Tickets required. The Old Yard. Senior Class Day Exercises, at 2, with the Harvard and Ivy Orations, remarks by incoming Harvard Alumni Association president Margaret Wang ’09, and an address by novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, the guest speaker. Tickets required. Tercentenary Theatre. Harvard Kennedy School Commencement Address, at 2, by Ohio governor John R. Kasich. JFK Memorial Park. Law School Class Day, 2:30, with Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona as guest speaker. Holmes Field. Business School Class Day Ceremony, 2:30, with guest speaker Carla Harris ’84, M.B.A. ’87, managing director, investment management at Morgan Stanley. Baker Lawn. Harvard Graduate School of Education Convocation, 3:30-5, featuring an address by John Silvanus Wilson Jr., M.T.S. ’81, Ed. M. ’82, Ed.D. ’85. The former president of Morehouse College and member of the Harvard Board of Overseers was recently named senior advisor and strategist to the president of Harvard University. Radcliffe Yard. Graduate School of Design Class Day, at 4, with Paola Antonelli, author, editor, and senior curator of the department of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art. Piper Auditorium, Gund Hall. Divinity School Multireligious Commencement Service for the Class of 2018 at 4. Memorial Church. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dudley House Faculty Dean’s Reception, 4-6. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Award Presentation and Celebration, 4-7. Kresge Courtyard. Faculty Deans’ Receptions for seniors and guests, at 5. The Undergraduate Houses. Harvard University Band, Harvard Glee Club, and Radcliffe Choral Society Concert, at 8. Tercentenary Theatre. Thursday, May 24 Commencement Day. Gates open at 6:45. Academic Procession, 8:50. The Old Yard. The 367th Commencement Exercises, 9:45 (concluding at 11:45). Tickets required. Tercentenary Theatre. All Alumni Spread, 11:30. Tickets required. The Old Yard. The Tree Spread, for the College classes through 1967, 11:30. Tickets required. Holden Quadrangle. Graduate Schools Diploma Ceremonies, from 11:30 (time varies by school). GSAS Luncheon and Reception, 12 to 3. Tickets required. Behind Perkins Hall. College Diploma Presentation Ceremonies and Luncheons, at noon. The Undergraduate Houses. Alumni Procession, 1:45. The Old Yard. The Annual Meeting of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA): The Commencement Afternoon Program, 2:30, includes remarks by HAA president Susan Morris Novick ’85, President Faust, and Commencement speaker John Lewis; Overseer and HAA director election results; and Harvard Medal presentations. Tercentenary Theatre. Medical and Dental Schools Class Day Ceremony. Ticketed luncheon at noon, followed by a speech, at 2, by Neal Baer, Ed.M. ’79, A.M. ’82, M.D. ’96, pediatrician, television producer and writer, and HMS lecturer on global health and medicine. HMS Quad. Friday, May 25 Radcliffe Day opens with a morning panel discussion, “Toward a New Global Architecture? America’s Role in a Changing World,” moderated by Nicholas Burns, Goodman Family professor of the practice of diplomacy and international relations. The panelists are foreign-policy experts Michèle Flournoy ’83, a former undersecretary of defense; Washington Post columnist David Ignatius ’72; Kirkpatrick professor of the practice of international affairs Meghan O’Sullivan; and political scientist Anne-Marie Slaughter, J.D. ’85, who served in the State Department under Hillary Clinton. During the luncheon that follows (12:30-2), former Secretary of State Clinton is to receive the 2018 Radcliffe Medal. Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright (the 2001 Radcliffe Medalist) will deliver a personal tribute to Clinton, and a three-way conversation with Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey ’92 will follow. Tickets are required, and the events will be webcast live at radcliffe.harvard.edu. For updates on Commencement week and related activities, visit alumni.harvard.edu/annualmeeting or commencement.harvard.edu/morning-exercises.
