=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[[Solved] Who coined the slogan 'Quit India'? - Testbook.com]
The correct answer is Yusuf Meher Ali. Key Points The iconic 'Quit India' slogan was coined by socialist Congress leader and lesser-known hero of the Indian National movement Yusuf Meher Ali in 1942. He was the founder of National Militia, Bombay youth League, and the Congress Socialist Party. In 1928, he came up with the catchphrase "Simon Go Back" in protest against the all-British Simon ...
URL: https://testbook.com/question-answer/who-coined-the-slogan-quit-india--5f61b63ac7d9edc41d79f735

[Quit India Movement | History, Gandhi, Congress Party, & Indian ...]
On July 14, 1942, the Congress Party passed its “Quit India” resolution calling for an immediate end to British rule in India and authorizing Gandhi to lead a mass nonviolent protest movement if independence was not granted. The slogan “Quit India” was coined by mayor of Bombay (now Mumbai) Yusuf Meherally.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/event/Quit-India-Movement

[Quit India speech - Wikipedia]
The Quit India speech was given by Mahatma Gandhi on the eve of the Quit India Movement, 8 August 1942. His address was issued shortly before midnight, at the Gowalia Tank Maidan park in Bombay (present-day Mumbai), [1] which has since been renamed August Kranti Maidan (August Revolution Ground).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quit_India_speech

[How Quit India movement gave a new direction to India's freedom ...]
The slogan ‘Quit India’ While Gandhi gave the clarion call of Quit India, the slogan was coined by Yusuf Meherally, a socialist and trade unionist who also served as Mayor of Mumbai. A few years ago, in 1928, it was Meherally who had coined the slogan “Simon Go Back”.
URL: https://www.mkgandhi.org/newannou/quit-India-1942.php

[Quit India Movement]
The Quit India Movement was a political campaign launched at the Bombay session of the All India Congress Committee by Mahatma Gandhi on 8 August 1942, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quit_India_Movement


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [[Solved] Who coined the slogan 'Quit India'? - Testbook.com] ---
Question Download Solution PDFWho coined the slogan 'Quit India'? This question was previously asked in MPPSC General Studies 2018 Official Paper Answer (Detailed Solution Below) Option 3 : Yusuf Meher Ali Free Tests View all Free tests > MPPSC Forest Services Mains Paper-I Mock Test 11 K Users 50 Questions 150 Marks 60 Mins Detailed Solution Download Solution PDFThe correct answer is Yusuf Meher Ali. Key Points - The iconic 'Quit India' slogan was coined by socialist Congress leader and lesser-known hero of the Indian National movement Yusuf Meher Ali in 1942. - He was the founder of National Militia, Bombay youth League, and the Congress Socialist Party. - In 1928, he came up with the catchphrase "Simon Go Back" in protest against the all-British Simon Commission Appointed by the imperial government to recommend improvements to British governance in India, - He was a participant of the underground movement and was in forefront of the Quit India Movement. - Meherally was responsible for mobilizing his socialist colleagues- including Rammanohar Lohia, Aruna Asaf Ali, and Achyut Patwardhan, and ensuring they took the quit India Movement forward while hiding underground after the arrest of the Congress leaders. Additional Information - Famous Slogans By India Freedom fighters in India:- | Name | Famous Quotes and Slogans | | 1 Mahatma Gandhi | | | 2. Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru | | | 3. Lala Lajpat Rai | | | 4.Subhash Chandra Bose | | Last updated on Jan 28, 2026 -> The MPPSC Last Date to apply online for State Services 2026 is 9th February 2026. -> The MPPSC 2026 Notification was released for 155 vacancies. -> The MPPSC Prelims 2026 will be held on 26th April 2026. -> The MPPSC Mains Exam Date 2025 will be announced soon. Also, check MPPSC Exam Calendar 2026. -> The MPPSC selection process includes Prelims Mains & Interview. -> Candidates must attempt the MPPSC Mock tests to evaluate their performance. -> MPPSC State Services previous papers should be downloaded as they serve as a great source of preparation.


--- [Quit India Movement | History, Gandhi, Congress Party, & Indian ...] ---
Quit India Movement - What was the Quit India Movement? - When and why did the Quit India Movement begin? - Who started the Quit India Movement and what was its main goal? - How did the British government respond to the Quit India Movement? - What role did ordinary people play in the Quit India Movement? - How did the Quit India Movement impact India's struggle for independence? Quit India Movement, mass protest movement during 1942–43 against the colonial British raj’s political and military control of India. The movement, which took place against the backdrop of World War II, was initially planned by Mahatma Gandhi and his followers in the Indian National Congress (Congress Party) as a nonviolent action. However, attempts by the British authorities to prevent the protests by arresting the Congress leaders backfired and triggered an escalation of violence that, by the end of the turmoil, resulted in the deaths of at least 1,000 Indians, as well as the arrests of roughly 60,000 by the end of 1943. Though the movement was unsuccessful in its goal of forcing the immediate decolonization of India, it served as an important demonstration of anti-colonial sentiment in Indian society directed toward the British raj. Moreover, the desire of British authorities to avoid a repetition of the chaos caused by the Quit India Movement lent urgency to the decolonization of India in the postwar period. Historical background The Quit India Movement was not the first mass protest movement in India against British colonialism. The Indian Mutiny of 1857–59 saw Indian soldiers turn on their British army leaders, and the fighting resulted in the replacement of British East Indian Company control with direct colonial rule under the British crown beginning in 1858. Additionally, nonviolent protests for independence led by Gandhi included the noncooperation movement of 1920–22 and other acts of nonviolent civil disobedience such as the Salt March in 1930. The Quit India Movement was Gandhi’s last attempt at a satyagraha campaign against British colonial rule prior to India’s independence in 1947. The Quit India Movement was instigated by Britain’s unilateral declaration of war on the Axis powers in 1939. In conjunction with that declaration, on September 3, 1939, Viceroy of India Linlithgow (1936–43) proclaimed that India was also at war with Germany, thereby drawing the Indian population into the conflict. With the declaration of war, Britain reinstated the Defense of India Act (1915) and essentially declared martial law in the colony. The involvement of India in the war outraged many Indian political leaders, who, despite a range of opinions on the just nature of the war, thought it was morally wrong for the British to force their subjects into the fighting (by the war’s end 2.5 million Indians had served in the British armed forces, though the majority were volunteers) without consulting Indian leadership and to use Indian resources for the effort. As the war continued and Japanese armies swept through Britain’s Southeast Asian colonies—Singapore, Malaya (now Malaysia), and Burma (now Myanmar)—a faction of the Congress Party began to call for India to gain immediate independence from Britain in order to avoid a Japanese invasion. This faction was led by Gandhi, who was concerned that British presence in India would invite Japanese aggression. He argued that India should be allowed to make its own peace treaty with Japan and that, in the event of an invasion by Japan, Indians should resist only through nonviolent means rather than be forced by the British into military conflict. Wanting to prevent unrest during the war, the British government sent Sir Stafford Cripps to India in March 1942 to suggest a compromise known as the “Cripps Offer,” under which Indian politicians would cooperate with the colonial government for the duration of the war and then be given dominion status—alongside Canada, Australia, and other former British colonies—and increased autonomy afterward. The offer included an “opt-out” clause allowing certain provinces to choose not to be a part of a united India—a provision that was received positively by Mohammed Ali Jinnah, whose Muslim League desired the creation of a separate Muslim-majority nation to be called Pakistan, but was viewed negatively by Gandhi and Congress, who vehemently opposed any potential partition of India. The offer was swiftly rejected by most leaders of the Indian independence movement, and Gandhi irately called the offer “a post-dated cheque on a bank that was failing.” The perception that Britain did not take their demands seriously hardened the position of some Congress politicians and strengthened calls to engage in action toward independence. In the shadow of the growing military presence of British and American troops in India, and with the increasing food shortages in India due to the war effort, Indians continued to suffer. Japanese forces moved into the Bay of Bengal, attacked British ships, and bombed the east coast ports of Visakhapatnam and Kakinada, thus making the threat of full-scale war on Indian soil seem imminent. Gandhi became more adamant about the departure of the British colonists and less concerned about internal squabbles among Indian leadership. He notably demanded of the British in his magazine Harijan on May 24, 1942: “Leave India to God. If that is too much leave her to anarchy.” Preparations for protest On July 14, 1942, the Congress Party passed its “Quit India” resolution calling for an immediate end to British rule in India and authorizing Gandhi to lead a mass nonviolent protest movement if independence was not granted. The slogan “Quit India” was coined by mayor of Bombay (now Mumbai) Yusuf Meherally. When the British government failed to meet its demands, the Congress Party met in Bombay and voted on August 8 for the initiation of the Quit India Movement. During that meeting, Gandhi delivered his “Do or Die” speech, in which he famously declared: “The mantra is ‘Do or Die.’ We shall either free India or die in the attempt; we shall not live to see the perpetuation of our slavery.” Despite earlier disagreements within the party, only a small number of delegates at the meeting opposed implementing the Quit India resolution. Others within the independence movement outside of Congress opposed the decision to engage in a widespread mass protest, notably B.R. Ambedkar and Mohammed Ali Jinnah. They viewed the Quit India resolution as a hasty power play by Gandhi to achieve Indian independence and keep the Congress Party in charge. From their perspective, independence on these terms would leave India without sufficient safeguards in place for the protection of the Dalits, Ambedkar’s constituency, and the Muslims, for whom Jinnah’s Muslim League advocated. The morning after the Quit India resolution was agreed upon in Bombay, British authorities invoked the Defense of India Act, which permitted detention without a trial, to arrest Gandhi and dozens of other leaders of the Congress Party, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Abdul Kalam Azad, and Vallabhbhai Patel. Concern for Gandhi’s age and fear of worldwide condemnation convinced the British not to jail Gandhi, and instead they confined him in the Aga Khan’s summer palace in Pune along with his wife, Kasturba, his secretary, and some followers. The British authorities erroneously hoped they could stifle the movement by imprisoning its leaders. Meetings of Congress Party committees were forbidden, and strict press censorship prevented news of both the Quit India Movement’s approval by the Congress Party on August 8 and the arrests of August 9 from being reported in the press. Protests and reprisals The British authorities were, however, misguided. With the leaders of the Congress Party in jail, younger, more militant forces turned the movement in a more incendiary direction. News of the arrests leaked out in Bombay by the end of the day, and protests—both violent and nonviolent—quickly spread throughout the north of the country, particularly within the Bombay Presidency (later Maharashtra state), Bihar, and the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh (now in Uttar Pradesh state). Underground presses and radio stations launched across the country, spreading word of the mass demonstration. Nonviolent actions included marches, strikes (many of which hit war industries), and even the creation of Indian-led local government bodies. The British government, particularly Secretary of State Leopold Amery in a radio address, further fanned the flames by justifying the arrests of the Congress leaders as a means of preventing mass violence. Amery’s description of the movement’s disruptive tactics might have inadvertently given voice and legitimacy to those very actions among more militant protesters. Also partly due to the lack of Congress leaders emphasizing nonviolence, many demonstrations turned into attacks on the British themselves and parts of the British raj’s infrastructure. Telegraph lines and railroads were destroyed, and hundreds of railway stations, post offices, and police stations were burned down or damaged. The British response to these protests was often brutal. The military, already present in India in larger than usual numbers for the war effort, was deployed to disperse rioters, and in a few cases airplanes were instructed to fire their machine guns on the crowds from the air. Parts of the United Provinces, Bihar, the North-West Frontier, and Bengal (now West Bengal state and Bangladesh) were bombed and strafed by pilots as the British raj resolved to crush all Indian resistance as swiftly as possible. Thousands of people were killed or wounded, and roughly 60,000 arrests were made in the first few months. Most of those arrested, along with the leaders of the Congress Party, were imprisoned for the duration of World War II to prevent further protests, although Gandhi was released on May 6, 1944, because of his failing health. Conclusion and repercussions Since the Quit India Movement grew organically in a variety of locations and, in some places, turned into local guerrilla warfare that lasted long after its initial upsurge and suppression, it did not have a precise ending. Protests continued to spring up for months, but had largely died down by the end of 1942. By March 1943 the Quit India Movement was definitively over. While the movement failed to achieve its stated aim of gaining India’s immediate independence from British rule, most historians argue it should not be viewed as a complete failure. The Quit India Movement demonstrated the willingness of ordinary Indians to take action to advance their independence and proved to the British government the necessity of decolonization after World War II. Global, and especially American, sentiment after the war favored Indian independence, and the British rulers thought it would be impossible, both logistically and in the court of public opinion, to quell further uprisings if they occurred during peacetime. - Also called: - August Movement, August Kranti, or Bharat Chhodo Andolan - Date: - 1942 - Key People: - Aruna Asaf Ali - Baba Amte Another key outcome of the Quit India Movement was the strengthening of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the Muslim League, and their efforts to create a Muslim-majority nation of Pakistan on the Indian subcontinent after British decolonization. While Congress Party leaders were in jail and membership was effectively frozen during the war, the Muslim League grew from about 100,000 members in 1941 to over 2,000,000 in 1944. With Congress inactive and their party members unable to run for local political offices, the Muslim League also took control in provinces such as Bengal and the North-West Frontier Province, which later became part of Bangladesh and Pakistan, respectively. Furthermore, by maintaining loyalty to the British and cooperating with them during wartime, Jinnah earned additional goodwill and support from the colonial authorities for the creation of a separate Muslim state. Thus, some historians consider the 1947 partition of India to have been, in part, a consequence of the Quit India Movement.


--- [Quit India speech - Wikipedia] ---
The Quit India speech was given by Mahatma Gandhi on the eve of the Quit India Movement, 8 August 1942. His address was issued shortly before midnight, at the Gowalia Tank Maidan park in Bombay (present-day Mumbai), which has since been renamed August Kranti Maidan (August Revolution Ground).
The speech was given in support of the Indian independence movement, which worked towards the end of British colonial rule. He called for determined, but passive resistance and civil disobedience based on the principles of satyagraha ("truthful request"), that signified the certitude that Gandhi foresaw for the movement, best described by his call to "Do or Die".
However, the movement did not end on a high note, since in less than twenty-four hours after giving his speech, Gandhi and almost the entire Indian National Congress leadership were imprisoned by the British colonial government under the grounds of the Defense of India Act. A greater number of Congress leaders would spend the rest of the war in jail. The Quit India speech is commonly referred to as the unifying call to action, in pursuit of Indian independence during WWII-wartime India.


--- [How Quit India movement gave a new direction to India's freedom ...] ---
How Quit India movement gave a new direction to India’s freedom struggle | | On August 8, 81 years ago, Mahatma Gandhi gave the call for British colonisers to “Quit India” and for the Indians to “do or die” to make this happen. Soon after, Gandhi and almost the entire top Congress leadership was arrested, and thus began a truly people-led movement in our freedom struggle, eventually quelled violently by the British, but leaving behind a clear message – the British would have to leave India, and no other solution would be acceptable to its masses. What led to the events of August 1942While factors leading to such a movement had been building up, matters came to a head with the failure of the Cripps Mission. The World War II was raging, and a beleaguered British needed the cooperation of their colonial subjects in India. To this end, in March 1942, a mission led by Sir Stafford Cripps arrived in India to meet leaders of the Congress and the Muslim League. The idea was to secure India’s whole-hearted support in the war, in return for self-governance. However, despite the promise of “the earliest possible realisation of self-government in India”, the offer Cripps made was of dominion status, and not freedom. Also, there was a provision of the partition of India, which was not acceptable to the Congress. The failure of the Cripps Mission made Mahatma Gandhi realise that freedom would be had only by fighting tooth and nail for it. Though initially reluctant to launch a movement that could hamper Britain’s efforts to defeat Fascist forces in the World War, the Congress eventually decided to launch a mass civil disobedience. At the Working Committee meeting in Wardha in July 1942, it was decided the time had come for the movement to move into an active phase. The Gowalia Tank address by GandhiOn August 8, Bapu addressed the people from Mumbai’s Gowalia Tank maidan. “Here is a mantra, a short one, that I give you. Imprint it on your hearts, so that in every breath you give expression to it. The mantra is: ‘Do or Die’. We shall either free India or die trying; we shall not live to see the perpetuation of our slavery,” Gandhi said. Aruna Asaf Ali hoisted the Tricolour on the ground, and the Quit India movement had been officially announced. By August 9, Gandhi and all other senior Congress leaders had been jailed. Bapu was kept at the Aga Khan Palace in Pune, and later in the Yerawada jail. It was during this time that Kasturba Gandhi died at the Aga Khan Palace. People’s movementThe arrest of the leaders, however, failed to deter the masses. With no one to give directions, people took the movement into their own hands. In Bombay, Poona and Ahmedabad, lakhs of people clashed with the police on August 9. On August 10, protests erupted in Delhi, UP and Bihar. There were strikes, demonstrations and people’s marches in defiance of prohibitory orders in Kanpur, Patna, Varanasi, and Allahabad. The protests spread rapidly into smaller towns and villages. Till mid-September, police stations, courts, post offices and other symbols of government authority were attacked. Railway tracks were blocked, students went on strike in schools and colleges across India, and distributed illegal nationalist literature. Mill and factory workers in Bombay, Ahmedabad, Poona, Ahmednagar, and Jamshedpur stayed away for weeks. In some places, the protests were violent, with bridges blown up, telegraph wires cut, and railway lines taken apart. Ram Manohar Lohia, describing the movement on its 25th nniversary,wrote: “9th August was and will remain a people’s event. 15th August was a state event… 9th August 1942 expressed the will of the people — we want to be free, and we shall be free. For the first time after a long period in our history, crores of people expressed their desire to be free...” The slogan ‘Quit India’While Gandhi gave the clarion call of Quit India, the slogan was coined by Yusuf Meherally, a socialist and trade unionist who also served as Mayor of Mumbai. A few years ago, in 1928, it was Meherally who had coined the slogan “Simon Go Back”. The Quit India movement was violently suppressed by the British – people were shot, lathi-charged, villages burnt and enormous fines imposed. In the five months up to December 1942, an estimated 60,000 people had been thrown in jail. However, though the movement was quelled, it changed the character of the Indian freedom struggle, with the masses rising up to articulate as they had never before – the British masters would have to Quit India. Courtesy: The Indian Express, August 11, 2020. |


--- [Quit India Movement] ---
The Quit India Movement was a political campaign launched at the Bombay session of the All India Congress Committee by Mahatma Gandhi on 8 August 1942, during World War II, demanding an end to British rule in India. After Britain failed to secure Indian support for the British war effort with the Cripps Mission, Gandhi made a call to Do or Die in his Quit India speech delivered in Bombay on 8 August 1942 at the Gowalia Tank Maidan. Viceroy Linlithgow described the movement as "by far the most serious rebellion since 1857".
The All India Congress Committee launched a mass protest demanding what Gandhi called "An Orderly British Withdrawal" from India. Even though it was at war, Britain was prepared to act. Almost the entire leadership of the Indian National Congress was imprisoned without trial within hours of Gandhi's speech. Most spent the rest of the war in prison and out of contact with the masses. The British had the support of the Viceroy's Council, of the All India Muslim League, the Hindu Mahasabha, the princely states, the Indian Imperial Police, the British Indian Army, and the Indian Civil Service. Many Indian businessmen profiting from heavy wartime spending did not support the Quit India Movement. The major outside support came from the Americans, as President Franklin D. Roosevelt pressured Prime Minister Winston Churchill to give in to some of the Indian demands.
The movement included anti-British boycotts and rejection of transactions involving the colonial government. Various violent incidents took place around the country against British rule, and the colonial government arrested tens of thousands of leaders, keeping them imprisoned until 1945. Ultimately, the British realised that India was ungovernable in the long run, and the issue for the postwar era became how to exit gracefully and peacefully. The movement ended in 1945 with the release of all jailed nationalists. Prominent independence activists who died during the movement include Mukunda Kakati, Matangini Hazra, Kanaklata Barua, Kushal Konwar, Bhogeswari Phukanani and others. In 1992, the Reserve Bank of India issued a 1 rupee commemorative coin to mark the Golden Jubilee of the Quit India Movement.


