=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Wikipedia]
The Chutak Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river power project on the Suru River (a tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in the Indian union territory of Ladakh. The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the powerhouse is located on the right bank of the Suru near Chutak village.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chutak_Hydroelectric_Plant

[Chutak Hydroelectric Project - Academic Dictionaries and ...]
The Chutak Hydroelectric Project is a run - of - the - river power project on Suru River (Tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (224 km away from the state ' s summer capital Srinagar). The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the power house is be located on the right bank of river Suru near Chutak Village. The project construction began on ...
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/11543968

[Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Bharatpedia]
The Chutak Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river power project on the Suru River (a tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in the Indian union territory of Ladakh (231 km (144 mi) from the capital Leh). The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the powerhouse is located on the right bank of the Suru near Chutak Village.
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Chutak_Hydroelectric_Plant

[Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Wikimapia]
The Chutak Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river power project on the Suru River (a tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (224 km (139 mi) from the state's summer capital Srinagar).
URL: https://wikimapia.org/8086657/Chutak-Hydroelectric-Plant

[Prime Minister Dedicates Chutak Hydro Power Station at Kargil, Ladakh]
Aug 12, 2014 · The Chutak Hydro Project is a run-off-river scheme on the river Suru, to generate 216 Million Units in a 90% dependable year having installed capacity of 44 MW (4 x 11 MW). Barrage site is located about 14 km upstream of Kargil near village Sarzhe. It utilizes a rated head of 52 meter developed by construction of a 15 meter high barrage.
URL: https://pib.gov.in/newsite/PrintRelease.aspx?relid=108549


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Wikipedia] ---
The Chutak Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river power project on the Suru River (a tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in the Indian union territory of Ladakh. The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the powerhouse is located on the right bank of the Suru near Chutak village. The project construction began on  23 September 2006, and the first three generators were commissioned in November 2012. The fourth was commissioned in January 2013.
The project included construction of a 47.5-metre-long (156 ft) barrage, having 15 m height above the crest level, an underground powerhouse, and 3.3 m dia and 10.02 km long head race tunnel and installation of four nos. of vertical Francis turbine of 11 MW each.
The project utilises a gross head of 63.4 m (208 ft) to generate 216.41 GWh in a 90% dependable year with an installed capacity of 44 MW. Each 11 MW underground generating unit was designed to operate under a rated head of 52 m and a rated discharge of 24.05 cubic metres per second.  The barrage diverts water from the river and involves a flooding of only 0.135 km2 (0.052 sq mi). Thus the power density is 44 MW per 0.135 km2, i.e. very high 326 W/m2, compared to dam-based hydroelectric projects. The project will be connected to the Northern Grid by the 220 kV Leh-Srinagar transmission line, which is to be scheduled for commissioning along with project’s commissioning.
The project was developed by M/s National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd. The generating equipment was supplied, erected and commissioned by M/s Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited. The generator/turbine was manufactured by BHEL's Bhopal unit whereas the controls were supplied by BHEL's Bangalore unit. The erection and commissioning was done by BHEL's Power Sector. As of date all four generating units of this project are running successfully.
The project, along with the Nimoo Bazgo Hydroelectric Plant, was certified as compliant with the Indus Waters Treaty by the Indian Central Water Commission, with the project information passed over to Pakistan.


--- [Chutak Hydroelectric Project - Academic Dictionaries and ...] ---
- Chutak Hydroelectric Project - The Chutak Hydroelectric Project is a run-of-the-river power project on Suru River (Tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (224 km away from the state's summer capital Srinagar). The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the power house is be located on the right bank of river Suru near Chutak Village. The project construction began on September 23, 2006 and is expected to be commissioned by Feb 2011. External images Chutak Hydroelectric Project Chutak Hydroelectric Excavation Chutak Hydroelectric Layout Plan The project include construction of 47.5 m long barrage, having 15m height above the crest level, underground Power House, and 3.3 m dia & 10.02 km long head race tunnel and installation of 4 nos. of vertical Francis turbine of 11 MW each. The project envisages utilizing a gross head of 63.4 m to generate 216.41 GWh in a 90% dependable year with an installed capacity of 44 MW. Each 11 MW Underground generating unit will operate under a rated head of 52 m and a rated discharge of 24.05 cubic metres per second. The barrage diverts water from the river and involves a flooding of only 0.135 km2. Thus the power density is 44 MW per 0.135 km2, i.e. very high 326 W/m2, compared to dam-based hydroelectric projects. The project will be connected to the Northern Grid by the 220 kV Leh-Srinagar transmission line, which is to be scheduled for commissioning along with project’s commissioning. The Project is being developed by M/s National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd. Categories:- Dams in Jammu and Kashmir - Hydroelectric power stations in Jammu and Kashmir - Run-of-the-river power stations Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Bharatpedia] ---
No content


--- [Chutak Hydroelectric Plant - Wikimapia] ---
Chutak Hydroelectric Plant India / Jammu and Kashmir / Kargil / World / India / Jammu and Kashmir / Kargil World / India / Jammu and Kashmir / Kargil hydroelectric power station/plant Add category The Chutak Hydroelectric Plant is a run-of-the-river power project on the Suru River (a tributary of Indus) in Kargil district in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (224 km (139 mi) from the state's summer capital Srinagar). The barrage of the project is at Sarze village and the powerhouse is located on the right bank of the Suru near Chutak Village. www.hydroworld.com/articles/2014/08/india-prime-ministe... www.hydroworld.com/articles/2014/08/india-prime-ministe... Wikipedia article: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chutak_Hydroelectric_Plant Nearby cities: Coordinates: 34°27'30"N 76°4'29"E - Mangla Dam 268 km - Tarbela Dam 314 km - Ghazi-Barotha Hydropower Project 360 km - Upper Tamakoshi Hydropower project 1206 km - Gadarwara Super Thermal Power Plant 1317 km - Pavana Dam 1773 km - Balimela Dam Reservoir 1878 km - POLAVARAM MULTIPURPOSE IRRIGATION PROJECT 1989 km - Talakalale Balancing Reservoir 2257 km - Chakra Reservoir Lake 2295 km - Chutak vill. 5.6 km - BATAMBIS 6 km - Kargil Airport 10 km - Pashkyum 12 km - Shoto Groung 13 km - Thona 14 km - Khachan 15 km - Chhobrak (5934m) 15 km - skamboo 15 km - Suru Valley 21 km


--- [Prime Minister Dedicates Chutak Hydro Power Station at Kargil, Ladakh] ---
Prime Minister Dedicates Chutak Hydro Power Station at Kargil, Ladakh Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today dedicated Chutak Hydro Power Station (44 MW) of National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) to the nation at Kargil Ladakh in Jammu & Kashmir . He was accompanied by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power, Coal and New & Renewable Energy, Shri Piyush Goyal, Shri N.N.Vohra, Governor J&K, Shri Omar Abdullah, Chief Minister of J&K, MPs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi & Shri Thupstan Chhewang and other dignitaries. Addressing the function in Kargil, Prime Minister said with the commissioning of Chutak Hydro Power Project, we have come one step closer towards meeting the power requirements of Ladakh. On this occasion Prime Minister announced an additional fund of Rs. 8000 crore for development of road projects in the state. He said he wish to make Kargil one of the fastest growing districts in the country. The Prime minister said it is time to change the old adage-Paani aur jawaani pahaad ke kaam nahin aate. He said through hydropower, the rivers (paani) are being harnessed for the benefit of the mountains. And electricity is not just for industry-but would also help the youth of the mountains hone their skills and find suitable employment, without having to migrate to urban areas. Union Minister of State for Power (I/C), Shri Piyush Goyal welcomed the dignitaries. On this occasion, Chief Minister Shri Omar Abdullah also addressed the gathering and hoped this project will help developing the region and state as a whole. The Chutak Hydro Project is a run-off-river scheme on the river Suru, to generate 216 Million Units in a 90% dependable year having installed capacity of 44 MW (4 x 11 MW). Barrage site is located about 14 km upstream of Kargil near village Sarzhe. It utilizes a rated head of 52 meter developed by construction of a 15 meter high barrage. It has 4.78 Km long 5.9 meter dia Head Race Tunnel. Power generated from Project is being supplied to Kargil District of Ladakh region of J&K. The 1st unit was commissioned on Nov’2012 and all the balance three units were commissioned in Feb.’2013. It has been completed at a cost of Rs.894 crore and total power generated from this power station will be supplied to Jammu & Kashmir state only. NHPC is today a premier organization in the country in the field of development of hydroelectric projects. A total installed capacity of 6507 MW is under operation, which includes 2 projects with a total installed capacity of 1520 MW in Joint Venture. There are 4 projects (3290 MW) under construction. The technical capabilities of NHPC in executing hydroelectric projects are unmatched in the country. Senior Central & State Govt. officials along with Shri Devender Chaudhary, Additional Secretary Power Government of India, Sh. J.K Sharma, Director (Projects), Shri R.S. Mina, Director (Personnel) NHPC were also present on the occasion. RM/ND/RS
