=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Carl Gordon (journalist) - Wikipedia]
Carl Gordon (13 March 1931 – 2002) was a Scottish journalist best known for his reporting on the Lower Clyde region and his later work with The Herald. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Gordon_(journalist)

[Former Telegraph journalist dies, aged 71 - Greenock Telegraph]
Jun 13, 2002 · FORMER Greenock Telegraph and Glasgow Herald journalist Carl Gordon has died, aged 71. Carl was visiting his sister Mary, also a former Telegraph journalist, in Kircudbrightshire, when he took ill and died suddenly last Thursday. He was born in Greenock on 13 March, 1931, and attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School.
URL: https://www.greenocktelegraph.co.uk/news/13984076.former-telegraph-journalist-dies-aged-71/

[xumo/xumo.xml.gz at main · bobstoner/xumo · GitHub]
Contribute to bobstoner/xumo development by creating an account on GitHub.
URL: https://github.com/bobstoner/xumo/blob/main/xumo.xml.gz

[Carl Gordon (March 13, 1931 — 2002), British journalist ...]
Carl Gordon is a Scottish journalist. Background He was born in Greenock on 13 March 1931, and attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School. Career His first job was as a railway clerk and he worked at various stations in the Greenock area before being called up for National Service in 1949. After training in the Royal Army Service Corps (now the Royal Logistics Corps) he was posted ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/carl.gordon/2486289

[Carl Gordon Journalist who covered the Clyde and wrote a column with a ...]
Jun 13, 2002 · Carl Gordon, for many years the journalist who covered the whole area of the lower Clyde for The Herald and its sister papers, has died aged 71. Born in Greenock in 1931, he attended Mearns Street ...
URL: https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/11957869.carl-gordon-journalist-who-covered-the-clyde-and-wrote-a-column-with-a-whimsical-bite/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Carl Gordon (journalist) - Wikipedia] ---
Carl Gordon (13 March 1931 – 2002) was a Scottish journalist best known for his reporting on the Lower Clyde region and his later work with The Herald.


--- [Former Telegraph journalist dies, aged 71 - Greenock Telegraph] ---
FORMER Greenock Telegraph and Glasgow Herald journalist Carl Gordon has died, aged 71. Carl was visiting his sister Mary, also a former Telegraph journalist, in Kircudbrightshire, when he took ill and died suddenly last Thursday. He was born in Greenock on 13 March, 1931, and attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School. He began his career in journalism on the Telegraph, eventually becoming the paper's first deputy news editor. During an outstanding career he covered many major stories, including the sinking of the Kintyre fishing boat Antares. All four crewmen died after the boat's nets were snagged by Royal Navy submarine HMS Trenchant. Carl was also a reporter at the Arthur Thompson junior murder trial in 1992 - which was, until the Lockerbie trial at Camp Zeist, the longest trial in Scottish criminal history. A few days after the trial ended, Carl received a note of thanks for his reporting from judge Lord McCluskey. Paul Ferris, who was found not guilty of the murder, also praised his coverage of the proceedings. Carl's first job was as a railway clerk, and he worked at various stations in the Greenock area before being called up for National Service in 1949. After training in the Royal Army Service Corps (now the Royal Logistics Corps) he was posted to the War Office (now the Ministry of Defence) and left with the rank of sergeant in 1951. However, aged 11, he said he wanted to be a journalist. Within a week of leaving the army he began work with the Greenock Telegraph. He left in 1967 to become Greenock-based reporter for the Glasgow Herald and Evening Times, covering the entire Lower Clyde including Dunoon and Rothesay. In 1979 Carl moved to the Glasgow newsroom of the Herald and retired in 1994. Afterwards, he undertook frequent visits to Scandinavia, particularly Denmark, where his maternal grandfather came from. He wrote about his travels in The Herald, often choosing places little known to Scottish readers. He was a member of the Scandinavia Philatelic Society and the Greenock Philatelic Society. In 1965 he married Arline Bloomfield who died, aged 37, in 1984. They had a son, Mark and a daughter Nicola. Carl, who lived in Gourock, also leaves a grandson, Luke. The funeral Mass takes place tomorrow at 10am in St Ninian's Church, Gourock, thereafter to Gourock Cemetery.


--- [xumo/xumo.xml.gz at main · bobstoner/xumo · GitHub] ---
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.


--- [Carl Gordon (March 13, 1931 — 2002), British journalist ...] ---
Background He was born in Greenock on 13 March 1931, and attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School. He was born in Greenock on 13 March 1931, and attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School. His first job was as a railway clerk and he worked at various stations in the Greenock area before being called up for National Service in 1949. After training in the Royal Army Service Corps (now the Royal Logistics Corps) he was posted to the War Office (now the Ministry of Defence) and left with the rank of sergeant in 1951. He had announced at the age of 11 that he wanted a career as a journalist and in fact had to turn down the offer of a job as a reporter only a few months before beginning National Service. Within a week of leaving the Army, however, he began work with The Greenock Telegraph and eventually became the evening paper’s first deputy news-editors He left in 1967 on being offered the post of Greenock-based reporter for the Glasgow Herald and Evening Times. The area to be covered was the entire Lower Clyde including Dunoon and Rothesay and involved long hours of duty. In the late 1960s an average of 12 ships of various sizes were still being launched each year from Lower Clyde shipyards. In addition there were calls by transport-Atlantic liners and the docks were also busy. The district had three town councils to be attended and the United States base at the Holy Loch and the beginnings of the oil industry were also sources of news. With the eventual down-turn and closure of shipyards and heavy industry, however, it became apparent after a few years that there was no longer a need for a journalistic presence and Carl Gordon transferred to Glasgow in 1979. Among the stories he covered from Glasgow were the sinking of the Kintyre fishing boat Antares with the loss of its four crewmen after the boat’s nets were snagged by a Royal Navy submarine HMS Trenchant, and the subsequent fatal accident inquiry. He also covered the Arthur Thompson murder trial in 1992, which sat for 54 days over a three-month period at the High Court in Glasgow and was, until the Camp Zeist trial, the longest in Scottish criminal history. lieutenant was not generally known that a few days after the trial concluded, he received a note of thanks for his reporting of the trial from Lord McCluskey, the presiding judge. Paul Ferris, who was found not guilty of the murder, had written to The Herald during the trial praising the newspaper’s coverage of the proceedings. Carl Gordon retired in 1994. Afterwards he undertook frequent visits to Scandinavia, particularly Denmark, where he still had relatives and many friends. He wrote about his travels in The Herald, often choosing places little known to Scottish readers. He was a member of the Scandinavia Philatelic Society and the Greenock Philatelic Society.


--- [Carl Gordon Journalist who covered the Clyde and wrote a column with a ...] ---
Carl Gordon, for many years the journalist who covered the whole area of the lower Clyde for The Herald and its sister papers, has died aged 71. Born in Greenock in 1931, he attended Mearns Street School and Greenock High School. His maternal grandfather was from Copenhagen and when he left school at the age of 14 he had already started to teach himself Danish. His first job was as a railway clerk and he worked at various stations in the Greenock area before being called up for National Service in 1949. After training in the Royal Army Service Corps (now the Royal Logistics Corps), he was posted to the War Office (now the Ministry of Defence) and left with the rank of sergeant in 1951. He had announced at the age of 11 that he wanted a career as a journalist and had to turn down the offer of a job as a reporter only a few months before beginning National Service. Within a week of leaving the Army, however, he began work with the Greenock Telegraph and eventually became the evening paper's first deputy news editor. He left in 1967 on being offered the post of Greenock-based reporter for the Glasgow Herald and Evening Times. The area to be covered was the entire lower Clyde, including Dunoon and Rothesay, and involved long hours of duty. In the late 1960s an average of 12 ships of various sizes were still being launched each year from lower Clyde shipyards. In addition, there were calls by transatlantic liners and the docks were also busy. The district had three town councils to be attended and the US base at the Holy Loch and the beginnings of the oil industry were also sources of news. With the eventual down-turn and closure of shipyards and heavy industry, however, it became apparent that there was no longer a need for a journalistic presence and Carl Gordon transferred to Glasgow in 1979. Among the many major stories he covered from Glasgow were the sinking of the Kintyre fishing boat, Antares, with the loss of its four crewmen after the boat's nets were snagged by a Royal Navy submarine, and the subsequent fatal accident inquiry. A reporter of the old school with a reputation for the dilgence of his reporting and the accuracy of his shorthand note, he also covered the Arthur Thompson murder trial in 1992 which sat for 54 days over a three-month period at the High Court in Glasgow and was until the Camp Zeist trial, the longest in Scottish criminal history. It was not generally known that a few days after the trial concluded, he received a note of thanks for his reporting of the trial from Lord McCluskey, the presiding judge. Paul John Ferris, who was found not guilty of the murder, had written to The Herald during the trial praising the newspaper's coverage of the proceedings. But Carl's somewhat sober demeanour concealed an impish sense of hunour. Regular readers of The Herald will also recall with fondness his occasional columns. These usually involved whimsical coversations with his dog in which the canine companion invariably got the better of the exchanges. Carl Gordon retired in 1994. Afterwards he undertook frequent visits to Scandinavia, particularly Denmark where he still had relatives and many friends. He wrote about his travels in The Herald, often choosing places little known to Scottish readers. He was a member of the Scandinavia Philatelic Society and the Greenock Philatelic Society. In 1965 Carl married Arline June Bloomfield who died, aged 37, in 1984. He is survived by a son, Mark, and a daughter, Nicola. Carl Gordon, journalist; born March 3, 1931, died June 6, 2002.
