=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Koloman Bedeković - Wikipedia]
Koloman Bedeković (Hungarian: Kálmán Bedekovich; 13 October 1818 - 10 August 1889) was a Croatian politician, who served as Minister without portfolio of Croatian Affairs twice: between 1868 and 1871 and between 1876 and 1889.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koloman_Bedekovi%C4%87

[Minister of Croatian Affairs of Hungary - Alchetron]
Sep 24, 2024 · The Minister of Croatian Affairs of Hungary (Hungarian horvtszlavndalmt trca nlkli miniszter Croatian hrvatskoslavonskodalmatinski ministar bez lisnice) was a member of the Hungarian cabinet in AustriaHungary. The position was created following the CroatianHungarian Agreement in 1868.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Minister-of-Croatian-Affairs-of-Hungary

[Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia]
It was created in 1868 by merging the kingdoms of Croatia and Slavonia following the Croatian–Hungarian Settlement of 1868.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_Croatia-Slavonia

[Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia - Monarchies Wiki]
The King's appointed steward was the Ban of Croatia and Slavonia. On 21 October 1918, Emperor Karl I, known as King Karlo IV in Croatia, issued a Trialist ...
URL: https://monarchies.fandom.com/wiki/Kingdom_of_Croatia-Slavonia

[Koloman Bedeković &dash; Wikimore]
Koloman Bedeković (Hungarian: Kálmán Bedekovich Category:Articles containing Hungarian-language text; 13 October 1818 - 10 August 1889) was a Croatian politician, who served as Minister without portfolio of Croatian Affairs twice: between 1868 and 1871 and between 1876 and 1889. He had a significant role in the creation of Croatian-Hungarian Agreement. In 1871 he was appointed Ban of ...
URL: https://wikimore.private.coffee/wiki/en/wiki/Koloman%20Bedekovi%C4%87


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Koloman Bedeković - Wikipedia] ---
Koloman Bedeković (Hungarian: Kálmán Bedekovich; 13 October 1818 – 10 August 1889) was a Croatian politician, who served as Minister without portfolio of Croatian Affairs twice: between 1868 and 1871 and between 1876 and 1889. He had a significant role in the creation of Croatian-Hungarian Agreement. In 1871 he was appointed Ban of Croatia-Slavonia.
Bedeković was the leader of the Croatian Unionist Party and fought against his country's independence. As ban he called parliamentary elections in 1871. The People's Party emerged victorious, causing Bedeković to prorogue the Parliament of Croatia three times to prevent it from taking power. Dissatisfaction with the obstruction of parliament led to the Rakovica Revolt. Early elections were subsequently called for 1872. The failure of Bedeković to convene the previous parliament resulted in his removal from the post of ban and replacement with the first non-noble ban, Ivan Mažuranić.




--- [Minister of Croatian Affairs of Hungary - Alchetron] ---
The Minister of Croatian Affairs of Hungary (Hungarian: horvát-szlavón-dalmát tárca nélküli miniszter; Croatian: hrvatsko-slavonsko-dalmatinski ministar bez lisnice) was a member of the Hungarian cabinet in Austria-Hungary. The position was created following the Croatian–Hungarian Agreement in 1868. The minister was appointed by the emperor-king. The officeholder kept a connection between Croatia-Slavonia-Dalmatia and the Hungarian Kingdom (and also the Austrian part of Austria-Hungary). This position was without portfolio. Contents History of the position In accordance with the Article 44 of the Croatian–Hungarian Settlement the position of minister without portfolio emerged, representing the interests of Croatia-Slavonia and Dalmatia in the Hungarian cabinet, who became responsible to the National Assembly in Pest (later Budapest), which also functioned as a joint legislature after 1868 (however the separately administered Dalmatia sent delegates to the Imperial Council, not the Hungarian parliament). In December 1868, Koloman Bedeković was appointed the first Minister of Croatian Affairs. On 31 January 1869, Emperor-King Franz Joseph I ordered the abolition of the Croatian Court Chancellery in Vienna which was officially replaced by the Royal Ministry of Dalmatia, Croatia and Slavonia (after 1873 Ministry of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia) in the Hungarian capital and the autonomous Royal Land Government in Zagreb. By May 1869 the ministry moved to Buda and seated at 16 Dísz Square. Lands of the Crown of Saint Stephen (1868–1918) Parties Croatian Unionist Party Croatian National Party Liberal Party/National Party of Work National Constitution Party Catholic People's Party MSZDP Independent Hungarian People's Republic (1918–1919) Parties MSZDP After World War I After the First World War the ministry was dissolved because Croatia-Slavonia became part of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and subsequently the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. However, the position de jure existed until the proclamation of the Hungarian Soviet Republic in March 1919. Zsigmond Kunfi, as the last de facto minister of Croatian Affairs, was entrusted with the ministry's liquidation between 6 November 1918 and 19 January 1919.


--- [Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia] ---
The Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia or the Triune Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia (Croatian: Trojedna Kraljevina Hrvatska, Slavonija i Dalmacija; Hungarian: Horvát-Szlavónország or Horvát–Szlavón Királyság; German: Königreich Kroatien, Slawonien und Dalmatien) was a nominally autonomous kingdom and constitutionally defined separate political nation within the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It was created in 1868 by merging the kingdoms of Croatia and Slavonia following the Croatian–Hungarian Settlement of 1868. It was associated with the Kingdom of Hungary within the dual Austro-Hungarian state, being within the Lands of the Crown of St. Stephen, also known as Transleithania. While Croatia had been granted a wide internal autonomy with "national features", in reality, Croatian control over key issues such as tax and military issues was minimal and hampered by Hungary. It was officially referred to as the Triune Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia, also simply known as the Triune Kingdom, and had claims on Kingdom of Dalmatia, which was administered separately by the Austrian Cisleithania.  The city of Rijeka, following a disputed section in the 1868 Settlement known as the Rijeka Addendum, became a corpus separatum and was legally owned by Hungary, but administered by both Croatia and Hungary.
The Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia was ruled by the emperor of Austria, who bore the title King of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia and was confirmed by the State Sabor (Parliament of Croatia-Slavonia or Croatian-Slavonian Diet) upon accession. The King's appointed steward was the Ban of Croatia and Slavonia. On 21 October 1918, Emperor Karl I, known as King Karlo IV in Croatia, issued a Trialist manifest, which was ratified by the Hungarian side on the next day and which unified all Croatian Crown Lands. One week later, on 29 October 1918, the Croatian State Sabor proclaimed an independent kingdom which entered the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs.


--- [Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia - Monarchies Wiki] ---
No content


--- [Koloman Bedeković &dash; Wikimore] ---
No content
