=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The One Where Rachel Has a Baby - Wikipedia]
The One Where Rachel Has a Baby ... "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby " is the double-length finale of the eighth season of Friends. It first aired on NBC on May 16, 2002. In the episode, Rachel spends 21 hours in labor, and watches many of her roommates, including Janice, giving birth before her.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_One_Where_Rachel_Has_a_Baby

[Ross Geller's Friends Timeline Explained - Looper]
Aug 18, 2023 · Ross and Rachel find out the baby's sex (in "The One Where Chandler Takes a Bath"), and, later (in "The One With the Secret Closet"), Joey suggests that Rachel move in with Ross so he can be more ...
URL: https://www.looper.com/419571/ross-gellers-friends-timeline-explained/

[The One Where Rachel Tells... - Friends Wiki - Fandom]
"The One Where Rachel Tells..." (also known as "The One Where Rachel Tells Ross") is the third episode of the eighth season of Friends, which aired on October ...
URL: https://friends.fandom.com/wiki/The_One_Where_Rachel_Tells...

["Friends" The One Where Rachel Has a Baby: Part 1 (TV Episode ...]
The One Where Rachel Has a Baby: Part 1: Directed by Kevin Bright. With Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc. Ross and Rachel go to the hospital to have their baby, but it's a long labor. They get stuck in a semi-private room, and many other couples come and go before Rachel is ready to deliver - the last couple being Janice and her new husband.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0583471/

[Rachel can't wait to find out the baby's gender | Friends S08 E13]
Friends | Season 8, Episode 13 Title | The One Where Chandler Takes a Bath Original release date | January 17, 2002. Rachel can't wait to find ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SP4hxrLXEWg


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The One Where Rachel Has a Baby - Wikipedia] ---
"The One Where Rachel Has a Baby" is the double-length finale of the eighth season of Friends. It first aired on NBC on May 16, 2002. In the episode, Rachel spends 21 hours in labor, and watches many of her roommates, including Janice, giving birth before her. Monica and Chandler decided to have a baby, Judy wants Ross to propose to Rachel, Phoebe flirts with a patient at the hospital, and Rachel accidentally thinks Joey proposed to her.
Part 1 was written by Scott Silveri, and Part 2 was written by Marta Kauffman and David Crane. Both episodes were directed by Kevin S. Bright. The two part finale was the most watched episode of the season with 34.91 million viewers. Jennifer Aniston won an Emmy Award for her work in the episode.


--- [Ross Geller's Friends Timeline Explained - Looper] ---
Ross Geller's Friends Timeline Explained "Friends" is easily one of the most iconic sitcoms of all time. Even years after its series finale, the story of six friends remains an essential part of the pop culture lexicon, from its notable theme music to a host of quotable lines ("We were on a break!"). Although "Friends" has been criticized for a lack of diversity, it's still imminently watchable, unlike many other somewhat dated sitcoms (ahem, "Married...With Children"). While the show is as close to a proper ensemble—where each star is about as central to the show and story relative to each other—as you can get, David Schwimmer's character, Ross Geller, stands out. This is mostly because of his central role in the Ross/Rachel romance that had so many fans on the edge of their seats, but also because he's hilariously, memorably awkward. He also played a pivotal role in bringing many of the group's members together, so he's at the heart of the fan-favorite show. Here is a rundown of how Ross became Ross, both before and throughout the series' events (warning: spoilers ahead). Ross: The Early Years Born to Jack and Judy Geller, Ross and his younger sister Monica (Courteney Cox) were born and raised on Long Island. Ross attended the same high school as his younger sister, and it was through Monica that he met her friend, the more popular Rachel (Jennifer Aniston). Ross developed a crush on Rachel early on (she knew, but didn't reciprocate his affections). During one notable prom, Rachel's date, Chip, appeared to stand her up. Ross quickly worked to ready himself to take Chip's place and spare Rachel the embarrassment, only for Chip to finally show—to Rachel's delight and Ross' dismay. After high school, Ross met Chandler (Matthew Perry) at college and the two quickly became best friends. Ross brought Chandler home for Thanksgiving in 1987, where Chandler met Monica and Rachel for the first time. Ross later went to graduate school at Columbia University, studying to become a paleontologist (incidentally, Ross is 26 in the pilot, which would make him a phenom in his field). Ross and Carol Ross initially met Carol Willick in college. The two dated, fell in love, and got married for a few happy years. Things took a turn for Ross in this early relationship when Carol, to Ross' great surprise, fell in love with a woman, Susan. This event unsurprisingly led to the dissolution of Ross' marriage, upending Ross' life and setting his arc in motion for the series. The divorce puts Carol and a sometimes-antagonistic Susan in a complex relationship with Ross that lasts throughout the series. The experience also left Ross insecure and untrusting in his relationships, problems that plague him throughout the series (and let's face it, Ross had never been that mature in matters of love to begin with). These contribute to serious missteps for Ross over the course of the series. Most importantly for Ross' story, however, is that Carol is pivotal in a major event in Ross' near-future life: the birth of his son Ben ... but we'll get there. Ross in Season 1 When Rachel returns to her friends, putting her life back together after leaving her ex-fiancé at the altar, Ross soon realizes that his old feelings for Rachel never left. A complication emerges early on at the revelation that his ex-wife Carol was pregnant with his child. As Ross copes with the emotional fallout of his divorce, he plans to tell Rachel about his feelings ... but before he can, Rachel meets neighbor Paolo during a blackout. The two start dating, and Ross, ever the jealous one, becomes increasingly frustrated with his situation. Meanwhile, their friends become increasingly convinced that Ross is in love with Rachel all over again. Rachel eventually breaks it off with Paolo, but then swears off men entirely, so Ross is no better off. Nevertheless, Ross persists. He repeatedly readies himself to tell Rachel how he feels, only to be comically interrupted, culminating in the biggest interruption of all: Carol in labor. They land on the name Ben for their son. Shortly before Rachel's birthday, Ross sets off to China for work. Rachel gradually realizes she has feelings for Ross, but can't reach him while he's abroad. She decides it's best to move on, but can't shake her feelings. When Ross returns, she rushes to meet him at the airport, not knowing he's returning with his new girlfriend, Julie. Ross in Season 2 Ross finds himself happy in his new relationship with Julie until a drunken message on his answering machine tells Ross that Rachel has fallen for him. Ross talks to Rachel about it in Central Perk before storming out, then returning to kiss her. Caught between his feelings for Rachel and his relationship with Julie, Ross and Chandler create a pro-con list for each to help Ross decide what's in his heart. Rachel discovers the list, causing her to become angry at Ross. But then she finds an old video of the time she'd almost been stood up at prom and Ross sweetly prepared to take her himself. The act revealed how long Ross had feelings for her, softening her heart. She kisses him, and they start dating, sleeping together for the first time at the museum where Ross works (saucy). Ross in Season 3 The season begins with Ross and Rachel now happily dating with a variety of fun, inconsequential stories, like Rachel's Princess Leia role play and Ross and Rachel attempting to give Chandler boyfriend lessons. Rachel, encouraged by Joey (Matt LeBlanc) and Chandler to quit waitressing, leaves her job to pursue a career in fashion. When venting her job woes to Monica, a customer named Mark mentions a vacancy in his department at Bloomingdale's that, eventually, Rachel gets. Ross becomes jealous and paranoid, believing her new boss has amorous intentions. When Rachel's forced to work on their first anniversary, Ross arrives at her workplace with a picnic basket and generally barges in, gets in the way, and makes a mess of the situation. Understandably, they argue, and Rachel suggests they take a break. After their fight, Mark comes over to Rachel's apartment in a gesture of platonic comfort. During a phone call, Ross hears Mark's voice in the background and becomes convinced his suspicions are true. He hangs up, and, in a depressive, inebriated state, has sex with a woman he encounters, Chloe. He later listens to a voicemail from Rachel in which she explains that she doesn't want a break after all and wants to be in a relationship with him. Ross attempts to hide his drunken mistake, but fails miserably. Upon finding out, Rachel breaks up with him in a massive argument. Their relationship really falters, argument after argument, until they agree to a mutual détente: They'll be civil for the sake of the group dynamic. Ross begins to date a woman named Bonnie who Phoebe knows—that is, until he learns that Rachel still has feelings for him. He has to choose between Rachel and Bonnie while the friends are at a beach house. Ross in Season 4 At the beginning of the season, we learn that Ross decided to break things off with Bonnie and restart his relationship with Rachel, but there's a catch: Rachel has given him an 18-page letter (front and back) demanding that he take full responsibility for every error in their relationship. Ross falls asleep before reading it in its entirety and agrees to its terms without fully understanding them. The pair have sex, and Rachel praises him for maturing enough to take ownership of the relationship's flaws. He erupts, stating he doesn't agree it was all on him. His outburst ends their relationship. Ross and Rachel yet again land in a strained friendship. They soften over time, particularly over Thanksgiving ("The One With Chandler in a Box"), when Ross finds out Rachel has kept a number of items from their relationship, even though she exchanges nearly every gift she's given. Mark asks Rachel to take his adult niece, Emily Waltham, to the opera when she comes to visit New York. Rachel has a hot date that night, so she convinces Ross to accompany Emily in her stead. Ross reluctantly agrees. Ross and Emily fall for each other quickly, though she inevitably must return to her native England. Ross proposes to Emily so she can move to the U.S., and they arrange for a London wedding. All seems well until, at the altar, Ross says Rachel's name instead of Emily's. Yikes. Ross in Season 5 Emily goes through with the wedding despite Ross' huge, huge mistake, but real forgiveness is harder to come by. Ross can't find Emily and goes to the airport in hopes she'll join him on their planned honeymoon. She doesn't show. With Rachel at the airport as well, Ross asks if she'd attend their booked honeymoon with him as a friend. Emily sees the pair just as they're embarking. Emily leaves and Ross runs after her, leaving Rachel alone on a plane to Greece. Ross continues to try to earn Emily's trust and she gives him an ultimatum: lose the friendship with Rachel. Ross agrees to avoid yet another divorce, but he just can't quit Rachel. He realizes he can't, ending his marriage with Emily. After all the drama, Ross becomes irritable at work, eventually lashing out after someone commits the (serious, in our opinion) transgression of eating his lunch ("The One With Ross' Sandwich"). After this and other incidents, he gets canned. Adding insult to injury, Ross gets evicted from Emily's cousin's apartment. Ross soon discovers that Emily is engaged again, causing him distress. He moves into an apartment across from Monica's, where he sees Monica and Chandler kissing. Discovering their hidden relationship pushes the embittered Ross even closer to the edge. On the eve of her new wedding, Emily calls Ross and wonders if they didn't give the relationship enough of a chance. Rachel intercepts the message and accidentally deletes it. Rachel tells Ross about it, but convinces him not to call Emily back. At the season's end, the gang goes to Las Vegas. Split off from the rest of the group, Ross and Rachel gradually get drunk, traversing the casino and stumbling into, and out of, a Vegas wedding chapel. Ross in Season 6 Ross and Rachel initially don't remember getting married. They figure it out, and while Ross doesn't want a third divorce, the pair agree to an annulment. Ross, whose responsibility it was to secure the annulment, tells Rachel it's taken care of, but reveals to Phoebe in confidence that they're actually still married. Ross intends to tell Rachel that he didn't annul their marriage, but continues to find excuses to put it off. The two get divorced at a judge's ruling, but agree that if they marry for real, it would be the one that lasts. Divorce: 3; Ross: 0. Ross has several small crises, like overdoing his teeth whitening ("The One With Ross' Teeth"), getting caught for blaming his early pot experimentation on Chandler ("The One Where Ross Got High"), and Chandler's later hurt feelings when Playboy publishes Ross' joke ("The One With the Joke"). Ross briefly starts dating Rachel's sister Jill, but stops before they kiss, not wanting to ruin chances with Rachel. It softens Rachel's heart toward Ross, and also gets Chandler to finally be able to cry ("The One Where Chandler Can't Cry"). Ross in Season 7 It's the night of Monica and Chandler's engagement, and Ross and Rachel decide to have one bonus night of sex. This angers Monica, who feels Rachel is trying to distract from her big event. The spat prevents Ross and Rachel's plan from coming to fruition. Phoebe temporarily moves into Ross' apartment, leaving Monica and Chandler's apartment to give the latter pair some privacy before they get their own place. Ross has a few misadventures, such as accidentally discovering he likes napping with Joey ("The One With the Nap Partners") and finding that his dissertation is in the library in a section where people 'hook up' ("The One With Ross' Library Book"). Ross decides to teach Ben about Hanukkah, and Ross, Chandler, and Joey try to convince Ben that it's as cool as Christmas. Ross and Monica's parents announce their intention to sell their childhood home. They offer to allow Ross and Monica to collect any belongings they want. Monica realizes they'd used her boxes to prevent flooding, which damaged her nostalgic goods. To assuage their guilt, their parents give Monica the family Porsche, making Ross jealous. The rest of the season builds towards the marriage of Monica and Chandler. Ross threatens Chandler, telling him to never hurt Monica, which Chandler finds hilarious. Ross later looks for Chandler, but instead finds a note to tell Monica he's sorry. Ross sets off to find the runaway groom. Phoebe and Rachel try to distract Monica. They find a positive pregnancy test that Phoebe thinks belongs to Monica. Chandler is found and the pair have a lovely ceremony, but we come to find out the pregnancy test is Rachel's. Ross in Season 8 Most of the gang thinks Monica is pregnant. Phoebe claims the positive test is hers, but privately encourages Rachel to take another pregnancy test, and Phoebe ultimately helps Rachel realize she wants to be a mother, though she won't admit who the father may be (shocker, it's Ross). Meanwhile, Ross meets Monica's colleague Mona and the two begin a relationship. Ross discovers Rachel's pregnancy, but hides it from Mona. Rachel has dinner with her father, Dr. Greene, and tells him of the pregnancy. He's furious that Ross doesn't intend to marry Rachel. While Ross and Mona are at his apartment, Dr. Greene storms his way into the apartment, revealing the pregnancy and causing Mona to nearly break it off. Ross persuades her otherwise. In his characteristically fumbling fashion, he later makes a series of mistakes: giving Mona a key to his apartment, then changing the locks, then telling Mona he loves her. Ross and Rachel find out the baby's sex (in "The One Where Chandler Takes a Bath"), and, later (in "The One With the Secret Closet"), Joey suggests that Rachel move in with Ross so he can be more involved with his child's birth (this is a fun bit of self-sabotage, since Joey also has hidden feelings for Rachel). Mona discovers that Ross invited Rachel to move in with him without even telling her, and the two finally do break up. Ross and Rachel remain friends while roommates and don't romantically reunite, but Ross' parents are a little less than supportive of the pair having a child out of wedlock. Rachel gives birth to their daughter, Emma Geller-Greene. Rachel begins to feel alone and worry if Ross (or anyone) will be there for her and Emma in the long run. She tries to talk to Ross about restarting their relationship. He shuts her down, not wanting to run the risk of going down that road again. Phoebe later convinces Ross to reconsider, while Rachel doesn't know Ross' motives for turning her down. When Joey comes to visit Rachel, a ring that Judy gave to Ross falls out of Ross' bag, which Joey leans down to pick up. He reveals it to Rachel, who takes it to be a proposal and says yes. Ross in Season 9 Joey struggles to clear up the accidental proposal situation. Meanwhile, Ross, ignorant of Joey's mistake, decides to propose to Rachel. The truth of the situation comes out: It was all a misunderstanding and no one really proposed, a fact that doesn't placate Ross' anger over Rachel saying yes. This also causes a rift between Ross and Joey. Ross and Rachel struggle with parenting Emma and continue to be roommates, but Ross sees Rachel kissing colleague Gavin at her birthday party (to his surprise) and the proceeding discussions help the two realize that their dating lives (or at least the potential) causes too much tension for them to be platonic roommates. Rachel moves in with Joey. Phoebe and Joey conspire to bring Ross and Rachel together romantically (in "The One With the Blind Dates"). They set the pair separately on a number of terrible blind dates, but they both realize it's been a strategic set-up. Ross falls for a paleontology professor named Charlie Wheeler, but she falls for Joey, which also makes Rachel upset, as she realizes she really does have feelings for Joey. Charlie eventually realizes she has more in common with Ross than with Joey and she breaks it off with him. Joey discovers Ross kissing Charlie, hurting his feelings. In anger at their betrayal, he marches to Rachel's room and kisses her. (If you think this sounds like a hot mess, you're not alone; some fans think Season 9 is when "Friends" started to jump the shark). Ross in Season 10 Ross catches Rachel and Joey kissing, discovering their new relationship. As much as he may try, he has a hard time accepting it. Rachel and Joey's relationship is short-lived, with both unable to shake the feeling they're too good as friends to have a romantic relationship. Meanwhile, Ross and Charlie have a healthy relationship until she's reunited with an ex-boyfriend for whom she still has feelings. After Rachel gets fired from Ralph Lauren for interviewing at Gucci, Ross helps her move out of her office, when the pair encounter her old boss, Mark. He arranges an interview for her that results in a job offer from Louis Vuitton—but in Paris. As her departure date approaches, Rachel has a going-away party during which she says goodbye to everyone except Ross, which hurts him. She later goes to his apartment and explains that saying goodbye to him would be too difficult. They end up sleeping together. Ross realizes that he's still in love with Rachel, but laments that it hasn't changed her plans to move to France. Ross races to the airport, Phoebe in tow, to tell Rachel that he loves her, but she gets on the plane anyway. Saddened, Ross returns home to find a message from Rachel. The message, left while Rachel was trying to get off the plane, is that she has changed her mind. When the message gets cut off, Rachel appears behind Ross. The episode implies that they ultimately have a happy ending.


--- [The One Where Rachel Tells... - Friends Wiki - Fandom] ---
"THEY SHOULD PUT THAT ON THE BOX!" - Ross Geller "The One Where Rachel Tells..." (also known as "The One Where Rachel Tells Ross") is the third episode of the eighth season of Friends, which aired on October 11, 2001. In it, Ross has a misunderstanding about what Rachel wants, Joey and Phoebe are offended when they learn that Monica and Chandler took their keys to their apartment, Monica and Chandler go on their honeymoon but run into trouble, and Rachel tries to get the courage to tell the truth. Plot[] Monica and Chandler are about to embark on their honeymoon. Rachel announces she is ready to tell the father of her baby she is pregnant with his child today, only to learn the others already know it's Ross, and they later inform Chandler, who is so shocked that his voice goes a bit squeaky. As Monica and Chandler are about to leave, another couple on their honeymoon is always ahead of them in line, getting bumped up to first class, the honeymoon suite, etc. The latter causes them to snap, so Monica and Chandler confront them. The couple insists they don't need the free stuff and they just want to celebrate their love for each other, so Chandler and Monica are welcome to all that stuff as far as they are concerned; despite the free stuff being at odds with their own love, Chandler and Monica accept and get the honeymoon suite. Joey and Phoebe find that Monica and Chandler have taken away the keys to their apartment. They want to get in, so Joey tells the superintendent Mr. Treeger that there's a gas leak. Treeger gets a fireman to chop down the door with an axe, so to cover for the mistake Joey and Phoebe have to call Monica and Chandler and pretend that they are the ones breaking down the door because they smell gas; however, this results in Joey breaking one of Chandler and Monica's chairs. Joey and Phoebe tell Ross that Rachel needs to talk to him about something important, and Ross is convinced Rachel wants to sleep with him again. When Ross gets home and finds Rachel waiting for him, he makes a big speech about how they shouldn't get back together, leaving Rachel confused. Rachel finally tells him she's pregnant, causing Ross to go blank for a bit. Once he recovers (after Rachel skims through a magazine), Ross expresses confusion about the pregnancy since they used a condom, so Rachel says that condoms only work 97% of the time. Ross freaks out when he learns this, leading him to call the complaint department of the condom company instead of talking with Rachel. Once he hangs up off-screen, however, he discovers Rachel has left because of his behavior and realizes his overreaction. After he goes to Chandler and Monica's apartment looking for her (learning about the door and receiving backup from Joey about the condom), Ross eventually goes to Rachel's doctor appointment and says he wants to be there through everything, while assuming they'll be getting married. Rachel says that they are not in love so she does not want to get married and that she can do this alone, which Ross disagrees with. They manage to calm down when they see the ultrasound, but Rachel freaks out when she can't see her own baby on the ultrasound picture, forcing Ross to point it out to her and Joey repeatedly. Cast and Crew[] Main Cast[] Jennifer Aniston - Rachel Greene Courteney Cox - Monica Geller Lisa Kudrow - Phoebe Buffay Matt LeBlanc - Joey Tribbiani Matthew Perry - Chandler Bing David Schwimmer - Ross Geller Supporting Cast[] Mike Hagerty - Mr. Treeger Amanda Carlin - Dr. Long Lynn A. Henderson - The ticket agent Evie Peck - The nurse John O'Brien - The airline employee Anita Dashiell - The front desk clerk Shane Nickerson - The man Laurie Naughton - The woman Crew[] Directed By: Sheldon Epps Written By: Sherry Bilsing & Ellen Plummer Quotes[] Chandler: Hey, what was that all about? Monica: Well, I guess there is no harm in telling you now. Rachel and Ross are gonna have a baby. Chandler: [in a high pitched voice] What?! I didn’t even know that - Why didn’t you tell me?! [Pause] Why am I talking like this?! Monica: I didn’t think you could keep it a secret. Chandler: [in the high pitched voice] What?! [normal voice] I am an excellent secret keeper. I have kept all of our secrets. Joey: What secrets? Chandler: Oh, no, no, Joey - I'm not going to tell you, because I am an excellent secret keeper. Joey: [Monica and Phoebe leave] Psst - you'll tell me later? Chandler: You already know. Phoebe: Did Rachel find you? Ross: No. Why? Phoebe: Oh, she was looking for you. Ross: Oh, well, I guess I’ll catch up with her later. Phoebe: Well, she really wanted to talk to you now. Joey: Yeah, it seemed pretty important. Ross: Oh, no. Phoebe: What? Ross: I think I might know what this is about. [Phoebe and Joey trade looks] Joey: Really? Ross: Yeah. Uh, uh - we promised we weren’t gonna tell anybody this, but, uh, about a month ago Rachel and I slept together. Phoebe: [deadpan] And? Ross: Wow! I thought you would be a little more shocked. Phoebe: Oh, sorry. [Shocked] And?! Ross: Well, we - we said we’d just do it that one time, but - but now I think she may wanna start things up again. Joey: Yeah, I don’t think that’s what it is. Ross: Why? What - what else could it be? Joey: Oh, wow, I don’t feel well. Ross: I’m telling you. I’m telling you. That’s what it is. No wonder she was looking at me all funny during the wedding. She didn’t say anything to you? Phoebe: [To Joey] Maybe it’s something you ate? Joey: Please, just - just - just go and talk to Rachel. Ross: Yeah, I guess I should. Man, you know what I have to realize? Maybe I’m just not the type of guy women can have just one night with. You know, they - they always seem to want a little bit more. I should remember that. [Ross is walking towards his apartment and sees Rachel sitting in front of the door] Rachel: [seeing him] Hi. Ross: Hi. Rachel: Hi. [He helps her up] Um, I think there’s something that we really need to talk about. Ross: [quietly confident] I think we do. Why don’t we go inside? [They go inside] Look, uh, I know why you’re here. Rachel: You do? Ross: Yeah, and to save you from any embarrassment - um, I think maybe I should talk first. Rachel: (warily) OK. Ross: OK. [He sits her down in a chair] Uh, Ross and Rachel. Rachel and Ross. That’s been one heck of a see-saw, hasn’t it? Rachel: [confused] What? Ross: I mean, look, that - that one night we had was fun and... and certainly passionate, but don’t you think it’s better if we just stayed friends? Rachel: Seriously. What? Ross: OK. OK. You know what? If you want to, we can do it one more time. I mean, I’d - I’d be okay with that. In fact, I have some time right now. Rachel: OK, you know what? Can I - can I talk now? Ross: Oh, sure. [sits on the apothecary table and touches her hand] Rachel: [touches his knee] I’m pregnant. [Ross stops] Ross? [Ross is staring off into space] Ross? [Ross is still frozen] OK, whenever you’re ready. [Sits back and opens her magazine] And you’re the father by the way - but you got that. [Rachel has just told Ross that she is pregnant] Ross: Yeah, I need, uh... I'm just - I don't know - I don't understand, um, how this happened? We - we used a condom. Rachel: I know. I know - but, you know, condoms only work, like, 97% of the time. Ross: What? What? What? Well, they should put that on the box! Rachel: They do! Ross: No, they don't! [he runs to the bedroom, and returns with his box of condoms] Well, they should put it in huge black letters! Rachel: OK, Ross - come on; let's just forget about the condoms. Ross: Oh, well, I may as well have! Rachel: Listen - you know what? I was really freaked out too when I found out... Ross: Freaked out? Hey - no, I’m not freaked out! I’m indignant! As a consumer! Rachel: You know what? Let’s - let’s talk later. Ross: No! No! I want to talk now! OK? I - In fact, [picks up the phone] I am going to talk to the president of the condom company! Rachel: OK - you know, maybe I should come back... [Starts to leave] Ross: [grabs her] Shh! Shh! Shh! Rachel: [stops] OK. Ross: [on phone] Yeah, I’ll press 1! [Ross presses one while Rachel escapes] Ross: Rachel's pregnant. Phoebe and Joey: [feigning surprise] Oh, my God! I can't believe that! Holy mother of God! Ross: With my child! Phoebe: [as Joey gasps] That is brand new information! Ross: You already know, don’t you? Phoebe: A little bit. Joey: How are you doing? Ross: OK. OK. I mean, I’ll be OK. It’s just - I don’t think I handled it very well. Joey: Well, what did you say to her? Ross: Nothing. But the complaint department at the condom company got an earful. And then, when I turned around, she was gone. Phoebe: Oh, Ross. Ross: But, hey, in my defense, I - I just found out condoms are, like, only 97% effective. Joey: [shocked] What? Ross: I gotta go find her. Joey: Whoa! Hey! Whoa! Hold up! Are you serious?! So, like, 3% of the time they don’t even work?! Huh? They should put that on the box! Ross: Evidently they do. Joey: What?! [Grabs his condoms from his pocket and looks] Monica: [Arriving at the honeymoon hotel with Chandler and seeing that the honeymoon couple who got first class seats on the plane now get the honeymoon suite] No! You have been screwing us all day! Man: Who are you? Chandler: We're you just 10 seconds later! Monica: Yeah! You already got the first class tickets; you got the lounge! I mean, we should get free stuff too! I mean, you’re not the only ones on your honeymoon! Woman: Well, you can have the suite if you want. [Hands them the keys] We don’t care about where we stay. We’re here to celebrate our love together. We don’t have to get free stuff. We just want to be together. Chandler: Awwww... We need the stuff! Joey: [Talking to Monica over the phone after he and Phoebe mistakenly broke down Monica and Chandler's apartment door] Hey, Monica, it's Joey. Listen, uh, Phoebe and I smelled gas coming from your apartment. Monica: What? Are you serious?! [looks at Chandler] Joey smells gas! Chandler: What else is new? Joey: [to Monica] Yeah and we'd go check it out, but you took away our keys. Monica: Well, do something! Get in there! Joey: How? I guess I could break down your door. Monica: Yeah! Do that! Joey: And - and you won’t blame us for any damage? [Gives thumbs up sign to Phoebe] Monica: No! [Pause] Are you doing it? I don’t hear anything! Come on! Joey: Uh, okay, I’ll - I’ll - I’ll break it down. [Hands the phone to Phoebe, gets up, picks up a chair, and starts banging it on the floor] Phoebe: [to Monica] Oh, hey, hi, he’s doing it. He’s breaking down the door. [The chair breaks in half] Okay, we’re in. [Hangs up the phone] Ross: I want you to know that I’m going to be there through this whole thing, OK? OK? The doctor’s appointments, the, uh, the Lamaze classes, uh, baby-proofing the apartment. Although we could probably worry about that ‘til after we get married. Rachel: What married? Ross: Well, yeah. I think we should get married. Rachel: What? Because that’s your answer to everything? Ross: No. Because that’s the right thing to do. Rachel: Yeah, maybe if you’re in love. But, Ross, we are not in love, are we? Ross: No, but... but still you can’t possibly do this alone. Rachel: Excuse me? Ross: Come on, Rach, you can’t even eat alone in a restaurant. Rachel: What? Ross: I’m just saying if you can’t eat by yourself, how do you expect to have a baby by yourself? Rachel: I can too eat by myself. Ross: When have you ever? Rachel: When certain people leave the table and I am not finished. Ross: Well, certain other people take two hours to eat a bowl of soup. Rachel: Oh, please. You inhale your food. Ross: I grew up with Monica. If you didn't eat fast, you didn't eat! Trivia[] - This episode's original script contained scenes where Chandler made fun of airport security and Monica seemed to issue terrorist commands to Joey and Phoebe over the phone. In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, this already recorded sub-plot was then changed to the one with Monica and Chandler losing newlywed privileges to the couple at the airport. The original sub-plot is included as a DVD extra. - Said scene can also be found on YouTube. - This is Treeger's last appearance in the show. However, the friends last mention him in "The Last One, Part 2". - Treeger asks Ross to tell their Yoga teacher, Jasmine, that he won't be able to make it to class. This is probably the same Jasmine who is Phoebe's former coworker (and Gunther's roommate) - The joke about condoms being only 97% effective is similar to how Julianne Moore's and Hugh Grant's characters explain the pregnancy to their friend in the romcom Nine Months (1995). - The Magna Doodle shows King Kong climbing up The Empire State Building. - Monica and Chandler go on their honeymoon in Nassau, Bahamas. In the DVD episode, Ross mentioned that they left without his pass to the Nassau Fossil and Natural History Museum that he was going to give to them. However, in "The One With Monica's Thunder", Chandler had suggested their honeymoon might be in Paris, so it's possible that they decided later on to have their honeymoon in the Bahamas rather than in Paris. - The original script had the intention of a running gag that Ross, the one with a PhD, doesn't know much about many things, as he was intended to freak out about both the condom ineffectiveness and not seeing the baby on the ultrasound. However, the writers later decided that it would make more sense for Rachel, being the inexperienced mother, to freak out about the ultrasound, so the script was changed and the episode was shown that way. - Coincidentally, this avoided a plot hole regarding "The One With The Sonogram At The End", where Ross does see his child via ultrasound. - In this episode, Phoebe wears a red sweater that looks similar to Ross' red sweater from the previous episode, "The One With The Red Sweater". - Ross claims that Rachel cannot be a single mother because she cannot even eat alone at a restaurant, even though in "The One Where Chandler Crosses The Line", Rachel eats alone at a restaurant just fine. Nevertheless, this was a subplot only included in the uncut DVD version, and not in any other releases or syndicated reruns. - Ross tells Rachel he will be there for her through everything, including baby proofing the apartment. Ironically, when Rachel baby proof's Joey's apartment in "The One With The Boob Job", (S9E16) Ross is not there to help her although he may have meant his own apartment as he assumed they will get married. - The time that Ross blanks out after learning of Rachel's pregnancy varies between the original broadcast and widescreen versions and the uncut DVD version of this episode. In the broadcast version, Ross is implied to have blanked out for several minutes during the commercial break while Rachel reads through a magazine. Before the commercial break, Rachel reads at the beginning of the magazine, however after the break she has reached the end and closes it while Ross is still blanked out. However, in the uncut version, the scene plays out without any fades or transition music; Ross blanks out for only 32 seconds and Rachel merely skims through the magazine for about 10 seconds. - This may explain why an additional shot of Ross being blanked out was included in the broadcast version following the commercial break. It does not line up with the other shots of him being blanked out as in the extra shot is head is tilted slightly to his right. - When Rachel was about to tell Ross about them getting pregnant, the audience created a very high noise hooting and cheering, that Jennifer Aniston had to come forward to request them to stop, so that they could complete the shot. Goofs[] - During the opening scene of the episode, Chandler walks into a room. When he comes out of that room in the same scene, his hair is significantly shorter. This is a mistake as his hair is how it was before he came out of the room for the rest of the episode. This stems from the fact that the episode was partly re-shot to amend the subplot after the 9/11 attacks. Chandler's hair was also significantly shorter during the deleted scenes, and due to an editing goof, the earlier take for that scene was used for the second half of the opening intro. - When Joey and Phoebe call Monica about the supposed gas leak in her apartment, they are pretending that they need to break down the door to enter it. But it looks like they are calling from the apartment's phone and Monica could have seen her home phone number when she answered her cell phone and known they weren't telling the truth. - In the same scene, the items on the table change. Sometimes there is a glass bowl that Joey ate out of, and sometimes there is a decorative bowl with vegetables in it. - The way in which Rachel holds her magazine when she enters Ross' apartment changes between shots. In some shots the image on the cover is facing outwards while in others it's facing inwards. - When Ross finds Rachel sat outside his apartment, he comes from her left. However, in previous episodes the hallway ended there. - Ross and Rachel see a sonogram of their baby, even though Rachel's not hooked up to anything and Dr. Long doesn't place anything on her belly. - When Ross finds Rachel outside his apartment, his suit jacket was buttoned. When Ross sat in front of Rachel on the apothecary table, his jacket was unbuttoned. When Ross returned from his bedroom with his box of condoms, his jacket was buttoned again. - Treeger tells Phoebe and Joey that Monica and Chandler will know about the new door because he'd have to put a new lock on it. If one looks at the broken door in the background, you notice that the lock is not damaged, meaning he could simply remove the lock and put it on the new door. - Phoebe and Joey didn't consider asking Ross if he had a spare key to Monica and Chandler's apartment. - Treeger said he'd have to give Monica and Chandler new keys, for the new door. An experienced building super attendant would move the old locks onto the new door, also Monica's ornamental frame. External links[] - Transcript of the episode including the deleted scenes - "The One Where Rachel Tells..." at the Internet Movie Database [] | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22 | 23 | 24 | | Preceded by "The One With The Red Sweater" | Season Eight Episodes | Followed by "The One With The Videotape" | | << Season 7 | Season 8 | Season 9 >> | ||||||| | #01 | "The One After 'I Do'" | #09 | "The One With The Rumor" | #17 | "The One With The Tea Leaves" | |||| | #02 | "The One With The Red Sweater" | #10 | "The One With Monica's Boots" | #18 | "The One In Massapequa" | |||| | #03 | "The One Where Rachel Tells..." | #11 | "The One With Ross's Step Forward" | #19 | "The One With Joey's Interview" | |||| | #04 | "The One With The Videotape" | #12 | "The One Where Joey Dates Rachel" | #20 | "The One With The Baby Shower" | |||| | #05 | "The One With Rachel's Date" | #13 | "The One Where Chandler Takes A Bath" | #21 | "The One With The Cooking Class" | |||| | #06 | "The One With The Halloween Party" | #14 | "The One With The Secret Closet" | #22 | "The One Where Rachel Is Late" | |||| | #07 | "The One With The Stain" | #15 | "The One With The Birthing Video" | #23 | "The One Where Rachel Has A Baby, Part 1" | |||| | #08 | "The One With The Stripper" | #16 | "The One Where Joey Tells Rachel" | #24 | "The One Where Rachel Has A Baby, Part 2" |


--- ["Friends" The One Where Rachel Has a Baby: Part 1 (TV Episode ...] ---
The One Where Rachel Has a Baby: Part 1 - Episode aired May 16, 2002 - TV-PG - 22m Ross and Rachel go to the hospital to have their baby, but it's a long labor. They get stuck in a semi-private room, and many other couples come and go before Rachel is ready to deliver - th... Read allRoss and Rachel go to the hospital to have their baby, but it's a long labor. They get stuck in a semi-private room, and many other couples come and go before Rachel is ready to deliver - the last couple being Janice and her new husband.Ross and Rachel go to the hospital to have their baby, but it's a long labor. They get stuck in a semi-private room, and many other couples come and go before Rachel is ready to deliver - the last couple being Janice and her new husband.


--- [Rachel can't wait to find out the baby's gender | Friends S08 E13] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
