=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Margaret Hamburg - Wikipedia]
Following her medical training, Hamburg moved to Washington, D.C., to begin her career in public service. She served in several roles, beginning with a position in the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the US Department of Health and Human Services. [16] She also worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University School of Medicine from 1986 to 1990. [17] From May ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_Hamburg

[AllGov - Officials]
She also worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University's School of Medicine from 1986-1990. In 1990, Hamburg left the NIH to serve as deputy health commissioner for family health services for New York City.
URL: http://www.allgov.com/officials/hamburg-margaret?officialid=28890

[26 Facts About Margaret Hamburg - FactSnippet]
5. Margaret Hamburg served in several roles, beginning with a position in the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the US Department of Health and Human Services. 6. Margaret Hamburg worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University School of Medicine from 1986 to 1990. 7.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-margaret-hamburg.html

[Margaret Hamburg - Reference.org]
Career Following her medical training, Hamburg moved to Washington, D.C., to begin her career in public service. She served in several roles, beginning with a position in the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the US Department of Health and Human Services. 14 She also worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University School of Medicine from 1986 to 1990. 15
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Margaret_Hamburg/6xNCpTGj

[Food and Drug Administration: Who is Peggy Hamburg?]
She also worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University's School of Medicine from 1986-1990. In 1990, Hamburg left the NIH to serve as deputy health commissioner for family health services for New York City.
URL: http://www.allgov.com/news/appointments-and-resignations/food-and-drug-administration-who-is-peggy-hamburg?news=838472


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Margaret Hamburg - Wikipedia] ---
Margaret Ann "Peggy" Hamburg (born July 12, 1955, Chicago, Illinois) is an American physician and public health administrator, who is serving as the chair of the board of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and co-chair of the InterAcademy Partnership (IAP). She served as the 21st Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration from May 2009 to April 2015.


--- [AllGov - Officials] ---
Dr. Margaret “Peggy” Hamburg is a highly regarded expert in community health and bio-defense, who earned high marks for her work as health commissioner of New York City from 1991 to 1997. While serving as NYC’s top health official, Hamburg managed to restore morale to an embattled health department—something the Obama administration hopes she can do for the downtrodden Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Born in Chicago on July 12, 1955, Hamburg grew up on the Stanford University campus, where both her parents, Beatrix (“Betty”) and David Hamburg, were academics and distinguished physicians. Her mother (born Beatrix Ann McCleary) was the first African-American woman to attend Vassar College and to earn a degree from the Yale University School of Medicine (which had previously excluded black students). Her Jewish father served as president of the Institute of Medicine from 1975-1980 and was known for his work in public health and other medical fields. Hamburg attended Radcliffe College (prior to it becoming part of Harvard University), where she received a Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, in 1978. She earned her MD from Harvard Medical School in 1983, and completed her training at the New York Hospital/Cornell University Medical Center in 1986. She did research in neuroscience at Rockefeller University in New York from 1985 to1986 and in neuropharmacology (the study of the action of drugs on the nervous system) at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland. In 1990, Hamburg left the NIH to serve as deputy health commissioner for family health services for New York City. Within a year, she was promoted by Democratic Mayor David Dinkins to health commissioner—at the age of 36, the youngest person to hold the post in city history. The following year she married Peter Fitzhugh Brown, an artificial intelligence expert, on May 23, 1992. (Brown is the director of Renaissance Technologies, a New York hedge fund.) Hamburg’s work convinced Republican Rudy Giuliani to retain her as health commissioner when he became mayor in 1994. Having inherited a department struggling with morale problems and severe budget constraints, Hamburg strove to improve health services for women and children, instituted a controversial needle-exchange program to combat HIV infection, made inroads into curbing the spread of tuberculosis (TB), and initiated the nation’s first public-health bio-terrorism defense program. Hamburg sent healthcare workers to patients’ homes to help manage their drug regimen, and between 1992 and 1997, the TB rate for New York City fell by 46%, and by 86% for the most resistant strains, according to her Institute of Medicine biography. During her term as health commissioner, Hamburg also worked as an assistant professor of clinical public health at Columbia University’s School of Public Health and as an adjunct assistant professor of medicine at Cornell University Medical College. In 1993, President Bill Clinton offered Hamburg the newly created post of federal AIDS czar. Pregnant with her first child at that time, Hamburg declined; she was the first New York City health commissioner to give birth while in office, resulting in her children’s birth certificates bearing her name in two places: as mother and as health commissioner. Clinton was determined to have Hamburg join his administration, and in 1997, he offered her the post of assistant secretary for policy and evaluation at the Department of Health and Human Services, which she accepted. Hamburg left the administration in 2001 to become vice president for biological programs at the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), a foundation created by Ted Turner to reduce the threat of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. In 2005, she became NTI’s senior scientist. While working at NTI, she became a leading advocate for changes in the nation’s public health policies and infrastructure to meet the challenges presented by modern bioterrorism. Hamburg’s affiliations include being a member of the Institute of Medicine and the Council on Foreign Relations, as well as a fellow for the American Association of the Advancement of Science and a distinguished senior fellow with the Center for Strategic and International Studies. She has served on the boards of medical supplier Henry Schein, Inc., The Rockefeller Foundation, The Century Foundation, Doctors of the World, The Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies, The New York Academy of Medicine, American Society for Microbiology Public and Scientific Affairs Board, CIA Intelligence Science Board, and Sidwell Friends Academy, where President Obama’s daughters, Malia and Sasha, are students. Confirmed by the Senate on May 19, 2009, Hamburg is believed to be an acceptable choice to both the pharmaceutical industry and consumer advocates in taking over the FDA. Drug companies, however, may not be too happy with Hamburg’s new deputy at FDA—Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, former head of Baltimore’s Department of Health—who will oversee the regulation of pharmaceuticals. A one-time aide to liberal Congressman Henry Waxman (D-CA), Sharfstein is seen by some industry experts as being a potential adversary for drug manufacturers.


--- [26 Facts About Margaret Hamburg - FactSnippet] ---
Margaret Hamburg served as the 21st Commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration from May 2009 to April 2015. 26 Facts About Margaret Hamburg Margaret Hamburg's mother was the first self-identified African-American woman to be accepted at Vassar College and to earn a degree from the Yale University School of Medicine. Margaret Hamburg completed her medical residency training at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and is Board Certified in Internal Medicine. Margaret Hamburg is married to Peter Fitzhugh Brown, a computer scientist and artificial intelligence expert. Margaret Hamburg served in several roles, beginning with a position in the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the US Department of Health and Human Services. Margaret Hamburg worked as a clinical instructor for Georgetown University School of Medicine from 1986 to 1990. In 1991 Margaret Hamburg was appointed Commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, where she served for six years, working first for Mayor David Dinkins and then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Margaret Hamburg served in this policy role until 2001 when she became the founding Vice President for Biological Programs and later the Senior Scientist for the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a foundation created by Ted Turner dedicated to reducing the threat to public safety from nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. In that role, Margaret Hamburg spearheaded efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to both naturally occurring and deliberately caused biological threats. Margaret Hamburg worked on reforms to reduce the dangers associated with modern bioterrorism and infectious diseases such as pandemic influenza. In June 2001, Margaret Hamburg participated in the Operation Dark Winter exercise at Andrews Air Force Base simulating a bioterrorism event involving weaponized smallpox. Margaret Hamburg is a member of the Medical Advisory Team for the Sidwell Friends School, where she served on the board of trustees from 2004 to 2009. Margaret Hamburg was nominated by President Barack Obama in March 2009 to become Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, and was unanimously confirmed in May 2009. Margaret Hamburg served at the FDA until her resignation on March 28,2015. The FDA, under Margaret Hamburg's leadership approved 51 drugs in 2014 alone, which was noted as being "most in more than 20 years" to which Margaret Hamburg attributes to "innovative approaches". In December 2016, Margaret Hamburg was named president-elect for the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Margaret Hamburg played the role of Secretary of Health and Human Services. Margaret Hamburg joined the board of directors for Alnylam Pharmaceuticals in 2018. Additionally, Margaret Hamburg was appointed by the Council on Foreign Relations to serve on its Independent Task Force on Improving Pandemic Preparedness, co-chaired by Sylvia Mathews Burwell and Frances Fragos Townsend. Margaret Hamburg participated in a tabletop exercise at the March 2021 Munich Security Conference modelling a fictional international outbreak of monkeypox. Margaret Hamburg is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American College of Physicians, as well as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the National Academy of Medicine, where she now serves as Foreign Secretary. Margaret Hamburg has received numerous awards, among them the National Consumers League's Trumpeter Award in 2011 and the National Center for Health Research's 2011 Health Research Policy Hero Award. Margaret Hamburg has received the American College of Clinical Pharmacology's Nathaniel T Kwit Memorial Distinguished Service Award, the New York Academy of Medicine Medal for Distinguished Contributions in Health Policy, the Radcliffe Alumnae Award and the American Lung Association's Breath of Life Award. Margaret Hamburg is a distinguished senior fellow with the Center for Strategic and International Studies and holds several Honorary Degrees. Margaret Hamburg formerly served on the boards of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Rockefeller University, the Nathan Cummings Foundation, Conservation International and Henry Schein Inc She has participated as a member of the Central Intelligence Agency's Intelligence Science Board. Margaret Hamburg is a member of the National Advisory Council for the COVID Collaborative.


--- [Margaret Hamburg - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Food and Drug Administration: Who is Peggy Hamburg?] ---
No content
