=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lennart Lindegren and Michael Perryman receive the 2022 Shaw Prize in ...]
May 24, 2022 · The Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 is awarded in equal shares to Lennart Lindegren, Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden and ...
URL: https://www.eurekalert.org/news-releases/953737

[The Shaw Prize Lecture in Astronomy 2022 - Events - Faculty of Science, HKU]
Sep 30, 2022 · The Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 is awarded in equal shares to Lennart Lindegren, Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden and Michael Perryman, Adjunct Professor, School of Physics, University College Dublin, Ireland for their lifetime contributions to space astrometry, and ...
URL: https://www.scifac.hku.hk/events/shaw-prize-lecture-2022

[6 scientists awarded Shaw Prize in online ceremony in Hong Kong]
Sep 30, 2022 · HONG KONG, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- The Shaw Prize Award Ceremony 2022 was held here online on Thursday, with six scientists commended for their prominent work in the prize's three categories. The Astronomy category went to Lennart Lindegren, professor emeritus of Lund Observatory at Sweden's Lund ...
URL: http://en.people.cn/n3/2022/0930/c90000-10153815.html

[LATEST: Laureates of Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 Announced]
May 24, 2022 · "The Shaw Prize" was established in 2002. It consists of three annual prizes: Astronomy, Life Science and Medicine, and Mathematical Sciences. It honours individuals who have recently achieved significant breakthrough in academic and scientific research or applications and whose work has resulted in a positive and profound impact on mankind. The Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 is awarded in equal ...
URL: https://hk.space.museum/en/web/spm/resources/curators-blog/2022/05/latest-laureates-of-shaw-prize-in-astronomy-2022-announced.html

[Shaw Prize - Wikipedia]
The Shaw Prize is a set of three annual awards presented by the Shaw Prize Foundation in the fields of astronomy, medicine and life sciences, and mathematical sciences.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaw_Prize


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lennart Lindegren and Michael Perryman receive the 2022 Shaw Prize in ...] ---
Hipparcos, launched in 1989, measured the positions and motions of over 100 000 stars with an accuracy two orders of magnitude better than ground-based observatories. Gaia, launched in 2013 and still operating, has measured the positions and motions of billions of stars, quasars and Solar System objects with even higher accuracy. The results from these missions offer an exquisitely detailed portrait of the distribution and properties of the stars in our Galaxy, as well as unique insights into its formation and history, and they impact almost every branch of astronomy and astrophysics. This award is also intended to honour the much larger community of astronomers and engineers who made Hipparcos and Gaia possible. The measurement of the positions, distances and motions of planets and stars has been central to astronomy since prehistoric times. The early naked-eye star catalogues of Ptolemy (ca. 100–170 CE), Ulugh Beg (1394–1449) and Tycho Brahe (1546–1601) were supplanted in the last two centuries by telescopic catalogues of ever-increasing size and accuracy. However, by the late twentieth century, astrometry from ground-based optical telescopes encountered insurmountable barriers to further improvements, arising from atmospheric distortions, thermal and gravitational forces on the telescopes, and the difficulties of stitching together data from different telescopes. The era of precision space astrometry began with the European Space Agency’s Hipparcos mission (1989–1993). Hipparcos catalogued over 100 000 bright stars. It measured annual changes in the apparent position of these stars on the sky as small as the width of a human thumb in Beijing as viewed from Hong Kong. By measuring small variations in stellar positions as the Earth travelled around its orbit (parallax), Hipparcos determined distances to over 20 000 stars with uncertainties of less than 10%. ESA’s Gaia mission, launched in December 2013, is based on the same design principles as Hipparcos, but has vastly greater capabilities. Gaia has measured the positions of 10 000 times as many stars as Hipparcos with an accuracy 100 times greater. Gaia has catalogued almost one per cent of all the stars in the Milky Way, and so far has measured parallax-based distances to over 50 million stars with uncertainties of less than 10%. Such parallaxes are the foundation of all distances in astronomy and thus are the firmest foundation we have for measuring the scale of the Universe. The study of the preliminary catalogues released by the Gaia project, all of which are in the public domain, has already transformed many areas of astronomical understanding. Even richer, larger and more accurate catalogues will be produced before the mission is completed in 2025 or later. Gaia is providing a survey of our Galaxy that will not be surpassed in quantity or quality for decades to come. Gaia can measure changes in the positions of stars on the sky as small as the width of a human hair in Beijing as viewed from Hong Kong, and motions on the sky smaller than the apparent rate of growth of a hair belonging to an astronaut on the Moon, as seen from Earth. This remarkable performance is achieved by a unique architecture consisting of two telescopes pointing in very different directions, whose images are combined on a single detector. The telescope spins once every six hours, and sends back to Earth precise measurements of the times at which the stars cross a fixed point on the detector. Why is accurate astrometry so important? The answer is that it provides fundamental data — positions, velocities, and distances — that underpin almost every aspect of modern astronomy and astrophysics. Accurate distances to stars allow us to measure their intrinsic luminosities, and this in turn is a sensitive measure of their internal physical processes, such as crystallisation in the interior of degenerate stars. Small-scale inhomogeneities in the spatial distribution of stars provide a glimpse of disrupted clusters of stars, perhaps similar to the one in which the Sun was born. Measurements of the velocities of stars allow us to infer their Galactic orbits, which in turn provide clues to the formation history of the Milky Way and the distribution of the mysterious dark matter within it. Gaia is detecting debris from small satellite galaxies that were disrupted long ago by the Milky Way, as well as irregularities in the distribution of stars in the Galactic disc that may reflect recent disturbances from surviving satellite galaxies or unseen clumps of dark matter. Gaia measurements have for the first time allowed us to determine the orbits of distant star clusters and dwarf galaxies. Gaia will provide a rich harvest of ancillary astronomical results, including an all-sky multi-colour photometric survey of a billion stars; radial velocities of many millions of stars; light curves for hundreds of thousands of variable stars; the discovery and measurement of thousands of extrasolar planets; a survey of asteroids and other small Solar System bodies in unprecedented detail; a uniform catalogue of hundreds of thousands of distant quasars; and stringent new tests of Einstein’s theory of gravity. Hipparcos and Gaia succeeded because of the collective efforts of many people lasting over half a century. The Shaw Prize recognises two of these individuals who have made sustained key scientific contributions to the two missions. Lennart Lindegren originated many of the concepts of the Hipparcos mission design and was leader of one of the two independent teams that carried out the data analysis for Hipparcos. He was a member of the Hipparcos science team for two decades and the Gaia science team for two decades after that. Michael Perryman was Project Scientist for Hipparcos from 1981 to 1997, Chair of the Hipparcos Science Team for the same period, and lead author on the 1997 paper describing the Hipparcos catalogue. Perryman was also Project Scientist for the Gaia mission from 1995 to 2008, Chair of the Gaia Science Advisory Group from 1995 to 2000, and Chair of the Gaia Science Team from 2001 to 2008. Lindegren and Perryman proposed the concept for Gaia in the 1990s and were instrumental in its scientific and technical design. More information The IAU is the international astronomical organisation that brings together more than 12 000 active professional astronomers from more than 100 countries worldwide. Its mission is to promote and safeguard astronomy in all its aspects, including research, communication, education and development, through international cooperation. The IAU also serves as the internationally recognised authority for assigning designations to celestial bodies and the surface features on them. Founded in 1919, the IAU is the world's largest professional body for astronomers.


--- [The Shaw Prize Lecture in Astronomy 2022 - Events - Faculty of Science, HKU] ---
- Date & Time - September 30, 2022 (Friday) | HKT 5:30pm/ UTC 9:30am - Venue - on ZOOM (https://bit.ly/39V24Hu) - Speaker - Professor Lennart LINDEGREN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy; Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden - Professor Michael PERRYMAN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy; Adjunct Professor, School of Physics, University College, Dublin, Ireland Established under the auspices of Sir Run Run Shaw, the Prize honours individuals who are currently active in their respective fields and who have achieved significant breakthroughs in academic and scientific research or applications, and whose works have resulted in a positive and profound impact on mankind. The Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 is awarded in equal shares to Lennart Lindegren, Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden and Michael Perryman, Adjunct Professor, School of Physics, University College Dublin, Ireland for their lifetime contributions to space astrometry, and in particular for their role in the conception and design of the European Space Agency’s Hipparcos and Gaia missions. Programme rundown: Welcoming Address & Introduction of Speaker by Dr Man Hoi LEE Head and Associate Professor, Department of Earth Sciences, Faculty of Science, HKU | Lectures on Space Astrometry: | ‘Why Are We Measuring Star Positions From Space?’ by Professor Michael PERRYMAN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy Adjunct Professor, School of Physics, University College, Dublin, Ireland Study Scientist and Project Scientist for the Gaia mission Project Scientist for the Hipparcos mission | ‘Fundamental Concepts For Global Astrometry’ by Professor Lennart LINDEGREN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden Member of the Gaia Science Team Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences | Q&A Session | The End | About the Laureate Professor Michael Perryman was born in 1954 in Luton, UK and is currently Adjunct Professor, School of Physics at University College Dublin, Ireland. He received his Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics and Theoretical Physics in 1976 and obtained a PhD in 1980 from the University of Cambridge, UK. He joined the European Space Agency (ESA) in 1980 and was nominated as Project Scientist (1981–1997) for the Hipparcos mission, and subsequently Study Scientist (1995–2000) and Project Scientist (1995–2008) for the Gaia mission. During his service in ESA, he had been Professor of Astronomy (1993–2009) at Leiden University, The Netherlands. He held a joint position at the University of Heidelberg and the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy, Germany in 2010. A year later, he joined the University of Bristol, UK as visiting Professor of Physics (2011–2012). He has been Adjunct Professor at the University College Dublin since 2012. Lecture Abstract Professor PERRYMAN will first look at the scientific aspects of this exciting journey. Firstly, he will put their modern space measurements in the historical context and summarise what astronomers have learnt from measuring star positions over the past few hundred years. After that, a few of the remarkable scientific advances which are resulting from the extremely accurate measurements of star positions from space, and also a little of what this is telling us about our place in the Universe will be covered. About the Laureate Professor Lennart Lindegren was born in 1950 in Sweden and is currently Professor Emeritus of Lund Observatory, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics at Lund University, Sweden. He received his PhD in 1980 from Lund University. He joined as a member of the teaching staff at Lund University and became Full Professor of Astronomy in 2000, serving until his retirement in 2017. During his time at Lund Observatory, he had served as the Director for six years. He was a member of the European Space Agency’s Hipparcos Science Team (1976–1997) and Gaia Science Advisory Group (1997–2000). He leads the scientific implementation of the Astrometric Global Iterative Solution in the Gaia Data Processing and Analysis Consortium and is also a member of the Gaia Science Team (2001–). He also served as Project Coordinator for the Marie Curie Research Training Network ELSA (2006–2010). He is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Lecture Abstract Professor LINDEGREN will describe how optical observations using a scanning satellite allow us to measure accurate absolute parallaxes and proper motions, and to build a rigid reference frame over the whole celestial sphere. The principle was first applied to Hipparcos data in the 1990s, and the same principle is now used for Gaia. The intertwined measurements of all objects bring formidable data-processing challenges that could not be mastered for Hipparcos without certain approximations. The exponential growth in computing power since then makes it possible to treat the Gaia data much more rigorously, in spite of the immensely larger data volume. Revisiting the Shaw Prize Lecture: Speaker Professor Lennart LINDEGREN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy; Professor Emeritus, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics, Lund Observatory, Lund University, Sweden Professor Lennart Lindegren was born in 1950 in Sweden and is currently Professor Emeritus of Lund Observatory, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics at Lund University, Sweden. He received his PhD in 1980 from Lund University. He joined as a member of the teaching staff at Lund University and became Full Professor of Astronomy in 2000, serving until his retirement in 2017. During his time at Lund Observatory, he had served as the Director for six years. He was a member of the European Space Agency’s Hipparcos Science Team (1976–1997) and Gaia Science Advisory Group (1997–2000). He leads the scientific implementation of the Astrometric Global Iterative Solution in the Gaia Data Processing and Analysis Consortium and is also a member of the Gaia Science Team (2001–). He also served as Project Coordinator for the Marie Curie Research Training Network ELSA (2006–2010). He is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Speaker Professor Michael PERRYMAN 2022 Shaw Laureate in Astronomy; Adjunct Professor, School of Physics, University College, Dublin, Ireland Professor Michael Perryman was born in 1954 in Luton, UK and is currently Adjunct Professor, School of Physics at University College Dublin, Ireland. He received his Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics and Theoretical Physics in 1976 and obtained a PhD in 1980 from the University of Cambridge, UK. He joined the European Space Agency (ESA) in 1980 and was nominated as Project Scientist (1981–1997) for the Hipparcos mission, and subsequently Study Scientist (1995–2000) and Project Scientist (1995–2008) for the Gaia mission. During his service in ESA, he had been Professor of Astronomy (1993–2009) at Leiden University, The Netherlands. He held a joint position at the University of Heidelberg and the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy, Germany in 2010. A year later, he joined the University of Bristol, UK as visiting Professor of Physics (2011–2012). He has been Adjunct Professor at the University College Dublin since 2012.


--- [6 scientists awarded Shaw Prize in online ceremony in Hong Kong] ---
6 scientists awarded Shaw Prize in online ceremony in Hong Kong HONG KONG, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- The Shaw Prize Award Ceremony 2022 was held here online on Thursday, with six scientists commended for their prominent work in the prize's three categories. The Astronomy category went to Lennart Lindegren, professor emeritus of Lund Observatory at Sweden's Lund University and Michael Perryman, adjunct professor at the University College Dublin in Ireland for their lifetime contributions to space astrometry. The prize in Life Science and Medicine went to Paul A Negulescu, senior vice president of San Diego Research of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Michael J Welsh, professor of internal medicine at the University of Iowa for their landmark discoveries of the molecular, biochemical, and functional defects underlying cystic fibrosis, and the identification and development of medicines that reverse those defects, which can treat most people affected by this disorder. Noga Alon, professor of mathematics at Princeton University, and Ehud Hrushovski, Merton professor of mathematical logic at the University of Oxford won the Shaw Prize in Mathematical Sciences in equal shares for their remarkable insights that have transformed modern geometry. Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) John Lee delivered a video speech at the ceremony. Lee said that the inspiring work of the six Shaw laureates reveals what can be accomplished in the lifetime pursuit of scientific excellence and societal progress, serving as role models for the next generation of scientists in the HKSAR and all over the world. Hong Kong is blessed with the support of the country's 14th Five-Year Plan in developing into an international innovation and technology (I&T) hub, Lee said, noting that Hong Kong will work hand in hand with cities in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area to expand the scale of outstanding research platforms. Lee added that Hong Kong will build up a healthy I&T ecosystem that attracts global experts and nurtures local talents. Established in November 2002, the Shaw Prize is managed and administered by the Shaw Prize Foundation based in Hong Kong and is awarded annually. Each prize bears a monetary award of 1.2 million U.S. dollars. Photos Related Stories Copyright © 2022 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.


--- [LATEST: Laureates of Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 Announced] ---
"The Shaw Prize" was established in 2002. It consists of three annual prizes: Astronomy, Life Science and Medicine, and Mathematical Sciences. It honours individuals who have recently achieved significant breakthrough in academic and scientific research or applications and whose work has resulted in a positive and profound impact on mankind. The Shaw Prize in Astronomy 2022 is awarded in equal shares to Lennart Lindegren (Professor Emeritus of Lund Observatory, Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Physics at Lund University, Sweden) and Michael Perryman (Adjunct Professor, School of Physics at University College Dublin, Ireland) for their lifetime contributions to space astrometry, and in particular for their role in the conception and design of the European Space Agency's Hipparcos and Gaia missions. Hipparcos, launched in 1989, measured the positions and motions of over 100,000 stars with accuracies two orders of magnitude better than ground-based observatories. Gaia, launched in 2013 and still operating, has measured the positions and motions of billions of stars, quasars and Solar System objects with far higher accuracy. The results from these missions offer an exquisitely detailed portrait of the distribution and properties of the stars in our Galaxy as well as unique insights into its formation and history, and impact almost every branch of astronomy and astrophysics. This award is also intended to honour the much larger community of astronomers and engineers who made Hipparcos and Gaia possible.


--- [Shaw Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Shaw Prize is a set of three annual awards presented by the Shaw Prize Foundation in the fields of astronomy, medicine and life sciences, and mathematical sciences. Established in 2002 in Hong Kong, by Hong Kong entertainment mogul and philanthropist Run Run Shaw (邵逸夫), the awards honour "individuals who are currently active in their respective fields and who have recently achieved distinguished and significant advances, who have made outstanding contributions in academic and scientific research or applications, or who in other domains have achieved excellence." The prize has been described as the "Nobel of the East".
