=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia]
Within the Muslim Conference party he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general. [citation needed] By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the state and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad

[THE BITTER TRUTH: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad]
Aug 21, 2018 · Within the Muslim Conference party he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference.
URL: https://ashokkoul.blogspot.com/2018/08/bakshi-ghulam-mohammad.html

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - Kashmir Network]
For his bravery and organisational prowess he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid-bin-Walid, the great Muslim general. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference.
URL: https://kashmirnetwork.com/bgm/life.htm

[Ikhwanis of the Yore? | Kashmir Life - Latest News & Breaking News from ...]
His query miffed one of the demonstrators who hurled blazing Kangri at him. They say, no " Gogga " was then potent enough to suppress mounting public anger. Perhaps, in the cries of holy relic movement, " Khalid-e-Kashmir " tasted his own medicine of " Naya Kashmir "!
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/ikhwanis-of-the-yore-issue20-vol06-62400/

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 5, 2024 · Within the National Conference party he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Bakshi-Ghulam-Mohammad


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia] ---
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (20 July 1907 – 15 July 1972) was an Indian politician who served as the prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a founding member of the National Conference and rose to be the second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah. He served as the deputy prime minister of the State of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947 and 1953, but disagreed with Abdullah's advocacy of independence for the state in 1953. He staged a 'coup' with the help of the head of state Karan Singh, resulting in the dismissal and imprisonment of Sheikh Abdullah. Bakshi was the longest serving prime minister, whose rule saw the formulation of the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and a normalisation of relations of Jammu and Kashmir with the Indian government.


--- [THE BITTER TRUTH: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad] ---
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (1907–1972) was a politician belonging to the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference and second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah. He served as the Deputy Prime Minister of the State of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947–1953, and as the Prime Minister of the from 1953 to 1964. The transition from Deputy to the Prime Minister post involved a 'coup', resulting in the dismissal and imprisonment of Sheikh Abdullah, and remains controversial. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad worked underground during this period, keeping a step ahead of the State Police. In 1946, during the "Quit Kashmir" movement, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad escaped to British India when a warrant was issued for his arrest. He visited many places, mobilizing public opinion in favour of the Kashmir agitation. After Mahatma Gandhi's visit to Kashmir in August 1947 the warrant against him was withdrawn and he returned home after seventeen months . Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad proved to be an able administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned fame and goodwill at home and outside Kashmir. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level land gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. On the political front, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had to face a stiff challenge from the Plebiscite Front which was formed by the loyalists of Sheikh Abdullah in 1955. In May 1963, after the loss of three Parliamentary by-elections, the Congress party, under the Kamaraj plan, decided that some ministers should resign and give all their time to party work. The final selection was left to Jawaharl al Nehru, who included Bakshi among the ministers to resign. Upon his recommendation, Khwaja Shamsuddin, a Bakshi loyalist was appointed to succeed him. The eleven years of the Bakshi's tenure have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as a period of stability in the State's post-independence history.[citation needed] Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India. Sadar-i-Riyasat Karan Singh administers the oath of office to Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, after the 1957 elections in Jammu and Kashmir Posted by : vipul koul Early life Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was born in 1907 in the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. He was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in Jammu and Kashmir in areas like Skardu and Leh. He later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners' Association.Politics in the Princely State In 1927 Bakshi joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State's Muslim population, which culminated in the formation of the Muslim Conceference. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad displayed talent for organisation during this period. He organised the students and workers and set up their unions. He was arrested several times during the freedom struggle including a sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-jail. Within the Muslim Conference party he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general.By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad worked underground during this period, keeping a step ahead of the State Police. In 1946, during the "Quit Kashmir" movement, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad escaped to British India when a warrant was issued for his arrest. He visited many places, mobilizing public opinion in favour of the Kashmir agitation. After Mahatma Gandhi's visit to Kashmir in August 1947 the warrant against him was withdrawn and he returned home after seventeen months . Prime Minister (1953–1964) In August 1953, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was dismissed and arrested, and Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad became Prime Minister of the State and also President of the National Conference by majority vote of the State Cabinet. The famous Kashmir Conspiracy Case against Abdullah and others was started during his tenure.Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad proved to be an able administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned fame and goodwill at home and outside Kashmir. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level land gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. On the political front, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had to face a stiff challenge from the Plebiscite Front which was formed by the loyalists of Sheikh Abdullah in 1955. In May 1963, after the loss of three Parliamentary by-elections, the Congress party, under the Kamaraj plan, decided that some ministers should resign and give all their time to party work. The final selection was left to Jawaharl al Nehru, who included Bakshi among the ministers to resign. Upon his recommendation, Khwaja Shamsuddin, a Bakshi loyalist was appointed to succeed him. The eleven years of the Bakshi's tenure have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as a period of stability in the State's post-independence history.[citation needed] Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India. Sadar-i-Riyasat Karan Singh administers the oath of office to Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, after the 1957 elections in Jammu and Kashmir In the Opposition (1964–1965) In 1964 Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad headed the opposition to the Government of Chief Minister Ghulam Mohammed Sadiq. In the late summer of the same year the majority of the legislators compelled him to move a vote of no-confidence against the Government but he was arrested and detained under the Defence of India Rules despite the support of the majority of MLA's in the State Assembly which was prorogued by the Governor. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was released on health grounds in December. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics.Posted by : vipul koul


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - Kashmir Network] ---
| Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. His personal style was a combination of excellent administrative skills, exemplary courage, and robust commonsense. Jammu and Kashmir made tremendous all-round progress under his leadership. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was born in 1907 and was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in far flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir like Skardu and Leh and later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners' Association. In 1927 he joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State's Muslim population, which was suffering under the autocratic rule of the Dogra rulers, culminating in the formation of the Muslim Conference in 1930. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed displayed a great talent for organization and capacity for sustained hard work during the years of struggle. He organised students and workers, set up their unions and went to jail several times during the freedom struggle - including a torturous sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-Jail. For his bravery and organisational prowess he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid-bin-Walid, the great Muslim general. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed proved to be a great administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level which gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned enormous fame and goodwill in and outside Kashmir. The eleven years of the Bakshi's Premiership have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as the Golden Period of the State's post-independence history. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India and was the last leader to hold the title of "Prime Minister" of Kashmir. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was released on health grounds in December 1964. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. His popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed passed away in July 1972 leaving behind the foundations of a modern, vibrant Kashmir unshackled from ignorance, hunger, poverty and backwardness. | | • Life • Achievements • Gallery • Family • Glimpses • Contact • |


--- [Ikhwanis of the Yore? | Kashmir Life - Latest News & Breaking News from ...] ---
No content


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Bakshi Mohammad Role Political figure | Died 1972 | | Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (1907–1972) was a politician belonging to the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference and second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah. He served as the Deputy Prime Minister of the State of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947–1953. He fell out with Sheikh Abdullah in 1953 and engineered a coup, after which he served as the Prime Minister of the State for eleven years, from 1953 to 1964. Contents - Early life - Politics in the Princely State - Politics in the Indian state - Prime Minister - In the Opposition - Death - References Early life Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was born in 1907 in the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. He was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in far flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir like Skardu and Leh and later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners' Association. Politics in the Princely State In 1927 Bakshi joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State's Muslim population, which was then under the autocratic rule of the Dogra rulers, culminating in the formation of the Muslim Conference in 1930. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad displayed a great talent for organization and capacity for sustained hard work during this period. He organised the students and workers and set up their unions. He was arrested several times during the freedom struggle including a sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-Jail. Within the National Conference party he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference's name was altered to National Conference. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad worked underground during this period, keeping a step ahead of the State Police. In 1946, during the "Quit Kashmir" movement, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad escaped to British India when a warrant was issued for his arrest. He visited many places mobilizing public opinion in favour of the Kashmir agitation. After Mahatma Gandhi's visit to Kashmir the warrant against him was withdrawn and he returned home after seventeen months exile. Politics in the Indian state In October 1947, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was released from prison and made Prime Minister. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad became Deputy Prime Minister and was entrusted with the Home portfolio. In 1948 during the Sheikh's absence from the State to represent India's case at the UN, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad took over as the Chief Administrator. Prime Minister In August 1953, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was dismissed and arrested, and Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad became Prime Minister of the State and also President of the National Conference by majority vote of the State Cabinet. The famous Kashmir Conspiracy Case against Abdullah and others was started during his tenure. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad proved to be an able administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned fame and goodwill at home and outside Kashmir. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level land gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. On the political front, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had to face a stiff challenge from the Plebiscite Front which was formed in 1955 but he remained in the saddle with a tight grip over the state machinery. In May 1963 the Congress lost three important Parliamentary by-elections, including a "prestige" contest in which a Union Minister was defeated. Perturbed at the reverses, the AICC, under the Kamaraj plan, decided that some Congress Union Ministers and State Chief Ministers should resign and give all their time to party work. The final selection was left to Jawahar Lal Nehru. After eleven continuous years of Prime Ministership, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was persuaded to offer just a token resignation in order to strengthen Nehru's hand even though he did not belong to the Congress party. In a move that typifies the strange relationship between Kashmir and New Delhi, his resignation was accepted along with those of five State Chief Ministers and six Union Ministers. The eleven years of the Bakshi's tenure have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as a period of stability in the State's post-independence history. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India. In the Opposition In 1964 Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad headed the opposition to the Government of Chief Minister Ghulam Mohammed Sadiq. In the late summer of the same year the majority of the legislators compelled him to move a vote of no-confidence against the Government but he was arrested and detained under the Defence of India Rules despite the support of the majority of MLA's in the State Assembly which was prorogued by the Governor. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was released on health grounds in December. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad's popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. Death Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad died in July 1972.
