=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lizzie Magie - Wikipedia]
Elizabeth J. Magie Phillips (née Magie; May 9, 1866 [1] - March 2, 1948) was an American game designer, writer, feminist, and Georgist. She invented The Landlord's Game, the precursor to Monopoly, to illustrate teachings of the progressive era economist Henry George.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lizzie_Magie

[Lizzie Magie (1866-1948) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Magie's board game allowed her the ability to illustrate her perspective on the current system of idle landlords and show how the monopoly system was failing average Americans. Magie should be remembered for being a progressive feminist in a time in which it was incredibly difficult for women to gain equality.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/100848078/lizzie-magie

[Elizabeth J Phillips (Magie) (1866 - 1948) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Apr 29, 2022 — Staunton City, Virginia, USA. Place of Burial: Columbia Gardens Cemetery, Arlington, Arlington County, Virginia, USA ... Elizabeth Magie Phillips ...
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Elizabeth-Phillips/6000000104124140018

[Elizabeth Magie ('Monopoly' precursor) | SangamonLink]
Mar 3, 2015 · Four years after the ad, Elizabeth Magie married Albert Phillips (presumably without a bill of sale). She, her husband, her parents and a grandmother are buried in the same plot in Arlington, Va.
URL: https://sangamoncountyhistory.org/elizabeth-magie-monopoly-precursor/

[File:Grave of Elizabeth Magie Phillips (1866-1948).jpg]
... Magie, Grandma Ritchie Magie, Columbia Gardens Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia (10/23/2021). Date, 23 October 2021, 17:25:53. Source, https://www.flickr.com ...
URL: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Grave_of_Elizabeth_Magie_Phillips_(1866-1948).jpg


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lizzie Magie - Wikipedia] ---
Elizabeth  J. Magie Phillips (née Magie; May 9, 1866 – March 2, 1948) was an American game designer, writer, feminist, and Georgist. She invented The Landlord's Game, the precursor to Monopoly, to illustrate teachings of the progressive era economist Henry George.


--- [Lizzie Magie (1866-1948) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
American Game Designer and Georgist. She invented The Landlord's Game, the precursor to Monopoly, to illustrate teachings of the progressive era economist Henry George. She was born in Macomb, Illinois, in 1866 to James Magie, a newspaper publisher and an abolitionist who accompanied Lincoln as he traveled around Illinois in the late 1850s debating politics with Stephen Douglas. James Magie introduced Lizzie to the economist Henry George's writing, specifically the book Progress and Poverty, after which Magie became a strong supporter of what at that time was called a single-tax system (Georgism). In the early 1880s she worked as a stenographer. She was also a short story and poetry writer, comedian, stage actress, feminist, and engineer. In the late 1800's, Magie received a patent for her invention that made the typewriting process easier by allowing paper to go through more easily. When her invention came about, the numbers of women with patents was less than one percent. The fact that she was only 26 years old, gave her even more credit amongst her peers. She also worked as a news reporter for a brief time in the early 1900's. One of Magie's most memorable escapades was when she tried to auction herself off as a "young woman American slave" in order to make extra money. The ad Magie published became the talk of the town. It spread rapidly through the news and gossip columns around the country. Magie made a name for herself as a sexual, out-spoken, feminist. In 1910, at age 44, she married Albert Phillips. She first made the game, known as The Landlord's Game, popular with friends while living in Brentwood, Maryland, and sought her first patent on it while living there. In 1903, Magie applied to the US Patent Office for a patent on her board game, which was designed to demonstrate the economic ill effects of land monopolism and the use of land value tax as a remedy for them. She was granted U.S. Patent 748,626 on January 5, 1904. In 1906, she moved to Chicago. That year, she and fellow Georgists formed the Economic Game Co. to self-publish her original edition of The Landlord's Game. In 1910, she married Albert Phillips and Parker Brothers published her humorous card game Mock Trial. In 1912, The Landlord's Game was adapted in Scotland by the Newbie Game Co. as Bre'r Fox and Bre'r Rabbit. Although the instructions claimed it was protected by a British patent, there is no evidence this was actually done. She and her husband moved back to the east coast of the U.S. and patented a revised version of the game in 1924; it received U.S. Patent 1,509,312. As her original patent had expired in 1921, this is seen as her attempt to reassert control over her game, which was now being played at some colleges, where students made their own copies. In 1932, her second edition of The Landlord's Game was published by the Adgame Company of Washington, D. C., probably another self-publishing effort. This version was two games in one, as there were alternate rules for a game called Prosperity. After a January 1936 interview with Magie appeared in a Washington, D. C. newspaper, in which she was somewhat critical of Parker Brothers. Magie spoke to reporters about the similarities between Monopoly, and her own Landlord's Game. The article published spoke to the fact that Magie probably spent more money making her game, than she received in earnings, especially with the lack of credit she received after Monopoly was created. Another article was published that quoted Magie to say "there is nothing new under the sun". This was in reference to her own game and Monopoly. After all the drama with the articles and interviews, Parker Brothers agreed to publish two more of her games. They sold her final board game inventions, Bargain Day and King's Men, in 1937, and a third version of The Landlord's Game in 1939. In Bargain Day, shoppers compete with each other in a department store; King's Men is an abstract strategy game. Few copies of the Parker Brothers version of The Landlord's Game are known to exist, but Bargain Day and King's Men are less rare. Although her legacy may be centered on creating board games, she should also be remembered for creating easier and more effective ways of communicating important economic ideas. The Landlords Game was not simply about collecting property and attempting to become the largest real estate holder on the board but, it was about learning how to operate and be successful in real estate. Magie explained in her own words that her game was "a practical demonstration of the present system of land-grabbing with all its usual outcomes and consequences"(ATI). Another important aspect of Magie's life was her ability to find ways to fight back against widely held ideals in a time when women were treated as lesser to men. Magie grew up in a household of abolitionists which engrained in her the need to fight for what she believed in. This can be seen in the Landlord's Game as she was able to communicate her views on large industrialists like John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie. While it may have been nearly impossible to fight these incredibly wealthy men openly, Magie's the Landlord's Game created a platform into which her ideals could be shared without having to worry about being attacked by industrialists. Magie's board game allowed her the ability to illustrate her perspective on the current system of idle landlords and show how the monopoly system was failing average Americans. Magie should be remembered for being a progressive feminist in a time in which it was incredibly difficult for women to gain equality. Instead of protesting and following other forms of change, Magie innovated and found new lanes into which she could effect change. This highlights just how innovative Magie truly was and how her lack of memorization should change and she should be viewed in the highest regard, not just with female innovators but innovators as a whole. Additionally, Magie's legacy has started to grow more for her underrated participation in the invention of the game Monopoly. The roots of the monopoly game lie in the details of Magie's Landlord's Game. Three decades after Landlord's Game was invented (in 1904), Parker Brothers published a modified version, known as Monopoly. Magie's ideas had already been very well established. There are some key aspects of Magie's intention of her work that got lost in translation. Originally, the game was made to protest against monopolists, not to praise them. When Monopoly came about, Parker Brothers and a man named Charles Darrow, told their version that he had invented the game in his basement. Magie spoke out against them and reported that she had made a mere $500 from her invention and received none of the credit for Monopoly, which was undeniably similar to her Landlord's game. What Magie wished Monopoly had taught people about was the single tax theory. The reason behind her games was to help educate people too. She said if players had known what they were learning about, her work would "not have been in vain." American Game Designer and Georgist. She invented The Landlord's Game, the precursor to Monopoly, to illustrate teachings of the progressive era economist Henry George. She was born in Macomb, Illinois, in 1866 to James Magie, a newspaper publisher and an abolitionist who accompanied Lincoln as he traveled around Illinois in the late 1850s debating politics with Stephen Douglas. James Magie introduced Lizzie to the economist Henry George's writing, specifically the book Progress and Poverty, after which Magie became a strong supporter of what at that time was called a single-tax system (Georgism). In the early 1880s she worked as a stenographer. She was also a short story and poetry writer, comedian, stage actress, feminist, and engineer. In the late 1800's, Magie received a patent for her invention that made the typewriting process easier by allowing paper to go through more easily. When her invention came about, the numbers of women with patents was less than one percent. The fact that she was only 26 years old, gave her even more credit amongst her peers. She also worked as a news reporter for a brief time in the early 1900's. One of Magie's most memorable escapades was when she tried to auction herself off as a "young woman American slave" in order to make extra money. The ad Magie published became the talk of the town. It spread rapidly through the news and gossip columns around the country. Magie made a name for herself as a sexual, out-spoken, feminist. In 1910, at age 44, she married Albert Phillips. She first made the game, known as The Landlord's Game, popular with friends while living in Brentwood, Maryland, and sought her first patent on it while living there. In 1903, Magie applied to the US Patent Office for a patent on her board game, which was designed to demonstrate the economic ill effects of land monopolism and the use of land value tax as a remedy for them. She was granted U.S. Patent 748,626 on January 5, 1904. In 1906, she moved to Chicago. That year, she and fellow Georgists formed the Economic Game Co. to self-publish her original edition of The Landlord's Game. In 1910, she married Albert Phillips and Parker Brothers published her humorous card game Mock Trial. In 1912, The Landlord's Game was adapted in Scotland by the Newbie Game Co. as Bre'r Fox and Bre'r Rabbit. Although the instructions claimed it was protected by a British patent, there is no evidence this was actually done. She and her husband moved back to the east coast of the U.S. and patented a revised version of the game in 1924; it received U.S. Patent 1,509,312. As her original patent had expired in 1921, this is seen as her attempt to reassert control over her game, which was now being played at some colleges, where students made their own copies. In 1932, her second edition of The Landlord's Game was published by the Adgame Company of Washington, D. C., probably another self-publishing effort. This version was two games in one, as there were alternate rules for a game called Prosperity. After a January 1936 interview with Magie appeared in a Washington, D. C. newspaper, in which she was somewhat critical of Parker Brothers. Magie spoke to reporters about the similarities between Monopoly, and her own Landlord's Game. The article published spoke to the fact that Magie probably spent more money making her game, than she received in earnings, especially with the lack of credit she received after Monopoly was created. Another article was published that quoted Magie to say "there is nothing new under the sun". This was in reference to her own game and Monopoly. After all the drama with the articles and interviews, Parker Brothers agreed to publish two more of her games. They sold her final board game inventions, Bargain Day and King's Men, in 1937, and a third version of The Landlord's Game in 1939. In Bargain Day, shoppers compete with each other in a department store; King's Men is an abstract strategy game. Few copies of the Parker Brothers version of The Landlord's Game are known to exist, but Bargain Day and King's Men are less rare. Although her legacy may be centered on creating board games, she should also be remembered for creating easier and more effective ways of communicating important economic ideas. The Landlords Game was not simply about collecting property and attempting to become the largest real estate holder on the board but, it was about learning how to operate and be successful in real estate. Magie explained in her own words that her game was "a practical demonstration of the present system of land-grabbing with all its usual outcomes and consequences"(ATI). Another important aspect of Magie's life was her ability to find ways to fight back against widely held ideals in a time when women were treated as lesser to men. Magie grew up in a household of abolitionists which engrained in her the need to fight for what she believed in. This can be seen in the Landlord's Game as she was able to communicate her views on large industrialists like John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie. While it may have been nearly impossible to fight these incredibly wealthy men openly, Magie's the Landlord's Game created a platform into which her ideals could be shared without having to worry about being attacked by industrialists. Magie's board game allowed her the ability to illustrate her perspective on the current system of idle landlords and show how the monopoly system was failing average Americans. Magie should be remembered for being a progressive feminist in a time in which it was incredibly difficult for women to gain equality. Instead of protesting and following other forms of change, Magie innovated and found new lanes into which she could effect change. This highlights just how innovative Magie truly was and how her lack of memorization should change and she should be viewed in the highest regard, not just with female innovators but innovators as a whole. Additionally, Magie's legacy has started to grow more for her underrated participation in the invention of the game Monopoly. The roots of the monopoly game lie in the details of Magie's Landlord's Game. Three decades after Landlord's Game was invented (in 1904), Parker Brothers published a modified version, known as Monopoly. Magie's ideas had already been very well established. There are some key aspects of Magie's intention of her work that got lost in translation. Originally, the game was made to protest against monopolists, not to praise them. When Monopoly came about, Parker Brothers and a man named Charles Darrow, told their version that he had invented the game in his basement. Magie spoke out against them and reported that she had made a mere $500 from her invention and received none of the credit for Monopoly, which was undeniably similar to her Landlord's game. What Magie wished Monopoly had taught people about was the single tax theory. The reason behind her games was to help educate people too. She said if players had known what they were learning about, her work would "not have been in vain." Bio courtesy of: Wikipedia


--- [Elizabeth J Phillips (Magie) (1866 - 1948) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Elizabeth Magie ('Monopoly' precursor) | SangamonLink] ---
Elizabeth Magie, who designed the heart of what later became the board game Monopoly, spent much of her youth in Springfield. Magie (1866-1948) moved with her family to Springfield in the late 1870s, after her father, formerly a newspaper editor in Macomb and Canton and acquaintance of Abraham Lincoln, was named state Printer Expert – a job in which he apparently edited and proofread state documents before they were published. The elder Magie (1826-93) was a controversial figure in Springfield, partly because of questions over his competence — the Girard Review once found more than 100 errors in a 24-page report from the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Magie’s economic and political views drew more criticism. He was a follower of Henry George, who popularized the idea of a single tax on land. Magie also was a “greenbacker,” favoring cheap money and opposing monopolies. When he tried unsuccessfully in 1883 to become clerk of the Illinois House, a post that was selected by a vote of House members, the Illinois State Register described him as “independent, greenback, communistic” James Magie. The Magie family moved to Washington, D.C., sometime in the 1880s, and daughter Elizabeth became a stenographer. According to a Feb. 13, 2015, story in The New York Times, she also “wrote poetry and short stories and did comedic routines on stage.” She obviously had adopted much of her father’s political philosophy as well, and in 1903 she sought legal recognition for The Landlord’s Game, which, ironically given its later development as Monopoly, was intended to be anti-monopolistic. The rules of The Landlord’s Game make it clear that Monopoly, unveiled in the 1930s, is a direct descendant. The Landlord’s Game provides that players can buy spaces, put houses on them and charge rent to other players who land on their spaces. The game also includes a Jail space, a Central Park space (instead of Free Parking) and payment of wages each time a player makes a full circuit of the board. Charles Darrow, an unemployed Philadelphia businessman, was given credit for the creation of Monopoly for decades, but research for a 1973 lawsuit against Parker Brothers, Monopoly’s owners, turned up Elizabeth Magie’s prior claim. Parker Brothers even published a limited run of The Landlord’s Game after Magie protested Darrow’s appropriation of her ideas. She made little, if any, money off it, however, while Darrow became the first millionaire game developer in history. Elizabeth Magie was not just economically progressive – she was personally so as well. In 1906, to challenge the idea that marriage was the only desirable status for women, she advertised herself as “a young woman American slave” available to the highest bidder. That won her an article in the Oct. 3, 1906, Illinois State Register, in which family members still living in central Illinois hastened to say she didn’t mean it. “Relatives of the young lady (Elizabeth was 40 at the time — ed.) in this city claim that their eccentric cousin is doing a little advance press work for a new book which she is engaged in writing,” the Register reported. Four years after the ad, Elizabeth Magie married Albert Phillips (presumably without a bill of sale). She, her husband, her parents and a grandmother are buried in the same plot in Arlington, Va. Original content copyright Sangamon County Historical Society. You are free to republish this content as long as credit is given to the Society.


--- [File:Grave of Elizabeth Magie Phillips (1866-1948).jpg] ---
File:Grave of Elizabeth Magie Phillips (1866-1948).jpg Tools Actions General Print/export In other projects Appearance From Wikimedia Commons, the free media repository Size of this preview: 800 × 533 pixels. Other resolutions: 320 × 213 pixels | 640 × 427 pixels | 1,024 × 683 pixels | 1,280 × 853 pixels | 2,560 × 1,707 pixels | 3,456 × 2,304 pixels. Original file(3,456 × 2,304 pixels, file size: 4.86 MB, MIME type: image/jpeg) File information Structured data Captions Summary [edit]| DescriptionGrave of Elizabeth Magie Phillips (1866-1948).jpg | English: Grave of Albert Wallace Phillips, Elizabeth Magie Phillips, James Kingsley Magie, Marie Jean Ritchie Magie, Grandma Ritchie Magie, Columbia Gardens Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia (10/23/2021) | | Date | | | Source | https://www.flickr.com/photos/194254226@N04/51624262006/ | | Author | engineerchange | Licensing [edit]This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 2.0 Generic license. - You are free: - to share – to copy, distribute and transmit the work - to remix – to adapt the work - Under the following conditions: - attribution – You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use. | This image was originally posted to Flickr by engineerchange at https://flickr.com/photos/194254226@N04/51624262006. It was reviewed on 24 October 2021 by FlickreviewR 2 and was confirmed to be licensed under the terms of the cc-by-2.0. | 24 October 2021 File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. | Date/Time | Thumbnail | Dimensions | User | Comment | | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | current | 07:29, 24 October 2021 | 3,456 × 2,304 (4.86 MB) | Engineerchange (talk | contribs) | Uploaded a work by engineerchange from https://www.flickr.com/photos/194254226@N04/51624262006/ with UploadWizard | You cannot overwrite this file. File usage on Commons The following page uses this file: File usage on other wikis The following other wikis use this file: - Usage on en.wikipedia.org - Usage on fa.wikipedia.org - Usage on fr.wikipedia.org - Usage on ja.wikipedia.org - Usage on nl.wikipedia.org - Usage on www.wikidata.org Metadata This file contains additional information such as Exif metadata which may have been added by the digital camera, scanner, or software program used to create or digitize it. If the file has been modified from its original state, some details such as the timestamp may not fully reflect those of the original file. The timestamp is only as accurate as the clock in the camera, and it may be completely wrong. | Camera manufacturer | Canon | |---|---| | Camera model | Canon EOS REBEL T1i | | Exposure time | 1/200 sec (0.005) | | F-number | f/10 | | ISO speed rating | 100 | | Date and time of data generation | 17:25, 23 October 2021 | | Lens focal length | 33 mm | | Orientation | Normal | | Horizontal resolution | 72 dpi | | Vertical resolution | 72 dpi | | File change date and time | 17:25, 23 October 2021 | | Y and C positioning | Co-sited | | Exposure Program | Not defined | | Exif version | 2.21 | | Date and time of digitizing | 17:25, 23 October 2021 | | Meaning of each component | | | APEX shutter speed | 7.625 | | APEX aperture | 6.625 | | APEX exposure bias | 0 | | Metering mode | Pattern | | Flash | Flash did not fire, compulsory flash suppression | | DateTime subseconds | 63 | | DateTimeOriginal subseconds | 63 | | DateTimeDigitized subseconds | 63 | | Supported Flashpix version | 1 | | Color space | sRGB | | Focal plane X resolution | 3,865.7718120805 | | Focal plane Y resolution | 3,885.328836425 | | Focal plane resolution unit | inches | | Custom image processing | Normal process | | Exposure mode | Auto exposure | | White balance | Auto white balance | | Scene capture type | Standard | | GPS tag version | 0.0.2.2 |
