=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Wikipedia]
In 1978, Kazi was appointed Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government. Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aftab_Ghulam_Nabi_Kazi

[Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 11, 2024 · In 1978, Kazi was appointed as Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government. Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Aftab-Ghulam-Nabi-Kazi

[Ex-SBP chief Kazi dies - Pakistan - DAWN.COM]
Aug 10, 2016 · KARACHI: Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi, a bureaucrat who headed the State Bank and designed a formula for water distribution among the provinces, died in Islamabad after a long illness.
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1276550

[State Bank of Pakistan - sbp.org.pk]
State Bank of Pakistan
URL: https://www.sbp.org.pk/about/governors/past.htm

[List of Governors of The State Bank of Pakistan - Wikipedia | PDF]
List of governors of the State Bank of Pakistan Here is a list of the governors of the State Bank of Pakistan. [1] List of governors No Governor Took office Left office Time in office 1 Zahid Hussain 10 June 1948 19 July 1953 5 years, 40 days 2 Abdul Qadir 20 July 1953 19 July 1960 7 years 3 Shujaat Ali Hasnie 20 July 1960 19 July 1967 7 years 4 Mahbubur Raschid 20 July 1967 1 July 1971 3 ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/763030748/List-of-governors-of-the-State-Bank-of-Pakistan-Wikipedia


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Wikipedia] ---
Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (Urdu: آفتاب غلام نبی قاضی; 6 November 1919 – 9 August 2016) SPk, SK, also known as AGN Kazi, was a Pakistani civil servant and a bureaucrat during the Cold War and during the post cold war. Kazi was born in Sindh, Bombay Presidency, in 1919 to an academic family. He started his career in the Indian Civil Service in 1944 and served as the Deputy Commissioner of Bihar and Orissa. After the partition of India, Kazi migrated to Pakistan and joined the Provincial Government of Sindh, and held positions such as Secretary of Finance and Secretary to the Governor of Sindh.
During the early 1960s, Kazi was Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy to the USA. After a brief stint as Additional Chief Secretary of West Pakistan, he was appointed Chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority. In that role, he was responsible for the completion of the Mangla Dam Project. In March 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and then a year later he became Finance Secretary, a post he held for over three years until his elevation as secretary general.
After the power struggle triggered by General Yahya Khan's general election, Zulfikar Bhutto became the new leader of Pakistan. In 1973, Kazi became Secretary General Finance and Economic Coordination. When Ghulam Ishaq Khan became Finance Minister, Kazi was appointed Economic Advisor to the President in July 1977. In 1978, Kazi was appointed Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government.
Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. As a leading civil servant, Kazi passed through several major events in the history of Pakistan, including the removal of Bhutto and the mysterious death of General Zia-ul-Haq. In 1993, he was appointed the chairman Privatization Commission and was again given the status of a Federal Minister as Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. In 1994, Kazi retired from office, at the age of 75, and led a quiet retired life in Islamabad. He died on 9 August 2016 after a prolonged illness. At his death, he was among the last living members of the old Indian Civil Service.


--- [Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Aftab Nabi Role Pakistani statesman | Preceded by V.A. Jafary Education University of Mumbai Succeeded by Saeed Ahmed Quresh | | President General Zia-ul-HaqGhulam Ishaq Khan Prime Minister Muhammad Khan JunejoBenazir BhuttoGhulam Mustafa JatoiNawaz Sharif | Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (Urdu: ﺁفتاب غلام نبى كاضى; November 6 1919 – August 9 2016) , also known as AGN Kazi, was a Pakistani civil servant and a bureaucrat during the Cold War and during the post cold war. Kazi was born in Sindh, Bombay Presidency, in 1919 to an academic family. He started his career in the Indian Civil Service in 1944 and served as the Deputy Commissioner of Bihar and Orissa. After the partition of India, Kazi migrated to Pakistan and joined the Provincial Government of Sindh, and held positions such as Secretary of Finance and Secretary to the Governor. Contents - Early life - Education and academia - Civil Service in India - Senior offices held - Retirement and death - References During the early 1960s, Kazi was Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy to the USA. After a brief stint as Additional Chief Secretary of West Pakistan, he was appointed Chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority. In that role, he was responsible for the completion of the Mangla Dam Project. In March 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and then a year later he became Finance Secretary, a post he held for over three years until his elevation as Secretary General. After the power struggle triggered by General Yahya Khan's general election, Zulfikar Bhutto became the new leader of Pakistan. In 1973, Kazi became Secretary General Finance and Economic Coordination. When Ghulam Ishaq Khan became Finance Minister, Kazi was appointed Economic Advisor to the President in July 1977. In 1978, Kazi was appointed as Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government. Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. As a leading civil servant, Kazi passed through several major events in the history of Pakistan, including the removal of Bhutto and the mysterious death of General Zia-ul-Haq. In 1993, he was appointed as the chairman Privatization Commission and was again given the status of a Federal Minister as Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. In 1994, Kazi retired from office, at the age of 75, and led a quiet retired life in Islamabad. He died on 9 August 2016 after a prolonged illness. At his death, he was among the last living members of the old Indian Civil Service. Early life Kazi was born into a Sindhi, working-class family consisting of his father Khan Bahadur Ghulam Nabi Kazi, an educationist, and his sibling Bashir Ghulam Nabi Kazi would later go on to become a senior Judge at the Sindh High Court and later the Federal Shariat Court. The family originated from Sindh, Bombay Presidency, British Indian Empire. His father was a veteran educationist of Sindh who had been awarded the MBE by the British Government for his services to humanity and social development. On the separation of Sindh from Bombay, Khan Bahadur Ghulam Nabi Kazi was appointed the first Director of Public Instructions Sindh in 1936. Kazi received his education in Jamshoro, Sindh, and went on to attend the Cathedral and John Connon School in 1930. Education and academia After graduating from school, Kazi attended the University of Bombay from 1937. He gruadted with a BS in Statistics in 1941, and later went on to gain MSc in Physics and MA in Mathematics from the University of Bombay. He competed in the Indian Civil Service examination from there in 1944. Before joining the civil service, Kazi worked in the Department of Mathematics of D. J. Science College, teaching courses in Mathematics and Statistics. In 1944, he was one of the three Muslims selected for the Indian Civil Service, the others being Agha Shahi and Mian Riazuddin Ahmed. Thus, Kazi started a career that would last for half a century making him the longest serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. Civil Service in India The British Raj appointed Kazi as Deputy Commissioner in Bihar and Orissa where he served until 1947. He was asked by the British Government to stay in India, but he opted for Pakistan after partition in 1947. He arrived in his home town and joined the Government of Sindh, holding pivotal positions such as Secretary to Governor and Secretary Finance. Senior offices held After the amalgamation of all provinces in the western wing of the country in 1955, Kazi was appointed Finance Secretary of West Pakistan. In the early 1960s he was posted as Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy in Washington DC USA where he served until 1965. On his return to Pakistan, he was appointed for a brief period as Additional Chief Secretary (Planning nd Development) West Pakistan and thereafter as Chairman of Pakistan's Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). It was during his tenure as chairman WAPDA that the Mangla Dam was inaugurated and on this occasion he was awarded the high civil award of Sitara-e-Pakistan. Previously he had also been awarded the Sitara-e-Khidmat. In 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and a year later as Finance Secretary of the Government of Pakistan. He held this office during the crisis of 1971. In this capacity, he was also Chairman of the Federal Board of Revenue. In 1973, Kazi was assigned the highest grade in the civil service and made Secretary General, Finance and Economic Coordination in which capacity he had to supervise the working of all the economic and planning ministries of the government. He was appointed Advisor to the President on Economic Affairs in 1977 with the rank of a full Cabinet Minister on the imposition of martial law in July 1977. Thereafter he was appointed Governor of State Bank of Pakistan in 1978. He served there for eight years and this period was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the federal government. During his tenure as Secretary General Finance, Kazi became involved in securing Pakistan's nuclear capability, along with Agha Shahi and Ghulam Ishaq Khan; the three constituting the co-ordination board to monitor the nuclear program. In 1986, he was appointed Deputy chairman Planning Commission., in which position he remained until 1993 until his induction as the chairman Privatisation Commission. In 1993 he was again given the status of a Federal Minister as chairman/Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. Retirement and death In 1994, Kazi retired after 50 years of service. He lived in Islamabad with his wife Zakia, who died in 2009. They had two children. He died in Islamabad on 9 August 2016.


--- [Ex-SBP chief Kazi dies - Pakistan - DAWN.COM] ---
KARACHI: Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi, a bureaucrat who headed the State Bank and designed a formula for water distribution among the provinces, died in Islamabad after a long illness. He was 97. Mr Kazi, better known as AGN Kazi, started his career during the British era and held important positions for decades after the creation of Pakistan. His career in civil service spanned almost 50 years. Born into a family of educationists in 1919, Mr Kazi received his early education in Jamshoro, graduating from the Cathedral and John Connon School. He then went to Mumbai for higher studies, entering the University of Bombay in 1937. AGN Kazi then took the Indian Civil Service examination in 1944 and was among the three Muslims who came through the tough process. The other two were Agha Shahi and Mian Riazuddin Ahmed. After joining ICS, he served in the Indian states of Bihar and Orissa. He then joined the Sindh government and went on to hold key positions. After the formation of One Unit in 1955, he was made finance secretary for West Pakistan. Among the top positions in which he served the country during a long, illustrious career were Wapda chairman, secretary general of the Finance Division, chairman of the Federal Board of Revenue, State Bank Governor (1978-86) and deputy chairman of the Planning Commission. He will be best remembered for thrashing out a formula for allocation of federal funds to the provinces and assessment of royalty due to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa for power generated by the Tarbela Dam. He was appointed adviser to the president on economic affairs after Gen Ziaul Haq imposed martial law in 1977. Along with Agha Shahi and Ghulam Ishaq Khan, Mr Kazi was a member of the coordination board set up to monitor the country’s nuclear programme. AGN Kazi was decorated with the awards of Sitara-i-Pakistan and Sitara-i-Khidmat. He is survived by a daughter and a son. Published in Dawn, August 10th, 2016


--- [State Bank of Pakistan - sbp.org.pk] ---
| Nov | DEC | Jan | | 03 | || | 2023 | 2024 | 2025 | History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [List of Governors of The State Bank of Pakistan - Wikipedia | PDF] ---
Skip to main content Open navigation menu Close suggestions Search Search en Change Language Upload Sign in Sign in 100% (1) 100% found this document useful (1 vote) 3K views 2 pages List of Governors of The State Bank of Pakistan - Wikipedia Document Information Uploaded by saithimranadnan AI-enhanced title Download Save Save List of governors of the State Bank of Pakistan - ... For Later Share 100% 100% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Ask AI Report 100% (1) 100% found this document useful (1 vote) 3K views 2 pages List of Governors of The State Bank of Pakistan - Wikipedia Read more Download 100% (1) 100% found this document useful (1 vote) 3K views 2 pages List of Governors of The State Bank of Pakistan - Wikipedia Document Information Uploaded by saithimranadnan AI-enhanced title Go to previous items Go to next items Download Save Save List of governors of the State Bank of Pakistan - ... For Later Share 100% 100% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Ask AI Report Download Save List of governors of the State Bank of Pakistan - ... For Later Search Fullscreen You are on page 1 2 Share this document Share on Facebook, opens a new window Share on LinkedIn, opens a new window Share with Email, opens mail client Copy link Millions of documents at your fingertips, ad-free Subscribe with a free trial 576648e32a3d8b82ca71961b7a986505
