=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sesshū Tōyō - Wikipedia]
Sesshū Tōyō was born in Akahama (now Sōja City), a settlement in Bitchū Province, which is now a part of the Okayama Prefecture, during the Muromachi period. [4] As a child, Sesshū entered the Buddhist community at the Hofukuji temple in Okayama, Japan. [6] Little is known about Sesshū's early life, but there is a well-known tale that, whilst at Hofukuji Temple, Sesshū's instructor was ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sessh%C5%AB_T%C5%8Dy%C5%8D

[Top 10 Amazing Facts about Sesshū Tōyō - Discover Walks]
Jun 24, 2022 · Let’s take you through the top 10 Amazing Facts about Sesshū Tōyō: 1. Sesshu Entered Buddhist Community as a Child At a very tender age, Sesshu Toyo entered the Buddhist community at Hofukuji temple in Okayama, Japan. Not much is known nor explained about the earlier life of Sesshu Toyo.
URL: https://www.discoverwalks.com/blog/tokyo/top-10-amazing-facts-about-sesshu-toyo/

[Sesshū Tōyō - Wikiwand]
Early life Sesshū Tōyō was born in Akahama (Soja City), a settlement in Bitchū Province, which is now a part of the Okayama Prefecture, during the Muromachi period. [3] As a child, Sesshū entered the Buddhist community at the Hofukuji temple in Okayama, Japan. [5]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Sesshu

[Sesshu Toyoー - Masuda City Tourist Information Center]
At an early age his father sent him to the Hojukuji temple near their home, to train as a monk, the cultural centers of Japan were Zen Buddhist monasteries. It is said that, instead of practicing the sutra chants, he spent almost all of his time drawing. His boyhood legends suggest that he already evinced a precocious artistic bent.
URL: https://masudashi.com/en/sesshutoyo-miyamoto4.html

[Sesshū Tōyō : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive]
Feb 2, 2019 · The legend of how Sesshū Tōyō painted a mouse with his tears. "One famous story takes place in a Zen temple called Hofuku-ji in what is now Soja City in Okayama Prefecture. The young Sesshu entered the temple as a child to become a Zen monk, but he is said to have ignored his training and instead spent his days on his favorite activity, painting. One morning, the head priest, who became ...
URL: https://archive.org/details/SesshuHabokuSansui


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sesshū Tōyō - Wikipedia] ---
Sesshū Tōyō (雪舟 等楊; c. 1420 – August 26, 1506), also known simply as Sesshū (雪舟; Japanese pronunciation: [seꜜɕ.ɕɯː]), was a Japanese Zen monk and painter who is considered a great master of Japanese ink painting. Initially inspired by Chinese landscapes, Sesshū's work holds a distinctively Japanese style that reflects Zen Buddhist aesthetics. His prominent work captured images of landscapes, portraits, birds and flowers paintings, infused with Zen Buddhist beliefs, flattened perspective, and emphatic lines.
Sesshū was born into the samurai Oda family (小田家) and trained at Shōkoku-ji temple in Kyoto, Japan, as a Zen monk. From his early childhood, Sesshū showed a talent for painting and eventually became widely revered throughout Japan as a wise, reputable Zen scholar, and the greatest painter priest of Zen-Shu.
Sesshū worked in a painting atelier whilst training under Tenshō Shūbun (c. 1418–1463). But upon visiting China, his work took on a distinctive Chinese influence, merging Japanese and Chinese styles to develop his individualistic style of Zen paintings. Sesshū's influence on painting was so wide that many schools of art appointed him their founder. Sesshū's most acclaimed works are Winter Landscape (c. 1470s), Birds and Flowers (1420–1506) and Four Landscape Scrolls of the Seasons (1420–1506).


--- [Top 10 Amazing Facts about Sesshū Tōyō - Discover Walks] ---
Top 10 Amazing Facts about Sesshū Tōyō Sesshu Toyo is regarded as one of the greatest painters in Japanese history. He was born in 1420 into the samurai Oda family. He was born in Akahama which is also known as Soja City. This was a settlement in Bitchu province that is part of the current Okayama Prefecture. Sesshu trained at the Shokoku-Ji temple in Kyoto, Japan as a Zen monk. He was also a Zen-Shu priest painter during the Muromachi period. He was prominently known for his black ink painting. Sesshu was initially inspired by the Chinese landscape, but his work holds a distinctively Japanese style of Zen Buddhist aesthetics. The work and paintings of Sesshu Toyo captured the landscapes, portraits, birds and flowers which were infused into their beliefs. The influence of Sesshu on painting was wider in that some schools of art appointed him as their founder. His most acclaimed works include Winter Landscape, Birds and Flowers, and Four Landscape Scrolls of the Seasons. Let’s take you through the top 10 Amazing Facts about Sesshū Tōyō: 1. Sesshu Entered Buddhist Community as a Child At a very tender age, Sesshu Toyo entered the Buddhist community at Hofukuji temple in Okayama, Japan. Not much is known nor explained about the earlier life of Sesshu Toyo. At the Hofukuji temple, Sesshu Toyo discovered his talent in painting which was nourished and became a great personality. 2. Sesshu was Punished, Tied to Post and Set Free by a Mouse Drawing After joining the Hofukuji temple, Sesshu Toyo was not among the most disciplined young lads. At one time, Sesshu’s instructor was forced to punish him. The punishment Sesshu received was getting tied to a temple post for some hours. While still tied to the post, Sesshu was crying and decided to use the tears as ink and draw a mouse on the wooden floor. Surprisingly, the mouse sprung to life and set him free by gnawing the tight ropes. 3. Sesshu Became a Zen Monk at the Age of Twelve After this incident at Hofukuji Temple, Sesshu decided to enter the Shokoku-Ji temple in Kyoto at the age of twelve. He entered as an acolyte under Shunrin Shuto, the head priest of all Zen temples. Sesshu, later on, became a Zen monk at a very tender age. At this temple, Sesshu became a pupil of a highly regarded Japanese first great ink landscape painting master Tensho Shubun. This was where Sesshu was given the freedom of concentrating on painting rather than the monastic and political duties. 4. Sesshu Funded by a Wealthy Warrior Clan to Travel to China to Explore and Learn While at Shokoku-Ji temple, Sesshu Toyo continued with his progress in learning how to paint. At one point, he was funded by a wealthy warrior clan to join a Japanese envoy in China. He travelled to China in 1467 and spent three years there. Sesshu explored the Chan monasteries, and landscapes and studied professional artists’ paintings of the Chinese. The study of the Chinese landscape and professional artists’ paintings gave him perfect skills to sharpen his skills. 5. Sesshu’s Individualistic Style got Influenced by Chinese Landscape and Artists While in China for three years with the Japanese envoy, Sesshu Toyo discovered a lot and got more influence from the Chinese culture. He learned more about traditional Chinese paintings and their realistic styles. With the vast feeling of nature and reference to Chinese ink painting, Sesshū’s individualistic style got involved. He became sharper than how he used to be when he worked under Shūbun. What made him succeed more is his familiarity with the Chinese landscapes. 6. Sesshu Returned to Japan and Created Spiritual Gardens It seemed like Sesshu Toyo lived most of his life in China where he found their influence more positive than in Japan. However, he had to return to his homeland where he made several notable changes. After three years, Sesshu visited Masuda in Japan where he studied Zen while still painting. He also created the spiritual gardens called Sesshū’s gardens. 7. Sesshu Predominantly used Water and Ink in his Paintings Sesshu Toyo was unique in what he used to make his paintings perfectly. His works were predominantly based on using water and ink to paint. While making his paintings in diluted greys and blank ink, Sesshu used black Sumi (charcoal or soot-based solid ink on paper or silk). This made his paintings unique and was followed by his students who learnt about this technique which is studied by suibokuga artists. 8. Sesshu’s Most Acclaimed Works that Portrayed Zen Beliefs Even though much of Sesshu Toyo’s artwork was influenced by the Chinese culture, he ensured that he maintained the originality of Japanese. His most acclaimed works included the Winter Landscape, Four Landscape and Birds and Flowers. These three artworks demonstrated the style of flattened space, emphatic outlines and angular brushstrokes. Most importantly, they managed to portray the Zen beliefs rather than being fully influenced by the Chinese artists’ work. The Four Landscape Scrolls were safely preserved and kept at the Tokyo National Museum with an inscription honouring Sesshu Toyo. 9. Sesshu was Honoured at the Imperial Court in Beijing The three years that Sesshu Toyo spent in China were a huge success for himself and his artwork. He sharpened his skills which got him more recognition across China. At some point in his three years stay in China, Sesshu Toyo was honoured at the imperial court in Beijing. He was also honoured at the most celebrated Chan monastery in China. 10. Sesshu’s Death and Legacies he left After his last visit to Japan from China, Sesshu Toyo did not live that long. It is believed that Sesshu Toyo died in 1506 at the age of 87. Sesshu died at Tokoji temple and his remains were taken to Ikoji temple which was later on known as Sesshu temple. He was cremated, but several other temples across Japan report that his remains were kept there. His immediate pupil, Shutoku inherited one of his studios and continued with his legacies. Most of his legacies went on till the 16th century as the pupils kept on passing his teachings. Sesshu Toyo will always be regarded as the best artist in painting across Japan and his legacies are always acknowledged. Planning a trip to Paris ? Get ready ! These are Amazon’s best-selling travel products that you may need for coming to Paris. Bookstore - The best travel book : Rick Steves – Paris 2023 – Learn more here - Fodor’s Paris 2024 – Learn more here Travel Gear - Venture Pal Lightweight Backpack – Learn more here - Samsonite Winfield 2 28″ Luggage – Learn more here - Swig Savvy’s Stainless Steel Insulated Water Bottle – Learn more here Check Amazon’s best-seller list for the most popular travel accessories. We sometimes read this list just to find out what new travel products people are buying.


--- [Sesshū Tōyō - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Sesshu Toyoー - Masuda City Tourist Information Center] ---
Mail:info2@masudashi.com 〒698-0024 17-2 Ekimae-cho Masuda-shi Shimane Japan Kiyoshi Miyamoto (The Former Curator of Sesshu Memorial Museum) Kyoto National Museum (Kyoto) View of Ama no Hashidate Hanging scroll, No signature; no seal, Ink and slight color on paper, 90.0 × 178.2cm Two scrolls, Signature “Sesshu” Herdsmen and Water Buffaloes, after the manner of Li T’ang Two scrolls, Signature “Sesshu” Painted in ink with slight coloring on paper 31.5 × 33.5cm Kyoto Landscape of Four Seasons Hanging scroll, Seal-mark “Sesshu”Painted in ink on paper 21.5 × 1151.5cm Private Collection Bishamonten (Vaisravana, Buddhist guardian god) Hanging scroll Signature “Painted by Sesshu” Seal-mark “Toyo” Painted in ink on paper 113.6 × 38.9cm Other famous paintings Tokyo Plum-tree Signature “Painted by Sesshu Hanging scroll followed by seal-mark style signature Painted in ink on paper90.9 × 40.5cm Maeda Ikutokukai Foundation ( Flower-and –birds Signature “Painted by Sesshu at the age of 71”Pair of six-fold screens Seal-mark “Sesshu”In colors on paper158.2 × 355.0cm (A traveler from “ I enjoyed visiting Sesshu Memorial Hall and particularly appreciated Sesshu’s landscapes which are known well all over the world. Some priests in (A teacher from the “Sesshu’s art wonderfully represents the beauty of (An assistant English teacher from “To be honest, I had never heard of the name Sesshu Toyo until I visited some friends in this Masuda. While we were at their house, we heard the very interesting tale of Sesshu and the mouse. As a result, we all came to visit this memorial hall.When you enter the building there is a very tranquil, peaceful atmosphere that perhaps enhances Sesshu’s art, and adds a very special ‘Zen’ spirit. The overall effect was very refreshing. My only disappointment was that the picture of the mouse was not on exhibition!” (An American professor at a Women’s College) “My first impression of Sesshu’s work-even without knowing his history- was that it is very Zen. The simplicity of his use of line and color to depict nature is wonderful. This museum, and especially the garden, is a good place for contemplation. I thoroughly enjoyed looking at his works.” (A landscape gardener from Germay) “For me as landscape gardener, Sesshu is very interesting. European Art is full of color, but Sesshu mostly used just ink. And with a few strokes he can move the heart more than most European pictures. He must have had a close relationship to nature. You can also see it in his garden. I love the dry Japanese gardens that do not use water and express landscapes only with rocks and the sand. “


--- [Sesshū Tōyō : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive] ---
Sesshū Tōyō Item Preview Share or Embed This Item Sesshū Tōyō - Topics - Sesshū Tōyō, Art, Japan - Item Size - 35.1M The legend of how Sesshū Tōyō painted a mouse with his tears. "One famous story takes place in a Zen temple called Hofuku-ji in what is now Soja City in Okayama Prefecture. The young Sesshu entered the temple as a child to become a Zen monk, but he is said to have ignored his training and instead spent his days on his favorite activity, painting. One morning, the head priest, who became angry at him, tied him to a pillar in the temple. But after a while, the priest felt a bit sorry for Sesshu, so he peeked into the temple, where he saw a big mouse moving around the boy's feet. Thinking it would be terrible if Sesshu were bitten by the mouse, the priest tried to chase the mouse away, but oddly enough, the mouse showed no signs of running away. This was because the mouse was not a real mouse, but one that Sesshu drew in the alcove with his tears as paint and his big toe as a brush. At first glance, the priest thought the mouse was moving because it was painted so realistically, as if it were alive. From then on, the priest never admonished Sesshu for painting. This story first appeared in a book called Honchogashi (a biographic record of Japanese painters), which was compiled in the early Edo period (1615-1868) by the painter Kano Eino (1631-1697). The story must have already been quite well known that it came to be included in this book. However, if you're asking whether or not this story about the mouse painted with tears is true, unfortunately, the answer would be no. Let's think about it. No matter how skilled one is at painting, there is no way one could paint a mouse so realistically with their tears—much less using their foot—that it would look as if it were moving around. The idea that a great artist like Sesshu must have demonstrated amazing skill even in his youth perhaps gave rise to a story like this. In this way, the story of how Sesshu painted a mouse with his tears is merely fiction. But, as I explained, many older Japanese know the name Sesshu because of this anecdote. In this respect, this fictional story made Sesshu's name incredibly popular and perhaps contributed to his fame. Moreover, because its contents deal with Sesshu's childhood, one can imagine him as a cute little monk—comparable to the famous young Zen monk Ikkyu (though the young Sesshu may not have had his head shaven at that point yet). Although he is considered to be a great artist, unlike other famous painters, perhaps there is a sense of familiarity towards him because of this." ~ by Hideo Yamamoto - Addeddate - 2019-02-02 10:02:53 - Identifier - SesshuHabokuSansui - Scanner - Internet Archive HTML5 Uploader 1.6.3 comment Reviews 4,840 Views 5 Favorites DOWNLOAD OPTIONS IN COLLECTIONS Fine Art HistoryUploaded by vbera on
