=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Václav Hlavatý - Wikipedia]
Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech - American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%A1clav_Hlavat%C3%BD

[Dr Vaclav Hlavaty (1894-1969) - Find a Grave Memorial]
IU Czech Mathematician Who Solved Einstein's Unified Field Theory Equations Václav Hlavatý was a world famous Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/124922063/vaclav-hlavaty

[Václav Hlavatý, Ph.D (1894 - 1969) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Apr 29, 2022 · About Václav Hlavatý, Ph.D Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/V%C3%A1clav-Hlavat%C3%BD-Ph-D/6000000036409881833

[Václav Hlavatý - EncycloReader]
Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. [1] In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of ...
URL: https://encycloreader.org/r/view.php?p=wikipedia&t=V%C3%A1clav_Hlavat%C3%BD

[Václav Hlavatý - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 28, 2024 · Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953 ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/V%C3%A1clav-Hlavat%C3%BD


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Václav Hlavatý - Wikipedia] ---
Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject.  In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953. Einstein himself was reported to have said that if anyone could solve the equations it would be Professor Hlavatý, which proved to be the case.
He was born in Louny, Bohemia (now in the Czech Republic) and died in Bloomington, Indiana. He obtained his PhD in 1921 at the Charles University in Prague and during World War II participated in the Prague uprising, but his academic career was mainly at Indiana University, which he joined in 1948, and where he became Professor, later Emeritus, of Mathematics. A special book of mathematical essays was published in his honour. In 1958, he became the first President of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences established in Washington DC by intellectuals of Czech and Slovak origin.
He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and in 1936 in Oslo.
In 1931 he married Olga Neumannova, and they had a daughter, Olga.


--- [Dr Vaclav Hlavaty (1894-1969) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
IU Czech Mathematician Who Solved Einstein's Unified Field Theory Equations Václav Hlavatý was a world famous Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953. Einstein himself was reported to have said that if anyone could solve the equations it would be Professor Hlavatý, which proved to be the case. He was born in Louny, Bohemia (now in the Czech Republic) and died in Bloomington, Indiana. He obtained his PhD in 1921 at the Charles University in Prague and during World War II participated in the Prague uprising, but his academic career was mainly at Indiana University, which he joined in 1948, and where he became Professor, later Emeritus, of Mathematics. A special book of mathematical essays was published in his honor. In 1958, he became the first President of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences established in Washington DC by intellectuals of Czech and Slovak origin. He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and in 1936 in Oslo. In 1931 he married Olga Neumannova, and they had a daughter, Olga. ** Vaclav Hlavaty, 74, world-famous mathematician and distinguished service professor-emeritus at Indiana University, was found dead in his home Saturday. Bloomington (IN) Herald-Telephone, Jan 14,1969 Thanks to Find-a-Grave contributor #48130353 _______ Dr. Vaclav Hlavaty, I.U. Math Expert, Dies STAR STATE REPORT Bloomington, Ind . -- Dr. Vaclav Hlavaty, 74 years old, Bloomington, one of the world's foremost mathematicians and a Distinguished Professor Emeritus at Indiana University, was found dead in his home late Saturday. Prof. Hlavaty was a world-renowned expert on relativity and was best known for his brilliant mathematical solution of Einstein's Unified Field Theory. A NATIVE of Czechoslovakia, he was elected a member of the Czech parliament in 1946 and left the country when the Communists took over. He was an exchange professor at the Sorbonne in Paris before coming to I.U. in the fall of 1948. In 1950, already established as a leading authority on many - dimensional geometry, Prof. Hlavaty turned his attention to relativity. Einstein had made public a set of equations for a Unified Field Theory to explain the workings of the universe in one set of laws. He proposed these equations without mathematical solution, describing them himself as "a groping in the dark." SOLUTION OF the equations was termed "next to Impossible," but Dr. Hlavaty was able to accomplish the feat, a tremendous intellectual exercise involving 64 unknowns. Dr. Hlavaty attended Charles University in Prague, where he received the Ph.D. degree. He also attended the Technical University, Delft, Netherlands; the Sorbonne, Paris; the University of Rome, and Oxford University. He was a professor of mathematics at Charles University 1925-48, and visiting professor at Princeton University and member of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, 1937-38. PROF. HLAVATY became the first president of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences in America when it was organized in 1956, and held this post again from 1966 to 1968. He was the author of numerous articles and books in the field of differential geometry, and of "The Geometry of Einstein's Unified Field Theory," published in Holland in 1958. He, was a member of the American Mathematical Society, the International Free Academy of Sciences and Letters of Paris, France; the Indiana Academy of Science, and Sigma Xi Fraternity. He also was a member of the National Academy of Sciences in Prague and the Royal Society of Sciences in Bucharest before Czechoslovakia and Romania became Communist dominated. Dr. Hlavaty was a co-editor of the mathematical journal "Tensor," published in Japan, and of "Reconditli de Sircolo Mathematics,", published in Italy. IN 1961, on sabbatical leave from Indiana University, he made a seven-months, around-the-world tour to 19 cities in 14 countries, delivering 60 lectures in English, French and Italian on relativity, the Unified Field Theory, and geometry. Dr. Hlavaty's wife, Mrs. Olga Hlavaty, died in 1967. He is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Baki Yusufzai, whose husband is an I.U. graduate and is now a government official in Kabul, Afghanistan, and four grandchildren. Funeral arrangements are pending. The Indianapolis Star Indianapolis, Indiana _____________ Indiana Death Certificate #69-006734 Name: Vacliv Hlavaty Sex : Male Race: White Age: 74 years Marital Status: Widowed Occupation: Professor of Mathmatics: Indiana University Birth Date: January 27, 1894 Birth Place: Czechoslovakia Death Date: January 11, 1969 Cause of Death: Barbituate Intoxication; Depressed for months. Suicide. Death Place: Bloomington, Monroe County, Indiana Father: Unknown Mother: Unknown Informant: Samuel Sirois (Executor) Burial: Crown Hill Crematory, Indianapolis, Indiana Death Registration Date: 1969 Monday, January 13, 1969, p. 1 . IU Czech Mathematician Who Solved Einstein's Unified Field Theory Equations Václav Hlavatý was a world famous Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953. Einstein himself was reported to have said that if anyone could solve the equations it would be Professor Hlavatý, which proved to be the case. He was born in Louny, Bohemia (now in the Czech Republic) and died in Bloomington, Indiana. He obtained his PhD in 1921 at the Charles University in Prague and during World War II participated in the Prague uprising, but his academic career was mainly at Indiana University, which he joined in 1948, and where he became Professor, later Emeritus, of Mathematics. A special book of mathematical essays was published in his honor. In 1958, he became the first President of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences established in Washington DC by intellectuals of Czech and Slovak origin. He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and in 1936 in Oslo. In 1931 he married Olga Neumannova, and they had a daughter, Olga. ** Vaclav Hlavaty, 74, world-famous mathematician and distinguished service professor-emeritus at Indiana University, was found dead in his home Saturday. Bloomington (IN) Herald-Telephone, Jan 14,1969 Thanks to Find-a-Grave contributor #48130353 _______ Dr. Vaclav Hlavaty, I.U. Math Expert, Dies STAR STATE REPORT Bloomington, Ind . -- Dr. Vaclav Hlavaty, 74 years old, Bloomington, one of the world's foremost mathematicians and a Distinguished Professor Emeritus at Indiana University, was found dead in his home late Saturday. Prof. Hlavaty was a world-renowned expert on relativity and was best known for his brilliant mathematical solution of Einstein's Unified Field Theory. A NATIVE of Czechoslovakia, he was elected a member of the Czech parliament in 1946 and left the country when the Communists took over. He was an exchange professor at the Sorbonne in Paris before coming to I.U. in the fall of 1948. In 1950, already established as a leading authority on many - dimensional geometry, Prof. Hlavaty turned his attention to relativity. Einstein had made public a set of equations for a Unified Field Theory to explain the workings of the universe in one set of laws. He proposed these equations without mathematical solution, describing them himself as "a groping in the dark." SOLUTION OF the equations was termed "next to Impossible," but Dr. Hlavaty was able to accomplish the feat, a tremendous intellectual exercise involving 64 unknowns. Dr. Hlavaty attended Charles University in Prague, where he received the Ph.D. degree. He also attended the Technical University, Delft, Netherlands; the Sorbonne, Paris; the University of Rome, and Oxford University. He was a professor of mathematics at Charles University 1925-48, and visiting professor at Princeton University and member of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, 1937-38. PROF. HLAVATY became the first president of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences in America when it was organized in 1956, and held this post again from 1966 to 1968. He was the author of numerous articles and books in the field of differential geometry, and of "The Geometry of Einstein's Unified Field Theory," published in Holland in 1958. He, was a member of the American Mathematical Society, the International Free Academy of Sciences and Letters of Paris, France; the Indiana Academy of Science, and Sigma Xi Fraternity. He also was a member of the National Academy of Sciences in Prague and the Royal Society of Sciences in Bucharest before Czechoslovakia and Romania became Communist dominated. Dr. Hlavaty was a co-editor of the mathematical journal "Tensor," published in Japan, and of "Reconditli de Sircolo Mathematics,", published in Italy. IN 1961, on sabbatical leave from Indiana University, he made a seven-months, around-the-world tour to 19 cities in 14 countries, delivering 60 lectures in English, French and Italian on relativity, the Unified Field Theory, and geometry. Dr. Hlavaty's wife, Mrs. Olga Hlavaty, died in 1967. He is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Baki Yusufzai, whose husband is an I.U. graduate and is now a government official in Kabul, Afghanistan, and four grandchildren. Funeral arrangements are pending. The Indianapolis Star Indianapolis, Indiana _____________ Indiana Death Certificate #69-006734 Name: Vacliv Hlavaty Sex : Male Race: White Age: 74 years Marital Status: Widowed Occupation: Professor of Mathmatics: Indiana University Birth Date: January 27, 1894 Birth Place: Czechoslovakia Death Date: January 11, 1969 Cause of Death: Barbituate Intoxication; Depressed for months. Suicide. Death Place: Bloomington, Monroe County, Indiana Father: Unknown Mother: Unknown Informant: Samuel Sirois (Executor) Burial: Crown Hill Crematory, Indianapolis, Indiana Death Registration Date: 1969 Monday, January 13, 1969, p. 1 . Family Members Sponsored by Ancestry


--- [Václav Hlavatý, Ph.D (1894 - 1969) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
No content


--- [Václav Hlavatý - EncycloReader] ---
Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject.[1] In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953.[2] Einstein himself was reported to have said that if anyone could solve the equations it would be Professor Hlavatý, which proved to be the case.[3] He was born in Louny, Bohemia (now in the Czech Republic) and died in Bloomington, Indiana. He obtained his PhD in 1921 at the Charles University in Prague[4][5] and during World War II participated in the Prague uprising,[3] but his academic career was mainly at Indiana University, which he joined in 1948, and where he became Professor, later Emeritus, of Mathematics. A special book of mathematical essays was published in his honour.[6] In 1958, he became the first President of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences[7] established in Washington DC by intellectuals of Czech and Slovak origin. He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and in 1936 in Oslo. In 1931 he married Olga Neumannova, and they had a daughter, Olga.[4]


--- [Václav Hlavatý - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Vaclav Hlavaty | Role Mathematician | | Education | Václav Hlavatý (27 January 1894 – 11 January 1969) was a noted Czech-American mathematician, who wrote on the theory of relativity and corresponded extensively with Albert Einstein on the subject. In particular, Hlavatý solved some very difficult equations relating to Einstein's Unified field theory, which was featured in the news media as one of the great scientific achievements of 1953. Einstein himself was reported to have said that if anyone could solve the equations it would be Professor Hlavatý, which proved to be the case. He was born in Louny, Bohemia (now in the Czech Republic) and died in Bloomington, Indiana. He obtained his PhD in 1921 at the Charles University in Prague and during World War II participated in the Prague uprising, but his academic career was mainly at Indiana University, which he joined in 1948, and where he became Professor, later Emeritus, of Mathematics. A special book of mathematical essays was published in his honour. He was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1928 in Bologna and in 1936 in Oslo. In 1931 he married Olga Neumannova, and they had a daughter, Olga.
