=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vikings: The Profit and the Loss Review - Den of Geek]
Apr 1, 2016 · This Vikings review contains spoilers. Vikings Season 4 Episode 7 After several weeks of more introspective episodes, Vikings returns to its roots as the Northmen return to Frankia despite Ragnar ...
URL: https://www.denofgeek.com/tv/vikings-the-profit-and-the-loss-review/

[Season 4 Episode 7 "The Profit and the Loss" Episode Discussion : r/vikingstv]
Season 4 Episode 7 "The Profit and the Loss" Episode Discussion ... "When everyone wanted you dead, I kept you alive. Is this how you ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/vikingstv/comments/4ctb3g/season_4_episode_7_the_profit_and_the_loss/

[s04e07 - The Profit and the Loss - Vikings Transcript - TvT]
Mar 31, 2016 · They're safer with me than they were the last time with you.
URL: https://tvshowtranscripts.ourboard.org/viewtopic.php?t=26350

[[Spoilers] Favorite scene of the entire show? : r/vikingstv]
I can't remember the season/episode but it was when the vikings agreed to help Kwenthrith fight against her uncle and brother for Mercia. The viking ship comes sailing up with all of these heads dangling from it and Ragnar has this goofy smile on his face.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/vikingstv/comments/7j36w7/spoilers_favorite_scene_of_the_entire_show/

['Vikings' Season 4 Spoilers: Ragnar And Rollo Go Head-To-Head In Epic ...]
Mar 31, 2016 — ... Season 4 installment, titled “The Profit and the Loss.” But it's ... “When everyone wanted you dead I kept you alive. And this is how ...
URL: https://www.ibtimes.com/vikings-season-4-spoilers-ragnar-rollo-go-head-head-epic-episode-7-battle-recap-2346597


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vikings: The Profit and the Loss Review - Den of Geek] ---
Vikings: The Profit and the Loss Review Ragnar’s power and mind seemingly hang by a thread after Rollo and the Franks deal him a terrible blow. This Vikings review contains spoilers. Vikings Season 4 Episode 7 After several weeks of more introspective episodes, Vikings returns to its roots as the Northmen return to Frankia despite Ragnar’s loss of enthusiasm, and we finally receive the battle scenes that drive the show. Unfortunately, Ragnar grossly underestimates Rollo’s military acumen, and the initial attack takes us back to the first time they attempted to lay waste to Charles’ kingdom. For the first twenty minutes of “The Profit and the Loss,” all hell breaks loose as Rollo apparently anticipates each of his brother’s tactics, leaving Ragnar looking helpless and confused as the second battle for Paris begins. In a reversal of fortune Rollo now proudly peers over the burning forward ships of the Norse fleet, but there’s something about the look on his face that makes us wonder how long he can watch his brother, his friends, and his former compatriots suffer. Does his resentment run that deep? What stands out loud and clear is that Ragnar has lost his mojo, whether through injury, illness, or Yidu’s medicine really doesn’t matter, but his leadership role is rife for the taking. Will it be Bjorn who’s about the same age Ragnar was when he began his ascension to power? Will Harald swoop in and sway the troops with his rhetoric and bold behavior? Or is Lagertha perhaps the wild card in this moment of disarray? Regardless, something must be done, and it must be done quickly or Rollo and the Franks will achieve their day of reckoning. Bjorn sternly confronts his father because it’s been three days since the attack and no plans have been made, but Ragnar is clearly losing it. Though she initially rebuffs Ragnar’s request for more of the medicine, Yidu eventually gives in to his demands. At first it seemed he was using to gain introspection, but now his desire for the medicine appears to be to dull the emotional pain of defeat at his brother’s hands and avoid making the difficult decisions every leader faces. Does Yidu have an ulterior motive? Does she continue to give Ragnar these drugs with a purpose? As Bjorn organizes the reversal of the fleet which includes rescuing those in the water, Ragnar shouts to his self-satisfied brother, “When everyone wanted you dead, I kept you alive. This is how you repay my love.” The delusions of a madman? At the same time the wanderer Harbard has returned to Kattegat and initiates contact with Aslaug, and even though she tells him that Ragnar is punishing her for the last time he stopped in the village, she gives in anyway. However, the ever watchful Sigrud observes them, and we can only wonder what tales he will tell when the men return. While belief in the gods has always played a role in daily life, we’re shown more and more scenes that cannot be easily explained. Most puzzling of all is the sex scene with Floki and Aslaug. On the one hand we might consider that Floki is dealing with the fact that Ragnar saved his life by pulling him out of the water during the attack. Though gratitude might be the expected response, this is Floki we’re talking about, so having sex with the wife of your sworn enemy doesn’t seem out of the question. But then Floki morphs into Harbard with Aslaug. Through whose eyes are we seeing this and for what purpose? Called to a meeting in a remote cave, Ecbert meets with Prince Wistan of Mercia who offers him a deal by which Essex’s king will be given the kingdom of Mercia if he sides with Wistan in overthrowing the council. Acknowledging that the Mercian royal family is unfit to rule, Wistan plans a pilgrimage to Rome as a beggar. He especially thinks Kwenthrith unfit, and though he’s sworn to return Kwenthrith to her seat of power, this will give Ecbert a strong enough kingdom to fight off the Northmen and any other threats. And for all his religious meanderings, Ecbert is as ruthless as they come. Will this tip the scales in his favor? Because we’ve invested so much in these characters, it’s easy to forget that for the most part they are brutal warriors with only their own self-interests in mind. We understand Rollo, the quintessential overshadowed brother, and his quest to gain recognition on his own. As the Duke of Normandy it seems he may have achieved his goal but at what cost? At first, it appeared that Lagertha’s telling Kalf she is pregnant might be a ruse to keep him off guard, but now even Ragnar recognizes that his ex-wife is with child and worries for her safety. Does she hope to lose the child in battle? That seems out of character even for her. And what of Aslaug who we know schemes to replace her husband though it seems highly unlikely she’d garner the village’s support. Has she learned nothing from her previous encounter with Harbard? Does she even care who knows about her dalliance with the man who holds the women of Kattegat in the palm of his hand? A sense of urgency now hangs over the heads of the Norsemen, and while the initial thrust fails, we’ve been here before, and Ragnar has been anything if not relentless. But this is a new Ragnar, a Ragnar that has seemingly lost his zest not only for battle but for life itself. Bjorn is ready to take over, but will he be able to manage the upheaval Harald and Halfdan are likely to generate? What makes more sense though is for mother and son to unite, take control and give Bjorn an opportunity to do what he seems destined to do, kill his uncle. How long can Ragnar hold on, but more to the point, how long does he want to hold on? When his father tells him that he plans to fall back, it’s doubtful this is the order Bjorn expects to hear. Then, in the enigmatic scene to close the episode, Ragnar speaks to a severed head on the floor of his tent. “Yes. Tomorrow we retreat,” And with this simple phrase, the great leader may be sealing his fate. The episode rewards us in a number of ways. Ragnar and Lagertha have a moment, and even though it doesn’t turn out the way many of us hoped, at least it happens. We finally get to see the long awaited showdown between Ragnar and Rollo, and the confrontation does not disappoint. And since it’s unlikely that Harald and Halfdan will agree to a retreat, Ragnar’s political life is on the line. Who will come forward to save him since it’s obvious he can’t save himself?


--- [Season 4 Episode 7 "The Profit and the Loss" Episode Discussion : r/vikingstv] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/vikingstv Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to vikingstv r/vikingstv • Omegaus492 Season 4 Episode 7 "The Profit and the Loss" Episode Discussion Keep it civil, only mild raiding beyond this point. Read more Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 1, 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2016 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- [s04e07 - The Profit and the Loss - Vikings Transcript - TvT] ---
No content


--- [[Spoilers] Favorite scene of the entire show? : r/vikingstv] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/vikingstv Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to vikingstv r/vikingstv • [deleted] SPOILER [Spoilers] Favorite scene of the entire show? Sorry, this post was deleted by the person who originally posted it. Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 11, 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2017 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- ['Vikings' Season 4 Spoilers: Ragnar And Rollo Go Head-To-Head In Epic ...] ---
‘Vikings’ Season 4 Spoilers: Ragnar And Rollo Go Head-To-Head In Epic Episode 7 Battle [RECAP] King Harald (Peter Franzén) doesn’t waste any time pointing out the obvious in episode 7 of History Channel’s “Vikings.” “I don’t want to touch a raw nerve but I heard your brother betrayed you,” he tells Ragnar (Travis Fimmel) in the Season 4 installment, titled “The Profit and the Loss.” But it’s difficult for Ragnar to be anything but hurt and embarrassed by his brother’s second treacherous act. With anger in his heart, the King of Norway devises a plan to raid Paris — one that he thinks will catch his brother off guard. But Ragnar forgets just how well Rollo (Clive Standen) knows him. So, when the Vikings arrive to Paris, Rollo anticipates Ragnar’s every move — including Ragnar’s “sneak attack” from land. Rollo orders the attack on Ragnar’s foot soldiers, which is led by the fearsome Lagertha (Katheryn Winnick). But when Ragnar catches a glimpse of the slaughtering, he commands the Vikings to diverge attention away from his ex -wife and back to the boats racing toward Paris. When Rollo sees the boats picking up speed, he releases the traps that he set within the water. This causes the ships to split and capsize, throwing Viking men and women into the water. From the boat, Ragnar sees his frenemy Floki (Gustaf Skarsgård) drowning in the wreckage and quickly jumps into the water to rescue his oldest friend. Now, maybe it was Yidu’s (Dianne Doan) drugs that caused him to do this heroic act but we think it might have been Ragnar’s way of taking the first step to mend their friendship. After saving Floki’s life and climbing aboard, Ragnar uses the last of his strength to give his brother a message. “When everyone wanted you dead I kept you alive. And this is how you repay my love?” he shouts at Rollo, who is watching the massacre from his tower above. While the Vikings warriors dodge arrows from their boats, Ragnar’s people back at the campsite are greeted by blood-thirsty Franks. On horseback they attack women, children and the elderly, striking them down with knives and flames. Luckily, Yidu was able to escape the murderous chaos along with Ragnar and Queen Aslaug's (Alyssa Sutherland) eldest two boys. However, unfortunately for Floki, Helga (Maude Hirst) wasn’t able to escape the brutal surprise attack. Floki finds his wife barely breathing when he makes his way back from the raid. He’s desperate to cure her after losing his daughter. The surviving villagers, who were blindsided by the Franks, question what happened. But Bjorn (Alexander Ludwig) is reluctant to give them an answer. “It’s difficult [to say],” Bjorn tells Torvi (Georgia Hirst). “Because it is my father’s fault.” Three days after the gruesome attack, Bjorn musters up the courage to confront his father, who is high on Yidu’s Chinese medicine. Ragnar’s eldest son says that they need a plan — the longer they wait to raid Paris, the sooner the Franks will attack them. Shaking, Ragnar shouts at his son to let the troops know that they will set sail tomorrow to take down his brother once and for all. “Vikings” airs Thursdays at 10 p.m. EDT on History Channel. © Copyright IBTimes 2026. All rights reserved.
