=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[One Life To Live Series Finale Recap & Photos: The Rainbow's End]
Jan 13, 2012 · The following contains spoilers from the series finale of ABC's One Life to Live. Well that was different from a crazed J.R. chandler firing gunshots into a crowded room. ABC's One Life to Live ...
URL: https://tvline.com/news/one-life-to-live-series-finale-recap-287832/

[Allison Perkins]
On January 13, Allison narrates the last episode of One Life to Live from an unknown room. She tells the life stories of Viki and Clint, and hints at the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allison_Perkins

[How Did One Life to Live End? Watch the Final Scene!]
Jan 13, 2012 · Viewers said goodbye to Llanview Friday when One Life to Live ended after 44 years. Sure enough, the longtime ABC soap's final hour provided plenty of drama — including not one but two ...
URL: https://www.tvguide.com/news/one-life-live-final-scene-1041610/

[January 13, 2012 (One Life to Live) | The Best Ultimate Wiki | Fandom]
The final episode of One Life to Live that aired on January 13, 2012 was broadcast on ABC. "Once upon a time there was a woman named Victoria Lord Riley Burke Riley Buchanan Buchanan Carpenter Davidson Banks. She was an heiress to a vast publishing fortune, but even greater in number were all the people she loved. Her family and the town she called home, Llanview." Viki and Clint are sitting ...
URL: https://the-best-ultimate.fandom.com/wiki/January_13,_2012_(One_Life_to_Live)

[One Life to Live - Wikipedia]
One Life to Live (often abbreviated as OLTL) is an American soap opera broadcast on the ABC television network for more than 43 years, from July 15, 1968, to January 13, 2012, and then on the internet as a web series on Hulu and iTunes via Prospect Park from April 29 to August 19, 2013. [2][3][4] Created by Agnes Nixon, the series was the first ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Life_to_Live


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [One Life To Live Series Finale Recap & Photos: The Rainbow's End] ---
One Life To Live Series Finale Recap & Photos: The Rainbow's End The following contains spoilers from the series finale of ABC's One Life to Live. Well that was different from a crazed J.R. chandler firing gunshots into a crowded room. ABC's One Life to Live — perhaps having learned a lesson from how its sister soap, All My Children, frustratingly sewed things up (having done so under the impression that life would go on online) — zagged where that show zigged and served up a bevy of heartwarming moments capped by, yes, one cliffhanger reveal, but nothing nearly as random as what went down in Pine Valley. One of the biggest crowd-pleasers concerned the true, absolute and undeniable paternity of Jessica, who in recent years had been retconned as born of Mitch's seed. Well, the retcon got retconned as Clint and Viki opened up new DNA test results that proved Jess is a blue-blooded Buke, tried-and-true. That reveal, in and of itself swelling with emotion, was only amplified by knock-out performances by Erika Slezak, Jerry ver Dorn, Bree Williamson and Melissa Archer, each of them undoubtedly assisted by streaming tears that were real. As a kicker to that — not that it needed one — a reflective Clint got down on bended knee and proposed anew to Viki, with both Slezak and ver Dorn visibly moved by the moment as actors as much as characters. Similar real-life waterworks were on joyous display when Bo and Nora, in the wake of Destiny giving birth to her and Matthew's son, aptly and wonderfully named "Drew," reaffirming their love for each other. One "I love you, Red" was all it took to cue up the VCR in our heads, which somewhat made up for a lack of on-screen flashbacks. Elsewhere during the too-short hour: Brody stopped by to see Jessica, proving himself to be well and perhaps on his way back into the armed forces, and Cole showed up as Starr's "bodyguard," in part to report that his father, Patrick, was alive. But such kiddie stuff took a big back seat to the Buchanans' story, as well as the sort of scenes that Todd and Blair fans have waited far, far, far too long for. Together and alone at last, though not without a couple starts-and-stops, Todd eventually let himself fall into Blair's arms, and they made (off-screen) love. As small comfort for TnBers, there was a prolonged afterglow moment complete with Roger Howarth shirtlessness (though those moments are conspicuously if not surprisingly missing from the ABC photos shared below). Lest things end on too euphoric a note (did someone say "encore"?), John and the LPD came busting in on the lovers, to arrest Todd for the murder of Victor Lord Jr. However.... The finale closed with the hour's narrator, Allison Perkins, throwing her script at the bound-and-gagged familiar face she had been reciting her "One Life to Live" tale to: Victor Lord Jr. himself, very much alive. I may have missed a few notes; TVLine's Meg Masters will be here later to fill any blanks. But for now, tell us what you thought of the finale. And how do you think Todd, Blair, John and Starr will migrate to General Hospital's Port Charles?


--- [Allison Perkins] ---
Allison Perkins is a fictional character on the  American soap opera One Life to Live.
Barbara Garrick originated the role from 1986 to 1987, returning from August 15, 2001 to August 27, 2002 and then making brief appearances from October 24 to October 28, 2002 and January 10 to January 31, 2003. Garrick once again returned to the role from January 25, 2008 to March 3, 2008. She reappeared on February 26, 2010, until April 13, 2010. She escaped Statesville and returned to Llanview during the blackout on January 5, 2012, and remained until the broadcast finale January 13, 2012. Under secrecy, Garrick returned for the first-season finale of Prospect Park's version of One Life to Live on August 19, 2013.


--- [How Did One Life to Live End? Watch the Final Scene!] ---
Join or Sign In Sign in to customize your TV listings By joining TV Guide, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. Viewers said goodbye to Llanview Friday when One Life to Live ended after 44 years. Sure enough, the longtime ABC soap's final hour provided plenty of drama — including not one but two romantic reunions and a resurrection from the dead! In the episode's final moments, Vicki (Erika Slezak) and Clint (Jerry verDorn) reunited for good after Vicki learned that Clint was the father of Jessica. In another part of Llanview, Todd (Roger Howarth) and... Viewers said goodbye to Llanview Friday when One Life to Live ended after 44 years. Sure enough, the longtime ABC soap's final hour provided plenty of drama — including not one but two romantic reunions and a resurrection from the dead! In the episode's final moments, Vicki (Erika Slezak) and Clint (Jerry verDorn) reunited for good after Vicki learned that Clint was the father of Jessica. In another part of Llanview, Todd (Roger Howarth) and Blair (Kassie DePaiva ) finally came together, only to have their romantic reunion rudely interrupted by John McBain, who was there to arrest Todd for the murder of Victor Lord Jr. But wait! Victor Lord Jr. was revealed to be very much alive and being held captive by resident villain Allison Perkins (Barbara Garrick). One Life to Live alums to reprise characters on General Hospital Fortunately for fans, this isn't the end for Todd and Blair. Howarth and DePaiva are two of four actors who will reprise their One Life to Live roles on General Hospital, a move that was just announced earlier this week. Watch the final scene here:


--- [January 13, 2012 (One Life to Live) | The Best Ultimate Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [One Life to Live - Wikipedia] ---
One Life to Live (often abbreviated as OLTL) is an American soap opera broadcast on the ABC television network for more than 43 years, from July 15, 1968, to January 13, 2012, and then on the internet as a web series on Hulu and iTunes via Prospect Park from April 29 to August 19, 2013. Created by Agnes Nixon, the series was the first daytime drama to primarily feature ethnically and socioeconomically diverse characters and consistently emphasize social issues. One Life to Live was expanded from 30 minutes to 45 minutes on July 26, 1976, and then to an hour on January 16, 1978.
One Life to Live heavily focuses on the members and relationships of the Lord family. Actress Erika Slezak began portraying the series' protagonist Victoria Lord in March 1971 and played the character continuously for the rest of the show's run on ABC Daytime, winning a record six Daytime Emmy Awards for the role. In 2002, the series won an Emmy for Outstanding Drama Series.
On September 17, 2010, One Life to Live became the last American daytime soap opera taped in New York City; it earned this distinction after As the World Turns, which had been taped in New York since its 1956 premiere, aired its final episode. No daytime serial has emanated from New York since; ABC's lone soap, General Hospital, CBS's The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful, and Peacock's Days of Our Lives are all recorded in California and CBS's other serial, Beyond the Gates, is produced outside of Atlanta.
On April 14, 2011, ABC announced that it was canceling One Life to Live after nearly 43 years on the air due to low ratings. On July 7, 2011, production company Prospect Park announced that it would continue the show as a web series after its run on ABC, but later suspended the project. The show taped its final scenes for ABC on November 18, 2011, and its final episode on the network aired on January 13, 2012, with a cliffhanger. On January 16, 2012, the following Monday, ABC replaced One Life to Live with a new and short-lived talk show called The Revolution that aired until July 6 of the same year.
On January 7, 2013, Prospect Park resumed its plan to continue One Life to Live as a daily 30-minute web series on Hulu and iTunes via The Online Network. The relaunched series premiered on April 29, 2013. The new series was plagued with several behind-the-scenes problems, most notably a litigation between Prospect Park and ABC regarding the misuse of One Life to Live characters on General Hospital. On September 3, 2013, Prospect Park suspended production of the series until the lawsuit with ABC was resolved.
