=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia]
Abu Baker Asvat(/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 – 27 January 1989), also known asAbuAsvat[1] orAbu[2] nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abu_Baker_Asvat

[Book extract: The assassination of Dr Asvat - News24South African Cricket Board "Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Under 16 ...Dr Abu Baker ‘Hurley’ Asvat - DocsLibAbu Baker Asvat- WikipediaDr.Abu Baker Asvat- South African History OnlineDr.Abu Baker Asvattimeline 1943 - South African History OnlineDr.Abu Baker Asvattimeline 1943 - South African History OnlineDr. Abu Baker Asvat - South African History Online]
Oct 7, 2018 ·The killings ofAbu-BakerAsvatand Stompie Seipei resulted in several arrests and three major trials. Cyril Mbatha and Thulani Dlamini were quickly detained and charged with the murder ofDrAsvat.South AfricanCricketBoard "Dr.Abu-BakerAsvatUnder 16 Memorial Tournament Johannesburg, 31st December 1989 - 6th January 1990The article is a biography ofDrAbuBaker‘Hurley’Asvat, better known as the people’s doctor, from his childhood in Vrededorp to his medical study and political activism as part of a Pan Africanist Congress (PAC)-aligned students group. More importantly the article brings to light the significant role the peoples’ doctorplayedin non-racialcricketand his emergence as a vital ...Who is Abu Baker Asvat?Thesectionof theR554 road linking Soweto to LenasiawasrenamedAbu Baker AsvatDrive bythepost-apartheid government. A juniorcrickettournamentwasinstituted inAsvat's memory, in 2002. HewasawardedtheOrderofLuthuli in Silver by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2021.Why did people call Dr Asvat 'Abu'?Asvat soon became well-known throughout Johannesburg for his dedication to helping people, as well as for his unassuming style.People from throughout Soweto came to him for medical services. He insisted that patients call him ‘Abu’ rather than Dr. Asvat.Where did Asvat get his medical training?After completing a two year science course in Lahore, Asvat begins his medical training inEast Pakistan(Bangladesh). He and his brother Ebrahim eventually move to Karachi to continue their medical studies. Ebrahim and Abu, along with a group of likeminded students in Karachi, establish the Azania Youth Movement, affiliated with the PAC.Where did Asvat go to school?Asvat graduates fromJohannesburg Indian High Schooland moves to Pakistan to continue his education. After completing a two year science course in Lahore, Asvat begins his medical training in East Pakistan (Bangladesh). He and his brother Ebrahim eventually move to Karachi to continue their medical studies.May 25, 2012 ·A year after his death, the firstDr. Abu-Baker AsvatMemorialCrickettournament was held in his memory in Lenasia. The tournament continues to run as an annual event to this day, organized by theAbuAsvatInstitute for Nation Building.
URL: https://www.news24.com/citypress/archive/books/book-extract-the-assassination-of-dr-asvat-20181007

[Dr. Abu Baker Asvat timeline 1943 - 2012 | South African ...]
Jun 1, 2012 ·1943 23 February,AbuBakerAsvatis born in Vrededorp, Gauteng. 1961Asvatgraduates from Johannesburg Indian High School and moves to Pakistan to continue his education. 1963 After completing a two year science course in Lahore,Asvatbegins his medical training in East Pakistan (Bangladesh). He and his brother Ebrahim eventually move to Karachi to continue their medical studies. 1964 1943 ...
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/article/dr-abu-baker-asvat-timeline-1943-2012

[From dust to glory: the origins of non-racial cricket in Lenasia]
Jun 22, 2025 ·Disillusionment was widespread with leaders such asDrAbubakerAsvatcondemning the betrayal, and many players exited the game altogether.
URL: https://www.iol.co.za/thepost/opinion/2025-06-22-from-dust-to-glory-the-origins-of-non-racial-cricket-in-lenasia/

[South African Cricket Board "Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Under 16 ...]
South AfricanCricketBoard "Dr.Abu-BakerAsvatUnder 16 Memorial Tournament Johannesburg, 31st December 1989 - 6th January 1990
URL: https://researcharchives.wits.ac.za/e3-1-3-7


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia] ---
Abu Baker Asvat (/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 – 27 January 1989), also known as Abu Asvat 
 or Abu nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s. A founding member of Azapo, Asvat was the head of its health secretariat, and involved in initiatives aimed at improving the health of rural black South Africans during Apartheid.
In 1989, Asvat was shot dead in his clinic, and he died in the arms of his nurse, Albertina Sisulu. His death has been linked to that of Stompie Seipei four weeks earlier, with allegations that Winnie Mandela (whose personal physician Asvat was) paid for his murder as part of a cover-up of Seipei's killing, being presented to South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


--- [Book extract: The assassination of Dr Asvat - News24South African Cricket Board "Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Under 16 ...Dr Abu Baker ‘Hurley’ Asvat - DocsLibAbu Baker Asvat- WikipediaDr.Abu Baker Asvat- South African History OnlineDr.Abu Baker Asvattimeline 1943 - South African History OnlineDr.Abu Baker Asvattimeline 1943 - South African History OnlineDr. Abu Baker Asvat - South African History Online] ---
Truth, Lies and Alibis: A Winnie Mandela Story by Fred Bridgland Tafelberg 312 pages R265 ‘Assassination is the extreme form of censorship’ – George Bernard Shaw Many days passed after Moeketsi “Stompie” Seipei’s murder on New Year’s Eve 1988 before the first thin and cautious reports surfaced in the South African media of a mysterious raid on Paul Verryn’s Soweto manse and the kidnap from there of four boys. The crisis committee visited Mrs Mandela on at least three occasions only to be told that Stompie had “escaped”, although he was actually lying dead, frozen solid and undiscovered in a morgue. After one visit, on January 13 1989, the committee left Mrs Mandela’s house fully realising that the Winnie “problem” had now become a grave crisis for the ANC. The committee members said nothing publicly, but drew up a report of more than 1 000 words on developments in the saga and sent a lawyer to Zambia to give it to Oliver Tambo, the ANC’s exiled president. The report said the members feared Stompie was dead and that, before he died, he had been so brutally assaulted that “he could not even walk”. They also told Tambo that Thabiso Mono and Pelo Mekgwe had fresh scars on their bodies and that the youths said they had been beaten by Mrs Mandela. “She seems to think she is above the community,” the report said. “She shows utter contempt for the crisis committee and the community.” Tambo was asked to advise what the committee must do next “to help us map out the way forward”. The ailing Tambo is said to have covered his face with his hands after he had been briefed by the lawyer and groaned: “What must I do? We can’t control her. "The ANC can’t control her. We tried to control her, that’s why we formed the crisis committee. You must tell the crisis committee they must do more.” Tambo noted in his personal diary: “Image [of Winnie] in tatter[s] w[ith] top level. [Nelson] Mandela should act to save himself and ANC.” ... Just before dawn on Saturday January 7 1989, Kenny Kgase walked towards the back corner of the yard behind Winnie Mandela’s house and noticed that, unusually, there was no Mandela United Football Club guard in sight. He decided to make an escape. He removed his shoes, leaped over a wall and ran. He hitched a lift into central Johannesburg and, at about 6.30 in the morning, knocked on the door of the Methodist Church regional headquarters. He was let in by a minister, who telephoned Paul Verryn. Verryn arrived about three hours later to find Kgase covered in bruises and scars. Kgase, hyperalert and deeply agitated with fear, told Verryn he was convinced Stompie must be dead. He described to Verryn the terrible state in which he had last seen Stompie and how he had disappeared from Mrs Mandela’s house. Verryn took Kgase to see a doctor, Martin Connell, in the white suburb of Melville. Connell examined Kgase. His face, hip, left shoulder, chest, right arm and back were covered in scars and heavy bruises. Kgase’s skin was broken in five places and his face was so heavily bruised that it was lopsided. Connell sheltered Kgase for several weeks. The youth’s emotional state reminded the doctor of South African soldiers he had counselled who had come under heavy mortar fire in warfare in Angola and Namibia. As news of Kgase’s escape leaked into the local media, the Winnie “problem” escalated into a public rather than private ANC dilemma for the Mandela Crisis Committee. On Saturday January 14, Nelson Mandela’s personal lawyer, Ismail Ayob, flew from Johannesburg to the Cape to hold an emergency meeting with Mandela in Victor Verster Prison in Paarl, near Cape Town. Mandela sent instructions ordering Winnie to release the kidnapped boys. She at first refused, but, under increasing pressure, released the heavily beaten Thabiso Mono and Pelo Mekgwe on February 16 1989, the day after Patricia Klepp had identified Stompie’s remains. ... Beforehand, Mrs Mandela had tried to deal with her growing difficulties by telling Katiza Cebekhulu to go to Orlando Police Station to make a sworn statement accusing Paul Verryn of having raped him. Cebekhulu at first refused because he grasped that events were getting out of control: if the police were to arrest Verryn, the fire would spread and Cebekhulu feared that he too would be embroiled in deep trouble. Mrs Mandela summoned her new lawyer, Krish Naidoo, and ordered Cebekhulu in no uncertain terms to go with him to the police station on January 25 1989 to make the statement. She assured Cebekhulu that he would be protected by Naidoo. The duty desk policemen, in fact, treated Naidoo and Cebekhulu’s complaint as a joke. They laughed, but finally they opened a docket. One officer asked the pair to bring a letter from Cebekhulu’s doctor confirming the rape. Only then would it be possible to arrest the rapist, he said. That policeman had innocently ensured that Dr Asvat would die. Ebrahim Asvat said Mrs Mandela took Katiza Cebekhulu the next day, January 26 1989, to Abu-Baker Asvat’s surgery once again to secure from him the medical certificate that she had demanded four weeks earlier and which she now desperately needed to be able to lay charges against Verryn. Cebekhulu recalled sitting in the waiting room. “When Winnie was called into Dr Asvat’s consultation room, we heard raised voices,” said Cebekhulu. “I made out Winnie shouting: ‘If you don’t cooperate, I’ll deal with you!’ We could not hear everything, but Winnie was obviously threatening the doctor. Winnie left with me in tow and without the medical certificate for the police. Winnie was fizzing with anger.” Dr Asvat had refused to perjure himself. Testifying years later at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), Cebekhulu described how Mrs Mandela then introduced to him two unemployed youths, Zakhele Cyril Mbatha and Thulani Nicholas Dlamini, who had arrived in Johannesburg in search of work from their rural homes near Nongoma in northern Zululand. Cebekhulu said Mrs Mandela ordered him to show the youths the location of Dr Asvat’s surgery. Cebekhulu did so and returned to Mrs Mandela’s house after pointing at the small building. Mbatha told the TRC under oath that Mrs Mandela promised him and Dlamini R20 000 and gave them a revolver with which to “remove” Asvat, because he “was disturbing her in her political work”. Dlamini said the revolver was not “good enough”, so Mrs Mandela went into her house and returned with a 9mm pistol wrapped in cloth. ... On the evening of that same day, January 26, Abu-Baker Asvat drove to a meeting of his cricket club, Crescents, in Lenasia. His car sustained a puncture as he returned home and he had to pull off the road to mend it. When he finally arrived home, he told his wife, Zhora, about the puncture and how he had been too terrified to stop. He had thought the damage to his tyre was an element in an ambush and that “they” had come to get him. He did not explain to Zhora who or what it was that was frightening him so intensely, or who “they” were. But his wife had already become concerned earlier in the month when she sensed something was troubling Abu-Baker. Although he did not confide in her, he did something highly unusual. He handed her a wad of cash – in case “something” happened to him, he told Zhora. She said she did not need the money. “Just keep it anyway,” he replied, “in case you do.” In the middle of Friday, January 27 1989, Abu-Baker Asvat visited Winnie Mandela at her Diepkloof Extension home, according to Asvat family members. What transpired there that day is unknown, but by the time he arrived late for the family’s weekly Friday prayers, he was so troubled and preoccupied that he failed to follow the set rituals. At 2.30pm, he left for Soweto to conduct an afternoon surgery. By the end of the afternoon, he lay dead on his surgery floor in a pool of his blood, no longer able to give evidence about Stompie’s injuries or to confirm that Winnie Mandela had in fact been in Soweto when later she would claim she had been “somewhere else”. ... Mbatha, then aged 21, and Dlamini (20), entered the surgery that same afternoon just after 4pm and killed the doctor. It is possible, I suppose, that if Dr Asvat had provided the signed medical certificate sought by Winnie, he might have lived and Paul Verryn might have gone to prison, so capricious and haphazard sometimes is the nature of justice and its pursuit. When Mbatha and Dlamini were admitted by Asvat to the consulting room, Ma Albertina Sisulu heard the security door between it and reception click. Next, she heard a gunshot, followed by a scream from Dr Asvat. She shouted to him through the hatch connecting the rooms, but there was no response. Overcome by fear, she screamed and ran into the street to seek help. As she did so, she saw Mbatha and Dlamini running from the surgery. She turned back to the surgery, unlocked the security door to the doctor’s room from the outside and found Abu-Baker Asvat lying gravely wounded in a pool of blood. She was joined by Thandi Tshabalala, who had heard the shots from her house across the road. Dr Asvat was still alive when Miss Tshabalala reached him. “I tried to talk to him,” she said. “His lips were moving and he was showing me with his hands that the telephone was on the wall.” But Abu-Baker died before the police arrived, taking with him his knowledge about the final days of Stompie’s life. Buried with him would also be his reasons for declining to issue a certificate verifying the rape of Katiza Cebekhulu. ... Ma Sisulu telephoned Ebrahim Asvat, who drove fast from his practice in the nearby gold mining town of Carletonville to the surgery. “When I arrived, my brother’s body was still lying there on the floor of the consulting room,” Ebrahim told me. “Ma Sisulu burst into tears.” Ebrahim picked up his brother’s medical cards and the logbook, vital evidence about who had visited the surgery and when. The logbook was part of a strict double-entry system maintained by Ma Sisulu. Details from individual medical cards were duplicated in the comprehensive daily logbook. Ebrahim checked the date of Winnie’s visit with Cebekhulu to his brother on the medical card against the logbook entry: the dates were the same. Mrs Mandela would later claim when she went on trial that she was in Brandfort on that day. Around this time, Winnie Mandela gave only one lengthy media interview – to Robin Lloyd of the National Broadcasting Company. Lloyd met her four days after Asvat was murdered. In the interview, she pursued her vendetta against Paul Verryn, telling the US audience: “I don’t understand how a man of his standing continues to sodomise black children. "There is clear evidence that he has fallen victim to a medical problem which should be addressed quietly with his doctors. He brutalises these youths who are with him because one youth [Katiza] would not give in to his sexual advances. This is how it arose.” She went on: “The youths in my premises did not abduct any children. It came about when a woman [Xoliswa Falati] who was staying with Paul Verryn told me about this child [Katiza] and he was later fetched. There is a gigantic cover-up by the church. "Xoliswa brought the boys – especially the traumatised child – because she panicked when he [Katiza] said the only way to deal with the white man is to kill him. “The focus should have been on Paul Verryn and the SACC [South African Council of Churches]. "The SACC are worried about their image because when people discover that Paul Verryn is not very well, their overseas funding may be affected … We thought we were assisting the church in a problem and their only interest is in covering their image.” Albertina Sisulu became so concerned for Paul Verryn’s safety that she warned him to stay out of Soweto because his life now was “definitely in danger”. Verryn dismissed Albertina’s advice and, while he was returning to his manse one evening after a church service elsewhere, a young man toting a gun ordered him out of his car and to surrender his keys. Verryn, who was wearing a cassock, refused and recalled the man saying: “Give me your keys or I’ll kill you.” Verryn said he replied: “Then kill me and it will be on your conscience with God.” The gunman fired three shots. All appeared to miss Verryn. Then the gun jammed. Verryn ran into his manse and the gunman fled. When Verryn removed his cassock later, a bullet fell out of the cloth. The gunman was never traced. ... The killings of Abu-Baker Asvat and Stompie Seipei resulted in several arrests and three major trials. Cyril Mbatha and Thulani Dlamini were quickly detained and charged with the murder of Dr Asvat. They both gave statements to the police. Dlamini said they had been “bought” by Winnie Mandela and they were to collect the R20 000 fee from her after the assassination. They were detained before they had a chance to pick up the money, which they intended to use to buy corrugated iron sheets to build shack homes. Dlamini said he had been told by Mrs Mandela that, by killing Dr Asvat, he would be advancing the cause of freedom and the black liberation struggle. Extraordinarily, and for reasons that have never been satisfactorily explained, Dlamini’s statement implicating Winnie was not produced in court when he and Mbatha went on trial in October 1989. Nor were Winnie Mandela, Katiza Cebekhulu or other members of the Mandela United Football Club questioned or required to make statements before the trial or to give evidence during it. Dlamini and Mbatha were both found guilty and sentenced to death in November 1989. Dlamini’s sentence was reduced on appeal to life imprisonment because he had not fired the fatal shot. Mbatha, who fired the 9mm pistol, was saved from hanging by a 1992 presidential moratorium, issued by FW de Klerk, suspending state executions. Both reiterated their accusations that the murder weapon was given to them by Winnie Mandela. Ebrahim Asvat, questioned by TRC investigators about the killing of his brother, recalled how he and Ma Sisulu cleared up Abu-Baker’s surgery three days after the doctor’s death. As they worked together, Ebrahim said he broke down and asked Ma Sisulu who could have done such a thing. He said she simply responded: “It was Winnie.”


--- [Dr. Abu Baker Asvat timeline 1943 - 2012 | South African ...] ---
No content


--- [From dust to glory: the origins of non-racial cricket in Lenasia] ---
From dust to glory: the origins of non-racial cricket in Lenasia Making history Dr Abubaker Asvat addressing the TCB AGM Image: Supplied By the late 19th century, cricket had taken root in South Africa’s racially segregated communities. Despite apartheid divisions, inter-racial matches emerged - though fragile alliances often led to split leagues - inadvertently reinforcing the official policy of racial segregation. In 1947, the non-white cricket boards united to form the South African Cricket Board of Control (SACBOC), organising national competitions across racial lines. By 1960, SACBOC became the first non-racial, national cricket body, leading South African cricket until 1976. Football and rugby would later follow similar paths. Reverend Sigamoney and the fight for fields Access to sporting facilities for non-whites was a persistent challenge. Reverend Bernard Sigamoney, a Durban-born teacher, activist, and Anglican minister, moved to Johannesburg and began advocating for Indian sports grounds. He formed the Johannesburg Indian Sports Ground Association and after six years secured land for the Natalspruit Sports Ground in 1934 - a vital space for football and cricket. Reverend Bernard Sigamoney Image: Supplied Alongside Durban’s Curries Fountain and Cape Town’s Green Point, it became a hub for non-White sport in Transvaal. However, forced removals from the 1950s through to the 1970s decimated such facilities. Natalspruit was closed in 1973, and Queenspark in Vrededorp followed in 1975. Cricket finds a home in Lenasia Between 1955 and 1963, apartheid-era relocations forced Indian families to Lenasia. The first rudimentary field emerged at the Lenasia High School. Players initially remained with Witwatersrand clubs, but in 1965, the Western Districts Indian Cricket Association (WDICA) was formed with Solly Patel as chairman and Solly Chothia as secretary. Solly Patel – first President of WDICA) Image: Supplied WDICA rapidly expanded becoming the largest affiliate of the Transvaal Cricket Federation. Fixture shortages led to matches with Johannesburg clubs and in 1967 four fields in Lenasia Extension 6 were allocated to ease the pressure. Solly Chothia (WDICA Secretary) Image: Supplied A tournament and turf pitch milestone In 1967, WDICA launched the Lenasia Cricket Tournament - Transvaal’s first outside SACBOC’s national events. Held over Easter, it drew teams nationwide and was praised for excellent organisation. By 1971, the tournament shifted temporarily to Natalspruit due to stadium construction in Lenasia, which introduced the first turf pitch for non-white players in South Africa. In 1972, Abdul Latief ‘Tiffie’ Barnes made history with the first non-racial, first-class century at the new stadium. WDICA’s inclusion in Transvaal’s inter-zone competition expanded opportunities but sadly the Lenasia Tournament was discontinued. Lenasia then hosted key Dadabhay Trophy and North vs South matches, featuring the country’s top non-racial cricket players. The collapse of non-racial cricket The late 1970s saw secret talks between SACBOC and the white-run South African Cricket Association (SACA), resulting in the South African Cricket Union (SACU). This ended the golden age of non-racial cricket. WDICA and other non-white affiliates dissolved. While some welcomed the unified structure, critics like the non-racial South African Council on Sport (SACOS) and the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee (SANROC) saw it as superficial in a still-divided society. Outrage grew after SACU clarified that multiracial clubs were never part of the agreement. Disillusionment was widespread with leaders such as Dr Abubaker Asvat condemning the betrayal, and many players exited the game altogether. A rebirth of resistance In 1977, the South African Cricket Board (SACB) emerged under Hassan Howa, and the Transvaal Cricket Board (TCB) followed later that year. Azads Cricket Club and leaders like PJ Bhana and Dr Rasik Gopal drove its creation. Led by Percy Pheffer, the TCB expanded rapidly and by 1983, it had 43 clubs. Cricket revival included junior development through the Transvaal Junior Cricket Board, producing future stars like Mohammed Moosajee and “Jack” Manack. Internal conflict eventually led to TCB’s dissolution. Dr Gulam Karrim later led the Cricket Association of Transvaal (CAT), which survived until national unity efforts in 1991. Schools rekindle the flame Cricket thrived in schools like Lenasia and Nirvana High, rekindling a fierce rivalry. Educators such as Hoosain Ayob and Yusuf Wadee elevated standards, and Mr Abdulhaq ‘Blikkies’ Bismillah’s leadership brought excellence to junior cricket. (Veteran cricketer and coach, Hoosain Ayob) Image: Supplied Many schoolboys played in SASSA national tournaments. Transvaal High Schools became a powerhouse with players like Moosajee captaining the SA Schools Team. Teachers Farouk Mahomed and Ismail Baker fostered widespread learner participation. Lenasia Stadium: sabotage and reclamation Despite forming the TCB, the Lenasia Stadium remained under control of the apartheid-aligned Johannesburg Cricket Council. Provincial fixtures moved elsewhere. In protest, Pirates Cricket Club defied the ban but faced arrest threats. The pitch was later sabotaged. Eventually, the community reclaimed it. In 1983, Pirates and Crescents CC "invaded" the field and played a match without incident. The stadium was symbolically renamed albeit briefly after the renowned local Dr Abubaker Asvat. Though rebuilding was hard, veterans like ‘Ossie’ Latha, ‘Morris’ Garda and others helped attract new talent, including players from other provinces like Vincent Barnes and Haroon Lorgat. Several honed their skills overseas and returned as elite players and coaches.From 1977 to 1991, clubs such as Azads, Pirates, Proteas and others upheld non-racial cricket. Key Howa Bowl captains included ‘Sam’ Nana, ‘Jack’ Manack and Haroon Lorgat. Lenasia turns 70 Image: Supplied Unity, but not without tension South Africa's political transition in 1991 spurred sport unity efforts. SACOS refused to join until full democracy was achieved, but the United Cricket Board of South Africa (UCBSA) was nonetheless formed in 1991.SACOS members walked out in protest, leaving CAT weakened. Still, leaders like Dr Gulam Karrim, lawyer Mahomed Jajbhay and administrator Goolam Rajah helped represent Transvaal cricket in unity talks. As CAT’s era ended, clubs like Crescents and Pirates left a lasting mark. New Challenges in a Unified Era As unified leagues formed, top CAT clubs earned Premier League spots, with stars like the Manack cousins, Iqbal Khan, Imran Munshi and Nezier Dindar among many others. Yet non-white players faced marginalisation and voting rights inequalities. Dr Karrim expanded his advisory group to address these concerns. Bright moments followed - Ahmed Omar became the first Indian-origin South African in the national U15 and U19 teams, scoring a century against England. But competitiveness lagged and Justice Jajbhay proposed mergers. In 1995, legacy clubs united as the Lenasia Cricket Club (LCC). Despite early enthusiasm, by the late 1990s, momentum waned. The UCB’s Transformation Charter faced local resistance and top administrators like Dr Moosajee walked out of governance meetings in protest.CSA intervened, appointing Justice Pius Langa to lead an inquiry. His recommendations led to a more inclusive structure - though it took nearly a decade to implement. Lenasia’s Stadium: from glory to neglect In 1994, Lenasia Stadium hosted international teams including Pakistan, Sri Lanka, England and Barbados. But by the 2000s, the ground deteriorated. Promised upgrades never came. A 2009 budget for floodlights was diverted to FNB Stadium. LCC spent R800 000 of its own funds to maintain basic standards, supported by Lions CEO Jono Leaf-Wright.Meanwhile, a R4 million allocation in 2019 for the upgrade of the Tech Grounds remains unaccounted for. Legal appeals from the Abu Asvat Institute were ignored, and poor conditions has forced teams to play away from home, draining resources. Beyond the boundary: Lenasia’s broader impact Despite challenges, Lenasia has had a national and global impact on cricket: ⦁ Hoosain Ayob led CSA coaching and helped expand African cricket from 8 to over 20 countries. ⦁ Ahmed Omar was the first Indian-origin South African to play U15 and U19 cricket. ⦁ Shaylin Pillay and Yasin Valley played at U19 World Cups. ⦁ Goolam Rajah managed the national team for 20 years and later the World XI in Australia. ⦁ Shahed Wadvalla served as an international umpire and presently as match referee. ⦁ Sikander Wadvalla became South Africa’s first non-White cricket CEO in 1995. ⦁ Haroon Lorgat led CSA and ICC, building CSA’s assets to over R2 billion. ⦁ Dr Moosajee rose from team doctor to CSA Vice President and is presently a delegate to ICC. ⦁ Hussein Manack was a national selector and presently a cricket commentator. ⦁ Iqbal Khan served as a CSA board director for eight years. ⦁ Aslam Khota, a veteran commentator, has covered over 400 international matches and produced cricket documentaries. He also authored Across the Great Divide in 2003. ⦁ LCC secured sponsors like Epic Foods and Big Bom, funding hundreds of junior cricketers. Legacy and the road ahead Lenasia’s cricket journey - from gravel fields to international arenas - reflects resilience and community pride. Pioneers like Solly Patel, Yusuf Cajee and Sallie Bhikoo laid the foundation, and their sacrifices live on. Now, 70 years since cricket first arrived in Lenasia, the mission continues: to restore facilities, rebuild club culture and carry forward a legacy born from dust, and shaped into glory. Aslam Khota Image: Supplied Aslam Khota is a veteran cricket commentator and author. Related Topics:


--- [South African Cricket Board "Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Under 16 ...] ---
Identity area Reference code ZA HPRA AG3403-E-E3-E3.1-E3.1.3-E3-1-3-7 Title South African Cricket Board "Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Under 16 Memorial Tournament Johannesburg, 31st December 1989 - 6th January 1990 Date(s) Level of description subsubsubsubseries
