=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Skyrim:Dragonborn - UESP Wiki - The Unofficial Elder Scrolls Pages]
With this official add-on for The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, journey off the coast of Morrowind, to the island of Solstheim. Encounter new towns, dungeons, and quests, as you traverse the ash wastes and glacial valleys of this new land. Become more powerful with new shouts that bend the will of your enemies and even tame dragons.
URL: https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Dragonborn

[The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonborn - Fandom]
Journey off the coast of Morrowind, to the island of Solstheim. Encounter new towns, dungeons, and quests, as you traverse the ash wastes and glacial valleys of this new land. Become more powerful with shouts that bend the will of your enemies and even tame dragons. Your fate, and the fate of Solstheim, hangs in the balance as you face off against your deadliest adversary - the first Dragonborn.
URL: https://elderscrolls.fandom.com/wiki/The_Elder_Scrolls_V:_Dragonborn

[The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Dragonborn - Wikipedia]
The expansion is set on the island of Solstheim, located off the north coast of Morrowind. Solstheim was a territory that once belonged to Skyrim until the High King gave the island to Morrowind to serve as a refuge for the Dunmer fleeing Morrowind after the eruption of the Red Mountain volcano. Geographically, half of Solstheim is similar to northern Skyrim, covered in icy glaciers and snow ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Elder_Scrolls_V:_Skyrim_%E2%80%93_Dragonborn

[New DLC Available - The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn]
Feb 5, 2013 · The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn, all new content for The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is Now Available on Steam. With this official add-on for The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, journey off the coast of Morrowind, to the island of Solstheim. Encounter new towns, dungeons, and quests, as you traverse the ash wastes and glacial valleys of this new ...
URL: https://store.steampowered.com/news/9888/

[Dragonborn DLC - Skyrim Wiki]
Dec 4, 2012 · The Dragonborn DLC mainly takes place on the newly added location: the Island of Solstheim. The island sits on the north east of Skrim and extreme climate can be found on both end of the island.
URL: https://skyrim.wiki.fextralife.com/Dragonborn+DLC


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Skyrim:Dragonborn - UESP Wiki - The Unofficial Elder Scrolls Pages] ---
Skyrim:Dragonborn The UESPWiki – Your source for The Elder Scrolls, in memory of Julian LeFay This article is about the add-on. For the quest, see Dragonborn (quest). For the player character, see Prisoner. For general information, see Dovahkiin. | Add-on: Dragonborn | | |---|---| | Released | 4 December 2012 (Xbox 360) 5 February 2013 (PC) 12 February 2013 (PS3, US) 13 February 2013 (PS3, English-speaking EU) | | Availability | | | PC | Available from Steam ($19.99/€19.99/£13.99/¥2499/$24.23 AUD/429 RUB) | | Xbox 360 | Available from Xbox Marketplace ($19.99 US & Canada, was 1600 MS Points) | | PS3 | Available from the Playstation Store ($20/$25 AUD/¥2400) | | Other | Included with Special Edition, Switch Edition, Skyrim VR, and Anniversary Edition | | Requirements | | | Patch | 1.8.151.0.7 | Dragonborn is the third major official add-on for Skyrim. The existence of this expansion was first alluded to by patch files found in the 1.8 Patch, and it was confirmed by Bethesda on 5 November 2012 with an official announcement trailer. Dragonborn takes place on the island of Solstheim, first visited many moons ago during Bloodmoon. The add-on's plot tasks you with uncovering the identity of the person seemingly controlling the entire population of the island, and stopping them. | Quest Information - Quests — Walkthroughs for new quests Gameplay Information - Creatures — Creatures you may find in Solstheim and Apocrypha - Dragon Riding — A guide to riding dragons - Factions — Various groups occupying Solstheim - Items — A plethora of new items and equipment await you - Magic — New powers and shouts gained from forbidden knowledge - NPCs — Listing of all non-player characters in the game - Places — Various settlements, caves, ruins, and other locations added by Dragonborn - Services — A listing of all the services provided in Solstheim Miscellaneous Information - Achievements — Ten new achievements can be earned after installing Dragonborn - Easter Eggs — Funny, out of place, or reference-related non-bug findings - Historical References — References to people, places, and events from previous Elder Scrolls games - Loading Screens — Thirty new loading screens are added after installing Dragonborn Notes - Dragonborn was subject to a 30-day exclusivity deal with Microsoft, during which it was only available on the Xbox 360. In February 2013, it was released on both PC and PS3. - The soundtrack that plays on Solstheim contains several pieces from the Morrowind soundtrack. See Also - Pre-Release Screenshots - Dragonborn - Official Trailer - "New Dragonborn Details and Screenshots" via IGN - Skyrim Subforum — A place on the UESP forums where you can discuss the expansion


--- [The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonborn - Fandom] ---
The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonborn is the third and final official add-on for the fifth installment in The Elder Scrolls series, Skyrim. The plot involves traveling to the island of Solstheim and the return of a mysterious former dragon priest called Miraak, one-time ruler of the island. Unlike the ancient dragon priests of Skyrim, Miraak was Dragonborn, supposedly the first person to be gifted with the dragon blood, and he possesses the ability to absorb dragon souls, much like the Last Dragonborn. The main quest-line also features traveling to Apocrypha, realm of Hermaeus Mora, Daedric Prince of forbidden knowledge. Here the Dragonborn must recover the mysterious Black Books in order to learn new powers and stop Miraak. In addition, the add-on features a plethora of new quests, characters, dragon shouts, armor, weaponry and the ability to tame and ride dragons. Portal Official summary Journey off the coast of Morrowind, to the island of Solstheim. Encounter new towns, dungeons, and quests, as you traverse the ash wastes and glacial valleys of this new land. Become more powerful with shouts that bend the will of your enemies and even tame dragons. Your fate, and the fate of Solstheim, hangs in the balance as you face off against your deadliest adversary – the first Dragonborn. Solstheim Dragonborn takes place on the island of Solstheim, located north east of Skyrim. The geography of the island bears similar traits to both Vvardenfell and Skyrim and ranges from ash wastes to glacial valleys.[1] The north is dominated by the arctic climate similar to that found in Winterhold Hold, while the south features the jagged landscape reminiscent of the Dunmer homeland. Dunmer migration Following the eruption of Red Mountain in 4E 5, thousands of Dunmer were forced to flee Morrowind. Many crossed over the border into Skyrim seeking refuge, and whilst they were accommodated, the Nords graciously offered them the island of Solstheim as their new home.[2] Locations The mining town of Raven Rock, located on the southern coast, is a far cry from its former days. After the mass Dunmer migration it has taken on a heavy Dunmer influence in its architecture and culture. House Redoran is an established presence as seen by their banners adorning the walls outside the settlement. To the north the Skaal Village, Thirsk Mead Hall and the ruins of Castle Karstaag can be found in the icy tundras. The First Dragonborn - Main article: Miraak The primary antagonist in Dragonborn is Miraak, the mysterious former dragon priest who is revealed to be the first individual gifted with the dragon blood. He ruled over Solstheim thousands of years ago at the behest of Dragons, much like his counterparts in Skyrim, however at some point this changed and he rebelled against the winged overlords. Apocrypha In addition to the island of Solstheim, Dragonborn also involves venturing into the plane of Oblivion known as Apocrypha, domain of the Daedric Prince of forbidden knowledge, Hermaeus Mora. The realm appears as a large citadel-type building with twisted columns and is home to dangerous creatures, such as Seekers and Lurkers. During the course of the add-on, new abilities and powers can be learnt in the realm from mysterious Black Books. Preview trailer A preview trailer was released by Bethesda on 5th November 2012 that showed various aspects of the add-on. Narration He was once one of them, the Dragon Priest. He ruled here in their name, ruled over Solstheim. But he did not serve the Dragons, he devoured them. And like them, he seeks to return. You didn't think that you were the only one? He was the first. Dragonborn! Trailer The trailer begins by showing a ship approaching an island later revealed to be Solstheim. Banners can be seen bearing the crest of House Redoran while the buildings in the background are distinctly Dunmer in origin. This is followed by some imagery relating to dragon priests, such as the Dragon Priest Shrine. Next the narrator is revealed as an elderly Nordic man sitting outside a Skaal village. A few scenes of Solstheim are shown next, including its unique landscape, the Telvanni Tower and a mysterious cave inhabited by netchs. A Dunmer settlement displaying Redoran architecture and a Nordic tomb decorated with dragon skeletons, are also shown. Next an amphitheatre-type structure is shown followed by a smaller structure and upright pillar emitting a green glow. The Dragonborn is then shown reading a book, after which a tentacle ensnares him. The next shot reveals a large citadel-type building with twisted columns as pages of books flutter in the wind. The Dragonborn is then shown inside the Telvanni tower, using some type of levitation device to ascend into a laboratory of sorts, littered with Dwemer scraps. This is followed by a shot of two new armor types, one of which appears to be made of bone with a semi-translucent layer on top. The trailer then shows the Dragonborn climbing on to the back of a new breed of dragon whilst in the citadel realm, followed by various scenes of combat pitting the Dragonborn against a variety of creatures, including spear wielding rieklings, some of whom are riding tusked bristleback war mounts. Several new types of armor and weapons are shown again. Finally the Dragonborn is seen riding a roaring dragon with High Hrothgar in the background. The trailer concludes with a shot of three dragon souls being absorbed by the unnamed former dragon priest, who is purportedly the first Dragonborn. Release Dragonborn was released on December 4th 2012 on Xbox 360, priced at 1600 Microsoft Points. It was later released on PC on February 5th 2013 and on PS3 in North America and Europe on February 12th and 13th 2013.[3][4]


--- [The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Dragonborn - Wikipedia] ---
The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Dragonborn is the third and final add-on for the action role-playing open world video game The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. It was developed by Bethesda Game Studios and released by Bethesda Softworks on the Xbox Live Marketplace on December 4, 2012. The Microsoft Windows version was released on February 5, 2013, and the PlayStation 3 version was released on February 12, 2013.
Dragonborn involves the player character (the current Dragonborn) coming into contact with the first Dragonborn, Miraak. The expansion takes place on the island of Solstheim, previously featured in the Bloodmoon expansion for The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind.


--- [New DLC Available - The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn] ---
Install Steam sign in | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem


--- [Dragonborn DLC - Skyrim Wiki] ---
No content
