=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jonathan Anderson is leaving Loewe after 11 years | Dazed]
Mar 17, 2025 · Known for his proportional play, innovative silhouettes and keen sense of humour, Anderson was made creative director of Loewe in 2013 and presented his first collection for the house in June 2014, a SS15 menswear lookbook.
URL: https://www.dazeddigital.com/fashion/article/65844/1/jonathan-anderson-is-leaving-loewe-after-11-years-exit-lvmh

[The Legacy of Jonathan Anderson's Loewe and What We Can Expect Next]
Feb 7, 2025 · The spring menswear collection marked Anderson’s premier show and the first-ever ready-to-wear menswear line for Loewe. The collection included high canvas cuffed jeans, suede polo shirts, and a waterproof leather jacket. His premier set the tone for what Anderson would accomplish at the brand: a revival of identity and perception.
URL: https://smulook.com/2025/02/07/the-legacy-of-jonathan-andersons-loewe-and-what-we-can-expect-next/

[Jonathan Anderson Says Farewell To Loewe - hauteliving.com]
Mar 20, 2025 · Loewe Creative Director Jonathan Anderson unveiled his final Fall/Winter men’s and women’s ready-to-wear collection during Paris Fashion Week at the 18th-century Hôtel de Maisons. To close ...
URL: https://hauteliving.com/2025/03/jonathan-anderson-says-farewell-to-loewe-with-the-fall-winter-2025-collection/765771/

[Jonathan Anderson Leaves Loewe After 11 Years - Harper's BAZAAR]
Mar 17, 2025 · Meanwhile, Loewe's CEO Pascale Lepoivre praised him for bringing the brand to "new heights". "I am incredibly grateful to Jonathan Anderson for the 11 years of unmatched creativity, passion and ...
URL: https://www.harpersbazaar.com/fashion/a64205645/jonathan-anderson-leaves-loewe/

[Our history]
Northern Irish designer Jonathan Anderson established JW Anderson in 2008. At first, a distinctive collection of accessories quickly garnered attention.
URL: https://jwanderson.com/pages/our-history


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jonathan Anderson is leaving Loewe after 11 years | Dazed] ---
Photography Estrop via Getty ImagesFashion / NewsFashion / NewsJonathan Anderson is leaving Loewe after 11 yearsThe Irish designer’s boundary-breaking run at the Spanish house has come to an endShareLink copied ✔️March 17, 2025March 17, 2025TextElliot HosteLoewe AW25 Today (March 17), the rumour of all rumours has finally become a reality: Jonathan Anderson is leaving Loewe. In a statement posted via Anderson’s personal Instagram this morning, the Irish designer reflected on his time at the house. “They say all good things must come to an end, but I disagree,” Anderson wrote. “While my own chapter draws to a close, Loewe’s story will continue for many years to come and I will look on with pride.” Elsewhere in the statement, Anderson recounted, “since my first day at Loewe I found kindred spirits in the design studio and the atelier, whose talents were, and still are, second to none,” and that he had been “lucky enough to be surrounded by people with the imagination, the skills, tenacity and resourcefulness to find a way to say ‘yes’ to all my wildly ambitious ideas.” In a separate statement, LVMH CEO Sidney Toledano also praised Anderson’s run. “What he has contributed to Loewe goes beyond creativity. He has built a rich and eclectic world with strong foundations in craft which will enable the house to thrive long after his departure.” So far the company has given no indication of who Anderson’s successor may be. Though it’s been looking this way for a while, today’s news still has somewhat of a sting to it. Across his 11 years at the Spanish house, Anderson transformed Loewe from a strong and steady leather goods company to the hyped global megabrand we know today, and his creativity will be missed by fans around the world. In an Instagram video posted on March 9 ahead of the brand’s AW25 Paris Fashion Week presentation, Anderson looked back at his tenure at the house, remembering key moments that included Rihanna’s ruby red Super Bowl outfit, Beyoncé’s Renaissance World Tour bodysuit, campaigns starring Aubrey Plaza, Josh O’Connor and Taylor Russell, plus a whole host of iconic runway looks. As well as those moments, Anderson also paid tribute to the non-fashion side of the business, with the video also featuring many objects from the Loewe Craft Prize which he founded in 2016. When Anderson dropped that post eight days ago, for many the writing was already on the wall. Known for his proportional play, innovative silhouettes and keen sense of humour, Anderson was made creative director of Loewe in 2013 and presented his first collection for the house in June 2014, a SS15 menswear lookbook. Over the years, the Irish designer has given us countless memorable moments, from balloon heels to Puzzle bags, AW22’s car dress to the pixelated hoodies and sculptural anthurium bodices of SS23, bright yellow wader boots to blockbuster runway shows and countless more – the list could go on and on. Whichever designer is chosen to take up the mantle next has impossibly large boots to fill, so chances are LVMH won’t be taking the decision lightly. Whether it’s a well-known name or a designer plucked from relative obscurity, a new era of Loewe is most definitely upon us, so stay tuned for all the latest news coming out of the house. Scroll through the gallery above to check out Anderson’s final collection for Loewe Escape the algorithm! Get The DropEmail address SIGN UP Get must-see stories direct to your inbox every weekday. Privacy policy Thank you. You have been subscribed Privacy policy Expand your creative community and connect with 15,000 creatives from around the world.READ MOREDior AW26: Jonathan Anderson invites us to his (lily) pad Hodakova AW26 wants us to take a long, hard look in the mirror Reebok Your favourite Reeboks are getting a makeoverPerfection and chaos collided at Vaquera’s AW26 showAre you ready for the return of the ‘everyday tiara’?fakemink: ‘I’m the Eminem of the UK underground’Meryll Rogge takes Marni: ‘I need to make sure I don’t fuck it up’ Bottega VenetaLouise Trotter finds sensuality in structure for Bottega Veneta AW26Milan Fashion Week AW26: All the best moments you might’ve missedAll aboard! Ferragamo goes nautical for AW26Brit Awards 2026: The best dressed stars on the red carpetMoschino turned its AW26 runway into a reality showEscape the algorithm! Get The DropEmail address SIGN UP Get must-see stories direct to your inbox every weekday. Privacy policy Thank you. You have been subscribed Privacy policy


--- [The Legacy of Jonathan Anderson's Loewe and What We Can Expect Next] ---
By Mari Sato There are two paths to becoming a truly successful fashion designer. One, launch your own brand and receive critical acclaim, or two, revitalize an existing brand into a leading authority. The latter path can be attributed to Karl Lagerfeld’s transformative work at Chanel, inspiring others to follow in his footsteps. Designers like Marc Jacobs for Louis Vuitton, Tom Ford for Gucci, and Daniel Roseberry at Schiaparelli have revived legacy brands. However, few have successfully reinvented an established fashion house while maintaining their own label. Jonathan Anderson is one of those rare exceptions. Hailing from Northern Ireland, Jonathan Anderson began his career in acting before enrolling in the London College of Fashion. Post-grad, Anderson started his fashion career as a visual merchandiser for Prada in 2005. By 2008 Anderson launched his namesake menswear label, JW Anderson, and soon received high critical praise for juxtaposing masculine and feminine design aesthetics. After numerous successful brand collaborations LVMH bought a minority stake in JW Anderson and hired Anderson as the creative director of Spanish design label Loewe in September 2013. Back in 2013, few people considered Loewe a tastemaker brand. The house had been struggling to bring itself into modernity, remaining confined by the traditional codes established at the brand’s inception in 1846. Anderson knew he wanted to strike 1846 from the record and look at the Madrid-based label from a different perspective. Inspired by the Loewe archives from the 50s-70s and the island of Ibiza, where the designer spent a great deal of his childhood, Anderson debuted his fresh take on the brand in 2014. The spring menswear collection marked Anderson’s premier show and the first-ever ready-to-wear menswear line for Loewe. The collection included high canvas cuffed jeans, suede polo shirts, and a waterproof leather jacket. His premier set the tone for what Anderson would accomplish at the brand: a revival of identity and perception. That same year Anderson revealed the iconic puzzle bag. The modern classic was revolutionary for its geometric and multifunctional design. Not only was it an homage to the leather goods history of the brand but a modern masterpiece encompassing hard lines with a soft silhouette. Although Anderson was successful in growing the brand by 2022 the designer became dissatisfied with the level of visibility the brand was receiving. Anderson decided that Loewe must become one of the top brands people engage in. To accomplish this, Anderson took a turn into surrealism. This shift in design and marketing strategy made way for a plethora of groundbreaking garments. Shoes with balloon heels, tops and pants that appeared pixelated, and even chia-infused garments that had the plant growing out of them. His work appeared less of the work of a modern fashion designer and more so of a graphic designer making skins for metaverse avatars. These collections garnered record-breaking buzz for Loewe and cemented the perception of both the brand and designer as visionaries. However, according to industry sources, Anderson is said to be leaving the brand this January. Rumor has it Anderson will be heading to Dior to take over as creative director. Although this could be the fashion rumor mill getting the better of me, I can’t think of a better designer to take on the position. With Kim Jones, director of Dior Homme, officially leaving the brand, Anderson is the logical choice for a successor. With the added resources of a couture-centered house, there are limitless possibilities for what Anderson will be able to do. But one thing is for certain, Jonathan Anderson will continue to facilitate a stir of cultural discussion about fashion, whether at Loewe, his own brand, or even Dior.


--- [Jonathan Anderson Says Farewell To Loewe - hauteliving.com] ---
Jonathan Anderson Says Farewell To Loewe With The Fall/Winter 2025 Collection Loewe Creative Director Jonathan Anderson unveiled his final Fall/Winter men’s and women’s ready-to-wear collection during Paris Fashion Week at the 18th-century Hôtel de Maisons. To close out his legendary run at the House, Anderson decided upon a presentation rather than his well-known runway shows. Still holding true to the grandeur of his shows, the presentation spanned seventeen rooms where the collection unfolded alongside an eclectic curation of works from Loewe’s own art collection and installations featuring familiar elements from previous shows, campaigns, and the Loewe ateliers. Photo Credit: Courtesy of Loewe Photo Credit: Courtesy of Loewe Anderson refers to this collection as ‘a scrapbook of ideas,’ playing on the House’s infamous codes tropes such as trompe l’oeil, distorted scales, and volumes, all filtered through art and artisanal craft, which led to a collaboration with the Josef & Anni Albers Foundation. The work of mid-century artists serves as his central inspiration and point of departure with nested squares or color blocks from Josef Albers’ Homage to the Square series metamorphosing the brand’s familiar forms of the Puzzle, Flamenco clutch, Amazona, and other bags. Artist Anni Alber’s pictorial weavings, which celebrate thread as a vehicle for artistic exploration, bring a graphic-like tactility to coats and signature bags. Photo Credit: Courtesy of Loewe The dialogue between menswear and womenswear is organic and seamless. Presenting an optical and artistic point of view, soft architectures are drawn on and around the body. Leather is spliced, draped, and elongated, jersey dresses are sculptured into round forms, while familiar wardrobe staples like shirts, knits, and coats, are fused together in blunt hybrids. The collection hones in on the exploration of scale, zooming in and out, with solid silhouettes that are made of micro elements like a tiny ring that becomes a top. Slicing is a key technique used throughout offering an experience to view fashion as something permeable rather than static. Photo Credit: Courtesy of Loewe A Prince of Wales check is seen liquified into bold metallic fringes while dresses in beaded organza strands take on the illusion of see-through. Surface treatments add a sense of granularity, and dense beading weaves throughout, from clothing to accessories and toy mules, while the beloved Ballet Runner 2.0 is recreated in shearling for the cold weather season. A new chapter for the brand for sure with the departure of Jonathan Anderson—and we can’t wait to see where he goes next.


--- [Jonathan Anderson Leaves Loewe After 11 Years - Harper's BAZAAR] ---
It seems like almost every day a major creative director move is announced. After the news last week that Donatella Versace was stepping down from her family's house, and that Demna would be moving from Balenciaga to Gucci, this week begins with the huge, if expected, news that Jonathan Anderson is leaving Loewe after 11 years at the helm. The designer – who showed his first collection for the Spanish fashion house for spring/summer 2015 – has announced his departure from the brand. In a heartfelt statement, he thanked the team for always supporting his ambition with the design direction. "While reflecting on the last 11 years, I have been lucky enough to be surrounded by people with the imagination, the skills, the tenacity and the resourcefulness to find a way to say ‘yes’ to all my wildly ambitious ideas. While my chapter draws to a close, Loewe's story will continue for many years to come, and I will look on with pride, watching it continue to grow, the amazing Spanish brand I once called Home." Although this is another major shake-up for the industry, the news will not come as a shock as it had already been widely rumoured for months. The designer did not show during Paris Fashion Week this month, and also took a season off with his namesake brand in London, and there have been many rumblings about where he may be heading next. Even so, Anderson's tenure at Loewe has been beloved, from his cult handbag designs to his surrealist red-carpet moments, and he will certainly be missed. "Jonathan Anderson is widely considered one of fashion’s most original thinkers," says Avril Mair, Harper's Bazaar's fashion, watches and jewellery director. "That he’s also one of the most commercial – his Loewe bags have been smash hits over his decade at the house while his Uniqlo collaboration has spanned eight years – does nothing to diminish his great creativity. Beloved by celebrities from Zendaya to Harry Styles, he’s also a collaborator with more experimental artists and strongly supports British craft and creators – in fact British tradition is one of his great inspirations, from sophisticated tailoring to everyday classics. He’ll be an almost impossible act to follow." Meanwhile, Loewe's CEO Pascale Lepoivre praised him for bringing the brand to "new heights". "I am incredibly grateful to Jonathan Anderson for the 11 years of unmatched creativity, passion and dedication that he has given to Loewe. With him as its creative director, the house has risen to new heights with international recognition. The Puzzle bag, celebrating its 10th anniversary, has become a true icon, and the brand codes that he has created, rooted in craft, will live on as his legacy." The house has yet to announce a successor, and Anderson is so far keeping quiet on his future career plans.


--- [Our history] ---
No content
