=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Church of the Highlands - Wikipedia]
[9] As of April 10, 2025, Church of the Highlands listed 27 campuses in Alabama and Georgia. Its most recently built campus is the Opelika campus in Opelika, Alabama that hosted its first services on April 13, 2025 for Easter weekend. [10] In 2023, the church opened "The Lodge at Grants Mill" on its main campus in Irondale, Alabama.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_Highlands

[Church of the Highlands opens $4.5 million 'pastoral recovery' center. ...]
Jul 10, 2023 · The Church of the Highlands' The Lodge at Grants Mill in May 2023 in Irondale, Alabama. The BIrmingham-based church describes the building as a place where pastors “from all over the world ...
URL: https://www.al.com/news/2023/07/church-of-the-highlands-opens-45-million-pastoral-recovery-center-what-is-it.html

[Church of the Highlands opens $4.5 million 'pastoral recovery' center ...]
Earlier this year the Church of the Highlands, a Birmingham-based nondenominational church that claims a weekly attendance of more than 50,000 congregants across 22 campuses in Alabama, opened a new multi-million-dollar center called The Lodge at Grants Mill on its main campus in Irondale.
URL: https://nnpa.org/church-of-the-highlands-opens-4-5-million-pastoral-recovery-center-what-is-it/

[Church of the Highlands - Bhamwiki]
Nov 9, 2025 · In 2019 the church announced that its "Highlands College" ministerial educational program would share the Grandview campus. In early 2020 Church of the Highlands bought the adjoining Grandview Plaza office building, parking deck and warehouse/distribution center from Daniel Corporation for future expansion of the college campus.
URL: https://www.bhamwiki.com/w/Church_of_the_Highlands

[Church of the Highlands — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2]
As of February 5, 2022, Church of the Highlands listed 25 campuses in Alabama and Georgia. [8] Its most recent purpose-built campus is the Woodlawn Campus near Birmingham Shuttlesworth International Airport. It opened on September 11, 2022. [9] In 2023, the church opened "The Lodge at Grants Mill" on its main campus in Irondale, Alabama.
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/Church_of_the_Highlands


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Church of the Highlands - Wikipedia] ---
Church of the Highlands is a non-denominational evangelical Christian multi-site megachurch  based in Birmingham, Alabama. It is the largest congregation in Alabama with an average of 60,000 attendees every week as of 2024. The lead pastor is currently Mark Pettus.


--- [Church of the Highlands opens $4.5 million 'pastoral recovery' center. ...] ---
Update: After this story published, The Church of the Highlands provided a statement and interview to AL.com. See the story here. Alabama’s largest evangelical megachurch has opened a facility for a pastor restoration program that in the past has sparked controversy and drawn scrutiny. Earlier this year the Church of the Highlands, a Birmingham-based nondenominational church that claims a weekly attendance of more than 50,000 congregants across 22 campuses in Alabama, opened a new multi-million-dollar center called The Lodge at Grants Mill on its main campus in Irondale. Highlands founder and Senior Pastor Chris Hodges has described the Lodge as a “pastoral recovery center” and a place where pastors “from all over the world” can “rest, worship and grow.” It’s an outgrowth of Hodges’ long-term involvement in pastoral restoration, a broad, catch-all term used in evangelical Christian circles to describe a program of faith-based counseling and support typically used by churches to help a pastor work through an issue that triggered removal from leadership. Hodges told the crowd at a church leadership event in 2021 that he and Highlands Associate Pastor Dino Rizzo were “in the middle of about 20 pastoral, moral failures or restorations right now.” “I love doing that,” Hodges said at the time. “I want to be known for that.” But after sexual assault allegations became public against Micahn Carter, a Highlands pastor that church officials later admitted had been working at the church while quietly undergoing a pastoral restoration process, some critics and former staff and congregants have raised questions about the Lodge and the church’s pastoral restoration efforts. They’ve asked for more clarity about who the program serves and how those pastors might interact with staff and church members. “My biggest concern is, are they being transparent with the congregation and staff about who will be at the Lodge?” said Lauren Shackleford, a former employee and member of Church of the Highlands. “How often would (the pastors undergoing restoration) be around other people? Are they teaching? Are they leading small groups? Are they dangerous?” “If they’re restoring pastors who are struggling in their lives with something (like depression or suicidal thoughts), that’s admirable. But we don’t know. I feel like the people who are at Highlands deserve to know who’s there with them.” Shackleford worked at Highlands at the same time as Carter, who’d come to Highlands after pastoring a church in Washington state. She said the staff were not told about potential sexual assault allegations against him, and instead were told he was at Highlands due to a financial hardship situation with his previous church. After the allegations became public, Highlands leaders admitted publicly that Carter had been brought to Highlands to undergo pastoral restoration. He was removed from staff. Carter later sued his accuser for defamation. His attorney told Reckon that Carter has no further comment and that the lawsuit is ongoing. “What worries me,” said Dee Parsons, who writes about church issues on her website and who has followed Highlands’ pastoral restoration efforts since visiting the church a few times with family, “is that I’m not sure they understand that a pastor who has had an affair with a church member, it’s not an affair, in my opinion. It’s clerical abuse. “If they’re going to take these guys, splash some cold water on their faces and tell them to get back in the pulpit, I think you’re going to see problems.” Representatives from the Church of the Highlands declined repeated requests from Reckon in 2022 and 2023 to share details about the Lodge, the pastoral restoration process and what kind of issues it is intended to address. In response to a 2022 request for information about the building and what services it would provide, Hodges’ executive assistant referred a reporter to the church’s website and said the church wanted to make sure that updates about the Lodge came “directly from Pastor Chris.” Church leaders have not spoken publicly about what types of moral failures or personal issues their program addresses, how pastors are accepted into the program or whether participants are kept separate from congregants. But a look at the church’s pastoral restoration efforts, as well as pastoral restoration more broadly, sheds some light on a ministry that attempts to bring troubled pastors back into the fold. The Lodge The Lodge at Grants Mill sits on a scenic stretch of property just north of the Cahaba River, on a hill behind the church. A paved path connects the building to the main Church of the Highlands parking lot and buildings. In November 2021, Church of the Highlands submitted a building permit application to the City of Irondale for a 6,500 square-foot facility called “The Lodge Pastoral Retreat.” The application, acquired via a public records request, lists an estimated construction cost of $3.8 million. A September 2021 Highlands report made public by religion reporter Julie Roys listed an estimated construction cost of $4.5 million. According to a video tour that Hodges shared on his Instagram account in April, the facility features a spacious meeting rooms with rustic beamed ceilings, furnished bedrooms for overnight guests, dining spaces that can accommodate a crowd, and outdoor gathering areas that include a stone fire pit ringed with Adirondack chairs. In the video, Hodges tells his congregation that “through the leadership of our Board of Trustees and your generosity, we have a place where (pastors) can be hosted, refreshed and trained.” In May, the Lodge hosted a crowd of pastors as part of a two-day, $5,000-per-person roundtable event hosted by GrowLeader, a for-profit limited liability company launched by Hodges and run by Highlands senior pastor Lee Domingue. The company offers a range of services, including paid mentoring with Hodges and financial coaching with Domingue. It’s unclear how or if the company supports the Lodge. The Church of the Highlands does not publicly disclose details of its financial transactions. As a religious organization, it is exempt from filing annual returns with the IRS. Pastor restoration at Church of the Highlands Pastoral restoration can look different from denomination to denomination, and even from church to church. It’s typically a process intended to be both spiritual and practical, using prayer, counseling, accountability meetings and other methods to address a pastor’s behavior. “I think of pastoral restoration as a programmatic attempt on the part of a church or church leaders to reinstate a pastor after some kind of scandal or moral failing, after the offending sin has come to light,” said Katelyn Beaty, an author, podcast host and former managing editor of Christianity Today whose work often examines the role celebrity pastors play in evangelical churches. Hodges undertook his first pastoral restoration about a decade ago, for his longtime friend and now Highlands Associate Pastor Dino Rizzo. In 2012, Rizzo was asked to leave the popular Baton Rouge church he pastored and had founded. Hodges brought Rizzo to Birmingham, telling his congregation that Rizzo had been involved in “a brief but inappropriate friendship” at his previous church with a woman who was not his wife. Hodges said he and leaders at Rizzo’s Baton Rouge church created a “restoration” plan for Rizzo. Hodges told industry publication Ministry Today that it was the first time he’d ever attempted pastoral restoration. “I so desperately wanted there to be a model,” he said, adding that he believes churches have the responsibility to help ministers who are willing to go through the restoration process. Rizzo is now a senior pastor and is on Highlands’ leadership team. He’s also the executive director of The Association of Related Churches (ARC), a global cooperative of thousands of evangelical churches that was co-founded by Hodges. Highlands is a member church of ARC, as was Micahn Carter’s previous church. Hodges’ son Michael has also been through a pastoral restoration process. Michael Hodges was removed from his position as campus pastor at one of Highlands’ satellite campuses in 2017 for what his father said was a “moral failing.” At the time, Baton Rouge pastor Larry Stockstill said Chris Hodges asked him to “take charge of the process of bringing discipline and long-term restoration to Michael,” according to Stockstill. Michael Hodges returned to public ministry two years later. Shackleford said she worked at Highlands with a male staffer who had come from another ARC church in Washington state and had been installed at Highlands working in student ministry. She later learned the man had been accused of sexual harassment at his previous church. He eventually left Highlands and rejoined the staff at that church. While he was working at Highlands, she said, the staff was only told he was there to “learn from us.” “In the moment, I was like, sure, that’s fine,” she said. “But looking back, I’m pretty sure that was a restoration.” Add that experience to her interactions with Carter, she said, and she has questions about staff safety and transparency. “It’s kind of scary.” When problems arise There is no set timeline for a “restored” pastor to return to ministry. Chuck DeGroat, a licensed therapist and a professor of pastoral care and Christian spirituality at Western Theological Seminary, often advises that pastors should sit out of ministry for 10 years. Not many people follow that timeline, Beaty said. “It’s much more common for the person to be rushed back, out of a sense that we (as Christians) want to be people who are forgiving, loving, gracious,” she said. Problems arise if the pastor is returned to ministry in a manner that doesn’t address the harm he caused or the need for repentance and change, she said. Parsons, who has written extensively about clergy abuse on her website, said she thinks more resources should be directed toward the people the pastor has harmed, rather than the pastors themselves. Pastors play an outsized role in their communities because they are considered by their congregations as spiritual counselors who can bring them closer to God, said Everett Worthington, a psychologist and professor emeritus at Virginia Commonwealth University whose research focuses include psychology’s intersection with religion and forgiveness. This is why the pastoral restoration process can be tricky to get right, he said. “This is not just an ordinary guy in the community who has done a bad thing,” said Worthington. “This person is a spiritual father. There’s an emotional loading to this situation that’s not there with somebody in a similar (non-spiritual) leadership position, say, your boss at work.” When the restoration process is outsourced to an organization outside of the pastor’s home church, some of the accountability and transparency that’s necessary for church healing can be lost, Beaty said. “Those accountability structures need to be woven into the life of the church, rather than just being exported out.” Shackleford said the idea behind giving pastors a place to rest and recharge is a good one. “Ministry is so mentally, physically and emotionally taxing, it’s easy to get burnt out and you don’t know who’s struggling,” she said. “That’s something my husband and I dealt with. Having a place for pastors to come who feel like they have nothing else to give would be great.” But she said that if Highlands plans to make pastoral restoration at the Lodge a permanent ministry, she hopes that Hodges and other leaders will be open about what the ministry does and doesn’t do. “(Highlands leadership) have a history of not being very transparent with things they think are scandalous or could cause a problem,” she said. “They’ll see (not sharing information about the Lodge) as protecting these pastors, but it comes off as being suspicious. “Complete transparency would be the healthiest thing they could do.”


--- [Church of the Highlands opens $4.5 million 'pastoral recovery' center ...] ---
Alabama’s largest evangelical megachurch has opened a facility for a pastor restoration program that in the past has sparked controversy and drawn scrutiny. Earlier this year the Church of the Highlands, a Birmingham-based nondenominational church that claims a weekly attendance of more than 50,000 congregants across 22 campuses in Alabama, opened a new multi-million-dollar center called The Lodge at Grants Mill on its main campus in Irondale. Highlands founder and Senior Pastor Chris Hodges has described the Lodge as a “pastoral recovery center” and a place where pastors “from all over the world” can “rest, worship and grow.” It’s an outgrowth of Hodges’ long-term involvement in pastoral restoration, a broad, catch-all term used in evangelical Christian circles to describe a program of faith-based counseling and support typically used by churches to help a pastor work through an issue that triggered removal from leadership. Hodges told the crowd at a church leadership event in 2021 that he and Highlands Associate Pastor Dino Rizzo were “in the middle of about 20 pastoral, moral failures or restorations right now.” “I love doing that,” Hodges said at the time. “I want to be known for that.” But after sexual assault allegations became public against Micahn Carter, a Highlands pastor that church officials later admitted had been working at the church while quietly undergoing a pastoral restoration process, some critics and former staff and congregants have raised questions about the Lodge and the church’s pastoral restoration efforts. They’ve asked for more clarity about who the program serves and how those pastors might interact with staff and church members. “My biggest concern is, are they being transparent with the congregation and staff about who will be at the Lodge?” said Lauen Shackleford, a former employee and member of Church of the Highlands. “How often would (the pastors undergoing restoration) be around other people? Are they teaching? Are they leading small groups? Are they dangerous?” “If they’re restoring pastors who are struggling in their lives with something (like depression or suicidal thoughts), that’s admirable. But we don’t know. I feel like the people who are at Highlands deserve to know who’s there with them.” Shackleford worked at Highlands at the same time as Carter, who’d come to Highlands after pastoring a church in Washington state. She said the staff were not told about potential sexual assault allegations against him, and instead were told he was at Highlands due to a financial hardship situation with his previous church. After the allegations became public, Highlands leaders admitted publicly that Carter had been brought to Highlands to undergo pastoral restoration. He was removed from staff. Carter later sued his accuser for defamation. His attorney told Reckon that Carter has no further comment and that the lawsuit is ongoing. “What worries me,” said Dee Parsons, who writes about church issues on her website and who has followed Highlands’ pastoral restoration efforts since visiting the church a few times with family, “is that I’m not sure they understand that a pastor who has had an affair with a church member, it’s not an affair, in my opinion. It’s clerical abuse. “If they’re going to take these guys, splash some cold water on their faces and tell them to get back in the pulpit, I think you’re going to see problems.” Representatives from the Church of the Highlands declined repeated requests from Reckon in 2022 and 2023 to share details about the Lodge, the pastoral restoration process and what kind of issues it is intended to address. In response to a 2022 request for information about the building and what services it would provide, Hodges’ executive assistant referred a reporter to the church’s website and said the church wanted to make sure that updates about the Lodge came “directly from Pastor Chris.” Church leaders have not spoken publicly about what types of moral failures or personal issues their program addresses, how pastors are accepted into the program or whether participants are kept separate from congregants. But a look at the church’s pastoral restoration efforts, as well as pastoral restoration more broadly, sheds some light on a ministry that attempts to bring troubled pastors back into the fold. The Lodge The Lodge at Grants Mill sits on a scenic stretch of property just north of the Cahaba River, on a hill behind the church. A paved path connects the building to the main Church of the Highlands parking lot and buildings. In November 2021, Church of the Highlands submitted a building permit application to the City of Irondale for a 6,500 square-foot facility called “The Lodge Pastoral Retreat.” The application, acquired via a public records request, lists an estimated construction cost of $3.8 million. A September 2021 Highlands report made public by religion reporter Julie Roys listed an estimated construction cost of $4.5 million. According to a video tour that Hodges shared on his Instagram account in April, the facility features a spacious meeting rooms with rustic beamed ceilings, furnished bedrooms for overnight guests, dining spaces that can accommodate a crowd, and outdoor gathering areas that include a stone fire pit ringed with Adirondack chairs. In the video, Hodges tells his congregation that “through the leadership of our Board of Trustees and your generosity, we have a place where (pastors) can be hosted, refreshed and trained.” In May, the Lodge hosted a crowd of pastors as part of a two-day, $5,000-per-person roundtable event hosted by GrowLeader, a for-profit limited liability company launched by Hodges and run by Highlands senior pastor Lee Domingue. The company offers a range of services, including paid mentoring with Hodges and financial coaching with Domingue. It’s unclear how or if the company supports the Lodge. The Church of the Highlands does not publicly disclose details of its financial transactions. As a religious organization, it is exempt from filing annual returns with the IRS. Pastor restoration at Church of the Highlands Pastoral restoration can look different from denomination to denomination, and even from church to church. It’s typically a process intended to be both spiritual and practical, using prayer, counseling, accountability meetings and other methods to address a pastor’s behavior. “I think of pastoral restoration as a programmatic attempt on the part of a church or church leaders to reinstate a pastor after some kind of scandal or moral failing, after the offending sin has come to light,” said Katelyn Beaty, an author, podcast host and former managing editor of Christianity Today whose work often examines the role celebrity pastors play in evangelical churches. Hodges undertook his first pastoral restoration about a decade ago, for his longtime friend and now Highlands Associate Pastor Dino Rizzo. In 2012, Rizzo was asked to leave the popular Baton Rouge church he pastored and had founded. Hodges brought Rizzo to Birmingham, telling his congregation that Rizzo had been involved in “a brief but inappropriate friendship” at his previous church with a woman who was not his wife. Hodges said he and leaders at Rizzo’s Baton Rouge church created a “restoration” plan for Rizzo. Hodges told industry publication Ministry Today that it was the first time he’d ever attempted pastoral restoration. “I so desperately wanted there to be a model,” he said, adding that he believes churches have the responsibility to help ministers who are willing to go through the restoration process. Rizzo is now a senior pastor and is on Highlands’ leadership team. He’s also the executive director of The Association of Related Churches (ARC), a global cooperative of thousands of evangelical churches that was co-founded by Hodges. Highlands is a member church of ARC, as was Micahn Carter’s previous church. Hodges’ son Michael has also been through a pastoral restoration process. Michael Hodges was removed from his position as campus pastor at one of Highlands’ satellite campuses in 2017 for what his father said was a “moral failing.” At the time, Baton Rouge pastor Larry Stockstill said Chris Hodges asked him to “take charge of the process of bringing discipline and long-term restoration to Michael,” according to Stockstill. Michael Hodges returned to public ministry two years later. Shackleford said she worked at Highlands with a male staffer who had come from another ARC church in Washington state and had been installed at Highlands working in student ministry. She later learned the man had been accused of sexual harassment at his previous church. He eventually left Highlands and rejoined the staff at that church. While he was working at Highlands, she said, the staff was only told he was there to “learn from us.” “In the moment, I was like, sure, that’s fine,” she said. “But looking back, I’m pretty sure that was a restoration.” Add that experience to her interactions with Carter, she said, and she has questions about staff safety and transparency. “It’s kind of scary.” When problems arise There is no set timeline for a “restored” pastor to return to ministry. Chuck DeGroat, a licensed therapist and a professor of pastoral care and Christian spirituality at Western Theological Seminary, often advises that pastors should sit out of ministry for 10 years. Not many people follow that timeline, Beaty said. “It’s much more common for the person to be rushed back, out of a sense that we (as Christians) want to be people who are forgiving, loving, gracious,” she said. Problems arise if the pastor is returned to ministry in a manner that doesn’t address the harm he caused or the need for repentance and change, she said. Parsons, who has written extensively about clergy abuse on her website, said she thinks more resources should be directed toward the people the pastor has harmed, rather than the pastors themselves. Pastors play an outsized role in their communities because they are considered by their congregations as spiritual counselors who can bring them closer to God, said Everett Worthington, a psychologist and professor emeritus at Virginia Commonwealth University whose research focuses include psychology’s intersection with religion and forgiveness. This is why the pastoral restoration process can be tricky to get right, he said. “This is not just an ordinary guy in the community who has done a bad thing,” said Worthington. “This person is a spiritual father. There’s an emotional loading to this situation that’s not there with somebody in a similar (non-spiritual) leadership position, say, your boss at work.” When the restoration process is outsourced to an organization outside of the pastor’s home church, some of the accountability and transparency that’s necessary for church healing can be lost, Beaty said. “Those accountability structures need to be woven into the life of the church, rather than just being exported out.” Shackleford said the idea behind giving pastors a place to rest and recharge is a good one. “Ministry is so mentally, physically and emotionally taxing, it’s easy to get burnt out and you don’t know who’s struggling,” she said. “That’s something my husband and I dealt with. Having a place for pastors to come who feel like they have nothing else to give would be great.” But she said that if Highlands plans to make pastoral restoration at the Lodge a permanent ministry, she hopes that Hodges and other leaders will be open about what the ministry does and doesn’t do. “(Highlands leadership) have a history of not being very transparent with things they think are scandalous or could cause a problem,” she said. “They’ll see (not sharing information about the Lodge) as protecting these pastors, but it comes off as being suspicious. “Complete transparency would be the healthiest thing they could do.”


--- [Church of the Highlands - Bhamwiki] ---
Church of the Highlands The Church of the Highlands is a nondenominational megachurch and founding church of the Association of Related Churches (ARC). It was founded in 2001 by Chris Hodges with 34 charter members. It has since grown to serve between 55,000 and 60,000 attendees on any given week at more than 20 locations. Hodges served as senior pastor until 2025, when he was succeeded by Mark Pettus. Hodges launched the church with a mass mailing and drew 300 visitors to its first service on February 4 of that year at the Mountain Brook High School auditorium, though only about 200 showed up for the next week's service. Attendance remained steady from there until the first Sunday following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington D.C. when the auditorium was filled to its 1,000-seat capacity. A second morning service was added beginning on Easter Sunday in 2002. As the congregation grew, additional morning services were added to the schedule and branch locations were opened in Riverchase, Greystone, Tuscaloosa, Auburn and Montgomery, equipped with video projectors to simulcast Hodges' Sunday sermons. Hodges says that the growth of the church comes from word of mouth, and results from making the services an "experience". In 2005 the church purchased a 125-acre site at Grants Mill Road and Overton Road for $7 million and began planning a new $15 million main campus with a 2,400 seat high-tech sanctuary. The new building, designed by Garrison Barrett Group, opened on June 24, 2007 and includes a 1,000-seat youth auditorium, offices, child care facilities, 1,700 parking spaces, and a coffee shop. Instead of holding Sunday school on campus, the church organizes small groups that meet in homes, parks and restaurants. Cameras in the main sanctuary provide a video feed which is transmitted to the adjoining youth auditorium, and by satellite to the other campuses. In 2008 the church finalized plans to purchase and renovate the Eastern Health Center and the historic Birmingham Fire Station No. 12 from the Jefferson County Health Department in order to create "the Dream Center", a clinic and mission outreach facility in Woodlawn. The church also provides prison ministries in numerous correctional facilities in the state. In 2017 the church began partnering with the Housing Authority of the Birmingham District to operate the Campus of Hope at Marks Village, a prototype resource center for public housing communities. In December 2008, Outreach magazine named Church of the Highlands the fastest growing church in the nation. In a one-year period ending in spring 2008, attendance had jumped 72% to 8,168. At the time the article was published Pastor Hodges stated that attendance at the 4 locations had grown by another 2,500 members since the magazine completed its research. In 2019 the church announced that its "Highlands College" ministerial educational program would share the Grandview campus. In early 2020 Church of the Highlands bought the adjoining Grandview Plaza office building, parking deck and warehouse/distribution center from Daniel Corporation for future expansion of the college campus. In June of that year, the Birmingham Board of Education voted to terminate its agreements with the church to use the auditoriums at Woodlawn High School and Parker High School because Hodges engaged positively with social media posts by white supremacist Charlie Kirk. Both of those branches moved together to the BJCC Theatre, with the Woodlawn congregation later moving into a new worship center at the site of the former Gibson Elementary School in 2022. Pastors - Chris Hodges, 2001–2025 - Mark Pettus, 2025– Church campuses Before 2005 Church of the Highlands operated satellite campuses at Riverchase, Greystone, Tuscaloosa, Auburn and Montgomery. By 2008, the church was active in the Woodlawn neighborhood, with a branch congregation meeting at Woodlawn High School and its Dream Center and Christ Health ministries across the street. In 2020 Highlands purchased the former Gibson Elementary School for a new Woodlawn campus, which held its first services on September 11, 2022. In 2012 it renovated an office building to create a new 780-seat building for its Greystone campus. In 2013 a new campus was launched in Fultondale. They initially met at the Fultondale Elementary School, but soon moved to Tarrant High School. By December 2013, as it was preparing to open its first Huntsville campus, the church claimed weekly attendance of around 18,600 at nine locations. In February 2016 Church of the Highlands opened a 13th campus in Gadsden. In May of that year, it purchased the former Cahaba Grand Conference Center as its Grandview campus. That campus was expanded by 12 acres in 2021 with SCP Stonegate's donation of undeveloped land behind the offices from Site One Landscaping. In February 2018 Church of the Highlands opened a 17th campus in Oxford. By the end of that year, it had opened an 18th campus at Parker High School in Smithfield (led by Mayo Sowell), and a 19th in Mobile. Construction on a permanent building for the Fultondale campus began in late 2018. In April 2019 Highlands opened their 20th campus in Sylacauga. In July 2019 the Huntsville campus opened their new building in a permanent location. In August 2019 Highlands opened their 21st campus in Columbus, Georgia. In December 2019 a permanent building for the Fultondale campus was opened in time for Christmas services that year. In September 2020 Church of the Highlands purchased 17 acres in two parcels at 8425 and 8495 Montevallo Road (Alabama State Highway 119) in Alabaster. That same month, the church opened an "Uptown" campus which meets at the BJCC Theater. Pastoral recovery Church of the Highlands has participated in supervising the "restoration" process of pastors who left other Association of Related Churches congregations due to inappropriate sexual relationships. Dino Rizzo left the Healing Place Church he founded in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in 2012 and was hired as an associate pastor and as executive director of the ARC the following year while attending counseling with his wife. Chris Hodges' own son, Michael Hodges, left his role as pastor of Church of the Highlands' Greystone campus in fall 2017 due to an unspecified "moral failing" and was succeeded by Charles Kelly. Chris Hodges enlisted the help of Baton Rouge pastor Larry Stockstill to take charge of a "process of bringing discipline and long-term restoration to Michael." Hodges returned to the pulpit in February 2019 and was later hired as special projects director at Highlands College. Micahn Carter left the Together Church in Yakima, Washington in 2019 and was brought onto the staff of Church of the Highlands soon later. After Carter was more specifically accused of having raped an employee, he was dismissed. In 2021 Hodges stated at a church leadership event that he and Rizzo were "in the middle of about 20 pastoral, moral failures or restorations right now." Hodges told the crowd at a church leadership event in 2021 that he and Highlands Associate Pastor Dino Rizzo were “in the middle of about 20 pastoral, moral failures or restorations right now.” In 2023 Church of the Highlands opened "The Lodge at Grants Mill," a 6,500 square-foot residential facility for the restoration programs, and as "a place where [pastors] can be hosted, refreshed and trained." The lodge has also hosted events for GrowLeader, a for-profit founded by Hodges and managed by Lee Domingue. References - Garrison, Greg (June 24, 2007) "5,000-member church moves to new campus." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (December 7, 2008) "Birmingham's Church of the Highlands named fastest-growing church in U.S." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (February 5, 2011) "Birmingham-area Church of the Highlands grows to megachurch status with high-energy worship, low-pressure finances." The Birmingham News - Anderson, Jon (December 7, 2012) "Church of the Highlands to open new Greystone campus this Sunday" The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (August 9, 2013) "After 'inappropriate' relationship, megachurch pastor Dino Rizzo joins Church of the Highlands staff." The Birmingham News - Campbell, Kay (December 20, 2013) "Birmingham's Church of the Highlands to launch Huntsville campus." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (May 2, 2016) "Alabama's largest church buys conference center on U.S. 280." The Birmingham News - Burch, Edward (June 15, 2016) "Church of the Highlands continues to see growth." ABC3340.com - Garrison, Greg (October 6, 2017) "Church of the Highlands founder's son out as Greystone pastor." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (February 2, 2018) "Church of the Highlands set to open Oxford branch" The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (October 8, 2018) "Ex-Auburn player preaches at Church of Highlands downtown branch." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (February 5, 2019) "Church of the Highlands’ 500-student college plans to move, expand." The Birmingham News - Van der Bijl, Hanno (January 10, 2020) "Church of the Highlands buys U.S. 280 properties for college campus in $34.9M deals." Birmingham Business Journal - Garrison, Greg (June 9, 2020) “Birmingham schools, housing authority cut ties with Church of the Highlands” The Birmingham News - Van der Bijl, Hanno (September 25, 2020) "Church of the Highlands buys Alabaster properties for $2.25M." Birmingham Business Journal - Garrison, Greg (February 4, 2021) "Pastor Chris Hodges talks 20 years of amazing growth at the Church of the Highlands." The Birmingham News - Garrison, Greg (July 31, 2021) "Church of the Highlands cuts ties with minister accused of sex abuse." The Birmingham News - Coker, Angel (October 15, 2021) "SCP Stonegate LLC donates portion of SiteOne Landscaping property to Church of the Highlands Greystone." Birmingham Business Journal - Garrison, Greg (September 10, 2022) "Church of the Highlands opens Woodlawn branch campus" The Birmingham News - Vollers, Anna Claire (July 10, 2023) "Church of the Highlands opens $4.5 million ‘pastoral recovery’ center. What is it?" AL.com - Rebman, Stephanie (February 2, 2025) "Church of the Highlands names new lead pastor." Birmingham Business Journal - Garrison, Greg (February 3, 2025) "Why Church of the Highlands Pastor Chris Hodges left the top job at megachurch he founded." AL.com External links - Church of the Highlands website


--- [Church of the Highlands — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2] ---
No content
