=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia]
Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 – April 15, 2015) was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism with Barbara Love, and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women's rights in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sidney_Abbott

[Longtime lesbian-feminist activist Sidney Abbott dies]
Apr 17, 2015 · Abbott joined the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1969 and was one of the first people to speak out about the rights of lesbians to other NOW members. She was on the founding board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and was a member of the Lavender Menace. She also founded the Women’s Rights are Human Rights nonprofit.
URL: https://windycitytimes.com/2015/04/17/longtime-lesbian-feminist-activist-sidney-abbott-dies/

[Sidney Abbott – North Fork Women]
She joined the National Organization for Women in 1969 and fought for lesbian rights, pushing for a NOW task force that would focus on lesbian issues together with Love. Abbott said her being a feminist activist was due to her mother's "long line of Quakers" and her father's "rebellious" Scots.
URL: https://www.northforkwomen.org/portfolio/sidney-abbott/

[Sidney Abbott: Sappho's 'Right-On Woman' - The Gay & Lesbian Review]
Nov 2, 2015 · In 1969, she joined the National Organization for Women (NOW), becoming a leading spokeswoman for lesbian rights on the organization’s panels. At the time, Betty Friedan, the president of NOW, did not support Sidney’s efforts.
URL: https://glreview.org/article/sidney-abbott-sapphos-right-on-woman/

[Friends remember author and activist Sidney Abbott at memorial]
May 11, 2015 · Ms. Abbott joined the National Organization for Women in 1969 and became one of the first people to speak out for lesbian rights on panels at the New York chapter of NOW and at Columbia University, where she was a graduate student. At the time, lesbian-rights efforts met with opposition from then-NOW president Betty Friedan.
URL: https://suffolktimes.archive.timesreview.com/2015/05/friends-remember-author-and-activist-sidney-abbott-at-memorial/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia] ---
Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 – April 15, 2015) was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism with Barbara Love, and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women's rights in general, but lesbian rights, as well.




--- [Longtime lesbian-feminist activist Sidney Abbott dies] ---
Sidney Abbott, 77, a longtime New York City-based lesbian-feminist activist, died April 15 in a house fire in Southold, Suffolk County New York. The cause of the fire is currently under investigation. She co-authored a ground-breaking book with Barbara Love in 1971, Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism. Abbott was born July 11, 1937 in Washington, D.C., to a military family. Her father went to West Point and later was an aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur during World War II. Abbott attended Smith College for three years before graduating from the University of Albuquerque, New Mexico with a bachelor’s degree in art history in 1961. She studied urban planning in graduate school at Columbia University. Abbott is survived by her her nephew David Abbott of Brooklyn and a sister-in-law, Jane Abbott. She is also survived by her dog, Missy, and peacock, Henrietta. Abbott joined the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1969 and was one of the first people to speak out about the rights of lesbians to other NOW members. She was on the founding board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and was a member of the Lavender Menace. She also founded the Women’s Rights are Human Rights nonprofit. Her personal archives are in the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College and the Radcliffe College feminist collection of NOW biographies. Abbott was a program developer for two departments in the New York City government and was the first openly gay person appointed to the community planning board by the Manhattan Borough President. “Sidney was a great person with a big heart and a very big part of my life,” said Barbara Love; vice-president of development at the Veteran Feminists of America (VFA), author and longtime close friend. “In fact, I spoke to her just an hour before the fire and she was in good spirits at the time. I met her in 1967 and we lived together for several years. It was at that time that we wrote our book together which was the first non-fiction book to depict lesbians in a positive light. “We were out and proud lesbians when it wasn’t fashionable to do so and we fought for lesbian acceptance within the women’s movement particularly within NOW. She was a great storyteller and would regale us with very detailed stories about everything. She was a quintessential conversationalist. She leaves a hole in my heart and I will miss her terribly.” Jackie Ceballos, former president of New York NOW, and a founder and former president for 20 years of VFA said of her friend: “I’ve known Sidney since the beginning of NOW. We met in 1967 and worked together as activists for many years. Sidney was always level-headed and worked from within to change the way NOW interacted with the lesbian movement. She was always a unifying force within the feminist and lesbian worlds and was one of the people who opened up Betty Friedan and other straight feminists to the lesbian world. It was a shock to me when I heard that she died in such a horrible way. She was a darling person and unifying force in so many ways. I will miss her very, very much.” “In 1995, Barbara arranged for Sidney to move into my apartment and I was glad to have her come live with me because she was able to do things on the computer that I couldn’t,” said Joan Nixon, former aide to Rep. Bella Abzug and longtime friend of Abbott. “Before I realized I was a lesbian I got Sidney’s book and after I read it everything changed for me. Her book opened my eyes to the concept of women loving other women and it was then that I realized that this applied to me. We spoke the morning of her death and at that time she was in great spirits and was looking forward to the next chapter of her life. She is finally free of the lift chair that confined her during the last years of her life. I feel that Sidney’s spirit is with me, that she hasn’t gone away and will always be with me. She was a wonderful, sharp person and I look forward to celebrating her life in the years to come.” Eleanor Pam, PhD, president of VFA, a professor emerita from City University of New York, said Sidney “was a very old and dear friend whom I’ve known for almost five decades. We met during the early days and work of Second Wave Feminism. She was a double pioneer as an advocate for women’s rights as well as lesbian rights. She was a passionate, brilliant, effective and extraordinary force for human rights. Sidney was a smart and articulate activist with a keen sense of justice. She had an instinctive reflexive antipathy towards injustice against which she moved forcefully. She leaves a gap among her friends who loved her dearly and I will miss her forever.” Memorial services are pending. Abbott’s ashes will be buried in Long Island, New York.


--- [Sidney Abbott – North Fork Women] ---
No content


--- [Sidney Abbott: Sappho's 'Right-On Woman' - The Gay & Lesbian Review] ---
No content


--- [Friends remember author and activist Sidney Abbott at memorial] ---
Friends remember author and activist Sidney Abbott at memorial Sidney Abbott was a lot of things to many different people. To some, she was a noted feminist and lesbian rights activist. To others she was a warm friend and champion for the underdog. To her nephew, David Abbott, she was his “cool aunt who lived in the Village.” Friends and family gathered for a memorial service at North Fork United Methodist Church in Cutchogue Saturday to share their stories about Ms. Abbott, who died in an April 15 fire at her Southold home. She was 77. In 1972, Ms. Abbott and Barbara Love co-wrote a book called “Sappho was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism.” “It was the first non-fiction book with a positive view of the lesbian lifestyle,” Ms. Love recalled at Saturday’s memorial, which was attended by about 60 people. “It was published in 1972, when we were still considered sick by the American Psychiatric Association.” Ms. Love read from the introduction of the book: “”Our goal is to be able to go about our lives as human beings, as women, as lesbians, unselfconsciously, and to be able to spend all of our energy and time on work and fun and not on the arts of concealment or self-hatred. But we know that such a simple goal will be achieved only by sweeping adjustments in the way many people think.” She said the book was written in 1971 and, while it may sound a bit dated, still has meaning for many. “A lot of people are still challenged with very tough choices about their lives and their family and their careers,” Ms. Love said. “So, for a lot of people, this is still very valid, I think.” Ms. Abbott was born in 1937 to a military family that often moved from place to place, the Rev. Alison Caiola said in recapping Ms. Abbott’s early years, having spoken to friends and family. Ms. Abbott’s father, Ward, was a career military man who once worked for General Douglas McArthur as an engineer and would retire as a Colonel. She also was a relative of Phillip Livingston, who signed the Declaration of Independence. Ms. Abbott attended Smith College in Massachusetts as an art major, but found that many of the lesbians there lived in fear, as members of the faculty would periodically expose or even expel them, Rev. Caiola said. She left after her third year at Smith College and graduated from the University of New Mexico. Despite this, her work is now displayed in the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College, Rev. Caiola said. Ms. Abbott joined the National Organization for Women in 1969 and became one of the first people to speak out for lesbian rights on panels at the New York chapter of NOW and at Columbia University, where she was a graduate student. At the time, lesbian-rights efforts met with opposition from then-NOW president Betty Friedan. Ms. Abbott also became a member of a group called Lavender Menace, a lesbian radical feminist group that protested the exclusion of lesbians and lesbian issues from women’s rights movements in 1970. “I met Sidney in February 1970,” said Artemis March at Saturday’s memorial. “There were three of us — Barbara (Love), Sidney and myself — and we were starting something that had never been done before: lesbian-consciousness raising.” Ms. March and Ms. Abbott were part of a group called “Radicalesbians” which in 1970 wrote a 10-page manifesto called “The Woman-Identified Woman” and distributed it during the Lavender Menace protests over the lack of lesbian-rights speakers at the “Second Congress to Unite Woman” in New York City that year. “Whatever the situation called for, she was there, to bring her energy to it,” Ms. March said Saturday. Ms. Abbott, who spent her later years in Southold, also was engaged in politics locally, and loved animals, even becoming involved in a horse rescue effort in 2002 with longtime friend Joan Nixon. “She had many hardships at the end of her life and she felt that she was forgotten and left alone,” Ms. Nixon said Saturday. “But the way we have to look at it is that Sidney is free. She’s happy and free … she has overcome the hardships that she had and she now lives as a spirit in the spirit world.” Ms. Abbott was a member of First Universalist Church in Southold, which burned down about a month before the fire that killed her. Susi Young, president of First Universalist Church, recalled Ms. Abbott Sunday, saying, “Sidney was quite the character. A great spirit, humor and intellect. She was a strong feminist, writer and activist. She was also a great fighter for women’s rights and a tireless Democrat. Sydney definitely kept me on my toes and I will miss her.”
