=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia]
Early life Angela Isadora Duncan was born in San Francisco, the youngest of the four children of Joseph Charles Duncan (1819-1898), a banker, mining engineer and connoisseur of the arts, and Mary Isadora Gray (1849-1922).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isadora_Duncan

[Family tree of Isadora DUNCAN - Geneastar]
Angela Isadora Duncan was born in San Francisco, California, the youngest of the four children of Joseph Charles Duncan (1819-1898), a banker, mining engineer and connoisseur of the arts, and Mary Isadora Gray (1849-1922), youngest daughter of Thomas Gray, a California state senator, and his wife Mary Gorman. The other children were Elizabeth, Augustin, and Raymond. Her father was the son ...
URL: https://en.geneastar.org/genealogy/duncan/isadora-duncan

[Isadora Duncan - family tree - EntiTree]
Discover the family tree of Isadora Duncan: American dancer and choreographer , 2 children, 3 siblings, 1 spouse, 5 partners
URL: https://www.entitree.com/en/family_tree/Q483512

[Isadora Duncan: The Tragic Life of the Bisexual "Mother of Modern Dance"]
Apr 15, 2024 · Isadora Duncan, who would go on to become known as the “Mother of Modern Dance.” (Credit: Wikimedia Commons, Public Domain) Isadora’s mother, Mary, worked as a seamstress and piano teacher. Isadora and her siblings taught dance to local children, for a fee, to help their mother.
URL: https://katdevitt.com/2024/04/15/isadora-duncan-the-tragic-life-of-the-bisexual-mother-of-modern-dance/

[What was Isadora Duncan's family like? | Britannica]
One of four children, Isadora Duncan was raised by her music teacher mother. Duncan had a child by theatre director-designer Gordon Craig and another by Paris Singer, heir to the sewing machine fortune. Both children drowned when their car rolled into the Seine River. Duncan married poet Sergey Aleksandrovich Yesenin, who later committed suicide.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/question/What-was-Isadora-Duncans-family-like


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia] ---
Angela Isadora Duncan (May 26, 1877, or May 27, 1878 – September 14, 1927) was an American-born dancer and choreographer, who was a pioneer of modern contemporary dance and performed to great acclaim throughout Europe and the United States. Born and raised in California, she lived and danced in Western Europe, the U.S., and Soviet Russia from the age of 22. She died when her scarf became entangled in the wheel and axle of the car in which she was travelling in Nice, France.




--- [Family tree of Isadora DUNCAN - Geneastar] ---
Family tree of Isadora DUNCAN Born Angela Isadora DUNCAN American dancer Born on May 26, 1877 in San Francisco, California, USA , United States Died on September 14, 1927 in Nice, France , France Family tree This form allows you to report an error or to submit additional information about this family tree: Isadora DUNCAN (1877) Note: Most of the family trees available on Geneastar come from Geneanet members, and the Geneastar team can't make corrections. If the family tree does not have a banner with the Geneastar logo, you must directly contact the member who published the family tree. More information In 1895, Duncan became part of Augustin Daly's theater company in New York. She soon became disillusioned with the form. In 1899, she decided to move to Europe, first to London and, a year later, to Paris. Within two years, she achieved both notoriety and success. ... Angela Isadora Duncan was born in San Francisco, California, the youngest of the four children of Joseph Charles Duncan (1819–1898), a banker, mining engineer and connoisseur of the arts, and Mary Isadora Gray (1849–1922), youngest daughter of Thomas Gray, a California state senator, and his wife Mary Gorman. The other children were Elizabeth, Augustin, and Raymond. Her father was the son of Joseph Moulder Duncan and Harriett Bioren. Soon after Isadora's birth, Joseph Duncan lost the bank and was publicly disgraced. Her parents were divorced by 1880 (the papers were lost in the San Francisco earthquake), and her mother Dora moved with her family to Oakland. She worked there as a pianist and music teacher. In her early years, Duncan did attend school, but finding it to be constricting to her individuality, she dropped out. As her family was very poor, both she and her sister gave dance classes to local children to earn extra money. In 1895, Duncan became part of Augustin Daly's theater company in New York. She soon became disillusioned with the form. In 1899, she decided to move to Europe, first to London and, a year later, to Paris. Within two years, she achieved both notoriety and success. Her father, along with his third wife and their daughter, died in the 1898 sinking of the British passenger steamer SS Mohegan. © Copyright Wikipédia authors - This article is under licence CC BY-SA 3.0 Geographical origins The map below shows the places where the ancestors of the famous person lived. They are related Log in to your Geneanet account Start your family tree Create your family tree and take advantage of valuable tips to help you search your ancestors.


--- [Isadora Duncan - family tree - EntiTree] ---
No content


--- [Isadora Duncan: The Tragic Life of the Bisexual "Mother of Modern Dance"] ---
“People don’t live nowadays: they get about ten percent out of life,” Isadora Duncan had once said in regards to her thoughts on life. It rings true even today. Duncan, herself, lived a life filled with triumph and tragedy. Although, her life had more of the latter than the first. She experienced the greatest of poverty in her childhood and the greatest of successes in her career as a dancer. She also experienced passionate love affairs with both men and women. All before she died in a bizarre accident. Born in 1877 San Francisco, California as Angela Isadora Duncan, she was the youngest of four children. Her father, Joseph Duncan, was a banker and mining engineer caught committing fraud shortly after her birth. After the financial scandal, her mother, Mary Isadora Gray, packed up the children and left. Mary had already been frustrated with his string of infidelities and his fraud scandal was the last straw for her. Isadora and her siblings lived in poverty after their parents divorced. Isadora’s mother, Mary, worked as a seamstress and piano teacher. Isadora and her siblings taught dance to local children, for a fee, to help their mother. By 1896, with little schooling, Isadora worked at a New York theater company owned by Augustin Daly, one of the most influential playwrights and theater managers at the time. However, she left after she grew unhappy with the rigid atmosphere in Daly’s company. She tried learning ballet from Marie Bonfanti but also found this style of dance too restraining for her vision. Disappointed and disillusioned by the American dance scene, Isadora moved to London in 1899. There, she took inspiration for her style of dance from the Greek vases and reliefs on display in the British Museum. She performed dances for the aristocratic and wealthy, interpreting Greek and Roman myths with free-flowing movements and athleticism. For example, she acted out the legend of Orpheus to the music of Gluck for audiences. Next, she ventured to Paris, visiting the Louvre, and performing for figures like Marguerite de Saint-Marceaux and Princesse Edmond de Polignac. After charming the French public, she was asked to go on tour with Loie Fuller, another experimental American dancer. By 1902, she was invited to headline her own show in Budapest, Hungary, where her famous encore was to The Blue Danube, a waltz by Johann Strauss. Performances followed around Germany and Austria. During this time, her creativity reached newer heights. She had found inspiration in ancient civilizations and mythology. Now she incorporated folk dances and natural elements to her dancing. She incorporated dramatic running, leaping, tossing, and skipping into her dance, which was different from the popular pantomimes and traditional ballet. Although reception to her dancing was mixed,she inspired painters and sculptors like Dame Laura Knight and Auguste Rodin with her unique dancing. Duncan was also active in establishing dance schools for women that taught her technique and style. She opened her first school in 1904 in Germany. There, amongst the first of her students, six girls would become known as the “Isadorables,” a nickname given to the group by poet Ferdinand Divoire. Other schools Duncan opened included one in Paris which was shutdown after the outbreak of World War I. She founded other schools in New York City and Moscow. Isadora toured through a multitude of other countries, including South American countries, Russia, and Egypt. She made an impact on the Russian ballet with choreographer Mikhail Fokine incorporating her natural movements and technique into his ballet Les Sylphides. Isadora had the first of her three children, a daughter, with Gordon Craig, actor and director. In 1910, she had her son with Paris Singer, one of the many sons of inventor and owner of the Singer Sewing Machine Company. However, a tragedy that would forever change Isadora’s life happened in 1913 when both her children drowned in their nanny’s car. After the deaths of her first two children,she went to Viareggio, a seaside resort town in Tuscany, Italy, with actress Eleonora Duse. It is speculated that the two might have had a sexual relationship during those few weeks but other sources say they were only friends. While there is no direct proof, it was enough to make contemporaries wag their gossipy tongues and historians to continue to ponder over the precise nature of their short holiday. In August 1914, Isadora had her third child by sculptor and naval officer Romano Romanelli. She bore him a son who died only a few months after birth. This fueled her weight gain, alcoholism, and depression. In 1919, she adopted the six girls that had formed the “Isadorables.” They all took her last name, Duncan. However, some of her adoptive daughters would slowly wean away from her as their careers and love lives took them in different directions. Isadora’s career took her to Moscow in 1921. This was shortly after the Russian Revolution had ended and the Communist regime was established. She established another dance school in Moscow with promises from the Soviet Union that they would help fund her and her work. However, the government would eventually renege on their word. During this time, she met a young poet named Sergei Yesenin. He was eighteen years younger than her, but this did not stop the two from marrying in May 1922. Sergei traveled across Europe and America with her while she was on tour, but they grew apart rapidly while moving from country to country. This was in part due to Duncan returning to having affairs with other women. In May 1923, Sergei returned to Russia and committed suicide a few short years later. He slit his wrists and used his own blood to compose one last poem. One of Isadora’s most well-known affairs was with the writer Mercedes de Acosta. They wrote numerous love letters to one another. In one such letter, Isadora wrote, “Mercedes, lead me with your little strong hands and I will follow you– to the top of a mountain. To the end of the world. Wherever you wish.” Isadora never recovered from the deaths of her children. Her later life was marked by failed love affairs, financial stress and insecurity, and displays of public intoxication. Her tragic life would come to an even more tragic and bizarre end. On September 14, 1927, Isadora was a passenger inside an Amilcar CGSS automobile. She wore a long, silk scarf while inside the vehicle, which got entangled in the wheel well and rear axle, yanking her from the vehicle and dragging her along a cobblestone street. She died on impact. Shortly after her death, Isadora’s autobiography, My Life, was published. In 1987, she was inducted into the National Museum of Dance and Hall of Fame. Her dancing technique continues to inspire well into the 21st century. To this day, some call her the “mother of modern dance.” If you enjoyed this blog post, please consider supporting me over at Buy Me a Coffee! This Enduring Writer could really use the caffeine to keep creating. Resources Dancer Isadora Duncan is killed in car accident on History.com Eleonora Duse – actress on Italy on This Day Honoring the Mother of Modern Dance: Bisexual, Indelible, Revolutionary by Megan Lane, on Go Mag Isadora Duncan by Emma Bolton, on Dance Bibles Isadora Duncan (1877-1927) on Isadora Duncan Archive Isadora Duncan: The Queen of Dance on Lesbian News Isadora Duncan Reinvents Dance on Diversity Richmond Reading Hemingway to Inspire a New Year by Sarah Dunlap, on AU News Rest in Peculiarity: 12 Unusual Deaths in the 20th Century by Khalid Elhassan, on History Collection Sergei Yesenin on Poetry Foundation


--- [What was Isadora Duncan's family like? | Britannica] ---
One of four children, Isadora Duncan was raised by her music teacher mother. Duncan had a child by theatre director-designer Gordon Craig and another by Paris Singer, heir to the sewing machine fortune. Both children drowned when their car rolled into the Seine River. Duncan married poet Sergey Aleksandrovich Yesenin, who later committed suicide.
