=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Spearman Medal - Wikipedia]
The Spearman Medal was an early-career award of the British Psychological Society 's Research Board, given in recognition of outstanding published work in psychology which represented a significant body of work in terms of theoretical contributions, originality, and impact.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spearman_Medal

[GEOFFREY BEATTIE - Edge Hill University]
He was awarded the Spearman Medal by the British Psychological Society (BPS) for 'published psychological research of outstanding merit' and the Mouton d'Or for his work in semiotics. He is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society, a Life Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine and a Life Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
URL: https://research.edgehill.ac.uk/en/persons/geoffrey-beattie/

[Spearman Medal Explained]
The Spearman Medal was an early-career award of the British Psychological Society 's Research Board, given in recognition of outstanding published work in psychology which represented a significant body of work in terms of theoretical contributions, originality, and impact. The award was inaugurated in 1965 and is named in honour of Charles Spearman. Medal winners were invited to give the ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Spearman_Medal/

[Spearman Medal is retired | BPS]
Mar 4, 2021 — The Spearman Medal was instituted by the BPS in 1962 and the first medal was awarded in 1965 to Anne Treisman.
URL: https://www.bps.org.uk/psychologist/spearman-medal-retired

[Spearman Medal - Wikiwand]
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Articles Remove ads Remove ads
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Spearman_Medal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Spearman Medal - Wikipedia] ---
The Spearman Medal was an early-career award of the British Psychological Society's Research Board, given in recognition of outstanding published work in psychology which represented a significant body of work in terms of theoretical contributions, originality, and impact. The award was inaugurated in 1965 and is named in honour of Charles Spearman. Medal winners were invited to give the Spearman Medal Lecture at the society's annual conference. 
In 2021, it was decided to retire this award in view of concern at the links Spearman had with the eugenics movement.




--- [GEOFFREY BEATTIE - Edge Hill University] ---
Personal profile Biography Biography Geoff Beattie is Professor of Psychology at Edge Hill University and was Visiting Scholar at the Oxford Centre for Life-Writing (OCLW) and Wolfson College, University of Oxford from 2023 to 2026. He is now Associate at OCLW. He got a First in psychology from the University of Birmingham and a PhD in psychology from the University of Cambridge (Trinity College). https://oclw.web.ox.ac.uk/people He researches a number of key areas: human communication, particularly the relationship between gesture and speech; implicit cognition in decision-making; lying; psychological barriers to climate change mitigation; climate anxiety; racial and ethnic bias, neurodiversity, life-writing and psychology. Beattie has published over 130 academic articles in journals such as Nature, Nature Climate Change, Journal of Experimental Psychology, Autism, and Semiotica. He was awarded the Spearman Medal by the British Psychological Society (BPS) for ‘published psychological research of outstanding merit’ and the Mouton d’Or for his work in semiotics. He is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society, a Life Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine and a Life Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. He is also a Chartered Psychologist and a Chartered Scientist. His research has been funded from a range of sources, including research councils (ESRC; British Academy, AHRC), the EU FP7, charities (Leverhulme Trust; Nuffield Foundation; Equality Challenge Unit) and from commercial sources like Tesco and Unilever. He has also published twenty-nine books on a range of topics, including two semi-autobiographical novels ‘The Corner Boys‘ (Victor Gollancz, 1998), and ‘The Body’s Little Secrets’ (Gibson Square, 2018). Two of his non-fiction books, ‘On the Ropes’ and ‘The Shadows of Boxing’, both about the lives of boxers in Sheffield and their extraordinary coach Brendan Ingle were optioned for a movie by the Hollywood studio AGC. The film ‘Giant’ starring Pierce Brosnan had its premiere at the BFI Film Festival in October 2025, and cinema release throughout the UK in January 2026. Geoff is Executive Producer alongside the legendary Sylvester Stallone. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cqg5PtgeNRc A number of his books have either won or been shortlisted for major national or international prizes. ‘Talk: An Analysis of Speech and Nonverbal Behaviour in Conversation' (Open University Press) detailed the research that was awarded the Spearman Medal by the British Psychological Society. 'We Are the People: Journeys Through the Heart of Protestant Ulster' (Heinemann) and 'The Corner Boys' (Victor Gollancz) were both short-listed for the Ewart-Biggs Literary Prize. 'On the Ropes: Boxing as a Way of Life' (Victor Gollancz) was short-listed for the William Hill Sports Book of the Year. ‘Trophy Hunting: A Psychological Perspective' (Routledge) was shortlisted for the Taylor & Francis Outstanding Book and Digital Product Award. His books have been translated into Chinese, Taiwanese, Portuguese (for Brazil), Italian, Finnish, German, Romanian etc. As well as books on psychology, he has published several books of reportage, and a memoir (‘Protestant Boy’, Granta) - he grew up in a mill house at ‘the turn of the road’ in North Belfast and was the first in a generation from his primary school to pass the Eleven Plus. He attended Belfast Royal Academy and did his PhD at Trinity College Cambridge. The memoir is about his Protestant working-class background and his move away from the turn-of-the-road gang. ‘Selfless: A Psychologist's Journey through Identity and Social Class‘ (Routledge, 2021) also explores the discomfort of social class and education in more detail. In 2024, he was awarded the Wolfson College Oxford Prize for Creative Writing on the theme of 'relocation', the piece was about him leaving North Belfast for university 'across the water'. His most recent books are on 'doubt', 'lying' and 'climate anxiety'. His book on doubt ('Doubt: A Psychological Exploration', Routledge, 2023) explored this topic through life histories. It considered self-doubt and the impostor syndrome as well as the weaponisation of doubt with respect to climate change and the marketing of cigarettes. He explored through an analysis of letters, diaries, conversations, autobiographies etc. how doubt develops and how the likes of Kafka, Jung, Picasso and Turing succumbed to doubt, or eventually learned to control it. He argued that doubt is central to the self; it can be either a safeguarding mechanism or a distraction, rational or irrational, systematic or random, healthy or pathological, productive or non-productive, but always critically important. Professor Brian Butterworth (UCL) wrote: 'Beattie brilliantly illustrates the science of doubt with fascinating case studies from doubters like Kafka, to non-doubters like Picasso.' At OCLW, he worked on a book on lying ('Lies, Lying and Liars: A Psychological Analysis,', Routledge, 2024) His initial research focused on historical and political autobiographies and biographies, philosophical texts and the core psychological literature, including sociobiological perspectives. He had background research material on individuals who live their lives though lies - conmen, ‘ten-bob’ millionaires, undercover police, cheats and adulterers. He was interested in the psychology of the liar, strategies of deceit, remorse or lack of it, emotion and rationalisations, pathological liars, the development of lying, lying and narcissism, functional and effective lies, big lies like those of Putin and how these are maintained, the consequences of lying, lie detection. There was an element of personal reflection throughout the book. ‘I remember the first time my mother lied to me’ is the book’s opening sentence, moving then onto research in psychology on lies in everyday life, and why psychology has drawn the wrong conclusions from this research. His underlying assumption was that lying can only properly be understood in the context of individual lives, including his own. Professor Marcel Danesi (University of Toronto) wrote: 'While mendacity is an innate trait of humans, the reasons why it has become so prominent remains obscure, until one reads Geoff Beattie's brilliant synopsis.' In 2025, he published 'Understanding Climate Anxiety' with Routledge in conjunction with the BPS in their 'Ask the Expert Series'. He examined why it is developing so rapidly, particularly in younger people, and how it can manifest differently - sometimes as helplessness or despair, and sometimes as anger which can serve as a catalyst for action. The book was described by Vanessa Botelho, Professor of Journalism, City University of New York, as 'One of the most substantive books of our time on climate change and its psychological effects on humankind.' He is a keen masters athlete, representing Northern Ireland on the road and Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the track (100m-800m), and has written a number of books on the psychology of sport, principally boxing and running, with one book based on his radio series on the psychology of sport on BBC Radio 5-live, with interviews with leading sportsmen and managers including Alex Ferguson, Naseem Hamed, Kelly Holmes, Chris Boardman etc. In 2015, he was invited to write an introduction to W.T. Gallwey’s classic and multi-million selling book ‘The Inner Game of Tennis’. He discussed how Gallwey’s ideas resonated with (and predated) some of the most influential ideas in contemporary cognitive psychology on systems of thinking and human performance. Research Multimodal communication: His research on multimodal communication offers a major reconceptualisation of human communication, by focussing on the close connections between gestures, speech and thinking in linguistic generation (‘Visible Thought’, Routledge, 2003; ‘Rethinking Body Language’, Routledge, 2016), following the pioneering work of David McNeill from the University of Chicago. The research shows that both verbal and nonverbal elements are critical to everyday semantic communication and that spontaneous iconic gestures reflect unarticulated aspects of thinking. This has major implications for how we must think about speech and human communication. He has researched how listeners decode iconic gestures and how, and why, certain gestures attract the gaze fixations of listeners and the implications of this for communicative effectiveness. He has investigated the possible applications of this theoretical perspective for deception, where gesture-speech mismatches may occur, along with structural changes in the phases of gestures. He has considered the implications of this close connection between speech and bodily movement for the organisation of conversations themselves and particularly for turn-taking in conversation. He has also explored the practical implications of this theoretical approach for the design of effective communication, and worked closely with ITV in the design of television commercials to test these ideas (outlined in ‘Rethinking Body Language’, 2016). This research on multimodal communication has won a number of major national and international prizes including the Spearman Medal awarded by the BPS and the internationally acclaimed Mouton d’Or for research on the effects of deception on gesture production. His book with Andy Ellis ‘The Psychology of Language and Communication’ was republished in 2017 in the Psychology Press and Routledge Classic Editions series for ‘timeless classics in psychology’. ‘Rethinking Body Language’ was published in Mainland China by Post & Telecom Press in 2019 . Climate change: The work on climate change focusses primarily on the psychological barriers to climate change mitigation and the ‘value-action’ gap, this work is outlined in his books ‘Why Aren’t We Saving the Planet: A Psychologist’s Perspective’ (Routledge, 2010), ‘The Psychology of Climate Change’ (Routledge, 2018) and papers in various journals, including Nature Climate Change. His research on climate change has reached major international audiences, and he has been invited to work with the U.N. in a number of capacities. He is a member of the International Panel on Behavior Change, which meets at UNESCO in Paris, and presented his research (with Laura McGuire) on why we need to target implicit, automatic associations in the fight against climate change at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change at the UNESCO Headquarters in Paris. He also wrote a chapter for the United Nations International Commission on Education for Sustainable Development Practice Report along with 40 other authors, both academics and practitioners, from across the globe. He has worked with the British Academy on this topic, as well as receiving research funding from them. He presented his research on optimism bias and climate change at the British Academy Summer Showcase 2018, and at a British Academy event on climate change at the Latitude Festival in 2019. He has served as an external consultant to Unilever’s Leadership Vanguard (LV) with Paul Polman, then CEO of Unilever, and others. LV is a major global initiative that seeks to identify, support and mobilise future-fit leaders – all in the interest of reinventing growth. Inspired by CEOs such as Polman and Ajay Banga, and instigated by Xyntéo and DNV GL, the Vanguard partnership includes Unilever, MasterCard, Woodside, Singapore’s Economic Development Board, Ericsson, Energias de Portugal and the International Committee of the Red Cross. This organisation helps shape the sustainability policy of Unilever and other leading multinationals. He is a counselor on the Executive Board of the International Interdisciplinary Environmental Association and a member of the International Advisory Board of the Japanese research organisation and think-tank ‘The International Academic Forum’. He has given a large number of international keynotes on this work, including a keynote at the National Geographic Science Festival in Rome in April 2020 on ‘optimism bias and climate change’. The Chinese translation of ‘The Psychology of Climate Change’ was published by the Shanghai Education Publishing House. Implicit racial bias: He has also investigated the ‘value-action’ gap in other domains, including implicit racial bias and its implications for employment. He has explored how unconscious prejudice can operate in everyday life and how it can impact on the selection of candidates for various employment opportunities. This research suggests that if we really do want to do anything about racism in society, then we need to understand these implicit, unconscious processes and how to combat them. This work has been discussed in both ‘Our Racist Heart: An Exploration of Unconscious Prejudice in Everyday Life’ (Routledge, 2013) and ‘The Conflicted Mind’ (Routledge, 2018). ‘Our Racist Heart’ was ‘highly recommended’ in the American Psychological Association’s review journal Choice and selected as one of the editor’s highlights. He has given a number of keynote addresses on this theme at a variety of applied conferences, including the Annual Conference of the Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service, the Asian Fire Service Association National Conference, the Equality Challenge Unit Biennial Conference, the Respect Difference Conference, Police Service of Northern Ireland etc. ‘The Conflicted Mind’ was published in China by China Renmin University Press. Books include: Beattie, G. (2025) Understanding Climate Anaxiety. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2024) Lies, Lying and Liars: A Psychological Analysis. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2022) Doubt: A Psychological Exploration. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2020) Selfless: A Psychologist's Journey through Identity and Social Class. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2019). Trophy Hunting: A Psychological Perspective. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. & McGuire, L. (2019). The Psychology of Climate Change. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2018). The Body's Little Secrets. Gibson Square: London. Beattie, G. (2018). The Conflicted Mind. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. & Ellis, A. (2017). The Psychology of Language and Communication. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2016). Rethinking Body Language. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2013). Our Racist Heart? Routledge: London. Beattie, G and Beattie, B. (2012). Chasing Lost Times. A Father and Son Reconciled Through Running. Mainstream/Penguin: London. Beattie, G. (2011). Get The Edge: How Simple Changes Will Transform Your Life. London: Headline: London. Beattie, G. (2010). Why Aren't We Saving The Planet? Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2004). Protestant Boy. Granta: London. Beattie, G. (2003). Visible Thought. Routledge: London. Beattie, G. (2002). The Shadows of Boxing. Orion: London. Beattie, G. (1998). Head-to-Head: Uncovering the Psychology of Sporting Success. Victor Gollancz: London. Beattie, G. (1998). Hard Lines. Manchester University Press: Manchester. Beattie, G. (1998). The Corner Boys. Victor Gollancz: London. Beattie, G. (1996). On the Ropes: Boxing as a Way of Life. Gollancz: London. Beattie, G. (1992). We Are the People. Heinemann: London. Beattie, G. (1990). England After Dark. Weidenfeld & Nicolson: London. Beattie, G. (1989) All Talk. Weidenfeld & Nicolson: London. Beattie, G. (1987). Making It. Weidenfeld & Nicolson: London. Beattie, G. (1986). Survivors of Steel City. Chatto & Windus: London. Ellis, A. & Beattie, G. (1986). The Psychology of Language and Communication. Psychology Press: London. Beattie, G. (1983) Talk. Open University Press: Milton Keynes. Knowledge transfer: He has always been keen to show the relevance of psychology to society in general and is an ex-President of the Psychology Section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. He is well known for bringing analyses of behaviour, and particularly nonverbal communication, to a more general audience by appearing as the on-screen psychologist on eleven series of Big Brother on Channel 4 in the U.K. and for explaining how psychology can be used by people in their everyday lives, for example, in the international bestseller ‘Get the Edge: How Simple Changes Will Transform Your Life’ (Headline). He has given numerous keynote addresses to both academic and non-academic audiences including Unilever, P&G, ITV, HSBC, Tesco, Marketing Forum, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Annual Conference of High and Supreme Court Judges in Ireland, the Marketing Society, the Equality Challenge Unit, Malaysian Olympic Association, British Council, Samaritans and the Central Office of Information, public lectures at Gresham College, the International Psychology Conference in Dubai, the Psychology Teacher National Conference, the European Conference on Psychology and the Behavioral Sciences, Techkriti (the Annual Technical and Entrepreneurial Festival) Kanpur, India, both Houses of Parliament through the Westminster Food and Nutrition Forum, the Star lecture at the University of Manchester etc. He has also spoken at various music and book festivals including ‘The Secret Garden Party’, ‘Shambala’, Latitude, and the Edinburgh, Munich and Cheltenham Book Festivals and written extensively for The Guardian, The Observer, The Observer Magazine, The Sunday Telegraph, The Independent, the Independent on Sunday, The i, The New Statesman and The Conversation (with over 1.14 million reads/readers), as well as contributing to Granta magazine, over a number of years. He has published six books based on these collected journalistic pieces - 'Survivors of Steel City', Chatto & Windus, 'Making It',' All Talk', 'England After Dark' (all Weidenfeld & Nicolson),Hard Lines' (Manchester University Press) and ‘We Are the People: Journeys Through the Heart of Protestant Ulster (Heinemann). Some recent talks: - He was invited to speak on the psychology of trophy hunting in the Houses of Parliament on 23rd November 2022 in advance of the Hunting Trophies (Import Prohibition) Bill which had its second reading in the Commons. The event was organised by the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Banning Trophy Hunting chaired by Sir Roger Gale MP (Con) with Co-Chair Baroness Hayman of Ullock (Lab). Other speakers included Ranulph Fiennes and Henry Smith MP who was introducing the bill. The Bill passed its second reading. - UNAM, Mexico. He was a member of a ‘Climate Change Expert Panel’ alongside various members of the IPCC, hosted by the International Interdisciplinary Environmental Association and the Laboratorio Nacional de Ciencias de la Sostenibilidad-IE at UNAM in Mexico, the largest university in Latin America. - Beattie, G. (2019)The connection between iconic gesture and speech. Keynote at the launch of the new International Multimodal Communication Centre at Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA), University of Oxford, October 2019 - Beattie, G. (2019) How to avert a climate catastrophe, with Professors McGlade (Chair) Pope and Short, Museum of London, on behalf of Gresham College. - Beattie, G. (2018) Revealing the secrets of body language. Funzing Talks, London. - Beattie, G. (2018) How spontaneous gestures connect to thinking. Museum of London, on behalf of Gresham College. - Beattie, G. (2017) The psychology of celebrity. Guerilla Science: Secret Garden Party Debate, funded by the Wellcome Trust, Huntingdon, Cambridge. - Beattie, G. (2017) Rethinking body language: How hand movements reveal hidden thoughts. Psychology Teacher National Conference, London. - Beattie, G. (2017) Hidden Thoughts: Do Your Hand Movements Reveal More About You Than You Think. European Conference on Psychology and the Behavioural Sciences, IAFOR, Brighton. Television: Presenter, Family SOS (BBC1). Two series. Co-presenter, Life’s Too Short (BBC1). Presenter, Dump Your Mates in Four Days (Channel 4). Co-presenter, The Farm of Fussy Eaters (UKTV). Presenter, The Body Politic (the body language of politicians, a slot on the ITV News during a General Election). He was the on-screen psychologist on all 11 series of Big Brother on Channel 4. He has also appeared as an expert commentator and analyst on BBC News, Euro News, ITV News, CNN, Sky News, BBC News 24, BBC World Service, News Asia, Russia Today, GMTV, Channel 4 News, Channel 5 News, BBC Breakfast, Good Morning America, Tonight with Trevor McDonald etc. and carried out media work (television, radio and press) on behalf of a wide range of organisations including ITV, Universal Pictures, DWP, NHS, Disney, Warner Brothers, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office etc. Radio: He has presented several radio series, including Head-to-Head on Radio 5 Live. This involved interviewing famous sports people and managers (including Alex Ferguson), all the interviews with a strong psychological slant. He was writer and presenter of The Ceasefire Generation, Radio 4, Documentary of the Week, Radio 4. His other radio interviews include the Today Programme, Woman’s Hour, Science Now, All in the Mind, Word of Mouth, Freewheeling and Midweek (all Radio 4), Nightwaves (Radio 3), Parkinson on Sunday (Radio 2), BBC World Service ‘World of Books’ programme, ‘This Week’ (RTE), Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and numerous local radio stations. Education/Academic qualification Psychology, BSc, University of Birmingham Psychology, PhD, The role of language production processes in the organization of behaviour in face-to-face interaction, University of Cambridge Other positions Visiting Scholar, University of Oxford 1 Mar 2023 → … Research Groups - Corpus Research Group Expertise related to UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, UN member states agreed to 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. This person’s work contributes towards the following SDG(s): - SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being - SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth - SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities - SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities - SDG 13 Climate Action Fingerprint - 3 Similar Profiles Collaborations and top research areas from the last five years - Implicit Cognition and Racial Biases in Everyday Situations: Beyond Microaggressions and Felt Insults BEATTIE, G. & MCGUIRE, L., 10 Feb 2026, In: International Journal of Community Diversity. p. 1-28 28 p.Research output: Contribution to journal › Article (journal) › peer-review Open AccessFile - Gender and family-role portrayals of autism in British newspapers: An intersectional corpus-based study KARAMINIS, T., Gabrielatos, C., Maden-Weinberger, U. & BEATTIE, G., 31 May 2025, In: Autism. 29, 5, p. 1285–1302 18 p.Research output: Contribution to journal › Article (journal) › peer-review Open AccessFile3 Link opens in a new tab Citations (Scopus)97 Downloads (Pure) - Understanding Climate Anxiety BEATTIE, G., 2 Jul 2025, 9781032616766: Routledge. 218 p.Research output: Book/Report › Book › peer-review - Cognitive strengths in neurodevelopmental disorders, conditions and differences: A critical review Maw, K. J., Beattie, G. & Burns, E. J., 3 May 2024, In: Neuropsychologia. 197, p. 1-16 16 p., 108850.Research output: Contribution to journal › Article (journal) › peer-review Open AccessFile20 Link opens in a new tab Citations (Scopus)9 Downloads (Pure) - Lies, Lying, and Liars: A Psychological Analysis BEATTIE, G., 25 Apr 2024, Routledge. 276 p.Research output: Book/Report › Book › peer-review 3 Link opens in a new tab Citations (Scopus) Projects - 16 Finished - ‘An experimental investgation of the modifibaility of implicit racial bias.’ (15k). YAMAGUCHI, M. (PI) & BEATTIE, G. (CoI) 1/01/16 → 1/01/17 Project: Research - ‘Optimism bias and the processing of climate change messages’ (10k). BEATTIE, G. (PI) 1/01/15 → 1/01/16 Project: Research - ‘A comparative study of dissociation in implicit and explicit attitudes to carbon footprint in China, India, the U.S. and Brazil’ (21k). BEATTIE, G. (PI) 1/01/14 → 1/01/15 Project: Research - ‘MOTivational strength of ecosystem services and alternative ways to express the value of Biodiversity’, with a range of European partners including Radboud University Nijmegen, Université Catholique de Louvain, Universität Greifswald, Belgium, University of Eastern Finland, ZRC SAZU, Slovenia, CIRPA-La Sapienza, Italy and Leiden. (3.2m Euros) BEATTIE, G. (CoI) 1/01/11 → 1/01/15 Project: Research - ‘Implicit attitudes to ethnicity and their effects on the outcome of selection interviews.’ (60k) BEATTIE, G. (PI) 1/01/10 → 1/01/11 Project: Research Activities - The Psychology of Climate Change BEATTIE, G. (Speaker) & MCGUIRE, L. (Speaker) 5 Mar 2019 → 8 Mar 2019Activity: Dissemination › Invited talk - Revealing the secrets of body language BEATTIE, G. (Speaker) May 2018Activity: Dissemination › Invited talk - How close should you go?: the psychology of documentary film-making. BEATTIE, G. (Speaker) Jun 2018Activity: Dissemination › Invited talk - How spontaneous gestures connect to thinking (on behalf of Gresham College). BEATTIE, G. (Speaker) Apr 2018Activity: Dissemination › Invited talk - Why aren’t climate change messages getting through. BEATTIE, G. (Speaker) Jun 2018Activity: Dissemination › Invited talk Prizes - - Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol) awarded by the British Psychological Society BEATTIE, G. (Recipient), 2016 Prize - -


--- [Spearman Medal Explained] ---
No content


--- [Spearman Medal is retired | BPS] ---
The Spearman Medal was instituted by the BPS in 1962 and the first medal was awarded in 1965 to Anne Treisman. Since that time, 47 Medallists have been honoured. Recently, a number of concerns have been raised, including a letter from Dr Vaughan Bell to The Psychologist (September 2020), regarding Spearman's links with the Eugenics movement and whether renaming the Medal would be appropriate. The Research Board was therefore asked to consider whether to rename or retire the Medal. The Research Board agreed that, whilst recognising the exceptional contributions of Spearman to Psychology, we must also be mindful of the complex legacy associated with the Spearman Medal and ensure that our awards represent the best of what the Society wishes to promote: equality, diversity and inclusion. As a result, it decided to retire the Medal with immediate effect, and we will be launching a new early career award for exceptional contributions to psychological knowledge in due course. Professor Daryl O'Connor Chair, Research Board Editor's note: It remains important to honour previous winners of the Spearman Medal, so BPS Archivist Claire Jackson has put together this piece, with links to many articles from them. The Spearman Medal was inaugurated in 1965. This early-career (postdoctoral) annual award of the Research Board was given in recognition of outstanding published work in psychology representing a significant body of research output in terms of theoretical contributions made, originality (including innovation in methods or techniques), and impact of the findings. Charles Myers (1873-1946) and Charles Spearman (1863-1945) died within a short space of time of each other and a joint appeal to raise money in their names was launched in 1947. By 1962 the British Psychological Society accepted a recommendation from the Committee on the use of the Myers and Spearman Memorial Funds that the Council should institute a medal to be known as 'The Spearman Medal of the British Psychological Society', and a lectureship to be known as 'The C.S. Myers Lecture of the British Psychological Society'. Fattorini and Sons were commissioned to design a Spearman medal in 1963 and the first medal was awarded in 1965 to Anne Treisman. A Committee, chaired by the President met annually to recommend recipients of the Myers lecture and Spearman medal. The newly created Scientific Affairs Board took over the responsibility of organising the annual Myers Lecture and for awarding the Spearman Medal in early 1975. From that point on Spearman medal winners were invited to present a lecture and this was initially given at the Annual London conference held in December. After this ceased in 2001 the award and lecture was presented at the Annual Conference. The final lectures were given by the 2017 winners at the 2018 Annual Conference. The Research Board (successor of the Scientific Affairs Board) debated in 2001 whether Spearman funds should be used for a studentship however by 2004 the medal was awarded to a candidate within eight years of completing a PhD who had produced original and innovative work that has contributed significantly to the discipline. 1965 Anne Treisman 1966 [no award] 1967 Alan Cowey 1968 [no award] 1969 Peter B. Warr 1970 Kevin J. Connolly 1971 [no award] 1972 [no award] 1973 Susan Iverson 1974 Philip N. Johnson-Laird 1975 David J. Wood Nurturing Nature 1976 Edmund T. Rolls Investigations into the neurophysiological and pharmacological basis of motivation and reinforcement 1977 [no award] 1978 Howard Giles The Social Dynamics of Speech: An Issue in Search of a Discipline 1979 [no award] 1980 Gregory V. Jones Mechanisms of Recall 1981 Trevor W. Robbins Stereotypes: Addictions or Fragmented Actions 1982 Andrew W. Ellis Syndromes Slips and Structures 1983 [no award] 1984 Geoffrey Beattie The Threads of Discourse and the Web of Interpersonal involvement 1985 Charles Hulme Interactions Between Theories in Cognitive and Developmental Psychology 1986 Glyn W. Humphreys Objects Words Brains Computers: Framing the Correspondence Problem in Object and Word Recognition Bulletin 40 p207-201 1987 Miles Hewstone 1988 Stephen B. Dunnett Neural Transplants: A Novel Technique for the Study of Brain Function 1989 Susan E. Gathercole Working Memory and Language Development: How Close is the Link 1990 Simon Baron-Cohen The Theory of Mind Hypnosis of Autism: History and Prospects of the Idea 1991 Jane Oakhill How Do We Understand Anaphors? Bulletin 1993 Vol 6 page 204 1992 Usha Goswami Orthographic Analogies and Reading Development 1993 Peter W. Halligan Drawing Attention to Neglect 1994 Jon Driver 1995 Michael Oaksford 1996 Nick Chater Simplicity and the Mind page 1997 Neil Macrae Self-Regulatory Processes in Person Perception 1998 Francesca Happé Understanding assets and deficits in autism - Why success is more 1999 Simon Killcross The amygdala, emotion and learning 2000 Kate Nation Reading & Language in Children: Exposing hidden deficits 2001 Gregory R. Maio Values Trust and Meaning 2002 Thalia Eley Something Borrowed Something Blue 2003 [no award] 2004 Jolanda Jetten Living on the edge: loyalty to the group and intragroup position 2005 Padraic Monaghan Left and right brain - Insights from neural networks 2006 Sarah-Jayne Blakemore The Social Brain of a Teenager and Richard Crisp Recognising complexity in intergroup relations 2007 Christopher Chambers A stimulating take on attention 2008 Tom Manly How bad can it be? How good can it get? Symptom modulation and rehabilitation following brain injury 2009 Matt Field Attentional bias in drug abuse: Psychological mechanisms and clinical implications 2010 Emily Holmes Mental imagery and emotion: An experimental psychopathology view 2011 Essi Viding Different pathways to conduct problems: The role of callous-unemotional traits 2012 Angelica Ronald Seventy years since Kanner's account, what do we think causes autism in 2013? 2013 Jonathan Roiser Why does neuroscience research matter for mental health? 2014 Roi Cohen Kadosh Using Non-Invasive Brain Stimulation to Enhance Learning and Cognition 2015 Iroise Dumontheil What is special about the manipulation of social information? 2016 Michael Banissy Sharing the experiences of others Understanding mechanisms of vicarious perception in mirror-touch synaesthesia 2017 Claire Haworth From Observational to Dynamic Genetics Rachael Jack Discovering Facial Expression Communication Across Cultures 2018 Aidan Horner 2019 Stephen Fleming 2020 Richard Cook


--- [Spearman Medal - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
