=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tomball High School - Wikipedia]
In 2000, voters approved a $98.4 million bond referendum that enabled the district to renovate Tomball High School. In 2011 principal Gary Moss was scheduled to retire in spring 2011, and Greg Quinn, an assistant principal, became principal. He served from Fall 2011 to Spring 2017. Chris Scott is the current principal. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomball_High_School

[Tomball bond issue passes by 3 to 1 margin - Chron]
It' often said after elections that "the voters have spoken." Judging from the results of the Sept. 16 Tomball Independent School District Bond 2000 referendum, it seems they screamed instead.
URL: https://www.chron.com/neighborhood/article/Tomball-bond-issue-passes-by-3-to-1-margin-9900855.php

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[Our School - Tomball High School]
In 2000, voters approved a $98.4 million bond referendum that enabled the district to renovate Tomball High School. Since that time, Tomball High School has increased its enrollment to over 1,800 students, and earned a Recognized rating from the Texas Education Agency, which determines state accountability ratings based on data collected via ...
URL: https://ths.tomballisd.net/our-school

[MANY Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com]
MANY definition: constituting or forming a large number; numerous. See examples of many used in a sentence.
URL: https://www.dictionary.com/browse/many


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tomball High School - Wikipedia] ---
Tomball High School is an accredited public high school in the city of Tomball, Texas. It was the only high school in the Tomball Independent School District before the construction of Tomball Memorial High School in 2011.


--- [Tomball bond issue passes by 3 to 1 margin - Chron] ---
|It' often said after elections that "the voters have spoken." Judging from the results of the Sept. 16 Tomball Independent School District Bond 2000 referendum, it seems they screamed instead. By Dale Blodgett Advertisement Article continues below this ad It' often said after elections that "the voters have spoken." Judging from the results of the Sept. 16 Tomball Independent School District Bond 2000 referendum, it seems they screamed instead. Advertisement Article continues below this ad A total of 2,152 votes were cast on the $98 million bond issue with 1,559 voting in favor and 561 against, a margin of nearly three to one. Advertisement Article continues below this ad This was the second time since 1996 that the voters have approved the issuing of bonds, noted School Board President Kenneth Graeber. "The board was thrilled with the outcome of the election and appreciative of the community's support of the bond proposal. The election was overwhelmingly in favor of the bond proposal," he said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Voters also let their voices be heard in a 1996 bond issue referendum approving the sale of $19 million in bonds, whereas in 1995 they voted a similar referendum down. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Proceeds from this bond election will pay for the construction of a junior high school, an intermediate school, an elementary school, a central warehouse, and a district aquatic center. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Also included are additions and renovations to Tomball High School, Tomball Junior High School, Beckendorf Intermediate, Tomball Intermediate, Decker Prairie Elementary, Lakewood Elementary, the Transportation Center and Special Services. Other additions include the purchase of portable buildings to meet additional enrollment needs. Graeber says the main reason voters passed the bond issue was the speed in which the school district is experiencing growth among its student body. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "Everyone understands the growth in the district and understands there is a tremendous need for the bond," said Graeber. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Board members had to vote on the bond issue proposal before it was put to the voters. Although R. Lynn McCoy voiced his objections to the bond issue, members of the board voted 6 to 1 in favor of the bond referendum. Advertisement Article continues below this ad One reason he voted against the bond proposal is the outstanding debt service of $21 million the district is experiencing, he says. "Our district currently has 7,200 students and an outstanding bond debt of $21 million (equating to $2,900 per child). We are being asked to approve approximately $100 million in additional bond debt. This amount is excessive and contains a considerable amount of 'pork' including a new sports complex and a $4 million swimming pool. Should this bond issue pass, our outstanding debt will be six times the current level and will equate to $16,700 per child," said McCoy prior to the election. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Looking forward now, the board is expected to set the new tax rate for the district on October 3. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The current tax rate is set at $1.59. That amount includes $1.46 for maintenance and operation and 13-cents for interest and sinking fund (or debt service). Advertisement Article continues below this ad Superintendent John Neubauer said in a released statement, "Once again the good people of Tomball have put their trust in our school board and administration. We will honor that public trust by carefully planning and completing the renovation and building projects as called for in the bond proposition. I extend my heartfelt gratitude to our taxpayers and the many dedicated people who worked so hard to make this happen for our students. The passage of this bond truly indicates that our Tomball community has great foresight to ensure that the students' needs will be met over the next several years. We are a progressive community that is positioned for an exciting future." Advertisement Article continues below this ad XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Our School - Tomball High School] ---
Our School Mascot Cougar The Tomball Fight Song O when the Tomball Cougars fall in line, we're going to win this game another time, For the dear old school we'll yell, and yell and yell. Our team is full of spirit, pep and go. For the dear old school we love so well. Fight, Fight, Fight!!! Campus Accolades 2024-25 2023-24 School History Tomball High School… In the Beginning In 1908, school was first held in Tomball in the Woodmen of the World building, which was a one room framed building that educated nearly 15 students. The community soon made plans to build a school. Land on Cherry Street was donated, and by 1910 a school was built. The two-story red brick schoolhouse, which was part of the Harris County School System, consisted of two classrooms downstairs and an auditorium upstairs. By 1916, 62 students attended the school. As of 1928, the community grew and consisted of four schools. By 1931, the district employed five teachers. By 1935, the original schoolhouse was torn down and replaced with a new buff brick building that contained grades one through eleven. In 1937, a petition was presented to the Harris County School Board requesting that Tomball have its own school district. That petition was granted and all funds and debts were transferred to the Tomball Independent School District. The school on Cherry Street had grown so much that by 1938 a second campus was needed. Therefore, the district built a new red brick high school with a gymnasium and a swimming pool, which was located in the 700 block of Main Street. Tragedy Strikes On a cold winter morning in 1961, sparks from an electrical fire in the attic of the high school on Main Street erupted into a fire that completely destroyed the building. The Houston Fire Department responded. Fire fighters dropped a hose into the swimming pool that was adjacent to the school in order to extinguish the flames. School was dismissed for four days. Churches and other businesses throughout the community offered their facilities so the high school students could complete the school year. Continued Growth By 1974, students began attending classes at the new Tomball High School on Sandy Lane, which later became Quinn Road. Continued growth over the decades meant there was a need for additional classrooms. In 2000, voters approved a $98.4 million bond referendum that enabled the district to renovate Tomball High School. Since that time, Tomball High School has increased its enrollment to over 1,800 students, and earned a Recognized rating from the Texas Education Agency, which determines state accountability ratings based on data collected via the Academic Excellence Indicator System. Tomball High School has also met Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) standards under the federal accountability system. AYP ratings are based on student performance on the TAKS test, the percentage of students participating in the assessment process, and performance on additional indicators such as student attendance and graduation rates. Tomball High School maintains strong academic, extracurricular, and athletic programs. Our students have earned numerous national, state, regional, and local honors and awards. Collectively, graduating seniors receive over $2.5 million in scholarships each year from various foundations, colleges, and universities. The future is brighter than ever for our students. They make us proud, and they make Tomball High School the “Pride of Texas.”


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com] ---
Advertisement many [men-ee] adjective constituting or forming a large number; numerous. many people. noting each one of a large number (usually followed by a oran ). For many a day it rained. noun a large or considerable number of persons or things. A good many of the beggars were blind. the many, the greater part of humankind. pronoun many persons or things. Many of the beggars were blind. Many were unable to attend. many / ˈmɛnɪ / determiner a large number of many coaches many times ( as pronoun; functioning as plural ) many are seated already each of a considerable number of many a man a great number of as many apples as you like too many clouds to see ( as pronoun; functioning as plural ) I have as many as you noun the majority of mankind, esp the common people Compare few the many are kept in ignorance while the few prosper Other Word Forms - overmany adjective Word History and Origins Origin of many1 Word History and Origins Origin of many1 Idioms and Phrases Synonym Study Example Sentences Even without its top red zone receiver and its steadiest offensive linemen, USC’s offense didn’t show many signs of slowing down last Saturday. "For many years people have questioned whether being a content creator is a real job, and whether you can actually build a sustainable career from it," she told the BBC. The mother of a young Londonderry adult with complex needs has said the care system is failing him and many others his age. It was not an easy task and faced many obstacles on the way. "There's a lot of people who don't get here – but I have tenacity. I have resilience, which I'm very grateful for, because no matter how many times I've fallen down, I've bounced up again." Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Browse
