=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bunka Fashion College - Wikipedia]
The college was founded in 1919 by Isaburō Namiki as a small dressmaking school for girls called Namiki Dressmaking School, at a time when European-style clothing for women was only available for affluent families. [1] In 1936, the name of the school became Bunka Fashion College, and it began publishing So-en, Japan's first fashion magazine.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunka_Fashion_College

[BUNKA Fashion College - English - 服飾・ファッション東京の専門学校文化服装学院]
Japan's first fashion school Bunka Fashion College was founded as a small dressmaking school in 1919. Most Japanese wore a kimono at that time. Approved as the first dressmaking school in Japan in 1923, the College has produced about 300,000 alumni, and has played a significant role in fashion education in Japan for about 100 years.
URL: https://www.bunka-fc.ac.jp/en/

[Bunka Fashion College - Shibuya, Tokyo - Japan Travel]
Jun 8, 2016 · President Satoshi Onuma explains, "Bunka Fashion College was founded in 1923 as the first dressmaking school in Japan. Back then most of the female students wore kimono, they came here to learn how to make western garments for family members and their children.
URL: https://en.japantravel.com/tokyo/bunka-fashion-college/29271

[History | Educational Foundation BUNKA GAKUEN]
School name changed to Bunka Sewing School for Women. Accredited as Japan's first school of Western-style sewing. Decision that June 23 be the anniversary of the school's founding.
URL: https://www.bunka.ac.jp/en/history/

[Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashion]
The beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s ...
URL: https://artsandculture.google.com/story/%E6%97%A5%E6%9C%AC%E3%81%AE%E3%83%95%E3%82%A1%E3%83%83%E3%82%B7%E3%83%A7%E3%83%B3%E3%81%AE%E3%81%82%E3%82%86%E3%81%BF/9gVRcVqm1sl1Iw


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bunka Fashion College - Wikipedia] ---
Bunka Fashion College (文化服装学院, Bunka Fukusō Gakuin) is a Japanese vocational school specializing in fashion design and related disciplines. It is headquartered in Shinjuku, Tokyo, and has more than 70 branches throughout Japan.


--- [BUNKA Fashion College - English - 服飾・ファッション東京の専門学校文化服装学院] ---
Information 2025/03 Ranked 12th in the world’s fashion school rankings by CEOWORLD magazine 2025/12 FINALISTES DU PRIX LVMH PRIZE 2025（SOSHIOTSUKI BY Soshi Otsuki） 2021/06 DEMI-FINALISTES DU PRIX LVMH PRIZE 2021（TAAKK BY TAKUYA MORIKAWA） 2021/06 DEMI-FINALISTES DU PRIX LVMH PRIZE 2021（MIDORIKAWA BY TAKUYA MORIKAWA） Why people choose Bunka Fashion College Japan’s first fashion school Bunka Fashion College was founded as a small dressmaking school in 1919. Most Japanese wore a kimono at that time. Approved as the first dressmaking school in Japan in 1923, the College has produced about 300,000 alumni, and has played a significant role in fashion education in Japan for about 100 years. Recognized as the most prestigious fashion school in Asia In 2015, the College placed second in the global rankings of the best fashion schools by the fashion news website “The Business of Fashion” and the business magazine “CEOWORLD Magazine.” It was selected as one of the global best 25 fashion schools by the fashion website “Fashionista” in 2018, the only school in Asia to have won the honor. Bunka Fashion College gains recognition as the most prestigious fashion school in Asia. Bunka alumni working on the world stage Bunka Fashion College has produced many great designers working on the world stage. We have helped raise Japanese fashion to the world’s top level, and continue to send out talent to the forefront of the fashion world. [Meet some of Bunka alumni being active in Japan’s and international fashion industry] Hiroko Koshino / Kenzo Takada / Junko Koshino / Yohji Yamamoto / Chisato Tsumori / Junya Watanabe / Keita Maruyama / Junichi Abe (kolor) / Hisayo Hidaka,Hideaki Miyahara (Scye) / Akira Minagawa (minä perhonen) / Jun Takahashi (UNDERCOVER) / NIGO / Hidenori Kumakiri,Masayoshi Toda,Yusuke Wakabayashi (beautiful people) / Yoshiyuki Miyamae (ISSEY MIYAKE) / Hiroyuki Horihata,Makiko Sekiguchi (matohu) / Tamae Hirokawa (SOMARTA) / Keisuke Kanda (keisuke kanda) /Hiromichi Ochiai (FACETASM)/ Takuya Morikawa (TAAKK) / Norio Terada (YOKE)/ Ryota Iwai (AURALEE) / Kanae Higashi (rurumu:)) / Shimpei Goto (MASU) etc.. Spacious campus in the heart of Tokyo Bunka Fashion College is situated in Shinjuku, one of Tokyo’s busiest metropolitan centers, intersected by many railway lines and full of skyscrapers. With easy access to Shibuya, the epicenter of Japan’s fashion culture, the campus comprises of a building with twenty floors above ground and one underground floor. The College is a gathering place for those engaged in the industry, providing access to information on the latest fashion trends around the world. A wide selection of courses - Gaining a general ability and knowledge of garment creation Fashion Creation Department Garment Creation is a two-year course, in which students can gain a general ability and knowledge of garment creation. Those who have completed the course can move up to an advanced garment creation course in the third year, to develop high level specialist skills. Intensive Garment Creation is a one-year course designed for graduates of specialized vocational schools, junior colleges, or universities to learn the foundations of fashion and more advanced skills and knowledge. - Becoming a specialist in planning and production Fashion Technology Department Creative Design Advanced Diploma is a four-year course to nurture superior talent to play a leading role in the planning and production stage of the apparel industry. There are also three-year courses, in which students can gain a broad range of fundamental and professional knowledge and skills to develop their own areas of specialization. - Aiming to be an expert in business and distribution Fashion Marketing and Distribution Department Global Fashion Business Advanced Diploma is a four-year course to nurture fashion business creators to work on the international fashion stage. Foundations of Styling and Distribution is a two-year course, in which students can learn the fundamentals of fashion and fashion marketing and distribution in the first year and move up to specialist courses to develop their own areas of specialization in the second year. There is an extra one-year advanced course available. - Becoming a professional in fashion accessories and textiles Fashion Accessories and Textiles Department Fashion Textiles is a three-year course, in which students can develop specialist textile skills. There are another two courses, in which students can systematically learn advanced knowledge and skills on their area of expertise: Jewelry Design, Bag Design. An environment that helps develop your ability - Well-equipped facilities with such a high quality that even professionals appreciate them - Bunka Fashion College’s spacious campus comprises of a building that has classrooms, training rooms, research laboratories, and computer rooms on every floor. They are well designed to cover every aspect of the fashion industry, ranging from planning, design, production, to distribution. Each training room is equipped with equipment and tools which are similar to those used in the workplaces of the industry, to develop work-ready graduates. - Courses in specialist fields are designed to allow students to become what they want to be - There are many occupations in the fashion industry. They include specialists in the planning and production stages, such as designers and pattern makers, stylists, and those engaged in the distribution stage, such as buyers. We at Bunka Fashion College have a wide range of specialized courses to help you become what you want to be, which are well designed to enable our students to pursue their chosen paths as professionals. - Fully supporting the learning of all levels of students under a tutoring system - Around 90% of new entrants to Bunka Fashion College have no experience in garment creation. We introduce a tutoring system in which a teacher takes charge of a class to pay close attention to individual students. Through the system, we fully help students build basic skills and become ready to enter the industry. - Helping you settle into life in Japan - Bunka Fashion College has four dedicated dormitories . There are resident dormitory managers or mothers in each dormitory so that students can enjoy their school life without any worry in terms of health and security. Many international students have started off their lives in Japan from here. Classmates coming from different parts of the world About 20% of the students of Bunka Fashion College are international students coming from different parts of the world. You can study together with them and compete with and encourage each other in an international learning environment.（As of October 2023） - - China - 362 - - Korea - 109 - - Taiwan - 51 - - Hong Kong - 10 - - Indonesia - 5 - - Thailand - 6 - - England - 3 - - USA - 4 - - Vietnam - 2 - - Russia - 3 - - Malaysia - 7 - - France - 2 - - Sweden - 1 - - Singapore - 1 - - Poland - 1 - - Ecuador - 1 - - Spain - 1 - - Czechia - 1 - - Israel - 1 - - Kyrgyzstan - 1 - - Chile - 1 - - Argentina - 1 Comments from international students SONG Shuang Fashion Distribution Department Two Year Retail Planning CourseEmployed at: Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings (Japan) At university, I studied as an international student I Fukuoka for a year. While I was there I happened to see an introductory briefing about Bunka Fashion College. I was impressed by the professor’s talk and by the fashion. I felt intuitively that everything I wanted to study was there. In the first year, we studied business basics and market research quite widely, and I had the experience of actually making a jacket. I wanted to become a buyer, so I elected to do the retail planning course in my second year. I had the chance to mix with people from a variety of backgrounds, and I think the environment there really helped broaden my outlook. ZHU Jie Apparel Design department 3rd yearEmployed at: Arpege Co., Ltd I majored in fashion at university in China, and I felt that I need to learn the fundamentals more thoroughly. I knew that many famous Japanese designers were alumni of Bunka Fashion College, and I had read some of the College’s textbooks, and I really wanted to go there, so I came to Japan and enrolled. Japan is very clean and the food is tasty and safe, so it is very easy to live here. I feel that the basics that I learned in my first year are really helping me now in my third year. PILGRIM Bonnie Kate Retail Planning, the second year of Foundations of Styling and Distribution When I was in high school, I had experience of living in Japan for a year as an exchange student, and I really wanted to come back. I got interested in Bunka Fashion College when watching videos on the website, and I decided to enter the College. I gained the knowledge of fashion and learned Japanese through group works and lessons in the College. I took part in the College’ fashion show as a model, and I have really good memories of working late into the night with my classmates to prepare for the event. It was a valuable experience that allowed me to come into contact with different kinds of people and different ways of thinking. NSINGI Nsinao Morangi First year of Fashion Textiles BUNKA FASHION COLLEGE TOUR || TEXTILE DESIGN BUNKA FASHION COLLEGE || TOKYO VLOG #2 I studied fashion at high school in my own country, and I got interested in textiles. When attending a Japanese-language school, I went to Bunka Fashion College’s fashion show and was blown away by the creativity of the participating students and felt a desire to study at the College. There are more non-Japanese students in my class, so I’ve made friends with people from a lot of different countries. I’ve gotten a firm grasp of the foundations of Japanese fashion. After graduating from the College, I want to work in Japan.


--- [Bunka Fashion College - Shibuya, Tokyo - Japan Travel] ---
No content


--- [History | Educational Foundation BUNKA GAKUEN] ---
- BUNKA FASHION COLLEGE History - BUNKA GAKUEN UNIVERSITY History 1919 Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking School established. 1922 Bunka Sewing School opened. Isaburo Namiki established the Bunka-style pattern cutting method and authored Lecture Notes on Women’s and Children’s Clothing (Fujin Kodomo Fuku Kogiroku). 1923 School name changed to Bunka Sewing School for Women. Accredited as Japan's first school of Western-style sewing. Decision that June 23 be the anniversary of the school's founding. 1927 Bunka Sewing School for Women moved to the current location in Yoyogi, Tokyo. 1934 Complete Book on Dressmaking (Yosai Zensho) and fashion magazine Fashion Culture (Fukuso Bunka) published. 1935 Incorporated Foundation Namiki Gakuen authorized. 1936 Six-volume Bunka Dressmaking Course (Bunka Yosai Koza) completed. Fashion research magazine Soen launched. Bunka Sewing School for Women changed its name to Bunka Fashion College (Bunka Fukuso Gakuin). 1946 Bunka Fashion College’s opening ceremony held following the end of World War II. Morning, afternoon, and evening (every other day) three-session system established. 1947 Bunka Fashion College Chain School System established. 1950 Bunka Women's Junior College opened. 1953 Bunka Fashion College established Japan’s first Fashion Model Training Department. Fashion shows held at the school and in Tokyo (Tokyo Kaikan), Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka, inviting Christian Dior and his delegation from France. 1954 Bunka Fashion College covered in the New York Times. Fashion show held, inviting Howard Greer and his delegation from the USA. 1955 Circular school building completed. 1956 Soen Award, considered a gateway to success for fashion designers, established in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of Soen. 1957 Male students enrolled in Bunka Fashion College’s instructor course for the first time since the school opened. Bunka Fashion College Correspondence Education Division set up. 1958 French designer Pierre Cardin visited Japan and held a show at Bunka Fashion College’s auditorium. 1960 Fashion magazine High Fashion launched. Namiki Gakuen sends its first clothing research delegation to the West. Second and third delegations sent later. 1961 Show of French designers, Maggy Rouff and Jacques Griffe, held. Pierre Cardin visited Bunka Fashion College again and was made an honorary professor of the school. High Fashion’s Pierre Cardin Prize established. Women’s magazine Mrs. (Misesu) launched. 1962 Hokuryuko Lodge and Bunka Hokuryuko Ski Area opened. 1963 Design awards Endo Award and Namiki Award established in commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Bunka Gakuen. 1964 Bunka Women's University opened. Bunka Women's Junior College becomes Bunka Women's University Junior College. 1966 Paris Branch of Soen opened in Paris, France. 1967 Karuizawa Lodge opened. 1969 Bunka Women's University Muroran Junior College opened. Bunka Women's University Library (currently Bunka Gakuen Library) opened. British Fair Fashion Show, co-organized by the British government, held at Toranomon Hall in Tokyo. Bunka Fashion College’s partnership with the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT), State University of New York in New York City, USA established. 1972 Bunka Women's University Graduate School established. Sumire Kindergarten affiliated with Bunka Women's University opened. 1973 Corporate name changed to Educational Foundation Bunka Gakuen. London Fashion Festival, co-organized by the British government, held at Toranomon Hall in Tokyo. 1974 Suginami Senior High School affiliated with Bunka Women's University opened. 1975 Pierre Cardin visited Bunka Fashion College again and held a fashion show at the school auditorium. 1976 Bunka Fashion College approved as a vocational college under a special training college system. Kindergarten affiliated with Bunka Women's University Muroran Junior College opened. 1979 Endo Memorial Hall completed. Bunka Gakuen Costume Museum opened. 1980 Bunka Institute of Language opened. Fashion Creation Department, Fashion Technology Department, and Fashion Marketing and Distribution Department established as part of Bunka Fashion College’s education system reforms. 1983 Bunka Fashion College’s Fashion Accessories and Textiles Department established. Nagano High School and Nagano Vocational School affiliated with Bunka Women's University opened. 1985 Kodaira campus completed. 1986 Suginami Junior High School affiliated with Bunka Women's University opened. 1989 Graduate school’s Doctoral Program in Environmental Clothing Studies established. 1991 University’s Faculty of Literature established at the Kodaira campus. 1994 Bunka Fashion College started new curriculum system and transferred to credits system. 1996 Bunka Fashion Open College opened. 1998 A 21-story skyscraper (A, B and C Wings) completed as the new school building. Graduate school’s Master’s Program in Living Environment Studies established. 1999 Bunka Gakuen Fashion Resource Center opened. Bunka Research Lab for General Study of Fashion, the Bunka Research Lab for Style and Function of Fashion, and the Bunka Research Lab for Future Fashion established. 2000 The Plaza completed. University’s Faculty of Home Economics divided into the Faculty of Fashion Science and the Faculty of Art and Design under a new education and research system. 2002 Bunka Gakuen International Communication Center completed. 2003 Shinjuku Bunka Quint Building completed. Bunka Fashion Business School opened. Bunka Research Lab for Clothing Environment and the Bunka Research Lab for Dwelling Environment opened. Bunka Fashion College opened Japan Bunka Fashion College at Donghua University in China. University’s BUNKA Festival selected as “Support Program for Distinctive University Education” of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan. 2004 Bunka Fashion College’s review board meeting convened for the Endo, Namiki, and Men’s Fashion Awards that were renamed the Bunka Fashion College Fashion Contest. University’s Faculty of Literature name changed to Faculty of Liberal Arts and Sciences. History of Japan’s Fashion exhibition held at the Nagano Prefectural Shinano Art Museum in commemoration of the 80th anniversary of Bunka Gakuen and the 20th anniversary of Bunka Nagano Gakuen. 2005 Bunka Gakuen Intellectual Property Center opened. University hosted the annual conference of the 7th International Foundation of Fashion Technology Institutes (IFFTI). 2006 Bunka Fashion Graduate University (BFGU) opend. 2007 Bunka Fashion College’s four-year Creative Design (Advanced Diploma) course established. 2008 Bunka Fashion College Hiroshima opend. Bunka Fashion Research Institute opened. University’s admission quota for international students established. Bunka Gakuen Academic Archive Center completed. 2010 Bunka Fashion Incubation completed. 2011 Binka Women’s University and Bunka Women’s University Junior College changed its name to Bunka Gakuen University and Bunka Gakuen University Junior College. Bunka Gakuen International Institute of Fashion in Industry and Academia established. 2012 University and Junior College’s male-female co-education started at all faculties and departments. The first class of male students enrolled. Bunka Fashion College’s second collaboration school in China, Lumei & Bunka International Fashion College, opened at the Dalian campus of LuXun Academy of Fine Arts. 2013 Bunka Research Lab for Fashion Textiles, Laboratory for Japanese Dress Culture opened. Former Fuji Student Hall renovated and opened as Shion Student Hall.


--- [Bunka Fashion College: A timeline of Japanese fashion] ---
Japan’s first fashion school opens The beginnings of Bunka Fashion College can be traced back to 1919, around the time of the end of the First World War. It started with Isaburo Namiki opening a small establishment called Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking, in Aoyama, Akasaka-ku, Tokyo. After working many years as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing, Namiki struck out on his own and opened this sewing school. But the sudden popularity of children’s clothing meant that there were not enough skilled sewers to meet demand. Namiki paved the way for the teaching of dressmaking, believing that it should be taught in a shorter period of time, and as a basic part of the skills of a housewife, rather than by initiating people into the art of dressmaking through long-term apprenticeships. Flag of Bunka Fashion College (1919/1919)Bunka Fashion College Reforming Japanese fashion Seijiro Endo, who was a salesman at a sewing machine company, was shocked at the fact that housewives were failing to take advantage of the sewing machine because of their lack of knowledge of how to make Western clothes, and felt the establishment of an institution that would teach appropriate dressmaking was urgently needed. Endo met Namiki, and the two men were in complete agreement about reforming Japanese fashion. Endo envisioned a time in the future when fashion in Japan would change from traditional Japanese clothing to Western clothing. Bunka fashion College (1955-10)Bunka Fashion College Bunka Sewing School In 1922, the shop became the Bunka Sewing School, located in a three-story timber structure at Fukuro-machi, Ushigome, Tokyo. It started with four students and seven apprentices. The following year, the school was renamed in accordance with a Tokyo ordinance and began a bright new future as Bunka Sewing School for Women. Isaburo Namiki Namiki was born in 1887 in Saitama Prefecture. He showed an unusually keen interest in sewing from an early age, and in 1903, at the introduction of Sekiko Toita, he went to study with Ijima Fujin Yofuku Ten (“Ijima Women’s Clothier”) a third-generation tailor dating from the Meiji Era. Over the course of 18 years, he attained profound skill and experience as a tailor of women’s and children’s clothing. In 1919, he opened his own establishment, Namiki Women's and Children's Dressmaking Shop, which included a school for women's and children's dressmaking. After working as a teacher in the Western clothing department of Toita Saiho Jogakko (“Toita Girls’ Sewing School”) and Shinga Mishin Saiho Jogakko (“Singer Sewing Machine Girls' School”), in 1922, he established the Bunka Sewing School, and served as its head. At the dawn of the age of dressmaking in Japan, he devised a teaching system utilizing patterns, establishing a foundation for fashion education. He died in 1933 at the age of 46. Seijiro Endo Endo was born in 1894 in Iwate Prefecture. In 1917, he went to Tokyo, worked as an interpreter for visitors to Japan. Interested in English he joined Singer Sewing Machine Company the same year, and achieved tremendous success as a salesman. In 1919, he met Namiki Isaburo, and while helping him to manage his school, he came to see fashion education as his life’s mission, and left Singer, devoting himself to the school’s administration. He recruited students and worked on PR, expanded publishing projects such as Fukuso Bunka (“Fashion Culture”), Soen, and Bunka Fukuso Koza (“Bunka Fashion Course”), and fostered the Bunka Fashion College Network, contributing to the organization and prosperity of the College. He died in 1960 at the age of 66. Design of patterns This pattern dates back to when Isaburo Namiki founded the school, devised according to his own unique system for teaching sewing skills. Incorporating techniques from cutting experts, he made patterns that expressed body dimensions and characteristics in two-dimensional form. Dress patterns made on this basis could be easily applied to a large range of garments. This thinking has been passed down to the present, with patterns being researched and produced for each period in order to match changing body shapes. Teachers were fashion trendsetters! Women wearing a new style—short skirts with low waistlines and bobbed hair and cloches—were called ”modern girls” or simply “moga.” Although Kimonos were still common, people were gradually becoming accustomed to Western clothing, and teachers sporting the “moga” style became fashion trendsetters for their students. Publishing Department In 1934, the Publishing Department was established in the Bunka Sewing School for Women, the precursor of today’s Bunka Publishing Bureau. In addition to the fact that publishing books that could be used as textbooks was a more effective way of educating the increasing number of students, the school also aimed to popularize fashion education and enhance fashion culture. All six volumes of Bunka Yosai Koza (“Bunka Dressmaking Course”) were completed in 1935, after a year of work. The culmination of years of teaching traditional fashion, these volumes also came to be used in correspondence courses, and raised the school’s reputation to the highest level in the industry. Western clothing and dressmaking skills It became commonplace for Japanese to wear Western clothing after the First World War. Stores selling clothes for women and children could be found throughout town, and demand for children’s clothing in particular increased rapidly. As a result, there was a lack of skilled dressmakers, and dressmaking schools began to pop up everywhere. Bunka Fashion College became Japan’s first full-fledged, accredited dressmaking trade school in 1923, right around the time when the wearing of Western clothing in Japan was becoming more popular than ever. There was also a marked increase in women wearing Western clothing after the Great Kanto earthquake, which struck in September of the same year, and highlighted the need for improvements in clothing. It was the golden age of the Western clothing industry in Japan, and saw an increase in the number of dressmaking schoo Student Union (1950/1950)Bunka Fashion College The Showa Era, beginning in 1926, became the age of technology. The technological wellspring of Bunka Fashion College was the artisan’s skills the school’s founder, Isaburo Namiki, had acquired working at clothing stores. Many teachers started out as tailors at long-established stores, and created practical courses that respected and passed on these artisanal skills, initiating students into the secrets of the trade in the classroom. And, after the Second World War, information from Europe and the U.S. became freely available, marking the beginning of an upbeat age full of new, exciting things and experiences. Graphic designers became more prominent, and there was also growing demand for professional training in order to foster designers in the field of fashion design. Class Scene (1951/1951)Bunka Fashion College In 1951, design courses were launched. At the time, with teachers also serving as designers, the College felt a need to train designers early on, and put effort into educating Japanese designers. Postwar Japanese fashion and influences from outside Japan During the occupation after the Second World War, American fashion and culture flowed into Japan. Young women adopted made-over dresses with a military look, using shoulder pads with blouses and sweaters. Soon after it came back into publication, Soen gave extensive coverage to these American styles, and the College studied these new lines. In 1947, a new designer, Christian Dior, made a spectacular debut in Paris, and Parisian fashion became the focus of global attention—a new look with gentle shoulder lines and long, flowing flared skirts. News from Paris also became an important source for fashion designs. In 1953, as part of the events celebrating the 30th anniversary of the College’s founding, Christian Dior and his entourage were invited to Japan, and fashion shows were held in Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osaka. The Paris fashions displayed at the shows caused excitement throughout Japanese society, extending far beyond the fashion world. Afterwards many other designers came to Japan and held shows at the College, allowing students to see and study top shows from abroad when they were studying. Aiming to become the world’s top designers The first male students entered the College in 1957. The fact that 23 of 7,000 new students were men made the headlines. The head of the college, Seijiro Endo, expressed the following sentiment: “The world’s top designers and pattern cutters are men. It is my hope that you become active at the forefront as teachers and designers.” Many of the male students were aspiring designers, and are said to have clearly stated on their applications that they wanted to make lifelong careers as designers. Kenzo Takada and Mitsuhiro Matsuda, who were male students who entered the College the following year, and many others thereafter went on to become designers active in global fashion. New curriculums for professional training in fashion Demand for new curriculums arose as more professional education became necessary to train designers for the field of fashion. So, in 1951, the College launched design courses. Courses were created, with first-rate teachers brought in from each field, to study new ways of making clothes by working from the design concept on up. The fashion industry entered the age of prêt-à-porter in the 1970s, against a backdrop of mass production and consumption. The College also underwent its second education reform. In 1976, with changes to the legislative framework for specialized training colleges, the College developed a three-pillared education policy that took into greater consideration new forms of professional training in fashion. Hat department class (1971/1971)Bunka Fashion College Fashion Creation courses are programs that teach general fashion knowledge and skills. Fashion Technology courses teach specialized knowledge and skills in fields that manufacture fashion products, with the aim of training students to work in the apparel industry. Fashion Marketing and Distribution courses train students to be able to work with distribution channels in the industry. Fashion Accessories and Textiles courses were added in 1983, and continue to the present day. Japanese designers go out into the world In the 1970s, a growing number of Japanese travelled to Paris, which was the mecca of fashion, including many graduates from Bunka Fashion College, who worked hard in Paris in the midst of harsh social circumstances. Of them, Kenzo Takada (fashion design) became one of the most well-known Japanese at the time. He opened a store in the key Fashion district, and became a great success, on a par with Yves Saint Laurent and Sonia Rykiel. Fashion Show (1979/1979)Bunka Fashion College The fashion show, “Ten Designers on the World Stage,” celebrating the 60th anniversary of the College’s founding, was held by graduates for the opening of Endo Memorial Hall. The brand names of each designer shone like neon on the stage, and the brightly colored clothes of Kenzo Takada were a great success. Yutaka Hasegawa, Tadayomi Sakaide, Norio Suzuki, Mitsuhiro Matsuda (Nicole), Yohji Yamamoto (Yohji Yamamoto), Hiroko Koshino (Hiroko Koshino), Junko Koshino (Junko Koshino), Meiko Kitahara (Mine May), and Isao Kaneko (Pink House) each presented marvelous shows. These were a great inspiration for students at the College, who looked up to these graduates of their school. Stars born thanks to Soen Award, a gateway to success for new designers In 1956, the Soen Award was established in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the magazine Soen. Created with the aim of fostering new designers, it was conceived as a gateway to success that would send new young talent into the fashion world. Advertisement of Soen (1956/1956)Bunka Fashion College Jurors consisted of a veritable who’s who of the fashion world at the time, including Bunka Fashion College teachers. An air of excitement filled the jury venue as fashion design underwent serious scrutiny, with questions such as “How should clothes be made to reflect the mood of the times?” and “What does it mean to create the clothes for the future?” All students attempted to win the Soen Award, and the number of challengers has increased year by year. The fact that Bunka Fashion College design students win year after year serves as a wonderful incentive for fellow classmates aiming to become professional designers. Prize-winning productions for Soen Fashon Contest in the past (1968) by Junko Koshino, Kenzo Takada, Tokio Kumagai, Yohji YamamotoBunka Fashion College Japanese fashion draws global attention In 2015, Bunka Fashion College was ranked second in the world in the Global Ranking of Fashion Schools published by UK fashion information website The Business of Fashion. The fact that it receives such high acclaim from outside Japan demonstrates the global industry's confidence in Bunka Fashion College’s history and educational policies, as well as high expectations for its future. Fashion ShowBunka Fashion College New fashion quest Since its foundation, Bunka Fashion College has worked closely with the fashion industry as a central actor in Japanese fashion education, and developed together with the industry. As a leader in Japanese fashion education, it explores new forms of fashion that adapt to the times, engaging in joint research with companies and participating in collaborative initiatives that involve industry, government, and academia. Japanese fashion will continue to evolve and produce creators capable of performing on the global stage as a result of Bunka Fashion College continuing to hone students’ individuality and fashion sense, and ensuring that they acquire the knowledge and skills required to compete at an international level. You are all set! Your first Culture Weekly will arrive this week.
