=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Richard Fenno - Wikipedia]
Richard Francis Fenno Jr. (December 12, 1926 - April 21, 2020) was an American political scientist known for his pioneering work on the U.S. Congress and its members. [1][2] He was a Distinguished University Professor Emeritus at the University of Rochester. [3][4] He published numerous books and scholarly articles focused on how members of Congress interacted with each other, with ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Fenno

[Home Style: House Members in Their Districts - Richard F. Fenno ...]
"Home Style: House Members in Their Districts, the landmark study of eighteen representatives of Congress in their districts, by Richard F. Fenno, Jr., won the 1979 Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award and the 1980 D. B. Hardeman prize. The text presents a coherent picture of what elected house members see when they view their constituencies, and how these perceptions affect their political ...
URL: https://books.google.com/books/about/Home_Style.html?id=p4UrAQAAMAAJ

[In Memory of Richard Fenno : Department of Political Science ...]
Not only was he President of the American Political Science Association, but the Association's Prestage-Fenno Fund promotes and supports expanded opportunities for minority students contemplating advanced training in Political Science, and its Legislative Studies Section annually presents the Richard F. Fenno Prize for the best book on ...
URL: https://www.sas.rochester.edu/psc/people/richard-fenno/index.html

[Biography - Richard F. Fenno Jr.]
In 1976, Fenno was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. Fenno received two awards for his book, Home Style. In 1979, he won the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the following year the D.B. Hardeman Prize, from the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library. Fenno was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983.
URL: https://richardfenno.com/about/ur-archives-bio/

[Richard F. Fenno | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Fenno received two awards for his book, Home Style. In 1979, he won the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the following year the D.B. Hardeman Prize, from the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library. Fenno was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983. From 1984 - 1985 Fenno served as President of the American Political Science Association.
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/richard-f-fenno


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Richard Fenno - Wikipedia] ---
Richard Francis Fenno Jr. (December 12, 1926 – April 21, 2020) was an American political scientist known for his pioneering work on the U.S. Congress and its members. He was a Distinguished University Professor Emeritus at the University of Rochester. He published numerous books and scholarly articles focused on how members of Congress interacted with each other, with committees, and with constituents. Political scientists considered the research groundbreaking and startlingly original and gave him numerous awards. Many followed his research design on how to follow members from Washington back to their home districts. Fenno was best known for identifying the tendency — dubbed "Fenno's Paradox" — of how most voters say they dislike Congress as a whole, but they trust and reelect their local Congressman.


--- [Home Style: House Members in Their Districts - Richard F. Fenno ...] ---
Home Style: House Members in Their Districts"Home Style: House Members in Their Districts, the landmark study of eighteen representatives of Congress in their districts, by Richard F. Fenno, Jr., won the 1979 Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award and the 1980 D. B. Hardeman prize. The text presents a coherent picture of what elected house members see when they view their constituencies, and how these perceptions affect their political behavior. During nearly eight years of research the author accompanied eighteen representatives of diverse backgrounds in their districts for a unique "over-the-shoulder" perspective on congressional home style. Professor Fenno's observational approach in enlivened with many examples and lends itself to a readable analysis." -- Publisher's description | Contents Chapter One Perceptions of the Constituency | 1 | Allocation of Resources | 31 | Presentation of Self I | 54 | Copyright | | 10 other sections not shown Other editions - View all Common terms and phrases allocative answer behavior believe bers campaign Capitol Hill caucus Congressman constituency careers context County decision Democratic district staff election electoral expansionist explain explanatory explanatory styles feel Fenno friends geographical constituency gressman gun control heterogeneous districts home activity home style homogeneous House members important incumbent interest interview issue-oriented issues John Bibby John Kingdon kind legislative meetings members of Congress never number of trips opponent organization participant observation party patterns percent person-to-person Political Science political scientists politicians presentational style primary constituency problem protectionist question rapport redistricting reelection constituency relationship representation representative Republican roll call roll call votes rural seniority someone spend stituency strategy strongest supporters stylistic supportive constituents talk tell thing tion town trips home visits vote voters Washington career worry


--- [In Memory of Richard Fenno : Department of Political Science ...] ---
On April 21, 2020, Richard F. Fenno, Distinguished University Professor Emeritus, passed away in Rye, New York, at the age of 93. Dick joined the University of Rochester in 1957 and served with distinction for over a half-century, only concluding his academic career in 2013 with the publication of The Challenges of Congressional Representation (Harvard University Press). At Rochester, at a time when the University itself was transforming into a major research university, Fenno was instrumental in the development of the Department of Political Science into an influential, PhD-granting department. Working alongside William H. Riker, who arrived in 1962, a doctoral program was created, and over the years, Fenno mentored a large number of students who went on to distinguished careers that shaped the study of American politics and with whom he maintained enduring friendships. Fenno also assumed a prominent role in the undergraduate program, teaching generations of students about the ins and outs of the United States Congress and developing lifelong relationships with many. Fenno took particular pride in setting up the Washington Semester Program, where Rochester students could intern on Capitol Hill. In the same spirit, Richard and his wife Nancy, along with numerous friends and students, in more recent years began an endowment to award Richard and Nancy Fenno Summer Fellowships, so that University of Rochester undergraduate students could have unpaid internships in the political world during summers between academic years. As a scholar, Fenno was the most renowned student of the United States Congress of his generation. While his early work included a number of non-legislative topics, most notably the role of the President’s Cabinet, the vast bulk of his studies—which includes a staggering 19 books—was on the Congress. Dick contributed seminal understandings of both the internal workings of the legislature and on how elected officials interact with their constituencies. Among his most notable publications are: The Power of the Purse (Little, Brown and Co., 1966), Congressmen in Committees (Little, Brown and Co., 1973), and Home Style (Little, Brown and Co., 1978; winner of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the D.B. Hardeman Prize). Fenno was known for his penchant for field work, spending much time in Washington and on the road with his subjects, lightheartedly referred to as "soaking and poking." Fenno received numerous accolades in his career. Among them were a Guggenheim Fellowship and memberships in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society. Not only was he President of the American Political Science Association, but the Association’s Prestage-Fenno Fund promotes and supports expanded opportunities for minority students contemplating advanced training in Political Science, and its Legislative Studies Section annually presents the Richard F. Fenno Prize for the best book on legislative studies. Beyond all this, Dick Fenno will be long remembered as a caring, warm and gracious human being, teacher, colleague, and friend, not just to those with Rochester connections but to friends, students, and peers far and wide. Despite all his time on the road, Dick was always happy to come home to Rochester to do his writing and teaching during the academic year and to spend his summers with Nancy on his beloved Cape Cod. We are grateful that none of the host of tempting alternatives offered to Dick and Nancy ever lured them away from Rochester. He will be sorely missed. For those who wish to learn more about Richard F. Fenno, and to explore his writings and research materials, visit The Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Papers, which are maintained and made accessible at the River Campus Libraries Department of Rare Books, Special Collections, and Preservation) at Rush Rhees Library. Explore the Fenno Papers To explore Dick Fenno's writings and research materials, visit the Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Papers, maintained by the University's Department of Rare Books, Special Collections, and Preservation. Share Your Thoughts Send your tributes, condolences, or memories of Dick Fenno via email. Tell us your name, affiliation with the University, and public message, which will appear on the messages and condolences page. Make a Gift Students, colleagues, and friends who would like to give in Dick Fenno's memory can contribute to the Richard and Nancy Fenno Summer Fellowships using a secure online form.


--- [Biography - Richard F. Fenno Jr.] ---
Richard F. Fenno Jr. served as Distinguished University Professor Emeritus in the Department of Political Science at the University of Rochester until his death on April 21, 2020. To read the University’s obituary, view tributes from his students and colleagues, share your own memories of Professor Fenno, or make a gift to support the Richard and Nancy Fenno Summer Fellowships, please visit the University of Rochester Department of Political Science memorial page. Richard F. Fenno Jr. was born on December 12, 1926 in Winchester, Massachusetts. After serving in the Navy during World War II, Fenno attended Amherst College, and in 1948 received his Bachelor’s degree. That same year he married Nancy Davidson. The couple had two children, Mark and Craig. Fenno pursued a PhD in Political Science from Harvard University and completed his degree in 1956. Two years before joining the University of Rochester’s Political Science Department, he taught at Wheaton College and Amherst College. Fenno joined the University of Rochester’s Political Science Department in 1957. In 1959, Fenno’s PhD dissertation The President’s Cabinet was published by Harvard University Press. In 1968, the Political Science Department’s Washington Semester Program was created under Fenno’s leadership. Fenno served from 1970-1978 as the Don Alonzo Watson Professor of History and Political Science. In 1978, he was named the William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester. In 1985, Fenno was named “Distinguished University Professor.” In honor of Fenno’s service to the University, in 2005, the Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Seminar Room was dedicated in Harkness Hall. In 2007, Fenno celebrated his fiftieth year teaching at the University of Rochester. During his professional career, Fenno served on several national committees and received numerous awards and honors. Between 1975 and 1980, Fenno served as Chairman, Selection Committee and Advisory Committee, American Political Science Association Congressional Fellowship Program. In 1974, he was named a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1976, Fenno was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. Fenno received two awards for his book, Home Style. In 1979, he won the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the following year the D.B. Hardeman Prize, from the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library. Fenno was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983. From 1984-1985 Fenno served as President of the American Political Science Association. In 1986, the American Political Science Association’s Legislature Studies Section established the Richard F. Fenno Prize for best book on legislative studies. In 1989, he was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society. In 1994, Lewis and Nancy Kaplan established the Richard F. Fenno Fund to purchase material related to political science for the University of Rochester Libraries. In 2001, Fenno’s book, Congress at the Grassroots: Representational Change in the South, 1970-1998 won the V. O. Key Award for best book on southern politics. In 2014, Fenno and his wife Nancy established The Richard and Nancy Fenno Summer Fellowships Program at the University of Rochester.


--- [Richard F. Fenno | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
Richard F. Fenno Richard F. Fenno Jr. currently serves as Distinguished University Professor Emeritus in the Department of Political Science at the University of Rochester. Two years before joining the University of Rochester's Political Science Department, he taught at Wheaton College and Amherst College. Fenno joined the University of Rochester’s Political Science Department in 1957. In 1959, Fenno’s PhD dissertation The President's Cabinet was published by Harvard University Press. In 1968, the Political Science Department’s Washington Semester Program was created under Fenno’s leadership. Fenno served from 1970-1978 as the Don Alonzo Watson Professor of History and Political Science. In 1978, he was named the William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester. In 1985, Fenno was named “Distinguished University Professor.” In honor of Fenno’s service to the University, in 2005, the Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Seminar Room was dedicated in Harkness Hall. In 2007, Fenno celebrated his fiftieth year teaching at the University of Rochester. Fenno received two awards for his book, Home Style. In 1979, he won the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the following year the D.B. Hardeman Prize, from the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library. Fenno was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983. From 1984 – 1985 Fenno served as President of the American Political Science Association. In 1986, the American Political Science Association’s Legislature Studies Section established the Richard F. Fenno Prize for best book on legislative studies. In 1989, he was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society.
