=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Henri d'Angoulême - Wikipedia]
Being the most highly favored natural son of the King, he was legitimized and made Duke of Angoulême. Henri would later serve as Abbot of La Chaise-Dieu, Grand Prior of France [2] of the Sovereign Order of Malta [3] and Admiral of the Levantine Sea, further ruling as Governor of Provence from 1579 until his death in 1586.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_d%27Angoul%C3%AAme

[Henri d'Angoulême | Military Wiki | Fandom]
While serving as Governor of Provence, his secretary was the poet François de Malherbe. [4] Henri wrote many sonnets, one of which was set to music by Fabrice Caietain. [2] In 1586, Henri was killed at Aix-en-Provence in a duel with Philip Altoviti, who also was mortally wounded in the fight. [5] Ancestry References ↑ Sealy 1981, p. 206.
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Henri_d%27Angoul%C3%AAme

[Henri d'Angoulême (1547 - 1586) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Aug 31, 2025 · While serving as Governor of Provence, his secretary was the poet François de Malherbe. [4] Henri wrote many sonnets, one of which was set to music by Fabrice Caietain.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Henri-d-Angoul%C3%AAme-Baron-de-Fontette/6000000000905010305

[François de Malherbe Facts for Kids]
When he was about 21, Malherbe decided to work for Henri d'Angoulême, who was the governor of Provence. He served as a secretary and got married in Provence in 1581. During this time, he started writing poems. After his patron, Henri d'Angoulême, passed away, Malherbe didn't have a steady job for a while.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Fran%C3%A7ois_de_Malherbe

[François de Malherbe | History | Research Starters]
His protector, Henri d'Angoulême, an illegitimate son of King Henry II, was appointed royal governor of Provence in 1577, where Malherbe followed him as his ...
URL: https://www.ebsco.com/research-starters/history/francois-de-malherbe


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Henri d'Angoulême - Wikipedia] ---
Henri de Valois, duc d'Angoulême (1551 – 2 June 1586, in Aix-en-Provence), sometimes called "Henri, bâtard de Valois" or "Henri de France", was a Légitimé de France, cleric, and military commander during the Wars of Religion.


--- [Henri d'Angoulême | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Henri | | |---|---| | Portrait engraving of Henri d'Angoulême | | | Duke of Angoulême | | | Personal details | | | Born | 1551 Aix-la-Chapelle, Rhineland, Holy Roman Empire | | Died | June 2, 1586 Aix-en-Provence, France | (aged 34-35) | Religion | Roman Catholicism | Henri de Valois, duc d'Angoulême (1551 in Aix-la-Chapelle – 2 June 1586 in Aix-en-Provence), sometimes called "Henri, bâtard de Valois" or "Henri de France", was a Légitimé de France, cleric, and military commander during the Wars of Religion. Biography Henri de Valois was born the bastard son of Henri II of France and his mistress Janet Stewart, who was herself the illegitimate daughter of James IV of Scotland and served as governess to the young Mary, Queen of Scots.[1] Being the most highly favored natural son of the King, Henri was legitimized and made Duke of Angoulême. He would later serve as Abbot of La Chaise-Dieu, Grand Prior of France[2] and Admiral of the Levantine Sea, further ruling as Governor of Provence from 1579 until his death in 1586. In 1570, the supporters of Mary, Queen of Scots, who was exiled in England, selected Henri as a potential leader of a French military force to aid them in their civil war against the King's Men who supported James VI of Scotland. The Queen's Men thought that Henri's Scottish and French royal ancestry would gain him respect in Scotland and England. Although the Queen's men put the idea to John Lesley, Queen Mary's ambassador in France, French soldiers and Henri were not sent to Scotland.[3] Henri d'Angoulême took a major role in the two extended military battle against Huguenot strongholds during the height of the French Wars of Religion, engaging in the massive Siege of La Rochelle (1572–1573), organized by the Duke of Anjou, future Henry III of France, and leading the five-year Siege of Ménerbes (1573–1578), fought at a citadel in the Luberon foothills cherished by Pope Pius V. While serving as Governor of Provence, his secretary was the poet François de Malherbe.[4] Henri wrote many sonnets, one of which was set to music by Fabrice Caietain.[2] In 1586, Henri was killed at Aix-en-Provence in a duel with Philip Altoviti, who also was mortally wounded in the fight.[5] Ancestry References - ↑ Sealy 1981, p. 206. - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Brooks 2000, p. 124. - ↑ Cameron 1931, p. 85-86. - ↑ Joseph & Green 2004, p. 112. - ↑ Kelly 1913, p. 569. Sources - Brooks, Jeanice (2000). Courtly song in late sixteenth-century France. The University of Chicago Press. - Cameron, Annie, ed (1931). Warrender Papers. vol.1. T. and A. Constable Ltd.. - Joseph, George; Green, Maria (2004). Rubin, David Lee. ed (in French). La Poésie Française du Premier 17e siècle: Textes et Contextes: "François Malherbe". Rookwood Press, Inc.. - Kelly, Blanche M. (1913). "Francois Malherbe". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 9. The Encyclopedia Press, Inc.. - Sealy, Robert J. (1981). The Palace Academy of Henry III. Droz. | This page uses Creative Commons Licensed content from Wikipedia (view authors). |


--- [Henri d'Angoulême (1547 - 1586) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Immediate Family - mother - stepfather - half sister - half sister - half sister - half brother - half sister - half brother - half sister - half sister - father's partner About Henri d'Angoulême, Baron de Fontette https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_d%27Angoul%C3%AAme Biography Henri de Valois was born the bastard son of Henri II of France and his mistress Janet Stewart, who was an illegitimate daughter of James IV of Scotland and served as governess to the young Mary, Queen of Scots.[1] Being the most highly favored natural son of the King, Henri was legitimized and made Duke of Angoulême. He would later serve as Abbot of La Chaise-Dieu, Grand Prior of France[2] and Admiral of the Levantine Sea, further ruling as Governor of Provence from 1579 until his death in 1586. In 1570, the supporters of Mary, Queen of Scots, who was exiled in England, selected Henri as a potential leader of a French military force to aid them in their civil war against the supporters James VI of Scotland. They thought that Henri's Scottish and French royal ancestry would gain him respect in Scotland and England. Although the Queen's supporters put the idea to John Lesley, Queen Mary's ambassador in France, French soldiers and Henri were not sent to Scotland.[3] Tapestry detailing the Siege of La Rochelle (1572-1573) Henri d'Angoulême took a major role in the two extended military battle against Huguenot strongholds during the height of the French Wars of Religion, engaging in the massive Siege of La Rochelle (1572–1573), organized by the Duke of Anjou, future Henry III of France, and leading the five-year Siege of Ménerbes (1573–1578), fought at a citadel in the Luberon foothills cherished by Pope Pius V. While serving as Governor of Provence, his secretary was the poet François de Malherbe.[4] Henri wrote many sonnets, one of which was set to music by Fabrice Caietain.[2] In 1586, Henri was killed at Aix-en-Provence in a duel with Philip Altoviti, who also was mortally wounded in the fight.[5] Ancestry Ancestors of Henri d'Angoulême References Sealy 1981, p. 206. Brooks 2000, p. 124. Cameron 1931, p. 85-86. Joseph & Green 2004, p. 112. Kelly 1913, p. 569. Sources Brooks, Jeanice (2000). Courtly song in late sixteenth-century France. The University of Chicago Press. Cameron, Annie, ed. (1931). Warrender Papers. vol.1. T. and A. Constable Ltd. Joseph, George; Green, Maria (2004). Rubin, David Lee (ed.). La Poésie Française du Premier 17e siècle: Textes et Contextes: "François Malherbe" (in French). Rookwood Press, Inc. Kelly, Blanche M. (1913). "Francois Malherbe". In Herbermann, Charles George; Pace, Edward Aloysius (eds.). The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 9. The Encyclopedia Press, Inc. Sealy, Robert J. (1981). The Palace Academy of Henry III. Droz. https://academic.oup.com/fh/article-abstract/33/3/471/5601946 https://gw.geneanet.org/comrade28?lang=en&n=angouleme&oc=0&p=cheval... https://portail-biblissima-fr.translate.goog/fr/ark:/43093/pdataa9c... https://www.erudit.org/en/journals/renref/2019-v42-n2-renref04916/1... https://www-debaecque-fr.translate.goog/lot/12067/2468036?npp=50&&_... Henri d'Angoulême, Baron de Fontette's Timeline | 1547 | April 1547 | Aachen, Free City of Aachen, Heiliges Römisches Reich Deutscher Nation | | | 1586 | June 2, 1586 Age 39 | Aix-en-Provence, Provence, France | | | ???? | Paris, Paris, Île-de-France, France |


--- [François de Malherbe Facts for Kids] ---
François de Malherbe facts for kids François de Malherbe (born in 1555 – died October 16, 1628) was a French poet, critic, and translator. He is famous for helping to shape the rules of French poetry that became known as "Classicism." This style focused on clear language and strict forms, influencing French literature for nearly 200 years. Contents A Poet's Journey: Malherbe's Life François de Malherbe was born in a town called Le Locheur, near Caen in Normandy, France. His family was well-respected. His father was an important legal advisor to the king. François received a good education in several cities, including Caen, Paris, Heidelberg, and Basel. When he was about 21, Malherbe decided to work for Henri d'Angoulême, who was the governor of Provence. He served as a secretary and got married in Provence in 1581. During this time, he started writing poems. After his patron, Henri d'Angoulême, passed away, Malherbe didn't have a steady job for a while. However, he managed to get a good amount of money from King Henry III. He spent many years living in Provence and Normandy. In 1587, he published a poem called Larmes de Saint Pierre. Malherbe at Court In 1600, Malherbe wrote a special poem to welcome Maria de' Medici, who would become the Queen of France. This was one of his first important poems. A few years later, his luck changed. He was introduced to King Henry IV. Even though the king wasn't very quick to hire poets, Malherbe was eventually called to the royal court and given support. It's said that he didn't receive his promised payment until the next king's rule. When his father died in 1606, Malherbe inherited his family's property. From then on, Malherbe lived at the royal court. He wrote loving letters to his wife but only saw her twice in about 20 years. Later in his life, Malherbe faced a very sad event. His son, Marc Antoine, passed away. Malherbe worked very hard to get justice for his son. Sadly, Malherbe passed away in Paris on October 16, 1628, at the age of 73, before the legal case was finished. Today, a football team from Caen, France, is named after him: Stade Malherbe de Caen. Malherbe's Impact on Literature Malherbe had a big and lasting effect on French literature. He helped develop the "Classical" rules for poetry that would be followed for almost two centuries. He believed in making poetry more perfect, simpler, and purer in its words and rhythm. This was a way to make French poetry clearer and more organized. Malherbe's own personality was known to be quite strong. He was sometimes critical, but his ideas helped shape the kind of poetry needed for classical plays. His own poems are not very many, and some people find them a bit cold or lacking strong emotion. However, some of his works are well-remembered, like the beautiful Consolation a Duperier, which includes the famous line: Et, rose, elle a vécu ce que vivent les roses (meaning, "And, a rose, it lived as long as roses live"). He also wrote important poems for Maria de' Medici and King Louis XIII. Prose and Influence Malherbe wrote a lot of prose (regular writing, not poetry), which was also very carefully styled. He translated works by famous Roman writers like Livy and Seneca. He also wrote many interesting letters, especially to a scientist named Peiresc. Malherbe also wrote a detailed commentary on another poet, Philippe Desportes, showing his very precise way of looking at words and style. Two of Malherbe's most important students were François Maynard and Racan. Another writer, Claude Favre de Vaugelas, also helped to make French language clearer and more refined around the same time. See also In Spanish: François de Malherbe para niños


--- [François de Malherbe | History | Research Starters] ---
François de Malherbe François de Malherbe (1555-1628) was a prominent French poet and critic whose early life was rooted in Normandy, where he was educated in both Catholic and Protestant circles. Initially influenced by baroque styles, he eventually sought to establish a clearer, more disciplined approach to poetry, which he articulated through his teachings at court after gaining the patronage of King Henry IV in 1605. Malherbe's literary doctrine emphasized the purification of the French language, advocating for clarity, expressiveness, and adherence to logical structure while discouraging the use of ornate metaphors and complex stylistic devices. His critical views were particularly aimed at the baroque poet Philippe Desportes, whom he sought to discredit, positioning himself as a leading voice against the prevalent poetic trends of his time. Despite his personal struggles, including financial difficulties and familial tragedies, Malherbe's impact on the neoclassicist movement was significant, influencing the literary landscape of 17th-century France. His rules for poetry became widely accepted and shaped the standards of French literature for generations, even as his own works fell into relative obscurity. Malherbe's legacy highlights a complex interplay between rigorous artistic standards and the tumultuous personal experiences that characterized his life and career. François de Malherbe French poet - Born: 1555 - Birthplace: Caen, France - Died: October 16, 1628 - Place of death: Paris, France Malherbe’s neoclassicist literary principles had a decisive impact on seventeenth century literature in France and on the development of an elegant and codified version of the French language. His doctrine on poetic composition argued for form, order, purity, simplicity, clarity, and restraint and against the baroque and mannerist tendencies of his time, establishing a standard for French classical literature. Early Life François de Malherbe (frahn-swah deh mah-lehrb) was born in 1555 in the region of Normandy. His father was a nobleman, municipal councilman in Caen, and had Protestant leanings. Malherbe was educated mostly in Caen, except for a year spent in Paris and stays at the universities of Basle and Heidelberg (1571-1573). He quickly was introduced to Caen’s Reformed circles, especially during his time in boarding school, before his prolonged stay abroad. Upon his return to Caen, however, he preferred the city’s Catholic circles, above all a group that included the eminent literary figures Jean Vauquelin de La Fresnaye and Guy Le Fèvre de La Boderie. Malherbe’s first poems date from that period (1575) but were not published until 1872. After this introduction to literary and intellectual life, Malherbe decided to leave his parents’ home in 1576 to try to establish himself in Paris. The next thirty years were marked by his struggles to gain the royal recognition that he thought he deserved, struggles that were exacerbated by constant personal and financial problems. His protector, Henri d’Angoulême, an illegitimate son of King Henry II, was appointed royal governor of Provence in 1577, where Malherbe followed him as his secretary and became a member of the court society of Aix-en-Provence. His marriage to Madeleine de Coriolis (1581) would result in four children, who all died young. D’Angoulême was killed in 1586 in a duel, which left Malherbe without a protector. He soon returned to Caen and tried to regain Henry III’s favor by presenting him with his first published poem, Les Larmes de Saint Pierre (1587; the tears of Saint Peter), whose baroque style is in stark contradiction to his later teachings. In 1590, he composed his best-known poem, Consolation à Monsieur du Périer sur la mort de sa fille (pb. c. 1600; consolation to Mr. du Périer on the death of his daughter). In 1594, Malherbe was elected municipal magistrate of Caen, but he decided nonetheless to return to Aix in 1595, where he stayed until 1605 (in 1598-1599, he was in Caen). Near the end of the century, his poetry had gained some public recognition: His writings were included in a number of collections published between 1597 and 1603. Malherbe’s reputation as a teacher was also increasing. Playwright and economist Antoine de Montchrestien sought his advice for his tragedy Sophonisbe, whose numerous corrections between 1596 and 1601 illustrate Malherbe’s fledgling doctrine. Life’s Work A turning point in Malherbe’s life came in 1605. After being recommended to King Henry IV, he left Aix in the company of the eminent moralist Guillaume du Vair, president of the parlement of Provence, and Nicolas-Claude Fabri de Peiresc , one of the era’s foremost scholars. Henry IV finally awarded Malherbe the coveted royal appointment, and he held the position of court poet until his death. Very quickly, Malherbe tried to strengthen his position by discrediting his rival, poet Philippe Desportes, a favorite of King Henry III and his court poet. Malherbe believed that Desportes’s “disorderly” baroque poetry was a symbol of an obsolete aesthetics. He annotated a copy of Desportes’s poetry with very severe criticism in Commentaire sur Desportes (wr. 1605-1606), a project that was not published until the nineteenth century because the critic abandoned it after his rival’s death in 1606. Because Malherbe never published a formal treatise laying out his famous doctrine, this text remains its most complete illustration. As Malherbe became increasingly interested in prose, he would refer to his translation of Livy’s twenty-third book as a model for writing in French. Moreover, Vair’s 1594 treatise De l’Éloquence française contains the nucleus of Malherbe’s formal and linguistic demands, which also shows that Malherbe cannot be considered the inventor of a revolutionary set of new rules but rather the most adamant advocate and teacher of guidelines that corresponded to the changing literary tastes of an era still recovering from the turmoil of the French Wars of Religion (1562-1598). Even Desportes had adopted a more sober style of writing toward the end of his life. Three things set Malherbe apart from his contemporaries: his influential position at court, his sternness, and his pedagogical activities. In Paris, he intensified his mentoring efforts and held nightly meetings in his apartment, where he counseled his disciples on matters of style, versification, and grammar. His most devoted admirers include poet François Maynard, who was Marguerite de Valois’s secretary and one of the founding members of the Académie Française (1635), as well as poet Honorat du Bueil, seigneur de Racan. Another follower, Pierre de Deimier, published Académie de l’art poétique (1610), which contained the bulk of Malherbe’s doctrine. In essence, Malherbe’s doctrine was a reaction against the predominant poetic currents of the second half of the sixteenth century, marked by the poetry of La Pléiade and by baroque and mannerist tendencies in literature. His theory amounted to the purification and simplification of the French language, whose submission to logic and reason would constitute, in his opinion, a major step toward the restoration of order in a country tormented by decades of civil strife. Malherbe’s doctrine prescribed the outright suppression of archaisms, regional expressions, neologisms, involuntary repetitions, and other stylistic devices such as hiatus, inversion, and enjambment. The use of metaphors and images was to be restricted, and the rules of etiquette (les bienséances) were to be respected. The exclusive use of simple rhyme schemes and basic vocabulary completed a project whose overarching objective was clarity, expressiveness, and visual and aural beauty. Governed by such principles, poetry would be accessible to everyone. As laudable as this process of democratization of poetry seemed, however, it constituted—by its neglect of the genre’s lyrical qualities—in many ways a return to the late medieval concept of poetry as an “art of second rhetoric,” utilitarian writing meant to expose and logically develop ideas, a discourse in verse form, so to speak. This strict set of rules stood in stark contrast to Malherbe’s personal life: He was nicknamed Father Lust, mostly because of his turbulent love life and the circulation of a number of his obscene poems. Moreover, many admirers of La Pléiade poets, admirers such as, above all, Mathurin Régnier, Desportes’s nephew, continued to criticize Malherbe’s poetry for its lack of inspiration. The regency (1610-1614) marked Malherbe’s most influential time at court. Marie de Médicis liked his work, and the poet kept flattering her in his official poetry, which resulted in several monetary awards and a raise of his pension. He frequently complained about difficulties collecting his pay, however, which contributed, along with several trials, to his continuing financial difficulties. Such preoccupations might explain his diminished poetic production during the remainder of his career. He returned to religious poetry, celebrated official court events, and resumed his translation projects. His poetry was published mostly in collections, which attested to his unbroken popularity, the most important works being the two-volume Délices de la poésie française (1615, 1620), the Dernier recueil (1621), and the Recueil des plus beaux vers (1627). The end of Malherbe’s life was marked by the problems of his son Marc-Antoine, who had killed a man in a duel in Aix in 1624 and then sought refuge in Normandy. After two years of lobbying, Malherbe obtained an official pardon, but his son was killed the following year (in 1627). Despite his influence at court and a trip to La Rochelle to implore King Louis XIII (he was still appreciated by the king and by Cardinal de Richelieu), Malherbe was unable to obtain the issuance of the death sentence against his son’s murderers. Upon his return to Paris, Malherbe became ill and died on October 6, 1628. Significance Malherbe’s influence on neoclassicist poetry was tremendous, even though Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux’s hyperbolic praise of Malherbe’s impact was integral in ensuring this prominent position. Malherbe’s rules were generally accepted in a seventeenth century that is still widely considered the peak of France’s literary production, especially in the dramatic genre. Malherbe’s doctrine also led to a neglect of Renaissance poetry for about two hundred years, until its “rediscovery” by the Romantics. Even though his poetry had been largely forgotten, contradicting thus his confident self-assessment that whatever he wrote would be eternal, Malherbe’s doctrine has proven to be pivotal for the development of French language and letters. Many of its principles remain indispensable for “good” writing. Bibliography Abraham, Claude K. Enfin Malherbe: The Influence of Malherbe on French Lyric Prosody, 1606-1674. Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1971. This is still the most solid book-length study of Malherbe’s life and work in the English language. The author strives to avoid the usual polemical discussion between unconditional admirers and opponents to determine Malherbe’s actual influence on French letters. Randall, Catherine. “Possessed Personae in Early Modern France: Du Bellay, d’Aubigné, and Malherbe.” In Seventeenth Century and Beyond, Vol. 2 in Signs of the Early Modern, edited by David Lee Rubin. Charlottesville, Va.: Rockwood Press, 1997. A refreshing look, from the equally refreshing perspective of the “possessed persona,” at Malherbe’s work as the endpoint of a literary development rather than its starting point. Sweetser, Marie-Odile. “The Art of Praise from Malherbe to La Fontaine.” In The Shape of Change, edited by Anne Birberick and Russell Ganim. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2002. This book takes up a topic that was predominant in the late medieval grands rhétoriqueurs (great rhetoricians) tradition and examines its seventeenth century development. Winegarten, Renée. French Lyric Poetry in the Age of Malherbe. Manchester, England: Manchester University Press, 1954. This thoughtful study examines Malherbe and his work as integral to seventeenth century, French lyric poetry.
