=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[emmahamilton00sich_djvu.txt]
... speciality in 1780 (and throughout his career) was the then derided but now accepted electricity^ and mud-baths. By their means he claimed to restore and ...
URL: https://archive.org/download/emmahamilton00sich/emmahamilton00sich_djvu.txt


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [emmahamilton00sich_djvu.txt] ---
EMMA- LADY- HAMILTON k WALTER: SICHEL 3s:l: Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2008 with funding from IVIicrosoft Corporation http://www.archive.org/details/emmahamiltonOOsich EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ' It takes a hundred and fifty years to make a beauty — a hundred and fifty years out of doors. . . . Without these constant factors, beauty cannot be, but yet they will not alone produce it. There must be something in the blood which these influences gradually ripen. . . . Erratic, meteor-like beauty ! For how many thousand years has man been your slave ! The sentiment at the sight of a perfect beauty is as much amazement as admiration. It so draws the heart out of itself as to seem like magic' Richard Jefferies. ' I cannot make friends with all, but the few friends I have, I would die for them. ' Lady Hamilton to Lord Nelson, Oct. 1798. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 84. EMMA LADY HAMILTON FROM NEW AND ORIGINAL SOURCES AND DOCUMENTS TOGETHER WITH AN Appendix of Notes and New Letters BY WALTER SICHEL AUTHOR OF 'BOLINGBROKE AND HIS TIMES' 'DISRAELI, A STUDY* I SECOND EDITION Bondon ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND COMPANY LTD. 1905 First Printed, October 1905. Second Impression, October 1905. Third Impression, November 1905. Fourth Printing (Second and Revised Edition), November 1905, Edinbirgh : T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF C.VLIFORNIA SANTA BARBARA TO C. E. S. AND G. H. T Fi done ! Tu as I'ivresse du peuple.— — C'est la bonne, c'est celle du plaisir. Beaumarchais. Ah, Emma, who'd ever be wise If madness were loving of thee ! Lord Bristol, Bishop of Derry. PREFACE In attempting this theme, I found that to do it real justice, both from the personal and historical point of view, I must perforce and in great measure begin afresh. Many new manuscripts of the highest importance have passed into the national collection during about the last twenty years. And apart from these, much new and weighty evidence exists. Much casts new lights both on the character of Lady Hamilton, the whole story of her life, and the history of Naples. Much has remained unknown or unnoticed both in contemporary manuscripts and con- temporary books, research into which is needful if a living picture is to be formed ; for by such means alone we are enabled to view things from the inside, to get, as it were, behind the scenes, and close up to the persons. Two at least among many manuscript collections in the British Museum are new in their revelations, and have escaped attention. The first is the correspondence of Lady Hamilton with Nelson in the autumn of the year 1798, after the Nile victory (Add. MS. 34,989). Not only does this shed immense light on her character, on the part that she played with the Queen of Naples, and on the ripening of her Nelson-worship, but I was fortunate enough to discover in it a letter of June 17 (reproduced in this volume) to which Nelson's famous and much-debated ' I have kissed the Queen's letter' is, without question, the immediate answer. This conclusively upsets some of the ingenious theories put forward by modern sceptics in criticising Lady viii EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamilton's claim to have procured what enabled Nelson to water and provision the British fleet. Both in this respect, however, and in others regarding Lady Hamilton's several ' services,' I had from other documents arrived at independent conclusions. This collection further comprises many most material letters of later dates, and among them a series written by Lady Hamilton to Mrs. William Nelson during 1801, relative to the hitherto undescribed 'Prince of Wales' episode which figures in these pages, and bearing also both on Nelson's hurried visit to London before he started for the Baltic, and the life led by him and the Hamiltons on their first installation at Merton. These and the correspondence of 1798 are of such novel interest, that they are both transcribed, with a number of other new and enlightening letters, in the Appendix, which also contains the longer and the controversial notes, so as not to over-encumber the narrative. The whole series was not acquired by the British Museum until 1896, and therefore neither Mr. J. Cordy Jeaffreson nor Professor Laughton could have used it. The second, however, was purchased in 1886, but possibly it may not have been available in 1887 and 1889. Had it been so, it would certainly have modified their views. It is the long and remarkable series of Sir John Acton's correspondence with Sir William Hamilton (Egerton MS. 2639-2640), penned in the quaintest English, illuminat- ing events and characters, and indispensable to a right understanding of the persons and the period. With these should be studied further letters of the same Neapolitan Minister, which are to be found both in the Hamilton correspondence (Egerton MS. 2634-2641) and in a mis- cellaneous collection (Egerton MS. 1623), which to many documents of human interest adds letters both from Acton and from the Queen of Naples. There is besides, much regarding Lady Hamilton herself to be gleaned from the PREFACE ix correspondence of Sir J. Banks with Sir W. Hamilton (Eger- ton MS. 2641); and something — especially as to Romney and Lady Hamilton — in a manuscript collection of Hayley's correspondence (Add. MS. 30,805). Moreover, there are isolated letters of interest and value, such as that from Sir William Hamilton to Greville about Emma (Add. MS. 34,710 D) which ranks with those in the Morrison Auto- graphs ; and another of Nelson to Emma, also hitherto unquoted, but perhaps the most striking of any that he ever addressed to her, from a collection, too, of the highest value otherwise (Add. MS. 34,274). There are also various other manuscript sources which I need not here specify. There are, of course, the Nelson Papers, much used, on which these and kindred sources shed fresh and considerable light ; and there exist still further and most valuable collec- tions which have hitherto been either unconsulted or insuffi- ciently examined. Such is the correspondence of Nelson's brother and successor (Add. MS. 34,992), which contains, with much else concerning his conduct after Nelson's death, a material document which will be found in the Appendix. Then there is the correspondence of Nelson's confidential friend Alexander Davison (Egerton MS. 2240), a minute inspection of which adds to our knowledge of the lives and characters of Lady Hamilton, her husband, and Nelson. Nor would it seem that the Hamilton Papers above men- tioned have themselves been fully scrutinised in all their historical bearings, since the erasures and interlineations in one at least of Sir William's official drafts perhaps assist the main evidence of what seems to have happened privately. The manuscript letters of Maria Carolina, Queen of Naples, in more than one series in the British Museum, have many of them been quoted both by English and foreign writers ; but her crabbed handwriting has some- times caused material mistranscriptions. Nothing more touching can be imagined than these reliquaries, so to X EMMA, LADY HAMILTON speak, of past emotion, with their inclosures of sad mementoes and Emma's own indorsements on their covers. The royal flight from Naples to Palermo in December 1798 played a great part in her career, as she herself played an even greater part in its thrilling scenes. From the Queen's letters of this date (Egerton MS. 161 5 and 1623) combined with others from the Vienna Archives (in Baron Helfert's Life of Fabrizio Ruffo), the Acton letters, and those in the Morrison Autographs, I have tried to reconstruct this melodrama as if it were a sensation of yesterday. I have further been able to secure originals and copies of many unknown and striking letters touching Lady Hamilton's actions and circumstances throughout her career. Nor should I omit the great assistance afforded by the pub- lished excerpts from many autographs in Messrs. Sotheby's Catalogues of Sale. Placed in their proper context, these enable one to understand much which without them would remain obscure ; and the Appendix includes a number of these also, I am under the deepest obligation to Mrs. Alfred Morrison for her kindness in lending me a printed but unpublished copy of the autograph Hamilton and Nelson Papers. These letters, invaluable alike to psychologist and historian, are only of complete use when they can be consulted in their entirety, and in their full relations both to themselves and to companion letters. Had Mr. Jeaffreson closely studied them he would have come to different conclusions on many subjects — the mysterious Emma ' Carew,' for instance, among minor matters, and the affectionate intimacy of Nelson's sisters, sister-in-law, and their children with Lady Hamilton, consistently main- tained up to the very end.^ Perhaps he may have been 1 I now hasten to add in the case of so able and accurate an investigator as Mr. Jeaffreson that my meaning in this passage refers exclusively to the duration of the friendship, — in the Eoltons' case extending to January 1812, and in the Matchams' case to November 1813. PREFACE xi unable to do so, because when he wrote they may not yet have been privately printed or fully catalogued. Like considerations touch the relevance of all these sources to history, to controversial criticism, and to Captain Mahan's characterisation, so far as his delightful book affects Lady Hamilton. That book explains Nelson's tactics far more than it penetrates the hidden springs of motive and temperament, based as it is mainly on published and acknowledged records. It hardly fathoms the secret of two hearts. Some critics, in trying to dispute the date or authenticity of material letters, have urged the unlikelihood of Nelson and Sir William Hamilton addressing each other during 1798 as * my dear Nelson,' or 'my dear Hamilton,' but the Morrison Manuscripts of this date comprise three in which Hamilton does so address Nelson ; and in less trivial examples also, the distinction between the wording of private and official correspondence has often been over- looked. Again, a state-document most relevant to the events of July 1798 (* The Governor of Syracuse's despatch ') is explained by a letter from Sir John Acton in this series ; while many other papers outside it supply a key to the diplomatic situation which underlies and interprets most of the Neapolitan communications during this period. It has also been objected that Nelson could not, in June 1798, have referred (as he does) to the 'sufferings' of the royal family. Acton's manuscripts of this date, however, many of the Queen's letters, a notable draft by Hamilton (Egerton MS. 2635, f. 287), and a mass of other, private and official, correspondence, unite in establishing the fitness of the phrase. These and kindred mistakes are mere links in a chain of evidence ; but, broadly speaking, all Lady Hamilton's claims will be found to receive fresh and important corrobora- tion. Some of the statements in her several ' Memorials ' xii EMMA, LADY HAMILTON have been misconstrued, while most have been traversed. Their verification, however, in these pages by new evidence is some argument for the substantial truth of the rest. It has been assumed, for instance, that her mention of the * secret passage ' in her narrative of the royal family's melodramatic flight to Palermo is a myth. From one of Acton's letters, however, and one of the Queen's, this way of escape seems a pretty fair deduction. Lady Hamilton, again, pleaded inher 'Prince Regent Memorial' of 1813 thather late husband on his deathbed had urged his nephew to press the Government for some recognition of her services. Greville's own letter, transcribed in the Appendix, not only confirms her statement, but protests that the truth of her 'Claims' was within the knowledge of the Foreign Office, It has been taken for granted that the reason for disregarding them was official disbelief The real causes were very different and scarcely creditable to the ministers. Nor has it been borne in mind that Sir William Hamilton's own claims were equally ignored. A lack of thorough investigation, moreover, or of available materials, has often caused misinterpretation. Several new episodes have been here unearthed which a preface cannot detail. It may sur- prise many to learn that owing to difficulties raised over Nelson's bequest of an annuity to the woman of his heart its payment was deferred, and never made in advance till the year before her death. I venture also to hope that Nelson's own character and achievements stand more fully revealed by the fresh lights and sidelights which serve to bring his extraordinary individuality into relief, to explain his policy, and to clear up some vexed passages both in his private and his public actions. As England absorbed him, so did Emma. With regard to books, I may say that I have endeav- oured to study every contemporary work that can possibly illustrate the life of Lady Hamilton or the imbroglios of PREFACE xiii history in which she became involved: no odd corner, whether in print or manuscript, has been left unsearched ; nor have I omitted those clues regarding either her or any of her friends (however slight their parts in the drama) that even parish registers afford. The apocryphal Memoirs of 1815, frequently repeated, aver that she signed her marriage register under a false name. The Marylebone parish books show that this was not the case ; and it will be found, moreover, that previous conjectures as to the date of her birth have been inaccurate. It may be added that most of the striking material for Emma's life in the Nelso7i Letters'^ (surreptitiously published in 1814) has passed unnoticed. These two volumes include one of her few surviving letters to Nelson, some of Sir William's private epistles to her in 1792, as well as two of her letters to Greville, some from him and Lord Bristol, and of course a long series of private letters from Nelson himself. In striving to understand the inner workings of the Neapolitan Revolution of 1799, I have gone straight to many of the Italian sources ; and here I may express my obligation to Mr. Gutteridge's most scholarly monograph on Nelson and the Neapolitan Jacobins, published last year for the Navy Record Society, which summarises almost every available authority, and with the conclusions of which I cordially agree. I can only trust that my mite of research may not be wholly useless in the exploration of this comparatively forgotten but most interesting back-water of history. Without further enlargement, then, the foregoing con- siderations must furnish an excuse, if excuse be needed, for endeavouring to grapple with the subject, and a justifi- cation for thinking that Lady Hamilton's history needs to ' Their full title is, ' The Letters of Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton, with a Supplement of Interesting Letters by Distinguished Characters. London. For Thomas Lovewell & Co., Staines House, Barbican.' xiv EMMA, LADY HAMILTON be rewritten with all the new lights and authentic records that time has added, and that the survey, if condensed, should aim at being comprehensive. It is a career of widespread interest and unusual fascina- tion— a ' human document ' of many problems that well repay the decipherer and the discoverer. My aim through- out has been to quicken research into life, and to furnish a new study of her striking temperament and the temperaments which became so curiously interwoven both with each other and with history. I have sought, however imperfectly, to render investigation vivid rather than to register statistics about Lady Hamilton. I have tried to stage anew, and with fresh scenes, a drama surprising both in plot and character, and to picture the peculiar psychology of the Tria juncta in uno, as well as their psychological moments. In conclusion, my repeated thanks are due to Mrs. Alfred Morrison for so kindly allowing me to have copies of the two volumes of the catalogued manuscripts printed for private circulation ; to my friend Mrs. Hampden of Ewelme for copies of most interesting manuscript letters, some wholly unpublished, others partially. My acknow- ledgments are also due, among others, to Mr. Sabin and Mr. Robson for allowing me to have copies of the letters in their possession ; to Messrs. Sotheran for permitting me to inspect a very curious collection of cuttings, autographs, and portraits ; to the Reverend Canon H. Drew, the Reverend Canon E. C. Turner, the Rector of Marylebone, and the Reverend C. Jagger of Merton, for their kind compliance with my request for information on many points from the parish registers of Hawarden, Neston, Marylebone, and Merton ; to Miss Andalusia Harvey for being so good as to acquaint me with the basis for her family traditions regarding Ickwell Bury and Lady Hamilton ; to my friend Mr. C. C. Lacaita for his suggestions concerning sources for the events of the Neapolitan Revolution of 1798-1799; an.' PREFACE XV to Mr. Neville-Rolfe, our Consul at Naples, for his helpful information. My thanks are further due to the Hon. Herbert Gibbs for most kindly allowing me to reproduce his original of 'Circe' ; to Signor Monaco of the San Martino Gallery at Naples for permitting the recently acquired portrait of Sir John Acton to be photographed ; to Mr, Jones, parish clerk of Havvarden, for much kind assistance ; to Messrs. E. Parsons for being so good as to let me photograph the portrait of Lady Hamilton in their possession ; to Mr. Urban Noseda for consenting to the reproduction of his mezzotint of ' Euphrosyne ' ; and to Mr. Sanderson of Edinburgh for kindly placing a photograph of his historical table at my disposal. It is hoped that the illustrations — comprising, besides the miniature sold this year from the Capel-Cure Collec- tion, original and unreproduced studies and sketches by Romney as well as rare and unknown likenesses of her and her friends — will add fresh and special interest to this epitome of the 'sad vicissitude of things.' WALTER SICHEL. September 1905. PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION I TAKE the opportunity afforded by a new and revised edition to make some necessary corrections. The main errors which have needed them are : — (i) A few subsidiary points with regard to the council of June 17, 1798, with which a portion of Chapter VIII. and Note G. of the Appendix are concerned. (2) A mis-statement (at the beginning of note i p. 447) about Lord Grenville. (3) One of the inferences drawn from the technical terms in the legal document referred to on pp. 433, 434. On close consideration I find that while it establishes that Lady Hamilton's annuity was never paid in advance (as Nelson intended) till May 6, 18 14, and goes to show that till January 1808 she received nothing, it does not justify an assumption that she did not receive her annuity between those two dates. The Abstract of this document (Appendix, p. 489) contained two inaccuracies which are now rectified. (4) A statement on p. 340 that Lady Nelson dissemi- nated and contradicted rumours about Nelson's will, which I find cannot be substantiated. (5) Some confusion on pp. 400 and 434 as to Emma's financial position after Nelson's death. This has now been thoroughly cleared up. I have been able at the same time to incorporate a few new particulars about Emma's earlier and later career, and have added a letter of 1809 from Emma to Sir William Scott, in which she enlarges upon her duties. I owe this to the kindness of Mr. C. Milnes Gaskell. WALTER SICHEL. November 1905. CONTENTS PAGE vii Preface ..... I. Prelude : Lady Hamilton's Temperament . . i IL The Curtain Rises : 1 765-1 782 . . -33 III. The 'Fair Tea-maker of Edgware Row': i 782-1 784 56 IV. ' What God, and Greville, pleases': To March 1786 79 V. Apprenticeship and Marriage : 1787-1791 . . 97 VI. Till the First Meeting : 1791-1793 . , . 137 VII. ' Stateswoman ' : 1794-1797 . . . .168 VIII. Triumph: 1798 . . . . .201 IX. Flight: December 1798 — January 1799 . . 242 X. Triumph Once More : To August 1799 . . 262 XI. Homeward Bound: To December 1800 , . 312 XII. From Piccadilly to 'Paradise' Merton : 1801 . 341 XIII. Exit 'Nestor' : January 1802 — May 1803 . . 384 XIV. Penelope and Ulysses : June 1803 — January 1806 . 405 XV. The Importunate Widow in Liquidation : February 1806 — July 1814 . . . . . 433 XVI. From Debt to Death: ]uly 1814 — January 1815 . 464 b xviii EMMA, LADY HAMILTON APPENDIX Part I. — Notes PAGE A. Evidences as to the date of Lady Hamilton's birth . . 476 B. Dr. James Graham ...... 476 C. Emma'Carew' ....... 479 D. Lady Hamilton's Letter in French to the Countess of Lichtenau ....... 481 E. New Inferential Evidence for Lady Hamilton's General Services to England in 1 794- 1 795 . . . .481 F. Lady Hamilton's Claim concerning the King of Spain's secret letters in the spring of 1795 ^.nd the autumn of 1796 further considered ...... 483 G. Lady Hamilton's Claim to have procured the watering of the British fleet in the summer of 1798 further considered . 486 H. An Abstract of the legal document of May 6, 1814, whereby Lady Hamilton received her first payment in advance of Lord Nelson's annuity ..... 488 Part IL — Nev/ Letters A. Lady Hamilton's Correspondence with Lord Nelson in September and October 1798 ..... 489 B. Lady Hamilton's Correspondence with Mrs. William Nelson in February and March 1801, and in the following Novem- ber ; together with two extracts from letters addressed to Lady Hamilton by Mrs. William Nelson (afterwards Sarah, Countess Nelson) in 1804 and 1805 respectively, and a letter of September 20, 1802, from Lady Hamilton to A. Davison about the Welsh trip . . . .501 C. Later and other New Letters from and to Lady Hamilton — (i) {a) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to J. D. Thomson, September 14, 1805 . . .507 (b) Lady Hamilton to Earl Nelson about the 'last codicil,' November 14, 1806 . . . 508 (2) Earl Nelson's answer to the preceding, November 16, 1806 508 CONTENTS xix PAGE (3) (a) Lady Hamilton to William Hayley, June 5, 1806 . 508 (d) Lady Hamilton to the Rev. A. J. Scott (a vin- dication), September 7, 1806 . . . 509 (4) Summary of a letter from Lady Hamilton to Sir R, Barclay regarding the sale of the Merton estate, Richmond, 1805 . . . . . .510 (5) (a) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to J. Heaviside, surgeon, June 3, 1808 . . .510 (6) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to the Hon. C. F. Greville, November 1808 . .510 (6) (a) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to Mrs. Girdlestone respecting her mother and the Duke of Sussex, August I r, 181 1 . . • 511 (d) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to Captain Rose, 1807 . . . . . -512 (7) Summary of a letter from Lady Hamilton to Mrs. Russell about the ' Prince Regent' Memorial, Dec. 28, 18 12 . 512 (8) Letter from the same to Lord St. Vincent (.'') on the same subject (cf. Note E. in Part I.), February 7, 1813 512 (9) Extract from a letter from the same to Mr. and Mrs. Russell about 'the unfortunate Jewitt,' 1813 . 512 (10) (a) Extract from a letter from Lady Hamilton to Sir William Scott (afterwards Lord Stowell), from ' The Common of St. Peter's, two miles from Calais,' September 12, 1814 . . '513 (i>) Lady Hamilton's letter to the newspapers about the rumours which had been published, September 14, 1814 513 Addenda (11) Extract from a letter of Lady Hamilton to Flaxman, January (?) 1801 . . . . . • 5'4 (12) Extract from a letter of W. Hayley to Flaxman relating to the same, November 17, 1805 . • 5>4 (13) Extract from a letter of Lady Hamilton to Lady Nelson, November (?) 1800 . . . . -514 (14) I. Account of Haberdashery supplied to Lady Hamilton for mourning after Sir William's death . • 5'5 2. John Salter's bill for jewellery supplied to her from January 1802 to March 1803 . . . • 5'5 (15) Extract from a letter of Lady Hamilton to Tyson, May 8, 1805 . . . -515 XX EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ►•AGP. D. New Letters from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton — (i) {a) Extract from a letter from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton, St. George., March 7 [1801] . • 5i5 {b) '■ St. George o^ Kosiock,' yiay 24, iZoi . . 516 (2) (a) Extract from letter, ^Medusa at Sea,' August 24, 180 1 517 {b) Extract from a letter from the same to the same regarding Merton, Amazon, September 23, 1801 518 (3) Letter from Lord Nelson relating to Sir William Hamilton's death, April 6, 1803 . . .518 (4) Extract from a letter from the same to the same, in- dorsed May [4?] 1803, about the reading of Sir W. Hamilton's will . . . . . .518 (5) Extract from a letter from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilton, ' Victory, August 24, 1803' . . . 518 (6) Copy from the original, Amazon, October 14, 1801, showing variations from its transcription by Pettigrew, 519 (7) Extracts from two letters from the same to the same, {a) May 4, 1S05, Victory ; (b) August 18, 1805, Victory ofif Spithead ...... 520 (8) Victory off Carlisle Bay, Barbadoes, June 4, 1805 . 521 (9) Victory, showing the passages omitted by Pettigrew, August 27, 1804 ...... 521 E. Other New Letters from Lord Nelson — (i) Extract from a letter from Lord Nelson to the French Commander at Malta, October 1798 . . . 522 (2) Extract from a letter regarding Malta from the same to Sir James St. Clair Erskine, Naples, 23rd July 1799 • 5^2 (3) Extract from a letter regarding Minorca and his policy, from the same to the same, Naples, August 2, 1799 . 523 (4) (a) Extract from a letter from the same to Lady Hamil- ton, San Josef \?>r\%}c\aLVc{\, February 11, 1801 . 523 {b) Extract from a letter from the same to the same, February 14, 1801 ..... 523 F. Supplementary Letters — (i) From the Hon. C. F. Greville to Lord Hobart or Lord Pelham regarding Lady Hamilton's services, April 12, 1803 . . . . . . .524 (2) The Rev. A. J. Scott's Account of the Battle of Trafalgar in a letter to his uncle, Victory, October 27, 1805 . 524 (3) Account by the same of Lord Nelson's death in a letter to the Right Hon. George Rose . . . 525 (4) Extract from Lady Hamilton's letter to Sir W. Scott, March 22, [1809] ...... 526 Index .......,, 527 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 1. Lady Hamilton (Emma Lyon), . . Frontispiece From an original sepia-study by G. Koinney. (Pro- bably the first sketch for ' Sensibility.') 2. Lady Hamilton (Four Attitudes), . to face page 17 From an original sepia-study by G. Romney, 3. Lady Hamilton, . . . . ,, 21 From a water-colour miniature by H. Treskam. 4. Lady Hamilton, . . . • »» 33 From an original sepia- study by G. Romney. (Pro- bably the first sketch for her as ' Emma.') 5. The Honourable C. F. Greville, . ... 35 From a mezzotint by Meyer. 6. The Cottage at Hawarden inhabited by Lady Hamilton's Grandmother, . . „ 41 From a drawing, after a photograph, by Florence Holms. 7. Jane Powell, Actress, . . • .. 45 From an old print. 8. Lady Hamilton (Emma Lyon) as an Orange- Girl, . . . . „ 46 Probably by J. Opie. 9. Paddington Church and Green, . . „ 56 From an old print. 10. Study in Pen and Wash, by Romney, ok Emma seated in his Studio: Greville entering, . . . . . „ 62 XXll EMMA, LADY HAMILTON II. The Right Honourable Sir William Hamilton, .... to face page 67 Fr07n a rare engraving, probably by Gravelot. 12. Lady Hamilton Dancing the Tarantella, . Front an engraving after the drawing by Lock. 13. Sir John Acton, .... From the portrait acquired by the San Martino Gallery at Naples. 14. Lady Hamilton as 'Cassandra,' From the mezzotint in Hay ley s Life of Roni7iey. 15. Lady Hamilton (1792), From the original miniattcre in water-colours by Miss Carr, afterwards the wife of General Cheney, Aide-de-camp to the Duke of York. 16. Lord Nelson, ..... From an engraved medallion. 17. Lady Hamilton as 'Circe,' . From the original oil painting by G. Romney. 18. Lady Hamilton as ' Euphrosyne,' . From a mezzotint by Hury. 19. Lady Hamilton as 'Serena' in the Boat of Apathy, ..... Frojn afi original oil-sketch by G. Romney. 20. The Table presented by Nelson to Lady Hamilton, and probably painted by Angelica Kauffmann, ..... From a photograph. 2 1. Lady Hamilton, . . . . From the original oil-portrait by J . Masqncrier, 2 2. Lady Hamilton (Emma Lyon) in an atti- tude of Dejection, From the original sepia-study by G. Romney. 109 123 135 137 157 169 201 256 259 262 325 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xxiii 23. Lord Nelson, .... to fact pa^e 341 From an original chalk-sketch by G. Romney. 24. Merton Place, ..,.,, 384 From an engraving after the drawing by Locker. 25. George Romney, . . . • ., 394 From a rare engraving by Madame Bovy after the medallion by Alphonso Hay ley, 26. Lady Hamilton as a Pompeian Dancer WITH A Child, . . . . „ 399 From the shaded edition of the Attitudes. 27. The Earliest Sketch of Emma Lyon, . ,, 443 By Miss Thomas of Hawarden, daughter of her first employer. AUTOGRAPH COLLOTYPES 1. Lady Hamilton's Letter of June 17, 1798, to face page 209 2. Admiral Nelson's Immediate Answer of the same date, . . . . .,,211 ERRATA Page 67. Portrait of Sir W. Hamilton facing this page, for ' Gravelot ' read ' Grignion.' ,, 94, note 3, omit ' The "/a" is Greville's.' ,, 188, ,, I, yiiL 208. B i8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON savage beasts back into humanity ! As Joan of Arc (a memorial of Romney's French visit), she is patriotism inspired and inspiring. As Saint Cecilia, she is the soul of rapt melody ; as * Mirth,' the ideal of careless laughter ; as ' Comedy,' bending over the infant Shakespeare, she reflects frolic motherhood; as ' Euphrosyne,'^ she seems arch ' L'Allegra ' herself, all ' wreathed smiles.' Two less familiar but most idyllic representations of her as a tired Bacchante, piping amid the grass, and a fervid, tragic Muse, long went by the names of ' Tragedy ' and ' Comedy,' but have now, I believe, been called ' shepherdesses.' As Bacchante,- as Magdalen, as a Sibyl, she imparts, not receives, moods, ideas, emotions. I have seen a chalk sketch of her as a vision of Hellas, all majesty and terror ; an oil sketch of her as Ophelia, ethereal and fading, in the dis- array of her spirit, as the field-flowers in her hair. Romney studies of her are extant, as agonised or martyred suppliant, as an incarnation of listlessness or pensive regret, as clinging Juliet abandoning herself to Romeo. The picture of her as Medea, the figure, as Romney wrote to her, ' sitting with her hair floating in the air,'^ has vanished, but another 'Medea' remains which, although a mere outline by the architectural Rehberg, is left with that wonderful 'Thamar' among the ' Attitudes,' and recalls some impression of the tragic mother hastening her child and herself in horror-stricken fear to Nemesis. The * Serena in the Boat of Apathy ' * has at last been found; so also the original portrait-study of * Emma ' with all its speaking brightness of expression. She was ^ I cannot agree with Messrs. H. Ward and W. Roberts that one of these ' Euphrosynes ' is a portrait of Mrs. Crouch. * John Romney in his Memoirs of George Romney mentions another of her in this character for Sir W. Hamilton, and ' lost, I believe, at sea on its return to this country.' ^ Letter of August 1786, quoted in Mr. H. Ward's and Mr. W. Roberts's Life. * Hayley, writing to her in 1804, and signing himself 'The Hermit, 'says that in his ' little marine cell ' he could ' entertain ' her ' with a sight of yourself in three enchanting personages, Cassandra, Serena, and Sensibility. These three ladies are all worth seeing, whether the old Hermit is so or not ; so, pray, come to see us whenever you can. Adieu.' — Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 597. John Romney in his Life of his father, says it was painted for Mr. Christian Curwen (p. 180). LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 19 never ashamed of having been a servant, and in this guise too Romney has painted her as well as in that of a gypsy.^ Mr. Hargreaves of Liverpool possesses an early portrait of her as a country girl. Of Romney's many portrayals, per- haps the loveliest is that in the present possession of Mr. Alfred de Rothschild ; but a rival to this exists in the fine likeness of her as ' Ambassadress,' completed on her wedding day in September 1791, and immediately after her return from Marylebone Church. She sits dressed in white with a blue band round her waist, and one of those large blue velvet hats which were her favourites, and which Greville used often to forward to Naples, in meek obedience to her behests, after she had become his aunt. Romney also painted her in that ' Turkish dress ' with which she greeted him on her return to London in the spring of that year. He painted her reading a book — one of the most charming of his unfinished likenesses ; he painted her in every posture and aspect. Romney's own choice among all his portraitures of her was that where her staid sweetness is personified as ' The Seamstress,' which should be distinguished from the even more beautiful * Spinstress,' also painted for Greville and parted from (like the original) with a pang of almost pious resignation, to Mr. Christian Curwen.'-^ ' The sight,' wrote Romney to her in 1786, soon after her first appearance in Naples, ' of such a head as the Cassandra,' which he was copying for Hayley, always 'inspires' him; but as for his subsequent sitters, ' ladies of fashion,' since her departure, ' all fall far short of the Sempstress ; indeed, it is the sun of my Hemispheer and they are the twinkling stars.' ^ Emma was eminently ' when unadorned, adorned the most.' Greville, remarking on her discretion in conduct and choice ' Emma sent for this picture in 1786, soon after her arrival at Naples, but it seems to have vanished. It is interesting to note that so late as 1799 Sir Alexander Ball, writing from Malta, reminds her how she had dressed up in gypsy guise at Palermo, and told his fortune. Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. P- 233- ' Cf. Greville's letter lo Romney, February 25, 17S8, quoted in John Romney's Life of his father, p. 184. ^ Cf. the letter of August 1786, found in one of Romney's sketch-books by Mr. Fairfax Murray, and given in Mr. II. Ward's and Mr. W. Roberts's Life of Romney^ vol. i. p. 67. 20 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON of acquaintance, also noticed her neatness and fondness for plain if good attire. Sir William, writing to her from a shooting-box some years before her marriage with him, and after she had graced without jewels a Neapolitan ball where all the wives of the corps diplomatique glittered with gems, observed that she was the ' brightest jewel ' there ; and in another letter : ' Take my word,' he told his wife, ' that for some years to come the more simply you dress, the more conspicuous will be your beauty, which, according to my idea, is the most perfect I have met with, take it all in all.'^ None the less, her simplicity suffered as she won applause, and the earlier pictures of her are the most touching. It is needless to pursue the dreamland which she created for Romney. Scores of other artists, at home and abroad, painted, sculptured, modelled her in wax, carved her on intaglios or enamelled her on boxes. Tischbein, Hackert and the Italian Rega were prominent.^ Romney's friend Tresham was always painting her. The great Sir Joshua is not ascertained to have painted any other semblance of her than the 'Bacchante' — commissioned by Sir William Hamilton, his old ally, to whom he wrote among the first about the foundation of the Royal Academy.^ But Hoppner and Lawrence limned her more than once;* Gainsborough also painted her,^ though I cannot agree that his 'Musidora' resembles her; rather it is like Mrs. 'Perdita' Robinson. Cosvvay drew and miniatured her. There are two among several representations by Angelica Kauffmann, one as Cleopatra, the other a really fine study of Ariadne deserted, though not to be compared with Romney's presentment of her in that forsaken character. ' Angelaca ' (as Emma styled her) painted her also as an Italian Contadina resting by a pillar of the Caserta home- ^ Nelson Letters, Jan. l8, 1792. From Persano, whither he accompanied the king. 2 The writer has one of these ; another, in the British Museum, was used by Nelson as a seal. 2 Morrison MS. 17, March 1769. Reynolds, however, is believed to have left at least one sketch of her. ■* In Sir Walter Armstrong's Life this portrait is catalogued as ' Ex Bishop of Ely.' •"' He drew her at least twice — once after Sir William's death ; but his Bacchante holding a cherry is the sole work of significance. Lady Hamii.ion. From an early -Mater-colour sketch by H. Treskaiii. LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 21 stead, or perhaps in Rome, and this portrait, which lacks distinction, is now in the South Kensington Museum. But she also delineated her naturally as ' A Lady Resting.' Cipriani made, it is said, a delicate water-colour of her towards the close of his life, while she was still on the threshold of youth. Gavin Hamilton drew her as ' Thalia,' and the head of this still masquerades in England as a work of Romney. Madame Le Brun's ' Bacchante on the Seashore' is familiar, but she further portrayed her as a Sibyl and also as ' Bacchante ' in a different attitude. Cuzzardi — a mediocre painter — portrayed her both at large and in miniature. Opie seems to have painted her as an orange-girl ; Single- ton drew her as ' Maternal Attention ' and as ' Laughter' — reminiscent of Romney. The Irish Barry also tried his hand ; Wells, too, limned her as ' Inquiry ' and ' Nerissa ' ; others as ' Hebe,' as ' Industry,' as ' Idleness.' Even Westall could not vulgarise her as ' St. Cecilia ' and * Sappho.' The second-rate Masquerier took her portrait in England about 1802. Saye's mezzotint has a Neapolitan background, but the original, unearthed at the end of last year, shows an English park, possibly that of Eonthill. There were, moreover, masses of apocryphal portraits, especially in Paris, where the Jacobins delighted to malign even her face from imagination. She may be said to have founded both a type and a vogue, for more than one fashion- able lady was taken 'as Lady Hamilton.' Her play of expression was indeed extraordinary. She could so trans- form her face and gestures in harmony with her moods as to become a separate impersonation. In repose her counte- nance looked wholly different from its aspect under agita- tion, and her profile differs from her full face. To Romney then, as afterwards to Nelson, she was a Muse ; a Muse communicating and inspiring, or, at least, a medium of inspiration. To the part of Muse the symmetry of her form and features — those of a Greek statue or in- taglio ^ — the classical yet mobile mouth which artists from ' When Sir William, the most zealous of connoisseurs and antiquarians, made a tour in 1789 to the southernmost region of Italy, he acquired an intaglio which he averred the image of Emma. In 1800 he called her his 'fair Grecian.' Cf. Cyrus Kcdding's Fifty Years of my Life. 22 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the first singled out as a miracle,^ the auburn tresses touched with gold, that, released from their fillets, swayed around her dancing feet, the clear, deep grey-violet of the large, soulful eyes,^ all lent themselves. The old Bishop of Derry, Sir William's friend and schoolfellow, scarcely blasphemed in asserting that Emma's creation betokened a * glorious mood ' in her Creator.^ True, she was often a muse of the green room, a free and easy muse of Bohemia, sometimes a muse with something of the fury * behind her, on occasion a muse of dare-devilry, a volatile muse too, a muse also that could 'cook "Sir Willum's" apple pies/^ or enjoy the Irish stew which her own mother had dressed,^ and, above all, a muse that gloried in having sprung from the people, and could snap her fingers gaily in the face of kings.'^ But a muse, notwithstanding, she endures. She could never have fixed the respectful wor- ship of Romney and the reverent passion of Nelson had not this prerogative been hers. Or, if exception be taken to so fine a metaphor, let me explain my meaning otherwise. Emma was by nature a model — a model that called forth the slumbering ideals or sensations of others. To Romney she was the model of all the possibilities of feeling, and every beauty in action ; she transformed his art, as may be seen by comparing his pictures before with those after he knew her. To Hamilton she was the model of antique art. To Nelson, of glory, of Britain. All these she may not have been, but it was her strange faculty to realise and revive them in others ; to the7n, these she was. How many models of loveliness in pictures have faded away nameless, while Emma abides ! And just as the study for a great picture has the weakness ^ So said Gavin Hamilton. 2 One of them had a small brown speck upon it. The writer owns a water- colour likeness by Romney which defines the colour ; Mrs. St. George in her Journal calls them ' blue. ' 3 Morrison MS. 248, November 1794. A letter from Joseph Denham, who recalls the saying to her mind. ^ Tischbein painted her in this character, and as ' Iphigenia.' '' Minto Life and Lcttets, vol. ii. p. 365. ^ Journal o{ Mrs. St. George [Melesina Chenevix, afterwards Mrs. Richard Trench]. Cf. posl, ch. xi. ^ She did so once in the face of Ferdinand of Naples. Cf. post, chap. xi. LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 23 peculiar to studies, but a special charm of its own tran- scending the finished work, and tingling with the soul in unison with the hand, so Emma was such a study for that which often she never attained, but constantly inspired. There is a strain of 'Trilby' about Lady Hamilton, and Du Maurier's pathetic apology for his heroine's lapses applies to her also. Yet fully to understand a faculty so chameleon, we must recognise, as was certainly the case, the grave drawbacks that it entailed. Although there was a sub- structure that was always Emma, she was yet possessed by the reigning influence of the hour. She was what she /e/t. Under Greville's rule she was prudent, childlike, scrupulously exact even in the household accounts which survive. With Hamilton she became a diplomatist anxious to shine, and rather an economist of fame than money, which she lavished on both public and private purposes, more indeed than his Highland hospitality and the demands of a pinched connoisseur approved;^ but even then for her own expenses she never exceeded her most moderate allow- ance, much of which was bestowed on charity. While she was the queen's comrade she caught from Maria Carolina the terse, broken over-emphasis of her style. With Nelson she turned heroine, and it will be found that her heroics meant real heroism. When he died, however, and no ruler of her life was left, the Duke of Queensberry's set, rapacious Italian refugees, the demands of kinsfolk, the burden of Merton improvements, prompted extravagance at every turn. She relapsed into a mere tissue of embedded memories and of bygone selves, unsteadied by controlling mastery. And after her mother's death in 18 10, only her unvarying attachment to the child Horatia regulated her at all. The muse as medium, the muse of mutual inspira- tion was dead. Few will question that here was an original woman, whose iridescent nature was not that of the common herd, but a compound of strange opposites. This was no cultivated ' In one of his letters of 1801 Nelson reminds Emma how her husband used to stint in candles and other tritlcs. As early as 1774 Sir R. Keith banters him from Vienna on ' economising ' in postage. Morrison MS. 32. 24 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON type of the Renaissance such as Diane de Poitiers with the fin sourire of her epoch. She was no vulgar or venal adventuress, still less the wanton minx or pariah of tradi- tion. She was not a daughter of pleasure at all. Nor did she resemble those of her contemporaries, like Lady May- nard and Lady Seaforth, whose mere frailty found refuge in titled wedlock ; or those refined intrigantes^ the Countess of Lichtenau and ' Princess Elizabeth,' ^ whose romantic adventures drew both to Naples, and whose pitiful ends proved that royalty is perhaps the weakest reed of all on which to lean. Nor was she a feinnie galante like her luck- less friend Mrs. Billington, or like that nobly-born and winning wanderer Grace Dalrymple Elliott, or the sad, sentimental 'Perdita.' Emma's good name was absolutely untarnished from the date of her marriage until 1800; she could fix, as hundreds of epistles witness, not only regard but respect. One of their foundations was her inherent homeliness. This homeliness, Propriety-Impropriety-Greville — the pattern of precision — always gratefully acknowledged. She had not been long with Sir William before he too vaunted that she was very ' domestic' ' Good and kind,' Nelson often wrote, she was to everybody, * knowing how to reward merit in rich or poor, beggar or prince,' and he loved her to row him on the tiny Nile at Merton.^ ' I assure you, my dear friend,' he exclaimed in October i8oi,'I had rather read and hear all your little story of a white hen getting into a tree, or an anecdote of Fatima [Horatia], or hear you call " Cupidy, Cupidy," than any speech I shall hear in Parliament ; because I know ' — he adds, referring to an episode which long affected her fate — ' although you can adapt your language and manners to a child, yet that you can also thunder forth such a torrent of eloquence that corruption and infamy would sink before your voice in however exalted a position it might be placed.' Children ' This extraordinary woman claimed (and perhaps rightly) to be the Czarina's daughter by Count Rasoumowski. After an education in Persia and many wanderings, she appealed to the aid of the Sultan, besought Hamilton's assist- ance at Naples, was betrayed by the Russian Minister, Orloff, to the Court of St. Petersburg, where she languished a prisoner till she died. 2 Nelson Letters (1814), vol. ii. passim. LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 25 and animals and all young things were her joy. She shrank from those enormous battues which Sir William shared annually with the King of Naples, and her compas- sionate heart bled for its victims. Never, once wrote Nelson to her, would any live thing be hurt in her neigh- bourhood. Tranquillity, repose, the details of a farm superintended by her own hands, sat on her as easily at Merton as flutter and excitement in Piccadilly. She long bestowed care on the education of Nelson's nieces, includ- ing the future Lady Bridport. Horatia's, mismanaged as it was, engrossed her from the moment when the child could be received under her roof And in her heroic days at Naples she performed the humblest services. She was an excellent nurse, perhaps from her early servi- tude as a poor little maid of thirteen. She was always nursing her old husband, and she nursed him affec- tionately to the end. She received Lord St. Vincent's written thanks for nursing Nelson. She was constantly nursing sick friends. And she was ready to tend and mend the entire fleet. There is an amusing passage in one of our new letters of 1798 from her to Nelson in this connection. It concerns an Irish orphan, a lad in Nelson's ship when in the October of this year he was settling affairs at Leg- horn. Emma thus wrote to her hero : ' My dear little fatherless Fady — tell him to keep his head clean and when he comes back I will be his mother as much as I can ; comb, wash, and cut his nails ; for with pleasure I loved to do it all for him.' ^ The Morrison Collection is full of grateful thanks from all sorts and conditions of men and women for her kindnesses towards them. One of these speaks of her ' divine urbanity and condescension by which you have attracted to yourself the admiration and respect of mankind.' - Such was the woman that Nelson's intense attachment has idealised. How he idealised her the following excerpt from an unpublished letter, written on the St. George off ' Add. MS. 34,989, f. iS, October 24, 179S. Sir W. Ilamiltou in one of his letters to her {Nelson Ixttcrs) looks forward to the same attentions, and so does Nelson in another (Morrison M.S.). - Morrison MS. 453. From T. Roche, Feb. 14, iSoo— a welcome Valentine. 26 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Rostock some seven weeks after the Copenhagen battle, will indicate. Its praise was caused by her rejection of the overtures of the Prince Regent and his graceless crew, circumstances which called forth some of the most extra- ordinary letters ever written by Nelson.^ Sir William had been selling his pictures at Christie's, and among them, to Nelson's rage, portraits of Emma herself. Nelson com- missioned the purchase of Romney's ' St. Cecilia,' and it eventually found its way to his cabin : ' Yesterday I joined Admiral Totty where I found little Parker with all my treasures, your dear kind friendly letters, your picture as Santa Emma, for a Santa you are, if ever there was one in this world. For what makes a Saint.? The being so much better than the rest of the human race. Therefore as truly as I believe in God, do I believe you are a Saint, and in this age of wickedness you sett an example of great Virtue and Goodness which if we are not sunk in Luxury and Infamy ought to rouse up almost forgot Virtue. . . . And I am one of those who believe that in England the higher the class, the worse the company. I speak generally. I will not think so bad of any class but that there may be some good individuals in it. How can I sufficiently thank you for all your goodness and kindness to me, a forlorn outcast except in your generous soul.'^ Hyperbole from a lover's lips ! — and so amazing that it brings one to a halt. It sounds incredible until the curious episode that underlies it is unfolded with our story. And even then, a lover's hyperbole it remains. Their mutual troth was no common passion, but a deep and lasting love. It led him to idealise her beyond comparison, to find in her the fulfilment of his dearest and highest dreams. Her idealised image was for him none the less an inspiriting reality. Good Dr. Johnson deemed his plain wife a beauty. Nelson knew that Emma had been a heroine, and here he proclaims her a saint ! But his devotion led him to invert the accepted stan- dards ; to consecrate a love that discarded wedlock, and to exalt wifeliness far above wifehood, to regard the one in the ^ Cf. chap. xii. , where they are reproduced for the first time. 2 Add. MS. 34,274 G., May 24, 1801. Cf. Appendix, Part li. D. (i). LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 27 light of convenience, the other in the h'ght of conviction. No one can read his later letters, especially the new and striking instances given in the Appendix,^ v/ithout realising to what lengths he carried these transposals. Just as the conventional morality often canted against him, so Nelson, by spiritualising his defiance, may be said in a manner to have canted also. But for him it was all truth itself And sAewas no less genuine. Her ill-regulated ideals of kindness, of feeling, and of glory — all these she realised in Nelson. Hitherto she had been lovingly grateful to varying selfish- ness. Nelson's unselfishness transfigured her to herself; she became capable of great moments. And she was born for friendship. ' I would not be a lukewarm friend for the world,' she wrote to him at the outset in one of our new letters. ' I cannot make friends with all, but the few friends I have I would die for them.'- She was always warm-hearted to a fault, as will amply appear as her character grows up in these pages. So far from numbing Nelson, she nerved him ; nor did she ever debase — far less befoul — any within the range of her influence. But she was also a born pagan, and a born rebel. If such a temperament could admit of saintliness, if such a thing could be as a lawless, an unregenerate saint, then, perhaps, Emma had earned her profane halo far more than would be readily conceded. I f courage alone, and generosity, and tenderness, and energy, and big-heartedness, and a will over-defiant of opinion, could make a 'saint,' the phrase had not been overstrained. But Emma never learned the lesson of self-effacement ; rather she sought to realise herself. I have reserved to the last perhaps the most singular, and certainly the most blameworthy, phase of her develop- ment, which really led to all the miseries and wrongs of her closing years, for '. . . II est juste Qu'on soit puni par oil I'on a pechc.' From the disguised birth of Horatia in January 1801 • Appendix, Part il. D. (i) (a) and {f>), and (8) (2) {a). ^ Add. MS. 34,989, f. 24, Oct. 28. See Appendix, Part II. A. 28 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON involving both Emma and Nelson, each from their wish to defend the other, in a degrading conspiracy of silence, she was constrained to play the part realised by Sudermann in the heroine of his play Es lebe das Leben. Lady Hamilton thenceforward, like ' Beate,' craved a triple realisation of existence in the strong lover, the weak but still cherished husband, and the tenderly guarded child. It was and ever will be a futile quest. But the Muse in search of a Hero, and the Hero in search of a Muse, encountered each other, and there was an end. To ' warm ' tJiree ' hands before the fire of life ' is incompatible with the very basis of society, and she wronged irretrievably that blameless, if narrow and inadequate, woman who had been united to him in hasty and regretted wedlock.^ Nelson always hoped to have been able to legalise his and Emma's union of hearts. She was his ' pride and delight,'- ' his wife before God ' ; his love for her was ' unbounded ' as his element 'the ocean ';^ he would take unto him a wife ' more suitable to his genius ' than the once ' valuable ' Fanny. To Emma, Nelson was 'the dearest husband of my heart,' her 'idol,' her 'man of men,'^ her 'Hero of Heroes,' ^ her 'all of good' — surely a very sweet and genuine expression, and occurring in the last letter but one that she ever addressed to him.*^ All his enemies were hers, and all his friends.'^ For him she lived ; in the faith that she would meet him again, she ^ In one of her letters Mrs. Bolton, Nelson's sister, says that Lady Nelson only 'pretended to love him.' But his family were biassed against her. Her real faults will appear as the chronicle advances. - From an unpublished passage in a letter belonging to Mrs. Hampden : ' Victory, off Carlisle Bay, Barbadoes, June 4, 1805.' In another from the same source (one of his last): ' Victory, off Portland, Sept. 16, 1805.' ... 'I love and adore you to the very excess of the passion. . . . Should I be forced, I will act as a man, neither courting or ashamed to hold up my head before the greatest monarch in the world ! I have, thank God, nothing to be ashamed of.' These, among other letters belonging to Mrs. Hampden, were originally Pettigrew's, but such as he printed were published with the fervour stoned out of them. Cf. Appendix, Part li. D. ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 135, Aug. 26, 1803. He also calls her his 'Alpha and Omega.' ^ Eg. MS. 1623, f. 32, April 2, 1802. ^ Eg. MS. 2240, f. 151. ^ Morrison MS. 844, Oct. 24, 1805. ^ Ibid. , passim, and cf. post, chapters xi. and xii. Jl LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 29 died.^ Never was a pair more tenderly attached, or indeed wrapped up in one another. It should be recollected, too, that from their first and brief acquaintance in September 1793. till his death in October 1805, the sum total of time that could be spent in each other's company did not extend to as much as four years. This ordeal of absence, while it heightened their longings, proved a hard strain for endeared affection. But none of this can excuse Nelson for putting away his jealous wife as rashly as he had wedded her, or absolve Lady Hamilton's fanning of his flame, or her atti- tude towards the woman she had foiled, and who had slighted her. And so surely as the imploring wraith of Emma is indissociable from his image on the column of heroism and glory, so surely, even granting her pettier nature and her grievance over shattered social ambitions, that other wraith of the injured wife mutely and justly turns her indignant back on its base. She was unfor- giving, but so was the revengeful rival who had supplanted her, ' Forgiveness to the injured doth belong, He never pardons who hath done the wrong.' Fair Rosamund was probably relentless towards Queen Eleanor before the appearance of the dagger and the bowl. There were, it is true, many palliations ; and one un- doubted and curious fact of psychology seems to have been overlooked. None can combine all Nelson's many private letters, scattered through many collections, without realis- ing his intense desire for fatherhood. His wife had never borne him children, while his devotion to his drunken step- son had all along been ill-repaid both by 'the cub' himself and by the mother, who alternately petted and persecuted her son. Lady Hamilton, too, by nature motherly,' yearned for a child that she might freely acknowledge. Writing to Nelson so early as the autumn of 1798, in one of our new letters, she ends it thus: ' Love Sir William and myself, for we love you dearly. He is the best husband, I wish I ' Morrison MS. 959. - Cf. ihe letters of 1784 in the Morrison MS. about that poor ' little Emma,' of whom she was deprived, and of whom more hereafter. 30 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON cou'd say father allso, but I shou'd be too happy if I had the blessing of having children, so must be content.*^ For some years she had even then been rather the spoiled daughter than the wife, the nurse and chatelaine more than the partner of her ageing husband, who had so long prided himself on perennial youth. She was sincerely attached to him and he to her, despite those tiffs towards the close of his life, arising from her marked attentions to the man whom both loved and tended. His last letter to her pro- claims that to her alone he remained attached beyond the bounds of friendship, while the words of his will praise Nelson as the most loyal friend and gentleman of his long experience. It is almost impossible to believe that such a practised worldling should have been bhnd to the real relations which matured so suddenly. His very fond- ness might have set him guessing, for ' who dotes,' in Shakespeare's adage, ' doubts.' One might exclaim with Beaumarchais — ' Qui est-ce done que Ton trompe? Tout le monde est du secret.' The probability is that with his placid bias and love of ease, he deliberately shut his ears to the insinuations of Greville and others. Rather than risk ' scenes,' or disturb the lives of the tvvo that he loved best in the world, he hoodwinked himself into a fool's paradise. At any rate, both Nelson and Emma (in whose arms he expired) were with him to the last.^ But the retribution to Lady Hamilton came in her enforced attitude towards Horatia, and Horatia's towards her. Until the alleged offspring of ' Mrs. Thomson' could safely be lodged at Merton, she had perforce, during their joint visits to the baby in Little Titchfield Street, to stand apart and aloof, despite her yearning. Horatia herself — 1 Add. MS. 34,989, f. 18. That she had one child already (though no more) will be proved as we proceed. What she means is no child of Hamilton that she could be allowed to cherish in her home. - The actual account of the closing scene is given by Nelson in a letter imme- diately after Hamilton's death. — Eg. MS. 2240, f. 157. This letter has never been published, and will be cited in its place. It will be found that his last conversation with Greville before he died concerned his desire that the Government would acknowledge and reward her services. LADY HAMILTON'S TEMPERAMENT 31 her mother's last companion — called her ' My Lady,' and was afterwards reared to believe her birth a nameless mystery, though a mass of conclusive evidence leaves no shadow of doubt as to whose child she was. Here surely was some burden of punishment. Emma suffered for her sin. Nor should we forget the tone and standard of the age. Two currents were contending. The one, of a materialist aristocracy (still regarded as demi-gods by the people), championing the outward bienseances. Such were the Warwicks, the Hamiltons, the Pembrokes, and the Port- lands. The other, of the equally hedonist sansculottes, who transformed an opera-dancer into the statue of their goddess, Reason ; or of such English Jacobins as Miss Wil- liams, herself crowned in Normandy as the same presiding saint. Unconscious hypocrisy was confronted by conscious licence. Old barriers were openly upheld by those who covertly sneered at them ; while those who broke them down stood naked and not ashamed. Everywhere, too, as authority and reverence tottered, while all boundaries bade fair to disappear, was quaffed and handed on from lip to lip the intoxicating cup of emancipation. In the following pages her good and evil qualities will alike be scrutinised. No attempt will be made to blink her errors, which are reviewed and re-examined. Rut she has been constantly blamed in the wrong instances for lack of a full knowledge, while praise for the same reason has often been inappropriately bestowed. The sole endeavour of my research — the only aim for which research should exist — is truth. With a wide background, and in a full light, the reader can here see her as she lived, and form his own independent judgment. That she played a hand in the hard game of history will be amply manifest. Was it for her own hand that she chiefly played, or did she play, and with her own cards, for others ? One fact is certain : in loving Nelson when she was most powerful and most respected she risked her all, and from mutual help arose their mutual love. Throughout she will be found urging the interests of others before her own, and immediately after Nelson's death first advocating his family's advan- 32 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON tage. Contrary to the received version, she seems not to have addressed Nelson's brother on her own behalf till more than a year after her hero's death.^ Whatever sentence the reader may pronounce on the evidence to be submitted, he cannot fail to mark the psychological problems of her being. In any case, with all her blots and failings, Lady Hamilton presents one of the most fascinating studies in the eternal duel of sex. To her may well be applied the line which her future husband quoted in his book of 1772 -.^ — 'Tantarum femina rerum.'^ ^ Cf. fosi, chap. XV., and Appendix, Part II. C. (i) (a) and (2). - Observations on Mount Fesuvms, Mount Etna, etc. ' From Cornelius Severus' poem on Etna: — ' The heroine of a thousand things." CHAPTER II THE CURTAIN RISES — 1765-1782 On the morning of January 10, 1782, the punctih'ous and elegant Honourable Charles Francis Greville, gloomy still over the loss of his Warwick election, but consoled by a snug, if unsafe, post in the Board of Admiralty,^ much exercised, too, in his careful way, about minerals, animals, science, the fine arts, and the flickering out of the American war, was even more exercised by a missive from a poor young girl who had already crossed his path. Fronting him in the dainty chamber of his mansion in the new- and fashionable Portman Square, swung a pet monkey,^ and hung the loaned 'Venus' by Correggio, slightly retouched with applied water-colour.'* This over-prized picture had been for years the cherished idol of his uncle and alter ego, Sir William Hamilton, K.C.B.,^ Fellow of the Antiquarian and the Royal Societies, member of the Dilettanti, the Tuesday, and other clubs, foster-brother of the now George III., and sometime both his and his brother's equerry ; the busy man of pleasure, the renowned naturalist and ' Cf. Morrison MS. 95-97, September and October 1780. lie had formerly enjoyed a better post in the Board of Trade. — Morrison MS. 29, May 11, 1773- * Portman Square, begun in 1764, was not completed till twenty years later. Greville had previously lived in Charles Street and St. James's Square, with intervals of ' King's Mews,' to which too afterwards he reverted. In the end he returned to Paddington, and the last surviving letter from Emma to him (during her troubles in 1S08) is addressed to the scene of their earliest memories. ^ Morrison MS. 96. * By 'Henry Morland,' 'painter and picture-dealer, a friend of mine.' — Morrison MS. 36, June 28, 1774. » In 1773. C 34 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON virtuoso of Portland vase celebrity,^ and already for about eighteen^ years His Britannic Majesty's amiably-grumbling Ambassador at the Court of the King of the two Sicilies. The monkey's health had disquieted Greville a year before, but this letter almost excited him. It was franked by him- self on a wrapper in his own neat handwriting, bore the Chester postmark, and contrasted strongly with the tasteful tone of the room and its superfine owner. It ran as follows : ' Yesterday did I receve your kind letter. It put me in some spirits for, believe me, I am allmost distracktid. I have never hard from Sir H.,^ and he is not at Lechster now, I am sure. I have wrote 7 letters, and no anser. What shall I dow ? Good God what shall I dow. ... I can't come to toun for want of mony. I have not a farthing to bless my self with, and I think my friends looks cooly on me. I think so. O. G. what shall I dow? What shall I dow? O how your letter affected me when you wished me happiness. O. G. that I was in your posesion * or in Sir H. what a happy girl would I have been ! Girl indeed ! What else am I but a girl in distres — in reall distres ? For God's sake, G, write the minet you get this, and only tell me what I am to dow. Direct same whay. I am allmos mad. O for God's sake tell me what is to become on me. O dear Grevell, write to me. Write to me. G. adue, and believe [me] yours for ever Emly Hart. ' Don't tel my mother what distres I am in, and dow afford me some comfort. ' My age was got out of the Reggister, and I now send it to my dear Charles. Once more adue, O you dear friend.'^ ^ For his early difficulties in disposing of it, cf. Morrison MS. 6i, 1776. Sir Joshua Reynolds, writing to Hamilton in 1769 of 'the grace and genteelness of some of the figures ' in the Neapolitan galleries, calls him * so great a patron and judge.' — Morrison MS. 17. ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 90. ^ Sir Harry Fetherstonehaugh, of Up Park, Sussex, who lived to correspond in middle age with her in terms of the most deferential friendship. His name is thus spelt in his letters. * Misprinted by Mr. Jeaffreson as 'position.' ^ Morrison MS. 112. This letter has been given with its answer, though with one inaccuracy, by Mr. Jeaffreson. The enclosed duplicate of the baptismal register was, as we shall shortly see, inaccurately copied by the then curate of Great Neston, Cheshire. The Honourahi.k Ciiaki.ks I-kancis Gkk\ili.e. Bv G. l\OMNKV. After the Mezzotint by H. Meyer. THE CURTAIN RISES 35 Who was this girl in ' reall distres,' what her past? who were the friends who looked ' cooly ' on her, and for what reasons? These questions will shortly be answered so far as replies admit of real proof. But first a brief space must be devoted to Greville himself, since his individuality is as necessary to the coming plot as her own. The Honourable Charles Francis Greville was now thirty- two. The second son of the Right Honourable Francis, Earl of Brooke (afterwards Earl of Warwick), and of Elizabeth Hamilton, one of Sir William's sisters, he was born at Fulham on May 12, 1749, and baptized on June 8 follow- ing.^ He was born prematurely old, parsimoniously extra- vagant, and cautiously careless. His cradle should have been garlanded with official minutes, and draped with collectors' catalogues. From his earliest days he was prim, methodical, and pedantic beyond his years. The unlikeli- hood of surviving his eldest brother had been ever before his eyes, and he was set on the emoluments of a political career, promising much to one so highly connected. While still in his teens he began amassing virtu with discernment, and specimens of mineralogy on a ' philosophical ' system. Some years before his majority he had struck up a brotherly affection with his free-hearted uncle, nearly twenty years his senior, who relied on a precocious judgment, invaluable to one compelled by long absences to entrust to others the management of his wife's Pembrokeshire property,^ indispensable also to both in the keen pursuit of their common tastes, the one in Italy, the home of art, the other in England, the nursery of science. From a very early date the student of beauty and curios, the investigator of shells, marine monsters, and volcanoes, ' Pliny the Elder,' as he came to be called, was always exchanging rarities with 'Pliny the Younger,' or comm ssioning him to buy, sell, or raffle Dutch and Italian pictures, Etruscan urns, Greek torsos, and Roman vases. Hamilton was a true man of science, and a really great archaeologist. When he first came to ' See the Register. Lyson's Euvirous of London, vol. ii. p. 389. ^ Brought him through marriage (in 1757) with Miss Barlow, a Welsh heiress. His cousin married another Welsh heiress. Miss Williams of Gwint. 36 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Naples in 1764 he spent months in his Villa Angelica, on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, taking observations and excavating antiquities. He was far less a trafficker in objects of art and learning than his nephew. He presented both books and specimens of value to the British Museum. His aim, in his own words, was that of ' employing his leisure in use to mankind.'^ Not quite so, however, was that of Pliny the Younger, who in his turn bought crystals and works of art with equal zest of connoisseur- ship. Greville was barely twenty-one when he went the Italian tour, stayed with his uncle at Naples, then in the full fever of unearthing buried chefs-d'ceuvre at Hercu- laneum and Pompeii, which were so soon to experience many fresh escapes from re-destruction by earthquakes and eruptions.- From Rome, in this year, the nephew indited two of the most self-assured letters of grave gossip and counsel that any youngster has ever addressed to one nearly twice his age. They are so like himself that a small part of them must be given : ' I begin with a subject that I have resolved every time I have wrote to mention, and now particularly I am under an obligation to remember, as for the first time my handkerchief has been knotted on the occasion. It is to desire you to enquire for two books I left in my room at your house ; 2 pocket volumes of Milton's works. I borrowed them, and left them with an intention they should be sent to Mr. Harfrere to whom they belong. . . . The ink bottle has this moment oversett, but you see I am not disconcerted, so pray don't make observa- tions, and the letter is as good as it was. Pray let me 1 Observations on Mount Vesuvius, etc. (1772). The villa was probably called after the artist. Hamilton constantly ran great danger in observing and record- ing violent eruptions. He was indefatigable in superintending excavations, and he mentions being present at Pompeii when a horse with jewelled trappings and its rider were unearthed. He was a munificent patron alike of discoverers, travellers, scientists and artists, including Flaxman and Wedgwood. He was a trustee of the British Museum, and a vice-president of the Society of Anti- quaries. A big book on his Greek and Roman antiquities was written by D'llarcauville (Naples, 1765-1775 ; Paris, 1787). Besides the book already mentioned, supplemented in 1779, Hamilton wrote Cavipi Phlegrcei (Naples, 1776-7), and the fr mous work on Greek and Etruscan urns, etc., illustrated hy Bartolozzi. A Zt/e worthy of him ought to be written. " 1779, 1783, 1794 were the worst. THE CURTAIN RISES 37 beg you to avoid every mention of prices, I have done so once before. Pray let me send and be favoured with the acceptance of some baubles. ... I am in the best of humours. I received this morning a line from Lord Exeter who informed me of the Douglas cause being decided in his favour.^ ... I am running about the antiquities from 9 to II with Byres, from 11-12 with Miss A., so you see I gain Horace's happiness, 07nne tulit punctum qui viisciiit utile dulci. . . . Pray let me lay on you a disagreeable task, choose me a handsome pattern for an applicee, have it wrought for me instantaneously, and sent to Rome. I wish an Etrusc vase could be introduced. It must be handsome and rich ; as to its elegance, anything, particu- larly Etrusc, conducted by your taste cannot fail to be elegant. If a contrivance could be hit on for making it less regular and straight, ... I should be pleased. Yours is charming, but rather too much like a lace. . . . The spangles must be caution'd against and well fastened. There have been some fine conversations since the Emperor has been here. The Grand Duke asked after you of me. . . . The E. has lessened the talk about the D. However I like the D. best : more of engaging and gentlemanlike deportment, and more of the world. . . . By the Bye if you can pick up any vases, of which you have duplicates, lay them aside for me, and don't buy them if not well conserv'd and good ; nor many of a shape, a few elegant and good. Adieu my dear Hamilton.'- Certainly Greville proved the Horatian mixer of pleasure with profit ; and since he, like his far franker uncle, was ever complaining of a narrow purse tantalised by the temptations of virtu, that other trite Horatian maxim, Viriute vie involvo, would also admirably fit them. Wrapped in their mantles of Virtu, they both bewailed means far too slender for their tastes. The richer Sir William, indeed, expending in antiquities what he re- trenched elsewhere, seems in his correspondence all debt and Correggio ; while Greville removed to his mansion under pretext of its size being a bargain. P2ach sought ' This eventually enabled 'Old Q.' to succeed to his honours. 2 Morrison MS. 14, Rome, March 1769. 38 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to serve the other, and Greville in his youth persistently charged his uncle to be his dipute} As time proceeded, Sir William with an ailing wife and a buried daughter,^ his nephew ever on his watch-tower for an heiress,^ confided to each other their little gallantries, and peccadilloes also. As for Greville, just as in the case of the ' applicee,' ' con- trivances ' were soon ' hit on ' for making him 'less regular and straight' Already, in 178 1, this solemn frequenter of new Almack's had acquired the Reynolds picture of ' Emily in the character of Thais,' which had been left on Sir Joshua's hands.* His character was that of a free- living formalist, the reverse of austere, but with all austerity's drawbacks. Yet there were some excellent points in this queer com- pound of the Pharisee and the Publican, something between a Charles and a Joseph Surface. If none was more prone to sin with self-righteousness, and to excuse to himself half-shabbiness as unselfish generosity,^ if none could write more glibly of a * good heart,' he was not consciously a hypocrite ; though par excellence the man of taste rather than the man of feeling. He displayed scrupulous honour in all money transac- tions, much dignity and reticence, with grace of demeanour (if not always of behaviour); independence too of mind, and a public-spirited industry that often kept him sitting on im- portant committees six hours at a stretch. He was a stead- fast friend, and the early death of his Pylades, the brilliant Charles Cathcart, was a real blow to him and an irretrievable loss. He was an ideal trustee. He could say with truth, * I am a good jobber for a friend, but an awkward one 1 Cf. Morrison MS. 20, Greville from Vienna to Hamilton, April 1769 2 ' Little Checille,' Morrison MS. 14. Possibly adopted. ' Cf. Morrison MS. 40, December 20, 1774, where Hamilton recommends him a Miss St. George with income of ;iC5000 and nez retroussi. In May 1778 he wanted to marry Lord Granby's daughter. — Morrison MS. 81. * Cf. Morrison MS. 102, April 3, 1781. I am not satisfied that this was the portrait of ' Emily Pott,' alias Coventry. The face is not unlike Lady Hamilton's. In the Complete Works of Si}- Joshua /Reynolds (1824), the picture is alleged to be the portrait of Miss Emily Pott, or Bertie, or Coventry, ' who went to India, where she died.' ^ In 1773, when 'halving' purchases with Hamilton, Greville had written: ' This may be selfish, but I will show you it is not so.' — Morrison MS. 29. THE CURTAIN RISES 39 for myself.'^ He was worthy of his uncle's confidence, and to the last superintended his affairs and those of others with integrity and tact. Nor did he neglect the welfare of Hamilton's tenants at Milford. H was capable of limited disinterestedness as well as of true patriotism. His father's death and his brother's accession to estates and title in 1773 reduced his allowance afresh, and all his resource was needed to repair the deficiency. Socially a disciple of the old-fashioned Chesterfield, and affecting to flout the opinion of a world that he was far from despising, politically he was a trimming Whig, but an unbending supporter of all authority and establishment. He throve on coalitions, and lamented with reason the nearing end of that coalition ministry which was still in power when this chapter opened. Such is an epitome of the man who still holds the soi- disant ' Emily Hart's ' letter in his hands. It is her origin and past that now demand re-investigation. In view of her instinctive independence ^ and her native appetite for glory, the notion of which grew with her expanding horizon, these trivial beginnings are not unimportant, while some of her cousins played a prominent part in the later scenes of her life. Emily (or ' Emy ') Lyon was born on April 26 in 1765, the year of her baptism, unless, without reason, we are to assume her illegitimacy. The Neston parish registers prove the marriage of her parents to have taken place on June 11, 1764. The rumours and fictions about her early adventures, seemingly requiring a longer space than her extreme girlhood affords, have impelled Mr. Jeaffreson and others to antedate her birth by so much as four years. But many references, both in Greville's letters and Hamil- ton's, with other evidence outside them, entirely tally with 1 Morrison MS. 123, Sept. 17S2 — a letter of condolence on the death of the first Lady Hamilton. There are several instances. In one he warned the Russian Ambassador against buying inferior pictures for which he had his master's carte blanche ; and then Greville bought the best cheaply and gave them to him. * In a letter to Sir William Scott, written four months before her death, and excerpted in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905, occurs this sentence: . . . Think what I must feel who was used to give God only knows [how- much], and now to ask.' 40 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the date that I have assigned.^ She was christened ' Emily ' (of which ' Emy ' and not ' Amy,' as has been alleged, is the contraction), though from the 'Emy' she may in childhood have been called ' Amy ' at times. The copy of the baptismal register sent to Greville is incorrect, as will be seen in the note below. Her marriage register, it is true, is signed ' Amy Lyons ' according to the Marylebone clerk's information, but this again seems a natural mis- reading of her rapid and often indistinct handwriting for ' Emy Lyon.' 2 Her father was Henry Lyon, ' Smith of Nesse,' and her mother Mary Kidd of Hawarden, Flintshire. In their marriage register both sign by marks, although her mother soon afterwards became 'a scholar.' Her father died at Neston in the year of her birth ; but there is no vestige of her mother's re-marriage to one ' Doggan ' or ' Doggin,' to which has been attributed her after-name of Mrs. Cadogan from the present period in London to that when she became ' La Signora Madre dell'Ambasciatrice,' and the esteemed friend both of Hamilton and of Nelson. 'Emy' has always been described as an only child, but she seems to have had a brother or half-brother, ' Charles.' Thomas Kidd, an old salt and cousin, writing from Greenwich in 1809, to thank for past and beg for future favours, observes : ' I have to inform you that your brother Charles is in Greenwich College and has been here ^ For the whole subject cf. Note A. of the Appendix. 2 The actual register of baptism in the parish church of Neston, copied this year (1905) by the Vicar, Canon E. C. Turner, is :— ' Emy, dr. of Henry Lyon, Smith of Ness, by Mary his wife. May 12, 1765.' The copy sent to Greville in the above-mentioned letter from ' Emly ' ran : — 'Amy{ly) daughter of Henry Lyon of Ness by Mary his wife, bap. the 12th of May 1765. The above is truly copied from the G. Neston Register by R. Carter, Curate.^ Evidently the ' E' in ' Emy' resembles an 'A,' as it does in the Marylebone Marriage Register. The ' ly ' is added in another hand, and the meaning is to show its correspondence to her signature in the letter. The marriage register of her parents in the Neston parish books is : — 'Henry Lyon and Mary Kidd, June ii, 1764, by banns, by G. Gardener, Curate. X the mark of Henry Lyon. X the mark of Mary Kidd.' The Cottagk at Hawarden where Lady Hamilton's grand- mother LIVED, AND where LaDY HAMILTON STAYED IN CHILDHOOD. From a sketch (after a photograph) by Florence Holms. THE CURTAIN RISES 41 since the 6th inst.';^ but I can find no further trace of this * brother,' nor is there any record of relatives on the father's side. This Thomas Kidd may well have been the son of a William Kidd, 'labourer,' who, as 'widower' in September 1769 in the Hawarden registers, married one 'Mary Pova."- And William Kidd is possibly Lady Hamilton's cousin or uncle, who was at one time a publican, and who used to complain that he was ' never brought up to work.' If this be so, something of the paternal strain seems to have descended to the son, who, in the letter just mentioned, excuses his remissness in calling, as requested, by the insinuating remark that * I declare my small cloaths are scandolous, and my hat has the crown part nearly off' ; while he speaks pointedly of the attentions of a 'Mr. Ingram,' who in turn refers to his 'justifiable character' in 'His Majesty's service,' and suggests that, since both the porter of the west gate and the ' roasting cook ' of the college are infirm and ill, there is a choice of probable promotions awaiting him. In after years it was not only her humble kinsfolk, whom she never forsook, that were to importune Emma for advancements. The Kidds were mostly sailors or labourers. Lady Hamilton's grandmother, with whom in girlhood she often stayed, and whom she always cared for and cherished, dwelt in one of some thatched cottages, two of which still remain. That Mary Lyon, jiee Kidd, was a superior woman, is shown by her after-acquirements. Tradition associates her both with dressmaking and with domestic service. If tradition again is trustworthy, she may have been cook in the household of Lord Halifax, who is also reported to have educated both her and her child. But Lady Hamilton herself, writing to Mr. Bowen of Portman Square (and of Merton)^ in 1802 about Charlotte Nelson's education, declares that her own did not begin till she was seventeen — that is to say, under Greville's auspices, * Morrison MS. 963, Nov. 17. ^ Very soon after his first wife's death, it would appear from tlie registers. Cf. a baptismal register of one ' Francis, d. of William and Mary Kidd, June 19.' ' Morrison MS. 689, October. His tomb is visible in Merton churchyard. 42 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON I have seen none of her mother's letters before 1800, and it is not improbable that mother and daughter began their education together. She was always an energetic house- keeper and a most resourceful home-physician. Her letters to Emma, to George Rose, and others, are neither ill-worded nor ill-spelt. At Naples and Palermo we shall find her visited by the Queen. The King of Naples was in the December of 1798 to call her an 'angel' for her services during the hurricane attending the royal escape to Palermo,^ though he also, if we may trust the Marchioness of Solari, had before dubbed her ' Ruffiana.' ^ The Duke of Sussex highly esteemed her. Nor can the accomplished Miss Cornelia Knight have found her intolerable, for on the return of Nelson, the Hamiltons, and herself to London after the ill-starred continental tour of 1800, she drove straight off and stayed with Mrs. ' Cadogan ' at the hotel in St. James's.^ There is no evidence as to how this homely and trustworthy woman came by her grand name. Her second husband, however, may not be a myth ; although the Marchioness of Solari mentions that ' Codogan ' was the name by which ' Emma's reputed mother ' caused her to be known at Naples before her marriage ; ^ and at any rate it is a singular coincidence that Earl Nelson's companion when he went to Calais to fetch Horatia away, after Lady Hamilton's death in 181 5, was to be a Mr. Henry Cadogan, a relation of the late and well-known Mr. Rothery. Only two sisters of Emma's mother are generally mentioned. Both of these seem also to have risen above their station. The one married a Mr. John Moore,^ after- wards, it would seem, successful in business at Liverpool, but at one time addressed by Emma at the house of a ^ Morrison MS. 370. - Venice under the Yoke of France and Austria, by a Lady of Rank (2 vols., 1S24). In punning allusion also, perhaps, to the rough but ready Cardinal Ruffe. ^ Miss C. Knight's Diaries. ^ Venice mtdcr the Yoke of France and Austria, vol. ii. p. 66. This is not so, however. She was known as ' Hart ' ; cf. Goethe's Italienische Reise, and cf. a letter in which she so signs herself at Naples in 1787, excerpted in Sotheby's catalogue for May 17, 1905, and another of May 25, 1787. * In the Hawarden registers is a baptismal entry of January 15, 1763, * Thos., son of Eph. and Cath. Moore.' THE CURTAIN RISES 43 Mr. Potter in Harley Street. The other was a Mrs. Connor, who had six children, all of them long supported by Lady Hamilton : one of them, Sarah, to be the governess both at Merton and Cranwich, was well educated ; another, Cecilia, became an accomplished singer, and also a (though a less capable) preceptress. Ann, the eldest, and Eliza both rose above their sphere, though they proved most ungrateful ; while Charles, who entered the Navy under Nelson's pro- tection, could write an excellent letter, but unfortunately went mad, for, as Lady Hamilton recorded in a very curious statement regarding four of them, ' there was madness in the family.' ^ Ann's showed itself in eventually asserting that she was Lady Hamilton's daughter, which she certainly was not; indeed, to her must be traced the ridiculous fiction spread by the chronique scandaleuse of the time that Ann, Eliza, and Charles were Greville's three children. Mary, too, was to be popular, and with all her sisters intimate with the whole Nelson and Hamilton family, as well as with Sir William Hamilton's relations.^ Lady Hamilton's mother had also a third sister, Ann, who married 'Richard Reynolds, Whitesmith,' in 1774, and whose daughter Sarah (often called ' Reynalds ') also figures as an educated woman, and a beneficiary of her titled cousin, in the Morrison correspondence. She may further have had another brother or cousin, William, an entry regarding whom and his wife Mary finds place also in the Hawarden parish books ; and there were also the ' Nicolls,' whom, just before her own bankruptcy, Emma is found continuously maintaining with the rest of her connections.^ And finally there remain some traces of a few better-placed family acquaintances, a Mrs. Ladmore and a Mrs. Down- ward.* ^ Morrison MS. 959, Richmond, October 16, 1808. There are many allu- sions to Charles Connor both in this collection and in the Nelson Letters. ^ For these details cf. Morrison MS. passim, and the later chapters of this volume. These Connors who, under that name, or as * Connah ' or ' Conna,' find no less than twenty-eight mentions in the Hawarden registers between 1759 and 1765, were possibly the offspring of 'Charles and Mary Conna of Ferry,' baptisms of whose children under the names Mary, Charles, and Eliza appear in these records. •* Cf. post, chap. xiv. * Cf. Morrison MS. 127, July 17S4. 44 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON When we remember the clever, lively letters that remain of this Connor family, their artistic temperaments, and the way in which they were treated and received, the fairy-tale of Lady Hamilton's conquest over circumstance seems to have extended also to her relations. Nothing can be proved of Emma's childhood but that it was passed at Hawarden in extreme poverty, that she was a madcap,^ and that she blossomed early and fairly into stature and ripeness beyond her age. At sixteen (or per- haps thirteen) she was already a grown woman, which ex- plains the puzzled Greville's inquiry for the register of her baptism. The most ridiculous romances were spread during her lifetime and after it. Hairbreadth escapes and Family Herald love-stories, regardless of facts or dates, adorn the pages of a novel published in the fifties, and professing to be circumstantial;^ while Alexandre Dumas has em- broidered his Souvenirs d'Une Favorite with all the wild scandals of a teeming imagination. The earliest certainty is that at some thirteen years of age she entered the service of Mr. Thomas of Hawarden, the father of a London physician, and brother-in-law of the famous art patron, Alderman Boydell of London. Miss Thomas was the first to sketch Emma while she was their nurse-maid. The drawing survives at Hawarden, and the Thomases always remained her friends. Whether it is possible that the roving Romney may have seen her there must be left to fancy. It is at least a curious fact that she came so early into indirect touch with art. The loose rumour ascribing her departure from Hawarden to the severity of her first master or mistress is entirely without foundation. A far more probable conjecture is that she left Hawarden for London because her mother left also. As is evident from the letter to Greville, already quoted, as well as from Greville's answer, which will soon follow, Mrs. * Cadogan ' was already in some London situation known to and approved of by Greville. ^ Morrison MS. 126, June 22, 1784. 'She {i.e. little Emma] is as wild and thoughtless as somebody when she was a little girl ; so you may guess how that is.' - Nelsoit's Legacy. Jane Powell. THE CURTAIN RISES 45 About the end, then, of 1779 or the beginning of 1780, when Emma was some fifteen years of age, she repaired with her mother to the capital ; and there seems little doubt that she found employment with Dr. Budd, a surgeon of repute, at Chatham Place, near St. James's Market.^ A comrade with her in this service was the talented and refined woman afterwards famed as the actress, Jane Powell, who is not to be confused with the older Harriet Powell, eventually Lady Seaforth. When Sir William and Lady Hamilton returned home in 1800, they attended a performance at Drury Lane, where Emma and her old fellow-servant were the cynosure of an audience ignorant of their former association. When Lady Hamilton was at Southend in the late summer of 1803 she again met her quondam colleague. Pettigrew possessed and quoted a nice letter from her on this occasion.- It is assuredly not among the least of the many marvels attending Emma's progress that an eminent surgeon should have harboured two such belles in his area. And now Apocrypha is renewed. Gossip has it that she served in a shop ; that she became parlour-maid elsewhere, and afterwards the risky ' companion ' of a vicious ' Lady of Quality.' The Prince Regent, who was years afterwards to solicit and be repulsed by her, used to declare that he recollected her selling fruit with wooden pattens on her feet ; '' but he also used to insist, it must be recollected, on his own presence at the battle of Waterloo. It was said, too, that she had been a model for the Academy students. For such canards there is no certainty, and for many rumours there is slight foundation. But there is a shade of ' Pettigrew had known Dr. Budd, and his tiaditions in this regard must be respected. - Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 594. It runs as follows : — 'Southend. Dear Lady Hamilton, — I cannot fnrliear writing a line to inform your Ladyship I am at this place, and to tell you how much your absence is regretted by all ranks of people. Would to Heaven you were here to enliven this at present dull scene. I have performed one night, and have promised to play six, hut unless the houses arc better, must decline it. Please to remember me most kindly to your mother and every one at Mcrton. — I am, dear Lady Hamilton, yourohlig'd Tank Powell.' ■■• Memoir a of Madame Le Brun. 46 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON evidence to show that somewhere about 1781 she was in the service of the manager of Drury Lane Theatre, Sheridan's father-in-law, Thomas Linley the elder, and that she suddenly quitted it from grief at the death of his young son, a naval lieutenant,^ whom she had nursed. Angelo in his Reminiscences has drawn the pathetic picture of his chance meeting with her in Rathbone Place, a dejected figure clad in deep mourning ; he has added an earlier encounter and an allusion to her brief sojourn with the ' Abbess ' of Arlington Street, Mrs. Kelly, who may be identical with the ' Lady of Quality.' I f so, destitution must have caused her downfall. Hitherto this girl of sixteen, so beautiful that passers-by turned spellbound to look at her, had rejected all overtures of evil. Writing to Romney after her marriage, in a letter which seems to imply that she had known him even before her acquaintance with Greville, Lady Hamilton thus recalls her past : ' You have seen and discoursed with me in my poorer days, you have known me in my poverty and prosperity, and I had no occasion to have lived y^;' years in poverty and distress if I had not felt something of virtue in my mind. Oh, my dear friend, for a time I own through distress my virtue was vanquished, but my sense of virtue was not overcome.' ^ Some three years earlier, when she had insisted on accompanying Sir William on a shooting expedition, her answer to his remon- strances about hardship was that for years she had been accustomed to rough lodging. From Angelo's story it would appear that her earliest admirer was Fetherstonehaugh, who will soon cross the scene, and who in her later years was to emerge friendly and even respectful. But the name of her first betrayer has been so constantly given as that of ' Captain,' afterwards Rear-Admiral, John Willet-Payne, man of fashion, member of Parliament, and eventually treasurer of Greenwich Hospi- tal, that the story cannot be wholly discredited. Tradition has added that she first encountered him in a bold attempt to rescue a cousin from being impressed into the service. ^ Angelo (Hamilton's godson) gives the name in his Reviiniscences as Samuel Linley. He died in 1781. Thomas, the younger, died in 1778. 2 Morrison MS. 199, Caserta, December 20, 1791. THE CURTAIN RISES 47 This may or may not be. The sole sidelight, afforded by an unnoticed letter from Nelson of 1801, which proves that she had confided much of her past to her hero, more probably refers to Greville : ' That other chap did throw away the most precious jewel that God ever sent on this earth.' ^ Her relations with the Captain can scarcely have lasted more than about two months. If she was his Ariadne, he sailed away in haste, nor does he darken her path again. It was perhaps on his sudden departure that this lonely girl fell in with Dr. Graham, the empiric and showman. How she met him is unknown : that he was anything to her but an employer has never been suggested ; that he ever employed her at all rests merely on a story, so accredited by Pettigrew, who had known several of her early contemporaries, that one can hardly doubt it. The sole evidence that she ever ' posed ' for him is to be found in Greville's reply to Emma's appeal already cited : in it Greville speaks of the last time you came to ' G.,' which Mr. Jeaffreson guesses to mean ' Graham.' It may, however, at once be noted that his living advertisement of the goddess of health and beauty, ' Hebe Vestina,' did not figure in his museum of specifics until 1782, when he had removed from the Adelphi to Pall Mall, and had there opened his 'Temple of Hymen' in the eastern part of Schomberg House, the western side of which had been leased to Gainsborough by the eccentric artist and adventurer, Jack Astley.- The strong probability is that Emma was first engaged by him as a singer in those miniature mock-oratorios and cantatas, composed by him- self, which played such a part in his miscellany, and were supposed to attune the souls of the faithful ; while her ex- pressive beauty may have soon tempted him to exhibit her as the draped statue of ' Hygeia,' or Goddess of Health, though certainly not as his later tableau vivant of Hebe Vestina.'^ ^ Morrison MS. 539, March 6, 'at night,' 1801. '■^ Cf. a curious satire, // Couvito Amoroso, etc. London, 1782. * Since writing this passage I find that Angelo positively denies that she ever figured in Graham's show, but he does not enter into dates, and his easy anecdotes are hardly historical. 48 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Dr. Graham was no common impostor. He belongs to the class of charlatan that unites pseudo-mysticism and pseudo-piety to real skill — in short, a High Priest of Pom- peian Isis, He was no mere conjurer ; he effected genuine cures besides dealing in quack remedies. At this time he was about forty years of age. He may have qualified in Edinburgh University; he had certainly travelled in France and America, and received testimonials from personages at home and abroad. He knew his classics, which he quoted profusely in those curious ' lectures ' combining puff with literary, satirical, scriptural, philanthropic, and scientific allusion. His brother had married the ' historian,' Mrs. Catharine Macaulay, who often figures in his florid catalogues of cures. That authoress is depicted in mezzo- tints as a sickly-looking lady, pen in hand, with a row of her volumes before her, trying apparently to draw inspiration from the ceiling. He was never tired of assuring the public that she was own sister to ' Mr. John Saw- bridge, M.P. for London,' He posed as a sort of prayerful alchemist, eradicating and healing at once the causes of vice, and its consequences. His advertisements are a queer union of cant earnestness, travestied truth, sensible non- sense, humour and the lack of it, effrontery and belief — especially in himself. After he had closed his costly and ruinous London exhibitions, he turned 'Christian Philo- sopher' at Bath and Newcastle, anticipated the modern open-air cure, ' paraphrased ' the Lord's Prayer for the public, the Book of Wisdom for the Prince of Wales, and hastened to lay on the pillow of the suffering George III. one of his numerous 'prayers.' His speciality in 1780 (and throughout his career) was the then derided but now accepted electricity^ and mud-baths. By their means he claimed to restore and preserve beauty, to prolong exist- ence, to enable a decayed generation to repair its losses by a vigorous, comely, and healthful progeny. He had opened a pinchbeck palace enriched with symbolical paint- ings, gilt statues, and coloured windows, where up to ten 1 This was also a hobby of Sir W. Hamilton's. Cf. Morrison MS. 60, where in December 1775 he exhibits 'electric experiments' before their Sicilian Majesties. THE CURTAIN RISES 49 o'clock nightly he advertised his wares to the sound of sweet music, in his ' Temple of ^^isculapius ' at the Royal Terrace, Adelphi. His pamphlets, sermons, hymns, exhortations, and satires, were rained on the town.^ In one of these pieces of fulsome reclame he describes his museum of elixirs as Emma may have viewed it in 1780 or 178 1. Over the porch stood the inscription ' Templum ^sculapio Sacrum.' There were three gorgeously decorated rooms with galleries above, and pictures of heroes and kings, including Alfred the Great. Crystal glass pillars enshrined the costly electrical apparatus for reviving youth and strength. The third chamber was the tinsel 'Temple of Apollo' with its magnetic 'celestial bed,' with its gilt dragons, overarching ' Pavilion,' and inscription, ' Dolorifica res est si quis homo dives nullum habet domi suae successorem.' ' But on the right of the Temple,' he says, Ms strikingly seen a beauti- ful figure of Fecundity,' holding her cornucopia and sur- rounded by reclining children ; and above all, an 'electric' 'celestial glory,' which, mellowed by the stained windows, shed a dim and solemn light. Strains of majestic melody filled the air ; and here also were sold his ' Nervous Balsam ' and ' Electrical .^ther' ; while in the mornings this reverse of 'seraphic' doctor punctually attended consultations in the dwelling-rooms adjoining.^ Whether such ambrosial tomfoolery yielded Emma an intermittent livelihood at all, and whether before she loved Willet-Payne or after, remains doubtful ; the latter is more probable. The blatant novelty-monger offered prizes for emblematic pictures, and it is possible that Tresham, or even his friend Romney, might have been pressed into his service. It may well be, too, that here the young blood and baronet. Sir Henry Fetherstonehaugh, became her admirer.^ As we see him in his letters some thirty years afterwards, this worthy appears as a silly old ' Most of these I have read. For the whole subject of. Appendix, Note B. - ' A Sketch or short description of Dr. (iraham's Medical Apparatus, erected about the beginning of the year 1780 in his house on the Royal Terrace, Adelphi, in London, 17S0.' ^ I Ic may also have been the riotous ' Sir Harry ' on the grand tour, whom Hamilton had to extricate from scrapes at Naples in the spring of 1777. Cf. Morrison MS. 81. 50 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON beau and sportsman, indulging in compliments pompous as his political reflections, and interlarding his correspondence with superfluous French. In his old age he educated and married a most worthy peasant girl, and brought her sister (also educated in France) to reside with them at Up Park, while from Lady Fetherstonehaugh the estate passed into that sister's possession.^ Up Park (like Willet-Payne) was fraught with dreams of the fleet, for from its lofty position on the steep Sussex Downs it commands a prospect of Portsmouth and the Isle of Wight. Here this erring and struggling girl for a very brief space in 1781 became the mistress of the mansion and its roystering owner, both Nimrod and Macaroni. Here she ' witched the world with noble horsemanship,' for she was always a fearless rider. Here, among rakes, she could not rest, as she sighed for the artistic admiration which her tableau vivant in the Adelphi had already aroused among clever Bohemians, Here, perhaps in despair, she became so reckless and capricious, so hopeless of that peace of mind and happy innocence- which, ten years later, she joyfully assured Romney had been restored to her by marriage, that she was ejected and cast adrift at the very moment when she found herself soon to become a mother. That she was ' a girl in reall distres ' for the first time (and not, as has often been presumed, for the second) will be shown when we come to 'little Emma,' and it is here evidenced by her entreaty that Greville would spare her mother any knowledge of this fresh and crushing blow. At Up Park, most probably, Greville had first met her in the autumn of 1 781, on one of those shooting-parties in great houses which he always frequented more from fashion than amusement. She had doubtless contrasted him with Sir Harry's stupid and commonplace acquaintances. Greville always took real interest in people who interested him at all, and at least he never acted below his profes- sions. He was nobly bred, considerate, and composed ; he was good-looking, prudent, and ever liberal — in advice. No ' From information kindly given by the veteran Admiral Sir E. G. Fanshawe. ' Morrison MS. 199. The letter is quoted /<7j/, chap. vi. THE CURTAIN RISES 51 wonder that his condescension seemed ideal to this girl of sixteen, who had lost yet coveted self-respect; who had al- ready suffered from degrading experience, and yet had ever ' felt something of virtue ' in her ' mind.' He had afterwards (as his letter will show) befriended and scolded her head- strong sallies, though his warnings must have passed un- heeded. On her retirement in disgrace and despair to her loving grandmother at Hawarden, he doubtless gave her the franked and addressed papers enabling her to communicate with him should need compel her. Just as evidently, she had written and been touched with the kind tone of his answer. It seems obvious also from Greville's coming reply that, as was her way, she would neither cajole Sir Harry into renewed favour nor be dependent on anything but sincere kindness. But at last she was trembling on a precipice from the brink of which she besought him to rescue her. To him and to Fetherstonehaugh she was known as Emily Hart ; nor, in spite of Greville's advice, would she, or did she, change that name till her wedding. Whence it was assumed is unknown. In the Harvey family there lingered a tradition that ' Emma Hart' was born at South- well, near Biggleswade, and with her mother had served at Ickwell Bury, where she was first seen and painted by Romney. But this is wholly unfounded, though Romney appears to have painted portraits in that house, and it is curious that, about forty years ago, one Robert Hart — still living — was a butler in their service and professed to be in some way related to Lady Hamilton.^ A guess might be hazarded that ' Hart ' was derived from the musician of that name who visited Hamilton's house at Naples in 1786 as her old acquaintance. Not one of the parish registers offers any solution through the names of her kindred. The 'Emily' became Emma through the artists and the poets, through Romney and Hayley. It is ' Emly Hart's' pleading and pathetic note, then, that ' Through Miss Harvey's kindness I comniunicaled with him, but wilhout success. If the Lord Halifax legend had the least likelihood it might be fancied that ' llartc,' Chesterfield's poet and philosopher, suggested the uoin-de-fnish-e. 52 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Charles Greville still holds in his fastidious hands on this winter morning. With a glance at the recovered monkey and the repaired Venus, and possibly with a pang at the thought of the plight to which this ' piece of modern virtu ' ^ was reduced, he sits down most deliberately to compose his answer. How deliberately, is shown by the fact that of this letter he kept a ' pressed copy ' done in the ink just invented by James Watt ; it was a minute of semi-official importance. The letter is long, and extracts will suffice ; it will be gathered that he was more prig than profligate, and he had evidently formed the delightful design of being her mentor: — ' My dear Emily, — I do not make apologies for Sir H.'s behaviour to you, and altho' I advised you to deserve his esteem by your good conduct, I own I never expected better from him. It was your duty to deserve good treat- ment, and it gave me great concern to see you imprudent the first time you came to G., from the country, as the same conduct was repeated when you was last in town, I began to despair of your happiness. To prove to you that I do not accuse you falsely, I only mention five guineas and half a guinea for coach. But, my dear Emily, as you seem quite miserable now, I do not mean to give you uneasiness, but comfort, and tell you that I will forget your faults and bad conduct to Sir H. and myself, and will not repent my good humor if I find that you have learned by experience to value yourself, and endeavor to preserve your friends by good conduct and affection. I will now answer your last letter. You tell me you think your friends look cooly on you, it is therefore time to leave them : but it is necessary for you to decide some points before you come to town. You are sensible that for the next three months your situa- tion will not admit of a giddy life, if you wished it. . . . After you have told me that Sir H. gave you barely money to get to your friends, and has never answered one letter since, and neither provides for you nor takes any notice of you, it might appear laughing at you to advise you to make Sir H. more kind and attentive. I do not think a great 1 Morrison MS. 136, March 10, 1785. On April 3rd of the year 1781 he had written to his uncle, ' I go on, more bit by virLu than ever.' THE CURTAIN RISES 53 deal of time should be lost, for I have never seen a woman clever enough to keep a man who was tired of her. But it is a great deal more for me to advise you never to see him again, and to write only to inform him of your determina- tion. You must, however, do either the one or the other. . . . You may easily see, my dearest Emily, why it is absolutely necessary for this point to be completely settled before I can move one step. If you love Sir H. you should not give him up. . . . But besides this, my Emily, I would not be troubled with your connexions (excepting your mother) and with Sir H.('s) friends for the universe. My advice then is to take a steady resolution. ... I shall then be free to dry up the tears of my lovely Emily and to give her comfort. If you do not forfeit my esteem perhaps my Emily may be happy. You know I have been so by avoid- ing the vexation which frequently arises from ingratitude and caprice. Nothing but your letter and your distress could incline me to alter my system, but remember I never will give up my peace, or continue my connexion one moment after my confidence is betray'd. If you should come to town and take my advice . . . You should part with your maid and take another name. By degrees I would get you a new set of acquaintances, and by keeping your own secret, and no one about you having it in their power to betray you, I may expect to see you respected and admired. Thus far as relates to yourself. As to the child ... its mother shall obtain it kindness from me, and it shall never want. I inclose you some money ; do not throw it away. You may send some presents when you arrive in town, but do not be on the road without some money to spare in case you should be fatigued and wish to take your time. I will send Sophy ^ anything she wishes for. . . . God bless you, my dearest lovely girl ; take your determination and let me hear from you once more. Adieu, my dear Emily.' - ' A sister or a friend ? There exists an engraving which is styled ' Lady Hamilton and her sister.' They are dancing the Tarantella. But her com- panion is probably Mrs. Griifer, or ' Giulia,' or one of the innumerable dependants on Sir William, often mentioned by Nelson. 2 Morrison MS. 114, January 10, 1782. The letter has a passage doubting the child's paternity, which was omitted because the quick succession from Payne to Fetherstonehaugh would of itself imply it. 54 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON And with this salutation Greville folds his paper with precision and addresses it, in the complacent belief that it is irresistible. Truly an impeccable shepherd of lost sheep, a prodigious preacher to runagates continuing in scarceness ; a Mr. Barlow- Rochester with a vengeance ! And yet real goodwill underlies the guardedness of his disrespectable sermon. As, however, he sinks back in his chair, and plumes himself on the communique, it never strikes him for an instant that this wild and unfortunate girl is quite capable of distancing her tutor and of swaying larger destinies than his. His main and constant object was never to appear ridiculous. So absurd a forecast would have irretrievably grotesqued him in his own eyes and in those of his friends. His attitude towards women appears best from his reflections nearly five years later, which read like a page of La Rochefoucauld tied up with red tape :— *. . . With women, 1 observe they have only resource in Art, and there is to them no interval between plain ground and the precipice ; and the springs of action are so much in the extreme of sublime and low, that no absolute dependence can be given by men. It is for this reason I always have anticipated cases to prepare their mind to reasonable conduct, and it will always have its impression, altho' they will fly at the mere mention of truth if it either hurts their pride or their intrest, and the latter has much more rarely weight with a young woman than the former ; and therefore it is like playing a trout to keep up pride to make them despise meaness, and not to retain the bombast which would render the man who gave way to it the air of a dupe and a fool. It requires much conduct to steer properly, but it is to be done when a person is handsome, and has a good heart ; but to do it zvithout hurtifig their feelings requires constant attention ; it is not in the moment of irritation or passion that advice has effect; it is in the moment of reason and good nature. It reduces itself to simple subjects ; and when a woman can[not ?] see more than one alternative of comfort or despair^ of attention and desertion^ they can take a line' ^ 1 Morrison MS. 156, November (?) 1786. THE CURTAIN RISES 55 Thus Greville — the prudent psychologist of womankind and the nice moralist of the immoral. His metaphor of the 'trout' must have appealed to that keen fisherman, his ' dear Hamilton.' Greville angled for ' disinterested ' hearts with a supple rod. His ' system ' was to attach friend- ship rather than to rivet affection ; to ' play ' a woman's heart in the quick stream of credulous emotion past the perilous eddies of headlong impulse with the bait of self- esteem, till it could be safely landed in a basket, to be afterwards transferred for the fish's own benefit to a friend. If the trout refused thus to be landed, it must be dropped into the depths of its own froward will ; but the sportsman could at least console himself by the thought that, as sportsman, he had done his duty and observed the rules of his game. Greville was already contemplating a less expen- sive shrine for his minerals and old masters. Air fresher than that of Portman Square ^ might agree better with the monkey, and a light purse proverbially makes a heavy heart. He must be left calculating his chances, while his Dulcinea books places in the Chester coach, weeps for joy, and kisses her Don Quixote's billet with impetuous gratitude. ^ In September 1784 he wrote to Hamilton, 'I have my house yet on my hands.' — Morrison MS. I2i. He was not quit of it till the close of 1784. CHAPTER III 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER OF EDGWARE ROW' March 1782 — Atigust 1784 A GIRLISH voice, fresh as the spring morning on Padding- ton Green outside, with its rim of tall elms, and clear as the warbling of their birds, rings out through the open window with its bright burden of ' Banish sorrow until to-morrow.'^ The music-master has just passed through the little garden-wicket, the benefactor will soon return from town, and fond Emma will please him by her progress. Nature smiles without and within ; ' Mrs. Cadogan ' bustles over the spring-cleaning below, and to- morrow the radiant housewife will take her shilling's- worth of hackney coach as far as Romney's studio in Cavendish Square. She is very happy ; it is almost as if she were a young bride ; perchance, who knows, one day she may be Greville's wife. In her heart she is so now ; and yet at times that hateful past will haunt her. It shall be buried with the winter ; * I will have it so,' as she was to write but two years later.'^ And is it not ' Spring-time, the only pretty ring time, When birds do sing hey ding a-ding a-ding'? Edgware Row a hundred and twenty-three years ago was the reverse of what it looks to-day. Its site, now a network of slums, was then a country prospect. It fronted the green sward of a common, abutting on the ^ This was one of the songs that Emma brought with her to Naples. Cf. Nelson Letters, ii. p. 139. 2 Morrison MS. 128, July 3, 1784. .06 p 9 t 1 ^ ^^ ^9hH *•*- ^ tifM Bi HHHWl ■iihiiiiiiiiiii "'■^ - ■*^i?!SSS8f PaUUINGION GRKKN and Clll'Ri II From an olil fitiitl. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 57 inclosure of a quaint old church,^ in a vault of which, when the crowning blow fell, Lady Hamilton was to lay the remains of her devoted mother. That church had for many years been associated with artists, singers, and musicians, British and foreign. Here in March 1733 the apprentice Hogarth had wedded Jane Thornhill, his master's daughter. Here lay buried Matthew Dubourg, the court violinist ; and Emma could still read his epitaph : — 'Tho' sweet as Orpheus thou couldst bring Soft pleadings from the trembling string, Unmoved the King of Terror stands Nor owns the magic of thy hands,' Here, too, lay buried George Barret, 'an eminent painter and worthy man.' Here later were to lie LoUi, the violinist ; the artists Schiavonetti and Sandby ; NoUekens and Banks the sculptors; Alexander Geddes the scholar; Merlin the mechanic ; Caleb Whiteford the wine-merchant wit; and his great patron, John Henry Petty, Marquis of Lansdowne, who descends to history as the Earl of Shelburne. Here once resided the charitable Denis Chirac, jeweller to Queen Anne. Here, too, were voluntary schools and the lying-in hospital. The canal, meander- ing as far as Bolingbroke's Hayes in one direction, and Lady Sarah Child's Norwood in the other, was not finished till 1 801, when Lady Hamilton may have witnessed its opening ceremony. Greville, still saddled with his town abode, at once econo- mised. The Edgware Row establishment was modest in both senses of the word. He brought reputable friends to the house, and a few neighbouring ladies seem to have called. The household expenses did not exceed some;^ioo a year. Emma's own yearly allowance was only about ^30, and she lived well within it. Her mother was a clever manager, whose services the thrifty prodigal appreciated. The existing household accounts in Emma's handwriting only start in 1784, but from them some idea may be ' Replaced in 17S7 by the present structure. 58 EMMA. LADY HAMILTON formed of what they were in the two years preceding. They belong to the Hamilton papers inherited by Greville in 1803, and they were evidently deemed worthy of preser- vation both by nephew and uncle ; here is a specimen : — Emma Hart. The Day Account Book. Oct. 27, 1784. Money paid, etc. 27th Oct. Baker's bill, one week, . . jT^o 4 II )> ») Butter bill, one week. 0 5 I )) J) Butcher, . 0 7 8^ jj )5 Wood, 0 I 0 28th >J Pidgeons, . 0 2 0 29th )1 Mold candles, . 0 2 3 >» >J Gloves, 0 I 6 >> )» Letters, 0 0 4 )) 5> Coach, 0 1 0 )> )) Apples, 0 0 2h )) )) Poor ma?i, . 0 0 0^ > J )> Mangle, 0 0 5 30th 5) Tea, . 0 12 0 >> )) Sugar, 0 9 9 >> ») Butcher, 0 5 4 J5 )) Scotch gaize. 0 0 6 31st )> Porter, 0 0 2 5> >> Eggs, ^ . 0 0 4 I St Nov. Magazines, 0 I 0 5) )) Cotton and needles, 0 0 9 )> n Coach, 0 I 0 M >> Baker's bill. 0 4 II J> >) Butter bill, 0 5 0 )> >> Milk, 0 2 3 )> M Gardener, . 0 2 0 2nd )J Butcher, 0 2 6 U >> I Sack of coals, . 0 3 6 >» >) Oysters, 0 0 8 JJ >) Porter, 0 0 2 >) )) Eggs, 0 0 4 )) 3rd )) Handkerchiefs, . Stockings, . Mrs. Hackwood, 0 0 4 1 10 2 10 12 61 > Cf. Morrison MS., Appendix A. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 59 The 'Poor Man \d! is a pretty touch, and Greville must have scolded her for it, as it does not recur; 'Mrs. Hack- wood ' was her milliner, and continued to be so throughout the coming Neapolitan days. It is clear from these accounts that all was now ' retrenchment and reform '; that all was not plenty, is equally apparent. But Emma was more than satisfied with her lot. Had not her knight- errant (or erring) dropped from heaven ? From the first she regarded him as a superior being, and by 1784 she came to love him with intense tenderness ; indeed she idealised him as much as others were afterwards to idealise her. All was not yet, however, wholly peace. Her char- acter was far from being ideal, quite apart from the cir- cumstances which, by comparison, she viewed as almost conjugal. Her petulant temper remained unquelled long after her tamer undertook to ' break it in,' and there were already occasional 'scenes' against her own interest. Yet how soon and warm-heartedly she repented may be gathered from her letters two years onwards, when she was sea- bathing at Park Gate : ' So, my dearest Greville,' pleads one of them, ' don't think on my past follies, think on my good, little as it has been.' And, before, 'Oh ! Greville, when I think on your goodness, your tender kindness, my heart is so full of gratitude that I want words to express it. But I have one happiness in vew, which I am determined to practice, and that is eveness of temper and stead[i]ness of mind. For endead I have thought so much of your amiable goodness when you have been tried to the utmost, that I will, endead I will manege myself, and try to be like Greville [!]. Endead I can never be like him. But I will do all I can towards it, and I am sure you will not desire more. I think if the time would come over again, I would be differant. But it does not matter. There is nothing like bying expearance. I may be happyer for it hereafter, and I will think of the time coming and not of the past, except to make comparrasons, to shew you what alterations there is for the best. . . . O Greville ! think on me with kindness ! Think on how many happy days weeks and years — I hope — we may yett pass. . . . And endead, did you but know how much I love you, you wou'd freely for- 6o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON give me any passed quarrels. For I now suffer from them, and one line from you vvou'd make me happy. . . . But how am I to make you amends ? . . . I will try, I will do my utmost ; and I can only regrett that fortune will not put it in my power to make a return for all the kindness and goodness you have showed me.' ^ Conscious of growing gifts, she had chafed by fits and starts at the seclusion of her home — for home it was to her, in her own words, ' though never so homely.' On one occasion (noted by Pettigrew and John Romney too sub- stantially to admit of its being fiction) ^ Greville took her to Ranelagh, and was annoyed by her bursting into song before an applauding crowd. His displeasure so affected her that on her return she doffed her finery, donned the plainest attire, and, weeping, entreated him to retain her thus or be quit of her. This episode was the source of Romney's picture ' The Seamstress.' ^ The accounts omit any mention of amusements, and it must have been Greville alone who (rarely) treated her. She may have seen ' Coxe's Museum,' and the 'balloonists ' Lunardi and Sheldon, the Italian at the Pantheon, the Briton in Foley Gardens.* She may have been present, too, when in the new ' Marylebone Gardens ' Signor Torre gave one of his firework displays of Mount Etna in eruption.^ If so, how odd must she afterwards have thought it, that her husband was to be the leading authority on Italian and Sicilian volcanoes ! But what at once amazed Greville — the paragon oi nil admirari — was the transformation that she seriously set herself to achieve. ' She does not,' observed this economist of ease three years later, ' wish for much society, but to retain two or three creditable acquaintances in the neighbourhood she has avoided every appearance of ^ Morrison MS. 126, June 25, 1784. - They are confirmed by a passage in one of Greville's letters immediately to be quoted, and which I have there italicised. " Pettigrew (p. 600) says, *in a plain cottage dress.' John Romney in his Life says that she robed herself as 'a lady's maid,' and told Romney of the Ranelagh incident. If the costume were really a lady's maid's, this would account for Romney's portrait of her in that character, which may have given rise to the Ickwell Bury tradition. * Morrison MS. 131. ^ 'Lyson%'s Environs of London, 'Marylebone.' 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 6i giddiness, and prides herself on the neatness of her person and the good order of her house ; these are habits/ he comments, 'both comfortable and convenient tome. She has vanity and likes admiration ; but she connects it so much with her desire of appearing prudent, that she is more pleas' d with accidental admiration than that of crowds which now distress her. In short, this habit, of three or four years' acquiring, is not a caprice, but is easily to be con- tinued. . . .' ^ ' She never has wished for an improper acquaintance,' he adds a month later. ' She has dropt everyone she thought I could except against, and those of her own choice have been in a line of prudence and plain- ness which, tho' I might have wished for, I could not have proposed to confine her [to].' ^ Among the ' reputable ' acquaintances were his brother and future executor, Colonel the Honourable Robert Fulke- Greville, some of his kinsmen the Cathcarts, a Colonel Hartley who was to remain friendly in Naples, the Honourable Heneage Legge, whom we shall find meeting her just before her marriage, and oftener the artist Gavin Hamilton, Sir William's namesake and kinsman, who at once put Emma on his ' list of favourites,' reminding him, as she did, of a Roman beauty that he had once known, but superior to her, he said, in the lines of her beautiful and uncommon mouth.-^ Her main recreation, besides her study to educate herself,* were those continual visits to Romney, which indeed assisted it. His Diaries contain almost three hundred records of 'Mrs. Hart's' sittings during these four years, most of them at an early hour, for Emma, except in illness, was never a late riser. One portrait of her, unmen- tioned in our previous list, represents her reading the Gazette with a startled expression. It may well have been painted from memory shortly after she left England in March 1786, and refer to the attempt by Margaret Nicholson in the August of that year on the life of the King. ' While,' 1 Morrison IMS. 137, May 5, 1785. = Ibid. 138. ^ Ibid. 139, Nov. II, 1785. * ' Her only resources,' writes John Romney, ' were reading and music at home, and sitting for pictures.' In the Accounts arc regular entries of ' Magazines. ' 62 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON remarks the sententious John Romney, ' she lived under Greville's protection, her conduct was in every way correct, except only in the unfortunate situation in which she hap- pened to be placed by the concurrence of peculiar circum- stances such as might perhaps in a certain degree be admitted as an extenuation. . . . Here is a young female of an artless and playful character, of extraordinary Elegance and symmetry of form, of a most beautiful coun- tenance glowing with health and animation, turned upon the wide world. ... In all Mr. Romney's intercourse with her she was treated with the utmost respect, and her demeanour fully entitled her to it.' He adds that she ' sat ' for the ' face ' merely and * a slight sketch of the attitude,' and that in the ' Bacchante ' he painted her countenance alone ; while Hayley, in his Life of the painter, speaks of ' the high and constant admiration ' with which Romney contemplated not only the ' personal ' but the ' mental endowments of this lady, and the gratitude he felt for many proofs of her friendship,' as expressed in his letters. ' The talents,' he continues, ' which nature bestowed on the fair Emma, led her to delight in the two kindred arts of music and painting ; in the first she acquired great practical ability ; for the second she had exquisite taste, and such expressive powers as could furnish to an historical painter an inspiring model for the various characters either delicate or sublime. . . . Her features, like the language of Shakespeare, could exhibit all the gradations of every passion with a most fascinating truth and felicity of ex- pression. Romney delighted in observing the wonderful command she possessed over her eloquent features.' He called her his ' inspirer.' ^ To Romney, as we have already seen, she ' first opened her heart.' At Romney's she met those literary and artistic lights that urged her native intelligence into imitation. A sketch by Romney of his studio displays her seated as his model for the 'Spinstress' by her spinning-wheel. A figure entering and smiling is Greville ; of two others seated at a table, the one appeal- 1 Cf. Hayley's letter to her from Felpham of May 17, 1804, cited later in this work, and given by Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 596, which proves her to have been a prompter and suggester as well as a tenderer. CJ! a: "I i>' ■■^ a"? ?=; "^ 5 5S • -5 w - t*. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 63 ing to her would seem to be Hayley, to whom she always gratefully confessed her obligations. William Hayley, the ' Hermit ' of Eartham, the close ally both of Romney and Cowper, must have been far more interesting in his conversation than his books, though his Triumphs of Temper created a sensation now difficult to understand. He was a clever, egotistical eccentric, who successively parted from two wives with whom he yet con- tinued to correspond in affectionate friendship. Curiously enough, Hayley's rhymed satirical comedies ^ are much the best of his otherwise stilted verses. He must have remem- bered Hamilton and Greville when, in one of them, he makes ' Mr. Beril ' account for his ownership of a lovely Greek statue : ' I owe it to chance, to acknowledge the truth, And a princely and brave Neapolitan youth, Whom I luckily saved in a villainous strife From the dagger of jealousy aimed at his life' : and when his ' Bijou ' ironically observes to ' Varnish ': ' I protest your remark is ingenious and new. You hav^e gusto in morals as well as virtu' : His unfamiliar sonnet on Romney's 'Cassandra' may be here cited, since it may have suggested to Greville his estimate of Emma — ' piece of modern virtu': ' Ye fond idolaters of ancient art, Who near Parthenope with curious toil, Forcing the rude sulphureous rocks to part, Draw from the greedy earth her buried spoil Of antique entablature ; and from the toil Of time restoring some fair form, acquire A fancied jewel, know 'tis but a foil To this superior gem of richer fire. In Romney's tints behold the Trojan maid. See beauty blazing in prophetic ire. From palaces engulphed could earth retire, And show thy works, Apelles, undecay'd, E'en thy Campaspe would not dare to vie With the wild splendour of Cassandra's eye.' ^ The Happy Prescription (17S4) and The Two Connoisseur!: are brilliant vers lie sociite. For Horace Walpole's poor account of his authorship, cf. Letters, vol. viii. pp. 235, 236, 251. 64 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON In a late letter to Lady Hamilton the poet assures her that an unpublished ode was wholly inspired by her, and there are traces of her influence even in his poor tragedies. But since 'Serena' influenced her often, it may be of interest to single out a few lines from the Triumphs of Temper (composed some years before its author first met her) as likelier to have arrested her attention than his triter commonplaces about ' spleen ' and ' cheerfulness ': ' Free from ambitious pride and envious care, To love and to be loved was all her prayer.' 'Th' imperishable wealth of sterling love.' . . . She's everything by starts and nothing long. But in the space of one revolving hour Flies thro all states of poverty and power. All forms on whom her veering mind can pitch, Sultana, Gipsy, Goddess, nymph, and witch. At length, her soul with Shakespeare's magic fraught, The wand of Ariel fixed her roving thought.' And ' But mild Serena scom'd the prudish play To wound warm love with frivolous delay ; Nature's chaste child^ not Affectation's slave, The heart she meant to give, she frankly gave.^ The August of 1782 brought about an event decisive for Emma's future — the death of the first Lady Hamilton, the Ambassador's marriage with whom in 1757 had been mainly one of convenience, though it had proved one also of com- fort and esteem.^ She was a sweet, tranquil soul of rapt holiness, what the Germans call ^ Eine schdne Seele,' and she worshipped the very earth that her light-hearted husband, far nearer to it than she was, trod on. He had set out as a young captain of foot, who, in his own words, had ' known ^ Cf. his own avowal, Morrison MS. 95, where he tells Greville : * You have been acquainted with beauty enough to know that that alone cannot afford lasting happiness. A disagreeable rich Devil, the Devil himself could not have tempted me to marry, but I have realy \_stc'\ found a lasting comfort in having married (something against my inclination) a virtuous, good-tempered woman, with a little independent fortune, to which we cou'd fly shou'd all other depen- dencies fail, and live decently without being obliged to any one.' 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 65 the pinch of poverty' ; but during the whole twenty-five years of their union she had never once reproached him, and had dedicated to him all 'that long disease' she called 'her life.' So far, though intimate with the young Sicilian King and friendly with the Queen, Hamilton had weighed little in diplomacy. In a sprightly letter to the Earl of Dartmouth some six years earlier,^ he observes : 'It is singular but certainly true that I am become more a ministre de famille at this court than ever were the ministers of France, Spain, and Vienna. Whenever there is a good shooting-party H.S. Majesty is pleased to send for me, and for some months past I have had the honour of dining with him twice or three times a week, nay sometimes I have breakfasted, dined, and supped ... in their private party without any other minister.'- He next descants on his exceptional opportunities of helping the English in Naples. He hits off a certain Lady Boyd among them as ' Like Mr. Wilkes, but she has [such] a way of pushing forward that face of hers and filling every muscle of it with good humour, that her homeliness is forgot in a moment ' ; and he concludes with the usual complaint that — unlike his pre- decessor, Sir William Lynch — he has not yet been made 'Privy Councillor.' 2 So dissatisfied was he that in 1774 he had tried hard on one of his periodical home visits to exchange his ambassadorship at Naples for one at Madrid ; and at the present time science, pictures, archaeology, sport and gallantry occupied his constant leisure — indeed he was more of a Consul than of an Ambassador. General Acton's advent, however, as Minister of War and Marine in 1779 proved a passing stimulus to his dormant energy. If a dawdler, he was never a trifler ; and he was uniformly courteous and kind-hearted. His frank geniality recom- mended him as bear-leader to the many English visitors ' Hist. MS. Commission, Dartmouth Papers, vol. iii. p. 224. Caserta, Jan. 16, 1776, and cf. p. 238. The early letters to (ireville in the Morrison MS. concern art, politics, business, and sport. - Cf. Morrison MS. 82, where he recounts on February 9, 1772, how he played ' Bisilis ' with their Majesties. This letter contains his tirst mention of Acton the Premier, who succeeded to his English baronetcy in 1791 ; and cf. zho ii>id. 92, 1780, and lOO, March 13, 1781. •' He had to wail till 1791, the year of his marriage. E 66 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON who flocked annually to Naples/ often stumbled lightly into scrapes that caused him infinite trouble,^ and prompted his humorous regret that Magna Charta contained no clause forbidding Britons to emigrate. It was not till Emma dawned on his horizon that he woke up in earnest to the duties of his office. His wife made every effort, so far as her feeble health admitted, to grace his hospitalities. She shared his own taste for music, and sang to the harpsichord before the Court of Vienna. The sole regret of her unselfish piety was that he remained a worldling. She studied to spare him every vexation and intrusion ; and while he pursued his long rambles, sporting, artistic, or sentimental, she sat at home praying for her elderly Pierrot's eternal welfare. Her example dispensed with precepts, and hoped to win her wanderer back imperceptibly. How little she deserved Greville's description of her as merely 'a raw- boned Scotchwoman'^ maybe gleaned from some of the last jottings in her diary and her last letters to her husband : — ' How tedious are the hours I pass in the absence of the beloved of my heart, and how tiresome is every scene to me. There is the chair in which he used to sit, I find him not there, and my heart feels a pang, and my foolish eyes overflow with tears. The number of years we have been married, instead of diminishing my love have increased it to that degree and wound it up with my existence in such a manner that it cannot alter. How strong are the efforts I have made to conquer my feelings, but in vain. . . . No one but those who have felt it can know the miserable anxiety of an undivided love. When he is present, every object has a different appearance ; when he is absent, how lonely, how isolated I feel. ... I return home, and there the very dog stares me in the face and seems to ask for its beloved master. . . . Oh ! blessed Lord God and Saviour, be Thou mercifully pleas'd to guard and pro- tect him in all dangers and in all situations. Have ^ Cf. Lord Bruce's tribute as early as 1769, Morrison MS. 16. ' The Duke of Hamilton, for instance, and ' Sir Harry ' in the spring of 1777. Morrison MS. 65. ' Mordson MS. 126, Emma's quotation. The Right Hoxourable Sir William Hamilton", K. C.B. After a rare engraving, probably by Gravclot. •THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' e*! mercy upon us both, oh Lord, and turn our hearts to Thee.' ' A few days, nay a few hours . . . may render me in- capable of writing to you. . . . But how shall I express my love and tenderness to you, dearest of earthly blessings. My only attachment to this world has been my love to you, and you are my only regret in leaving it. My heart has followed your footsteps where ever you went, and you have been the source of all my joys. I would have preferred beggary with you to kingdoms without you,^ but all this must have an end — forget and forgive my faults and remember me with kindness. I entreat you not to suffer me to be shut up after I am dead till it is absolutely neces- sary. Remember the promise you have made me that your bones should lie by mine when God shall please to call you, and leave directions in your will about it' - That promise was kept, and the man of the world sleeps by the daughter of heaven, re-united in the Pembrokeshire vault. A probably adopted daughter — Cecilia — who is mentioned in the greetings of early correspondents, had died some seven years before. Could any Calypso replace such pure devotion ? Yet Calypsos there had been already — among their number the divorced lady who became Margravine of Anspach, the ' sweet little creature qui a Ihonncitr de vie p lair e' \^ a ' Madame Tschudy''' so early as 1769; a 'Lady A.,' contrasted by Greville in 1785 with Emma; and, perhaps platonically, those gifted artists Diana Beauclerk, once Lady Boling- broke, and Mrs. Darner, who was to sculpture one of the two busts of Nelson done from the life.'^ In England as well ' It is strange that the second Lady Hamilton, long before she became so, makes use of a similar expression with regard to Greville. Lady Strafford of Queen Anne's time also employs this phrase. - Morrison MS. Il6, 118. The last, in July 17^2, ibid. 120, I have no space to quote, but it is fully as affecting. '^ Lady Craven. Cf. Morrison MS. 30, June 17, 1773. * Cf. Morrison MS. 20, 1769. ^ So late as 1809 the Hon. Anne Seymour Darner (1748-1828) wrote most warmly to Lady Hamiltou, begging her influence to have an engraving of this bust included in a Lift of Nelson. In the course of .1 long letter she says : 'To you, my dear Lady Hamilton, and to my kind friend Sir William, you know I owe this favour [of " the immortal Hero's having sat to nic "], and 68 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON as Naples flirtation was the disorder of the day. Yet about Sir William there must have been a charm of demeanour, a calm of ease and good nature, and a certain worldly unselfishness which could fasten such spiritual love more surely than the love profane. He was a sincere worshipper of beauty, both in art and nature ; while Goethe himself respected his discriminating taste.^ He was a Stoic-Epicurean, a 'philosopher.'- His confession of faith and outlook upon existence are well outlined in a letter to Emma of 1792 which deserves attention, ' My study of antiquities has kept me in constant thought of the perpetual fluctuation of everything. The whole art is, really, to live all the days of our life ; and not, with anxious care, disturb the sweetest hour that life affords — which is, the present. Admire the Creator, and all His works to us incomprehensible ; and do all the good you can upon earth ; and take the chance of eternity without dismay.'^ Absent since 1778, he came over at the close of 1782 to bury his wife.* It is just possible that even then he may have caught a flying glimpse of the girl whom he was to style two years later * the fair tea-maker of Edgware Row.' Greville, of course, was punctual in condolence : ' You have no idea how shocked I was. . . . Yet when I consider the long period of her indisposition and the weakness of her frame, I ought to have been prepared to hear it. I am glad that her last illness was not attended with extra- ordinary suffering, and I know you so well that I am sure you will think with affection and regret, as often as the blank which must be felt after 25 years society shall call her to your memory, and it will not be a small con- solation that to the last you shew'd that kindness and yoiivi\S\. not wonder at my ambition and anxiety that such a circumstance, which I know so Will how to value, shou'd be recorded, . . . and that my name should thus be {if I may so term it) joined to the most brilliant name England ever gave birth to.'' Cf. Messrs. Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905. As Conway's daughter she was Horace Walpole's favourite. Cf. Letters, vol. viii. p. 76. The sole other bust of him from life is Flaxman's. ^ Cf. the Italienische Reise. - Morrison MS. 370, January 7, 1799. ^ Nelson Letters (1814), vol. ii. p. 173. * The accounts of the funeral expenses exist and were sold at Sotheby's in May 1905. He was an affectionate brother both to Frederick and Anne. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 69 attention to her which she deserved. / have often quoted you ^ for that conduct which few have goodness of heart or principle to imitate' He had hoped to hasten to his dearest Hamilton's side in the crisis of affliction, but his brother's affairs, the troubles of trusteeships, and the bequest by Lord Seaforth of a rare cameo, alas ! intervened, and there- fore he could not come.- So Mount Vesuvius-Hamilton hurried to Mahomet-Greville, and doubtless, after a little virtii and more business, returned for the autumn season at Naples and his winter sport at Caserta. But meanwhile Greville grew ruffled and out-at-elbows. He was once more member for his family borough. He needed larger emolument, yet the coalition was on the wane. For a brief interval it returned, and Greville breathed again, pocketing a small promotion in the general scramble for office." In 1783, however, the great Pitt entered on his long reign, and Greville's heart sank once more. His post, how- ever, was confirmed, despite his conscientious disapproval * of reforms for England and for Ireland, and new India bills in the interval.^ Still, his tastes were so various that even now he pondered if, after all, an heiress of ton (none of your parvenues) were not the only way out ; and, pending decision, he went on collecting crystals, exchanging pic- tures of saints, and lecturing Emma on the conveyiances — perhaps the least extravagant and most edifying pastime of all. Every August he toured in Warwickshire after his own, and to Milford and Pembrokeshire after his uncle's affairs (for Milford was being 'developed'); nor was he the man to begrudge his eleve a i^^ weeks' change in the dull season during his absence. In 1784 she was to require it more than usual, for sea-baths had been ordered, while ^ To Emma? - Morrison MS. I2i, Sept. 24, 1782. ^ Cf. Sir W. H.'s allusion in Morrison MS. 122, April 29, 1783. ■• In March 1785 he writes to Sir William: 'I believe P. means to act for the best and to remain as long as he can, but it does not seem that he rests entirely on the court, by his declaring for a reform without the general support of the administration and contrary to the interests of the crown. . . . The India bill is not to be compared to the effect of this measure, and I am curious to see the event. I of course never courted favor by the sacrifice of my decided opinion ; I shall therefore uniformly oppose it.' — Morrison MS. 135. * Cf. Greville's moderate letter to Fox. — Morrison MS. 123. 70 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON her first thought was then to be for her ' little Emma,'^ now being tended at Hawarden. In the early summer of this very year Sir William Hamilton had reappeared as widower, and crossed the threshold of Edgware Row to the flurry, doubtless, of the little handmaidens, whose successors, 'Molly Dring ' and ' Nelly Gray,' were so regularly paid their scanty wages, as registered in the surviving accounts. The courtly connoisseur was enraptured. Never had he beheld anything more Greek, any one more naturally accomplished, more uncommon. What an old slyboots had this young nephew been these last two years, to have concealed this hidden treasure while he detailed every- thing else m his letters ! The demure rogue, then, was a suburban amateur with a vengeance ! The antiquarian- Apollo, carrying with him a new work on Etruscan vases, and a new tract on volcanic phenomena, flattered himself that here were volcanoes and vases indeed. Here were Melpomene and Thalia, and Terpsichore and Euterpe and Venus, all combined and breathing. Did he not boast the secret of perpetual youth? After all, he was only fifty- four, and he looked ten years younger than his age. He would at least make the solemn youngster jealous. Not that he was covetous ; his interest was that of a father, a collector, an uncle. The mere lack of a ring debarred him from being her uncle in reality. ' My uncle,' she should call him. Greville's amusement was not quite unclouded ; he laughed, but laughed uneasily. To begin with, he believed himself his uncle's heir, but as yet 'twas ' not so nominated in the bond.' Sir William might well re-marry. There was Lord Middleton's second daughter in Portman Square, a twenty thousand pounder, weighing on the scales, a fish worthy of Greville's own rod. But the Court of Naples, an alliance with a widower kinsman of the Hamiltons, the Athols, the Abercorns, and the Grahams, enriched too by recent death, were solidities that might well outweigh his ^ Born about February 1782, after her mother's invitation Ity Grevilie. My reasons for disagreeing with Mr. Jeaffreson's view as to the identity of this child ate given in Note C. of the Appendix. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 71 paltry pittance of six hundred a year.^ And 2/"the widower re-married? — As for Emma, it was of course absurd to con- sider her. She adored her Greville, and should uncle William choose to play light father in this little farce, he could raise no objection. Emma herself felt flattered that one so celebrated and learned should deign to be just a nice new friend. He was so amiable and attentive ; so discerning of her gifts ; so witty too, and full of anecdote. This was no musty scholar, but a good-natured man of the very wide world, far wider than her pent-in corner of it. Indeed, he was a 'dear.' And then he laughed so heartily when she mimicked Greville's buckram brother, or that rich young coxcomb Willoughby, who had wooed her in vain already ; no giddy youths for her. Was not her own matchless Greville a man of accomplishments, a bachelor of arts and sciences, a master of sentences? The uncle was worthy of the nephew, and so she was ' his oblidged humble servant, or affectionate' niece 'Emma,' whichever he 'liked the best.'^ And in her heart of hearts already lurked a little scheme. Her child, the child to whom Greville had been so suddenly, so gently kind, and after which she yearned, was with her grandmother. After she had taken the tiny companion to Parkgate, and bathed it there, why should not her divinity permit the mother to bring it home for good to Edgware Row? It would form a new and touching tie between them. The plan must not be broached till she could report on 'little Emma's' progress, but surely then he would not have the heart to deny her. Some evidence allows the guess that she had confided her desire to Sir William, and that he had favoured and forwarded her suit with Greville. And so she left the smoke and turmoil, hopeful and trustful. Mother and child would at length be reunited under purer skies and by the wide expanse of sea. All the mother ^ His income does not seem to have exceeded this sum (till 1794), .ind his certain annuity was only £s^°- — Morrison MS. 138. * Cf. Morrison MS. 143. Most of the foregoing may be gathered from the shortly subsequent correspondence. On September 5 Hamilton met Horace Walpole at dinner at ' Mrs. Garrick's.' He was 'returning to the kingdom of cinders.' — Letters^ vol. viii. p. 502. 72 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON within her stirred and called aloud ; her heart was ready- to 'break' at the summons. Fatherly Sir William saw her off as proxy for her absent Greville, whom he was to join, the happy man. ' Tell Sir William everything you can,' she wrote immediately, ' and tell him I am sorry our situation prevented me from giving him a kiss, . . . but I will give him one, and entreat it if he will accept it. Ask him how I looked, and let him say something kind to me when you write.' — 'Pray, my dear Greville, do lett me come home as soon as you can ; . . . indeed I have no pleasure or happiness, I wish I could not think on you ; but if I was the greatest lady in the world, I should not be happy from you ; so don't lett me stay long.'^ Her first Parkgate letters, in the form of diaries,^ speak for themselves. After she had fetched away little Emma ' Hart ' 3 from her grandmother's at Hawarden, she stopped at Chester. She had fixed on Abergele, but it proved too distant, fashionable, and dear.* 'High Lake' (Hoylake) was too uncomfortable ; it had ' only 3 houses,' and not one of them ' fit for a Christian.' With her ' poor Emma ' she had bidden farewell to all her friends ; she had taken her from ' a good home ' ; she hoped she would prove worthy of his 'goodness to her, and to her mother.' Her recipe-book had been forgotten ; — ' parting with you made me so unhappy.' — ' My dear Greville, don't be angry, but I gave my gran mother 5 guineas, for she had laid some [money] out on her, and I would not take her awhay shabbily. But Emma shall pay you. . . . My dear Greville, I wish I was with you. God bless you ! ' By mid-June she was installed ' in the house of a Laidy, whose husband is at sea. She and her granmother live together, and we board with her at present. . . . The price is high, but they don't lodge anybody without board- ing ; and as it is comfortable, decent, and quiet, I thought it wou'd not ruin us, till I could have your oppionon, which 1 Morrison MS. 125, June 15, 1784. 2 Morrison MS. 124-128, June and July 1784. ^ She is so called in the school-bills which Greville forwarded in December 1791 to Naples. Morrison MS. 201. The name of ' Carew ' was assumed after- wards. Cf. Appendix, Part i. Note C. * ' 2 guineas and a half a week. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 73 I hope to have freely and without restraint, as, believe me, you will give it to one who will allways be happy to follow it, lett it be what it will ; as I avi sure you woii'd not lead me wrong. And though my little temper may have been sometimes high, believe me, I have allways thought you right in the end when I have come to reason. I bathe, and find the water very soult. Here is a good many laidys batheing, but I have no society with them, as it is best not. So pray, my dearest Greville, write soon, and tell me what to do, as I will do just what you think proper; and tell me what to do with the child. For she is a great romp, and I can hardly master her, . . . She is tall, [has] good eys and brows, and as to lashes, she will be passible ; but she has overgrown all her cloaths. I am makeing and mending all as I can for her. . . . Pray, my dear Greville, do lett me come home, as soon as you can ; for I am all most broken- hearted being from you. . . . You don't know how much I love you, and your behaiver to me, when we parted, was so kind, Greville, I don't know what to do. . . .' And her next epistle seems to echo under circumstances far removed the voice of the first Lady Hamilton : — ' How teadous does the time pass awhay till I hear from you. Endead I should be miserable if I did not recollect on what happy terms we parted — parted, yess, but to meet again with tenfould happiness. . . . Would you think it, Greville ? Emma — the wild, unthinking Emma, is a grave, thoughtful phylosopher. 'Tis true, Greville, and I will convince you I am, when I see you. But how I am runing on. I say nothing abbout this guidy, wild girl of mine. What shall we do with her, Greville ? . . . Wou'd you believe, on Sattarday we had a little quarel, . . . and I did slap her on her hands, and when she came to kiss me and make it up, I took her on my lap and cried. Pray, do you blame me or not? Pray tell me. Oh, Greville, you don't know how I love her. Endead I do. When she comes and looks in 7ny face and calls me ^^ mother^' endead I then truly am a mother, for all the mother's feelings rise at once, and tels me I am or ought to be a mother,/^?' she has a wrigJit to my protection ; and she shall have it as long as I can, and I will do all in my power to prevent her falling into the error her poor miser- 74 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON able mother fell into. But why do I say miserable ? Am not I happy abbove any of my sex, at least in my situation ? Does not Greville love me, or at least like me ? Does not he protect me ? Does not he provide for me? Is not he a father to my child? Why do I call myself miserable? No, it was a mistake, and I will be happy, chearful and kind, and do all my poor abbility will lett me, to return the fatherly goodness and protection he has shewn. Again, my dear Greville, the recollection of past scenes brings tears in my eyes. But the[yj are tears of happiness. To think of your goodness is too much. But once for all, Greville, I will be grateful. Adue. It is near bathing time, and I must lay down my pen, and I won't finish till I see when the post comes, whether there is a letter. He comes in abbout one o'clock. I hope to have a letter to-day. ... I am in hopes I shall be very well. . . . But, Greville, I am oblidged to give a shilling a day for the bathing horse and whoman,and twopence a day for the dress. It is a great expense, and it fretts me when I think of it. . . . At any rate it is better than paying the docter. But wright your oppinion truly, and tell me what to do. Emma is crying because I won't come and bathe. So Greville, adue till after I have dipt. May God bless you, my dearest Greville, and believe me, faithfully, affectionately, and truly yours only' — ' And no letter from my dear Greville. Why, my dearest G., what is the reason you don't wright? You promised to wright before I left Hawarden. , . . Give my dear kind love and compliments to Pliney,^ and tell him I put you under his care, and he must be answereble for you to me, wen I see him. . . . Say everything you can to him for me, and tell him I shall always think on him with gratitude, and remem- ber him with pleasure, and shall allways regret loesing [h]is good comppany. Tell him I wish him every happi- ness this world can afford him, and that I will pray for him and bless him as long as I live. . . . Pray, my dear Greville, lett me come home soon. I have been 3 weeks, and if I stay a fortnight longer, that will be 5 weeks, you know ; and then the expense is above 2 guineas a week with washing . . . and everything. . .' ' With what impatience 1 Sir W. Hamilton. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 75 do I sett down to wright till I see the postman. But ?ure I shall have a letter to-day. Can you, Greville — no, you can't — have forgot your poor Emma allready? Tho' I am but a few weeks absent from you, my heart will not one moment leave you. I am allways thinking of you, and cou'd allmost fancy I hear you, see you ; . . . don't you remember how you promised ? Don't you recollect what you said at parting ? how you shou'd be happy to see me again ? ' A belated answer arrived at last ; Emma was very grate- ful. But this was not the letter for which she looked. What she wanted was omniscience's permission for '1-ittle Emma ' to share their home, to let her be a mother indeed. After a week two 'scolding' notes were his reply. ' Little Emma ' in Edgware Row was not on Greville's books at all. He would charge himself with her nurture elsewhere, but the child must be surrendered ; he certainly knew how to ' play' his ' trout.' Emma meekly kissed her master's rod. Greville being Providence, resignation was wisdom as well as duty. She was not allowed to remain a mother : — ' I was very happy, my dearest Greville, to hear from you as your other letter vex'd me ; you scolded me so. But it is over, and I forgive you. . . . You don't know, my dearest Greville, what a pleasure I have to think that my poor Emma will be comfortable and happy . . . and if she does but turn out well, what a happyness it will be. And I hope she will for your sake. I will teach her to pray for you as long as she lives ; and if she is not grateful and good it won't be my fault. But what you say is very true : a bad disposition may be made good by good example, and Greville wou'd not put her anywheer to have a bad one. I come into your whay athinking ; hollidays spoils children. It takes there attention of[f] from there scool, it gives them a bad habbit. When they have been a month and goes back this does not picas them, and that is not wright, and the[y] do nothing but think when the[y] shall go back again. Now Emma will never expect what she never had. J^ut I won't think. All my happiness now is Greville, and to think that he loves me. ... I have said all I have to say about Emma, yet only she gives her duty. ... I have no society with an\ body but the mistress of the house, and her 76 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON mother and sister. The latter is a very genteel yong lady, good-nattured, and does everything to pleas me. But still I wou'd rather be at home, if you was there. I follow the old saying, home is home though 'tis ever so homely. . . . P.S. — . . . I bathe Emma, and she is very well and grows. Her hair will grow very well on her forehead, and I don't think her nose will be very snub. Her eys is blue and pretty. But she don't speak through her nose, but she speaks countryfied, but she will forget it. We squable sometimes ; still she is fond of me, and endead I love her. For she is sensible. So much for Beauty. Adue, I long to see you.' ^ Empowered by the Sultan of Edgware Row, the two Emmas, to their great but fleeting joy, were suffered to return in the middle of July. Sir William and his nephew were still on their provincial tour, when Emma, who fell ill again in town, thus addressed him for the last time before his own return. It shall be our closing excerpt : — ' I received your kind letter last night, and, my dearest Greville, I want words to express to you how happy it made me. For I thought I was like a lost sheep, and everybody had forsook me. I was eight days confined to my room and very ill, but am, thank God, very well now, and a great deal better for your kind instructing letter, and I own the justice of your remarks. You shall have your appartment to yourself, you shall read, wright, or sett still, just as you pleas ; for I shall think myself happy to be under the seam roof with Greville, and do all I can to make it agreable, without disturbing him in any pursuits that he can follow, to employ himself in at home or else whare. For your absence has taught me that I ought to think myself happy if I was within a mile of you ; so as I cou'd see the place as contained you I shou'd think myself happy abbove my sphear. So, my dear G., come home. . . . You shall find ^ MorrisonMS. 128. My contention is that this child was the only 'little Emma' born about March 1782. For the whole subject, cf. Note C. of the Appendix. It should be remembered with regard to such expressions about her as might warrant her being older than two and a half, that, like her mother, and the little Iloratia twenty-one years later, she may well have looked and spoken above her years. 'THE FAIR TEA-MAKER' 77 me good, kind, gentle, and affectionate, and everything you wish me to do I will do. For I will give myself a fair trial, and follow your advice, for I allways think it wright. . . . Don't think, Greville, this is the wild fancy of a moment's consideration. It is not. I have thoughroly considered everything in my confinement, aiid say nothing now but what I shall practice. ... I have a deal to say to you when I see you. Oh, Greville, to think it is 9 weeks since I saw you. I think I shall die with the pleasure of seeing you. ... I am all ways thinking of your goodness. . . . Emma is very well, and is allways wondering why you don't come home. She sends her duty to you. . . . Pray, pray come as soon as you come to town. Good by, God bless you ! Oh, how I long to see you.' ^ It should be at once remarked that Greville conscien- tiously performed his promise. He put ' little Emma ' to a good school, and several traces of her future survive.- Meanwhile, having won his point, and having also ' pre- pared ' her mind for another separation, of which she little dreamed, he came back to his bower of thankful worship and submissive meekness. He can scarcely have played often with the child, whose benefactor he was — a dancing- master, so to speak, of beneficence, ever standing in the first position of correct deportment. In August he bade fare- well to his indulgent uncle, whom, indeed, he had 'reason' to remember with as much ' gratitude and affection ' as Emma did.^ Romney was commissioned to paint her as the ' Bac- chante ' for the returning Ambassador, who had reassured his nephew about the distant future. He had appointed him his heir, and offered to stand security if he needed to borrow. He had also joined Greville's other friends in advising him to bow to the inevitable and console his purse with an heiress.* Whether he also had already contem- plated an exchange seems more than doubtful. Rut the secretive Greville had already begun to harbour an idea, 1 Morrison MS. 129, August 10, 17S4. ^ Cf. Appendix, Note C. ' Morrison MS. 131. * The 'reasonable plan.' Cf. Greville's letter cited at Ihc opening of the next chapter. 78 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON soon turned into a plan, and perpetually justified as a piece of benevolent unselfishness. While the ship bears the un- vvedded uncle to softer climes and laxer standards, while Greville, with a sigh of relief, pores over his accounts, we may well exclaim of these two knowing and obliging materialists, par nobile fratrum — a noble brace of brothers indeed ! CHAPTER IV 'WHAT GOD, AND GKEVILLE, PLEASES' To March 1786 ' . . . I REALY do not feel myself in a situation to accept favours.' ' I depend on you for some cristals in lavas, etc., from Sicily.' These sentences from two long epistles to his uncle at the close of 1784 are keynotes to Greville's tune of mind. With the new year he became rather more explicit : — ' Emma is very grateful for your remembrance. Her picture shall be sent by the first ship — I wish Romney yet to mend the dog.^ She certainly is much improved since she has been with me. She has none of the bad habits which giddiness and inexperience encouraged, and which bad choice of company introduced. ... I am sure she is attached to me, or she would not have refused the offers which I know have been great ; and such is her spirit that on the least slight or expression of my being tired or burthened by her, I am sure she would not only give up the connexion, but would not even accept a farthing for future assistance.' Here let us pause a moment. In the 'honest bargain' shortly to be struck after much obliquity, Greville's shabbi- ness consists, if we reflect on the prevailing tone of his age and set, not so much in the disguised transfer — a mean trick in itself — as in the fact that, while he had no reproach to make and was avowedly more attached to her than ever, he practised upon the very disinterestedness and fondness that he praised. Had he been unable to rely on them with ^ In ihc lirsl picluic of the ' Bacchante' The second wao with a ^oat. 79 8o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON absolute confidence, so wary a strategist would scarcely have ventured on the attempt, since his future prospects largely depended on her never disadvantaging him with Sir William. That she never did so, even in the first burst of bitter disillusion ; that she always, and zealously, advo- cated his interests, redounds to her credit and proves her magnanimity.^ A revengeful woman, whose love and self- love had been wounded to the quick, might have ruined him, as the censor of Paddington was well aware. That he continued to approve his part in these delicate negotia- tions is shown by the fact of preserving these letters after they came into his possession as his uncle's executor. He never ceased to protest that his motives in the trans- action were for her own ultimate good. He was not callous, but he was Jesuitical. Let him pursue his scattered hints further : — 'This is another part of my situation. If I was inde- pendent I should think so little of any other connexion that I never would marry. I have not an idea of it at present, but if any proper opportunity offer'd I shou'd be much harassed, not know how to manage, or how to fix Emma to her satisfaction ; and to forego the reasonable plan which you and my friends advised is not right. I am not quite of an age to retire from bustle, and to retire into distress and poverty is worse. I can keep on here credit- ably this winter. The offer I made of my pictures is to get rid of the Humberston engagements ^ which I told you of. I have a iJ^iooo ready and looo to provide. I therefore am making money .^ If Ross* will take in payment from me my bond with your security, I shall get free from Humberston affairs entirely, and be able to give them up. It is in- different to me whether what I value is in your keeping or mine. I will deposit with you gems wiiich you shall value 1 A typical instance of her feeling towards him long after her transformation is shown by a subsequent note in this chapter. Even so late as l8o8 (the year before his death, and five years after his renewed hardness towards her) she is to be found consulting and confiding in him. Cf. Appendix, Part li. C. (5) (i). - Under Lord Warwick's will. 3 On the same principle, it must be presumed, as Dickens's Mr. Jarndycc, junior. * Partner in Ross and Ogilvic, who were also Sir William's bankets. 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 8i at above that sum. ... It will be on that condition I will involve you, for favor I take as favor, and business as business.' His subsequent communications dole out the growing plot by degrees and approaches ; he works by sap and mine. In March 1785, after discussing politics at large, he doubts if his uncle's ' heart or his feet ' are ' the lightest.' He compliments him on his energy in sport, flirtation and friendship — 'quests' not 'incompatible' in 'a good heart.' He moots his design in the light of Hamilton's welfare. ' He must be a very interested friend indeed who does not sincerely wish everything that can give happiness to a friend.' He is convinced that each of them can sincerely judge for the other. He does not, of course, venture to ' suppose ' an ' experiment ' for the diplomatist ; but he him- self has made the happiest though a ' limited ' experiment, which, however, ^from poverty . . . cannot last' ; his poverty but not his will consents. And then he opens the scheme. * If you did not chuse a wife, I wish the tea-maker of Edgware Rowe was yours, if I could without banishing myself from a visit to Naples [which he never meant to make !]. / do not know how to part with what I am not tired with. I do not know how to go on, and I give her every 7nerit of prudence and moderation and affection. She shall never want, and if I decide sooner than I am forced to stop by necessity, it will be that I may give her part of my pittance ; [here peeped out the better self], and, if I do so it must be by sudden resolution and by putting it out of her power to refuse it [there, indeed, was the rub !] for I know her dis- interestedness to be such that she will rather encounter any difficulty than distress me. I should not write to you thus, if I did not think you seem'd as partial as I am to her [the hook is now baited]. She would not hear at once of any change, and from no one that was not liked by her [so the end was to justify the means]. I think I could secure on her near ;^ioo a year [a real self-sacrifice]. It is more than in justice to all I can do [to whom but Greville ?] ; but with parting with part of my virtu, I can secure it to her and content myself with the remainder [no divorce observe, from the minerals]. I think you might settle another on F 82 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON her. ... I am not a dog in the manger. If I could go on I would never make this arrangement [the true term at last !], but to be reduced to a standstill and involve myself in distress [' real distress '] further than I could extricate myself, and then to be unable to provide for her at all, would make me miserable from thinking myself unjust to her. And as she is too young and handsome to retire into a convent or the country [the alternative is curious], and is honorable and honest and can be trusted [for ' Brutus is an honourable man '], after reconciling myself to the necessity I consider where she could be happy. I know you thought me jealous of your attention to her ; I can assure you her conduct entitles her more than ever to my confidence [surely a handsome testimonial from the last situation !]. Judge, then, as you know my satisfaction in looking on a modern piece of virtu, if I do not think you a second self, in thinking that by placing her within your reach, I render a necessity which would otherwise be heartbreaking [if heart there were to break] tolerable and even comforting.' Having prepared the ground, he wrote again in the following May, ' without affectation or disguise.' He protested that his ' delicacy ' prevented him writing on the subject while ' Lady Craven ' was by to be Sir William's flame, or ' Mrs. D '[ickenson] ^ to play the dragon. The * odds ' in their own two lives were not ' pro- portioned to the difference ' of their years ; he was very ' sensible ' of his uncle's intentions towards him. At what followed Sir William must have smiled. The real reason for all his fencing emerges. Sir William's joint security on the pledge of half his minerals, the assur- ance that he was made his heir, were mere credentials to be shown by Greville to a prospective father-in-law. ' Suppose a lady of 30,000 was to marry me,' and so forth — a vista of married fortune. Even now the name of the lady thus honoured was withheld ; but Hamilton must have known it perfectly: '. . . If you dislike my frankness, I shall be sorry, for it cost me a little to throw myself so open, and to no one's friendship could I have trusted myself but to ^ Sir William's niece who was now at Naples, and afterwards, unavailingly, resented Emma's presence. 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 83 yours, from which I have ever been treated with indulgence and preference.' A month more and he disclosed a positive, if 'distant and imperfect,' prospect. Lord Middleton's youngest daughter was the favoured lady — in the ' requisites of beauty and disposition,' ' beyond the mark for a younger brother.' The die was cast ; he penned a formal proposal to her father. It may at once be told that the lady rejected him, and that Greville never married. Often and often he must have wished his poor and unfashionable Emma back again, when she was poor and unfashionable no longer : his amour propre had been hurt, and, till he became vice- chamberlain in 1794, to Lady Hamilton's genuine pleasure,^ his fortunes drooped. Greville's tentatives were now at an end. At length he laid a plain outline before Sir William: — 'If you could form a plan by which you could have a trial, and could invite her and tell her that I ought not to leave England, and that I cannot afford to go on ; and state it as a kind- ness to me if she would accept your invitation, she would go with pleasure. She is to be six weeks at some bathing place ; and when you could write an answer to this, and inclose a letter to her, I could manage it ; and either by land, by the coach to Geneva, and from thence by VetUcrino forward her, or else by sea. I must add that 1 could not manage it so well later ; after a month, and absent from me, she would consider the whole more calmly. If there was in the world a person she loved so well as yourself after me, I could not arrange with so much sang- ' Cf. her letter of congratulation (Sept. i6, 1794), Morrison MS. 246, in answer to his letter of August 18 announcing his good fortune and claiming the approbation of such friends as herself, as the best reward for one who plumes himself on friendship (Ne/son Letters (1814), vol. i. p. 265) : ' I should not flatter myself so far,' he writes, ' if I was not very sincerely interested in your happiness and ever affectionately yours.' ' I congratulate you,' she answers, ' with all my heart on your appointment. . . . You have well merited it ; and all your friends must be happy at a change so favourable not only for your pecuniary circumstances, as for the honner of the situation. May you long enjoy it with every happiness that you deserve ! I speak from my heart. I don't know a better, honester, or more amiable and worthy man than yourself; and it is a great deal for me to say this, for, whatever I think, I am not apt to pay compliments.' 84 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON froid; and I am sure I would not let her go to you, if any risque of the usual coquetry of the sex [were] likely to give uneasiness or appearance. . . .' Sir William's ' invitation ' was to be perfectly innocent. She was to understand that her dear Greville's interest de- manded a temporary separation ; that she and her mother would be honoured guests at the Naples Embassy ; that she could improve the delightful change of scene and climate by training her musical gifts under the best masters, by studying the arts in their motherland, by learning languages amid a cosmopolitan crowd ; that by October her fairy-prince would reappear, and, like another Orpheus, bring back his Eurydice. And all this she was to be told, after absence, that makes the heart grow fonder, had inured her to separation, softened her heart to self- sacrifice, and reconciled her to his lightest bidding — when, in short, it would be easiest to practise on devotion. About these machinations Emma was left wholly in the dark ; their windings took place behind her back. Her all-wise, all-powerful and tender Greville could never consult but for her good, while his real unselfishness towards the child forbade any suspicion of his purpose. To Emma his prim platitudes were the loving eloquence of Romeo. And for the last few months he had been always preaching up to her the spotless example of a certain ' Mrs! Wells,' refined and accomplished, who, in Emma's own situation, had earned and kept both her own self-respect and that of more than one successive admirer ; who had learned the art of retaining the lover as friend, while she accepted his friend as lover. These innuendoes may well have puzzled her. Had she not realised a dream of constancy, and could that pass? Had she not parted with the child she loved to please the man of her heart, and fasten his faith to hers? Yet all the time her dearest Greville could speak of 'forwarding' her, just as if she were one of those crystals on which he doted. The fact was that, added to his embarrassments, his need for fortune with a wife, his wish at once to oblige Sir William and to preclude him from wedlock, his genuine desire — which must be granted — to provide for Emma's 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVTLLE, PLEASES' 85 future, arose the feeling that Emma herself was now too fond. It was hard to resign her ; but, unless the choice was quickly made, it might become impossible ever to make it ; and he might be entangled into a marriage which would hold him up to ridicule. But for once Greville was in haste. Sir William, always leisurely, took time before he began to broach a scheme of life which filled his nephew with alarm. Greville had never doubted that, should his will prevail with Emma as well as with his uncle, the latter would sequester her in one of his villas near Naples — some Italian Edgware Row. His mind recoiled from the awful thought that she might ever dispense the honours of the Embassy. The Ambassador, however, could not agree. He had discerned powers in this singular woman passing Greville's vision, and the connoisseur longed to call them forth and create a work of art. He lived, too, in a land where the convetiaiices were not so rigid as in his own. Did not the bonne amie of a distinguished diplomat and Knight of Malta grace his Roman house and circle?^ Illness also made for postponement. When Greville returned to town after his summer outing, he found Emma, fresh from her sea-baths, ' alarmed and distress'd ' over her mother's ' paralysis.' ' It was not so severe an attack,' he told his uncle in November, ' as I understood it to be when I informed you of it from Cornwall. . . . You may suppose that I did not increase Emma's uneasiness by any hint of the subject of our correspondence' ; 'at any rate,' he sighs, ' it cannot take place, and she goes on so well, . . . and also improv'd in looks, that I own it is less agreable to part ; yet I have no other alternative but to marry, or remain a pauper ; I shall persist in my resolution not to lose an opportunity if I can find it, and do not think that viy idea of sending her to Naples on such an event arises from my consulting my convenience only. I can assure you she would not have a scarcity of offers ; she has refused great ^ Cf. Ihc instance of Pierre Camillc dc Rohan, Maltese Ambassador in Rome 1791). adduced hy Lady Aralmeshiiry in Lady Minto's Life auii Letters of the first Earlof Minto, vol. i. His ' friend ' was a ' Chanoinesse.' This impeccable lady, however, refused to see Lady Hamilton at Caserta before her marriage, although she was universally received, and by many believed lo have been already married. ^6 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ones ; but I am sure she would prefer a foreign country. ... I know that confidence and good usage will never be abused by her, and that nothing can make her giddy. I was only ten days with her when I was call'd away to be Mayor of Warwick ; it was not kindly meant, but it will turn out well. I have been at the castle ; I have put myself on good terms with my brother, and I think I shall keep him passive, if not interested for me in the borough. . . .' It was not, therefore, Emma only who had grown ' much more considerate and amiable.' Lord Warwick must be enlisted if Greville was to ' stand high with both parties,' and urge them into competition for his services, as he gravely proceeded to inform his uncle. December brought Sir William's offer, and with it matured Greville's plans for the March ensuing. He would visit Scotland to retrench and profit by the lectures of Edinburgh dominies, while his 'minerals' would remain his, thanks to Hamilton's generosity ; Emma, she was assured, for a while only, would repair to Naples chaperoned by her mother, and the pleasant Gavin Hamilton, Romeward bound. All of them were to be couriered so far as Geneva by the Swiss Dejean ; at Geneva Sir William's man Vincenzo — still his faithful servant in Nelson's day — would meet the party. For six months only Emma could cease her own course of incomparable lectures at Edgware Row ; and a brief absence alone reconciled her to severance. A charming visit was to hasten a welcome re-union. '. . . The absolute necessity,' explains the casuist once more, ' of reducing every expence to enable me to have enough to exist on, and to pay the interest of my debt without parting zvitk my collection of minerals, which is not yet in a state of arrangement which would set it off to its greatest advantage, occasion'd my telling Emma,' with sudden artlessness, ' that I should be obliged on business to absent myself for a few months in Scotland. She naturally said that such a separation would be very like a total separation, for that she should be very miserable during my absence, and that she should neither profit by my conversation nor improve in any degree, that my absence would be more tolerable if she had you to comfort I 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 87 her, . . . as there was not a person in the world whom she could be happy with, if I was dead, but yourself, and that she certainly would profit of your kind offer, if I should die or slight her' — two equally improbable alternatives in Emma's purview. '. . . I told her that / should have no objection to her going to Naples for 6 or 8 months, and that if she realy wish'd it I would forward any letter she wrote. . . . That she would not fear being troublesome, as she would be perfectly satisfied with the degree of attention you should from choice give her, and that she should be very happy in learning music, Italian, etc., while your avocations imploy'd you. . . . I told her that she would be so happy that I should be cut out, and she said tJiat if I did not come for her, or neglected her, she would certainly be grateful to you ; but that neither interest nor affection should ever induce her to change, unless my interest or ivish required it.' It should be noted that the previous sentences about Emma's alternatives are contradicted by those which set her down as only to be weaned from Greville by becoming a willing sacrifice to his 'interest.' Enclosed was Emma's own missive. ' Emboldened' by Sir William's kindness when he was in England, she re- capitulated the circumstances. Greville, ' whom you know I love tenderly,' is obliged to go for four or five months in the 'sumer' 'to places that I cannot with propriety attend him to' — here surely it is Greville who dictates? She has too great a ' regard for him to hinder him from pursuing those plans which,' .she thinks, ' it is right for him to follow.' As Hamilton was so good as to encourage her, she ' will speak her mind.' Firstly, she would be glad ' to be a little more improv'd,' and Greville 'out of kindness' had offered to dispense with her for the few months at the close of which he would come to ' fetch ' her home, and stay a while there when he comes, ' which I know you will be glad to see him.' He therefore proposed the ist of March for his own departure northward and hers to the south. She would be 'flattered' if Hamilton will 'allot' her an apartment in 'his house,' ' and lett Greville occupye those appartments when he comes ; you know that must be ; but as your house is very large, and you must, from the nature of your office, 88 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON have business to transact and visiters to see,' — here Greville dictates again — ' I shall always keep my own room when you are better engaged, and at other times I hope to have the pleasure of your company and conversation, which will be more agreable to me than anything in Italy. As I have given you an example of sincerity, I hope you will be equaly candid and sincere in a speedy answer. ... I shall be perfectly happy in any arrangements you will make, as I have full confidence in your kindness and attention to me. . . .' The must in this letter leaves no doubt that the per- manence of separation never crossed her mind. Greville's crystals, however, required a sacrifice, which for him she prided herself on making. On April 26 — her birthday — she duly arrived at the Palazzo Sessa.^ But she at once felt wretched away from the man she loved, and her sole comfort lay in forwarding his interest. ' It was my birthday, and I was very low spirited. Oh God ! that day that you used to smile on me and stay at home, and be kind to me — that that day I shou'd be at such a distance from you ! But my comfort is that I rely upon your promise, and September or October I shall see you ! But I am quite unhappy at not hearing from you — no letter for me yet, . . . but I must wait with patience.' 'I dreaded,' she continued later, 'setting down to write, for I try to appear as chearful before Sir William as I could, and I am sure to cry the moment I think of you.2 For I feel more and more unhappy at being separated from you, and if my fatal ruin depends on seeing you, I will and i^nust at the end of the sumer. For to live without you is imposible. I love you to that degree that at this time there is not a hardship upon hearth either of poverty, cold, death, or even to walk barefooted to Scotland to see ' Then the Embassy. For this information I am obliged to Mr. Neville- Rolfe, Consul-General at Naples. It was with difficulty that he identified the site .n the Vico Capella Vecchia. The Sessa family still owns the house. ^ Sir William had divined this probability the day before she arrived : — ' However, I will do as well as I can and hobble in and out of this pleasant scrape as decently as I can. You may be assured I will comfort her for the loss of you as well as I am able, but I know, from the small specimens during your absence from London, that I shall have at times many tears to wipe from those charming eyes.' — Morrison MS. 149, April 25, 1786. » 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 89 you, but what I wou'd undergo. Therefore my dear, dear Greville, if you do love me, for my sake, try all you can to come hear as soon as possible. You have a true friend in Sir William, and he will be happy to see you, and do all he can to make you happy ; and for me I will be everything you can wish for. I find it is not either a fine horse, or a fine coach, or a pack of servants, or plays or operas, can make [me] happy. It is you that [h]as it in your power either to make me very happy or very miserable. I respect Sir William, I have a great regard for him, as the uncle and friend of you, and he loves me, Greville. But he can never be anything nearer to me than your uncle and my sincere friend. He never can be my lover. You do not know how good Sir William is to me. He is doing every- thing he can to make me happy. . . .' ^ Her inmost soul speaks in these sentences. They ring true, and are without question outpourings of the heart on paper bedewed with tears. Sir William was indeed kind. He wanted to wean her from one who could thus have treated her. He was never out of her sight. He gazed on her ; he sighed ; he praised her every movement. He gave her presents and showed her all that romantic antiquity which he loved, understood, and explained so well. She had gazed on Posilippo, and was to revel in the villino at Caserta and the Posilippo villa, which soon bore her name. But carriage and liveries, ' like those of Mrs. Darner,' who had just left, a private boat, and baths under summer skies in summer seas — all these availed nothing with Greville absent. Her apartment was of four rooms fronting that en- chanted bay. The Ambassador's friends dined with her, and she sang for them :— ' Yes, last night we had a little concert. But then I was so low, for I wanted you to partake of our amusement. Sir Thomas Rumbold - is here with [h]is son who is dying of a decline, . . . and poor young man ! he cannot walk from the bed to the chair; and Lady Rumbold, like a tender-hearted wretch, is gone to Rome, to pass her time there with the English, and [h]as took the coach and ^ All the foregoing passages are to be found in tlie Morrison MS. of 17S4- 1786. "^ The enriched Nabob from Ceylon whose wealth caused a parliamentary scandal in 1782. Cf. Horace Walpole's Letters,^ vol. viii. pp. 216, 221. 90 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON all the English servants with her, and left poor Sir Thomas, with [h]is heart broken, waiting on [h]is sick son. You can't think what a worthy man he is. He dined with ous, and likes me very much, and every day [h]as brought [h]is carriage or phaeton . . . and carries me and mother and Sir William out.' None the less her heart stays with Greville. She is always helping him with Sir William, whose good will (in both senses of that word) makes her ' very happy for his sake. . . . But Greville, my dear Greville, wright some comfort to me.' ' Only remember your promise of October.' ^ This delusive October must have hung over Greville's head like a sword of Damocles, or Caesar's inevitable Ides of March. The sensation of Emma's first appearance in the kal- eidoscope of Naples, with its King of the Lazzaroni and Queen of the Illuminati, together with the conjunctures of affairs and men first witnessed by her, will find place in the next chapter. It was not many months before she was to exclaim to Greville, ' You do not know what power I have hear ' ; before Acton, the Premier, was to rally Sir William on 'a worthy and charming young lady.'- But now and here the climax of her emotions, when she first fully realised Greville's breach of faith and his real pur- pose in exiling her, must be reached without interruption. Even on the first of May, when his uncle told her in reply to her solicitude for Greville's welfare, that she might command anything from one who loved them both so dearly, ' I have had a conversation this morning,' she wrote, 'with Sir William that has made me mad. He speaks — no, I do not know what to make of it.' Three months went by, and still no letter came, except one to tell her how grateful was the nephew for the uncle's care ;^ and still Sir William looked and languished. The truth began to dawn upon her, but even now she dared not face, and would not believe it. At the close of July, when Naples drowses and melts in dreamy haze, she made her ^ Morrison MS. 150, April 30, 17S5. - Egerton MS. 2639, f. 12, March 10, 1787. ^ Alluded to in Greville's business note to Hamilton. Morrison MS. 15., May 1786. 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 91 last and piteous, though spirited, appeal. ' I am now onely writing to beg of you for God's sake to send me one letter, if it is onely a farewell. Sure I have deserved this for the sake of the love you once had for me. . . , Don't despise me. I have not used you ill in any one thing. I have been from you going of six months, and you have wrote one letter to me, enstead of which I have sent fourteen to you. So pray let me beg of you, my much loved Greville, only one line from your dear, dear hands. You don't know how thankful I shall be for it. For if you knew the misery I feel, oh ! your heart wou'd not be intirely shut up against me ; for I love you with the truest affection. Don't let any body sett you against me. Some of your friends — your foes perhaps, I don't know what to stile them — have long wisht me ill. But, Greville, you never will meet with any- body that has a truer affection for you than I have, and I onely wish it was in my power to shew you what I cou'd do for you. As soon as I know your determination, I shall take my own measures. If I don't hear from you, and that you are coming according to promise, I shall be in England at Cristmass at farthest. Don't be unhappy at that, I will see you once more for the last time. I find life is insup- portable without you. Oh ! my heart is intirely broke. Then for God's sake, my ever dear Greville, do write to me some comfort. I don't know what to do. I am now in that state, I am incapable of anything. I have a language- master, a singing-master, musick, etc., but what is it for? If it was to amuse you, I shou'd be happy. But, Greville, what will it avail me? I am poor, helpless, and forlorn. I have lived with you 5 years, and you have sent me to a strange place, and no one prospect but thinking you was coming to me. Instead of which I was told. . . . No, I respect him, but no, never. . . . What is to become of me? But excuse me, my heart is ful. I tel you give me one guiney a week for everything, and live with me, and I will be contented. But no more. I will trust to Providence, and wherever you go, God bless you, and preserve you, and may you allways be happy ! But write to Sir William. What [h]as he done to affront you ? ' ^ ' Morrison MS. 152, July 22, 1786. 92 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON She awaited Greville's orders. Sir William had com- missioned still another portrait of her from Romney ; ^ ' Angelaca ' was about to paint her ; she was ' so remarkably fair' that 'everybody' said she 'put on red and white'; Lord Hervey was her slave ; a foreign prince was in her train each evening ; the king was ' sighing ' for her. It was Greville's orders for which she waited. She had just visited Pompeii and viewed the wrecks of love and bloom and life unearthed by alien hands. Was here no moral for this distraught and heaving bosom ? And there that awful mountain lowered and threatened ruin every day. The Maltese Minister's house hard by had been struck by lightning. Like lurid Nature, Emma too was roused to fury, though, a microcosm of it also, she smiled between . the outbursts. What could she do but wait? Twelve days more; the order comes — 'Oblige Sir William! Her passion blazes up, indignant : ' . . . Nothing can express my rage. Greville, to advise me ! — you that used to envy my smiles ! How with cool indifference to advise me ! . . . Oh ! that is the worst of all. But I will not, no, I will not rage. If I was with you I wou'd murder you and myself boath. I will leave of[f] and try to get more strength, for I am now very ill with a cold. ... I won't look back to what I wrote . . . Nothing shall ever do for me but going home to you. If that is not to be, I will except of nothing I will go to London, their go into every excess of vice till I dye, a miserable, broken-hearted wretch, and leave my fate as a warning to young whomen never to be two good; for now you have made me love you, you made me good, you have abbandoned me ; and some violent end shall finish our connexion, if it is to finish. But oh! Greville, you cannot, you must not give me up. You have not the heart to do it. You love me I am sure ; and I am willing to do every- thing in my power, and what will you have more ? And I only say this is the last time I will either beg or pray, do as you like.' — ' I always knew, I had a foreboding since first I began to love you, that I was not destined to be happy ; for their is not a King or Prince on hearth that cou'd make me happy without you.' — ' Little Lord Brooke is dead. Poor little boy, how I envy him his happiness.' ^ The second ' Bacchante,' lost in the Colossus in 1799. ' WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES ' 93 She had been degraded in her own eyes, and by the lover whom she had heroised. Was this, then, the reward of modesty regained ; of love returned, of strenuous effort, of hopes for her child, and a home purified ? Her idol lay prone, dashed from its pedestal, with feet of clay. And yet this did not harden her. Though she could not trust, she still believed in him as in some higher power who chastens those he loves. Her paroxysms passed to return again : — ' ... It is enough, I have paper that Greville wrote on. He [h]as folded it up. He wet the wafer. How I envy thee the place of Emma's lips, that would give worlds, had she them, to kiss those lips ! . . . I onely wish that a wafer was my onely rival. But I suhnit to what God and Greville pleases! Even now she held him to his word. ' I have such a headache with my cold, I don't know what to do. ... I can't lett a week go without telling you how happy I am at hearing from you. Pray, write as often as you can. If you come, we shall all go home together. . . . Pray write to me, and don't write in the stile of a freind, but a lover. For I won't hear a word of freind. Sir William is ever freind. But we are lovers. I am glad you have sent me a blue hat and gloves. . .' For many years she cherished Greville's friendship. She wrote to him perpetually after the autumn of this year saw Sir William win her heart as well as will by his tenderness, and by her thought of advancing the ingrate nephew himself. Never did she lose sight of Greville's interests during those fourteen future years at Naples. She lived to thank Greville for having made Sir William known to her, to be proud of her achievements as his eleve. But at the same time in these few months a larger horizon was already opening. She had looked on a bigger world, and ambition was awakening within her. She had seen royalty and statesmen, and she began to feel that she might play a larger part. Under Greville's yoke she had been ready to pinch and slave ; with Sir William she would rule. ' Pray write,' she concludes one of her Greville letters, ' for nothing will make me so angry, and it is not to your intj'est to disoblidge me, for you don't know,' she adds with point, 'the power I have hear. . . . If you affront me,' 94 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON she prophesies (not threatens, as has been represented), ' / will make him marry me. God bless you for ever.'^ And amid all her tumult of disillusionment, of un- certainty, of bewilderment in the new influence she was visibly wielding over new surroundings, she remained the more mindful of those oldest friends who had believed her good, and enabled her to feel good herself. Sir William, wishful to retain for her the outside comforts of virtue, hastened to gratify her by inviting Romney and Hayley to Naples. The disappointment caused by Romney's inability to comply with a request dear to him ^ threw her back on herself, and made her feel lonelier than ever ; her mother was her great consolation. And what was Greville's attitude ? These Emma-letters would have been tumbled into his waste-paper basket with the fourteen others that remain, had he not returned them to Hamilton with the subjoined and private comment : — ' Uoubli de rinclus est volant, fixez-le : si on admet le ton de la vertu sans la verite', on est la dupe, et j'e place naturellemejtt tout siir le pied vrai, comme J'ai toujours fait, et je constate IVtat actual sans me reporter a vous! ^ One must not be duped by the tone without the truth of virtue ! The ' self- respect,' then, instilled by him, was never designed to raise her straying soul ; it was a makeshift contrived to steady her erring steps — a mere bridge between goodness and its opposite, which he would not let her cross ; though neither would he let her throw herself over it into the troubled and muddy depths below : it was a bridge built for his own retreat. Greville recked of no ' truth ' but hard ' facts,' which he looked unblushingly in the face, nor did his essence harbour one flash or spark of idealism. And still he purposed her welfare, as he understood it ; he had sought to kill three birds with one stone. Hamilton, for all his faults, was never a sophist of such compromise. For Emma 1 Morrison MS. 153, August i, 1786. Some of the sentences are quoted in the order ol feeling ^n<.\ not of sequence. Emma seldom wrote long letters in a single day. - Romney had been very ill. In his answer (August 1786) he hopes 'in a weke or to, to be upon my pins (I cannot well call them legs), as you know at best they are very poor ones.' — Cf. Ward and Roberts's Rotnney, vol. i. p. 67. '" Morrison MS. 154, October 24, 1786. The '/a' is Greville's. 'WHAT GOD, AND GREVILLE, PLEASES' 95 he purposed a state of life above its semblance, and a strength beyond its frail supports ; already he desired that she would consent to be, in all but name, his wife. Greville, certain of her good nature, had dreaded per- manence ; Hamilton, if all went smoothly, meant it. Yet Greville exacted friendship without affection. His French postscript was designed to escape Emma's comprehension, though a month or so later it could not have succeeded in doing so. But the letter itself contained some paragraphs which he intended her to study : — ' . . . I shall hope to manage to all our satisfaction, for I so long foresaw that a moment of separation must arrive, that I never kept the connexion, but on the footing of perfect liberty to her. Its commencement was not of my seeking, and hitherto it has contributed to her happiness. She knows and reflects often on the circumstances which she cannot forget, and in her heart she cannot reproach me of having acted otherwise than a kind and attentive friend. But you have now rendered it possible for her to be respected and comfortable, rt:;^^ if she has not talked herself out of the true vieiv of her situation she will retain the protection and affectiofi of us both. For after all, consider what a charming creature she would have been if she had been blessed with the advantages of an early education, and had not been spoilt by the indulgence of every caprice. I never was irritated by her momentary passions, for it is a good heart which will not part with a friend in anger ; and yet it is true that when her pride is hurt by neglect or anxiety for the future, the frequent repition \sic\ of her passion ballances the beauty of the smiles. If a person knew her and could live for life with her, by an economy of attention, that is by constantly renew- ing very little attentions, she would be happy and good \Q.^cc\i^tx'^,for she has not a grain of avarice or self-interest. . . . Knowing all this, infinite have been my pains to make her respect herself, and act fairly, and I had always proposed to continue her friend, altJid the connexion ceased. I had pro- posed to make her accept and manage your kind provision,^ and she would easily have adopted that plan ; it was acting ^ Sir William offered to settle ;i^ioo annually, and Greville a like sum, on her. Roinney was to have been a trustee. 96 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the part of good woman, a7id to offer to put her regard to any test, and to show that she contributed to MY happiness, by accepting the provision ... it would not have hurt her pride, and would have been a line of heroicks more natural, because it arose out of the real situatioft, than any which by con- versation she might persuade herself suited her to act. Do not understand the word " act " other than I mean it. We all [act] well when we suit our actions to the real situation, and conduct them by truth and good intention. We act capriciously and inconveniently to others when our actions are founded on an imaginary plan which does not place the persons involved in the scene in their real situations. . . . If Mrs. Wells had quarrell'd with Admiral Keppell, she would never have been respected as she now is. ... If she will put me on the footing of a friend . . . she will write to me fairly on her plans, she will tell me her thoughts, and her future shall be my serious concern. . . . She has conduct and discernment, and I have always said that such a woman, if she controul her passions, might rule the roost, and chuse her station.' Thus /Eneas-Greville, of Dido-Emma, to his trusty Achates. Surely a self-revealing document of sense and blindness, of truth and falsehood, one, moreover, did space allow, well worth longer excerpts. He excused his action in his own eyes even more elaborately, over and over again. He would conscientiously fulfil his duty to her and hers, if only she would accept his view of her own 'duty' towards him ; his tone admitted of few obligations beyond mutual interest. He never reproached either her or himself: he thought him- self firm, not cruel ; he remained her good friend and well- wisher, her former rescuer, a father to her child. 'Heroicks' were out of place and out of taste. He again held up to her proud imitation the prime pattern of ' Mrs. Wells.' He was even willing that she should return home, if so she chose ; but his terms were irrevocably fixed, and it was use- less for her to hystericise against adamant. But he did not reckon with the latent possibilities of her being. The sequel was to prove not ' what Greville,' but what ' God pleases.' CHAPTER V APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 1787-1791 What was the new prospect on which Emma's eyes first rested in March 1786? Goethe has described it. A fruitful land, a free, blue sea, the scented islands, and the smoking mountain. A population of vegetarian craftsmen busy to enjoy with hand-to-mouth labour. A people holding their teeming soil under a lease on sufferance from earthquake and volcano. An inflammable mob, whose king lost six thousand subjects annually by assassination, and whose brawls and battles of vendetta would last three hours at a time.^ An upper class of feudal barons proud and ignorant. A lower class of half-beggars, at once lazy, brave, and insolent, who, if they misliked the face of a foreign inquirer, would stare in silence and turn away. A middle class of literati despising those above and below them. A race of tillers and of fishermen alternating between pious supersti- tion and reckless revel, midway, as it were, between God and Satan.^ The bakers celebrating their patron, Saint Joseph ; the priests their childlike ' saint-humorous,' San Filippo Neri ; high and low alike, their civic patrons, Saints Anthony and Januarius, whose liquefying blood each January propitiated Vesuvius.^ Preaching Friars, dreaming Friars ; singing, ' Cf. Life and Letters of the first Earl of Mittto, vol. ii. p. 364. In their fight with the ' Sberri,' Sir William's courtyard gave them refuge, and there Emma's humanity had full play. '-' Goethe's own expression in the Italian Journey. ^ On the outbreak of the French Revolution, the latter saint being accused of Jacobinism, his statue was solemnly tried in open court and condemned. G 98 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON sceptical, enjoying Abbes. A country luxuriant not only with southern growths, but garlanded even in February by banks of wild violets and tangles of wild heliotrope and sweet-peas.^ A spirit of Nature, turning dread to beauty, and beauty into dread. She sits, her head leaned against her hand, and gazes through the open casement on a scene bathed in southern sun and crystal air — the pure air, the large glow, the light soil that made Neapolis the pride of Magna Graecia. Her room — it is Goethe himself who describes it - — * furnished in the English taste,' is ' most delightful ' ; ^ the 'outlook from its corner window, unique.' Below, the bay ; in full view, Capri ; on the right, Posilippo ; nearer the highroad, Villa Reale the royal palace ; on the left an ancient Jesuit cloister, which the queen had dedi- cated to learning ; hard by on either side, the twin strong- holds of Ovo and Nuovo, and the busy, noisy Molo, overhung by the fortress of San Elmo on the frowning crag ; further on, the curving coast from Sorrento to Cape Minerva. And all this varied vista, from the centre of a densely thronged and clattering city. The whirlwind of passion sank, and gradually yielded to calm, as Greville had predicted. ' Every woman,' com- mented this astute observer, resenting the mention of his name at Naples, ' either feels or acts a part ' ; and change of dramatis personcB was necessary, he added, 'to make Emma happy' and himself 'free.'* But his careful pre- scription of the immaculate ' Mrs. Wells ' only partially succeeded. True, the elderly friend was soon to become the attached lover, and the prudential lover a forgiven friend ; but he ceased henceforward to be ' guide ' or ' philosopher,' and gradually faded into a minor actor in the drama, though never into a supernumerary. She felt, as she told Sir William, forlorn ; her trust had been betrayed and rudely shaken. What she longed for was a friend, and ^ Cf. Life and Letters of the First Earl of Mtnto. • Italienische Reise. Works, vol. xix. p. 220. No one has written a better account of the Neapolitans in the spring and summer of 17S7. - 'AUerliebst.' ■• Morrison MS. 154. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 99 she could never simulate what she did not feel.^ His gentle respect, his chivalry, contrasting with Greville's cynical taskmastership, his persuasive endearments, eventu- ally won the day ; and by the close of the year Emma's heart assented to his suit. Her eyes had been opened." To him she 'owed everything.' He was to her 'every kind name in one.' ' I believe,' she assured him this year, ' it is right I shou'd be seperated from you sometimes, to make me know myself, for I don't know till you are absent, how dear you are to me' ; she implores one little line just that she 'may kiss' his 'name.'^ Sir William at fifty- six retained that art of pleasing which he never lost ; and she was always pleased to be petted and shielded. Even before the opening of 1787 she had already mastered the language and the society of Naples. Disobedient to his nephew, and his niece Mrs. Dickenson, who remonstrated naturally but in vain, Sir William insisted on her 'doing the honours,' which she astonished him by managing, as he thought, to perfection. Every moment spared from receiv- ing or giving hospitalities in the Palazzo Sessa* was filled by strenuous study at home, or in the adjoining Convent of Santa Romita. Her captivating charm, her quick tact, her impulsive friendliness, her entertaining humour, her natural taste for art, which, together with her ' kindness and intelli- gence,' had already been acknowledged by Romney as a source of inspiration ; -'' her unique ' Attitudes,' her voice which, under Galluci's tuition, she was now beginning 'to ^ Cf. her very striking letter to Hamilton, Morrison MS. 163 : '. . . Do you call me your dear friend? . . . Oh, if I cou'd express myself! If I had words to thank you, that I may not thus be choaked with meanings, for which I can find no utterance ! ' etc. - ' But now I have my wisdom teeth.' — Morrison MS. 157. ^ Ibid. 164. ^ So far from this house l)cing, as has been put forward, the present Embassy, it did not even remain the habitation of Hamilton's successors, Paget, Elliot, and Bentinck. Writing to Emma from Naples in 1804, Nelson says: ' \'our house has become a hotel.' '•' Cf. Hayley's letter to her of May 17, 1804 (cited by I'ettigrew, vol. ii. p. 596) : ' Vou were not only his model but his iiispirer, and he truly and grate- fully said, hat he owed a great part of his felicity as a painter to the angelic kindness and intelligence with which you used to animate his diffident and tremulous spirits to the grandest efforts of art.' lOo EMMA, LADY HAMILTON command,' even her free and easy manners when con- trasted with those of the Neapolitan noblesse, all seemed miracles, broke down the easy barriers of susceptible southerners, and gained her hosts of ' sensible admirers.' So early as February 1787 Sir William reported to his nephew : ' . . . Our dear Em. goes on now quite as I cou'd wish, and is universally beloved' — a phrase which Emma herself repeated ten months later to her first mentor, with the proud consciousness of shining at a distance before him. 'She is wonderful!,' added Hamilton, 'considering her youth and beauty, and I flatter myself that E. and her Mother are happy to be with me, so that I see my every wish fulfilled.' By the August of this year, when she first wrote Italian, she saw 'good company,' she delighted the whole diplomatic circle ; Sir William was indissociable ; she used the familiar 'we' — ^ our honsQ at Caserta is fitted up,' while Sir William followed suit.^ The very servants styled her ' Eccellenza.' Her attached Ambassador ' is distractedly in love ' ; 'he deserves it, and indeed I love him dearly.' There was not a grain in her of inconstancy. ' He is so kind, so good and tender to me,' she wrote as Emma Hart, in an unpublished letter,- 'that I love him so much that I have not a warm look left for the Neapolitans.' His evenings, he wrote, were sweet with song and admiring guests, while her own society rendered them a 'comfort.' Inclination went on steadily ripening, until it settled within three years into deep mutual fond- ness. He fitted up for her a new boudoir in the Naples house with its round mirrors, as Miss Knight has recorded,^ covering the entire side of the wall opposite the semi- circular window, and reflecting the moonlit bay with its glimmering boats, the glass tanks with their marine treasures of 'sea-oranges' and the like. Within a year Hamilton tells Greville that she asks him 'Do you love me, aye, but as much as your new apartment ? ' — both here and at Caserta. He did his best to ' form ' her, and in the course of time she was able to share his botanical studies, ^^ ^ Morrison MS. 174, - May 17, 1804. From an excerpt in one of Messrs. Sotheby's catalogues, June 1905. ^ Miss Knight's Diary, vol. i. p. 251. __ J APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE loi which they pursued not as ' pedantlcal prigs ' to air learning, but with zeal and pleasure in the early mornings and fresh air of the 'English' gardens. Her aptitude and adaptive- ness worked wonders. Within a year she was able to take an intelligent interest in the preparation of the virtuoso's new volume on Etruscan Urns — a progress promptly reported by him to his old crony Sir Joseph Banks, who greeted it cordially.^ She aided his volcanic observations; Sir William laughed, and said she would rival him with the mountain now.2 Both had already stayed with, and she had en- chanted, the Duke and Duchess of St. Maitre at Sorrento, the musical Countess of Mahoney at Ischia ; cries of ' Una donna rara^ ' bellissinia creatura' were on every mouth. The Duke of Gloucester begged Hamilton to favour him with her acquaintance.^ The Olympian Goethe himself beheld and marvelled. Her unpretending naivete* won her adherents at every step. ' All the female nobility, with the queen at their head,' were 'distantly civil' to her already ; none rude to Emma were allowed within the precincts. Meddlers or censors were sent roundly to the right-about, and informed that she was the sweetest, the best, the cleverest creature in the world. When he returned from his periodical ro}al wild-boar chases, it was Emma again who brewed his punch and petted him. Now and again there peeps out also that half voluptuous tinge in her wifeliness which never wholly deserted her. She had been Greville's devoted slave ; Sir William was already hers. Her monitor had repulsed her free sacrifice and urged it for his own advantage towards his uncle ; but her ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 2641, f. 139, and cf. ft". 137, 141, 146. 'I rejoice to hear that she proceeds with diligence and success in her improvement. Her beauty will I hope, last as long as she can wish ; but her mind, when once stored with instruc- tion and amusement, will certainly last as long as she stays this side Heaven.' — November 1787. - Morrison MS. 164. ■' Morrison MS. 166. lust before Emma's arrival the Duke of Cumberland had also been there with Lord Ferrers and the ill-starred gamestress, Lady Elizabeth Lutlrell. Cf. Ibid. 148. On the Duke of Gloucester's return home King George's family dissensions were renewed. Says Henry Swinburne, Greville's friend and Hamilton's at Naples: 'The poor king will act the part of the enraged musician, but the nation will pay the piper.' — Ibid. 179. ^ This point i.^ .specially emphasised afterwards by Sir William. 102 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON worshipper had now fanned not so much the flame, perhaps, as the incense of her unfeigned ^ attachment. The English dined with her while Sir William was away shooting with the king. She trilled Handel and Paisicllo, learned French, Italian, music, dancing, design,- and history.^ Hamilton was himself musical, and used to accom- pany her voice — of which he was a good judge — on the viola. She laughed at the foibles and follies of the court ; she retailed to him the gossip of the hour. She entered into his routine and protected his interests ; she prevented him from being pestered or plundered.* Only a few years, and she was dictating etiquette even to an English nobleman.^ It was a triumphal progress which took the town by storm ; her beauty swept men off their feet. The trans- formations of these eighteen months, which lifted her out of her cramped nook at Paddington into a wide arena, read like a dream, or one of those Arabian fairy-tales where peasants turn princes in an hour. Nor is the least surprise, among many, the thought that these dissolving views present themselves as adventures of admired virtue, and not as unsanctioned escapades. At Naples the worst of her past seemed buried, and she could be born again. Her accent, her vulgarisms mattered little ; she spoke to new friends in a new language. The ' lovely woman ' who had 'stooped to folly, and learned too late that men betray,' seems rather to have ' stooped to conquer ' by the approved methods of the same Goldsmith's heroine. The scene of her d^but is that of Opera, all moonlight, - Cf. Morrison MS. 164, 17S7 (Emma to Sir William): '. . . My com- forter in distress. Then why shall I not love you. Endead I must and ought whilst life is left in me or reason to think on you. . . . My heart and eyes fill. ... I owe everything to you, and shall ever with grattitude remember it. . . .' And cf. ibid. 172, 1788 :'...! love Sir William, for he renounces all for me.' "^ * Drawing,' she says in one of her letters, comes ' easy as A, B, C * Cf. The Life and Letters of the first Earl of Minto, vol. ii. p. 364. He calls her (in 1796) ' the most extraordinary compound I ever beheld.' ' All Nature, and yet all Art'; 'manners perfectly unpolished.' But 'one wonders at the application and pains she has taken to make herself what she is.' Displeased at her manner and figure, he allows her * considerable natural understanding ' and ' excessive good humour.' ^ Cf. inter alia for the foregoing Morrison MS. 160, 168, 171, 172. '•' Macartney. For Horace Walpole's mean opinion of him, cf. Letters, vol. viii. p. 131. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 103 flutter, music, and masquerade. Escaping in the cool of the evening from her chambers, thronged by artists, wax- modellers, and intaglio-cutters, she attends Sir William's evening saunter in the royal gardens at the fashionable hour. Her complexion so much resembles apple-blossom, that beholders question it, although she neither paints nor powders. Dapper Prince Dietrichstein from Vienna (' Dray- drixton ' in her parlance as in Acton's) attends her as ^ cavaliere servente,' whispering to her in broken English that she is a ' diamond of the first water.' Two more princes and 'two or three nobi. ' follow at her heels. She wears a loose muslin gown, the sleeves tied in folds with blue ribbon and trimmed with lace, a blue sash and the big blue hat which Greville has sent her as peace- offering. Beyond them stand the king, the queen, the minister Acton, and a brilliant retinue. That queen, care- worn but beautiful, who already 'likes her much,' has begged the Austrian beau to walk near her that she may get a glimpse of his fair companion, the English girl, who is a 'modern antique.' 'But Greville,' writes Emma, 'the king [h]as eyes, he [h]as a heart, and I have made an impression on it. But I told the prince, Hamilton is my friend, and she belongs to his nephew, for all our friends know it.'^ Only last Sunday that ' Roi d'Yvetot' had dined at Posilippo, mooring his boat by the casements of Hamilton's country casino for a nearer view. This garden- house is already named the 'Villa Emma,' and there for Emma a new 'music-room' is building. Emma and the Ambassador had been entertaining a 'diplomatick party.' They issue forth beneath the moon to their private boat. At once the monarch places his * boat of musick ' next to theirs. His band of 'French Horns' strikes up a serenade for the queen of hearts. The king removes his hat, sits with it on his knees, and 'when going to land,' bows and says, ' it was a sin he could not speak English.' She has him in her train every evening at San Carlo, villa, or promenade ; she is the cynosure of each day, and the toast of every night. Or, again, she entertains informally at Sorrento, all • Morrison MS. 152, July 22, 17S6. I04 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON orange-blossom in February, after an afternoon of rambling donkey-rides near flaming Vesuvius, and visits to grandees in villeggiatura. In one room sits Sir William's orchestra ; in the other she receives their guests. At last her turn comes round to sing ; she chooses * Luce Bella,' ^ in which the Banti makes such a furore at San Carlo, that famous Banti - who had already marvelled at the tone and com- pass of her voice,^ when in fear and trembling she had been induced to follow her. As she ceases, there is a ten minutes' round of applause, a hubbub of ' Bravas' and ^ Ancoras! And then she performs in 'buffo' — 'that one' (and Greville knew it) ' with a Tambourin,^ in the char- acter of a young girl with a raire-shew [raree-show], the pretiest thing you ever heard.' He must concede her triumph, the hard, unruffled man ! She turns the heads of the Sorrentines ; she leaves ' some dying, some crying, and some in despair. Mind you, this was all nobility, as proud as the devil ' ; but — and here brags the people's daughter — ' we humbled them ' ; ' but what astonished them was that I shou'd speak such good Italian. For I paid them, I spared non[e] of them, tho' I was civil and oblidging. One asked me if I left a love at Naples, that I left them so soon. I pulled my lip at him, to say, " I pray, do you take me for an Italian ? . . . Look, sir, I am English. I have one Cavaliere servente, and I have brought him with me," pointing to Sir William.' Hart, the English musician, wept to hear her sing an air by Handel, pronouncing that in her the tragic and comic Muses were so happily blended that Garrick would have been enraptured.^ These were the very qualities that even thus early distinguished her self- ^ Another of her songs at this time was ' Per pieta da questa instante non parlarmi, O Dio d'Amor.' ^ The Banti's will directed that her larynx should be preserved in spirits ; and it is still in the Medical Museum of Bologna. ' Long afterwards, Lord Moira told Mr. R. Payne Knight that he ' reckoned the having heard her sing an epoch in his life,' and that she gave him 'ideas of the power of expression in music which he should never otherwise have con- ceived.' Cf. the letter quoted by Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 692. Sir Brooke Boothby was equally enthusiastic. ^ There is a drawing of her in this character by William Lock the amateur, and afterwards Consul at Palermo. * Morrison MS. 163. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 105 taught ' Attitudes,' by common consent of all beholders a marvel of artistic expression and refinement. Goethe, at this moment in Naples, and certainly no biassed critic, was an eye-witness. He had been introduced by his friends, the German artists,^ to the Maecenas Ambassador and ' his Emma.'^ He thus records his impressions : — '. . . The Chevalier Hamilton, so long resident here as English Ambassador, so long, too, connoisseur and student of Art and Nature, has found their counterpart and acme with exquisite delight in a lovely girl — English, and some twenty years of age. She is exceedingly beautiful and finely built. She wears a Greek garb^ becoming her to perfection. She then merely loosens her locks, takes a pair of shawls,'' and effects changes of postures, moods, gestures, mien, and appearance that make one really feel as if one were in some dream. Here is visible complete, and bodied forth in move- ments of surprising variety, all that so many artists have sought in vain to fix and render. Successively standing, kneeling, seated, reclining, grave, sad, sportive, teasing, abandoned, penitent, alluring, threatening, agonised. One follows the other, and grows out of it. She knows how to choose and shift the simple folds of her single kerchief for every expression, and to adjust it into a hundred kinds of headgear. Her elderly knight holds the torches for her performance, and is absorbed in his soul's desire. In her he finds the charm, of all antiques, the fair profiles on Sicilian coins, the Apollo Belvedere himself . . . We have already rejoiced in the spectacle two evenings. Early to-morrow Tischbein paints her.' •'' ' Tischbein, Hackerl, and Andreas, who were all busy painting Emma. — Morrison MS. 157, 159, 162. " ' Do you call me your dear friend ? Ah I what a happy creature is your Emma — me that had no friend, no protector, nobody that I cou'd trust, and now to be the freind, llie Emma of Sir William Hamilton.' — Morrison MS. 165. ' Perhaps the ' Turkish dress' mentioned by her in a letter of this period. ■* The 'camel' ones that she had in London, and often requested Greville to forward to her at Naples. Sir William presented her with one immediately on her arrival. * Goethe, Ifalienische Rcise, March 16, 1787, IVorks, vol. xix. p. 212. With this appreciation of P^mma's ' Attitudes ' should be joined both Romney's, cited towards the close of this chapter, Lady Malmesbury's and Lady Elliot's io6 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON There are less familiar references also in the Italian Journey. On Goethe's return from Sicily in May, the author of Werther, occupied with the art, the peasant life, and the geology of the neighbourhood, renewed his acquaintance with the pair and acknowledges their kind- nesses. He dined with them again. Sir William favoured him with a view of his excavated treasures in the odd ' vault,' where statues and sarcophagi, bronze candelabra and busts, lay disarranged and jumbled. Among them Goethe noticed an upright, open chest ' rimmed exquisitely with gold, and large enough to contain a life-size figure in its dark, inner background.' Sir William explained how Emma, attired in bright Pompeiian costume, had stood motionless inside it with an effect in the half-light even more striking than her grace as ' moving statue.' Goethe, ever curious, was now keenly interested in studying the superstitions of the Neapolitan peasantry, including the realistic shows of manger and Magi with which they celebrated Christmas-tide, In these, living images were intermixed with coloured casts of clay. And he hazards the remark — while deprecating it from the lips of a contented guest — that perhaps 'Miss Harte' was at root not more than such a living image — a tableau vivant. Per- chance, he muses, the main lack of his 'fair hostess' is ' geist' or soulfulness of mind. Her dumb shows, he adds, were naturally unvoiced, and voice alone expresses spirit. Even her admired singing he then thought deficient in ' fulness.' 1 Had Goethe, however, known her whole nature, he would have owned that if she were ^geistlos' in the highest sense, she was never dull, and was to prove the reverse of soulless ; while he, of all men, would have (1792 and 1796. Cf. The Life and Letters of the first Earl of Minto, vol. i. p. 406 ; vol. ii. p. 364). The former says : ' The most graceful statues or pic- tures do not give you an idea of them. Her dancing the Tarantella is beautiful to a degree'; and the latter '. . , singles out her " refined taste" and "extra- ordinary talent."' And also Madame Le Brun's ^/fi^«o/>^, p. 69. She invited the Dues de Berri and de Bourbon to see them in 1803. She had prepared 'a very large frame with a screen on either side of it,' and 'a strong limelight disposed so that it could not be seen.' ' She changed from grief to joy, and from joy to terror so rapidly and effectively that we were all enchanted.' So too even Mrs. St. George in her Journal. ^ Worksy vol. xx. pp. 12, 13. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 107 admired not only her enthusiasm but her more practical qualities. Did he, perhaps, in after years recall this mute and lovely vision when her name, for good or ill, had entered history? At any rate, though neither Hamilton nor Emma has noticed him in existing letters, they both endure on Goethe's pages ; and to have impressed Goethe was even then no easy task. That the creator of Iphigenia and Tasso was deeply impressed is proved by another and better known passage, where after praising Hamilton as ' a man of universal taste, who has roamed through all the realms of creation,' and has ' made a beautiful existence which he enjoys in the evening of life,' he adds that Emma is 'a masterpiece of the Arch- Artist.'^ To resume our dissolving views : a priest begs her picture on a box, which he clasps to his bosom. A countess weeps when she departs. The Russian empress hears her fame, and orders her portrait. Commodore Mel- ville gives a dinner to thirty on board his Dutch frigate in her honour, and seats her at the head as ' mistress of the feast' She is robed ' all in virgin white,' her hair ' in ringlets reaching almos: to her heels,' so long, that Sir William says she ' look't and moved amongst it.' She has soon learned by rote the little ways of the big world, and whispers to him that it is gala night at San Carlo, and de rigiieiir to reach their box before the royal party entered their neighbouring one. The guns salute ; the pinnace starts amid laughter, song, and roses, while off she speeds to semi-royal triumphs — 'as tho' I was a queen.' Serena's wholesome lesson is being half forgotten. Once more, Vesuvius 'looks beautiful,' with its lava- streams descending far as Portici. She climbs the peak of fire at midnight — five miles of flame ; the peasants deem the mountain ' burst.' The climbers seek the shelter of the Hermit's cabin — that strange Hermit who had thus retired to .solitude and exile for love of a princess.'- Has she not spirit? Let Greville mark : 'For me, I was enraptured. I could have staid all night there, and I have never been in ^ Works^ vol. xix. p. 220. ^ Alexandre Sauveur, who dared to love the Princess of Prussia. Cf. Memoirs of CottnUss Lichtciiau (Colburn, 1S09), vol. i. p. 69. io8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON charity with the moon since, for it looked so pale and sickly. And the red-hot lava served to light up the moon, for the light of the moon was nothing to the lava.' Ascending, she meets the Prince-Royal. His ' foolish tuters,' fearful of their charge's safety and their own, escort him only half way, and allow him but three minutes for the sight. She asks him how he likes it. '■Bella, ma poca roba^ replies the lad. Five hundred yards higher he could have watched ' the noblest, sublimest sight in the world.' But the ' poor frightened creatures ' beat ' a scared ' retreat : ' O, I shall kill myself with laughing ! ' And is not the plebeian girl schooling herself to be a match for crass blue blood ? ' Their as been a prince paying us a visit. He is sixty years of age, one of the first families, and as allways lived at Naples; and when I told him I had been at Caprea, he asked me if I went there by land. Only think what ignorance ! I staired at him, and asked him who was his tutor,' coolly remarks the feinme savante who writes of * as ' and ' stair.' ^ She cannot tear her eyes away from the volcano's awful pageant. She takes one of her maids — 'a great biggot' — up to her house-top and shows her the conflagration. The contadina drops on her knees, calling on the city's patron saints: ' 0 Janaro [sic] mio, O Antonio mio!^ Emma falls down on hers, exclaiming, ' O Santa Loola inia, Loola mia ! ' Teresa rises, and with open eyes inquires whether ' her Excellency' doubts the saints. 'No,' replies her mistress in Italian, 'it is quite the same if you pray to my own " Loola." ' ' . . . She look't at me, and said, to be sure, I read a great many books and must know more than her. But she says, "Does not God favour you more than ous?" Says I, no. "O God," says she, "your eccellenza is very ungratefull ! He as been so good as to make your face the same as he made the face of the Blessed Virgin's, and ^ Emma, however, was not alone in her censure of the less instructed majority of the countless Neapolitan nobility. The cultivated Marchesa di Solari says the same of them, always excepting their musical instinct: ' There is little or no difference between the manners of the lazzaroni and of the ancient nobility, except such of them as have travelled. ' — Venice under the Yoke of France and Austria, vol. ii. p. 85. Their profligacy, too, seems to have been quite mirthlcbs. Lady Hamilton dancing the Tarantella at Naples. From a rare engravi^tf; after a draiuing by Lock. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 109 you don't esteem it a favour!" " Why," says I, "did you ever see the Virgin?" "O yes," says she, "you are like every picture that there is of her, and you know the people at Iscea fel down on their knees to you, and beg'd you to grant them favours in her name." And, Greville, it is true that they have all got it in their heads that I am like the Virgin, and — do come to beg favours of me. Last night there was two preists came to my house, and Sir William made me put a shawl over my head, and look up, and the preist burst into tears and kist my feet, and said God had sent me a purpose.'^ Emma is in vein indeed. How buoyantly she swims and splashes on the rising tide ! How exuberantly the whole breathes of I always knew I could, if opportunity but walked towards me! ' and of ' I will show Greville what a pearl he has cast away ! ' Although she could be diffident when matched with genuine excellence or before those she loved, how the blare of her trumpet drowns all the still small voices ! One is reminded of Woollett, the celebrated eighteenth century engraver, who was in the habit of firing off a small cannon from the roof of his house every time he had finished a suc- cessful plate. What a profuse medley of candour and con- trivance, of simplicity and vanity, of commonness and elegance, of courtesy and challenge, of audacity and courage, of quick-wittedness and ignorance, of honest kindness and honest irreverence ! She is already a born actress of realities, and on no mimic stage. Yet many of her faults she fully felt, and held them curable. ' Patienza,' she sighs, and time may mend them ; in her own words of this very period, ' I am a pretty woman, and one cannot be everything at once.' But a more delicate strain is audible when her heart is really touched. At the convent whither she resorted for dail>' lessons during Sir William's absence, now transpired an idyl which must be repeated just as she describes it : — ' I had hardly time to thank you for your kind letter of this morning as I was buisy prcpairing for to go on my visit * Morrison MS. i68, August 17S7; 158, November 1786. no EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to the Convent of Santa Romita ; and endead I am glad I went, tho' it was a short visit. But to-morrow I dine with them in full assembly. I am quite charmed with Beatrice Acquaviva, Such is the name of the charming whoman I saw to-day. Oh Sir William, she is a pretty whoman. She is 29 years old. She took the veil at twenty ; and does not repent to this day, though if I am a judge in physiognomy, her eyes does not look like the eyes of a nun. They are allways laughing, and something in them vastly alluring, and I wonder the men of Naples wou'd suffer the oneley pretty whoman who is realy pretty to be shut in a convent. But it is like the mean-spirited ill taste of the Neapolitans, I told her I wondered how she wou'd be lett to hide herself from the world, and I daresay thousands of tears was shed the day she deprived Naples of one of its greatest ornaments. She answered with a sigh, that endead numbers of tears was shed, and once or twice her resolution was allmost shook, but a pleasing comfort she felt at regain- ing her friends that she had been brought up with, and religious considerations strengthened her mind, and she parted with the world with pleasure. And since that time one of her sisters had followed her example, and another — which I saw — was preparing to enter soon. But neither of her sisters is so beautiful as her, tho' the[y] are booth very agreable. But I think Beatrice is charming, and I realy feil for her an affection. Her eyes, Sir William, is I don't know how to describe them. I stopt one hour with them ; and I had all the good things to eat, and I promise you they don't starve themselves. But there dress is very be- coming, and she told me that she was allow'd to wear rings and mufs and any little thing she liked, and endead she display'd to-day a good deal of finery, for she had 4 or 5 dimond rings on her fingers, and seemed fond of her muff. She has excellent teeth, and shows them, for she is allways laughing. She kissed my lips, cheeks, and forehead, and every moment exclaimed "Charming, fine creature," admired my dress, said I looked like an angel, for I was in clear white dimity and a blue sash.' (This, surely, is scarcely the seraphic garb as the great masters imaged it.) '. . . She said she had heard I was good to the poor, generous, and APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE iii noble-minded. " Now," she says, " it wou'd be worth wile to live for such a one as you. Your good heart wou'd melt at any trouble that befel me, and partake of one's greef or be equaly happy at one's good fortune. But I never met with a freind yet, or I ever saw a person I cou'd love till now, and you shall have proofs of my love." In short I sat and listened to her, and the tears stood in my eyes, I don't know why ; but I loved her at that moment. I thought what a charming wife she wou'd have made, what a mother of a family, what a freind, and the first good and amiable whoman I have seen since I came to Naples for to be lost to the world — how cruel ! She give me a sattin pocketbook of her own work, and bid me think of her, when I saw it, and was many miles far of[f] ; and years hence when she peraps shou'd be no more, to look at it, and think the person that give it had not a bad heart. Did not she speak very pretty? But not one word of religion. But I shall be happy to-day, for I shall dine with them all, and come home at night. There is sixty whomen and all well-looking, but not like the fair Beatrice. " Oh Emma," she says to me, " the[y] brought here the Viene minister's wife, but I did not like the looks of her at first. She was little, short, pinch'd face, and I received her cooly. How different from you, and how surprised was I in seeing you tall in statu[r]e. We may read your heart in your counte- nance, your complexion ; in short, your figure and features is rare, for you are like the marble statues I saw when I was in the world." I think she flattered me up, but I was pleased.'^ The convent cloisters bordered on those ' royal ' or ' English ' - gardens which Sir William and she were after- wards so much to improve ; and here, if the Marchesa di Solari's memory can be trusted — and it constantly trips in her Italian record — happened, it would seem, about this time,^ another incident typical of another side, more comic 1 Morrison MS. i6o, January lo, 1787. It should here be commemorated that one of her first actions at Naples was to procure a post for Robert White, a protege of Greville. Ibid. 174. " Morrison MS. 221. ^ From indications in her letter. Cf. Morrison MS. 157, December 26, 1786 (Emma to Sir William): ' If I had the offer oi crowns, 1 would refuse them and accept you, and I don't care if all the world knows it. . . . Certain it is I 112 KMMA, LADY HAMILTON than pathetic. It sounds like some interlude by Beau- marchais, and recalls Rosina or Figaro. Intrigue belongs to Naples. The young Goethe observed of the Neapolitan atmosphere : ' Naples is a paradise. Every one lives, after his manner, intoxicated with self-forgetfulness. It is the same with me. I scarcely recognise myself, I seem an altered being. Yesterday I thought " either you were or are mad." ' ^ The madcap belle's stratagem was this. Walking there one afternoon under the escort of her duenna, she was accosted by a personage whom she knew to be King Ferdinand. He solicited a private interview, and was peremptorily refused. He succeeded, however, in bribing her attendant, and followed her to a remote nook, where they would be unobserved. He pressed his promises with fervour, but Emma refused to listen to a word, unless every- thing was committed to paper. The monarch complied, and thereupon Emma hastened to the palace and urgently entreated an audience with the Queen. Sobbing on her knees, she implored her to save her from persecutions so crreat that unless they were removed she had resolved to quit the world and find shelter with the nuns. The Queen, touched by such beauty in such distress, urged her to dis- close the name of her unknown importuner. Thereupon Emma handed her the paper, was bidden by the Queen to rise, and comforted. So far there seems ground for the tale. The Marchesa says that Sir William 'partially' con- firmed it ; and this must allude to the sequel which represents Maria Carolina as urging the Ambassador to marry his Lucretia without delay. Whether it is true that the tears of affliction were caused (as in The Taming of the Shrew) by an onion, and that Emma was ' on her marrow- bones ' in the garden while the Queen was perusing the tell-tale document, depends upon the number of embellish- love you and sincerely.' There is another letter where she says that she keeps the King at a distance. In this very year the prima donna Georgina Brigida Banti was whisked off suddenly in a coach across the frontier by the Queen's orders for presuming to favour the amorous King's attentions. Cf. Jeaffreson's Queeti of Naples and Lord Nelson, p. 164, and cf. the Marchesa di Solari's Venice imd^r the Yoke of France and Austria, vol. ii. p. 43. 1 Goethe, Italienishe Reise, March 16, 1787. Works, vol. xix. p. 211. ._.._. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 113 ments such a farce would probably receive. If true, it hardly redounds to Emma's credit.^ But from Emma we must now part awhile to consider the social and political conditions of the court of Naples, very different now from what they were to become a few years later under the new forces of the French Revolution, and, afterwards, of the meteoric Napoleon. It is a panorama which here can only be sketched in outline. It was to prove the theatre of Emma's best activities. During the entire eighteenth century, from the War of Succession to the Treaty of Utrecht, from the Treaty of Utrecht to that of the Quadruple Alliance, from that again to those of Vienna and of Aix, the Bourbons and the Hapsburgs had been perpetually wrestling for the rich provinces of central and southern Italy — a prize which united the secular appeal to Catholic Europe with supremacy over the Mediterranean. The Bourbons, by a strange chain of coincidence, had prevailed in Spain, and in 1731 'Baby Carlos' solemnly entered on his Italian and Sicilian heritage, long so craftily and powerfully compassed by his ambitious mother, Elizabeth Farnese. The Hapsburgs, however, never relinquished their aim, though the weak and pompous Emperor, Charles VI., was reduced to spending his energies on the mere phantom of the ' Pragmatic Sanction ' by which he hoped to cement his incoherent Empire in the person of his masterful daughter ; he died hugging, so to speak, that ' Pragmatic Sanction ' to his heart. Maria Theresa proved herself the heroine of Europe in her proud struggle with the Prussian aggressor who for a time forced her into an unnatural and lukewarm league with the French Bourbons, themselves covetous of the Italian Mediterranean. Even after the P>ench Bourbons were quelled, France, in the person of Napoleon, succeeded to their ambitions. Second only to his hankering after Eastern Empire, was from the ^ Cf. Venice under the Yoke of France and Austria, vol i. p. 66 ct seq. Mr. Jeaffreson regards the whole as Emma's impudent fabrication. This can scarcely be so in view ol the other evidence. The King, some twelve years later, called Emma ' Une maitressc femnie.' She was certainly also always ready for a practical joke. H 114 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON first the persistent hankering after Naples and Sicily of the would-be dominator of the sea, whose coast had been his cradle. Maria Theresa was therefore delighted when in April 1768^ her eldest daughter, Maria Charlotte, better known as ' Maria Carolina,' espoused,^ when barely sixteen years of age, Ferdinand, son of the Bourbon Charles III. of Spain, then only one year her senior, and already from his eighth year King of the two Sicilies. Still more did she rejoice when two years later her other daughter, Marie Antoinette, married at the same age the Due de Berri, then heir-pre- sumptive to the French throne, which he ascended four years afterwards. Both daughters were to fight man- fully with a fate which worsted the one and extin- guished the other, while the husbands of both were true Bourbons in their indecision and their love of the table ; for of the Bourbons it was well said ^ that their chapel was their kitchen. ' King ' Maria Theresa educated all her children to believe in three things : their religion, their race, and their destiny. They were never to forget that they were Catholics, im- perialists, and politicians. But she also taught them to be enlightened and benevolent, provided that their faithful subjects accepted the grace of these virtues unmurmuring from their hands. They were to be monopolists of reform. They were also to be monopolists of power ; nor was husband or wife to dispute their sway. Indeed, the two daughters were schooled to believe that control over their consorts was an absolute duty, doubly important from the rival ascendency wielded by the Queens of the Spanish Bourbons, who for three generations had been mated with imbecile or half-imbecile sovereigns ; they had a knack of calling their husbands cowards. And they were to be monopolists of religion even against the Pope if he ^ Not 1767, as most English books give the date. * Another daughter had been first betrothed to him, but she died of a chill, contracted, it was said, from a midnight visit to the vaults of her ancestors, whose effigies Maria Theresa insisted On showing her daughter on the eve of her nuptials. When Maria Carolina reached Caserta for her wedding, she embarassed her young bridegroom by kneeling before him and bowing her face to the ground in supplication.' Cf. a most interesting memoir, probably furnished by Lady Hamilton, in La Belle AssembUe for May iJso?. ^ By the Bishop of Derry. i APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 115 unduly interfered. These lessons were graven on the hearts of all but Marie Antoinette, who shared the obstinacy but lacked the penetration of her sister and brothers. Maria Theresa's son and successor, Joseph II, of Austria, showed to the full this union of bigotry and benevolence, both arbitrary yet both popular. He and his premier, Kaunitz, were strenuous in education and reform, but also strenuous in suppressing the Jesuits. His brothers were the same. Archduke Ferdinand played the benevolent despot in Bohemia, while Leopold, afterwards Grand Duke of the Tuscan dominions, was even more ostentatious in his high-handed well-doing. Never was a dynasty politer, more cultivated, more affable. But never also was one haughtier, more obstinate, or more formal. All were martyrs to etiquette, but all were also enthusiastic free- masons, and Queen Maria Carolina's family enthusiasm for the secret societies of ' Illuminati ' sowed those misfortunes which were afterwards watered with blood, reaped in tears, and harvested by iron. In 1790 Leopold, for a space, succeeded to Joseph ; and Maria Carolina was afterwards to see one of her sixteen children wedded to Francis,^ Leopold's successor on the Austrian throne, another to the King of Sardinia, a third, in the midst of her final calamities, united at Palermo to the future Louis Philippe. She thus became mother-in-law to an emperor of whom she was aunt, as well as to two monarchs ; while already she had been sister to two successive emperors. Her husband, Ferdinand IV,, was a boor and bon vivant, good-natured on the surface, but with a strong spice of cruelty beneath it ; suspicious of talent, but up to the fatal sequels of the P'rench Revolution the darling of his people. As the little Prince of Asturias, he had been handed to the tutorship of the old Duke of San Nicandro, who was re- stricted by the royal commands to instruction in sport, and in his own learning to a bowing acquaintance with his breviary. Inheriting a throne, while a child, by the accident of his * Francis il., in August lSo6, resigned his emperorship of Germany, and became merely Emperor of Austria. Another of Maria Carolina's daughters was wedded to the youni; Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, while her eldest son cvciiiually espoused the Arcluiucheas Clementine, so that she achieved her purpose of overwhelming the Bourbon with the Ilapsburg strain. ii6 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON father's accession to the Spanish crown, he had been reared in Sicily — always jealous of Naples — under the tutelage of Prince Caramanico, a minister of opera bouffe, and of Tenucci,^ a corrupt vizier of the old-world pattern, who preferred place to statesmanship, and pocket to power. The young King, however, was by no means so illiterate or unjust as has often been assumed, and, if he was 'eight years old when he began to reign,' the rest of the Scripture cannot then, at any rate, be justly applied to him. He remained throughout his life a kind of Italianised Tony Lumpkin, addicted to cards and beauty, devoted to arms and sport. Indeed, in many ways he resembled a typical English squire of the period, as Lord William Bentinck shrewdly observed of him some twenty-five years after- wards. Music was also his hobby. He sang often, but scarcely well ; and Emma, when he first began to practise duets with her, humorously remarked, ' He sings like a King' The people that he loved, and who adored him, were the Neapolitan Lazzaroni — not beggars, as the name implies, but loafing artisans, peasants, and fishermen, noisy, loyal, superstitious, rollicking, unthrifty, vigorous, in alternate spasms of short-lived work and easy pleasure — the natural and ineradicable outcome of their sultry climate, their mongrel blood, their red-hot soil, and their pagan past.- Motley was their wear. As happens to all peculiar peoples, they could not suffer or even fancy alien conditions. When the Grand Duke and Duchess of Russia visited Naples in 1782 during an abnormal spell of February cold, they swore that the northerners had brought the accursed weather with them.^ They had their recognised leaders, their acknowledged improvisatores, their informal functions and functionaries, like a sort of unmigratory gypsy tribe. They had their own patois, their own customs, their own songs, their favourite monks. Such was the famous Padre Giordano, the six-foot portent of a handsome priest, the best preacher, the best singer, the best eater of macaroni in the King's dominions. They had, too, their own feuds, 1 Often misnamed Tanucci. - This is accurate in the main. With the Lazzaioni proper, however, were mixed brigands from the provinces of the Fra Diavolo type. 2 Morrison MS. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 117 in a country where even composers like Cimarosa and Paisiello were always at loggerheads and made separate factions of their own. All that they knew of England before 1793 was that their own Calabria furnished the wood for its vaunted ships. With the Lazzaroni, Ferdi- nand early became a prime favourite. He was not only their king, but their jolly comrade. He was a Falstafif king, even in his gross proportions ; a king of misrule in his boisterous humour. He was a Policinello king whose Bourbon nose won him the sobriquet of ' Nasone ' from his mountebank liegemen. He was a Robin Hood king, who early formed his own freebooting bodyguard ; he was also King Reynard the Fox, with intervals of trick and avarice, although, unlike that jungle - Mephistopheles, Ferdinand could never cajole. He was, in truth, both cramped and spirited — ' a lobster crushed by his shell,' as Beckford once termed him ^ — despite his defects both real and imputed, his want of dignity, his phlegmatic exterior and his rude antics. Every Christmas saw him in his box at San Carlo, sucking up macaroni sticks for their edification from a steaming basin of burnished silver, while the Queen discreetly retired to a back seat. Every Carnival witnessed him in fisher's garb playing at fish-auctioneer on the quay which served as market, bandying personal jests, indulging in rough horse-play, and driving preposterous bargains to their boisterous delight. This picturesque if greasy court would strike up the chorus in full sight of their macaroni-monarch : — ' S'e levata la gabella alia farina ! Evviva Ferdinando e Carolina.' He loved to play Haroun Alraschid — to do justice in the gate — and, when hunting, to pay surprise visits to the cabins of the peasantry and redress their wrongs ; though when the fit was on him he could scourge them with scorpions. In his rambles on the beach the despot would toss the dirtiest of his rough adherents violently into the sea, and if he could not swim, would then himself plunge into the water and bring him laughing from his first bath to the shore. It was one of these sallies that suggested to ^ Cyrus Redding's Fifty Years' Recollections^ vol. ii. p. 117. Ti8 EMMA, I.ADY HAMILTON Canova his marble Hercules throv/ing Lichas into the sea, acquired b}' the bankers Torlonia before they were styled princes ; and, indeed, the coarser side of Hercules as Euripides portrays him in the Alcestis bears some resemblance to this uncouth and burly Nimrod. While he was at first proud of his/emme savante and left affairs of state until 1779 almost entirely in her hands and Acton's, his jealousy tended more and more to treat her as a precieuse ridicule, and he grew fond of asserting his mastery by playing the Petruchio, sometimes to brutality. For a long time he was pro-Spanish, while his wife remained pro-Austrian, and came to abominate Spanish policy more than ever when in 1778 Charles IV. of Spain ascended the throne with a caballing consort whom Maria Carolina detested. Ferdinand boasted that his people were happy because each could find subsistence at home, and the time was still distant when to the proverb on his name of 'Farina' and ' Feste,' 'Forca' was superadded. If he pauperised his people with farinaceous morsels and festivities, he had never yet ' forced ' them. Nor was he destitute of bluff wit and exceedingly common sense. In 1785 great efforts had been made under Acton's fresh influence to construct an imposing navy, which was paraded to the world by a royal progress — from its pomp and splendour called 'the golden journey' — to Leghorn and Tuscany, en route for Vienna. During their visit at the Tuscan Court, the pedantic Leopold asked Ferdinand what he was 'doing' for the people. 'Nothing at all, which is the best,' guffawed the King in answer ; ' and the proof is that while plenty of your folk go wheedling and begging in my territory, I will wager anything you like that none of mine are soliciting anything in yours.' ^ The Queen, however, was an 'illuminata' by bent and ^ This anecdote is given by the Marchesa di Solari as happening during Leopold's earlier visit to Naples. The story as related elsewhere may be a blend of two passages at arms between Ferdinand and his precise brother-in-law. Another and a new instance of his wit is given in a conversation of Sir W. Hamilton recorded (probably by Lady Hamilton) in La Belle AssembUe for May 1807. While his marriage was as yet childless, he observed that three miracles were distinguishing his reign : ' I am young, and have no children ' ; ' The Jesuits are dissolved, but their money is indiscoverable ' ; and— marvel of marvels — 'Tenucci, my minister, is old, and will never die.' APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 119 upbringing. She was always devising theories and execut- ing schemes, and besides literature, botany, too, engrossed her attention.^ It is a great mistake to judge either her or him in the light of after occurrences, and it is an error as misleading to judge even those events by the evidence of Jacobin pamphleteers, some of whom, and the most violent, did not hesitate to recant.- It was only long afterwards that she became lampooned, and that the ' head of a Richelieu on a pretty woman ' was held up to execration in the words of the ancient diatribe on Catherine of M^dicis : — ' Si nous faisons Tapologie De Caroline et J^zabel, L'une fut reine en Italic, Et I'autre reine en Israel. Celle-ci de malice extreme, L'autre etait la malice meme.'^ Neither King nor Queen, though both have much to answer for at the bar of history, were ever the pantomime- masks of villainy and corruption that resentment and rumour, public and private, have affixed to their names. The Queen's full influence was not apparent until the birth of an heir in 1777, when by a clause of her marriage- settlement she became entitled to sit in council. But long before, she had begun to inspire reforms very distasteful to the feudal barons who at first composed her court. She endeavoured to turn a set of antiquated prescriptions into a freer constitution, and to cleanse the Neapolitan homes. She limited the feudal system of rights — odious to the people at large — to narrow areas, and this popular limita- tion proved long afterwards the main cause of the nobility's share in the middle-class revolution of 1799.^ The marriage laws were re-cast much on the basis of Lord Hardwicke's ' Cf. Sir J. Banks's testimony so early as 1787. Eg. MS. 2641, f. 141. - Vincenzo Coco especially. ^ ' Would casuists fine excuses try For Caroline and Jezebel, The one was queen in Italy, The other, queen in Israel. Extremes of malice marked the second, Malice iiself the first was reckoned.' Cf. Crimes cl Amours des Bourbons de Naples, Paris, Anon., 1S61. A tissue of inaccuracies. * In Sicily the feudal sysleni remained and there was no revolution there. I20 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Act in England. The administration of justice was puri- fied.^ Besides locating the University in the fine rooms of the suppressed Jesuit monastery, to some of which she transferred the magnificent antiques of the Farnese and Palatine collections, she founded schools and new institu- tions for the encouragement of agriculture and architecture. Even the hostile historian Colletta admits that she drew all the intellect of the age to Naples. Waste lands were reclaimed, colonies planted on uninhabited islands, exist- ing industries developed, and the coral fisheries on the African coasts converted into a chartered company. The evils of tax-gathering were obviated ; the ports of Brindisi and Baia restored ; highways were made free of expense for the poor ; tolerance was universally proclaimed ; the Pope's right to nominate bishops was defied ; nor was she reconciled to Pius VI. till policy compelled her to kneel before him in her Roman visit of 1791. At the period now before us, most of the pulpits favoured her. Padre Rocco, the blunt reformer of abuses, Padre Minasi, the musical archaeologist, were loud in her praises. And this despite the fact that, though regular in her devotions and the reverse of a free-thinker, she resolutely opposed the ' crimping ' system which from time to time reinforced the Neapolitan convents.^ She also bitterly offended the vested rights of the lawyers and the army. An enthusiast for freemasonry (and long after her death the Neapolitan lodges toasted her memory),' she assembled around her through these societies a brilliant throng of savants and poets, while it was her special aim to elevate the intellects of women. Among the circle of all the talents around her were the great economist and jurist Filangieri,* revered by Goethe, but dead within two years after Emma's arrival ; the learned and ill-starred Cirillo and Pagano,^ who both perished afterwards in the Revolution ; Palmieri, Galanti, ^ For these facts, cf. Jeaffreson's Queen of Naples. - Cf. the remarkable correspondence between Acton and Hamilton about the case of Ann Saffory, an English girl, in 17S8. Eg. MS. 2639, f. 18. 2 Pep^ Memoirs {1847). * Author of The Science of Legislation^ 1 777 J niade Gentleman of the King's Bedchamber. In 1783 the Queen presented him with an estate at La Cava. ^ Author of / Saggi Politici. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 121 Galiani, Delfico, the scientists ; Caravelli, Caretto, Fala- guerra, Ardinghelli, Pignatelli, all lights of literature ; and Conforti, the historian. But perhaps the most interesting of all, and the most typical, was Eleonora de Fonseca Pimentel, subsequently muse and victim of the outburst in 1799. This remarkable poetess, Portuguese by origin, merits and has received a monograph.^ Up to 1793, indeed, this friend and disciple of Metastasio was the professed eulogist of the Queen. She styled her ' La verace virtute, e di lei figlio II verace valor.' ^ She joined her in denouncing 'Papal vassalage' in Italy. When the royal bambino died in 1778 she indited her * Orfeo ' as elegy. When the ' golden journey' was accom.- plished, the Miseno port re-opened, and the fleet re-organ- ised, her ' Proteus and Parthenope ' celebrated the com- mencement of a golden age. But what most aroused her enthusiasm was the foundation of that singular experiment in monarchical socialism — the ideal colony of San Leucio at Caserta between the years 1777 and 1779. This settlement was the first-fruits of the Queen's socialism, though its occasion was the King's liking for his hunting-box — built in 1773 at the neighbouring Belvedere, and on the site of the ancient vineyard and palace of the old Princes of Caserta. A church was erected in 1776 for a parish governed by an enlightened code of duties ' negative and positive,' and even then numbering no less than seventeen families. Some of the royal buildings were converted into schools ; even the prayers and religious ordinances were regulated, as were all observances of the hearth, and every distribution of pro- perty. Allegiance was to be paid first to God, then to the sovereign, and lastly to the ministers. Under Ferdinand's nominal authorship a book of the aims, orders, and laws of the colony was published, of which a copy exists in the British Museum.^ On its flyleaf Lady Hamilton has herself ^ Studii Storici, Benedetto Croce. Roma, 1897. 2 'True virtue, and the birth of virtue true, True courage.' ' 1051 C. 17. 122 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON recorded : — ' Given to me by the King of Naples at Belvedere or S. Leucio the i6th of May 1793, when Sir William and I dined with his Majesty and the Duchess of Devonshire, Lady Webster, Lady Plymouth, Lady Bessborough, Lady E. Foster, Sir G. Webster, and Mr. Pelham. Emma Hamilton.' These names are in no accidental association. The then and the future Duchesses of Devonshire headed a galaxy of which Charles James Fox was chief, and to which Sir William's devotees, Lady ' Di ' Beauclerk and the Honourable Mrs. Damer, also belonged. Eleonora's ode in its honour hymns the ' royal city ' where ' nature's noble diadem ' crowns 'the spirit of ancient Hellas.' But for all these undertakings, even before stress of invasion and vengeance for wrongs prompted large arma- ments and an English alliance, financial talent of a high order was needful ; taxation had to be broadened, and it could not be enlarged without pressing heavily on the professional classes, for the Lazzaroni were always privi- leged as exempt. The necessities which led to the shameful tampering with the banks in 1792-93 had not yet arisen; but organising talent was needed, and organising talent was wanting. Tenucci proved as poor a financier as once our own Godolphin or Dashwood. Jealous of Carolina's manifest direction, he caballed, and was replaced as first minister in 1776 by the phantom Sambuca. Even then the pro-Spanish party among the grandees menaced the succession well-nigh as much as the pro-Jacobins did some five years later. Even then it was on very few of the numberless Neapolitan nobles (a ' golden book ' of whom would outdo Venice and equal Spain) that the perplexed Queen could rely. Caramanico was a mere monument of the past, and as such con- signed to England as ambassador ; while his young and romantic son Joseph was reputed the Queen's lover, and forbidden the court. The coxcomb and procrastinator, Gallo, who afterwards ratted to Napoleon, was already mismanaging foreign affairs. The old and respectable Caracciolo, father of that rebel admiral whom Nelson was to execute, was for the moment Minister of Finance, but approaching his end. That Admirable Crichton, Sir John Acton. F70m the original portrait recently acquired by the National Portrait Gallery of Naples. 1) APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 123 Prince Belmonte, afterwards as 'Galatone' ambassador at the crucial post of the Madrid Embassy, now pre- ferred the office of Chamberlain to any active direction of affairs. Prince Castelcicala, twice ambassador to the court of St. James's, and nearly as acceptable to the Queen as Belmonte, had not yet been pressed into home concerns, nor had he disastrously earned his inquisitorial spurs of ^^793- Sicigniano, who was to commit suicide when am- bassador in London in the same year, belonged to the same category ; the young and accomplished Luigi di Medici had not yet emerged into a prominence that proved his doom. Prince Torella was a nonentity ; the Rovere family, which was to supply the Sidney or Bayard ^ of the Revolution, was not now of political significance. The professional classes were as yet excluded from government, and creatures like the notorious Vanni were denied power. Amid the general dearth the excitable Queen was at her wit's end for a capable minister. During her Vienna and Tuscan visits of 1778 she consulted, as always, her august relations ; and the result was their recommendation of John Francis Edward Acton, whose younger brother had for some time been serving in the Austrian army. In consenting to the trial of an unknown man, middle-aged and a foreigner, the Queen hardly realised to what grave issues her random choice was leading. Acton, third cousin of Sir Richard Acton of Aldenham Hall, Shropshire, to whose baronetcy and estates he most unexpectedly succeeded in 1791, was the son of a physician, Catholic and Jacobite, settled at Besancon. He was born in 1736, and may have first entered the French Navy, which he quitted probably as a cadet in search of advance- ment, and not because of the vague discredits afterwards imputed by the Jacobins, The British Navy he could scarcely have contemplated, because in the days of the Georges- Catholicism and Jacobitism were grave impedi- ' Prince Etlore Carafa. - It was so even in 177S. The Bishop of Derry, writing to Sir William from Albano in the June of that year about the prospects of the Count of Albany, observes very much after his manner: — 'England has left them [the Catholic Jacobites] no other method but force to recover their just rights. What a Madness in our Government not to legalise the daily exercise they make 124 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ments to success. At the age of thirty-nine he entered the naval service of Carolina's brother, the Grand Duke Leopold of Tuscany, and attracted Caramanico's notice by his bravery as Captain on a Spanish expedition against the Moors. Summoned by a stroke of luck to control a realm at once ambitious and sluggish, he infused English energy at every step. A martinet by training and disposition, shrewd, worldly, calculating, yet sturdy, and for Naples, where gold always reigned, inflexibly honest, he was well capable of defying and brow-beating the supple Neapolitan nobility who detested his introduction. A smooth-tongued adventurer, though good looks were not on his side, he speedily won the favour of a Queen in- clined to make tools of favourites, and favourites of tools ; but he soon convinced her also that a mere tool he could never remain. He was naturally pro-British, and Britain was already a Mediterranean power : Acton recommended the country of his origin to the Queen's notice in the veriest trifles. It was not many years before Maria Carolina was driving in the English curricle which Hamilton had pro- vided for her.^ Little else than a stroke of destiny, under the conjunctures of the near future, brought the new foreigner into close alliance with Sir William Hamilton, whose patriotism in the very year when he was lolling with Sir Horace Mann at Portici had expressed itself in a fervent wish to see France ' well drubbed,' and a fury at the non-support of Rodney by Government.^ The different natures of the two perhaps cemented their friendship. Hamilton for all his natural indolence could rise to emer- gency ; Acton, on the contrary, was all compromise and caution — a sort of Robert Walpole in little, with 'steady' for his motto. Hamilton was good-tempered to a fault : Emma wrote of him after her marriage that he preferred 'good temper to beauty.' In Acton lay a strong spice of of their Religion ; as if a man were a less faithfull subject or a less brave soldier for being fool enough to believe that to be Flesh which all the world sees to be only Bread ; or as if doing that legally which he now does illegally would render him a more tumultuous or a more dangerous cilyzen.' — Morrison MS. 83. 1 Cf. Eg. MS. 2639, f. 16. 2 Morrison MS. 92, 1780. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 125 the bully, and he could be very unjust if his authority was impugned.^ He was a born bureaucrat, and it was his love of bureaucracy, as will appear, that ruined the Queen. Acton's only marriage occurred in his old age with his young niece, by papal dispensation in 1805, as Fettigrew has recorded. His brother Joseph's descendants are still at Naples.^ But none of his family play any part in the drama before us. Starting as an Admiral of the Neapolitan Fleet, he soon became Minister both of Marine and War. Caracciolo the elder's opportune transference to diplomacy in Paris and London, which Acton's future libellers accused him of contriving, as afterwards even of causing his death, installed him as Minister of Finance. He at once advised the institution of thirteen Commissioners who could all be censured in event of failure; 'divide et impera' was his principle ; and at first his resource proved successful. He was soon made also a Lieutenant-General ; while some ten years later, in his heyday, he was appointed Captain- General, and at last a full-blown Field-Marshal. But long before, he blossomed into power with the Queen, whose anti-Spanish policy chimed with his own, and whose ab- horrence of the pro-Spanish functionaries around her required a champion in council. This created two camps in the court, for up to 1796 the King was pro-Spanish to the core. But the Queen was already predominant, and it was soon bruited that the Latin ' Jiic, licec, hoc' meant Acton, the Queen, and the King thus derided as neuter ; indeed some added that Acton was ' kic, Jkbc, hoc' in one. In a brief space Acton had consolidated a powerful fleet — which in 1793 ^''^ was able to despatch in aid of the English at Toulon ^ — and a formidable army. The hVench events of 1789 rendered him all the more indispensable to Maria Carolina, whose ears were terrified by the first rumblings of an earthquake so soon to engulf her sister's family. The Bastille was taken, the Assembly held, and fawning false-loyalty loomed fully as dangerous as ' Cf. the incident related by the MarchionessSolariof ihe peasant who suflcred from Acton's temper becaubc tlie King had left Acton unconsultcd in an act of grace, Venice under the Yoke of Frame, etc., vol. ii. p. 49. "^ For this information I am indebted to Lord Aclon. " I'ejxj, p. 12. 126 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON uproarious Jacobinism. In the same year America estab- lished her 'Constitution.' The American rebellion was the parent of the French Revolution ; already, and even on ground so lately British, persecutions prevailed that made shrewd officials, like Greville, dread the orgies probable should this new leaven ferment in Latin and Celtic blood. Already the aunts of Louis XVI., the two old ' demoiselles de France,' were on the verge of abandoning Paris for Rome ; already the charged air tingled with Liberty, Equality, Fraternity ; already Carolina, masking hysterical restiveness by imperious com- posure, was debating if armed help were possible from Austria as well as from Naples. But the irritated barons were unwarlike, the King cared little, the lawyers still depended on his favour, the intelligent middle-class was beginning to welcome the Gallic doctrines. Austria, too, was by no means ready. And yet in Carolina's ears the hour of doom was already striking. She longed for an untemporising deliverer, a self-sacrificing friend, a leader of men and movements ; and as she longed and champed in vain, she could only wait and hope and prepare.^ Her anxiety was not that of a normal woman. Calm in mind, in love and hate her ardour ran to extremes. Though she owned a far better head than her unhappy sister, her heart, outside her home and in spite of her passions, was far colder. She was truly devoted to her children, she was fond of romping even with the children of strangers ^ ; and yet when her sons-in-law grew lukewarm in aiding her, she could rage against her daughters. Jealousy of her ogling and dangling consort was often a prime motive for her actions ; and yet she had often h^Qn/emme galante, and was ever bent on mystery and intrigue. She harped on duty, but her notions of duty rested on maintaining the royal birth- right of her house. Masterful as her mother, light-living 1 Cf. for the foregoing bird's-eye survey, besides the books and MS. quoted, A. Dumas' / Bordom, Palumibo's Maria Carolina, Sacchinelli's and Ilelfert's Ruffo, Cuoco's Saggi Storici, and JeatTreson's Queen of Naples and Lord Nelson. - Lije and Letters of the First Earl of M into, vol. ii. p. 364, and cf. Madame Le Brun's Memoirs, p. 72. She praises her as a misunderstood and magnani- mous woman. ' She had a tine character and a good deal of wit.' APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 127 as her eldest brother, she was neither hard nor frivolous. She could be both ice and fire. Her strange temperament combined the poles with the equator. The year 1789 proved critical for Emma also. It brought to Naples, among other illustrious visitors, the good and gracious Duchess of Argyll, formerly Duchess of Hamilton, who, as the beautiful Miss Gunning, had years before taken England, and indeed Europe, by storm. She had come southward for her health. Her first marriage had related her to Sir William, and no sooner had she set eyes on Emma than she not only countenanced her in public but conceived for her the most admiring and intimate friendship. Hitherto the English ladies had been coldly civil, but under the lead of the Duchess they now began to follow the Italian vogue of sounding her praises. Emma became the fashion. It was already whispered that she was secretly married to the Ambassador,^ and had she been his wife she could scarcely have been more heartily, though she would have been more openly, accepted. Her request that she might accompany Sir William, the King, and Acton on one of their long and rough sporting journeys had been gladly granted. She had attended her deputy- husband on his equally rough antiquarian ramble through Puglia, made in the spring of 1789. 'She is so good,' he informed Greville, 'there is no refusing her.'- By the spring of 1790 not only the Duchess but the whole Argyll family lavished kindness^ on the extraordinary girl whom they must have respected. The new Spanish ambas- sador's wife also had become her intimate friend. Madame Le Brun, too, repaired in the wake of the French troubles to Naples, and was besieged for portraits. Madame Skavonska, the Russian ambassador's handsome wife, so empty-headed that she squandered her time in vacancy on a sofa, was her first sitter.* Emma, brought by the eager Hamilton, was the second, and during her sittings she was accom- ' Lord Elcho, who had been with the Argylls in Naples, bruited this abroad in Switzerland in 1790. Cf. Morrison MS. 190. ■^ Morrison MS. 177. •"' Ibid. i8o. ■* The notorious Prince pDtcmkin was her lover, ;>nd Lord Bristol in one of his letters wondered what would become of her un his death ;i few years later. 128 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON panied by the Prince of Monaco and the Duchess of Fleury, Madame Le Brun, herself by no means devoid both of jealousy and snobbishness, raved of her beauty, but formed no opinion of her brain, while she found her ' supercilious.' ^ This is curious, for by common consent Emma gave herself no airs ; she conciliated all. But though never a parvenue in her affections, she could often behave as such in her dislikes ; and her self-assertiveness could always combat jealous or freezing condescension. Her improvement both in knowledge and behaviour had from other accounts enhanced her accomplishments. No breath of scandal had touched her ; she was Hamilton's unwedded wife, and her looks had kept even pace with her forward path in many directions : she was fairer than ever and far less vain. The Queen herself already pointed to her as an example for the court, to which, however, Emma could not gain formal admittance until the marriage which she had predicted in 1786 had been duly solemnised. For that desired climax everything now paved the way. Each night in the season she received fifty of the elite at the Embassy, till in January 1791 her success was crowned by a concert and reception of unusual splendour.^ The stars of San Carlo performed. The court ladies vied with each other in jewels and attire. The first English, as well as the first Neapolitans, thronged every room ; there were some four hundred guests. Emma herself was conspicuously simple. Amid the blaze of gems and colours she shone in white satin, set off by the natural hues only of her hair and complexion. And yet she was not elated. Her one study, her single aim, she wrote to Greville, were to render Sir William, on whom she ' doated,' happy. They had already passed nearly five years together, ' with all the domestick happiness that 's possible.'^ Was there any rift within the lute? If so, it lay in Greville's attitude. He opened his eyes and sighed as he read of Emma's virtuous glory ; and he opened them still wider when she assured him of her ' esteem ' for * having been ' Madame Lc Brun's Memoirs, p. 68. ^ Morrison MS. 189. ■'' Ibid. 189. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 129 the means of bringing' them 'together.' That Sir William should marry her quite passed the bounds of his philosophy ; there would be an eclat, and eclats he detested ; his uncle would make himself ridiculous. It seems likely, from an allusion in a letter from Hamilton of a full year earlier, that the nephew had already thrown out hints of suitable pro- vision should chance or necessity ever separate the couple. Sir William, however, had been deaf to such suggestions, although, 'thinking aloud,' he did mention ^^150 a year to Emma, and ^50 to her mother, ' who is a very worthy woman.' ^ Such contingencies, however, could not apply to their present ' footing,' for ' her conduct was such as to gain her universal esteem.' The only chance for such a scheme hinged on her pertinacity in pressing him to marry her. ' I fear,' he continued, ' that her views are beyond what I can bring myself to execute, and that when her hopes on this point are over, she will make herself and me unhappy.' But he recoiled from the thought ; despite the difference in their ages and antecedents, ' hitherto her con- duct is irreproachable, but her temper, as you must know, unequal.' ^ And now all these obstacles had melted in eighteen months under the enchanter's wand of the charming Duchess, who may well have urged him to defy convention and make Emma his wife. Sir William's fears were not for Naples, nor wholly for Greville, who might laugh if he chose. They were rather for the way in which his foster- brother. King George, and his Draco-Queen, might receive such news, and how they might eventually manifest their displeasure ; the Ambassador, however much and often he was wont to bewail his fate, had no notion of retiring to absurd obscurity. But these objections also seem to have been equally dispersed by the fairy godmother of a Duchess who was bent on raising Cinderella to the throne ; and although Queen Charlotte eventually refused to receive Lady Hamilton, yet Sir William's imminent return was in fact signalised by the honour of a privy councillorship. ' The two sums represented llie allowance made by Sir William, and never increased even after marriage. " Morrison MS. 187. I 130 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Long afterwards, he assured Greville that his treatment when he was eventually replaced, and subsequently when he was denied reimbursement for his losses and his services (both to go fully as unrewarded as his wife's), was not due to the king but to his ministers.^ Moreover, his two old Eton School friends, Banks and the ubiquitous Lord Bristol, Bishop of Derry, had signified their approval. The latter in his peregrinations had already worshipped at Emma's Neapolitan shrine — a devotee at once generous and money-grubbing, cynical and ingenuous, constant and capricious, who (in Lady Hamilton's words) ' dashed at everything,' and who was so eccentric as to roam Caserta in bishop's garb and a white hat. This original — a minia- ture mixture of Peterborough, Hume, and, one might add, Thackeray's Charles Honeyman — had braced Hamilton's resolution by telling him it was only ' manly fortitude ' to brave a stupid world and secure Emma's happiness and his own,^ Sir William, whose inclination struggled with Greville's prudence, could not gainsay his friends who echoed the wishes of his heart. And all this must have been furthered by the Duchess of Argyll. No wonder that her sad death at the close of 1790, far away from the climate which had proved powerless to save her, desolated Emma. ' I never,' she assured Greville, who already knew of their home-coming in the spring, ' I never had such a freind as her, and that you will know when I see you, and recount ... all the acts of kindness she shew'd to me : for they where too good and numerous to describe in a letter. Think then to a heart of gratitude 1 From a letter in the writer's possession, written by Greville immediately after his uncle's decease to one of the then Foreign Secretaries. This letter will be found in the Appendix (E (i)). It may at once be said that it contains a most important confirmation of Emma's 'claims.' Not only does it establish the strong recommendation of them by Sir William on his death-bed, but the precise Greville in an official note declares that he ' knows ' ' that the records of your office confirm the testimony of their Sicilian Majesties by letter as well as by their Ministers.' Furthermore, this very letter is referred to by Emma in one of her ' Memorials. ' The ministers feared an embarrassing political ^clat, while they resented his expenditure. Queen Charlotte, I fancy however, was also concerned with the neglect of Hamilton. - Morrison MS. 200. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 131 and sensibility what it must suffer. Ma passienza: io ho molto.' ^ The marriage project was first to visit Rome, where they would meet the Queen, about to be reconciled to the Pope, on her homeward journey from Vienna. Then to repair to Florence, where they could take a short leave both of her and the King ; and thence to Venice, where they were to encounter, besides many English, the cream of the flying French noblesse, including the Counts of Artois and Vau- dreuil, the Polignacs, and Calonne.'- Before May was over they would be in London, and there, if things went smoothly, the wedding should take place. Emma's heart must have throbbed when she reflected on the stray hazards that might still wreck that happiness for which she had long pined, and overthrow the full cup just as it neared her lips. Greville was unaware of the dead secret, but he implored Emma not to live in London as she had done in Naples ; he pressed the propriety of separate establishments. Emma laughed him to scorn. The friend of the late Duchess and her friends could afford to flout insular opinion. But she laughed too soon : had she been wiser she might possibly have propitiated the Queen of England by discretion. It further happened that Greville's official friend and Emma's old acquaintance, Hcneage Legge, met and spied on the happy pair at Naples, just before he and they left for Rome ; he promptly reported progress to Greville, who had plainly asked for enlightenment. The unsuspecting Hamilton called on Legge immediately to proffer him every friendly service. Mrs. Legge was in delicate health, and Emma, too, kindly offered to act as her companion, or even nurse. Legge was embarrassed ; his wife civilly declined Emma's attentions, 'kindly in- tended,' but owing to Emma's 'former line of life' impos- sible to accept. These proprieties confirmed Sir William's determination, and aroused Emma's ire. The one was accustomed to observe that the ' reformed rake ' proverb ' Morrison MS. 189, January 1791. Emma's Italian orthography was still as unequal as her temper. Her constant refrain. It recurs in letters even of 1S06; cf. Appendix, Part ll. C. (3). » Morrison MS. 193, April 22, 1791. 132 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON applied fully as much to a woman as a man. The other felt herself mortified and insulted just when her virtues rang on every lip. If the frail Lady Craven, for instance, were good enough to touch the hem of Mrs. Legge's garments, why not Emma, who had rashly hastened to be kind ? Legge must tell the rest himself : ' Her influence over him exceeds all belief . . . The language of both parties, who always spoke in the plural number — we, us, and ours — stagger'd me at first, but soon made me deter- mined to speak openly to him on the subject, when he assur'd me, what I confess I was most happy to hear, that he was not married ; but flung out some hints of doing justice to her good behaviour, if his public situation did not forbid him to consider himself an independent man. . . . She gives everybody to understand that he is now going to England to solicit the K.'s consent to marry her. ... I am confident she will gain her point, against which it is the duty of every friend to strengthen his mind as much as possible ; and she will be satisfied with no argu- ment but the King's absolute refusal of his approbation. Her talents and powers of amusing are very wonderfull. Her voice is very fine, but she does not sing with great taste, and Aprili [szc] says she has not a good ear ; her Attitudes are beyond description beautifull and striking, and I think you will find her figure much improved since you last saw her. T/iey say they shall be in London by the latter end of May, that their stay in England will be as short as possible, and that, having settled his affairs, he is determined never to return. She is much visited here by ladies of the highest rank, and many of the corps diplomatique ; does the honours of his house with great attention and desire to please, but wants a little refine- ment of manners in which ... I wonder she has not made greater progress. I have all along told her that she could never change her situation, and that she was a happier woman as Mrs. H. than she wou'd be as Lady H., when more reserved behaviour being necessary, she wou'd be depriv'd of half her amusements.' ^ Sound sense enough, but most unlikely to convince 1 Morrison MS. 190; Legge lo Greville, Naples, March 8, 1791. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 133 Emma's self-confidence. Mrs. Legge, too, and afterwards Queen Charlotte, were justified in excommunicating Emma before her marriage ; such decencies are concerns of pre- cedent, the etiquette of morality. But it is surely a cruel and un-Christian precedent, to set up without exception that a girl who had raised and trained herself as Emma had done should be debarred from the possibility of legiti- mate retrieval. Such standards savour far more of the world than of Heaven. And, at all events, it must be conceded that at this period Emma, who had been beloved not only by the Duchesses of Argyll and Devonshire, but by such young ladies as Miss Carr, could not possibly have hurt or soiled the British matron. There may well have been quite as much unamiable envy as injured innocence in the blank refusal to let her show that she was a kind and helpful woman, even though she had not always been irreproachable. London was reached at last, and the King's reluctant sanction obtained. They were feted and entertained by the Marquis of Abercorn, by Beckford at Fonthill, and by the Duke of Oueensberry, who gave a brilliant concert at Richmond in their honour, where Emma herself performed.^ But her chief delight was her reunion with those art coteries where she had ever felt herself freest and most at home. One of her first visits was to Cavendish Square. On a June morning she surprised Romney — an apparition in 'Turkish dress' — while he was ailing and melancholy. Neither his trip in the previous year, nor the warm friend- ship of Hayley, who had now fitted up a studio for him at Eartham, could exorcise the demon of dejection which brooded over him. The wonderful girl whose career he had watched afar, cheered him back to his former source of inspiration. His letters to Hayley of this date- are full of her. She was eager that her old friend should recognise that she was 'still the same Emma.' She sat for him constantly, and besides his many other studies ' Newspiipers of ihe summer of 1791. ' Ilayley's Life of Kovnicy, pp. 158-165, and cf. the calalogue of MS. letters in Add. MS. 30,895, f. 59, which supplements the letters there tran- scribed. 134 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON and portraits of her, he at once made her the model of his Joan of Arc, the idea of which his recent journey across the Channel had suggested. Both this and a ' Magdalen ' were commissioned by the Prince of Wales, who seems to have met her at the Duke of Oueensberry's. He painted her as ' Cassandra,' he designed to paint her as ' Constance,' he commenced a fresh 'Bacchante.'^ He dined with her and "Sir William, and they both dined thrice with him, first in July^ and afterwards in August. He broke his rule of solitude in order that ' several people of fashion ' might behold the performances of one whom he declared 'superior to all womankind.' She in her turn begged him to let Hayley set about writing his life. All that she did or said fascinated him ; and the fondest father, remarks his biographer, could not have taken a keener pleasure in the marriage of a favourite daughter than did Romney in her imminent wedding. Her acting and singing so transported him, that he was on the point of posting off near midnight to fetch Hayley from Eartham. ' She performed both in the serious and comic to admiration: but her "Nina"' — a part two years later the especial delight of Maria Carolina — 'surpasses everything I ever saw, and I believe, as a piece of acting, nothing ever surpassed it. The whole company were in an agony of sorrow. Her acting is simple, grand, terrible, and pathetic' It was this power of moving others that, according to a tradition often re- peated by the late Sir Francis Hastings Doyle, once so worked on Nelson ten years afterwards, that he walked up and down the crowded room muttering, ' D Mrs. Siddons ! ' with whom somebody had contrasted her.^ On the occasion just mentioned Gallini, the impresario, offered her ;^2O0O a year and two benefits ' if she would engage with him'; but, in Romney's words, 'Sir William said pleasantly that he had engaged her for life.' For a few weeks Romney fancied her attitude towards him altered; the mere suspicion disquieted his nerves, but 1 Possibly the picture now known as 'Mirth.' - Add. MS. 30,805, f. 51. * This anecdote originates perhaps with Mrs. St. George [Mrs. Trench] in her Journal, recounting the fetes (and rumours) during the Nelson- Hamilton visit to Dresden in 1801. Emma Lyon, Lady IIamii.ion, as C^issandk.-l By G. Komnky. Fioni a first state of the Mezzotint in ILiyle Life of Roinney. APPRENTICESHIP AND MARRIAGE 135 the cloud was soon dispelled. Meanwhile Hayley, who was to compose a fresh poem on her just before her wedding/ indited the following: — ' Gracious Cassandra ! whose benign esteem To my weak talent every aid supplied, Thy smile to me was inspiration's beam, Thy charms my model, and thy taste my guide. But say ! what cruel clouds have darkly chilled Thy favour, that to me was vital fire? O let it shine again ! or worse than killed. Thy soul-sunk artist feels his art expire.' On her very wedding day Emma sat for the last time to the great artist for that noble portrait of her as the ' Ambassadress/ and she and her husband ' took a tender leave ' ^ of one inseverable from her for ever. Hamilton and she were the talk of the town. When they drove out or went to parties, or entered the box at Drury Lane, every eye was upon them, and it was at Drury Lane that the acting of Jane Powell brought together the two former mates in servitude as the admired of all beholders. All this must have nettled Greville, of whose feelings at this time there is no record. But his opposition does not seem to have been serious, for Sir William and Emma passed their time in a round of visits to the whole circle of his relations, who were mostly^ her keen partisans. Lord Abercorn, indeed, went so far as to protest that her person- ality had 'made it impossible' for him 'to see or hear without making comparisons';* and from this time forward Lord William Douglas also became Emma's lifelong upholder. The summer of 1791 was unusually hot, and from the latter part of July to mid-August they stayed with relatives in the country, including Beckford, when Emma for the first time beheld the Oriental and the Gothic glories, the mounting spire, the magic terraces, the fairy gardens, and ail the bizarre splendours, including its owner, of Fonthill Abbey. 1 Add. MS. 30,805, f. 5. 2 Add. MS. 30,805, f. 51. •' Not so the Dowager Countess of Warwick, or his niece Mrs. Dickenson, formerly Mary Hamilton, whose famed vocal prowess Emma was said to have eclipsed. * Morrison MS. 198. 136 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON On the whole, this deh'cate experiment had succeeded, although Queen Charlotte's ban doubtless rankled in Emma's breast.^ The King himself was more pained than offended, and had confirmed Hamilton in the security of his appointment. Nor was it only grand folks or old friends that Emma had frequented. It is clear from allusions in shortly sub- sequent letters that both she and her mother visited that ' poor little Emma' who had re-awakened the longings of motherhood in the old but unforgotten days of Parkgate. On September 6th Sir William and ' Emy,' or ' Emily,' Lyon were duly wedded at Marylebone Church, long asso- ciated with the Hamilton family. The marriage was solemnised by the Rev. Doctor Edward Barry, rector of Elsdon, Northumberland. The witnesses were Lord Abercorn and L. Dutens,^ secretary to the English Minister at Turin, with whom Emma long maintained a faithful friendship.^ Her heart was overflowing. She felt, as she told Romney, so grateful to her husband, so glad in restored innocence and happiness, that she would ' never be able to make ' him ' amends for his goodness.' They started homeward by way of Paris, where they were to see for the first and last time that tortured Queen who was fast completing the tragedy of her doom. Hence- forward the name of ' Hart' is heard no more. Hencefor- ward Emma is no longer obscure, but, as Lady Hamilton, passes into history. ^ The Queen would never receive Lady Hamilton even after the return of the Hamiltons to England, and Nelson will be found angry that Sir William would go to court alone ; cf. post, chap. xii. 2 Parish Register, Marylebone Church. ^ Immediately on her return to Naples she begged Romney to send him, as token, a portrait of herself — 'the little picture with the black hat.' — Morrison MS. 199. >■ *^^r •^■^ ;^" ^^ r CHAPTER VI TILL THE FIRST MEETING 1791-1793 Lady Hamilton returned to bask in social favour. It was not only the Neapolitan noblesse and the English wives that courted and caressed her. Their young daughters also vied with each other in attentions, and vowed that never was any one so amiable and accomplished as this eighth wonder. Among these was a Miss Carr, who not long afterwards married General Cheney, an Aide- de-Camp to the Duke of York, during the next few years more than once a visitor at Naples. The writer possesses a miniature in water-colour, drawn by this young lady, of the friend to whom she long remained attached. Emma sits, clad all in white, with an air of sweetness and repose. At the back of this memento she has herself recorded : 'Emma Hamilton, Naples, Feb. 11, 1792. I had the happiness of my dear Miss Carr's company all day; but, alas, the day was too short.' There is nothing in this likeness to betoken the purpose and ambition which she was shortly to display in the side- scenes of history. Horace Walpole had written, ' So Sir William has married his gallery of statues.' Emma soon ceases to be a statue, and becomes prominent in the labyrinth of Neapolitan intrigue ; her role as patriot begins to be fore- shadowed. Throughout these three critical years of stress and shock momentous issues were brewing, destined to bring into sharp relief and typical collision the two giants of France and England, Napoleon and Nelson ; while all the time, under fate's invisible hand. Nelson was as surely tending 137 138 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON towards Naples and Emma, as Emma was being drawn towards Nelson. From the moment of her return in the late autumn of 1791 she began, at first under Hamilton's tuition, to study and understand the political landscape. Nowhere outside France did the Revolution bode omens more sinister than at the Neapolitan court. The Queen clearly discerned that her French sister and brother-in-law trembled on the brink of destruction. She knew that the epidemic of anarchy must endanger Naples among the first, and might involve the possible extinction of its dynasty. She was not deceived by the many false prophets crying peace where no peace was ; still less by the wild schemes for hairbreadth escapes which sent visionary deliverers scouring through Europe. Her one hope — soon rudely shattered — lay in Austria's power to effect a coalition of great powers and strong armies. She had just quitted the family council in Vienna, following on the death of her brother Joseph the Second, and the short-lived accession to the throne of her other brother Leopold, the pedantic philanthropist. Its object had been, in Horace Walpole's phrase, to ' Austriacise ' the position of the Italian Bourbons, by family inter-marriages and a betrothal.^ Her efforts were bent on a league against France, and it was for this that on her way home she had contrived a surprise meeting with the weak Pope Pius VI., penetrated the Vatican, abjured her anti-papal policy, and humiliated herself in the dust. And yet Louis XVI. besought her to suspend efforts which might rescue him, and shrank from embittering his false friends. Austria, too, was for seven years to prove a broken reed. Spain was never a whole-hearted enemy of France, and within three years was to become her ally. The Queen awoke to a fury of indignation and hopelessness. Her foes were those of her own household — her nobles, her husband, his Spanish brother and sister, — and herself Hitherto she had been reckoned an enlightened patroness, ' Of her daughter Maria to Leopold's son, the Grand Duke of Tuscany, soon to ascend the Austrian throne as Francis the Second, and to be branded as 'falso Italiano, falso Tedesco ' ; of her second daughter, Luigia Amalia, to the Archduke Ferdinand ; by the betrothal also of her eldest son, now only thirteen, to the sickly Archduchess Maria Clementina. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 139 compassing the equality and fraternity of subjects who had never required political liberty. She had stubbornly re- sisted the Spanish Machiavellianism which had manoeuvred to undermine those very freemasonries which Maria Caro- lina had founded and forwarded.^ Spain was, in truth, the key of the present position. Spain was befooling Ferdinand and spiting his wife at every turn. The Spanish queen coveted Naples for her own offspring, and the two queens abominated each other. She was quite aware that the pro-Spanish party, abetted by her blockhead of a husband, covertly designed the transference of the Crown of the two Sicilies to the Duke of Parma, while many of the Neapolitan nobles, affronted at the abolition of their feudal rights, were in secret confederation with it. She sprang from a house glorying in its despotic monopoly of popular principles, yet it was to such fatalities that these very principles were leading. Stability and authority had been her aims, yet the ground was fast slipping from beneath her feet. She was a true scion of the casuist Hapsburgs, who had always considered pride as a sacred duty, and who, if their system were imperilled, would be ready to defend it by conscientious crimes. In the refrain of her own subsequent letters, ' // faut /aire son devoir jusqu'au tonibemi! - And added to all this was the shifting mood of her consort, whose infidelities she (like the queen of our own George the Second) only condoned in order that his good humour might enable her to rule. He had always twitted her with being an ' Illuminata,' he now derided her as the 'Austrian hen.'^ His advisers would prompt him to rely more than ever on his Spanish kindred, to slight the Hapsburgs and herself. When Emma long afterwards claimed to have ' De-Bourbonised ' the Neapolitan court, it was to these conditions that she referred."* ''■ The court of Madrid had gone so far as to induce Gallo, through Pallanli, to make a raid on those societies and to brave the anger of their royal patroness. — Pep^, p. 17. * To Lady Hamilton, Eg. MS. 1615, f. 58. * Venice under the Yoke, etc., vol. ii. p. 48. The King said to Gallo, ' Ah ! Gallo, Gallo, se non fosse per quella Gallina d'Austria vi farei vedere chi sono.' * The non-perception of this fact has led Mr. Jeaffreson astray. I40 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Gallo, the foreign minister, leaned towards and upon Spain. Even Acton hitherto had been content to pro- pitiate the King by taking his cue from Madrid. The King himself had regarded England merely as a market for dogs and horses/ the Queen only as an enemy of Spain, That the attitude of both was shortly to be trans- formed was due to Emma's enthusiasm as spokeswoman for her husband. Even in February 1796 Emma wrote to Lord Macartney, who had just arrived at Naples, 'the Queen is worn out with her effort to persuade Ferdinand to take a decided attitude against the ply of Spain,' and that * she approves of all our prospects!'^ The moot question soon became, Was Naples to be Spanish or English 1 The Austrian influence, so prized by an Austrian princess, was on the wane. As England's advocate the light-hearted Emma was drawn into the political vortex, and assumed the mysterious solemnity befitting her part. In her perplexity it was to Acton that Maria Carolina turned. She thought him a man of iron, whereas he was really one of wood ; but he was methodical, pro- Austrian, and at the core pro-English. Under the imminence of crisis, he and Hamilton — still a man of pleasure, but not its slave — both came to perceive that unless the whole system of Europe was to be reversed, an Anglo-Sicilian alliance was impera- tive. Hamilton, however, was slower to discern the neces- sity which Emma realised by instinct. Writing in April 1792, he says: 'The Neapolitans, provided they can get their bellies full at a cheap rate, will not, I am sure, trouble their heads with what passes in other countries, and great pains are taken to prevent any of the democratic propaganda, or their writings, finding their way into this kingdom.'^ Even in 1795 he was to be more concerned with the success of his treatises on Vesuvius than with the tangle of treaties fast growing out of the situation.* It was not till 1796 that he took any strong initiative with ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 105. Lord Pembroke to Sir W. Hamilton, Oct. 16, 1791, where he complains of the King's sporting agent, ' Calabria.' " Morrison MS. 274. ^ Morrison MS. 208. ^ Morrison MS. 252. One of them was being read before the Royal Society. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 141 Acton. ^ The two Sicilies indeed were now a shuttlecock between the treacheries of Spain and the dilatoriness as well as venality of Austria.- But for England the French cataclysm meant something wholly different from its significance for the Continent. Great Britain stood alone and aloof from other powers. She was the nurse of traditional order and traditional liberty conjoined ; disorder and licence, although exploitable by political factions under specious masks, never appealed to the nation at large. Britain's upheavals had been settled by happy compromise more than a century before. Jacobinism menaced her ' free ' trade, and might strike even at her free institutions. She was a great maritime and a Mediterranean power whose coign of vantage in Gibraltar would prove useless if Naples and Sicily, Malta and Sardinia^ should fall to France. Sicily, indeed, had been one of her objectives in that great Utrecht Treaty which had transferred it to the friendly house of Savoy, while it secured Gibraltar and Port Mahon to Great Britain. And ever since, Spain had been England's sworn enemy. Spain was France's natural ally, nor would the revolutionary burst long deter the Spanish Bourbons from an anti- British policy. Spain had tricked Austria and braved Great Britain throughout the eighteenth century, yet it was on Spain that Maria Carolina's husband habitually relied. From England, too, throughout that century, had rained those showers of gold which had subsidised the enemies of Bourbon preponderance. ' Will England,' wrote Acton ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 2639, f. 333. He quotes Pontano's inscription in the Chapel of S. Maria : ' Audendo, agendoque res publica crescit, non his consiliis quae timidi caula appellant.' - The writer has a letter of October 31, 1795, ^'^om the burrowing Lord Bristol (then at Berlin) to Lady Hamilton, which tells her * The poor Austrian General [i.e. Wurmser] . . . had no orders, no permission from that execrable Council of War at Vienna, one half of which are publickly known to be sold to the National Convention. Lord Longford and his pedantick friend Mr. Knott are just arrived from Vienna — they assure me nothing can be more notorious or more publickly talked of than the Venality of the Council of War. . . Dearest Emma, tell our dear inestimable Queen from me that unless she has weight enough to get that infamous Council of War abolished, suppressed, annihilated, 'tis impossible that a General can either seize his advantage ox pursue it.' ' Under the then conditions of warfare. Nelson always insisted that Sardinia was the key to the Mediterranean position. 142 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON some years later to Hamilton, when Emma, as the Queen's ' minister plenipotentiary,' ^ had ' spurred ' them on, ' see all Italy, and even the two Sicilies, in the French hands with indifference? . . . We shall perish if such is our destiny, but we hope of selling dear our destruction.'- In England the remonstrant Burke forsook the pseudo- Jacobin Whigs. It was hoped, and not without reason, that Pitt as a great statesman might foresee the situation. But the difficulty all along in the British cabinet, and some- times the obstacle, was to prove Lord Grenville,^ cold, stiff, timid, official to a fault ; so hesitating that he twice coun- selled the two Sicilies to make the best peace they could with Buonaparte, before whom he quailed ;* and so diplomatic that, even after Nelson's Mediterranean expedition had been concerted between the two courts, he begged Circello, the Neapolitan Ambassador, to pretend discontent in public with what had just been privately ratified.^ In the same year, defending the ministry against the Duke of Bedford's abortive motion for their dismissal, and praising the gallant navy ' which had ridden triumphant at the same moment at the mouths of Brest and Cadiz and Texel,' the Secretary for Foreign Affairs could only be wise after the event. He could only defend the prolongation of war by Barere's threat of ' Delenda est Carthago,' by Condorcet's opinion that under a peace we should have been relieved of Jamaica, Bengal, and our Indian possessions ; by bemoaning England's vanished ' power to control the Continent,' by proclaiming that she was ' at her lowest ebb,' and by complaining that Austria had deserted the Alliance.*' Commenting on his attitude, thirteen years afterwards, towards Emma's claims, Canning, who warmly favoured them, dwells on the same characteristic of 'coldest caution.''' Such a spirit could ill ^ In June 1798. Eg. 1618, I. 7, ' Je vous fais mon ministre plenipotencier.' - Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 53- 55. ^ Cf. Acton's letter August 29, 1793, Eg. MS. 2639, f. 66, and ibid. f. 353, where Acton says that Granville always 'chicaned.' * Eg. MS. 2639, ff. 313, 325, 329. 5 Eg. MS. 2640, f. 63. '' Cf. British I^Iuseum 8132 D. , f. 9, 1-16. Greville, writing on January 10, 1792, says : ' The crisis of France is not far distant. Our Government will not dare involve us ; they are in alarms about India.' — Morrison MS. 201. ' Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 263. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 143 deal with the conjuncture. Mob-despotism was now the dread of Europe.^ Mob-rule was already rampant in France, though the time was still distant when the Marchioness of Solari could declare that the French had robbed her of all but the haunting memory of Parisian gutters swimming with blood." Acton acceded to the Queen's request with rigour, but his weak point lay in the fact that he was a born bureaucrat ; while the sort of bureaucracy that he favoured, one of secret inquisition, turned political offences into heresies, and Jacobins into martyrs. Bureaucracies may check, but have never stemmed, revolutions which are calmed — when they can be calmed — by commanding personality alone. A bureaucrat is never a trusted nor even a single figure, for he belongs to unpopular and unavailing groups and systems which from their nature must at best be temporary stop- gaps. As Jacobinism throve and persevered, the Lazzaroni, who execrated it as a foreign innovation, cheered their care- less King, but they came to hiss the Queen for her counte- nance of bureaucracy, until Nelson entered the arena, and Emma formed, in 1799, a 'Queen's party,' at the very moment when Maria Carolina dared not so much as show her face at Naples. Already in the spring the French events began to affect Naples. Mirabcau dead, the abortive escape to Varennes, Louis XVI. in open and abject terror, Danton and Petion bribed, the National Convention, the cosmopolitan cries of ' Let us sow the ideas of 1789 throughout the world. . . . We all belong to our country when it is in danger. . . . Liberty and equality constitute country,' spread their contagion broadcast. They did not yet inflame the Neapolitan middle class ; they never caught the Neapolitan people ; but their ^ Nelson's future letters constantly point to this factor. Deploring the condi- tion of Rome in August 1799, he observes to Sir James St. Clair Erskine : ' In Civita Vecchia are about 1000 Regulars with the whole country against them, but such mobs are going about plundering that they . . . are sometimes good Repub- licans, and sometimes their bitterest enemy. This mobbing sysUm has its desire of getting also into the Neapolitan Dominions, which would thus be in nearly as bad a stale as when in possession of the P'rench.' He then adverts to ' anarchy and confusion,' etc. Cf. the excerpt in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905. '^ She adds that but for her writing she must have gone mad. 144 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON leaven had already touched the offended nobles ^ and the ungrateful students. From the moment of Louis' imprison- ment in the Temple, his sister-in-law changed her tack and resolved to go ' Thorough.' The pulpits were pressed into an anti-Jacobin crusade. The administration of the twelve city wards, hitherto supervised by elected aldermen, was transferred without warning to chiefs of police as judges and inspectors. Denouncers and informers were hired, although as yet the brooding Queen used her spies for pre- caution alone, and not for vengeance. The republican seed of the secret societies, sown by her own hands, had borne a crop of democracy ripening towards harvest. Her academic reformers were fast developing into open revolutionaries. The red cap was worn and flaunted. Copies of the French Statute were seized in thousands as they lurked in sacks on the rocks of Chiaromonte ; two even found their way into the Queen's apartments. This conspiracy she hoped to nip in the bud. It had not assumed its worst proportions ; nor as yet had disloyalty thrown off the mask, and appeared as a bribed hireling of the National Convention.- The grisly horrors at Paris of 1792, preluding only too distinctly the crowning executions of 1793, called also for sterner mea- sures. By July, Beckford, an eye-witness, remarks that even Savoy was ' bejacobinised, and plundering, ravaging,' were 'going on swimmingly.'^ The Queen bestirred herself abroad. A league was formed between Prussia and Austria. The Duke of Brunswick issued his manifesto that one finger laid on Louis would be avenged. Danton exclaimed, ' To arms ! ' France, generalled by Dumouriez, hero of Jemappes, and Kellermann of Valmy, was invaded. The assassination of Gustavus of Sweden followed. But the brief victory of the confederate arms at Longwy soon yielded to the Valmy defeat. Monarchy was on its trial. Once more the Queen conferred with Acton, and their * Colonna, Riario, Pignatelli, etc., who had then no commerce with the professional class that the Queen had always exalted, and that the nobles were beginning to envy. ^ Morrison MS. 238. The writer has a letter in which Acton emphasises the extreme jeopardy of affairs in 1793. Pesched the banker, and Falco the physician, plotted even in 1794 to kill the King. ^ Morrison MS. 212. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 145 deliberations resulted in the detestable Star Chamber of the ' Camera Oscura.' Force was to be met by force, and cabal by cabal. Prince Castelcicala/ a far abler minister than Acton,^ was recalled from London to assist in its councils; Ruffo, not yet Cardinal, became its assessor; while the stripling Luigi di Medici, under the title of 'Regente della vicaria,' became its head inquisitor.^ But mercy was still shown. Colletta himself, an historian certainly unbiassed in the Queen's favour, admits that she had no idea of ' persecution.' Most odious means, however, were taken to crush a conspiracy of foreign and unpopular origin. Some hundreds of the better class, some thousands of the scum, were banished, or confined in the prisons of Lampedusa and Tremiti. Such is an imperfect outline of what hap- pened in 1 791 and 1792.* The interview of the Hamiltons with Marie Antoinette on their homeward journey has been already noticed. Nearly twenty-four years afterwards Lady Hamilton, never accurate, and constitutionally exaggerative, declared in her last memorial under the pressure of sore distress, that she then presented to the Queen of Naples her sister's last letter. There is little doubt that substantially she told the truth. She was the bearer of a missive, for Marie Antoinette neglected none of her now rare chances of communication. About the same time, however, the Marchioness of Solari also repaired from Paris to Naples with another communication. Emma has been roundly trounced for her statement by such as occasionally survey history with the diminishing end of their telescope. It is hardly worth while debating whether all credence should be denied to the bearer of an important letter simply on the ' lie was replaced as Ambassador in England by Sicigniano, after whose suicide the Marquis of Circello succeeded. - In Nelson's opinion. ' He was himself to head a fresh conspiracy in 1795. Cf. Hamilton's letter to G. Elliot at Vienna of January 27 of that year. Eg. MS. 263S, f. 147. This shows how untrue la fable conveuue has been in ascribing Medici's fall to Acton's vindictiveness. * In the foregoing, besides the MS. and authorities cited, cf. General Pepe's Memoirs, Dumas' History of the Italian Bourbons (from the Archives), Croce's references in Eleonora Fouseca di Pimcntel, and Coco's Saggio Storico, General Macdonald's Souvenirs, Nardini's Mimoires. K 146 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ground of priority. But, as a matter of fact, the Marchioness paid two visits about this time to Naples, and the month of the first may well have preceded that of Lady Hamilton's arrival there in 1791. Moreover, the Marchioness's own language points to a merely verbal message on the first occasion,^ and not to a 'letter' at all. Whether or no this incident fastened afresh the Queen's regard, certain it is that Maria Carolina gave the mot cFordre for Lady Hamilton's acceptability. Nobody disputed her position, least of all the English. She was at once formally presented to the Queen. By mid-April of 1792 Sir William Hamilton could tell Horace Walpole, just acced- ing to his earldom, that the Queen had been very kind, and treated his wife ' like any other travelling lady of dis- tinction.' 'Emma,' he adds, 'has had a difficult part to act, and has succeeded wonderfully, having gained by having no pretensions the thorough approbation of all the English ladies. . . . You cannot imagine how delighted Lady H. was in having gained your approbation in Eng- land. . , . She goes on improving daily. . . . She is really an extraordinary being.'- Within a month of her arrival in the previous autumn, and in the midst of successes, she sat down to write to Romney. The tone of this letter deserves close attention, for no under-motive could colour a communication to so old and fatherly a comrade : ' I have been received with open arms by all the Neapolitans of both sexes, by all the foreigners of every distinction. I have been presented to the Queen of Naples by her own desire, she [h]as shewn me all sorts of kind and affectionate attentions ; in short, I am the happiest woman in the world. Sir William is fonder of me every day, and I hope I [he ?] will have no corse to 1 Cf. Venice under the Yoke of France and of Austria, p. 78. The Mar- chioness states generally that (from 1791-93) she was entrusted with ' letters,' but explains the term in the same paragraph by averring that she ' was often charged with verbal messages of a nature too delicate to be committed to paper in those perilous times.' Mr. Jeaffreson has left this unnoticed, and he has assumed that the Marchesa paid her short and secret visit of 1791 after Emma's return from London. He evidently confuses this with the later visit of October 1793- But the Marchioness was herself by no means accurate in details. - Morrison MS. 208, April 17, 1792. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 147 repent of what he [h]as done, for I feel so grateful to him that I think I shall never be able to make him amends for his goodness to me. But why do I tell you this ? You was the first dear friend I open'd my heart to ; you ought to know me.^ . . . How gratefull then do I feel to my dear, dear husband that has restored peace to my mind, that has given me honors, rank, and what is more, innocence and happiness. Rejoice with me, my dear sir, my friend, my more than father ; believe me, I am still that same Emma you knew me. If I could forget for a moment what I was, I ought to suffer. Command me in anything I can do for you here ; believe me, I shall have a real pleasure. Come to Naples, and I will be your model, anything to induce you to come, that I may have an opportunity to show my gratitude to you. . , . We have a many English at Naples, Ladys Malm[e]sbury, Maiden, Plymouth, Carnegie, and Wright, etc. They are very kind and attentive to me ; they all make it a point to be remarkably cevil to me. Tell Hayly I am always reading his Triumphs of Temper ; it was that that made me Lady H.,for God knows I had for five years enough to try my temper, and I am affraid if it had not been for the good example Serena taught me, my girdle wou'd have burst, and if it had I had been undone ; for Sir W. minds more temper than beauty. He therefore wishes Mr. Hayly wou'd come, that he might thank him for his sweet-tempered wife. I swear to you, I have never once been out of humour since the 6th of last September. God bless you.'- Romney, whose friend Flaxman, now in Rome, counted himself among Emma's devotees,^ replied in terms of humble respect. He deprecated the liberty of sending a friend with a letter of introduction, and only wished that he could express his feelings on the perusal of her ' happyness.' ' May God grant it may remain so to the end of your days.'* How 'attentive' to her Lady Plymouth and the English ' Here follows the passage about her ' sense oi virtue ' not being overcome in her earliest distresses, quoted ante in chap. ii. * Morrison MS. 199. ' Morrison MS. 207, and cf. his interview and Hayley's with her and Nelson in \%02, poit, chap. xii. •• Morrison MS. 210. 148 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON sisterhood were at this early period is shown by a letter which changed hands during the present year. It is couched not only in terms of affection, but of trust. If the French terror became actual at Naples, Lady Plymouth would take refuge with Lady Hamilton, and 'creep under the shadow of her 'wings.' The leaders of English society relished, as always, a new sensation, and, away from England, delighted to honour one so different from themselves. While all this underground disturbance proceeded, the outward aspect of court and city was serenity itself. Ancient Pompeii could not have been more frivolously festive. Ill as they suited her mood, the Queen, from policy, encouraged these galas. They distracted the court from treason, they pleased her husband and people, and they attracted a crowd of useful foreigners, especially the English, who, during these two years, inundated Naples to their Ambassador's dismay. The distinguished English visitors of 1792 included the sickly young Prince Augustus, after- wards Duke of Sussex, whose delicate health and morganatic marriage^ alike added to Hamilton's anxieties. But for the disturbed state of the Continent, ' Vathek ' Beckford — to whom Sir William was always kind — would have revisited his kinsman also. He had not long quitted his 'dear' and queenly friend ' Mary of Portugal,' and was now travelling through Savoy with a retinue worthy of Disraeli's Sidonia and composed of half the emigres, musicians, and cooks — chefs dorchestre et de cuisine — of Versailles ;2 and Emma's old friend Gavin Hamilton was also among the throng.^ A correspondence* between husband and wife during the January of this year, and his absence with the King at Persano, is pleasant reading, and oictures a happy pair. The Ambassador, who up to now Lid found his business in sport, cheerfully roughing it on bread and butter, going ^ With Lady Augusta Murray, to whom he was a devoted husband in the teeth of his father's and brother's opposition. Lady Hamilton continued to enjoy his friendship long afterwards. The Estes, Nelson's and her friends and correspondents, were related. " Morrison MS. 212, 213. ^ Stowe MS. I020, f. 2. ■* Nelson Letters, vol. ii. pp. 137-139. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 149 to bed at nine and rising at five, reading, too, ' to digest his dinner,' is affectionate and playful. He was ' sorry,' he writes on leaving, that his ' dear Em ' must * harden ' herself to such little misfortunes as a temporary parting'; but he 'cannot blame her for having a good and tender heart' 'Believe me, you are in thorough possession of all mine, though I will allow it to be rather tough.' His diary of the hour flows from a light heart and pen. He tells her the gossip: 'Yesterday the courier brought the order of St. Stephano from the Emperor^ for the Prince Ausberg,^ and the King was desired to invest him with it. As soon as the King received it, he ran into the Prince's room, whom he found in his shirt, and without his breeches, and in that condition was he decorated with the star and ribbon by his majesty, who has wrote the whole circum- stance to the Emperor. Leopold may, perhaps, not like the joking with his first order. Such nonsense should certainly be done with solemnity ; or it becomes, what it really is, a little tinsel and a few yards of broad ribbon.' His watchful wife, in her turn, acquaints him with London cabals to dislodge him from office. ' Our conduct' he answers with indignation, ' shall be such as to be unattack- able. . . . Twenty-seven years' service, having spent all the King's money, and all my own, besides running in debts, deserves something better than a dismission. ... I would not be married to any woman but yourself for all the world.' And again, ' I never doubted your gaining every soul you approach. . . . Nothing pleases me more than to hear you do not neglect your singing. It would be a pity, as you are near the point of perfection.' The very etiquette of the Embassy he leaves with confidence in her hands. 'You did admirably, my dear Em., in not inviting Lady A. H.^ to dine with the prince, and still better in telling her honestly the reason. I have always found that going straight is the best method, though not ' Leopold. -' Tie was illiterate. Cf. Nelson Letters, p. 158. 'Having no opportunity of making love does nothing but talk of his new flame, which is Lady A. Hatton. I put him right, for he thought she spelt her name with two >/• instead of two //.' * Hatton. Cf. the last note. ISO EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the way of the world.^ You did also very well in asking Madame Skamouski, and not taking upon you to present her [to the Queen] without leave. In short, consult your own good sense, and do not be in a hurry ; and I am sure you will always act right. ... As the Prince asked you, you did right to send for a song of Douglass's,- but in general you will do right to sing only at home.' He also politely deprecates his plebeian mother-in-law's attendance at formal receptions. But Emma, throughout her career, dis- dained to be parted for a moment. Unlike raosX. paf'venues, she never blushed for the homely creature who had stood by her in the day of trouble, and her intense love for her mother, even when it stood most in her way, ennobles her character. The Neapolitan revelries were sometimes the reverse of squeamish : * Let them all roll on the carpet,' he writes, * provided you are not of the party. My trust is in you alone.' It should be marked that from other letters of this series it is evident that even thus early Lady Hamilton was copying and translating despatches. Sir William was naturally torpid, and his enthusiasm centred on the wife who bestirred him. His efforts to keep eternally young were already being damped by the deaths of contemporaries. That of his old intimate. Lord Pembroke, in 1794,^ was to evoke a characteristic comment : — ' It gave me a little twist ; but I have for some time perceived that my friends, with whom I spent my younger days, have been dropping around me.' The close of 1792 saw the first of those serious illnesses through which Emma was so often to nurse him. For more than a fortnight he lay in danger at Caserta. Lady Hamilton was ' eight days without undressing, eating, or sleeping.' The Queen and King sent constantly to in- quire. Although Naples was distant sixteen miles. Ladies Plymouth, Dunmore, and Webster, with others of the ^ Cf. Nelson's 'upright and straightforward.' - Lord W. Douglas, Sir W.'s relation. ^ The letter from which this excerpt comes is wrongly included in this series of 1792. A letter exists from him in June 1793. Morrison MS. 225. II TILL THE FIRST MEETING 151 British contingent, offered even to stay with her. She tells her dear Mr. Greville (how changed the appellation !) of her * great obligations,' and of her grief. * Endead I was almost distracted from such extreme happiness at once to such misery. . . , What cou'd console me for the loss of such a husband, friend, and protector ? For surely no happiness is like ours. We live but for one another. But I was too happy. I had imagined I was never more to be unhappy. All is right. I now know myself again, and shall not easily fall into the same error again. For every moment I feel what I felt when I thought I was loseing him for ever.' ^ This is the letter concerning her grand- mother to which reference has already been made. Since I lay stress on the fact that Emma was a typical daughter of the people both in scorn and affection, that she was warm-hearted, unmercenary, and grateful, and that she never lowered the natures of those with whom she was brought into contact, another excerpt may be pardoned: — * I will trouble you with my own affairs as you are so good as to interest yourself about me. You must know I send my grandmother every Cristmas twenty pounds, and so I ought. I have 200 a year for nonsense, and it wou'd be hard I cou'd not give her twenty pounds when she has so often given me her last shilling. As Sir William is ill, I cannot ask him for the order; but if you will get the twenty pounds and send it to her, you will do me the greatest favor ; for if the time passes without hearing from me, she may imagine I have forgot her, and I would not keep her poor old heart in suspense for the world. . . . Cou'd you not write to her a line from me and send to her, and tell her by my order, and she may write to you ? Send me her answer. For I cannot divest myself of my original feelings. It will contribute to my happiness, and I am sure you will assist to make me happy. Tell her every year she shal have twenty pound. The fourth of November last I had a dress on that cost twenty-five pounds, as it was Gala at Court; and believe me I felt unhappy all the while I had it on. Excuse the trouble I give you.' ' Morrison MS. 215; Caserla, December 4, 1792. 152 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON The end of 1792 and the whole of 1793 loomed big with crisis. The new year opened with the judicial murder of the French King, it closed with that of Marie Antoinette. Her execution exasperated all Europe against France. England declared war ; Prussia retired from the first Coalition, and the second was formed. An Anglo-Sicilian understanding ensued. Through the arrival of La Touche Treviile's squadron at Naples, the French sansculottes shook hands with the Italian. Hood's capture of Toulon, Napoleon's undoing of it, and Nelson's advent in the Agamemnon, opened out a death-struggle unfinished even when the hero died. To the Queen's promptings of temperament and habits of principle were now to be added the goads of revenge. Jacobinism for her and her friends soon came to mean the devil. And with this year, too, opened also Lady Hamilton's intimacy with the Queen, her awakening of her listless hwsband, and her keen endeavours on behalf of the British navy. The worst hysteria is that of a woman who is able to con- ceal it. Such was now the Queen's. The overture to this drama of 1793 was her formal dismissal of Citizen Mackau,^ for a few months past the unwelcome Jacobin representa- tive of France at the Neapolitan court; at the same time, the Queen's influence procured the dismissal of yet another 'citizen' ambassador at Constantinople.^ Treviile's fleet promptly appeared to enforce reparation. His largest vessel dropped anchor in face of Castel Del Uovo, and the rest formed in line of battle behind it. A council was called. The Anglo-Sicilian treaty was yet in abeyance, and with shame and rage Maria Carolina had to submit, and receive the minister back again. But this was not all. No sooner had Treville departed than a convenient storm shattered his fleet, and he returned to refit. His sailors ^ On his departure he took with him the family of Basseville his secretary, who had been murdered under the eyes of the Supreme Pontiff at Rome. Cf. Dumas' / Borboni. After Mackau returned, he was replaced for a time by the Comte de Michelle, he again by La Cheze, and he, in his turn, by Garat. Emma in her 'Prince of Wales' memorial of 1813 confuses Michelle with Garat. ^ Semouville. TILL THE FIRST MEETING I53 hobnobbed with the secret societies, and a definite re- volution began. France had hoped for attack ; open war being refused, she renewed her designs by stealth. The Queen, incensed beyond measure, redoubled her suspicions and her precautions. To the secret tribunal she added a closed 'Junta,' and the grim work of de- portation and proscription set in. All Naples, except the Lazzaroni, rose. Despite the Neapolitan neutrality, Maria now organised a second coalition against France, which was at first successful.^ The French, too, were beaten off Sardinia. In August she renewed her desperate attempts to save her sister ;2 the jailor's wife was inter- viewed. Archduchess Christine contrived to send the Marquis Burlot and Rosalia D'Albert with carte blanche on a mission of rescue. It was too late : they were arrested. But Toulon was betrayed by Trogoff to Hood, who took possession of it for Louis XVII. Meanwhile, repression reigned at Naples. Every French servant was banished ; some of the English visitors, among them Mr. Hodges, the present and future pesterer of Emma by his attentions, were implicated.^ The Queen, mistrust- ful of the crew who had played her false, turned to Emma in her misfortunes, for Lady Hamilton was now quite as familiar with the royalties as her husband.* One of the Neapolitan duchesses long afterwards insinuated to the Marchioness of Solari that Emma's paramount influence was due to spying on them and the libertine King.^ This may at first have been so (though envy supplies a likelier reason), but the real cause lies deeper. The Queen's corre- spondence commences in the winter of 1793, ^"d it is quite clear that its mainspring was sympathy. ' At Magonza. ■■^ She wrote to poor young Tonlan, ' Ama poco chi tcnic di morire.' ' Lord riervey's and the Prince of Wales's friend. Cf. Eg. MS. 2639, ff. 97 and 123. •* Cf. Morrison MS. 220, March 12, 1793. Hamilton to Grevillc. '' Abominable and unfounded rumours, both of her and the Queen, passed current among the French Jacobins, who fastened the same filth with as little foundation on Marie Antoinette. Emma told Greville how she despised and ignored the lying scandals of Paris which Napoleon afterwards favoured from policy. He used to call Maria Carolina ' Fredegonde,' in allusion to the cruel mistress of King Chilperic i. 154 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ' Par le sort de la naissance L'un est roi, I'autre est berger. Le hasard fit leur distance ; L'esprit seul peut tout changer.' ' The constraint of a traitorous and artificial court left the Queen without a confidante, and she welcomed a child of nature whom she fancied she could mould at will. The more her pent-up hatred fastened on her courtiers, the more she spited them by petting her new favourite. The friend- ship of queens with the lowly appeals to vanity as well as to devotion. It proved so with both Sarah Jennings and even more with the humbler Abigail Masham. In still greater degree did it now so prove with Emma. It was not long before she rode out regularly on a horse from the royal stables, attended by a royal equerry, and enjoying semi-royal privileges. Maria's haughty ladies-in-waiting, the Marchionesses of San Marco and of San Clemente, can scarcely have been pleased. Jealousy must have abounded, but it found no outlet for her downfall. That the Neapolitan nobility, at any rate, believed in her real services to England, is shown by the rumour among them that she was Pitt's informer. Henceforward dates the growth of an English party and an Anglo-mania at the Neapolitan court which was violently opposed alike by the pro-Spanish, the pro- Jacobin, and the ' down-with-the-foreigner ' parties. Emma, however, stood as yet only on the threshold of her political influence. In the June of that year, ' for political reasons,' Lady Hamilton informs Greville, * we have lived eight months at Caserta,' formerly only their winter abode, but now the Queen's regular residence during the hot months. ' Our house has been like an inn this winter.' (Sir William naturally sighed over the expense.) ' . . . We had the Duchess of Ancaster several days. It is but 3 days since the Devonshire family has left ; and we had fifty in our family for four days at Caserta. 'Tis true we dined every ^ It may thus be paraphrased : — * Random lot of birth can start Peasant one, another Queen. Chance has placed them far apart ; Mother-wit can change the scene.' J TILL THE FIRST MEETING 155 day at court, or at some casino of the King ; for you cannot immagine how good our King and Queen as been to the principal English who have been here — particularly to Lord and Lady Palmerston, Cholmondely, Devonshire, Lady Spencer, Lady Bessborough, Lady Plymouth, Sir George and Lady Webster. And I have carried the ladies to the Queen very often, as she as permitted me to go very often in private, which I do. ... In the evenings I go to her, and we are tete-a-tete 2 or 3 hours. Sometimes we sing. Yesterday the King and me sang duetts 3 hours. It was but bad. . . . To-day the Princess Royal of Sweden comes to court to take leave of their Majesties, Sir William and me are invited to dinner with her. She is an amiable princess, and as lived very much with us. The other ministers' wives have not shewed her the least attention because she did not pay them the first visit, as she travels under the name of the Countess of Wasa. . . . Her Majesty told me I had done very well in waiting on Her Royal Highness the moment she arrived. However, the ministers' wives are very fond of me, as the[y] see I have no pre- tentions ; nor do I abuse of Her Majesty's goodness, and she observed the other night at court at Naples [when] we had a drawing-room in honner of the Empress having brought a son, I had been with the Queen the night before alone en faniille laughing and singing, etc. etc., but at the drawing-room I kept my distance, and payd the Queen as much respect as tho' I had never seen her before, which pleased her very much. But she shewed me great dis- tinction that night, and told me several times how she admired my good conduct. I onely tell you this to shew and convince you I shall never change, but allways be simple and natural. You may immagine how happy my dear, dear Sir William is. . . . Wc live more like lovers than husband and wife, as husbands and wives go nowa- days. Lord deliver me ! and the English are as bad as the Italians, some few excepted. ' I study very hard, . . . and I have had all my songs set for the viola, so that Sir William may accompany me, which as pleased him very much, so that we study together. The English garden is going on very fast. The 156 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON King and Queen go there every day. Sir William and me are there every morning at seven a clock, sometimes dine there and allvvays drink tea there. In short it is Sir William's favourite child, and booth him and me are now- studying botany, but not to make ourselves pedantical prigs and shew our learning like some of our travelling neighbours, but for our own pleasure. Greffer^ is as happy as a prince. Poor Flint, the messenger, was killed going from hence. I am very sorry. He was lodged in our house and I had a great love for him. I sent him to see Pompea, Portici, and all our delightful environs, and sent all his daughters presents. Poor man, the Queen as expressed great sorrow. Pray let me know if his family are provided for as I may get something for them perhaps. . . . Pray don't fail to send the inclosed.'- But more than such surface-life was now animating Emma. A peasant's daughter, at length in the ascendant over an Empress, was receiving, communicating, intensify- ing wider impressions. When her Queen denounced, she abominated the Jacobins ; her tears were mingled with Maria's over the family catastrophes. She preached up to her the English as the avengers of her wrongs. She rejoiced with her over the Anglo-Sicilian alliance concluded in July. She longed for some deliverer who might justify her flights of eloquence. England had at last joined the allies and thrown down the gauntlet in earnest. The loth^ of September 1793 brought Nelson's first entry both into Naples and into the Am- bassador's house. He had been despatched by Lord Hood on a special mission to procure ten thousand troops from Turin and Naples after that wonderful surrender* of starved-out ^ Grafer — a trusted agent of Hamilton's. He afterwards became the manager of Nelson's Bronte estates. His wife was a scheming woman who, in later years, gave much trouble both to Nelson and Lady Hamilton. '- Probably relating to 'little Emma.' Morrison MS. 221; Caserta, June 2, 1793- ^ This is the date of arrival usually given, but a letter from Acton respecting salutes of ceremony, dated September 4, seems to point to that of a few days earlier. Cf. Eg. MS. 2639, f. 74. * August 22. Jl Lord Nelson. Ftoin an engraved medallion TILL THE FIRST MEETING 157 Toulon : — ' The strongest in Europe, and twenty-two sail of the line . . . without firing a shot. ' ^ The previous year had called forth two ruling strains in his nature : the one of irritable embitterment at his un- recognised solicitations for a command ; the other of patriotic exultation when Chatham ^ and Hood suddenly 'smiled' upon him, thanks, it would seem, to the impor- tunity of his early admirer and lifelong friend, the Duke of Clarence. For five years he had been eating out his heart on half-pay in a Norfolk village ; and even when the long- delayed command had come, crass officialism assigned him only a ' sixty-four ' and the fate of drifting aimlessly off Guernsey with no enemy in sight. If proof be wanted of Nelson's inherent idealism, it is found in the fact that in these long days of stillness and obscurity he was brooding over the future of his country, and devising the means of combating unarisen combinations against her. He was now almost thirty-five, and had been married six years and a half ;-^ his wife was five years younger than himself From his earliest years, at once restrained and sensitive, companionable and lonely, athirst for glory rather than for fame, simple as a child yet brave as a lion, he had ex- perienced at intervals several passionate friendships for women.* As a stripling in Canada he conceived so vehement an affection for Miss Molly Simpson'' that he was with diffi- culty withheld from leaving the service. After a short interval, Miss Andrews in France had rekindled the flame. His intensest feeling in the Leeward Islands had been for Mrs. Moutray, his ' dear, sweet friend.' His engagement to her associate, Frances Nisbet, had been sudden — some ^ Nelson to his wife, nth September (the day after his arrival at Naples). Laughton's Letters and Despatches, p. 51. The French always persisted in assert- ing the capitulation to have been caused by TrogofT's treachery. Cf. Dumas. - Second earl. First Lord of Admiralty, 1788. ' A copy of their marriage certificate is in the British Museum. Add. MS. 28,333, f- I- •* Cf. his letter announcing his engagement to his uncle, Sir William Suckling: ' You . . . will perhaps smile and say " This Horatio is ever in love.'" '•> Mary Simpson was a famous beauty at Quebec in 1782, when Nelson com- manded the sloop Albemarle. She was the daughter of Sandy Simpson, one of Wolfe's provost marshals, and eventually married Colonel Matthews, Governor of Chelsea Hospital. For the whole episode, cf. J. M . Le Moine's General Sir F. Haldemand (1858), Maple Leaves (2 vols., 1863), and Ficturesque Quebec (\%%2). 158 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON suspected from pique. The young widow of the Nevis doctor attracted him less by her heart than what he called her ' mental accomplishments, . . . superior to most people's of either sex.' These were, in truth, of a second-rate board- ing-school order. Nelson's unskilled, uncritical mind and his frank generosity always exaggerated such qualities in women, and not least in Emma, more self-taught than him- self. His wife's virtues were sterling, but her power of appreciation very limited. She was more dutiful than gentle, less loving than jealous ; her self-complacent cold- ness was absolutely unfitted to understand or hearten or companion genius. She entirely lacked intuition. Her outlook was cramped — that of the plain common-sense and unimaginative prejudice which so often distinguishes her class. She was a nagger, and she nagged her son. She was quite satisfied with her little shell and, ailing as she was, perpetually grumbled at everything outside it. But directly success attended her husband, she at once gave herself those social airs for which that class is also distinguished when it rises. She became ridicu- lously pretentious,^ It was this feature that disgusted Nelson's sisters in later years, as appears from many letters in the Morrison Collection. Some disillusionment succeeded as time familiarised him with the lady of his impulsive choice. She nursed him dutifully in 1797; but, for her, duties were tasks. At Bath, a short time before his eventful voyage of 1798, he was to express his delight at the charms of the reigning toasts ; but in steeling himself against temptation, he got no further than the avowal of having ' everything that was valuable in a wife.' - There are two sorts of genius, or supreme will : the cold and the warm. The one commands its material from sheer fibre of inflexible character and hard intellect ; the other ^ Even to the close of Nelson's life. On October 18, 1805, Mrs. Bolton tells Lady Hamilton from Bath, ' I saw Tom Tit [Lady N.'s sobriquet] yesterday in her carriage at the next door come to take Lady Charlotte Drummond out with her. . . . Had I seen only her hands spreadiuf; about, I should have known her.' — Morrison MS. 846. - There are other letters, however, with much warmer expressions, cf. National Re7new, January 1901, ' Lady Nelson: a Vindication,' and I now think that, in justice to Lady Nelson, the above criticism ought to be considerably softened. Her unconciliatory narrowness, however, seems certain. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 159 creates and enkindles its fuel by idealism. The former in England is signally illustrated in differing spheres by Wal- pole and Wellington ; the latter by Chatham and Nelson. Both of these shared that keen faculty of vision, really, if we reflect, a form of spiritual force, and allied to faith which, in volume, whether for individuals or nations, is irresistible. This sword of the spirit is far more powerful than ethical force without it ; still more so than merely conventional morality, which, indeed, for good or for ill, and in many partings of the ways, it has often by turns made or marred. Both, too, were histrionic — a word fre- quently misused. The world is a stage, and of all nature there is a scenic aspect. The dramatic should never be confused with the theatrical, nor attitude with affectation. And the visionary with a purpose is always dramatic. He lives on dreams of forecast, and his forecast visualises com- binations, scenes of development, characters, climax. When he is nothing but a lonely muser, or, again, an orator destined to bring other hands to execute his ideas, his audience is the future — the * choir invisible.' But when he himself acts the chief part in the dramas which he has composed, he needs the audience that he creates and holds. He depends on a sympathy that can interpret his best possibilities to himself. In Nelson's soul resided from boyhood the central idea of England's greatness. His intuitive force, his genius, incarnated that idea, and what Chatham dreamed and voiced. Nelson did. He realised situations in a flash, and, from first to last, his courage took the risk not only of action, but of prophecy.^ Indeed, his own motto may be said ^ A signal instance, recorded in the diary of Scott, his chaplain, has heen privately communicated to the writer. It occurred in 1805 when Nelson was chasing the French fleet to the West Indies. ' Afay 6. — Arrived in the harbour of Gibraltar; but because the wind has just come from the east we have sailed away. The fleet had been for so long a time baflled by contrary winds . . . that the favourable change . . . was quite unexpected by them. So much so, that officers and men had gone on shore, and the linen was landed to be washed. Lord Nelson, however, . . . perceived an indication of a probable change of wind. Off went a gun from the Victory, and up went the Blue Peter, whilst the Admiral paced the deck in a hurry, with anxious steps, and impatient of a moment's delay. The officers said, " Here is one of Nelson's mad pranks." But Nelson was nevertheless right. . . . This course Nelson pursued solely on his own responsibility. He said to me, "... To be burnt in effigy, or Westminster Abbey, is my alternative."' l6o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to have been that fine phrase of the other which he quoted to Lady Hamilton in the first letter which counsellvd the flight of the royal family in 1798 — ' The Boldest measures are the Safest!'^ George Meredith's badge of true patriotism fits Nelson beyond all men : * To him the honour of England was as a babe in his arms ; he hugged it like a mother.' - Nelson, again, was eminently spontaneous. There was nothing set or petty about him. He never posed as ' Sir Oracle.' He dared to disobey the formalists. He despised and offended insignificance in high places ; the prigs and pedants, the big-wigs of Downing Street, the small and self-important purveyors of dead letter, the jealous Tritons of minnow-like cliques. Above all, he abhorred from the bottom of his honest heart the 'candid friend' — 'willing to wound and yet afraid to strike ' ; but he honoured — to return from Pope's line to Canning's — 'the erect, the manly foe.' Clerical by association, the son of a most pious, the brother of a most worldly clergyman, his bent was genuinely religious, as all his letters with their trust in God and their sincere ' amens' abundantly testify. To clergymen he still remains * the great but erring Nelson.' But his God was the God of truth, and justice, and battles — the tutelary God that watches over England ; and he himself owns emphatically in one of his letters that he could never turn his cheek to the smiter. He liked to consecrate his ambitions, but am- bition, even in childhood, had been his impulse. ' Nelson will always be first' had been ever a ruling motive. And, man of iron as he was in action, out of it he was unconstrained and sportive.^ He loved to let himself go ; he delighted in fun and playful sallies. He formed a band 1 Add. MS. 34,989, f. 12 (one of our newly found letters): 'And may the words of the great Mr. Pitt, Earl of Chatham, be instilled into the Ministry of this country, " The Boldest measures are (he Safest." ' Oct. 3, 1798. - Khoda Fleming. ^ It may not be out of place to suljjoin here the character of Nelson given in a letter to Lady Hamilton, of July 1803, by John Scott, his secretary, and then with him off Toulon in the Attiphion : ' In my travels through the service I have met with no character in any degree equal to his Lordship. His pene- tration is quick, juiigment clear, wisdom great, and his decisions correct and decided ; nor does he in company appear to have any weight on his mind, so cheerful and pleasant that it is a happiness to be about his hand. In fact, he is a great and wonderful character.' — Morrison MS. 720. TILL THE FIRST MEETING i6i of firm believers, and he believed in them with enthusiasm — an enthusiasm which accentuated his bitterness whenever it was damped or disappointed. A daredevil himself, he loved daredevilry in others. In Emma as he idealised her, he hailed a nature that could respond, encourage, brace, and even inspire, for she was to be transfigured into the creature of his own imaginings. She was his Egeria. It was a double play of enthusiastic zeal and idealisation. She fired him to achieve more than ever she could have imagined. He stirred her to appear worthier in his eyes. She wreathed him with laurel ; he crowned her image with myrtle. Many to whom the fact is repugnant refuse to see that this idealised image of Emma in Nelson's eyes, however often and lamentably she fell short of it, was an influence as real and potent as if she had been its counterpart. Her nearest approach to it may be viewed in her letters of 1798. It is idle to brand her as destitute of any moral standard ; her inward standards were no lower than those of the veneered ' respectables ' around her. Her outivard conduct, as Sir William's partner, had been above suspicion ; the sin of her girlhood had been long buried. And in many respects her fibre was stronger than that of a society which broadened its hypocrisies some thirty years later, when Byron sang ' You are not a moral people, and you know it, Without the aid of too sincere a poet.' The radical defect in her grain was rather the com.plete lack of anything like spiritual aspiration. Hers, too, were the vanity that springs from pride, and the want of dignity bred of lawlessness. She had been a wild flower treated as a weed, and then transplanted to a hothouse ; she was a spoiled child without being in the least childlike ; she was self-conscious to the core. But if she was ambitious for herself, she was fully as ambitious for those that she loved, and she admired all who admired them. It is idle to dwell on the 'vulgarity' of an adventuress Adventure was the breath of Nelson's nostrils, and Emma's unrefined clay was animated by a spirit of reality which he loved. It is idle, again, to talk of his 'infatuation,' for that L i62 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON word covers every deep and lasting passion in idealising natures. It is equally idle, as will be seen when we come to proofs, to say that Nelson was a ' dupe ' in any portion of his claims for her ' services ' which lay within his own experience.^ With regard to these he was absolutely aware of what had actually transpired, and if it had not transpired he himself was a liar, which none have had the temerity to assert. The only sense in which Nelson could ever be styled the ' dupe ' of Emma would be that he was utterly cheated in his estimate of her. If she merely practised upon his simplicity, if there was nothing genuine about her, and all her effusiveness was a tinsel mask of hideous dissimulation ; if she was a tissue of craft and cunning, then she was the worst of women, and he the most unfortunate of men. Wholly artless she was not ; designedly artful, she never was. She was an unconscious blend of Art and Nature. In all her letters she is always the same receptive creature of sincere volitions and attitudes; and these letters, when they describe actions, are most strikingly confirmed by inde- pendent accounts. They are genuine. Her spirit went out to his magnetically ; each was to hypnotise the other. Had she ever been artful she would have feathered her nest. Throughout her career it was never common wealth or prodigal youth that attracted her, and in her greatest dependence she had never been a parasite. It was talent and kindness that she prized, and towards genius she gravitated. It is not from the bias either of praise or blame that her character must be judged. It is as a human document that she should be read. The real harm in the future to be worked by her on Nelson was that of the falsehood, repugnant to them both, which, eight years later, the birth of Horatia entailed — an evil aggravated by reaction in the nature of a puritan turned cavalier, and anxious to twist the irregularities of a ' Nell Gwynne defender-of-the-faith ' into consonance with the forms of his upbringing. At Naples, Nelson and his men found a royal welcome m every sense of the word. The King sailed out to greet ^ With regard to all of them his solemn affirmation in his last codicil is that they had happened to his ' knowledge.'' TILL THE FIRST MEETING 163 him/ called on and invited him thrice within four days.^ He was hailed as the ' Saviour of Italy,' and while he was feted, his crew, who from the home Government had ob- tained nothing but 'honour and salt beef,'^ were provisioned and petted. A gala at San Carlo was given in their honour; six thousand troops were offered without hesita- tion ; a squadron was despatched. The atmosphere of despairing indecision was dispersed by his unresting alert- ness, his lightning insight, his faith in Great Britain and himself, and the heroic glow with which he invested duty. The phlegmatic Acton was impressed. His only fear was lest England's co-operation with Naples should provoke the interference of the allies, and be impeded by it.* He superintended all the arrangements, for he was eminently a man of detail ; he brought Captain Sutton^ (who stayed throughout the autumn) to see the King.° Nelson he mis-styled ' Admiral,' and there for the moment his respect ended. But the hospitable Hamilton, under the sway of Emma's enthusiasm, was enraptured. He brought him to lodge at the Embassy in the room just prepared for Prince Augustus, who was returning from Rome. He caught a spark of the young Captain's own electricity, he mentioned him in despatches, and conceived friendship at first sight. Here was a real man at last, a central and centralising genius. His wife shared and redoubled his astonishment. Here was a being who, like herself, ' loved to surprise people.' Here was one who, indefatigable in detail, and almost sleepless^ in energy, took large views, was a statesman ;is well as a sailor, and showed the quali- ties of a general besides ; one, too, who although a stern disciplinarian, could romp and sing with his midshipmen, ' Dumas' Storia de' Borboni, p. 149. - On September 24 he tells his brother William thai he ' was placed at Ferdinand's right hand before our Ambassador and all the Nobles present.' •' Letter to Mrs. Nelson, Sept. 7, 1793 (cited Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 40) : ' My poor fellows have not had a morsel of fresh meat or vegetables for near nineteen weeks, and in that time I have only had my foot twice on shore at Cadiz." * Eg. MS. 2639, f. 74. He resented Lord Mulgrave's proposal of concert- ing plans. ^ Of the Ramilies. Cf. Morrison MS. 227 ; Eg. MS. 2639, f. iii, « Eg. MS. 2639, ff. 83, 87, 91. " He seldom slept more than four or five hours. i64 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON one who made their health and his country's glory his chief concern. Moreover, his appearance, small, slight, wiry in frame, and rugged of exterior, was nevertheless prepossess- ing and imposing. When he spoke, his face lit up with his soul ; nor had he yet lost an eye and an arm. And his contempt for Jacks-in-office, which seldom failed to show itself, chimed with her own — with that of a plebeian who in after years constantly used that Irish phrase, adopted by Nelson, ' I would not give sixpence to call the King my uncle.' Here was one who might rescue her Queen and shed lustre on Britain ; who might prove the giant-killer of the Jacobin ogres. What Emma thought of her guest may be gathered from two facts, one of which is new. Though they were not to meet again until 1798,^ Nelson and both the Hamiltons were in constant and most sympathetic correspondence for the next five years. In 1796 Sir William recommended him to the Government as ' that brave officer, Captain Nelson ' ; * if you don't deserve the epithet,' he told him, ' I know not who does. . . . Lady Hamilton and I admire your constancy, and hope the severe service you have undergone will be handsomely rewarded.'- And her first letter of our new series in 1798, written hurriedly on June 17th while Nelson, anchored off Capri, remained on the Vanguard, contains this sentence : ' I will not say how glad I shall be to see you. Indeed I cannot describe to you my feelings on your being so near us.'^ A woman could not so express herself to a man unseen for five years unless the twelve days or so spent in his company had pro- duced a deep effect. Every concern of his already enlisted her eagerness. His stepson, Josiah, then a young midship- man, was driven about by her and caressed. She laughingly called him her cavaliere servente. As yet it was only attraction, not love for Nelson. This very third anniversary of her wedding day had enabled her proudly to record that her husband and she were more inseparable than ever, and ^ The received version, of course, gives their second encounter as after the battle of the Nile. But there is strong reason for thinking, as will be seen, that they met on the 17th of June in that year. 2 Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 188. ' Add. MS. 34,989, f. i. TILL THE FIRST MEETING 165 that he had never for one moment regretted the step of their union. But she did fall in love with the quickening force that Nelson represented. Infused by the ardour of her Queen, proud of the destiny of England as European deliverer, urged by her native ambition to shine on a bigger scale, she reflected every hue of the crisis and its leaders. If his hour struck, hers might strike also. He, she, and Sir William had for this short span already realised what the legend round Sir William's Order of the Bath signified.^ ' Tria juncta in uno^ — three persons linked together by one tie of differing affections. The sole mentions of Emma by Nelson at this time are in a letter to his brother, and another to his wife, already noticed. 2 But that her influence had already begun to work is proved by the fact that he carefully preserved the whole series of her letters of the summer and autumn of 1798, which find their place in the Appendix to this volume. Three days only after he had started for Leghorn, he wrote as follows : ' In my hurry of sailing I find I have brought away a butter-pan. Don't call me an ungrateful guest for it, for I assure you I have the highest sense of your and Lady Hamilton's kindness, and shall rejoice in the oppor- tunity of returning it. . . . The sending off the prints adds to the kindness I have already received from you and Lady Hamilton.'^ And when at the close of August in the next year he stayed at Leghorn once more, he assured Sir William how glad he would have been to have visited them again, 'had the state of the Agaftiemnon permitted it,' but 'her ship's crew are so totally worn out, that we were glad to put into the first port, . . . therefore for the present I am deprived of that pleasure.'* When Nelson was not dining at court or concerting operations with the Ministers, he was at the Embassy or Caserta, meeting the English visitors, who included the delicate Charles Beauclerk, whom the artistic Lady ' She uses the phrase already in our correspondence of September 1798. - ' Lady Ilaniihon has been wonderfully good and kind to Josiah. She is a young woman of amiable manners, and who does honour to the station to which she is raised.' — Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 42. ' Morrison MS. 226, Sept. 24, 1793. * Ibid. 245, Aug. 31, 1794. i66 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Diana had commended to Emma's charge.^ All was joy, excitement, preparation. ' I believe,' wrote Nelson, ' that the world is now convinced that no conquests of importance can be made without us.' " Nelson had aroused Naples from a long siesta, and henceforward Emma sings ' God save the King' and calls for ' Hip, hip, hurrah ! ' which she teaches the Queen, at every Neapolitan banquet. Naples is no more a hunting-ground for health or pleasure, but a focus of deliverance. It is as though in our own days the Riviera should suddenly wake up as a centre of patriotism and a rallying-ground for action. Within a few years Maria Carolina could write to Emma that she sighed for the ' brave, loyal, Nelson ' and his party of ' magnanimous ' English, whom she loves and for whose glory she has vowed to act.^ She is ever dilating on ' your great and heroic nation.' As for Nelson, she 'cherishes and admires him with the truest attachment.' On September 24th Nelson purposed a slight mark of gratitude for the hospitality and the substantial reinforce- ments so liberally proffered. The Agamemnon was all flowers and festivity. He had invited the King, the Queen, the Hamiltons, Acton, and the Ministers to luncheon. The guests were awaiting the arrival of the court under a cloudless sky amid the flutter of gay bunting and all the careless chatter of southern mirth. Suddenly a despatch was handed to the captain. He was summoned to weigh anchor and pursue a French man-of-war with three vessels stationed off Sar- dinia. Not an instant was lost. The guests dispersed in excitement. When Ferdinand arrived in his barge, it was to find the company vanished, the decks cleared, and the captain buried in work. Within two hours Nelson had set sail for Leghorn,* which he had immediately to quit for Toulon. Calvi and its further triumph awaited him after- wards. ^ Morrison MS. 223, July 20, 1793. With the message that 'if it is possible she should feel the least spark of gratitude for the admiration of such a poor animal as I am, she can fully repay me by joining you in the protection of my son.' ^ Laughton's Despatches, p. 43, Sept. 11, 1792. '^ Eg. MS. 161 5, f. 83, December 1796. * Cf. Jeatfreson, Queen of Naples, vol. i. p. 225 ; Laughton's Despatches, P- 52- TILL THE FIRST MEETING 167 But over the bright horizon was fast gathering a cloud no bigger than a man's hand. By the end of the year the Queen was again in the depths. Her sister had been executed with infamy. Buonaparte — whom Nelson heard described at Leghorn as an ' ugly, unshaven little officer' — had shot into pre-eminence and had worked his wonders ; Toulon was evacuated. At home fresh conspiracies were discovered, this time among the nobles. The best names were implicated. The Dukes of Canzano, Colonna, and Cassano, the Counts of Ruvo and Riario, Prince Carac- ciolo the elder were arrested. The whole political land- scape was overcast. Next year was to be one of ' public mourning and prayer,' of plague, famine, and pestilence. The ragged remnant of the squadron, forwarded with such royal elation to Toulon, returned in shame for shelter ; and with it the ship of Trogoff, whom the French had branded as traitor. Two hundred victims had been slaughtered, four hundred languished in French prisons. These fresh disasters were heightened and shadowed by the terrible earthquake of June 12-16, when the sun was blotted out; and while the Archbishop, grasping the gilt image of St. Januarius, groped his way in solemn procession to the cathedral, the darkened sky bombarded the interceding city with emblematic bolts of relentless artillery.^ ^ Dumas' / Borboni di NapoH. CHAPTER VII ' STATESWOMAN ' 1794-1797 ' STATESWOMAN ' is Swift's term for Stella. It fits better the Trilby of the political studio. The muse as medium was already being transferred from attitude to affairs. Since Nelson's brief sojourn and its keen impress, the Queen, under growing troubles, leaned more and more on the English. The King's pro-Spanish faction was now defied ; even the pro-Austrian group lost ground and flagged. Acton, save for a brief interval, remained her right hand — hie, haec, et hoc et omnia, as they now styled him. The Hamiltons' enthusiasm for the budding hero had communicated itself through Emma to her royal friend, who had hitherto cared little even for the English language. Maria Carolina clung more closely to a con- soler not only responsive and diverting, but unversed enough in courts to be flattered by the intimacy and free in it. They were constantly together; by 1795 so often as every other day.^ It was ' naturalness ' and ' sensibility ' once more that prevailed. Doubtless, policy entered also into her motives. Notes to Emma would pass unsuspected where notes to Sir William might be watched. Verbal confidences to a frequenter of the palace would never excite the curiosity which Sir William's formal presence must arouse. But the bond of policy was mutual. Hamilton encouraged his wife to glean secret informa- tion for the British Government. What the Queen did not at first realise, though afterwards she recognised it to the full, was Lady Hamilton's ' native energy of mind ' which 1 Add. MS. 34,710 D. Hamilton to Greville ; Caserta, Nov. 17, 1795. 16S J:Z£ia^yy l^^6^y;^m'^^:my.,■£^^ "~^€ytCiS^ ,~.^ftcf7rzyyti^,e^ .^:?ti^:'e'f^^^^.^^^'(i^ example, the Queen sends three papers 'confiden- tially,' 'which may be useful to your husband.' Cf. Eg. MS. 1615, ff. 20-22 containing another example. It is needless to multiply instances. One citation only will illustrate Emma's initiative. In Hamilton's despatch of April 30, 1795, he says, 'However, Lady Hamilton having had the honour of seeing the Queen yesterday morning, H.M. was pleased to promise me one, etc' In another of the following year he speaks of documents being ' communicated ' to him 'as usual.' ^ Cf. Emma's transcript of this ciphered despatch, March 31, 1795, tof^ether with the Queen's note forwarding it to her, Eg, MS. 1615, f. 22, and Emma's reference to the courier and her having 'got into politicks,' April 19. Morrison MS. 259, 263. On June 9 she copied another despatch from Galatone (Prince Belmonte), ibid. 265. Much earlier in the year the Queen communicated hidden information about Spain and rumours about Hood having got out of Toulon, Eg. MS. 1617, f. 3. 'STATESWOMAN' 191 references to it in the Acton correspondence with Hamilton of these very dates. Nor is it any answer to Emma's activities, even in this and less material years, that she voiced the Queen's urgent interest, because it is abundantly manifest that the Queen, in her need, did for Emma what she would never have done for Hamilton apart, while in re- turn Emma doubtless communicated also Nelson's Mediter- ranean information to Maria Carolina. She had suddenly become a safe and trusted go-between, and none other at this juncture could have performed her office. The supine Sir William had at last been pricked into action. He had now every incentive to earn the King of England's gratitude. In a private missive to Lord Grenville of April 30, 1795, alluding to the communication of this very ' cipher of Galatone,' he himself asserts, ' Your Lordship will have seen by my despatch of 21st April the unbounded con- fidence which the Queen of Naples has placed in me and my wife' ^ Emma could now advantage not only herself and her country, but her royal friend and her own husband — Triajuncta in uno. But the position in the late summer of 1796 was far more serious both for Naples and England than it had ever been before. Acton had been dallying. During the interval Ferdinand had been literally pelted with letters from Charles, menacing, cajoling, persuading him. Already in August Hamilton had communicated secrets respecting the movements of the French and Spanish squadrons.- Every one knew that Spanish retirement from the European Coalition was soon to be succeeded by some sort of league; but nobody, either at Naples or in England, could ascer- tain its exact conditions revealed to Ferdinand alone. If it was to be (as it was) an alliance of offence, the issues must prove momentous for Great Britain. All was kept a profound secret. About mid-September 1796 Charles the Fourth's final ^ Cited by Professor Laughton in his Nchon^s Last Codicil (ColburnV United Service Magazine, April 1S89) from P.R.O. and F.O. Records, Spain (1795), 38S. - Cf. the excerpt in Sotheby's catalogue of his autograph document sold in May of this ycu (1905). It bears dale August 16, 1796. 192 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON epistle reached the hands of his Neapolitan brother.^ The murder was out. The compact between the two courts was fixed as one of war to the knife against the allied powers, among whom England was wavering and Austria on the verge of concluding a scandalous peace. Ferdinand, who alone knew what was impending, must have chuckled as he thought how he had worsted his masterful spouse. If Emma could only clear up the mystery and the un- certainty, England might be forearmed against the veiled sequel of that long train of hidden pourparlers which she had been able to discover and announce during the previous year ; and in such a case she counted with assurance on her country's gratitude towards her and her husband. How the Queen or Emma, or both, obtained the loan of this document, whether out of the King's pocket, as Emma avers in her Prince Regent's memorial, and Pettigrew, with embellishments, in \\\sLife of Nelson; or whether, according to the posthumous Memoirs of Lady Haniiltori, through a bribed page, does not concern us. Such strokes of the theatre are, at any rate, quite consistent with the atmosphere of the court. The sole question is : Did she manage to receive and transmit it ? Professor Laughton, in trying to identify Emma's claim with the occasion of Galatone's 'ciphered letter' of the spring of 1795, has ignored somewhat the precise applica- bility both of her own wording and Nelson's. The letter to which I apply her pretensions, was in Spanish — a ' private letter,' as they describe it, and not a ' letter in cipher ' like the one received from Galatone in the year preceding. Moreover, it will be found on reference to the Appendix - that what Emma seems really to have distinguished herself by procuring in 1795, was not so much the ' letter in cipher ' as the clue for deciphering it. Is there any distinct circumstance in her favour to counterweigh the hypotheses against her? One such exists ' This was not the letter cited by Mr. Jeaffreson in his Queen of Naples and Lord Nelson (vol. ii. p. 206), for this only states that since P'rance has at last got a moderate Government and the Jacobins are utterly ruined, he will bcghi negotiations. The real document is a later one, as Mr. Jeaffreson admits on the next page. 2 Note F. 'STATESWOMAN' 193 of some weight. It relates to her statement that a private messenger was despatched with the document to London. Sir William Hamilton forwarded the critical news in a 'secret' despatch to Lord Grenville. It is dated September 21, 1796;^ and the bearer of it, as will be seen, started on the 23rd. It should be observed that this lengthy epistle is exceptional in only transmitting the purport of the letter, and not, as habitually before and afterwards, either copies of hazardous documents, or, in earlier cases, the originals themselves.- On this very September 21st the Queen of Naples wrote to thank Emma for putting at her service the unexpected medium of 'the poor Count of Munster's courier,' available through his employer's decease, though the usual couriers were also at hand. She says that she will profit by the opportunity, and that Emma shall receive her 'packet' to-morrow.3 Acton, once more addressing Hamilton on September 22, and before this special courier had started, begged him to include both his and the Queen's despatches to Circello, Ambassador at St. James's, ' by the courier which \sic\ goes to-morrow for London.'* On this identical September 21, 1796, once again Lady Hamilton herself sat down for a hurried chat with Greville. ' We have not time,' she says, ' to write to you, as we have been 3 days and nights writing to send by this courrier letters of consequence for our Government. They ought to be gratefull to Sir William and myself in particular, as my situation in this Court is very extraordinary , and what no person [h]as yet arrived at.'^ * Cited from the P. R.O. by Professor Laughton. " He had consistently so done heretofore. On April 28, 1795, for example, Emma specially endorses the fact of her husband sending the original of the Queen's letter to England. Eg. MS. 161 5, f. 22. On October 3 following, divulging the secret articles of the Gallo-IIispanian treaty, he encloses Acton's original letter (cf. Professor Laughton's article). Emma's own copy of the succeeding secret articles between France and Naples remains too in her hand- writing. Morrison MS. 289. The original must have been forwarded. In the present case such a document must have been of necessity only lent to be copied and returned without delay ; nor could the Queen have ever allowed her name to transpire. It was her husband's secret, and probably purloined. 3 Eg. MS. 1615, f. 50. ^ Eg. MS. 2639, f. 313 et seq. " Morrison MS. 287. N 194 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON The coincidence of these combined statements of two successive days suggests the 'poor Count of Munster's' courier as the possible bearer both of official despatches and of Emma's private copy of the King of Spain's most crucial declaration.^ There are two alternatives with regard to Hamilton's exceptional omission to forward some copy at least of such a document, and both are in Emma's favour. Either he feared to do so, in which case Emma could truthfully describe her husband's detailed resume oi the information procured at her instance as the 'King of Spain's letter'; or — as the whole course of their custom confirms — she copied it verbatim and forwarded her copy by special messenger, after hastily restoring the original through the Queen to the unsuspecting King. In no case could it have been suffered to remain long out of his possession. Professor Laughton, pinning Lady Hamilton's claim to the less grave issues of 1795, and not, as I hope to have made clear, to their critical upshot on which the case is here rested, has urged with some force that no such document has yet been found in the British archives. But I am convinced that he will be the first to admit that many important documents are mentioned in the secret despatches of Hamilton alone, which have not as yet come to public light, if, indeed, they have not been destroyed ; more- over, copies, and even originals, of official records, relating to the period and the persons, have appeared in the auction- rooms during recent years, and must have been parted with by their recipients. The King of Spain's letter itself, how- ever, exists elsewhere, and is familiar. Hamilton's risum^ of its contents in his despatch is so faithful and circum- stantial as to warrant the certainty that he had seen it. The Queen could not have lent it for long, and by established habit must have done so through Emma. If it was copied, Emma, by the same custom, must have been its copyist. ' This is by no means the sole occasion of a special messenger being employed in despatches to Lord Grenville. In one of 1795 Hamilton says his own servant will take it as far as Rome {P.R.O., F.O. Records (Spain) 388, cited by Professor Laughton). In another, that a 'person' is conveying it. But none of these are so exceptional as the chance courier in question. 'STATESWOMAN' 195 Mr. Jeaffreson has further dwelt on the unlikelihood of such a sum^ as Emma names being spent on retaining the messenger out of her private purse, when her allowance was limited to ;^200 a year. But this allowance was only nominal. Had he scrutinised the Morrison Collection, he would have seen that for some time she had been authorised by her husband to overdraw her account in view of increas- ing requirements.^ Minutiae, too, about Sir William's state of health in September 1796 to refute her allegation of his ill-health, at the time when she transmitted the contents of the letter to England, seem to me out of place. He was constantly in bed and out of it within a few days from the opening of 1795 to the close of 1796. Everything, it must be conceded, remains inconclusive. But the critic's whole argument is also a balance of probabilities. All rests on circumstantial evidence merely, and Professor Laughton himself seems to have drawn mistaken inferences from the documents of 1795.^ It is possible, of course, that this claim also may have confused some of the events of the two years, especially Hamilton's illness ; or, on the other hand, even that this crucial letter of 1796 might have been forwarded by her during the next month, when she is still to be found tran- scribing documents, and endorsing effusive gratitude on one of the Queen's letters."* But that her story, stripped of accidentals, is a myth, I cannot bring myself to believe. Even Lord Grenville, thirteen years afterwards, rejected her claims on grounds far other than their fabrication.^ That during her future she proved often and otherwise blameworthy, that her distant past had been soiled, are scarcely reasons for discrediting the substance of her story in the teeth of inferences as telling as have been marshalled against it ; nor should Greville's repeated acknowledg- ' Hamilton in the succeeding November paid eighty ducats himself to a special messenger conveying despatches to Bastia. Cf. Sotheby's catalogue of May 17, 1905, giving an excerpt from a document to that effect. - Morrison MS. 250; Cascrta, December iS, 1794. 'lie told me I might, for I have so many occasions to spend my money that my 2 hundred pounds will scarcely do for me.' =» Cf. Appendix, Note V. * Eg. MS. 1615, f. 62. ' Cf. especially Canning's letter to Rose, July 5, 1809. Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 263, and ^osi, chap. xv. 196 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ments of her natural candour be forgotten. To every motive for political exertion had now been added immense opportunity. There is ample reason why she should have used it for her country's advantage. She was no dabbler. She had wished to play a big part, and she was playing it. She had every qualification for acquitting herself well in the arena where she longed to shine, and promptitude alone could ensure success. Gloom deepened with the opening of the year 1797, but it riveted the Neapolitan House faster to England. The many French immigrants exulted. The pro-Spanish party and all the Anglophobes became confident. Austria had ignobly desisted,^ and her ministers were rewarded by diamonds from the Pope.^ Great Britain — hesitating though she seemed — remained the sole champion against Buona- parte. Lord St. Vincent's name and Nelson's rang throughout Europe on the ' glorious Valentine's day,' and Emma infused fresh hope in the downcast Queen. She delighted to vaunt England's sinew and backbone. She prevented Hamilton from relaxing his efforts, and kept him at his post of honour. She was already ambitious for Nelson. Maria Carolina at last divined that Buonaparte's objective was the Mediterranean, But Nelson had divined the aims of France earlier, when he wrote in October 1796, * We are all preparing to leave the Mediterranean, a measure which I cannot approve. They at home do not know what this fleet is capable of performing ; anything and every- thing.'^ But Downing Street, in the person of the narrow- sighted Lord Grenville, still closed its eyes, shut its ears, and hardened its heart. At Rome the French republicans organised an uprising, and were driven for shelter into Joseph Buonaparte's Palazzo Corsini. He himself was 1 By the Peace of Campoformio Austria ceded the Low Countries to P'rance ; Milan, Mantua, Modena to the Cisalpine Republic. Venice was for the moment left to the Emperor, but France regained the Ionian Islands. The Peace of Tolentino turned the Romagna into a Republic. '•^ Dumas, p. 204. 2 Prof. Laughton's Nelson Letters and Despatchts, p. 109. The Neapolitan peace with France, however, disgusted him, and made him think it time to be ofi.—3id. p. 112. 'STATESWOMAN' 197 threatened, and Duphot was killed, by the Papal guard. Eugene Beauharnais made a sortie of vengeance. Napoleon utilised the manoeuvre to despatch General Berthier against the Pope's dominions. By the February of the ensuing year the Castle of St. Angelo was taken. On Ascension Day the Pope himself, in the Forum, heard the shouts of ' Viva la Republica ; abasso il Papa ! ' He did what other weak pontiffs have done before and since. He protested his ' divine right,' took his stand on it — and fled. Ousted from Siena by earthquake, he retired to the Florentine Certosa, where his rooms fronting that beautiful prospect may still be viewed. Hounded out once more, he was harried from pillar to post — from Tortona to Turin, from Briangon to Valence — in the citadel of which, old and dis- tressed, he breathed his last. At home Maria Carolina now reversed her policy of the knout. Vanni,^ the brutal Inquisitor of State, was deposed and banished, the diplomatic Castelcicala was given a free hand. All the captives were released. The Lazzaroni cheered till they were hoarse over the magnanimity of their rulers. And Acton, relieved from the burdens of bureaucracy, at last pressed Great Britain for a Mediterranean squadron. He and the Queen had both determined that their forced neutrality should be of short duration. If we would appreciate Emma's influence for England at Naples, the tone of his correspondence at this date should be compared with his indifference during the earlier portion of the preceding year. The Mediterranean expedition which Nelson was to lead to such decisive triumph was far more the fruit of Neapolitan importunities than of English foresight. Buonaparte had boasted that he would republicanise the two Sicilies also. No sooner was Acton apprised of the fact than he immediately invited Sir Gilbert Elliot, who happened to be visiting Naples, to meet him and * His barbarities to victims were summed up in the Latin sentence, 'Torqucri acriter adhibitis qualuor funiculis.' An adventurous Colonel Pisa, who was to fight against Cardinal Ruffo in 1799, and would have been then executed but for royal intervention, was his relative. — Cyrus Kedding's Raollcctions, vol. ii. P- 341- 198 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the Hamiltons.^ He again murmured against Lord Grenville's 'chicane.' He assured Sir Gilbert that his country had strained 'every sinew' 'to move and engage seventeen million Italians to defend themselves, their property, and their honour ' ; all had been vain for lack of extraneous assistance ; even their fleet had laboured to no purpose ; in his quaint English, their ' head-shipman had lost his head, if ever he had any.'^ The case was now desperate. All hinged on a sufficient Mediterranean squadron. 'Any English man-of-war, to the number of four at a time,' could still be provisioned in Sicilian or Neapolitan ports. Their compelled compact with France allowed no more. And at a moment when the French were disquieting Naples by insurgent fugitives from the Romagna and elsewhere,^ Napoleon's smooth speeches were, said Acton, mere dissimulation. A 'change of masters' might soon ensue.* By the April of 1798 Acton was still more explicit in his correspondence with Hamilton. A fresh incursion was now definitely menaced. Naples was being blackmailed. The Parisian Directors offered her immunity, but only if she would pay them an exorbitant sum ; otherwise she must be absorbed in the constellation of republics, while her monarch must join the debris of falling stars. Viennese support was little more than a forlorn hope for ravaged Italy. In the King's name he implored Hamilton to forward an English privateer to announce their desperate plight and urgent necessities to Lord St. Vincent. — ' Their Majesties observe the critical moment for all Europe, and the threatens {^sic\ of an invasion even in England. They are perfectly convinced of the generous and extensive exertions of the British nation at this moment, but a diversion in these points might operate advantage for the common war. Will Eng- land see all Italy, and even the two Sicilies, in the French hands with indifference?' The half-hearted Emperor had at last consented to think of assisting his relations, 1 Eg. MS. 2639, f. 369. - Hamilton smiles at Acton's English. — Eg. MS. 2640, f. 45. ■* Among these was Micheroux, who was to play such a fatal part in the Jacobin capitulation of 1799. ^ Eg. MS. 2640, ff, i, il, 15. 'STATESWOMAN' 199 though only should Naples be assailed ; this perhaps might 'hurry England.' Seventeen ships of the line would soon be ready ; there were seventy in Genoa, thirty at Civita Vecchia. These could carry ' perhaps 8000 men.' But the French at Toulon could convey 18,000. 'With the English expedition we shall be saved. This is my communication from their Majesties.'^ Hamilton's replies were bitterly cautious. ' We cannot, however,' he observed, 'avoid to expose that His Sicilian Majesty confides too much in His Britannic Majesty's Ministry's help.'- And all this time Emma is never from Maria Carolina's side ; writing to her, urging, praising, heartening, caressing the English. The Queen is all gratitude to her humble friend, whose enthusiasm is an asset of her hopes: — ' Vous en etes le maitre de mon coeur, ma chere miledy,' she writes in her bad and disjointed French ; ' ni pour mes amis, comme vous, ni pour mes opinions [je] ne change jamais.' She is 'impatient for news of the English squadron.'^ But she is still a wretched woman, disquieted by doubts and worn with care, as she may be viewed in the portraits of this period. She had deemed herself a pattern of duty, but had now woke up to the consciousness of being execrated by her victims ; while the loyal Lazzaroni, always her mislikers, visited each national calamity on her head. Gallo, Acton, Belmonte, Castel- cicala, Di Medici — all had been tried, and except Acton, who himself had wavered, all had been found wanting. It is the Nemesis of despots, even if enlightened, to rely suc- cessively on false supports, to fly by turns from betrayed trust to treachery once more trusted. Emma at all events would not fail her, and never did. 'You may read,' says Thackeray, ' Pompeii in some folks' faces.' Such a Pompeii- countenance must have been the Queen's. The English squadron was at last a fact. On March 29, 1 Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 45, 46, 48. " Eg. MS. 2640, i. 57, April 9. ^ Eg. MS. 1615, ff. 89, 69. Acton knew of it on May 19, ' S.ilurday morn- ing.' Grcnville had enjoined strict secrecy. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 63. On June lO he wrote, ' With the good Admiral Nelson at the head of them, we must hope the desired and long expected success.' 200 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON 1798, Nelson hoisted his flag as Rear- Admiral of the Blue on board the Vanguard. On April 10 he sailed on one of the most eventful voyages in history. And meanwhile Maria Carolina, with Emma under her wing, might be seen pacing the palace garden, and eagerly scanning the horizon from sunny Caserta for a glimpse of one white sail. Sister Anne stands and waits on her watch-tower, feverish for Selim's arrival, while anguished Fatima peers into Bluebeard's cupboard, horror-stricken at its gruesome medley of dismembered sovereigns — martyrs or tyrants — which you please. Lady Hamilton as Eui-HROsyxE. From a Mezzotint hy Hury after the original picture by C. Romney. CHAPTER VIII TRIUMPH 1798 Nelson was in chase of Buonaparte's fleet. Napoleon's Egyptian expedition was, perhaps, the great- est wonder in a course rife with them. He was not yet thirty ; he had been victorious by land, and had dictated terms at the gates of Vienna. In Italy, like Tarquin, he had knocked off the tallest heads first. Debt and jeal- ousy hampered him at home. It was the gambler's first throw, that rarest audacity. For years his far-sightedness had fastened on the Mediterranean ; and now that Spain was friends with France, he divined the moment for crush- ing Britain. But even then his schemes were far vaster than his contemporaries could comprehend. His plan was to obtain Eastern Empire, to reduce Syria, and, after recasting sheikhdoms in the dominion of the Pharaohs, possibly after subduing India, to dash back and conquer England. Italy was honeycombed with his republics. To Egypt P'rance should be suzerain, a democracy with vassals ; as for Great Britain, if she kept her King, it must be on worse terms than even Louis the Bourbon had once dared to prescribe to the Stuarts. This, too, was the first and only time when he, an unskilled mariner, was for a space in chief naval command. Most characteristic was it also of him — the encyclopaedist in action — to have remembered science in this enterprise against science's home of origin. That vast Armada of ships and frigates, that huge U Orient, whose very name was augury, those forty thousand men in transports, did not suffice. An array of savants, with all their apparatus, swelling the muster on board their vessel 201 202 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to no less than two thousand,^ accompanied the new man who was to make all things new. It was nigh a month after Nelson started when Napoleon sailed. Sudden as a flash of lightning, yet impenetrable as the cloud from which it darts, he veiled his movements and doubled in his course. It was on Saturday, June i6, that Hamilton first sighted Nelson's approach. The van of the small squadron of four- teen sail was visible as it neared Ischia from the westward and made for Capri.^ He at once took up his pen to send him the latest tidings of the armament which, eluding his pursuit, had now passed the Sicilian seaboard.^ The glad news of Nelson's arrival spread like wildfire. The French residents mocked and scowled. The people cheered. The solemn ministers smiled. The royal family, in the depths of dejection,* plucked up heart ; the Queen was in ^ Morrison MS. 317. Much light is cast on these savants, and on the whole Egyptian expedition, by Buonaparte's and his officers' letters, intercepted by Nelson, and published in translation by 'J. Wright' in 1798. The expedition itself was undertaken, despite treasuries drained already by the Italian campaign, and the rapacity of its now dominant pioneers, who lavished the State's last gold en route for Cairo, in bribing Malta. All Buonaparte's officers were bitterly disappointed, and murmured against their commander for betraying them, going back on his original pretext of pacification, and leaving them unpaid. The savants were to discover 'the real Egypt.' On July 6 Buonaparte wrote to the Directory, 'This country is anything but what travellers . . . represent it to be.' The Directory ' did not set much store by their savants ; they exported several head of them to Cayenne.' It was hoped that the plunder of Malta would reimburse some of the expense. The Directory s main object was to get rid of their Italian army. " Eg. MS. 264O, f. 69. 3 His letters both to Nelson and Lord St. Vincent (Morrison MS. 317, 318) were partly founded on Acton's communication of ' Sunday, June 10' (Eg. MS. 2640, f. 67), announcing that part of the French fleet was ' between Marittimo and the Favignana,' after being at Trapani, and was heading for Malta. Buonaparte's interference there changed the whole situation and precipitated the probability of an open breach between Naples and France. •• This has been made clear, I hope, in my previous chronicle. But, since it has been doubted, I subjoin a few references to Acton's correspondence alone (though the Queen's of this period is also most despairing), to show that Nelson's expression on June 17th of ' this suffering family' was a commonplace at the time. Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 53-56. ' We shall perish if such is our destiny,' etc., f. 67. f. 71: — 'Our critical circumstances' — isolated on the Continent—' our hopes and, indeed, all our expectations of help and assistance lay [j/c] on the British squadron,' etc. f. 72: 'Our consolation.' f. 75: 'Nelson's passage through Messina Straits,' 'a prodigious consolation.' 'We are undoubtedly undone,' etc. On sighting the fleet, the Queen styled Nelson ' Conservateur.'— Eg. MS. 1615, f. 95. And on June 20, as I shall shortly TRIUMPH 203 ecstasy.' But Gallo and the anti-English group were sus- picious and perplexed. They and the King still waited on Austria. On Spain they could no longer fawn. Nelson's instructions were to water and provide his fleet in any Mediterranean port, except in Sardinia,^ if necessary by arms. It was not that for the moment he needed refreshment for those scanty frigates, the want of which, he wrote afterwards, would be found graven on his heart. But he had a long and intricate enterprise before him. He was hunting a fox that would profit by every bend and crevice, so to speak, of the country. He could not track him without the certainty that, apart from the delays that force must entail, all his requirements, perhaps for two months, would be granted on mere demand. Even so early as June 12 he had requested definite answers from Hamilton as to what precise aid he could count upon^ from a pseudo-neutral power trifling over diplomatic pedantries with the slippery chancelleries of Vienna; while on that same day Hamilton had forwarded to Eden at Vienna a despatch from Grenville emphasising the ' necessity ^ as it was now regarded at home, for ensuring the ' free and unlimited^ admission of British ships into Sicilian harbours, and ' every species of provisions and supplies usually afforded by an ally.'* Hamilton had tried in vain to surmount an obstacle important alike to France, to the King, and to Austria. Nelson also knew too well the barrier set against compliance by the terms of the fatal Franco-Neapolitan pact of 1796. Not more than four frigates at once might be received into any harbour of Ferdinand's coasts. He knew that the Queen and her friends were in the slough of despond. He knew too — for notice, Hamilton adds a most significant and outspoken statement to a memo- randum for his despatch, cf. post, p. 212. But apart from these sidelights, the fact might certainly have been discerned from Lord St. Vincent's letter to ICmma of May 22, 1798 : 'The picture you draw of the lovely Queen of Naples and the Royal Family would rouse the indignation of the most unfeeling of the creation. ... I am bound — by my oath of chivalry — to protect all who are persecuted and distressed.' Cited by Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 117. ' Cf. her impatience evidenced in her letter just before. Eg. MS . 1615, f. 99. - Laughtnn's Letters atid Despatches, p. 136. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 119. ' Laughlon's Letters ant Despatches, p. 137. * Clarke and M 'Arthur, vol. ii. p. 263. 204 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the Hamiltons had been in continual correspondence — that Austria was once more shilly-shallying. While Naples was longing to break her neutrality, Austria, for the moment satisfied with shame, was now secretly negotiating, with all the long and tedious array of etiquette, preliminaries to a half- hearted arrangement. Even in deliberation she would, as we have seen, only succour Naples if Naples were attacked. Against this Napoleon had guarded : so far as concerned him and the present, Naples should be left in perilous peace. He was content with the seeds of revolution that he had stealthily sown. Even as he passed Trapani on his way to Malta, which already by the loth of June he had invested, and whose plunder he had promised to his troops, he pacified the Sicilians with unlimited reassurances of good- will.^ And Nelson knew well also that Maria Carolina and Emma chafed under the fetters of diplomacy and of treaty that shackled action. If only he could obtain some royal mandate for his purpose, either through them — for the Queen had rights in Council — or from Acton, rather than the King still swayed by Gallo, he felt convinced of success. Otherwise, should emergencies arise within the next few weeks, as arise they must, he would perforce hark back to Gibraltar ; ^ and in such a water-hunt of views and checks as he now contemplated, delay might spell failure, and failure his country's ruin. At about six o'clock by Neapolitan time,^ on a lovely June morning,* Captains Troubridge and Hardy ^ landed from the Mutine^ which, together with the Monarchy on which was Captain T. Carrol,^ lay anchored in the bay, leaving Nelson in the Vanguard with his fleet off Capri. 1 Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 67, 71. "^ Even so late as August 15, when Acton knew that Nelson had been pro- visioned for seven or eight weeks ' only,' he still contemplated this contingency. Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 89. ^ It is curious that the critics who quibble over the discrepancy between the earlier time alleged by Lady Hamilton fifteen years later in her ' Prince Regent's' memorial, and that given by the ship's log-book (allowing for the difference of log-British and London time), should never have thought of the difference in Neapolitan time. In the ' King's ' memorial no time is specified. ^ Sunday, June 17. The day of the week is mentioned in several of the letters. ^ Troubridge, though sent earlier from Civita Vecchia on the Culloden, landed together with Hardy. Cf. Morrison MS. 318. « Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. I. TRIUMPH 205 Troubridge, charged with important requests by Nelson, at once proceeded to the Embassy. Our interrupting critics have stubbornly disputed step by step Lady Hamilton's after allegations ; and even these, as will be shown, they seem to have misread ; nor have they noted her simpler account in her ' King's Memorial,' still less Nelson's repeated assurances about her * exclusive interposition ' to Rose, Pitt's favourable consideration. Canning's own acknowledgment, the neutrality at any rate of Grenville, and a statement by Lord Melville, afterwards to be mentioned.^ Emma and her husband were awakened by their early visitors, who included Hardy and, perhaps, Bowen. / Hamilton arose hurriedly, and took the officers off tr Acton's neighbouring house.^ Some kind of council was held, probably at the palace.^ In that case Gallo, as foreign minister, may well have been present.* Troubridge, as Nelson's mouthpiece, stated his requirements. Gallo, we know, was hesitating and hostile. The whole arrangement with the court of Vienna now lagging under his procrastina- tion, would be spoiled if Naples were prematurely to break with France, and an open breach must be certain if succour for the whole of Nelson's fleet were afforded at the Sicilian ports in contravention of the burdensome engagement with the French Directory ; while it would further be implied that the British fleet was at the Neapolitan service. Re- course to the King would not only be dangerous, but probably futile; the more so, since the French minister at Naples was now citizen Garat, a pedant, pamphleteer, and lecturer of the straitest sect among busybodying theorists. Such a man, Gallo would urge, must be the loudest in umbrage ' Cf. post, chap. XV. ; Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 261 et seq. ; Morrison M.S. 804. * Hardy, and perhaps Bowen (then staying with the Ambassador), seem to have been present at the council, as well as Troubridge. Cf. Acton's letter to Hamilton of June 22, Eg. MS. 2640, f. 73, where he speaks of the Sunday ' council' as including the ' British officers.'' ^ Ibid., 'The council held at the palace.' * On June 20, it was Gallo who answered the French minister's complaints. Cf. ibid. * On this very day Nelson told Ilaniilton, ' Troubridge will say everything I could put in a ream of paper.' Morrison MS. 319. Cf. also Eg. MS. 2640, f. 71, and 2635, f. 2S7. 206 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON at even the appearance of pro-British zeal.^ Acton could have rebutted these objections by observing that the ' order' need not be signed by Ferdinand, but merely informally by himself 'in the King's name'; as, in fact, a sort of roving * credential ' ; - that it could be so worded as to imply no breach of treaty but only the refreshment of four ships at a time ; that the governors of the ports might be separately instructed to offer a show of resistance if more were demanded of them ; ^ that Garat need never know what had transpired till the moment came when Austria had signed her pact with Naples, and France might be dared in the face of day ; Troubridge's reception could be (and was) represented as no more than a common civility which Acton paid not only to English visitors, but even to French officers.* All must be 'under the rose,'^ and thus far only could Nelson be obliged. To Nelson's further requisition for frigates a polite non possumus could be the only answer. Pending these delicate Austrian negotiations, and until an open rupture with France was possible with safety, Naples was in urgent need of a permanent fleet in the Mediterranean,® and this, quid pro quo, Nelson naturally would not bind himself to concede, though, so far as his instructions and the situation warranted, he was ready, even eager, to do so.'' This half-formal but scarcely effectual 'order' was obtained. There exists an original draft of Hamilton's official x&Q\t2\ ' Three days later Nelson complained that Garat was still allowed to inform the French of his plans, etc. Morrison MS. 321. - Hamilton's own words of it to Nelson. ' The letter Captain Troubridge and I got from General Acton I look upon as a sort oi credential,^ etc. Morrison MS. 322. Hamilton to Nelson, June 26, 1796. ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 318 (Hamilton to Lord St. Vincent) : 'Meantime every fOMc^a/f^ assistance will be given to the British fleet, on which the very existence of this monarchy depends at this moment.' — Cf. ibid. 327 (a copy). The original should precede, Eg. MS. 2640, f. 83, which, referring to the just-concluded defen- sive alliance with Austria opening the ports to the British squadron, continues : ' Our demands for the respective garrisons are but an excuse to give in case of a rupture, to show that we are, in a kind, forced to admit them above the fixed number.' Cf. also Acton's words to Hamilton, so late as August 2, about his 'just apprehensions' as to Vienna, and Hamilton's indorsement regarding 'seeming resistance,' Eg. MS. 2640, f. 83, and Hamilton's words as to 'throwing off the mask,' c\ie.A post, p. 216, note 5. * Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 73, where, on June 22, Acton tells Hamilton how, on June 20, Gallo ' desabused ' Garat, when perhaps a second council was held. * Nelson's expression in a later letter. " Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 71, 75. ' Morrison MS. 320. TRIUMPH 207 of what passed to Lord Grenville. One of its interlinea- tions Ms perhaps significant. He first omitted, and after- wards added that the order was in Acton's handwriting as well as in the King's name. Nelson had wanted a quick royal mandate. He received a ministerial order involving further instructions 2 and diplomatic delays. Moreover, five days after Troubridge's visit, Acton thanked Hamilton for his 'delicate and kind part' 'under all the circumstances.' ^ It was not such a plain-sailing affair as it seemed. 'We did more business in half an hour,' wrote Hamilton in a final despatch to the same minister, ' than we should have done in a week in the usual official way. Captain Troubridge went straight to the point. ... I prevailed upon General Acton to write himself an order in the name of His Sicilian Majesty, directed to the governors of every port in Sicily, to supply the King's ships with all sorts of provisions, and in case of an action to permit the British seamen, sick or wounded, to be landed and taken proper care of in their ports.' * The draft, however, contains a telling supplement. ' He expressed only a wish to get sight of Buonaparte and his army, " for," said he, " By God, we shall lick thein^' ' ^ Before Nelson's officers departed, they received also from Hamilton's hands Gallo's fatuous replies to their Admiral's questions of five days before.^ Troubridge was perforce ' satisfied,' ^ but within an hour ' Eg. MS. 2635, f. 287. - Eg. MS. f. 76. - Eg. MS. 2640, f. 73. ■• Sir William's desp.itch lo Lord Grenville, June 18, 1798. Cited from the P. R.O. by Professor Laughton in Colburn's United Service Magazine, May 1889. 5 Eg. MS. 2635, f. 289. ^ This new fact appears from yet another draft of Hamilton's despatch sold at Sotheby's, July 8, 1905, but it is also mentioned elsewhere. ' The word 'satisfied' occurs both in Hamilton's official letter to Lord St. Vincent of June 17 (Morrison MS. 318), and in Acton's to Hamilton of June 18 (Eg. MS. 2640, f. 71) ; the words in the former are 'perfectly satisfied.' The preceding account is the purport of the light cast on what Hamilton describes in his official letters by the Morrison MS. and Acton's letters to him of the day following and the 22nd. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 71, 72, 73, 75. In the first he acknowledges a communication from Hamilton of the night previous. They tend to show : (i) That Anglo-Neapolitan co-operation had been demanded at the palace. (2) That even Acton could not gain the grant of this, until the secret negotiations with Austria were concluded. (3) That Acton considered Buonaparte's design on Malta was a direct menace lo Naples — (in this view Nelson then agreed. Cf. Morrison MS. 319); and 2o8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON he was joyful.^ Something else, something informal, some- thing surprising had happened. The King was probably asleep. Emma had rushed to the Queen, for they both knew how little such a conclave would probably achieve ; and Gallo's attitude might well deter Acton from straight- forward compliance. Nelson might fancy this council's 'order' a quick passport to his desires. But they knew its formal flourishes to be most misleading. In the result, indeed, it proved of itself disappointing enough.^ Emma's own after-story is that she besought Maria Carolina, with tears and on bended knees, to exercise her prerogative and supplement the mandate by the promise of direct instruc- tions. From after events and from inveterate habit the dramatic scene is probable. As Pettigrew shows, in 1849 Hamilton wrote forthwith to Nelson, 'You will receive from Emma herself what will do the business and procure all your wants.' ^ One can see this impulsive woman clap- ping her hands for joy, and singing aloud with exultation. Within two hours Troubridge and Hardy had rowed back to the Mutine and rejoined their Admiral. Within a few hours at any rate Emma, throbbing with excitement, penned two hasty notes to Nelson himself, both included in her newly found correspondence of this year. Each — and they are brief — must be repeated here, for the second of them disposes of the version, hitherto {4) That the Malta affair must inevitably now lead to an open rupture with France. With regard to point (2), Acton's most important letter to Hamilton of June 25 (Eg. MS. 2640, f. 75) and of August I following (Morrison MS. 327) should also be compared. This letter was forwarded by him to Nelson (ibid. 328). The first contains this sentence : ' But you know the restriction. If even we should joyn immediately, we are not assured of a permanent fleet . . . but on two conditions or events which are not in our power to procure,' etc., and he tlien mentions the Austrian Treaty. ^ The expression in Hamilton's draft of his despatch is ' in high good humour.^ ^ Cf. especially ff. 83, 87, which show that so late as August 2 and 7 Acton still thought that Nelson's fleet wanted victualling. ^ Cf. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 612. Seeing that the suspected and Emma-prompted Harrison omits this altogether, and also that Pettigrew further on correctly alludes to the letter that I have discovered, and shall shortly mention as the one to which Nelson's hitherto disputed letter of June 17 was the immediate answer, I incline to believe that Pettigrew had seen the manuscript. As will appear, there are several of Emma's disputed assertions as to words used which can be now substantiated. t V H "^ J \ V '^ \ { \l \V x > ^ !w/' r ^ A !\ I V V r v\ V V ^ ^^\ >-. I Howcn X X H - TRIUMPH 209 accepted, that Nelson never received that from the Queen which his famous letter to Lady Hamilton represents him as 'kissing'; while the first suggests a likelihood that this thrilling day did not close before Emma had managed to see Nelson himself at Capri.^ Both these letters are scrawled in evident haste. [lythjime 1798.] ' My dear Admiral, — I write in a hurry as Captain T. Carrol ^ stays on Monarch. God bless you, and send you victorious, and that I may see you bring back Buonaparte with you. Fray send Captain Hardy out to us, for I shall have a fever with anxiety. The Queen desires me to say everything that 's kind, and bids me say with her whole heart and soul she wishes you victory. God bless you, my dear Sir. I will not say how glad I shall be to see you. Indeed I cannot describe to you my feelings on your being so near us. — Ever, Ever, dear Sir, Your affte. and gratefuU Emma Hamilton.' ^ But now comes a decisive epistle, the missing link, bear- ing in mind Nelson's disputed answer to it, which the critics have racked their brains to transfer to the following May — a date, by the by, historically most inapplicable.* Theory, however, must here yield to this piece of reality on a scrap of notepaper. The letter, written very hurriedly, is on similar paper and evidently of the same date as its predecessor : — ' Dear Sir, — I send you a letter I have received this moment from the Queen. Kiss it, and send it back by Bowen, as I am bound not to give any of her letters. — Ever your Emma.'^ ^ In her letter (o Nelson of September 8 of this year she beseeches him to 'rejoin them.' Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, fT. 3-6, and see the letter itself in the Appendix. - According to Byrne, Carrol was on the Syren in 1797-1799. 3 Add. MS. 34,989, f. I. Addressed 'Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson,' indorsed ' Lady Hamilton, 17th June 1798.' The indorsement leaves no doubt as to the date. ■* On 'May' (as the letter is misdated without question) 17, 1798, the Neapolitan royalties were 'suffering.' On May 17, 1799, they were almost assured of Nelson's fleet as their avengers at Naples, nor wasa 'battle' imminent. ^ Add. MS. 34,989, f. 3. Two more in this series are so signed. Cf. />osi, App., pp. 495, 500; and Hamilton, in June 1680, speaks of her to Nelson; cf. Morrison MS. 317. O 210 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Captain Bowen of the Transfer had brought Hamilton despatches from Lord St. Vincent just a week before, and was his guest until the 2nd of August subsequent.^ The fact that Emma begs for the letter's return indicates that it was one of importance, and might compromise the Queen, After the battle of the Nile Emma sent Nelson two of the Queen's ordinary letters about him, as a token of gratitude, and without any request for their redelivery.- This missive from the Queen seems to have been one promising Nelson some further document of direct in- structions to the governors of ports in event of future urgency. As will appear in the course of our chronicle, all the probabilities point to such a letter being in Nelson's possession afterwards at Syracuse on July 19-23, as a potent alternative if Acton's orders missed fire, and also as a pledge of instant commands to the governors, should its own efficacy prove unavailing. After-evidence points further to the probability of the King's entire ignorance of a transaction behind his back, and in the teeth of his prejudices. If the fleet was watered, he was to remain hoodwinked, and to imagine that Acton's guarded ' order ' in his name had proved efficacious. The immediate reply and pendant to this cheering com- ' Bowen acted as Lord St. Vincent's intermediary with Hamilton. This appears from Eg. MS. 2640, f. 67, where Acton, on June 10, 1798 (Sunday), thanks Hamilton for ' Bowen's news,' and from Morrison MS. 317, where on June 16, 1798, Hamilton writes to Nelson that he hopes the despatches sent by Lord St. Vincent by Bowen will reach him (which they did not, as Nelson arrived off Naples sooner than was anticipated) ; and cf. ibid. 32S, which mentions Bowen's departure August 2, 1798. On this very June 17 Hamilton tells Lord St. Vincent, * I look on my having detained Captain Bowen so long as a fortunate circumstance, as I am by it enabled to give intelligence,' etc., cf. ibid. 318. Bowen must not be confused with his better-known brother, who died in the attack of Teneriffe in 1797, and whose ' bag of doubloons ' Nelson forwarded home. He was the Bowen shortly to be promoted at Hamilton's request by Lord St. Vincent, and for whose preferment Earl Nelson was to press the Admiralty in vain after Nelson's death. He recommended him for the Ocean, cf. Add. MS. 34,992, f. 112. In 1801 Nelson specially requested Emma to tell him that he was wanted for the Boulogne Flotilla (Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 151). In later days he often visited Merton, and he stayed with the Boltons just before he died. Cf. post, chap. xv. '■* Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 3, September 8, 1798. The letter will be found in the first new series given in the Appendix to this volume. ^^^^ ^Vrv o-Yx^r*^ %^ oX *>rsj*i Vaa-7 C"*^ Vn Ov/» V'^y^ft VcAI^ ^^''^^^ '^'^"^ O-y-^ «-^ Vv<^ Mr^ vsr:;<:^ (?^o^ m wvMv. ^ VAKv ,KAw Wt Ov/W. i Ova. J iLSis^^^^^ ^% \>vW».^'o-?^^e.r^« \AX&ifv^ letter. ho... other v'yf.ii,w/K 7MA.I "I /'<■■■■' '(/-.lUaMMI .8(?t' .' '- '•'^ H3T! iJ t a V YvJ A ADMIRAL nelson's IMMEDIATE REPLY TO LADY HAMILTON'S LETTER OK JINE I7TH, 1 798. TRIUMPH 211 munication was Nelson's familiar and much-debated letter written an hour before he weighed anchor : — * My dear Lady Hamilton, — / have kissed the Queen's letter. Pray say I hope for the honor of kissing her hand when no fears will intervene, assure her Majesty that no person has her felicity more than myself at heart and that the sufferings of her family will be a Tower of Strength on the day of Battle, fear not the event, God is with us, God Bless you and Sir William, pray say I cannot stay to answer his letter.— Ever Yours faithfully, Horatio Nelson.' ^ On this (still visible in the British Museum) ^ Emma's after-indorsement runs, ' This letter I received after I had sent the Queen's letter for receiving our ships into their ports, for the Queen had decided to act in opposition to the King, who would not then break with France, and our Fleet must have gone down to Gibraltar to have watered, and the battle of the Nile would not have been fought, for the French fleet would have got back to Toulon.' She is reviewing the whole length of the transaction, the critical issues at Syracuse of next month on Nelson's first return from Egypt, the ultimate victory. She does the same in other parts of her two long memorials. The critics have twisted her statements into post-dating Nelson's momentous visit to the time when he returned from pursuit for supplies to Sicily and resailed equipped to Aboukir Bay.^ Emma's statement of the historical situation at this date in Naples ^ This letter is misdated in the hurry (as was sometimes the way with Nelson), I7lh May, 6 I'.M. It is admitted, of course, that on that day he w.as ofTCape Sicie, so that if applicable to 1798, it must be a slip of the pen for June 17. With regard to 'my dear,' etc., cf. Morrison MS. 317, where on the preceding day Hamilton mentions her .as 'Emma' to his 'dear Nelson' and ' brave friend,' and says she wishes him victory 'heart and soul.' - Eg. MS. 1614, f. I. ^ In her ' Addington ' memorial of 1803 [Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 131) she puts the matter quite clearly: — 'The lleet itself, I can truly say, could not have got into Sicily, but for what I was happily able to do with the Queen of Naples, and through her secret instructions so obtained.' The material wording of the familiar 'Prince Regent's' memorial runs : ' It was at this awful period in June 1798, about three days after the French fleet passed by for Malta {this is tnie], Sir William and myself were awaken'd at si.\- o'clock in the morning by Captain Trowbridge with a letter from Sir Horatio Nelson, tiien with his llccl off the bay near to Caprea, requesting that the .Ambassador would procure him permission to enter with his fleet into Naples or any of the 212 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON is verified up to the hilt by Acton's correspondence with Hamilton. A note has already refuted the assertion that at this moment the royal family were not in distress. To the ample manuscript authorities there included, may be here added the postscript to the draft for Hamilton's known despatch of June 17. 'This Court,' it runs, 'as you may perceive, is in great distress.'^ The word employed cor- responds to Nelson's ' sufferings.' I hope now to have proved that this long-questioned Nelson letter was, undoubtedly, the instant answer to Emma's own communication, for the first time here brought to light. The twin letters are at length reunited, and at Sicilian ports, to provision, water, etc., as otherwise he must run for Gibraltar, bein" in urgent want [i.e. if he should be in urgent wapiti, and that, conse- quently, he would be obliged to give over all further pursuit of the French fleet, which he missed at Egypt [i.e. which in the event he actually did miss\, on account of their having put in to Malta.' That this is Emma's real meaning is shown by the opening sentence in which she is quite aware that Buonaparte was en route for Malta when that happened which she describes. The wording of her King's memorial (here again ignored), which seems never to have been presented, is more clearly expressed and more ex- plicit:— 'That Your Majesty's Memorialist on a subsequent occasion, by means of the same confidential communication with that great and good woman, the Queen of Naples, had the unspeakable felicity of procuring a secret order for victualling and watering, at the port of Syracuse, the fleet of Your Most Gracious Majesty under the command of Admiral Nelson ; by which means that heroic man, the pride and glory of his King and country, was enabled to proceed the second time to Egypt {observe that she distinctly says the June arder enabled him to get his wants supplied afterwardsl with a promptitude and celerity which certainly hastened the glorious battle of the Nile, and occasioned his good and grateful heart to admit your humble Memorialist as well as the Queen of Naples to a participation in that important victory.' Her words speak for themselves to every unprejudiced mind. The wording of Nelson's codicil is : — ' Secondly, the British fleet under my command could never have returned a second time to Egypt had not Lady Hamilton's influence with the Queen of Naples caused letters to be wrote to the Governor of Syracuse, that he was to encourage the fleet to be supplied with every thing, should they put into any port in Sicily. We put into Syracuse, and received every supply ; went to Egypt and destroyed the French fleet. Could I have rewarded these services, I would not now call upon my country.' This supplies the nature of the ' Queen's letter ' — probably a promise to supply letters in case of the need which happened in July. Surely Nelson was well aware of the worth of Emma's assistance. ' Eg. MS. 2635, f. 267. TRIUMPH 213 least a nev/ complexion is placed on the received account. Emma in this crucial instance speaks bare truth. The critics, in this respect anyhow, have erred. From them she now claims, not generosity, but justice. I cannot but feel sure that the most eminent of her living detractors will now make her his tardy amends, and will honour Nelson, whose love for Emma has been begrudged as debasement, by admitting that what he claimed in his last codicil for the woman of his heart was neither ' infatuation ' nor falsehood, and that without her it might hardly have happened. Scarcely had Nelson put to sea when he at once re- sumed communication with the Hamiltons. He wishes the Neapolitans to depend upon him. If only supplies are forthcoming when his need presses, his fleet shall be their mainstay. He laments his lack of frigates, but ' thank God,' he adds, ' I am not apt to feel difficulties.' He confides to Lady Hamilton his hope to be 'presented' to her 'crowned with laurels or cypress.'^ He presses them to exert them- selves in procuring for him masts and stores. He depre- cates the diplomatic quibbles about ' co-operation,' while lagging Austria manceuvres, and after he himself has come in crisis to their assistance. He points out the peril from Napoleon at Malta, he repeats, ' Malta is the direct road to Sicily."' The two Sicilies are the key of the position. And, indeed, the catastrophe of Malta formed the dirge of all this latter end of June. The Queen was distracted at the royal and ministerial delays and punctilios. La Valette was in French hands ' without a shot,' the Maltese knights — ces coquins de Franqais — were dastards, and she could not pity them. She sent her 'dear, faithful' Emma the Austrian ciphers to copy under vows of secrecy : Emma will see how little sin- cerity exists in Vienna. Emma is indispensable. Emma has infused her whole being with Nelson. The Queen bade her shout and sing once more before the assembled throng, 'Hip, hip, hip! ' ' God save the King ! ' and ' God save Nelson ! ' in Mi.ss Cornelia Knight's additional stanza to the National ' Moirison MS. 320. These words poinl, I think, to their havini; iK^en used by her. Henceforward Nelson constantly uses poetical phrases in his letters, quoting also often from Shakespeare, though without any marks of quotation. - Morrison MS. \2\. 214 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Anthem. She harped on Malta, ' an irreparable loss,' and ' gallant Nelson, with his British fleet,' which she strained her mind's eye to follow past Cape Passaro.^ And above all, she publicly recognised Emma's initiative. She reminded her that the British deliverers should have all they wanted, and she appointed her as deputy to receive the Maltese petitioners for aid." Nor was Hamilton behindhand. He furnished Nelson with continual advices. He informed him how Napoleon had quitted ^ Malta garrisoned ; how Garat had insolently demanded supplies, and had been peremptorily refused. How the struggle was fast shaping itself into Anglo-Sicily against France and Spain. He sent him Captain Hope with Irish intelligence. He looked hourly for news of the French Armada's overthrow.* Lady Hamilton also continued her correspondence. She thanks him for his letter through Captain Bowen, which she has translated for the Queen, who ' prays for ' his ' honour and safety — victory, she is sure, you will have'; she 'sees and feels ' all Nelson's grounds for complaint, — so does Emma, who calls Garat ' an impudent, insolent dog.' ' I see plainly,' she adds with emphasis, ' The Court of Naples must declare luar, if they mean to save their country. But alas ! their First Minister [with sarcasm] Gallo is a frivolous, ignorant, self-conceited coxcomb, that thinks of nothing but his fine embroidered coat, ring and snuff-box ; and half Naples thinks him half a Frenchman ; and God knows, if one may judge of what he did in making the peace for the Emperor, he must either be very ignorant, or not attached to his masters or the Cause Commune. The Queen and Acton cannot bear him, and consequently he cannot have much power ; but still a First Minister, although he may be a minister of smoke, yet he has always something, at least enough to do mischief. The Jacobins have all been lately declared innocent, after suffering four years' imprisonment ; and I know, they all deserved to be hanged long ago ; and since Garat has been here, and through his insolent letters to Gallo, these pretty gentlemen, that had planned the death 1 Eg. MS. 1615, ff. 95, 100, 102, 103, 107. '^ Ibid. f. 105. '• June 19. * Morrison MS. 323. |[] TRIUMPH 215 of their Majesties, are to be let out in society again. In short, I am afraid, all is lost here ; and I am grieved to the heart for our dear, charming Queen, who deserves a better fate. ... I hope you will not quit the Mediterranean without taking us. . . . But yet, I trust in God and you, that we shall destroy those monsters before we go from hence. God bless you, my dear, dear sir.' ^ And meanwhile Nelson, in hot pursuit, scoured the Mediterranean — Malta, Candia, Alexandria, Syria — in vain. The commander of both fleet and army, with genius, youth, and Corsican strategy to back him, still baffled the daring ' sea-wolf,' as he always called him. Nelson lived * in hopes,' he never rested. But ' the Devil's children have the Devil's luck,' as he and Hamilton both assured each other. The 19th 2 of July saw him back at Syracuse in recoil for his last spring, and in the very need against which his foresight had forearmed him. He lacked both stores and water. He seemed as far from his goal as when he started. Let him speak for himself. Writing from Syracuse and in retrospect, he told Hamilton :'...! stretched over to the coast of Caramania ; where not speaking a vessel who could give me information, I became distressed for the kingdom of the two Sicilies ; and having gone a round of six hundred leagues, at this season of the year (with a single ship, with an expedition incredible), here I am, as ignorant of the situation of the enemy as I was twenty-seven days ago ! '^ Now was the time for the Queen's ' open sesame/ if both Acton's 'order' and her own 'letter' of promise failed to operate with expedition. That such a letter was in Nelson's pocket will be inferred from the subsequent narrative. While Nelson ncars the Syracusan harbour bar, once more the modern critics intercept our view, and must for a moment delay our story. They will not do so long, because one of the documents on which their controversy relies will ' 'June 30, 179S.' Nchon Letters, vol. i. p. iSi. This letter has escaped attention. - As regards a few of his ships only. He came into port on the 20th. ' July 20, 1798. Nelson Lrtters, vol. ii. p. 232 ; Nicholas ill., 46. 216 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON enable us to resume our thread. But three preliminaries must first be mentioned. It is most important to distinguish between the official and the private letters of Nelson and Hamilton — the former meant to be shown to others, the latter written for the recipient alone ; and, more especially, between these two distinct classes of correspondence, and those other half- private letters intended for Hamilton to show Acton in con- fidence, and yet hinting or suggesting more than the General was meant to gather from them. It has also escaped notice that for some time past a private correspondence had regularly passed between Nel- son and the Hamiltons.^ This is clear from a letter (soon to be quoted) of July 22 from Nelson to Lady Hamilton in the Morrison Collection, where he inquires after her plans for * coming down the Mediterranean ' with her husband to help him.^ Thirdly, so late as the first week in August, after Nelson's battle had been won, Acton was still ignorant that his ships had been adequately provisioned, and was arranging further measures for the purpose ; aware on August 15 of the provisions, he planned more.^ Let us glance at a little farce enacted with exquisite gravity by the Governor of Syracuse. It emerges from a document* addressed by him to Sir William Hamilton. A key to this is supplied by the fact that General Acton, days after handing the informal 'order,' had expressly cautioned Hamilton that, pending the as yet unsigned articles with Austria, all the governors of all Sicilian ports had been specially directed to make an ' ostensible opposi- tion' lest the French might be incensed into attack by any open breach of the stipulated Neapolitan neutrality.^ Above ^ Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 235. ' . . . Your letters for me are re- turned to Naples. WTiat a situation am I placed in ! . . .' These letters are non-extant. They were probably on Nelson's side, through the medium of Captain Hope, mentioned in Hamilton's official letter to Nelson of June 30th. —Morrison MS. 323. ^ Morrison MS. 325. ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 83, 87, 89. ■* Now in the P.R.O. It is dated July 22, 1798. ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 83 (Acton to Hamilton, August 2, 1789, with Hamil- ton's indorsement), Morrison MS. 327 (General Acton to Hamilton), August i, 1798. The substance of this necessity was again repeated officially by Hamilton to Grenville in a dry despatch recounting the occurrences. Hamilton to Grenville, TRIUMPH 217 all, it should be noted that this Governor's letter to the English Ambassador at Naples seems to distinguish between a royal despatch signed by Acton, and a royal letter m Nelson's possession. And it must be repeated that Sicily — well disposed towards Great Britain — was throughout jealous of Naples, and proud of its individual independence. The whole scene rises vividly before us. On the morning of Thursday the 19th 'several ships' were seen sailing in slow procession from the east. Gradually fourteen emerged from 'the distance.' As they became more distinct in the freshening east wind, the Governor ordered the castle flag to be hoisted, and the British flag was instantly flown in reply. The Governor next sent out his boat with the 'Captain of the Port ' and the ' Adjutant of the Town,' civilians charged with compliments and offers. Nelson, however, regardless of these ceremonies, profited by the wind to steer ' straight into the harbour.' The pompous Governor, shocked at such haste, forwarded a second boat with two military functionaries to repeat his compliments, and to acquaint the Admiral with what he had known and resented for weeks — the impediment of ' not more than four ships of war at a time.' But Nelson had anticipated these formal courtesies. His own boat promptly met the Gover- nor's with ' a royal letter ' purporting to contain royal instructions for the admission of the zvJiole squadron. This I take to have been the Queen's private letter, forwarded in pursuance of her promise to Emma, and holding the Governor harmless in disobeying the strict letter of the law. While, therefore, in pursuance of certainty, the entire squadron advanced to cross the bar, the British ' Under- Admiral ' ^ proceeded in the Governor's boat, and was received by him at Government House. There he delivered a further and a separate missive, 'a royal despatch^ written August 4, 1798. Cited from P.R.O. (Sicily, 14) by Professor Laughton, in Colhurn's United Sei-vice Magazine^ May 1889. Moreover, Hamilton's phrase, ' The whole mystery was, they could not throw off the mask," occurs in his draft for this despatch, sold at Sotheby's on July 8, 1905. ^ He means Troubricige, whom Nelson in a letter of this year declares to have been instrumental in getting the fleet watered. Cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 170. 2i8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON in the King's name, and signed by Acton — in fact, the irregular 'order' obtained on that memorable morning of June 17, and by no means expressly empowering the recep- tion of the whole fleet.^ The Governor, conforming to the prescribed comedy, feigned hesitation ; thereupon a letter from Nelson himself was shown — 'difficult to read,' and justifying the entire squadron's entrance. Hereupon the Governor, 'struck ' by what he must have known, and also by other reflections [the Queen's private order], reminds one of the old song, 'and saying he would ne'er consent, con- sented.' He affected to raise ' friendly protests,' while he enforced the King's directions to save appearances by spread- ing the ships over different regions and at various distances. He even hinted in confidence the 'propriety' of quitting the port as soon as possible, and of landing none but unarmed sailors, and even these under a promise to return so soon as the city gates were closed at sunset. On the following afternoon Nelson with his ' staff' paid their respects. The Governor grasped him warmly by the hand, but still main- tained his outward 'show of resistance.' There were, he said, royal orders, under present circumstances, forbidding him to return the call on shipboard. And the last sentence of his record perhaps best illustrates the whole comedy by solemnly informing Hamilton that the recital was only addressed to him for the official purpose of being shown to his Sicilian Majesty. Ferdinand was to be kept in the dark. He was ignorant of all that the Queen had dared through Emma's request. He was to believe that the stretch of international civility had been empowered by Acton's document alone, the document signed in his name. So much for outward semblance. Nelson's inner feelings at this most critical juncture supplement the story. ^ The Governor himself describes it as merely enjoining him to ' welcome and assist' the British squadron, not in its entirety, though 'going beyond what is usual, and mentioning many novel and unexpected possibilities by reason of his Majesty's goodwill and friendship towards the English nation.' His meaning is evident from a further sentence "•'... And altho' in the royal despatch it was not distinctly stalad nor openly implied that the entire squadron was to be admitted, still, etc' Time, however, was all-important. The style of the description of the order's purports, it should also be noted, is thoroughly Acton's. TRIUMPH 219 We have reached July the 2ist.i The fleet was not completely stocked and watered till the 23rd, Before that date the whole town rejoiced and fraternised with the British sailors: of sympathy at least there was no con- cealment, and — a real Sicilian trait — all the countryfolk immediately raised the price of their provisions. On July the 22nd Nelson forwarded two private letters, one to Sir William, the other to Lady Hamilton. They are both indignant and irritable at delay aggra- vated by intense disappointment. It was not only that he was still without news of the French. He had counted on the instant virtue of Acton's order, without the need of recourse to a secret charm. For Hamilton had been told only three weeks before by the General that, in pursuance of it, 'every proper order' for the British squadron 'had been already given in Sicily,' and * in the way mentioned here with the brave Captain Trou- bridge.'^ Nelson had therefore good reason to hope for prepared co-operation. He had been met by farcical routine ; and red-tape, even when most expected, always repelled and ruffled him. Nor so far had the Queen's letter of indemnity to the Governors been followed by the actual 'open sesame' which she had promised as a last resort. For disappointment concerning Acton's order he was prepared, but not for the failure of his hidden talisman. So far the charm had not worked ; a fresh letter from the Queen might still be required. ' I have heard so much said,' runs Nelson's first out- burst— which he entrusted to the Governor himself for transit — ' about the King of Naples' orders only to admit three or four of the ships . . . that I am astonished. I ^ It has been represented that already on the 20th Nelson was watering his * ships of the line,* compared with which he wrote to Hamilton he ' regarded not all the riches of the world.' His ij^^/a/ despatch to Lord St. Vincent of this day, however, says : ' We are watering and getting such refreshment as the place affords.' This I take as implying that the process was very slow, for he immediately adds ' and shall get to sea by the 25th ' (cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 144). In the event he got to sea t-ivo days earlier. He could not, of course, mention the Queen's name. 0\\ July 20, Nelson tells Hamilton, 'In about six- days I shall sail from hence.' Cf. Nelson Lettcis, ii. p. 234. '^ Eg. MS. 2640, f. 76, a letter hitherto unpublished. On August 2, Acton, again protesti ng to Hamilton that the obstacle was the Austrian treaty, adds, 'The Governor had his .secret orders.' Eg. MS. 2640, f. 8j. 220 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON understood that private orders at least would have been given for our free admission. . . . Our treatment is scandalous for a great nation to put up with : and the King's flag is insulted at every friendly port we look at.'^ The second — to Lady Hamilton — is almost cool in iron- ical displeasure, a coolness betokening how unexpectedly his cherished hopes had been belied : — ' My dear Madam,— I am so hurt at the treatment we received from the power we came to assist and fight for, that I am hardly in a situation to write a letter to an elegant body : ^ therefore you must on this occasion forgive my want of those attentions which I am ever anxious to shew you. / wish to know yo7ir and Sir William^ s plans for coming down the Mediterranean^ for if we are to be kicked at every port of the Sicilian dominions, the sooner we are gone, the better. Good God ! how sensibly I feel our treatment, I have only to pray that I may find the French and throw all my vengeance on them.'* The omission in these lines of any specific mention either of the Queen or her letter, so far from being singular, is exactly what was to be expected. She always stipulated in such matters that her name should never be breathed, nor her position jeopardised with the King, and in this instance Acton also had to be kept in the dark.^ It will be remembered also that Emma's letter inclosing the Queen's promise to Nelson expressly stated that she was 'bound not to give any of her letters,' and, indeed, claimed its instant return. But meanwhile, on this very 22nd of July, a sudden change came over Nelson's tone ; still more so, on the following day before he weighed anchor. Melancholy and annoyance gave way to delight. Something must have ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 238. Nicolas, iii. 47. Harrison, vol. ii. p. 255. - The word in other transcripts is usually given ' Lady,' but this comes from the original m the Morrison MS., 325. " It is patent, as before noticed, that such a plan must have been privately mooted — probably in case of the Queen's missive failing; to operate at once. ■* These two letters were forwarded by Sir William Hamilton to Lord Grenville. Cf. Sir W. H.'s indorsement on copies of them sold at Sotheby's in May of this year (1905), v. the catalogue. One of them is in Morrison MS. 326. ' Both his earlier and his later communications show a complete ignorance even of the Queen's letter of June 17. For his later communications, cf. Morrison MS. 327. TRIUMPH 221 intervened to alter the face of affairs, something with which Nelson's temper accorded, and that something was certainly not any sight of the French fleet.^ Delay had been removed. Shortly after these two epistles to the Hamiltons Nelson further penned his short but memorable ' Arethusa' letter to them. Both Sir Harris Nicolas, and Professor Laughton following him, have denied the authenticity of this letter on the internal evidence of its style. They say that Nelson could never have used such a classical or poetical phrase as ' surely watering by the fountain of Arethusa.' But in the first place it is not, in Syracuse, poetical or classical, as every traveller is aware. Each Syracusan street-boy to this day calls the spring by the sea, with its rim of Egyptian cotton- plants, ' the fountain of Arethusa.' And in the second, if it were, it would be in accordance with many of Nelson's phrases caught from the Hamiltons. Professor Laughton has, I believe, gone so far as even to doubt that Hamilton about this period could address his friend as 'My dear Nelson. "- He is mistaken. Writing to Nelson a month previously, Sir William ends with ' All our present dependance is in you, nty dear Nelson, and I am convinced that what is in the power of mortal man, you will do.'-' The 'Arethusa' letter springs, it is true, from the sus- pected source of the Life of Nelson by the hireling Harrison — that same Harrison who, perhaps, was one of those to embitter the darkening days and fortunes of Lady Hamilton, his benefactress. But it is sanctioned by Pcttigrew, who, as a collector par excellence of Nelson autographs, was, on questions of style, an expert of tried judgment; and it will be noticed with interest that 'the laurel or cypress' passage (itself both poetical and classical) forms a feature also of his indisputable ' private ' letter to Hamilton * already noticed, and following im- ' This chantje was noticed, without the fuller lights now thrown on it, by liie Edinburgh Reviewer of October l886. '■^ He takes the ' My dear Sir ' of their official correspondence as conclusive. ' Morrison MS. 322, June 26, 1798. Cf. also ante, p. 211 note i. Cf. also Morrison MS. 328 (August i), ' My dear friend.' * Morrison MS. 320. It is dated ' Vanguard at sea, June iS, 1798.' It concludes : ' Pray present my best respects to Lady Hamilton. Tell her I hope to be presented to her crowned with laurel or cypress. But God is good, and to Him do I commit myself and our cause.' This is another instance of the way in which Nelson's letters explain each other. 222 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON mediately on his authentic answer to Lady Hamilton's newly found note of June 17 : — 'My dear Friends, — Thanks to your exertions, we have victualled and watered : and surely watering at the Fountain of Arethusa we must have victory. We shall sail with the first breeze, and be assured I will return either crowned with laurel, or covered with cypress.' ^ The * first breeze ' did not rise until the day following ; and even if the ' Arethusa' letter were a fabrication, which I can see no valid reason for supposing,^ we are able to dispense with its witness to Nelson's sudden relief of mood. He was now enabled to start a full two days earlier than he had hoped,^ and on the 23rd, before departing, he wrote yet again to his dear friends in joyful gratitude, and in phrases implying that the long-deferred 'private orders' had arrived, though the evidently guarded wording provides, as so often, against its being shown to General Acton.* This letter has never been doubted.^ 'The fleet is unmoored, and the moment the wind comes off the land shall go out of this delightful harbour, where our present wants have been amply supplied, and where every attention has been paid to us ; but I have been tormented by no private orders being given to the Governor for our admission. I have only to hope that I shall still find the French fleet, and be able to get at them. . . . No frigates ! ' Even a fortnight later Acton still excuses him- self to Hamilton.^ Assuredly throughout these quick transitions the under- tone of Emma and the Queen is audible. Nelson knew what had really happened ; his commentators are left to guess the truth from disputed shreds of correspondence. Refitted and reheartened, Nelson, who, as ever, had long ^ Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 127. Harrison, vol. ii. p. 256. He terms it ^ s. secret epistle.' - It should be marked that the mention of the breeze tallies with that in the letter next cited. ''* Cf. ante, p. 219, note I. * That Acton was kept in ignorance is likely from the fact that his own corre- spondence with Hamilton dwells mainly on Nelson's letters of anger and ex- postulation, and, even when at last he knows of his satisfied departure, plans additional aid. ^ It has been quoted incessantly, and it appears both in the Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 238, and in Morrison MS. 326. « Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 83, 87. TRIUMPH 223 been rehearsing his plans to his officers, hastened with his fleet to Aboukir Bay. There is no need to recount that memorable struggle of the ist of August, which lasted over twenty-four hours ^ — the daring strategy of a master- pilot, the giant U Orient blazing with colours already struck, and exploded under a sullen sky torn with livid lightning, the terrific thunderstorm interrupting the death-throes of the battle, the complete triumph of an encounter which de- livered England from France, and nerved a revived Europe against her. Villeneuve had been outwitted ; Brueys was dead ; so was Ducheyla. Even Napoleon's papers had been captured. Nelson stands out after the turmoil, once more battered, once again far more zealous for the fame of his officers than his own, yet furious at the escape of the only two French frigates that avoided practical annihilation. Never was there a supreme naval encounter that exercised such a moral effect, and so defeated both the foe and antici- pation. He was acclaimed the 'saviour' both of Britain and the Continent. And his trust in the Hamiltons, his unshakable belief in Emma, were at once evinced by his giving them the earliest intelligence of what set all Europe tingling. Emma's ears and her husband's were the very first to hear it.- The French had vaunted that Buonaparte would erase Britain from the map. In their desperation they still vowed to burn her fleet.^ Their insolence on Garat's lips had resounded in the streets and on the very house-tops of Naples. It was not long before that same Garat was to be curtly dismissed, before not a ' French dog' dared 'show his face,' before at the opera ' not a French cockade was to be seen';* before the Queen, half-mad for joy, addressed an English letter to the British sailors, doubtless with her Emma's aid, sent them casks of wine incognita^ and presented ' Accounts are given by French eye-witnesses in the volume of intercepted Letters from Egypt, cited in a previous note. Tallien writes that he and others viewed it 'placed on an eminence which overloolvcd the sea,' p. l8l. - Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 4. It was through Captains Hoslc and L'apel. Nelson letters, vol. ii. p. 240. ^ Cf. the Queen of Naples' letter to Emma, cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. P- 159. ■• Cf. Captain Iloste's contemporary account in Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 151. Hamilton had urged Garat's dismissal in June. Cf. Morrison MS. 322. 224 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hoste with a diamond ring,^ before Britain and Naples had struck up a close alliance against the common foe. The world was a changed world from that of a week before. History had been made and was making. On Nelson's life, to quote Lord St. Vincent's words, hung the fate of the remaining Governments in Europe, 'whose system has not been deranged by these devils.' ^ But for him Britain might have been France, and the Mediterranean a French lake. To the end of time the Nile would rank with Marathon, with Actium, with Blenheim. Nelson had entered the Pantheon of fame, he had embodied his country, he was Great Britain. He belonged to Time no longer. Emma's heart leaped, as she flew exulting with the first breath of victory to the Queen. So early as September the 3rd she had heard the triumph of which ministers and potentates were ignorant ; she, the poor Cheshire girl, the * Lancashire Witch,' whose dawn of life had been smirched and sullied ; she, the elcve of lecturing and hectoring Greville, the wife of an ambassador whose lethargy she had stirred to purpose ; she, the admired of artists, the Queen's comrade. Was anything impossible to youth and beauty, and energy and charm ? It had proved the same of old with those classical freed women — Epicharis, staunch amid false knights and senators ; and Panthea, perhaps Emma's own prototype, whose giftedness and ' chiselled ' beauty Lucian has extolled. Had she not from the first fed her inordinate fancy with grandiose reveries of achieve- ment? Had she not burst her leading-strings? More than all, had not Nelson, already in August, asked her to welcome 'the remains of Horatio'?^ And now, in this universal moment, she had both part and lot. Was it wonderful that, throbbing in every vein, she swooned* to the ground * For these and ensuing touches, cf. the new series of Emma's letters of 1798 to Nelson, transcribed in the Appendix. '•^ Nelson Letters , vol. i. p. 219. ^ Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 140. The letter recommended Captain Capel, the bearer of his despatches, and Captain Hoste, ' who to the gentlest manners joins undaunted courage.' He says: 'You and Sir William have spoiled me. ... I trust my mutilations will not cause me to be less welcome. They are the marks of honour. ' * Her own account in these letters is borne out by Nelson's letter to his wife TRIUMPH 225 and bruised her side with Nelson's letter in her hand ? We have only to read the series of her correspondence at this date with Nelson, to realise her intoxication of rapture. But there was more than this. It often happens that when glowing and inflammable natures, such as hers and Nelson's, have dreamed united visions, the mere fulfilment links them irrevocably together. Mutual hope and mutual faith refuse to be sundered. The hero creates his heroine, the heroine worships her maker, who has transformed her in her own eyes as well as his. It is the old romance of Pygmalion and Galatea. He places her on a pedestal and in a shrine. Henceforth for Nelson, however misguided in outward 'fact,' Emma stands out adorable as Britannia. * She and the French fleet ' are his all in all.^ His ecstasies in her honour spring from his firm conviction that but for her that mighty blow might never have been struck, nor Buonaparte crushed. Emma, for him, is England. He returns to her crowned not with ' cypress,' but laurels ever green. And she has plucked some of them for his wreath. He acknowledges that his was the first approach. As he wrote to her not three years later in a passage now first brought to light, ' I want not to conquer any heart, if that which I have conquered is happy in its lot : I am confident. for the Conqueror is beco^ne the Conquered! ^ And once more, with regard to Emma herself. She had never yet been free in her affections. Her devotion to Greville, her attachment to her husband, had grown up out of loyal gratitude, not from spontaneous choice, and the contrast first presented itself to her, not as an untutored girl, but as a skilled woman of the world. Sir William was now sixty-eight, Nelson just on forty — ^ I'cige critique', as the French term it. She firmly believed that she had helped his heroism to triumph ; he as firmly, that his battle on his arrival on the 22nd. ' II was imprudently told Lady Hamilton,' he says, 'in a moment, and the effect was like a shot; she fell apparently dead, and is not yet perfectly recovered from severe bruises.' Cited by I'ettigrew, vol. i. p. 150. ' In one of his later letters he says he wanted to ' hug them both.' ■■^ Add. MS. 34,274 G. (Nelson to Lady Hamilton), '.9. George o^ Rostock, May 24, 1801,' a new and unpublished letter. P 226 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON had been half won through her aid. Both were susceptible.^ Both despised the crowd from which in character and cir- cumstances they stood apart. Emma's morality had been largely one of discretion. Nelson's was one of religion. If Nelson came to persuade himself that she was born to be his wife in the sight of God — and all his after expressions to her prove it — it would not be strange if such a woman, still beautiful, in a sybarite atmosphere where she was held up as a paragon, should throw discretion to the winds of chance. It was after some such manner that these problems of heart and temperament were already shaping them- selves. Consult the first among those jubilant letters, a few excerpts from which have been quoted in the second chapter. They eclipse the very transports of the Queen, ' mad with joy,' and hysterically embracing all around her, whose own letter^ of that memorable Monday evening fully bears out Emma's account in these outpourings. She would rather have been a ' powder-monkey in that great Victory than an Emperor out of it.' Iler self-elation is all for Nelson. Posterity ought to worship the deliverer in every form and under every title. His statue should be ' of pure gold.' Her song is ' See the Conquering Hero Comes,' her strain is ' Rule Britannia.' Her gifts of voice and rhapsody are dedicated to these. For these she hymns the general joy, while the illuminations of her windows reflect the glow of her bosom. Nelson, Britain * Lord St. Vincent, writing to her in the following October, says : ' Pray do not let your fascinating Neapolitan dames approach too near him, for he is made of flesh and blood, and cannot resist their temptations.' — Nelson Letters^ vol. i. p. 219. '^ Ibid. Maria Carolina says that she lives again in her eternal gratitude to Nelson and to Emma. If ever Nelson's portrait be painted, it must be for her room. He is their hero and that of his ' great, brave, magnanimous nation. ' She embraces her children, Emma, all that belongs to her. She longs to see Nelson again and surround him with her family. Emma's endorsement is : ' Reed. Monday evening, Sept. 3, 1798, the happy day we reed, the joyful! news of the great Victory over the infernal French by the brave, gallant Nelson.' And cf. her letter to Circello, Ambassador in London, cited by Harrison, vol. i. p. 324, in which she repeats the domestic scene, and avows that such is the 'prodigy' of the triumph, that she almost 'questions its reality.' That scene is also reproduced ■J'crhatii/i from our new letters by Nelson him- self in communications to his wife. TRIUMPH 227 in excelsis, down with the execrable Jacobins, a fig for foreign dictation — these are her refrains. Even her 'shawl is in blue with gold anchors all over' ; her 'earrings all Nelson anchors ' ; she wears a bandeau round her fore- head with the words 'Nelson and Victory.' ^ Her 'head will not permit' her to tell 'half of the rejoicing.' 'The Neapolitans are mad, and if he was here now he would be killed with kindness.' How can she ' begin ' to her ' dear, dear Sir.' Since the Monday when the tidings had been specially conveyed to her,^ she has been ' delirious with joy ' and has ' a fever caused by agitation and pleasure.' She fell fainting and hurt herself at the news. ' God, what a Victory ! Never, never has there been anything half so glorious, so complete.' She would ' feel it a glory to die in such a cause.' ' No, I would not like to die till I see and embrace the Victor of the Nile.' The care of the navy now engrosses her. There is nothing she will not do for any fellow-worker with the prince of men. Captain Hoste, her guest from September i, never forgot her tender kindness.^ She begged and procured from Lord St. Vincent Captain Bowen's promotion to the command of UAquilon. Directly Nelson had cut short his brief stay of convalescence almost before the plaudits had died away, she sat down to write to the hero's wife,* as she was to do again later in December. She tells her how Nelson is adored by King and Queen and people, ' as if he had been their brother'; how delighted they are with the stepson. She sends her Miss Knight's 'ode.' She enumerates with pride the royal presents ; the sultan's aigrette and pelisse, which she 'tastes' and 'touches.'^ She resents the inadequacy of his Government's acknowledgment — ' Hang them, /say ! ' Both she and Hamilton were soon, in Nelson's words to his wife," 'seriously ill, first from anxiety and then from joy.' ^ Cf. Captain Hoste's accounl in the letter cited by I'ettigrew, vol. i. p. 151. ' This date is further verified by her endorsement on the Queen's long letter of rejoicing. Eg. MS. 1615, f. iii. •• Cf. his letter cited Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 150, and ante, p. 224. * This is the letter reported by Pettigrew as missing (vol. i. p. 150) but now found. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 8. * This Nelson was to bcqucalJi to her by a codicil of March 1801. Cf. Mor- rison MS. 548. '' Cf. Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 150. 228 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON But now she is 'preparing his apartments against he comes.' On September 22 the Vanguard anchored in the bay, and he came. The King and Queen had prepared a gorgeous ovation. It was midsummer weather, and a cloudless sky. No sooner was Nelson's small contingent descried off the rock of Tiberius at Capri, than the royal yacht, commanded by Caracciolo, draped with emblems and covered with spangled awnings, advanced three leagues out to meet him. On deck the music of Paisiello and of Cimarosa — at last pardoned for composing a republican ode — resounded over the glassy waters, while a whole 'serenata' of smaller craft followed in its wake and swelled the chorus. All the flower of the court, including the Hamiltons, was on board, where stood the King and the melancholy bride of the heir-apparent, Princess Clementina. The Queen, herself unwell, stayed at home and sent her grateful homage through Emma.^ As the procession started from the quay, citizen Garat, foiled and sullen, mewed in his palace with drawn blinds, caught from afar the strains of triumph, and vowed revenge.^ As the cortege neared the Vanguard, both the Hamiltons, worn with fatigue and excitement,^ and the royal party, greeted him. The picture of their meeting is familiar. It has been painted in Nelson's own words to his wife : — ' Alongside came my honoured friends : the scene in the boat was terribly affecting. Up flew her Ladyship, and exclaiming, " O God ! Is it possible ? " she fell into my arm more dead than alive. Tears, however, soon set matters to rights ; when alongside came the King. The scene was in its way as interesting. He took me by the hand, calling me his " Deliverer and Preserver," with every other expression of kindness. In short, all Naples calls me ''Nostra Liberatore!' My greeting from the lower classes was truly affecting. I hope some day to have the pleasure of introducing you to Lady Hamilton ; she is one of the ' Eg. MS. 161S, f. 113. '■^ Dumas' Storia de' Borboni, vol. ii. p. 228 ; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 149. ^ Sir William once more became ill and went to Castellamarc to recruit ; and Lady Hamilton, who would not give in, was also unwell. Cf. Eg. MS. 1615, ff. 45. 47- TRIUMPH 229 very best women in this world, she is an honour to her sex. Her kindness, with Sir WiHiam's to me, is more than I can express. I am in their house, and I may now tell you it required all the kindness of my friends to set me up. Lady Hamilton intends writing to you.^ God bless you ! ' - Little did Nelson yet reck of the ironies of the future. In this very letter he uses the warmest expressions about his wife that had as yet appeared in any of his letters.^ Had he pursued his first intention of proceeding from Egypt to Syracuse, how much, besides Naples, might have been avoided ! Was he even now face to face with a passionate conflict? During the twenty-three days* that Nelson remained ashore, much happened besides rejoicing, and much had to be done. Not only did Nelson's wound (like his battered ships) require instant attention, but, as constantly happened with him, the protracted strain of nervous effort was fol- lowed by a severe fever. Lady Hamilton and her mother tended him ; a brief visit with the Hamiltons to Castella- mare, where Troubridge was refitting the maimed vessels, and a diet of ' asses' milk ' did much to mend his general health.^ Nor was it to him alone that Emma, herself ' She did twice before Ocluber 3, both on the Queen's behalf and her own. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 8 (transcribed in the Appendix). She wrote again im- mediately on their return to England (see post, chap. .\i.), and yet Lady Nelson recorded that she had received but a single letter from Emma. - Cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 150. ^ Speaking of how the Hamiltons' friendship had touched him, he asks: ' What must it be to my dearest wife, my friend, my everything which is most dear to me in this world?' She had nursed him after the loss of his arm at Teneriffe. Immediately after the Nile battle he wrote to her of his pride in being his father's son and her husband. •• Nelson left for Malta on October 16. The ()ueen's letter to Emma of October 15 (given by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 160) must be misdated. On October 16 Nelson himself wrote a parting note to Emma dated ' Naples, October 16, 1798.' ' Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 8; Eg. MS. 1615, ff. 63, 117; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 187 ; Laughton's Despatches, p. 167. — (The Queen's inquiries after Nelson's health.) P. 167. — (Nelson's letter to Lord St. Vincent of September 20, in which he says of his fever, 'For eighteen hours my life was thought to be past hope.') P. 173. — (Letter to Duckworth, December 6, 1798. * My health, at the best indifferent, has not mended lately.') 230 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ailing, ministered. Sir William was exhausted. The Queen was ill and miserable under the troubles gathering both at Malta and in the council-chamber ; Captain Ball also needed her care, which he requited with an enthusiastic letter of thanks to 'the best friend and patroness of the British Navy' ; Troubridge, too, was far from well at Cas- tellamare ; many were in hospital. But Lady Hamilton owned the strength of highly-strung natures — the strength of spurts ; and she found time and energy for all her tasks. These good offices are here mentioned, and many more remain for mention subsequently, because, in the future, after the fatal dividing line of her triumphal progress to Vienna with the Queen, her husband, and Nelson, they were forgotten. She was to estrange some of her old admirers, who inveighed against her behind her back not only as ill- bred, but as artful. Beckford, for instance, who had hitherto praised her highly, became spiteful in defamation on her second visit to Fonthill in i8oi;^ Miss Knight, her firm ally at this moment, became her declared enemy. Trou- bridge (the baker's son, beloved and promoted by Nelson), who throughout had supported her, grew obstinate in antagonism both to her and him ; while the seemly Elliots were shocked at her loudness and scorn of convenances. Even the Queen's ardour cooled ; and the English official world began to look askance at the trio, and to make merry over Samson and Delilah. Nelson's birthday- gave full scope for a colossal demon- stration at the English Embassy. Emma's huge assembly, where royalty and all the cream of society presided, was hardly an enjoyment for the worn conqueror. A ' rostral column ' of the classical pattern, with inscriptions celebrat- ing his achievements, had been erected in the gay garden Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 151. — (Nelson's letter to Lord St. Vincent of Sep- tember 30.) P. 163.— (Lord St. Vincent's letter of thanks to Lady Hamilton for her care of Nelson's reviving health.) I quote these authorities, and could quote more, because Nelson's critical state of health has been doubted. ' Cf. Cyrus Redding's Fifty Years of My Lije. Lord Ronald Gower's most interesting article on some rare portraits of her in the Anglo-Saxon Review of September igcx), also touches on this point. * September 29. TRIUMPH 231 festooned with lamps, and alive with music. The artistic Miss Cornelia Knight (with her mother, a refugee from the terrors of war at Rome) added one more ode to the foreign thousands, and made a sketch of the scene.^ The festivity was chequered by Josiah Nisbet, Nelson's scapegrace but petted stepson, who brawled with him in his cups, until Troubridge parted them, and ended the indecent scuffle. That this arose from his habits, and not of design, is shown by Emma's affectionate references to him in her letter ^ to his mother only four days afterwards, which will be found in the Appendix.-^ Nelson was dispirited, and disgusted not only with the ' fiddlers ' and loose dames of the court, but with its finicking /£/// maitre, Gallo, the foreign minister, all airs and pouncet ; so afraid lest the wind should step between him and his gentility, that, solemn over trifles, he persist- ently dallied with the grave issues now at stake. The halting Acton himself proved energetic mainly in profes- sions,* though by the end of October Emma had won him also to their side.'' Not only had the ' Grand Knights ' of Malta, Honipesch the master, and Wittig, shown the white feather at Valetta, and left the French practically masters of the field, but in the Romagna and in Tuscany the enemy was daily gaining ground. Moreover, while the Queen was reassured as to the goodwill of the middle class and the Lazzaroni, she now realised, as may be gathered from her letters, that the various factions of the nobles were — from separate motives — a nest of perfidy. Her husband trounced her as the cause of his woes, and despite his enthusiasm for the ' hero,' he remained in the Anglophobe party's clutches. The delaying Gallo was averse to open hostilities until Austria had engaged in offensive alliance, 1 Emma was never jealous of her talent. Sending one of Cornelia's odes in October to Nelson, she says, ' It is very well written, but Miss K. is very clever in everything she undertakes.' — Add. MS. 34)989, f. 8. 2 Add. MS. 34,989, f. 8 ; and of. in the November following the reference in ff. 30-31. - The best account of this festivity is by the Neapolitan Michel Torcia, whose manuscript was sold at Sotheby's on May 17, 1905. * Nelson to Hamilton, Oct. 27, 179S. Cf. Laughton's Z)«>/a/tA<'J, p. 171. * Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 18-24. 'Am trcs bien with Acton,' etc. 232 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON for the compact (which had been signed in July)^ only promised Austrian aid in the event of Naples itself being attacked. Russia had declared, the Porte was on the verge of declaring, war against the French Republic. The pre- ceding May had seen yet another treaty between both these powers and Naples, binding the latter to furnish twelve ships and four hundred men for the coalition. Yet the Emperor, son-in-law to the Neapolitan Bourbons, still waited, and on him the King of Naples waited also, much more concerned with the impending birth of a grandchild who might inherit the throne, than with the portents of affairs. His disposition shunned reality, notwithstanding the fact, however, that he had sanctioned the summons of General Mack from Vienna to command his forces. And, added to all these manifold preoccupations, Lady Spencer, who had acclaimed Nelson's triumph with ' Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah,' the wife of the first Lord of the British Admiralty, was now at Naples, and constantly with the Hamiltons and Nelson. From late September to early October Nelson and Emma were in frequent conference. The French had been attempt- ing in Ireland what they had succeeded in doing at Naples : their complots with rebellion threatened all that was established. He divined the situation in its European bearings at a glance. She knew every twist and turn of the Neapolitan road, with all its buffoons, adventurers, and highwaymen ; the tact of quick experience was hers. He, the masculine genius, created. She. the feminine, was receptive, interpre- tative. And, whatever may be urged or moralised, the human fact remains that she was a woman after his own heart, and he a man after hers. He was the first unselfish man who had as yet been closely drawn towards her. However unlike in upbringing, in environment, in stand- ing— above all, in things of the spirit, in passionate energy, in courage, in romance, in ' sensibility ' ^ and enthusiasm they were affinities. ^ July l6. Hamilton's letter announcing it to Eden as 'old ties restored ' may be found in Egerton MS. 2638, f. 149. " Cf. the striking passage quoted attte^ p. 4 note i. TRIUMPH 233 The result of these consultations is shown by the long draft of a letter outlining a policy,^ which Nelson drew up as a lever for Emma herself to force the court into decision, and which formed the basis of a shorter letter that has been published.^ He emphasised 'the anxiety which you and Sir William have always had for the happiness and welfare of their Sicilian Majesties.' He pointed out that the mass of the Neapolitans were loyally eager to try conclusions with France ; that Naples was her natural ' plunder,' but that the ministers were ' lulled into a false security,' and a prey ' to the worst of all policies, that of procrastination.' He dwelt on Garat's insolence, and the readiness of the Neapolitan army to march into the Romagna ' ready to receive them.' He hoped that Mack's imminent arrival would brace ministers into resolution. He welcomed with admiring respect a ' dignified ' letter from the Queen, according with his own favourite quotation from Chatham, ' the boldest measures are the safest.' He presented his manifesto as a ' preparitive ' {sic), and as ' the unalterable opinion of a British Admiral anxious to approve himself a faithful servant to his sovereign by doing every- thing in his power for the happiness and dignity of their Sicilian Majesties.' To Sir William he would write separ- ately.^ He recognised the signs of revolution, and already he sounded the note of warning. He recommended that their 'persons and property' should be ready in case of need for embarkation at the shortest notice. If ' the present ruinous system of procrastination ' persevered, it would be his ' duty ' to provide for the safety not only of the Hamil- tons, but of ' the amiable Queen of these kingdoms and her family.' The address of this paper to Emma, the emphasis of the Queen's letter, the promise of a separate one to Hamilton, show that the document was intended for the Queen's eye ^ Cf. Appendix, Part 11. A ; Add. MS. 34,989, f. 12, Lord Nelson to Lady ILiniilton, October 3 (much corrected and interlined), with which should be compared Nelson's letters to Hamilton ' off Malta, Oct. 27,' and to Eden, (at Vienna), Dec. 10. Cf. 'L'^w^hion's Despatches, pp. 171, 173. ' Laughton's Despatches, p. 167. •" The last three sentences, as well as the first of all, do not find place in the * letter' to Lady Hamilton printed by Professor Laughton. 234 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON alone, and point to the suggestion of it by Emma herself. We shall see that while Sir William was pushing affairs with the English Government, Emma, during Nelson's absence in the Adriatic and the Mediterranean, was practi- cally to be Ambassador at Naples. Next day Nelson ordered Ball to Malta with the ex- pressed objects not only of intercepting French com- munications with Egypt, of the island's blockade, and of co-operation with the Turkish and Russian fleets in the Archipelago, but specially of protecting the Sicilian and Neapolitan coasts.^ So annoyed was he at the King's inaction, that he even told Lord Spencer that ' Naples sees this squadron no more, except the King, who is losing " the glorious moments," should call for help."- By mid-October Nelson himself had set out first for Malta, and, after a brief interval of return, for the deliverance of Leghorn. Before the month's close the King and General Mack had started on their ill-starred campaign ; before the year's end a definitive Anglo-Sicilian alliance had been signed, and Grenville's former attitude reversed. The very day of Nelson's departure drew from him the tribute to Lady Hamilton which was in Pettigrew's posses- sion, and a facsimile of which accompanied the first volume of his Memoirs of Lord Nelson} ' I honour and respect you,' it ran, ' and my dear friend Sir William Hamilton, and believe me ever your faithful and affectionate Nelson' — the first letter, as 'his true friend ' Emma recorded on it, written to her * after his dignity to the peerage.' ^ The girl who, after the bartering Greville trampled upon her affections, had been gained into grateful attachment by Hamilton, with the covert resolve of becoming his wife and winning her spurs in the political tournament, had at length carved a career. Greville's neglect of her self-sacrifice had not hardened her, but her tender care of Sir William was fast assuming a new complexion. She had twice saved his ' Laughton's Despatches, p. 169. ^ Ibid. p. 169, October 9. ' p. 1 68. •■ The patent of Barony (considered very inadequate in view of Jervis's pre- vious earldom) was not officially granted till November 17. TRIUMPH 235 life ; she had perpetually urged his activities ; she still watched over him. But, under her standards of instinct and experience, she was half gravitating towards the per- suasion that they might warrant her in taking her fate into her own hands. She hated ' half measures ' ; neck or nothing, she would realise herself. Her chief cravings remained as yet unsatisfied. Womanlike, she had yearned for true sympathy. Here was one willing and eager to listen. She had long been in love with glory. Here was a hero who personified it. She had sighed for adventures in the grand style. Here was opportunity. She wavered on the verge of a new temptation. She felt as though her wandering soul had at last found its way. Yet, in reality, she still groped in a maze of contending emotions, nor would she stop to inquire by what clue her quick steps were hurrying her : the moment was all in all. She still identified her intense friendship with her husband's. Dis- loyalty still revolted her in its masked approaches ; and yet she struggled, half-consciously, with a ' faith unfaithful ' that was to keep her ' falsely true.' Omitting further historical detail, we may turn at once to the part played by Emma with the Queen at Caserta as her hero's vice-gerent during his nine weeks' absence. Her heart was with the ships, and she pined to quit the villeggia- tura for Naples.^ It was, in her own words, with Nelson's ' spirit ' that Emma inflamed the Queen, from whom she was now in- separable. The King still looked to Austria, and thought of little else but his daughter-in-law's coming confinement. The Queen, who had hesitated, at last caught the prompt- ness of Nelson's policy. General Mack had arrived, but a thousand official obstacles impeded his preparations. ' He does not go to visit the frontiers,' wrote Emma to Nelson,^ •but is now working night and day, and then goes for good, and I tell her Majesty, for God's sake, for the country's sake, and for your own sake, send him off as soon as possible, no time to be lost, and I believe he goes after ' Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 14. - October 20. 236 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to-morrow.' The suppression of the Irish rebellion had removed yet another spoke from the Republican wheel. ' I translate from our papers,' said Emma, ' to inspire her or them, I should say, with some of your spirit and energy. How delighted we both were to speak of you. She loves, respects, and admires you. For myself, I will leave you to guess my feelings. Poor dear Troubridge stayed that night with us to comfort us. What a good dear soul he is. . . . He is to come down soon, and I am to present him. She sees she could not feel happy if she had not an English ship here to send off. . . . How we abused Gallo yesterday. How she hates him. He won't reign long — so much the better. . . . You are wanted at Caseria. All their noddles are not worth yours.' There were affectionate mentions of Tyson and Hardy, with the hope that the * Italian spoil-stomach sauce of a dirty Neapolitan' might not hurt the invalid, but that perhaps Nelson's steward provided him 'with John Bull's Roast and Boil.'^ Then followed her enthusiasm over Nelson's honours, and her wrath at the stint of home recognition, which have been echoed already. In the same long letter, containing, as was her wont, the diary of a week, she resumes her political story. She and her Queen had been ecstatic over the Sultan's lavish acknowledgments of Nelson's victory. ' The Queen says that, after the English she loves the Turks, and she has reason, for, as to Vienna, the ministers deserve to be hanged, and if Naples is saved, no thanks to the Emperor. For he is kindly leaving his father in the lurch. We have been two days desperate on account of the weak and cool acting of the Cabinet of Vienna. Thugut^ must be gained ; but the Emperor — oh, but he is a poor sop, a machine in the hands of his corrupted ministers. The Queen is in a rage. . . . Sunday last, two couriers, one from London, one from Vienna ; the first with the lovely news of a fleet to remain in the Mediterranean, and a treaty made of the most flattering kind for Naples. In short, everything amicable . . . and most truly honourable. ' Add. MS. 34,989,1. 14. "^ The negotiator of the Campoformio Treaty in 1797. TRIUMPH 237 T'other from their dear son and daughter,^ cold, un- friendly, mistrustful, Frenchified ; and saying plainly, help yourselves. How the dear Maria Carolina cried for joy at the one and rage at the other. But Mack is gone to the army to prepare all to march immediately.'^ And here, too, is the place of that dramatic outburst, cited in the Prelude, where Emma extended her left arm, like Nelson, and 'painted the drooping situation,' stimulating the Queen's decision in face of those hampering obstacles on the part of Gallo and the King, which proved so uncon- scionable a time in dying. ' In short, there was a council, and it was decided to march out and help themselves ; and, sure, their poor fool of a son will not, cannot but come out. He must bring 150,000 men in the Venetian State. The French could be shut in between the two armies, Italy cleared, and peace restored. I saw a person from Milan yesterday, who says that a small army would do, for the Milanese have had enough of liberty.' She depicts the horrid state of that capital, the starvation side by side with the rampant licentiousness of the Jacobins 'putting Virtue out of countenance by their . . . libertinage. . . . So, you see, a little would do. Now is tJie tnoment, and, indeed, everything is going on as we could wish.' Emma has been hitherto and often painted as the Queen's mouthpiece. She was really Nelson's, and her intuition had grasped his mastership of the political prospect. Was she not right in declaring that she had ' spurred them on ' ? The Queen had been actually heartened into resolving on a regency, a new fact which reveals the political divergences between the royal pair at this period. ' The King is to go in a few days, never to return. The regency ^ is to be in the name of the Prince Royal, but the Queen will direct all. Her head is worth a thousand. I have a pain in my head, . . . and must go take an airing. . . . May you live long, long, long for the sake of your country, your King, your family, all Europe, ' i.e. the Austrian Emperor and Empress — the Neapolitan Princess. » Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 18-24. * At first the Queen had meant to be Reyent herself. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 4. This ' regency ' the Queen by October 24 planned to be perpetual, and the King was ' not to return.' — Cf. ibid. f. 24. Lady Hamilton to Lady Nelson, October 2, 1798. See Appendix. 238 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Asia, Africa, and America [Emma is on her stilts once more], and for the scourge of France, but particularly for the happiness of Sir William and self, who love you, admire you, and glory in your friendship.' Sir William's new name for Nelson was now ' the friend of our hearts.' And these hearts were certainly stamped with his image : — ' Your statue ought to be made of pure gold and placed in the middle of London. Never, never was there such a battle, and if you are not regarded as you ought and I wish, I will renounce my country and become either a Mameluke or a Turk. The Queen yesterday said to me, the more I think on it, the greater I find it, and I feel such gratitude to the warrior, . . . my respect is such, that I could fall at his honoured feet and kiss them. You that know us both, and how alike we are in many things, that is, I as Emma Hamilton, she as Queen of Naples, imagine us both speak- ing of you. ... I would not be a lukewarm friend for the world. I . . . cannot make friends with all, but the few friends I have, I would die for them. ... I told her Majesty we only wanted Lady Nelson to be the female Tria juncta in uno, for we all love you, and yet all three differently, and yet all equally, if you can make that out.' . . . And Lady Nelson, accordingly, she congratulated twice, both on the Queen's behalf and her own.^ Nelson returned for a fortnight in the earlier days of November, more than ever dissatisfied with the Neapolitan succours and the Portuguese co-operation at Malta. There, with strong significance in view of next year's crisis at Naples, he had notified the French, who rejected his over- tures, that he would certainly disregard any capitulation into which the Maltese General might afterwards be forced to enter.2 j^g learned the decision for definite war, and 1 Cf. Add. MS. 34,989, f. 8. The letter will be found in the Appendix. ''■ Cf. Nelson's manifesto to the French commander at Malta, October 1798 [excerpted in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905] :— ' My objects are to assist the people of Malta in forcing you to abandon the island. ... If my offers are rejected, or the French ships \i.e. the Guillaume Tell, Diana,z.ndjustice']make their escape, notwithstanding my vigilance, I declare I will not enter or join in any capitulation act.' ' Nor will I ever permit any which may be like the present, >?iuch less will I intercede for ike lives or forgivemss of those who have betrayed their country. I beg leave lu assure you that this is the determination o( a British Admiral.' TRIUMPH 239 the King's reluctant consent at length to accompany the army to Rome. No sooner had Garat been dismissed, than the French declared war also. Force, then, must repel force, for the Ligurian Republic meant nothing but France in Italy. Throughout, moreover. Nelson's guiding aim was the destruction of Jacobinism, which, indeed, he regarded as anti-Christ. He collected his forces and set out for Leghorn,^ which soon surrendered (although Buonaparte's brother Louis escaped the blockade),^ landing once more at Naples in the first week of December. At first Mack and the Neapolitan troops prevailed, and Prince Moli- terno's valour covered the cowardice of his troops. The King entered Rome ; the Queen's mercurial hopes ran high. But her exultation was short-lived. Before the end of the first week in December Carolina wrote to her confidante that she now pitied the King intensely, and ' would be with him.' ' God only knows what evils are in reserve. I am deeply affected by it, and expect every day something more terrible. The good only will be the victims. . . . Mack is in despair, and has reason to be so.' ^ The French Berthier proved an abler, though not a braver,* general than the Austrian, but Mack had raw and wretched levies under his command i^ his officers were bribed and their men deserted. Rome was re- taken ; a retreat became unavoidable, and by the second week in December that retreat had already become a rout. From the close of November onwards the Queen grew more and more despondent, though Duckworth's naval success at Minorca, the promise by the Czar Paul of his fleet, and the retirement of the Republicans from Frosinone had cheered her. She was very ill, and fresh home conspiracies were in course of discovery.^ ' November 22. •^ Cf. the Queen's despairing letter to Emma, Eg. MS. 161S, f. 28. •* Cf. her letter cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 171. * The Queen says of him after his disaster : ' Uont U courage, radivite, sur- passe toute id^e.'' — Helfcrt's Fabitzio Riiffo, p. 383. Nelson, however, damned his incompetence. Cf. J\Icmoirs and Letters of Sir IV. Hoste, vol. i. p. 113. * Acton, writing to Hamilton on December 15, 1798, says they were 'moUifyed people since ages — no caractcr' — curiou.sly phrased and spelled. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 153. « Cf. Eg. MS. 1619, fir. 5, 7. 240 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Emma still lingered in her neighbourhood at Caserta. Beseeching Nelson not to go ashore at Leghorn, and rejoicing at the unfounded rumour that his ' dear, vener- able father' had been made a bishop, she informed him that the King had at length issued a clear manifesto. The army had marched, the Queen had just gone to pray for them in the cathedral. She announced the King's trium- phal entry into Rome from Frascati ; she hoped the best from the battle of Velletri, fought even as she writes. ' Everybody here,' she assured Nelson, ' prays for you. Even the Neapolitans say mass for you, but Sir William and I are so anxious that we neither eat, drink, nor sleep ; and till you are safely landed and come back we shall feel mad.' The secret of Nelson's movements and preparations she will never betray, nor would red-hot torture wrest it from her. ' We send you one of your midshipmen, left here by accident ; . . . pray don't punish him. Oh ! I had forgot I would never ask favours, but you are so good I cannot help it.' And then follows a tell-tale passage : ' We have got Josiah. How glad I was to see him. Lady Knight, Miss Knight, Carrol, and Josiah dined to-day with us, but alas ! your place at table was occupied by Lady K. I could have cried, I felt so low-spirited.' ^ Is it a wonder that Nelson was moved? One can hear how her confidence impressed him. Shortly after his return he frankly avowed, ' My situation in this country has had, doubtless, one rose, but it has been plucked from a bed of thorns.' ^ This, then, was no waxen camellia, but a rose whose fresh scent contrasted with the hot atmosphere of the court and the prickles of perpetual vexation. The reader must judge whether such efforts and appeals, this developing energy and tenderness, were the manoeuvres of craft. It is patent from the correspondence that Emma's interjectional letters, which think aloud, answer epistles trom Nelson of even tenor. A comparison, moreover, with her girlish epistles^ to Greville shows a sameness of quality that will stand the same test. She remains 'the same Emma.' 1 Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 28, 30-31, November 24, 25. "^ To Duckworth, December 6, 1798. Laughton's Despatches, p. 173. ^ One of them exists. Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 2. TRIUMPH 241 Nelson rejoined the Hamiltons at a critical moment. His wise forecast that unless Ferdinand and Maria coveted the fate of Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette, flight alone could save them, was fast being justified. The nobles, jealous of English influence, were now thoroughly disaffected. Gathering reverses incensed a populace that was only too likely to be frenzied should their King prefer escape Sicily- ward to trust in their tried loyalty. As yet Naples had been free from the French, but the likelihood of invasion grew daily ; and even in June Neapolitan neutrality had been known to be merely nominal. The proud Queen, as we shall find when the dreaded moment arrived, would rather have welcomed death than retreat. But Acton, at present in Rome,^ had slowly come to concur with the trio of the Embassy. The melodrama of the actual escape, on which new manuscripts cast fresh lights, must be reserved for a separate chapter. ' The devil take most Kings and Queens, I say, for they are shabbier than their subjects ! ' had been Sir Joseph Banks's exclamation to Sir William Hamilton in 1795.- At this present end of 1798 the devil (or Buonaparte) proved especially busy in this particular branch of his business. ^ With the King. Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 151, where he writes thence to Hamilton, congratulating him on Nelson's return from Leghorn. - Eg. MS. 2641, f. 157. CHAPTER IX FLIGHT December 1798 — Ja7iuary 1799 It is clear all along that Emma chafed against vegetation. Tameness and sameness wearied her, and she longed for historical adventures. She had now lit on a thrilling one indeed. To aid in planning, preparing, deciding and executing a royal escape in the midst of revolution, on the brink of invasion, and at the risk of life, was a task the romance and the danger of which allured her dramatic fancy. That it did not repeat the blunders of Varennes was largely owing to Nelson's foresight and her own inde- fatigable energy. And omens — for they each believed in them — must have appeared to both. Before the battle of the Nile a white bird had perched in his cabin. He and Emma marked the same white bird when the King was restored in the following July ; and Nelson always declared that he saw it again before Copenhagen, though it was missed at Trafalgar. It was his herald of victory. Nor under the auspices of triumph was death also ever absent from the thoughts of the man, who accepted, as a welcome present from a favoured Captain, the coffin made from a mast of the ruined U Orient. For flight Emma had not influenced her friend : it was Nelson's project. ' If things take an unfortunate turn here,' she had written to Nelson two months before, ' and the Queen dies at her post, I will remain with her. If she goes, ffollow her.' 1 The second week of December proved to the Queen that 1 Add. MS. 34,989, f- 24, Lady H. to Nelson, October 28, 1798. See Appendix. 242 FLIGHT 243 events were inexorable, and her selfish son-in-law cold and unmoved : he shifted with the political barometer. She had despatched her courier, Rosenheim, to Vienna, but he only returned with ill tidings. Vienna would 'give no orders.' In vain she supplicated her daughter, ' may your dear husband be our saviour.' The Emperor flatly refused his aid. His subjects now desired peace, and the Neapoli- tans must ' help themselves.' If Naples were assailed, the Austrian treaty, it is true, would entitle reinforcements from Vienna. But even so, the poorness of their troops, and the grudging inclination of their ruler, left the issue but little mended. The Queen was in despair. The French excuse for war had been the alleged breach of their treaty by the watering of the British fleet. A threatening army of invaders was already known to be on its way ; yet still she hoped against hope, and hesitated over the final plunge. She despatched Gallo to Vienna to beseech her son-in-law once more. She cursed the treaty of Campoformio, to which she attributed the whole sad sequel of disaster. She vowed that her own kinsfolk were leagued together in spite against 'the daughter 'and the grandchildren 'of the great Maria Theresa.' When the news fell like a thunderbolt that Mack's case was desperate, the French troops in occupation of Castel St. Angelo, and her husband about to scurry out of Rome,^ those children could only * weep and pray.' The fact that the Jacobins — the ' right-minded,' as they already styled themselves — welcomed each crowning blow as a help to their cause, heightened the humiliation. ^ The Queen, slighted and indignant, betook herself to Nelson and to Emma.^ They both pressed anew the urgent necessity of flight ; but at first she disdained it. It was a ' fresh blow to her soul and spirit ' ;^ her original plan had been to send off only her children.'' Its bare possibility was difficult to realise ; and, after her husband's ashamed return, the popular ferment seemed to bar its very execution. She dreaded a repetition of Varennes. In the midst of brawl and tumult ' December 11. * Pepe, Memoirs, p. 30. ■^ Cf. for the foregoing P'g. MS. 1623, f. I, and the Queen's letters to her (laughter, given in \\c\itx\.^s Fabrizio Ruff'o (1815), pp. 372, 379, 3X3. ♦ Helfert, p. 3S4. " Cf. Add. MS. 34.9S9» f- M- 244 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the King returned, and, faltering, showed himself on his balcony. Lusty shouts of 'You will not go! We will deal with the Jacobins ! ' burst from the surging crowd. A spy was knifed in the open streets, and the false nobles cast the blame on the Queen. She should be held blood-guilty. In bitter agony ^ she apprised her daughter that death was preferable to such dishonour. She would die every inch a Queen. ' I have renounced this world,' wrote Maria Theresa's true offspring, ' I have renounced my reputation as wife and mother. I am preparing to die, and making ready for an eternity for which I long. This is all that is left to me.' Even when she had been brought to the last gasp of obeying her kind friends and her hard fate, her letters to Vienna sound the tone of one stepping to the scaffold. While the furious mob growled and groaned out- side, her last requests to her daughter were for her husband and children. On the very edge of her secret start, the advices that General Burchardt ^ had marched his thousand men, if not with flying colours, at least in fighting trim, so far as Isoletta, may have once more made her rue her forced surrender. But meanwhile the Hamiltons, Nelson, and Acton were in determined and close consultation, with Emma for Nelson's interpreter. The establishment of the Ligurian Republic had for some time boded the certainty of Buona- parte's designs against the two Sicilies. The General had at first written to Sir William with some sang-froid of the 'troublesome and dangerous circumstances' of the 'crisis,'^ but within a few days he was a zealous co-operator. Nel- son, above all men, would never have counselled a base desertion. But he knew the real circumstances, the general perfidy, the Austrian weakness, both playing into the hands of the French. Already, to his knowledge,* the aggressor's ' On December 17 she writes to Emma, 'Tout cela me fait vivre en agonie.' Eg. MS. i6i5,f. 122, andcf. the transcript, Eg. MS. 1620, f. 52. On December 19 she calls herself ' stupefied by this stroke,' and says that she ' weeps without ceasing.' Its suddenness, she adds, overwhelms her, and will go down with her to the grave. Jbid. f. 126. The spy's name was Ferrari. ^ By Acton and the Queen styled ' Bourkard.' — Laughton's Despatches, p. 175. 3 Eg. MS. 2640, f. 152. •• Morrison MS. 364, Nelson to Hamilton, December 14, 1798. FLIGHT 245 footfall was audible, and, after General Mack's fiasco, no resources were left at home. His firm resolve was to await the moment when he might deal a fresh death-blow to Buonaparte, and meanwhile to seize the first opportunity for crushing the Neapolitan Jacobins and reinstating the Neapolitan King. For him the cause symbolised not despotism against freedom, not the progress from law to liberty, but discipline and patriotism against licence and anarchy. He had summoned ships to protect the Vanguard: the Culloden with Troubridge from the north and west coasts of Italy, the Goliath from off Malta, the Alcmene under Captain Hope from Egypt.^ He had already provided for the protection of the principal ports.- He had foreseen that ' within six months the Neapolitan Republic would be armed, organised, and called forth,' that malingering Austria was herself/;/ extremis? They urged the Queen to prepare for the worst; and from December 17 onwards, while their measures were being concerted, Emma superintended the gradual transport from the palace of valuables both private and public. The pro- cess occupied her night and day for nearly a week, and required the strictest secrecy and caution. Some she fetched, some she received, all she stowed. Our critics, biassed, may be, by anxiety to impugn Emma's latest memorial, make much of evidence in a few isolated letters,* indicating that the Queen forwarded some of her effects by trusted messengers, and omitting that Emma caused any herself to be carried from the palace to the Embassy, The point is immaterial, but even here criticism has erred perhaps from some lack of full investigation. The very bulk of the many chests and boxes to be removed was to cause a dangerous delay in the eventual voyage. They were conveyed in different ways, some on shipboard (among them the public treasure), others, including jewels and linen, by the hands of the servant Saverio ; others again to be transported by Emma herself The Queen, in one of ' Laughlon's Despatches, p. 175. - Ibid. p. 362. ' Ibid. p. 173. * Especially that concerning the 'jewels of a whole wretched family.' — Eg, MS. 1616, f. 92. This Pottigrew mistakenly transfers to the following year, vol, i, p, 375. 246 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON her almost hourly notes, expressly hoped that she was not * indiscreet in sending these,' thereby suggesting that various means of conveyance had been used for some of the rest. In another, too, she excused herself for her 'abuse oi your kindnesses and that of our brave Admiral.' Nelson's official account to Lord St. Vincent stated that * Lady Hamilton ' from December 14 to 21 'received the jewels, etc.'^ Emma's own recital to Greville, less than a fortnight after the terrors of the journey were past, included as the least of her long fatigues that ' for six nights before the embarkation ' she ' sat up ' at her own house ' receiving all the jewels, money and effects of the royal family, and from thence conveying them on board the Vanguard^ living in fear of being torn to pieces by the tumultuous mob, who suspected our departure,' but ' Sir William and I being beloved in the Country saved us.' Sir William himself informed Greville that ' Emma has had a very principal part in this delicate business, as she is, and has been for several years the real and only confidential friend of the Queen of Naples.'^ In the pathos of the Queen's letters to Emma resides their true interest. Maria Carolina's anguish increased as the plot for her preservation thickened ; she clung piteously to the strong arms of Emma and Nelson, who really managed the whole business.^ Sobs and tears, paroxysms of scorn and sighs of rage more and more pervade them, as one by one the strongholds of her country yield or are captured. She is 'the most unfortunate of Queens, mothers, women, but Emma's sincerest friend.'* It is to her alone that she ' habitually opens her heart' ^ Emma's indorsements may serve as an index : — ' My adorable, unfortunate Queen. God bless and protect her and her august family.' ' Dear, dear Queen' — ' Unfortunate Queen.' More than a month earlier she had protested to Nelson her readiness, if need be, to accompany her to the block.^ One of these billets tristes of the Queen to her friend encloses a little blue-printed pic- ' Cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 175. '■^ Morrison MS. 369, Hamilton to Greville, January 6, 1799; 370, Lady Hamilton to the same, January 7, 1799. ^ ' It was,' wrote Nelson officially to Lord St. Vincent, on Decemloer 28, * carried on with the greatest address by Lady H. and the Queen.' — Laughton's Despatches, p. 175 * Eg. MS. 1615, f. 129. s /^j^ ^5J5^ f g_ b /^j,/. 34,989. f- 24- FLIGHT 247 ture. It is an elegiac. A wreathed Amorino pipes mourn- fully beside a cypress-shadowed tomb, behind which two Cupids are carelessly dancing : on the tomb is inscribed ' Embarque je vous en prie. M. C.'^ — Emma's melancholy refrain to the would-be martyr. Prince Belmonte, now chamberlain, acted as the King's agent and Caracciolo's, in effecting a scheme full of diffi- culty, owing to the great number of the refugees, the ridiculous etiquette of precedences, insisted on even at such an hour, the vast quantity of their united baggage, the avowed designs of the French Directory, the covert conspiracies of false courtiers in which the War Minister himself was implicated, the fierceness of popular tumult and the Jacobin spies who kept a sharp lookout on Nelson, but were ' foiled by Emma's adroitness.' ^ The plan originally concerted was as follows. The escape was to happen on the night of the 21st, After the last instalments of treasure and detachments of foreigners had been safely and ceremoniously deposited on board their several vessels. Count Thurn (an Austrian Admiral of the Neapolitan navy) would attend outside the secret passage^ leading from the royal rooms to the ' Molesiglio,' or little quay, to receive Nelson or his nominees. Caracciolo, as head of Marine, had begged hard to convoy the royal party and float the royal standard on his flag-ship, but had been dryly denied ; * and this, perhaps, was the first prick to that treacherous revenge which six months later he was to expiate by his life. But on a sudden, at the eleventh hour, the whole was put ofi"till the next evening. The chests in which some of the treasure had been bestowed on the Alcmene were rotten ; at least this was one of the pretexts which Nelson, who had already signed orders for safe conduct and for an emissary to conduct the royalties,^ evidently mistrusted. ^ For the preceding cf. F2g. MS. 1615, ft". 122, 124, 126, 129, 131 ; Eg. MS. 1616, f. 92. ■■^ Cf. Nelson's own statement to Lord St. Vincent, LauglUon's Despatches, p. 175- ' 'Thurn shall open the little rooms at the Molesillo.' — Eg. MS. 2640, f. 159. Cf. also/^^/, p. 252. * Pepe, Memoirs, p. 32. ^ Commodore Campbell, lie was to ' proceed with two anned boats' to the small quay abutting on the palace. The safe-conduct was for Lady Knight, 248 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON On this eventful day at least six communications passed between Hamilton and Acton (if the inclosures from the palace are included), and Nelson, prompt and impatient, was acutely irritated. In vain Acton expressed his acquiescence. He was ' in hopes that three or four hours will not exasperate more than at present our position.' Nelson remained polite, but suspicious.^ The fact was that both King and Queen waited on Providence at the last gasp. The former dreaded to desert his people at the moment of defeat ; the latter feared a step which, if futile, might irreparably alienate her husband, and must render her execrable to the faithful Lazzaroni. By means of the old manuscripts the scene rises vividly before us. Within the precincts of the palace, flurry, dissen- sion, wavering perplexity, confusion, a spectral misery.^ In its purlieus, treason. Outside, a seditious loyalty with- holding the King from the Queen. In the council-chamber, Belmonte, serene and punctilious ; Gallo, dainty in danger ; Caracciolo, jealous and sullen ; Acton, slow, doubtful, and stolid. At the English Embassy alone reigned vigilance, resolve, and resourcefulness. Every English merchant (and there were many both here and at Leghorn) looked to Nelson and Hamilton and Emma. Among phantoms these were realities. On them alone counted those poor ' old demoi- selles of France' who had sought asylum in the Neapolitan palace. On them alone hung the destinies of a dynasty threatened at home, forsaken abroad, and faced with the certainty of invasion. They stood for the British fleet, and the British fleet for the salvation of Europe. The ominous morning dawned of the 21st. All that day General Acton pelted Nelson and Hamilton with contradictory announcements, of which no fewer than eight remain. At first he agrees that the moment has come when ' no time should be lost,' but the inevitable proviso who was put in charge of Commodore Stone. * Do not be alarmed, there is in truth no cause for it.' 1 For the preceding, inter alia, cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 151, 153, 157, 159, l6l ; Eg. MS. 1623, ff. 4, 5, 7 ; Morrison MS. 365, 366. "^ On December 21, Acton wrote in his quaint English, ' Every head in the palace is in a strange state oi accension.' — Eg. MS. 1623, f. 5. FLIGHT 249 follows — ' If the wind does not blow too hard.' He next writes that, in such a case, all had best be deferred afresh. The Alcmene, too, with the bullion on board — as much as two million and a half sterling — was off Posilippo, and its signals might alarm the angry crowds, clamouring for their King at Santa Lucia, and on the Chiaja. Another billet promises the ' King's desire ' as soon forthcoming.^ In another, once more, grave consideration is devoted to the usual retiring hour of the young princes, and to the ' feeding-time ' of the King's grandchild, the babe in arms of the heir-apparent and Princess Clementina, which had been so anxiously awaited in October ; * a sucking child,' says Acton in a crowning instance of unconscious humour, ' makes a most dreadful spectacle to the eyes of the servant women and in the rest of the family.'^ Nelson, pressing for expedition, was beside himself over the precious moments thus being squandered. What Acton remarks in one of these letters, once more in his peculiar English, applies also to his own communications, ' Heavings from every side . . . contradictions from every corner.' Nelson, however, would brook no more trifling. Every- thing must be settled by seven o'clock. Count Thurn must be at the appointed refidesvous, the Molesiglio.^ His pass- word, unless some unexpected force intervened, was to be the English, ^ All goes right and weir \ otherwise, ^ All is wrongs you may go back.' One can imagine the unfortunate Count rehearsing his provoking part that afternoon with an Austrian accent : ' A I goes raight ' — ' Al ees vrong.' Acton and Caracciolo drew up the order of embarkation. By half- past eight the royal contingent, convoyed by Nelson and his friends through the secret passage to the little quay, were to have been rowed on board the Vanguard. It comprised besides the King, Queen, the Hereditary Prince with his wife and infant (whose ' zafatta,' ' And this in spile of Nelson's receipt from him of a note on the 19th con- firming the King's approval of Nelson's plans. Cf. Laughton's Despatches, P- 175- - Eg. MS. 2640, f. 163. ^ At a landing-stage called Vittoria (^ La ricloire'). Cf. Eg. MS. 1623, f. 7. 250 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON or nurse, was no less a personage than the Duchess of Gravina), the little Prince Albert, to whom Emma was devoted (with his ' zafatta ' also), Prince Leopold, the three remaining princesses, Acton, Princes Castelcicala and Belmonte, Thurn, and the court physician Vincenzo Ruzzi. The second embarkation was to follow two hours later with a great retinue, including, it is interesting for Mendelssohn- admirers to notice, the name of ' Bartoldi.' The rest were to proceed in three several detachments, amounting to nearly four hundred souls, noble and otherwise, among whom some of Acton's family are specified. The two royal spinsters of France were to be conducted with every pre- caution by land to Portici, whence they might find their way over the border. All friendly Ambassadors were to be notified. Such was the routine.^ It should be especially noticed that from these exact lists, detailing the names of every passenger, the Hamiltons are absent. They were under Nelson's care, and of his party — a point most material to the future narrative substantiating Lady Hamilton's own subsequent story. And it must further be emphasised that these Acton letters, as well as a reference in one of the Queen's, conclusively establish the plan of the secret passage as an historical fact, instead of as any figment or after-inlay of Emma's imagination. As night drew on Maria Carolina sat down to indite two letters, the one to her daughter at Vienna, the other to Emma, who would rejoin her so soon in this crisis of her fate. She wrote them amid horrors and in wretchedness. The army could no more be trusted. Even the navy was in revolt. Orders had been given that, after the royal departure, the remaining ships were to be burned lest they should fall into French or revolutionary hands. As she wrote, the tidings came that the miserable Vanni — the creature of her inquisition — had shot himself dead, and she loads herself with reproaches. Massacre continued ; the very French emigres were not spared by the Italian Jacobins. Everywhere tumult, disgrace, bloodshed. The crowd, calmed for a moment, still howled at intervals for ^ Eg. MS. 1623, ff. 8-1 1. Most of these particulars, but signed in Carac- ciolo's iiand, are also given by Peltigrew, vol. i. pp. 181-1S6. I FLIGHT 251 their King, whose departure they now suspected. The ' cruel determination ' had been foisted on her. ' Once on board,' the Queen tells the Empress, ' God help us, . . . saved, but ruined and dishonoured.' To Lady Hamilton she repeats the same distracted burden. Discipline has vanished. ' Unbridled ' licence grows hourly. Their ' con- cert with their liberator' is their mainstay. Her last thoughts are for the safety of friends and dependants, whom she confides by name to Emma's charge. To it also she commends herself and hers. It will seem ages till they meet again. ' Eternal gratitude ' is her offering to her friend, and the friend o( their rescuer.' The sky was clouded. There was a lull in the strong wind off the shore, but a heavy ground-swell prevailed as the appointed hour approached.- The royal party anxiously waited in their apartments — the Queen's room with its dark exit, so familiar to the romantic Emma,^ — for the signal which should summon them through the tunnel to the water-side. On the Molesiglio, and at his station near the Arsenal, stood Thurn, muffled and ill at ease. It was the night of a reception given in Nelson's honour by Kelim Effendi, the bearer from the Sultan of his ' plume of triumph.' The exact sequence of what now occurred is difficult, but possible, to collect from the three contemporary and, at first sight, conflicting documents that survive. There is the Queen's own brief recital to her daughter."* There is Nelson's dry official despatch to Lord St. Vincent, accentu- ating, however, Emma's conspicuous services.^ There are Emma's own hurried lines" to Greville, thirteen days after that awful voyage, which, for three days and nights, deprived her of sleep and strained every faculty of mind and body. ' For the foregoing of. Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 159, 161, 163, 165 ; Eg. MS. 1623, ff. 5, 7, 8, 10 ; Eg. MS. 1615, f. 131 ; Helfert's Fabrizio Ruffo, pp. 386-387. - 7.30 by Neapolitan time, as arranged by Acton. According to Nelson's official account to Lord St. Vincent, it was 8.30— :.«. by English log time. It must therefore have been altered again. ' ' The dark staircase that goes into the Queen's room.' — Morrison MS. 370, Lady Hamilton to Greville, January 7, 1799. ^ llelfert, p. 387. '•• Laughton's Z>< n S en b U D .-) <: < W ^ < o t-i < 13 u Z C3 o z S < s > < HH a •^ u >> E- Q Z < 0. O >• H l-l n Q < a m c-i O Z oi bJ a. VI t£ a OS Z " < Cd J ea < H H X H FLIGHT 259 tributed to the safety of the ships, and who was again to pilot the King next year into port, became, in that very year, himself a suspect and an exile.^ Among the furniture abandoned at the English Embassy were a beautiful table and cabinet which the grateful Nelson had ordered from England as mementos for Emma, and whose classical designs of muses and hovering cupids are said to have been painted by Angelica Kaufifmann. These still exist, and are in the present possession of Mr. Sander- son, the eminent Edinburgh collector, to whose kindness the writer is indebted for a photograph. It was these, per- haps, that Nelson sought to recover for Emma in 1804, but without success.- The Queen secluded herself in the old palace of Colli. Save Emma and her own circle, she would receive nobody. She was overwhelmed with the double weight of her misfortunes. Her throat, head, and chest were affected ; the physicians were summoned, but her malady lay beyond their cure. Not only had she been sorely bereaved, dis- graced by defeats, and stung by treacheries, but her husband now began to make her a scapegoat. This, forsooth, was the fruit of her Anglo-mania — a revolted kingdom, a maddened though adoring populace, an advancing and arrogant enemy. Every day the Queen frequented the churches for prayer and the convents for meditation. Each evening she poured out her heart to the helpful friend of her choice, whose sympathy lightened a load else insupportable.^ With some difficulty the Hamiltons, whose permanent guest Nelson now first became, found a suitable abode not too distant from the palace, and, as they hoped, nealthier in situation than most of a then malarious city. But they all suffered from the bad air, the more so in the reaction of the change from their Neapolitan home. On Emma now devolved half the duties of the transferred Embassy. Sir William waxed peevish and querulous. He bemoaned the wreck of the Colossus, which had carried his art treasures 1 Pepp, p. 33. '^ Through Falconet the banker. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 19. '•' Cf. especially Eg. MS. 1615, f. 134; and see the note cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 187, 188. CHAPTER X TRIUMPH ONCE MORE To August 1799 ' Conspiracies are for aristocrats, not for nations,' is a pregnant apophthegm of Disraeli. Viewed at its full length and from its inner side, the great Jacobin outburst at Naples was more of a conspiracy than a revolution, or even an insurrection. To appreciate Nelson's part, and Emma's help, in the much-criticised suppression of the Neapolitan Jacobins during June, it behoves us to track, however briefly, the course of that most interesting and singular movement. This is not the occasion for a minute inquiry ; but four preliminary considerations must be kept in mind. In the first place, this revolt differs from all others in that it was one of the noblesse and bourgeoisie against the whole mass of the people. In the second, its chief leaders, both men and women (and it is doubly engrossing from the fact that women played a great part in it), confessedly took their lives into their hands. They were quite ready to annihilate the objects of their loathing, and, therefore, they had small right to complain when opportunity transferred to them- selves the doom that they had planned for others. They proved fully as much tyrants and tormentors as their sovereign ; and the whole conflict was really one between two absolutisms, democratic and bureaucratic — a struggle between extreme systems exhibiting equal symptoms of the same evil. The ' Civic Guard,' to be erected by the ' Deputies,' persecuted just as Maria Carolina's secret police had persecuted before. Acton's exactions were to be out- done by the French Commissary Faypoult's pillage, and 262 TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 263 the French General Championnet's ' indemnities.' As for brutality, it was tripled by the new reign of terror, and when Championnet compassed the conciliation of the brave populace, he contrived even to ' brutalise miracles.'^ Again, the Neapolitan Jacobins were not only oppressors of all authority, but traitors to the people as well as to the King ; while at last they openly confederated with the invaders of their fatherland and of Europe. It was thus that the force and guile of Napoleon trafficked in the reveries of Rousseau. It is true, nevertheless, that many of them were inspired by noble motives and proved conscientious victims. Such as these lend colour to the redeeming aspect of the move- ment as a real step in the progress of law to liberty. Some were lofty idealists, while others, however, dreamed of realising theories impossible even in Cloud-Cuckoo-land.^ Savants and ignoramuses, philanthropists and cosmopoli- tans abounded. But the majority were actuated by very personal motives, and inspired by overweening ambitions. None of them, not the noblest, were originative. All were under the spell of France ; the worst, under that of French gold ; the best, under that of French sentiment. And, before the close, there were very few even among the least practical who did not rue the day when they invited self- interest masquerading as friendship, and opened their gates and their hearts to the busybodying emissaries of the Directory. The very name of Faypoult soon became more odious than the fact of Ferdinand. Once more, just as the contemporary Jacobins con- founded licence with freedom, and ascribed to paper consti- tutions the virtues of native patriotism, so the more modern Italians have always, and naturally, viewed in the blood of these martyrs the seed of United Italy. It is a legend ineradicable from history ; and, after the same manner, ' Dumas, / Borboni di Napoli, vol. ii. pp. 362-368 ; Souvenirs dtt Giniral Macdonald, p. 72; Croce, Studii Storici, p. 91 ; Nardiiii Mcinoires, p. 128, and cL post y p. 267. The phrase quoted of Championnet is used by \'ictor Hugo in Les Misirabks, where he remarks that this General sprang from the gutter. - One of them — a tailor — propounded a scheme of garden socialism. The city was to be erased. Nobody was to work. All were to be supported by a Stale without trade or exchequer ; and life was to be one long, open-air conversazione. 264 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON William Tell is made by Schiller the prophet of United Germany. Yet, in the main, a legend it remains. The ' Parthenopean Republic' was a venture purely local, un- illumined by any vision of broadened or strengthened nationality. What was not French in its fantasies, was derived from the models of ancient Rome.^ Nothing was farther from the aspirations of the Neapolitan Jacobins from December 1798 up to June 1799, than the ideal of one confederated commonwealth. Like the Ligurian Republic, the Neapolitan was the creature of France.- Through France it rose ; through France it fell. And it is not a little curious that, some sixty years later, it was to the third Napoleon once more that many in Italy looked up for regeneration. ' II merto oppresso, — il nazional mendico, Carco d'onor e gloria ogni straniero' had been Eleonora de Fonseca Pimentel's lament to the King in 1792. By the revival alone of national institutions, expressing national character, could a natural elasticity be restored. A theoretic and anti-national uprising actually deprived Naples of those enlightened schemes by which in her prime Maria Carolina had sought to renovate her people. She had cut the claws of the enraged nobles by abolishing their feudal prerogatives. She had sought to improve the superstitious Lazzaroni by projects of industry and education. She had exalted the applauding students into an aristocracy of talent. But it was as puppets dancing on her own wires that she had benefited them all. And the result showed that their real resentment was against any dependence whatever and any pauperisation. Whether by democracy or by bureaucracy, they refused to be transformed. From the feudal baron to the pagan beggar, each class wished to keep its distinctive flavour, and to live by its instincts. The * intellectuals' — a small remnant — were the sole cosmopolitans. They tried to transfigure ^ As may be seen in their newspaper the Monitore, edited by Eleonora Pimentel. Cf. B. Croce, Studii Storici siilla Revoluzione, p. 60. 2 Cf. A. Franchetti, Revista Storia di Resurgimento Italiano^ Vll., Vlii,: — ' La Relazione diplomatica fra la Corte di Napoli e la Francia.' TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 265 Naples into Utopia, and for that purpose invited a foe that forsook them. Denationah'sm (or a-nationalism) failed ; Naples remained Naples still. But the miserable alterna- tive proved the grinding sway of an avenging tyrant, bereft by rebellion of his old jollity, and untempered by the earlier intellectualism of his now fanatical wife. The Revolution presents the spectacle of characteristic class-instincts in orgy. It was a protest far more against Acton's bureaucratic routine, than against monarchy. Its eruptions were those of its physical surroundings. It was a Vesuvius, with all its attendants of whirlwind, earth- quake, and waterspout. The light of heaven was blotted out from the firmament, molten lava seared the whole social landscape, and the deeps of unbridled instinct shook in the tornado. Prince Pignatelli proved himself little but driftwood on the deluge. After conceding the Jacobin demands, he proceeded to gratify the Lazzaroni's. He ended by evading both, and failing even in his attempted barter of his country to Championnet. He opened with the usual paper-constitution. A 'civic guard' was formed, the military and civil functions were divided, a chamber of 'deputies'^ was constituted. Nominally, the elective system had been restored. But the first act of the new body was to abolish their viceroy's own provisions. They decreed that hence- forward royal power should devolve on two authorities alone — a chamber of nobles, and themselves, the 'Patriots'; the really popular element was thus excluded, and the real power became vested in a ' Venetian Oligarchy.' Pignatelli was rendered a cipher, and the Lazzaroni, who, strange to relate, proved themselves the sole realities in a limbo of phantoms, were furious at their own incapacitation. Pigna- telli at once burned one hundred and twenty bombardier boats — a work of needless destruction completed by Com- modore Campbell, to Nelson's disgust, some few months later ; Count Thurn — our watchman of a fortnight ago — blew up two vessels and three frigates. Amid this flare and detonation were born the calamity and carnage that 1 The 'Sedile' or 'Eletti.' 266 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON succeeded. Alarm was the prelude to violence, and violence to panic. Before long, the wretched Pignatelli made abortive advances to the French, and fled to Sicily, where he was imprisoned, but soon released. Save for the Lazzaroni, Naples was without authority or governance, and lay exposed a helpless prey to the common enemy. Two striking scenes happened within three weeks, and in that short but crowded period formed the denouements of two separate acts in the drama. Both of them passed under the patronage of St. Januarius, whose sanction, as declared by the Archbishop Zurlo, was always law to the Lazzaroni. They may serve as landmarks before a miniature of what led to them is attempted. And it may be at once said that the recital, based on many Italian authorities,^ accords with that of a contemporary who cannot be accused of partiality to the Lazzaroni. The future General Pepe was then a stripling of revolutionary enthusiasm, and one of the first recruits in the new and transitory 'civic guard.' On the night of January 15 a strange sight might have been viewed in the cathedral. The proud and brave Prince Moliterno, among the few distinguished in the late humiliat- ing campaign, and just chosen by the Lazzaroni as their chief, wended his way, barefooted, with bowed head and in penitential tatters, towards the glimmering altar, and on his knees besought leave of the venerable archbishop to harangue the people. In that procession of St. Januarius this grandee was the humblest and perhaps the saddest. The French general was already encamped before Capua. Moliterno rallied the Lazzaroni and assured them that he would lead them victorious against the foe. Four days after- wards they were betrayed to the patriots. Only a week later,^ and yet another and even stranger 1 Cf. inter alia Colletta's chronicle, Vincenzo Coco's and Nardini's con- temporary accounts, with other Neapolitan narratives ; Sacchinelli's Saggio, Helfert's Fabrizio Ruffo, Dumas' / Borboni di Napoli, and Benedetto Croce's Eleanora Fonseca di Pitnentel. The less valuable treatises on the Queen and Lady Hamilton, both by R. Palumbo and by A. Amabile, should also be consulted, if only for comparison. " The date is given by Pepe as January 24 ; but it is clear from Croce's excellent note embodying the contemporary authorities (Siudii Storici, I799» p. 89) that the event occurred on January 22. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 267 tableau happened in the same spot, for St. Januarius haunts the Neapolitan Revolution. A second solemn procession was formed, but by this time Championnet and his French troops had advanced to Naples. During the morning he had addressed the assembled people in the stately hall of San Lorenzo. His speech had been a string of fairweather promises, not one of which was kept. In the evening he steps cathedralward on one side of the archbishop, the clever general Macdonald and the mocking French commissary Abrial, on the other. The prelate holds aloft the sacred relics and the miraculous ewer. Priests, nobles, ' patriots," and a vast throng of Lazzaroni march in his wake. Suddenly a halt is called. The fate of Naples trembles in the balance. All depends on whether the blood of the saint shall announce by its liquefaction to his believers that Heaven favours the French Republic. Archbishop Zurlo raises the crystal basin. The saint's blood is obdurate, and still monarchical. Macdonald holds a concealed but significant pistol. Championnet whispers, ' Your miracle or your life ! ' The terrorised ecclesiastic announces the prodigy to the crowd. St. Januarius, then, is a democrat. The Laz- zaroni shout in their thousands, 'Long live St. Januarius! long live his republic ! ' The trick is palmed off success- fully on the credulous populace, and Championnet with Macdonald returns chuckling to St. Elmo.^ But miracle or no miracle, the end of this coarse jugglery was civil war. The two intervals must now be briefly supplied. On January 2 Pignatelli, under the sinister counsel of one Piazza,'-^ had already negotiated secretly with the enemy, by this time in possession of the chief provincial fortresses, as the 'patriots' were of the Neapolitan. The Lazzaroni, however, were staunch and unbribable, so that the French commissaries despatched next day by General Championnet were forced to return to Capua. The whole first episode is the triumph of the Lazzaroni. Reinforcements, under General Naselli, reached them from Palermo, and they attacked the 1 Cf. the many authorities cited by Henedetto Croce in his Sludii Stoici, pp. 91-93. 2 Cf. Ferdinand's instructions to Ruffo as to discriminating between the classes of Jacobin ofTenders, cited by Dumas, I Borboni di Napoli, vol. v. p. 239. — ' Piazza, who robbed Pignatelli ol his vicariate.' 268 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON quailing 'civic guard,' composed mainly of ' intellectuals ' and professionals. They seized the ' patriots' ' arms, the troops and the castles surrendered to them ; they opened the prisons and the galleys. They dismayed the 'patriots,' while the town shuddered under the licence of their patrols. On the whole, however, their moderation at first was extraordinary. Pepe, himself their captive, bears it especial witness in recounting how they disdained the money offered by his relations and released him unharmed. The Lazzaroni adored Prince Moliterno and his colleague in leadership, the Duke of Roccomana.^ They would gladly have died for these, as for the Duke of della Torre and Clemente Filomarino, their associate. But when they dis- covered that the leading magnates were already treating with the national foe and conspiring to yield General Championnet and his French troops admittance, their wrath knew no bounds. It was fanned by the priests, who voci- ferated against the Neapolitan foes of Naples from their pulpits. Even Moliterno and Roccomana were now sus- pected by their mob-followers of Jacobinism. In an access of mad resentment the Lazzaroni fired the Duke della Torre's palace, piled and burned its treasures, and dragged forth both him and the luckless Clemente Filomarino, to be roasted alive on the pyre. These atrocities culminated in the first scene that has just been described. The Lazzaroni's suspicions were well founded. On January 19, their hitherto trusted Roccomana himself betrayed them. By complot with the ' patriots ' he entered the fort of St. Elmo, and won over its commandant to his stratagem. The Lazzaroni garrison were sent out of their quarters, ostensibly to buy provisions for the approaching siege. On their return they were suddenly disarmed. The tricolor standard was hoisted as a signal to Championnet, encamped with his legions in the ' Largo della Pigna.' By Pepe's own confession, the Lazzaroni, deserted and defrauded, evinced a 'marvellous intrepidity.' Against desperate odds they stood their ground. Only a fortnight before, they had seen of what poor stuff the ' civic guard ' ' One of the Caracciolos. His brother, Nicolo Caracciolo, was Lazzaroni- Commandant of St. Elmo. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 269 had been made. But sturdier ' patriots ' than weak-kneed students now garrisoned St. Elmo. Overwhelming numbers soon closed the conflict. Meanwhile Championnet had waved his flag of truce in response to the three-coloured ensign, and while the Laz- zaroni hung back tricked and abashed, he entered the city. He at once made ' an affectionate discourse.' Everybody was promised everything: he had come for all their goods. The 'patriots' loved the people, and to himself both they and the Lazzaroni were brothers more in hearts than in arms. He was there to emancipate them all ; a golden age was at hand. His army was not French but Neapolitan. The Lazzaroni, gullible and volatile, believed him and cheered ; mob fury was allayed. 'God save San Gennaro!' burst from every lip. ' God save San Gennaro ! ' reiterated Championnet and Macdonald. Refore a day had passed they should see a sign from their saint. And then followed the solemn juggle of our second act. Relics were very helpful to the Directory, and for a moment those who had panted to exterminate the French welcomed them as brothers under the celestial portent. The ' Parthenopean Republic ' was proclaimed. The poets burst into song, the pamphleteers into doctrine, the journalists into execration of monarchy and eulogies of Reason and the Millennium. The printing-presses could hardly cope with the demand, and their muse — the tenth muse ' Ephemera ' — was the fair Eleonora Fonseca di Pimentel,^ who had been allowed to re- publicanise unmolested, and was now editress of the new and ebullient Monitore. Its amenities did not compliment the self-exiled court at Palermo. Of Nelson and the Hamiltons as yet there was no abuse. But Ferdinand was called a 'debased despot,' a 'caitiff" fugitive,' a 'dense imbecile,' and a 'stupid tyrant,' while, so far, Carolina fared better as 'that Amazon, his wife.' It was not long before the middle-class phase of the movement retaliated on the notables even more violently than on the sovereign. ' Duke' was derived from coachman (' a ducendo '), 'Count' from lackey ('a comi- tando') ; epithets were actually changing the nature of things. ' Even in December of the previous year the Portuguese ambassador at Naples had reported her as 'impudent.' 270 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON But Championnet's deeds were to refute his words. A few days of paper systems ^ were the parenthesis between a spurious peace and a civil war. A bad harvest served Championnet as excuse for dis- persing the Lazzaroni to their homesteads ; a bare treasury soon caused him to levy toll, A general insurrection ensued in the provinces, repressed by a fresh ' National Guard ' wearing the cockade and commanded by the once loyalist Count Ruvo. The cloven hoof of French ' emancipa- tion ' soon discovered itself. The Directory acquainted Championnet that, since 'right of conquest' had prevailed, the vanquished must pay for the luxury of defeat. Com- missary-General Faypoult was already on his road from Paris as collector of taxes by special appointment. His orders were to expropriate even the palaces and museums, to loot the very treasures of Pompeii. The General himself kicked at such exactions. He protested — and was recalled to Paris. General Macdonald, who, as creature of the Directory, had perhaps anticipated his own advantage, promptly stepped into his shoes. The Directory forwarded more ' commissaries,' with orders from the * patriotic associations ' to pillage the provinces and to ' dictate Re- publican laws.' The French troops dared not linger too long at Naples, and eventually their whole garrison only amounted to two thousand five hundred.- But their brief sojourn was long enough to denude the city. They were billeted in Sir William's houses, among the rest, and did infinite damage to his treasures. Emma — his ' Grecian,' as her husband delighted to call her — rued the vandalism which now terrorised the town. The lack of the Parthenopean Republic was an organised army with a capable leader. Calabria and Apulia were at this very moment overrun by Corsican adventurers, one of whom assumed the title of Prince Francis, and pretended that he was the lawful heir to the throne. 1 'Committees of authorities' were constituted — 'interior,' 'exterior,' and 'central.' Departments of Justice, Police, Fixiance, and Legislature were set up in a twinkling. - Morrison MS. 381, Sir W. Hamilton to C. Greville, Palermo, April 8, 1799. The 'civic Jacobins 'amounted to 20,000. The Lazzaroni were still undivided in loyalty. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 271 It was at this juncture that the King designated Cardinal Ruffo his Vicar-General in place of Pignatelli, the absconder, and invested him with supreme military command, although, at the same time, he emphatically bound him not to exceed a suppression of the rising, without previous consultation with his master ; nor was he on any account at any time to treat with the rebels.^ It should be particularly noted at this his first intro- duction on to our scene, that neither Lady Hamilton nor Nelson ever believed in his straightforwardness ;2 and his duplicity in June was amply to justify their discernment. This singular priest-militant, whose rugged hardihood concealed astute subtlety,^ and who was at once Legate and Lazzarone, landed on the Calabrian coast to proclaim ' a holy cause.' He was the royal Robin Hood, while his Friar Tuck was the Sicilian brigand, Fra Diavolo. His cardinalate alienated from the ' patriot' cause many of the priests, who by this time had joined hands with the in- surgents ; for they could never forget how the Queen had once withstood the Pope. The raising of his standard, and the co-operation of the Russian and Turkish frigates from Corfu, soon forced the French into an active provincial cam- paign. The Bourbonites had secured the fastness of Andia. The French stormed and took it. Their maltreatment of young girls had rendered them abominable even in the eyes of their better ' patriot ' allies, one of whom on this occasion, Prince Carafa, heading the 'Neapolitan legion,' chivalrously rescued a girl victim from their brutality. A long sequel of sickening butcheries on both sides followed. 1 Between April and June Ruffo received constant and binding instructions from both the King and the Queen. He was to use great discrimination ; he was to ' stamp out the noxious herbs which are poisoning the others.' He was on no account to treat with the rebels, and he was to remember the Lazzaroni's proverb, ' Sticks and cakes make good children.' Cf. the documents quoted by Gutteridge in his excellent Nelson and the Neapolitan Jacobins, App. pp. 40-45, and especially the Queen's letter to Ruffo of May 23 {Neapolitan Archives, v. 266 ; Dumas, v. 168) : ' The King must, as a Christian and the father of his people, pardon his infamous, wicked and ungrateful subjects, on whom he h.is bestowed so many benefits, but he must not enter into a bargain or armistice,' etc. 2 Cf. Add. MS. 34,912, ff. 3, 4. ^ Nelson called him 'a swelled-up, well-fed priest.' Fabrizio Ruffo was born in 1744, and lived till 1827. His cardinalate dated only from 1794. 272 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON The French and the ' patriots ' shot down even old women. Rufifo and his savage bandits gave no quarter; yet they were welcomed as deliverers from rapine and murder. One by one the hill-strongholds, that France had taken, were seized by Rufifo for the King. By June the Republic had become limited afresh to Naples, and 'patriot' Naples itself smarted under the greedy despotism of 'commissary' Abrial, who now reigned in Macdonald's shoes, and chastised them with scorpions where the others had chas- tised them with whips. The Royalist counter-stroke, with Ruffo for instrument and a new 'extraordinary' tribunal as executive,^ was long kept a profound secret by the council, but it was divulged to the Jacobins through a remarkable woman — Luisa Molines Sanfelice. She and her cousin-husband had long before been implicated in treason, banished, and at length pardoned. They were now living under the royal aegis in retirement ; but an unhappy passion for an Italianised Englishman, Baccher (Baker), involved the wife once more in sedition. To him she betrayed the King's commission, and he in his turn handed the secret on to Vincenzo Coco, the Jacobin historian and renegade who afterwards attached himself to the Bourbons. ' Cherchez lafenime,' indeed, is an adage exemplified throughout a rebellion abounding in 'the rage of the vulture, the love of the turtle ' — ' Oh wild as the accents of lovers' farewell. Are the hearts which they bear, and the tales which they tell.' In September 1800 this Luisa, well surnamed 'the hapless,' was to be respited by the Queen's compassion on the eve of her death-sentence. The King, however, in defiance both of his wife and of the amnesty which he had then solemnly proclaimed, refused to commute the sentence. Except for Ruffo's commission, we have been too long absent from Palermo. Nelson's first thoughts were for Egypt, and Malta,^ the 1 'A few selected and safe public servants 'to try 'the most guilty.' Cf Gulteridge, pp. I33-35- 2 Cf. his letters on this question to Acton quoted by Gutteridge in his Nelson and the Neapolitan Jacobins (App. Nos. vi., X., xn., xxi., xxiv.), from the TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 273 Neapolitan succours for which continued most unsatisfactory. Now, as a few months later, his endeavour was ' so to divide ' his * forces, that a/i' might ' have security.' ^ To Ball, with characteristic generosity, he entrusted the Maltese opportunities of distinction. He was still uneasy and un- well ; and he was deeply dispirited, after his recent strain, at the home-slight offered him by the appoint- ment of Sidney Smith to a superior command, with Lord Grenville's orders for his obedience, though on this point Lord Spencer soon reassured him. His stepson's ill-behaviour, though he excused it to his wife, proved a fresh source of annoyance. His Fanny, too, began to wonder at his neglect of home affairs. ' If I have the happiness,' he answered, ' of seeing their Sicilian Majesties safe on the throne again, it is probable I shall still be home in the summer. Good Sir William, Lady Hamilton and myself are the mainsprings of the machine which manages what is going on in this country. We are all bound to England, when we can quit our posts with propriety.' - The ' we ' and the ' all ' must have set her wondering the more. The freedom of Palermo, among other honours, was conferred on him in March, but the unfolding tragedy of Naples added to his general discouragement. He was preoccupied in many directions. The establishment of (in his own phrase) ' the Vesuvian Republic,' Pignatelli's armistice with the French, ' in which the name of the King was not mentioned,' the surrender of Leghorn to the French, boding a Tuscan revolution, incensed him as much as it did the royal family.^ Sicily, he thought, would soon be Stale Archives of Naples. Nelson deprecated the interference of Russia. His opinion that, under the then conditions, Malta was chiefly important because the French must never have it, and that Sardinia was a far better strategical station for Britain, is familiar. While vigilant over Malta, and attending to Minorca, his chief care was to prevent the French fleet from reaching any port in the dominion of the two Sicilies. Cf. the new letter to Sir James Si. Clair Erskine, of July 23, 1799, excerpted in the Appendix, Part ll. E. (i). ' Cf. the new and important letter to Sir James St. Clair Erskine of August 2, 1799, excerpted in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905, and given in the Appendix, Part 11. E. (2). - Laughlon's Despatches, pp. 180-81. ' Cf. the Queen's letter to Emma of January 19, beginning, ' I am more dead than alive,' ciled by Pcttigicw, vol. i. p. 201 ; and Add. MS. 34,710, f. 16, Nelson to their excellencies Sir W. S. and J. Smith, Palermo, .\pril 1799. S 274 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON endangered. The French successes at Capua, their in- stallation at Naples, so affected him, that he offered to vindicate the royal honour himself.^ ' I am ready,' he wrote in mid-March, ' to assist in the enterprise. I only wish to die in the cause.' ' Jacobinism/ he repeated, was ' terrorism.' - The agreeable surprise of General Sir Charles Stuart's arrival in Sicily with a thousand troops, that secured Messina against invasion, relieved and elated both him and the court. He even believed — for his wishes ever fathered his thoughts — that these might expel the French from Naples. France, indeed, was on his nerves and brain. So soon as he learned that the hero of Acre had given passports freeing the remnant of the French fleet off Syria and Egypt, he was beside himself: at any moment a new squadron might effect a junction with the Spanish frigates and bear down on the two Sicilies. By the close of March he had already despatched the truculent and some- times ferocious Troubridge to Procida for the blockade of Naples. Much was hoped, too, from the co-operation of the Russian and Turkish fleets. It was quite possible, even now, that Britain might restore the Neapolitan monarch to his people.^ And in the meantime, with eyes alert to ensure preparedness in every direction, he mediated with the Bey of Tunis and freed Mohammedan slaves. Nor below this tide of varying emotions is an under- current lacking of inward conflict. In his own heart a miniature revolution was also in process. The spell of Lady Hamilton was over him, and he struggled against the devious promptings of his heart. To protect Naples and Sicily against France had been the declared policy of his Government ; to exterminate French predominance was his own chief ambition ; he chafed against the survival of a single ship. *I knowl he was soon to write, 'it is His Majesty's pleasure that I should pay such attention to the safety of His Sicilian Majesty and his kingdom that nothing shall induce me to risk those objects of my special ^ Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 220-23. ^ Cf. Gutteridge, App. Nos. xvii., xxi., March 12 and May 8. ' Morrison MS. 384, April 28, 1799. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 275 care.'^ Every public motive riveted him to the spot where fas- cination lured and tempted. It is a mistake to imagine that Emma held him from duty ; all his duties were performed, and to her last moment she protested to those most in his confidence, and best able to refute her if she erred, that her influence never tried to detain him.- It was duty" that actuated him — duty, it is true, that jumped with inclination, and fatally fastened him to her side. Such was his health, that he had desired to quit the Mediterranean altogether.* Away from the Mediterranean coasts, he could have steeled himself at any rate to absence, if not to forgetfulness. In the very centre of the seaboard that embodied the true interests of his country, and to which his instructions tied him, he was in hourly neighbourhood of his idol. She interpreted,^ translated, cheered, and companioned him. She contrasted with the soullessness of his wife. She was often his as well as her husband's amanuensis.^ She drank in every word of patriotic fervour, and redoubled it. Her courage spoke to his ; so did her compassion and energy. Together they received the Maltese deputies. Together they listened, in disguise,^ to the talk of Sicilian taverns. Together they 1 Cf. his letter to Sir James Erskine of July 23, 1799, otherwise excerpted in Appendix, Part 11. E. (2). - Cf. her remarkable new letter to Dr. Scott of September 7, 1S06, tran- scribed in the Appendix, Part 11. C. (3) b. ^ How little Nelson at this time was neglecting his duties is shown by his despatches to Lord St. Vincent of May 12. Cf. Laughton, p. 192. 'My reason,' he wrote on May 25, ' for remaining in Sicily, is the covering of the blockade of Naples, and the certainty of preserving Sicily in case of an attack. I intend to continue the Malta blockade unless Ball has not surrendered it,' or 'the poor islanders themselves.' — Laughton's Despatches, p. 195. ^ Cf. Hamilton's letter to Grevillc of January 25, 1800, Morrison MS. 444. ' Without me Lord Nelson would not stay here, and without Lord Nelson Their Sicilian Majesties would think themselves undone.' ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 3S4, Hamilton to Greville, Palermo, April 28, 1799. ' Lord Nelson, for want of language and experiences of this court and country, without Emma and me would be at the greatest loss every moment.' • Cf. Morrison MS. 376, February 9, 1799, Nelson to Ball, where Emma herself adds the postscript, ' I have only time to say, my dear friend, that Sir William and I shall be most happy to sec you. Make haist. Do, or else enirc nous. Fate will carry me down. I cannot enter now into the false politics of this country. A ora, ever yours.' ' It was said that she dressed up as a midshipman for these expeditions, and I am told that a portrait of her in this attire exists. 276 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON also went on errands of mercy.^ From the Queen she carried him perpetual information and praise. Through her and her husband he was able to work on Acton. Every British officer that landed with advices or despatches, every friendly though foreign crew, was welcomed at the table over which Emma presided. No veriest trifle that could assist them ever escaped her. Indeed, her lavish hospi- tality- and the noisy heartiness of the coming and going guests oppressed the Ambassador, who sighed on the eve of superannuation for home and quiet, for the excitements of Christie's, and the fisherman's tranquil diplomacy. It was not the toils of the huntress that ensnared Nelson. It was Britain that demanded his vigilance and enchained him here; while for him, more and more, Britain's 'guardian angel ' was becoming Emma. Imploring Sir Alexander Ball in February to return from Malta, she had avowed a foreboding that ' Fate ' might ' carry ' her ' down.' ^ A great shock had been followed by a great fear. The main body of the French army had gone, but the Neapol- itan rebellion, if the French fleet managed to reach and rally it, might still engulf them all. Gallo was again playing the King off against the Queen. Who knew what might happen in this conspiracy of gods and men ? And when she presaged some fatality, may she not also have pondered whither she herself was now drifting? The doom of Paolo and Francesca may well have been within the range of her Italian reading. To the com- plexity of her feelings I shall revert when I come to the events of a month afterwards. Only two years later she and Nelson were thus to poeticise the affection that was now ripening : — ^ Cf. especially the case of the poor old blind septuagenarian implicated in conspiracy, but pardoned through Emma's influence : see Nelson's letter to Acton, given by Gutteridge among his documents, No. xiv. ; and a further instance, where Nelson says 'our hearts bleed,' cf. ibid. xill. - Cf. Lord St. Vincent's letter of thanks to her regarding Lock's aristocratic wife and others, and Lady Betty Foster's, Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 205 ; from Captains Ball and Dixon, and Commodore Coffin, together with others, ibid. pp. 209, 210. •* Morrison MS. 376, alrcaviy cited on the preceding page. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 277 Lord Nelson to his Guardian Angel. ' From my best cable tho' I 'm forced to part, I leave my anchor in my Angel's heart. Love, like a pilot, shall the pledge defend, And for a prong his happiest quiver lend.' Answer of Lord Nelson's Guardian Angel ' Go where you list, each thought of Emma's soul Shall follow you from Indus to the Pole : East, West, North, South, our minds shall never part ; Your Angel's loadstone shall be Nelson's heart. Fare7uell! and o'er the wide, wide sea Bright glory's course pursue, And adverse winds to love and me Prove fair to fame and you. And when the dreaded hour of battle's nigh, Your Angel's heart, which trembles at a sigh. By your superior danger bolder grown, Shall dauntless place itself before your own. Happy, thrice happy, should her fond heart prove — A shield to Valour, Constancy, and Love! ' But a fresh influence was also, may be, about to steal into her being. To the pinch of adversity and her misgivings for the Queen she loved, was now being added the stress of a passion half realised but hard to resist. She would not have been the emotional woman that she was, if in some shape, however dimly, religion as consoler had not whis- pered in the recesses of her heart. Hitherto among her immediate surroundings only Nelson could have been called really religious. He was a strong Protestant. But as she beheld the Queen comforted by an older ritual and a communion less severe, it may have crossed her mind that the ceremonies which she had mocked as supersti- tions held in them some rare power of healing. Southern religion thrives on its adopted and hybrid forms, as to this day is attested by Sicilian peasants hugging the image of their swarthy saint ; Sicilian reapers chanting their weird litany to the sinking sun ; Sicilian farmers meting out their harvested grain by their image of the rosaried * A facsimile of these verses of April 1801 is given l)y I'eltigrew, vol. ii. p. 17. 278 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Madonna. There was at this time at Palermo an Abb6 Campbell, who had followed the fugitives thitherward.^ Twelve years before, he had been chaplain to the Neapolitan Embassy in London, and is said to have been the priest who secretly united the future George IV. to Mrs. Fitzher- bert. He was a genial soul, in the world but not wholly of it, musical and romantic. He remained constant to Emma throughout her chequered fortunes, and in future years he often crosses her path again and Nelson's.^ One may guess that through him first arose those promptings that eventually made Emma a proselyte to the faith that, perhaps above others, openly welcomes the strayed and the fallen. Troubridge girded to his work as Jacobin-killer in grim earnest. The Governor of Procida,^ its peasants and Ischia's, were loyal to the core. The English sailor was acclaimed by the people as a deliverer from a faction ; and he was not over-squeamish in his task of quelling what Lord Bristol termed to Hamilton ' that gang of thieves, pickpockets, highwaymen, cut-throats and cut-purses called the French Republic.''* ' Oh ! ' wrote Troubridge to Nelson, ' how I long to have a dash at the thieves.' And again, ' The villainy we must combat is great indeed. I have just flogged a rascal for loading bread with sand. The loaf was hung round his neck in sight of the people.' The * trials ' of rebels he admits to be ' curious,' as the culprits were fre- quently ' not present.' He actually apologised to Nelson, on the score of hot weather, for not sending him a Jacobin's head ; with charming pleasantry he calls the donor ' a jolly fellow.' The ' rascally nobles, tired of standing as common sentinels,' confessed that sheer discomfort had loyalised them.** Even here Lady Hamilton's energy was conspicuous. Through Nelson she communicated constant advice con- cerning the measures to be taken and the characters of the ^ Cf. Emma's letter to Greville of February 1800, Nelson Letters ^ vol. i. p. 200. - Cf. several later letters in the Morrison MS., one of them not long before the close. Nelson also mentions him to Emma when he was once more at Naples in 1803-4. ^ Don Michel de Curtis. "• Morrison MS. 383. * Cf. Troubridge's despatch to Nelson of April 25, 1799. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 279 inhabitants.^ She had actually and with difficulty forwarded the King's instructions to Pignatelli. The bearer, Trou- bridge's servant, was loaded by this pardoned turncoat with irons, and Troubridge naturally exclaimed that when the King's turn came there would be heavy scores to settle.^ He was 'mad' at the infamous conduct of the officers despatched to him by the King. They were doubtless sympathisers with the rebels, and they were court-martialled accordingly.^ But the most important statement of his despatches to Nelson relates to Caracciolo, who had been obsequious and fawning at Palermo, and had therefore been trusted to return home as a reorganiser of the navy. ' I am now satisfied,' declares Troubridge, 'that he is a Jacobin. He came in the gunboat to Castellamare himself and spirited up the Jacobins.' By April 12 Troubridge had reduced the Neapolitan islands. Prospects at last looked brighter. Ruffo had nearly sub- dued the provinces, and the Austrians at length,* in formal alliance with Naples, Russia, and the Porte, had rejoiced the Queen by their victory at Padua. It was commemorated by a salute from the British fleet. The Bishop of Derry — now at Augsburg — communicated the news to Emma in an amusing letter, which opens with her own favourite 'Hip, hip, hip, huzza, huzza, huzza !'^ Ball was now pushing forward the Maltese operations, while Duckworth had been active near the Balearic islands. On every point of the Mediterranean compass Nelson kept his watch- ful eye. But for him the Mediterranean was mainly a theatre for the as yet invisible French frigates. The spectre of that squadron haunted him by night and day ; he han- kered after the moment when he could re-attack it. It was for him what Godoiphin was for Charles the Second — never in and never out of the way. Early in May, Espoir, a private messenger, brought Nelson the glad tidings that on April 28 the French fleet had at length quitted Brest, He at once concerted plans ' Laughton's Despatches^ p. 193. Cf. the letters cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 210-15. ^ Laughton's Despatches, p. 194. ' Nelson agreed. He called the Admiral Vauch 'that hog.' Cf. Gutteridge. ■• May 19. ^ Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 215. 28o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON with Lord St. Vincent, Troubridge, and Duckworth. It was said to consist at most of nineteen ships and ten frigates or sloops. Its destination was unknown. By May its junction with the ships of Spain had been notified.^ Nelson made sure that the two Sicilies were intended, and that France still hoped by one decisive stroke to end at once monarchy and independence. He pressed Lord St. Vincent on no account to remove him from the impending action, wherever it might take place. He feared that St. Vincent's failing health, which necessitated his resignation, might help the French to elude the commander's vigilance. In the end, elude it they did. He resolved to cruise off Maritimo as the likeliest point of sight, and on May 12 he was on board the Va7i- guard. But contrary winds intervened, and kept him waiting for Duckworth's vessels till the 20th, to his keen vexation. His absence heightened the attachment with which he had inspired the Hamiltons. ' I can assure you," wrote Hamilton amid the festivities that even at such a moment celebrated the birth of a son to the Imperial House of Austria, ' I can assure you that neither Emma nor I knew how much we loved you until this separation, and we are convinced your Lordship feels the same as we do.'^ And on other occasions Sir William writes to Nelson most intimately and admiringly, dating one of his letters ' near winding-up- watch hour.' ^ Two of his three remaining letters to Emma, before he started, open a little window both on to the interior of the Hamiltons' manage and of his own heart. On the 1 2th he writes : — ' My dear Lady Hamilton, — Nobody writes so well. Accept my sincere thanks for your kind letter. Pray, say not you write ill ; for if you do, I will say what your good- ness sometimes told me — "You lie!"^ I can read and ^ Laughton's Despatches^ p. 192. 2 Hamilton to Acton, May 27, 1799, transcribed in Rose's Diaries and Correspondence, vol. i. p. 224. ^ Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. pp. 192-96. * With this token of their present intimacy should be compared another, though slightly later, stray expression on the lips, this time, of Nelson, to be found in the Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 19 — ' Lady Hamilton put the candlestick on my writing-table.' TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 281 perfectly understand every word you write. We drank your and Sir William's health. Troubridge, Louis, Hallowell and the new Portuguese captain dined here. I shall soon be at Palermo, for this business must very soon be settled. . . . I am pleased with little Mary : ^ kiss her for me. I thank all the house for their regard. God bless you all ! I shall send on shore if fine to-morrow ; for the feluccas are going to leave us, and I am sea-sick. I have got the piece of wood for the tea-chest : it shall soon be sent. Pray, pre- sent my humble duty and gratitude to the Queen.' On the 19th — * To tell you how dreary and uncomfortable the Vanguard appears, is only telling you what it is to go from the plea- santest society to a solitary cell, or from the dearest friends to no friends. I am now perfectly the great man — not a creature near me. From my heart I wish myself the little man again ! You and good Sir William have spoiled me for any place but with you. I love Mrs. Cadogan. You cannot conceive what I feel when I call you all to my remembrance, even to Mira,^ do not forget your faithful and affectionate, Nelson.'^ Indeed, all these days he was in constant correspondence with the Hamiltons.'* On May 25, so great was his admira- tion for them, that he drew up his first codicil— a precursor of many to come — in their favour. To Emma he bequeathed 'the nearly round box' set with diamonds, the gift of the Sultan's mother ; to her husband fifty guineas for a memorial ring.^ For his risks were now great ; he carried his life in his hands. The French contingent should still be found : his efforts were bent on more ships, that success might be assured when the clash of arms must recur. Up to May 28, when he again landed at Palermo, he was .still without sight, without result, though not wholly without effect. He resolved to withdraw some ships from Malta and concentrate his whole forces. On June 8, as Rear- Admiral of the Red, he had shifted from the Vanguard to the ^ Probably one of Grafer's daughters ; another was Emma's namesake. Sir William and Emma harboured a tribe of dependants in their house. - A servant, ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. pp. 7-10. * Cf. Morrison MS. 3S6-395. ^ Ibid. 391. 282 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Foudroyant. By June 12 he heard of Lord St. Vincent's in- tention to return home, and his replacement by Lord Keith, with genuine distress. ' If you are sick/ he wrote to him, ' I will fag for you, and our dear Lady Hamilton will nurse you with the most affectionate attention. Good Sir William will make you laugh with his wit and inexhaustible pleasantry. . . . Come then to your sincere friends.'^ Still not a glimpse of the French fleet. But large issues were pending. The very day before the date of this invita- tion to his commander, the Queen herself addressed to him a pleading letter. The state of Naples, the uncertainty as to the enemy's movements, had decided her on a definite plan. An expedition, forestalling the arrival of the Gallic squadron, might strike a bloodless blow. The bloodshed even of her enemies was far, she urged, from her thoughts. The heir-apparent, as representative of his family, would accompany him and chafe the embers of Neapolitan loyalty into a blaze. 'Other duties' obliged her to remain at Palermo. He would earn the ' sincere and profound grati- tude' of his 'devoted friend.'- At the same time — and this is the key to after events — Ferdinand himself con- ferred on him the fullest powers. In every sense of the word he was to be his plenipotentiary.^ Already a month before, Nelson had despatched Foote with a commission to reduce the mainland, as Troubridge had reduced the islands. Foote, Thurn, and Governor Curtis had already issued their proclamation of a Neapolitan blockade, and had bidden the insurgents take advantage of clemency while there was yet time.* Had they only complied, a chapter of misery would have been avoided ; but, divided as they were, they still trusted to the invisible French fleet. Short shrift was to be granted to rebels and traitors. Only the misguided and the innocent were to be spared. Already Foote reported that thirteen Jacobins had been hung. The Queen poured out her renewed hopes and prayers to Lady Hamilton. Emma was all devotion and excitement, yet misgivings 1 Cited Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 227. - Cited ibid., p. 229, and cf. Eg. MS. 1616, f. 23. * Nicolas' Despatches, iii. pp. 491 et seq. Gutteridge, p. 62. * Add. MS. 34,911, f. 267. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 283 blent with her hopes. Who could foretell the issues? After all, the moment must decide. And who could foresee her own part in this great struggle ? Out of a narrow room she had been lifted into the spheres. Even as she pondered, Greville — Greville of the suburban 'retreat' — was writing to her husband that the eyes of Europe were now fixed on Italy. He had already been trumpeting her own achievements to the Prince of Wales : ' Many and all' admired her much; she had been ' instru- mental in good.' ' Tell Lady Hamilton,' was his message, ' with my kindest remembrances, that all her friends love her more than ever, and those who did not know her admire her.'^ Greville, then, had at length learned to know her worth. His * crystals' would hardly have weighed in the scale if, thirteen years ago, his appraisement had been one of insight. Nelson responded to the Queen with all his heart. His zeal quickened with uncertainty. Lady Hamilton was the Queen's friend, and Lady Hamilton's friends were his. Maria Carolina was * a great woman,' and greatness was his affinity. He thought in dominants — the predominance of his country ; and Naples loyalised would signify France quelled. Ruffo was fast advancing from the provinces against the forsworn city. The Neapolitan Jacobins were on tenterhooks for even an inkling of the French squadron, their deliverer. What Nelson dreaded was that the Franco- Hispanian force might be joined by ships from Toulon. In that event he would be fighting against heavy odds ; and his ' principle,' as he afterwards assured Lord Spencer, ' was to assist in driving the French to the devil, and in restoring peace and happiness to mankind.'^ And still of that veiled flotilla not a token. It was reported as bearing on the Italian coast. Nelson had been eager to set off within about a week of the Queen's appeal. That appeal decided him to wait one week longer. Maria Carolina was impatient for 'a second Aboukir Bay,'"' and for such a stroke reinforcements were ^ Morrison MS. 396, Greville to Hamilton, June S, 1799- ■^ Cited by Harrison, vol. ii. p. 135. ^ Eg. MS. 1616, f. 29, June 18, 1799. 284 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON needed. On June 12 he and Sir William were still concert- ing their plans. ^ The Queen now used the Hamiltons for her purposes and urged them to fasten her champion's resolve by accompanying him. Emma was ill, worn with inward struggle and suspense ; her patroness was perpetually and anxiously inquiring after her health, Sir William was almost prostrate with indisposition. In his language, Emma 'had phantoms in her fertile brain that oppressed her . . . too much Sensibility' ; in Nelson's she was ' fretting ' her 'guts to fiddle-strings.'- Emma shrank from the turbid scenes that she would be called upon to interpret and to en- counter ; she also dimly dreaded the results of constant association with her hero. But her knowledge of men, circumstances, and language would be indispensable on this fateful errand, and already on June 12 she thus, as Queen's advocate, besought Nelson : — ' Thursday evening, June 12. ' I have been with the Queen this evening. She is very miserable, and says, that although the people of Naples are for them in general, yet things will not be brought to that state of quietness and subordination till the Fleet of Lord Nelson appears off Naples. She therefore begs, intreats, and conjures you, my dear Lord, if it is possible, to arrange matters so as to be able to go to Naples. Sir William is writing for General Acton's answer. For God's sake con- sider it, and do ! We will go with you, if you will come and fetch us, ' Sir William is ill ; I am ill : it will do us good. God bless you ! Ever, ever, yours sincerely.'^ The Queen's insistence, Emma's mediation, permeate every line. Just after this manner, some thirteen years earlier, the mimic Muse had echoed Greville in her answer to the invitation that first lured her to Naples. ^ Cf. a letter of June 12 from the Queen to Emma, cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 231. - Cf. Gutteridge, pp. 102, 103. — These letters are a few days later, but refer to this week. On June 11 the Queen wrote to Emma that she hoped for a second English Mediterranean squadron to blockade Naples ' on all sides,' and bring the insurgents without bloodshed \.o their 'duty.' — Eg. MS. i6l6, f. 23. ^ Nelson Letters., vol. i. p. 185. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 285 Her heart was heavy with forebodings. She would have much to do and perhaps to suffer. She was charged with a triple task : to rehabilitate the Queen, to single out the traitors from the true amongst the notables, to assist Nelson in his 'campaign.'^ She knew that the risk would be great and the nervous strain severe. Privately, as well as publicly, she feared the uncertain upshot. Her phases of mind and mood and memory all joined in bodying forth the future. For thirteen years not a breath of scandal had sullied her name. She had long, indeed, been held up as a pattern of conjugal virtue. Yet Josiah Nisbet, the boy whom both she and his stepfather had generously helped and forgiven, far more and oftener indeed than his own mother, was already tattling to that mother of the Calypso who was detaining Ulysses. Hitherto she could honestly acquit herself of the imputation. So much that was glorious had happened in so few months, that her tender friendship had been absorbed by memories and reveries of glory. And for her, glory meant honour. This is the clue to her nature. To honour she fancied that she, like Nelson, was dedicating existence. And now, even while she justified to herself the chances in relation to her own husband by the thought of a past debt amply repaid, she paused on the threshold of the irreparable, as the pale face of Nelson's unknown wife rose up before her. She had been only stiff and condescending to Emma's warm-hearted advances immediately after the battle of the Nile.- Was this cold partner jealous then, and spiteful without an overt cause? Let her covert suspicions dare their worst ; Emma would brave them out. And another and nobler feeling mixed with her agitations. She was quitting her much- loved mother, by whom she had always stood loyally, even when most to her disadvantage ; by whom she was always to stand ; whom, if that French navy fell in with them, she might possibly never see again. ' My mother,' she wrote 1 Cf. Morrison MS. 411, 417, Emma's letters to Grevillc of July 19 and August 5 respectively. '^ By Nelson's request she had forwarded a cap to Lady Hamilton in a note of liare civility. Her handwriting, it may he added, is remarkahly like Lady By run's. 286 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON when all was over, ' is at Palermo, longing to see her Emma. You can't think how she is loved and respected by all. She has adopted a mode of living that is charming. She has good apartments in our house, always lives with us, dines, etc. etc. Only when she does not like it (for ex- ample at great dinners) she herself refuses, and has always a friend to dine with her ; and the Signora Madre dell' Ambasciatrice is known all over Palermo, the same as she was at Naples. The Queen has been very kind to her in my absence, and went to see her, and told her she ought to be proud of her glorious and energick daughter, that has done so much in these last suffering months.'^ Other chords in her being might be snapped asunder and replaced, but at least this pure note of daughterly devotion would never fail. And if Emma was at once happy and tormented, so now was Nelson. He was racked alike by hopes and fears. His love for her was gradually vanquishing his allegiance to his wife, and his heart was fast triumphing over his conscience. He had not yet persuaded himself that his love accorded with the scheme divine, that his formal marriage was no longer consecrated, and that to profane it was not to profane a sacrament. It was barely a year since Captain Hallowell had presented him with the coffin framed out of his Egyptian spoils — a ineme7ito mori indeed. Everyone remembers the strain of dejection about this date in his home letters, which have been constantly cited from Southey." 'There is,' he wrote, 'no true happiness in this life, and in my present state I could quit it with a smile.' He protested the same to his old friend Davison, adding that his sole wish was to 'sink with honour into the grave.' On the one side beckoned the French enemy and Emma, on the other the offended Fanny, his pious father, and the call of God. While, however, both the cause of his heart and the voice 1 Morrison MS. 417, Lady Hamilton to Greville, August 5, 1799. Mrs. Cadogan had now her own secretary. Cf. Tyson's letter to Lady H. of March 23, 1800, transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 319. ' Life of Nelson, p. 197 (edition 1901). TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 287 that it loved were thus pleading with its doubts and anxieties, vexation also spurred him into irretrievable decision. Lord Keith's interfering summons to Minorca had reached him.^ These orders he resented and dis- obeyed, as he had so often disobeyed unwarrantable orders before. Minorca was a bagatelle compared with the big issues now at stake, and Minorca, moreover, was by this time comparatively safe. ' I will take care,' he was soon to write, ' that no superior fleet shall annoy it, but many other countries are entrusted to my care.' ^ Jacobinism, the French fleet — these were the dangers for Britain and for Europe. His reply was that the ' best defence' was to 'place himself alongside the French.' He appealed from Lord St. Vincent's meddlesome successor to Lord St. Vincent. * I cannot think myself justified in exposing the world — 1 may almost say — to be plundered by these miscreants . . . I trust your lordship will not think me wrong ... for agonised indeed was the mind of your lordship's faithful and affectionate servant' These were no sophistries, and 'wrong' St. Vincent certainly never held him. It was not long before he learned that Lord Keith himself had sailed in search of the fleet which that blunderer never found. Nelson still believed Naples to be that fleet's objective, and in this conviction many private advices supported him. But more than all, his resolve to vindicate royalty against Jacobinism was strengthened by the fact that at this very moment his own, and Emma's, grave suspicions concerning Cardinal Ruffb's pretended loyalty were being strikingly confirmed by new and startling rumours ; while at the same time another Austrian success at Spezzia had fortified ^ Lord Keith's letter is dated June 6, Nelson's reply June i6. 2 Cf. the excerpt in Sotheby's catalogue of July 8, 1905, from Nelson's letter to Erskine so late as August 2 of 1799. But even on July 23 he had written to the same correspondent that as Admiral Duckworth was sailing that day for Minorca, he trusted that the island would be 'perfectly safe,' and that nothing in his power ' should be wanting to give you naval security, as far as other very important objects will allow.' On July 19 he had actually sent part of his own squadron to Lord Keith. ' If the Dons should gel over to your island, I am sure you will give a good account of them, for they are a miserable set of soldiers,' he assured Erskine. Cf. two other excerpts of the above dates in the same catalogue. 288 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON afresh the cause of loyalty. He discerned the moment for reclaiming the hotbed of Jacobinism. His mind was fixed. He would go. On June 13, then, he embarked the young Crown Prince in the Foudroyant and hastened off once again, while the Hamiltons apparently remained behind. The King had forbidden the Queen to revisit the scene of disgrace, and reserved his own appearance for the necessity which Ruffo's double-dealing, that he still half-discredited, might entail.^ But on learning definite news near Maritimo that the French fleet in full force had at length got out of Toulon, and was now actually bound for the south coast. Nelson at once tacked, and once more returned to Palermo to gain time for Ball's and Duckworth's further reinforcements. He arrived the next day, and, to the Queen's infinite surprise, landed her son, who was at once taken by her to his father at Colli.- Though Nelson still feared for Sicily,^ he had hoped to have re-departed immediately, but calms and obstacles intervened. Now that he was certain of his mission, he welcomed the company and invaluable aid of the Hamil- tons, whose entreaties had overborne his consideration for their health and safety. Yet even now he would not receive them until he had made a fourth cruise of hurried survey and final preparation to the islands of Maritimo and Ustica. He started, therefore, on June 16, but five mornings afterwards he again heard from Hamilton the momentous certainty that Ruffo had dared to conclude a definite armistice with the Neapolitan rebels;* while he also learned that the Jacobins were bragging that his return to Palermo was due to fear of the French fleet.^ The perfidy of the Cardinal and the insol- ence of the rebels allowed not a moment to be lost. Forth- ^ Eg. MS. 1616, f. 27. — In this note the Queen inquires most affectionately about her health. ' Take care of your dear self,' etc. " Cf. the Queen's letter to Lady H., Eg. MS. 1616, f. 27. ^ The Queen, writing to Ruffo on June 14, observes, ' The squadron was superb, beautiful, imposing.' She ascribes its unexpected and disappointing return to Nelson's necessity for guarding Sicily also, since ' the French fleet had left Toulon and was heading south of Italy.' ^ Cf. Hamilton's letter to Nelson, Add. MS. 34,912, ff. 3, 4 : 'Your Lord- ship sees that what we suspected of Cardinal Ruffo has proved true,' etc. — Hamilton to Nelson, June 17, 1799. ^ Nelson to Duckworth, June 21. — Laughton, p. 197. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 289 with he left his squadron once more and reached Palermo in the afternoon, A council was immediately held. Ruffo, who, despite the despatches heralding Nelson's voyage, had probably counted on his many false starts, received his last peremptory warning;^ the Hamiltons, in the full flush of excitement, were conveyed on board the Foiidroyant ; Nelson, still longing for that unconscionable fleet and reinvested by the King with unlimited powers,- started at once to cancel the infamous compact. That same even- ing he had rejoined his command off Ustica. By noon on the 22nd the united squadron weighed anchor for Naples^ — 'stealing on,' wrote Hamilton to Acton, 'with light winds,' and 'business will be done.''* These dates and details have been minutely followed, as tending to establish that what really decided Nelson's movements was the dearest wish of his heart — the honour and interest of Great Britain. After suppressing the enemies of all authority and order, he still hoped to fall in with the long-hunted French fleet, and to deal a death-blow to the universal enemy.^ All along, his convictions and motives must be taken into account before the tribunal of history. It would never have been insinuated that he was a renegade to duty in making Palermo the base of his many operations, and the Neapolitan dynasty the touch- stone of his country's cause, if Lady Hamilton had not been in Sicily ; in Sicily he neither tarried nor dallied. To estimate his conduct, one should inquire if his policy could have been called dereliction supposing her to have been eliminated from its scene. And what applies to him in these matters henceforward applies to Emma, whose whole soul is fast becoming coloured by his. For a space * Cf. the King's letter to Ruffo of June 21. — Dumas, v. p. 256. ^ Several original documents concerning these are cited by Mr. Gulteridge, pp. 82-88. I will quote a single sentence only. The King, writing on June 27 to Ruffo, says with angry significance, ' You will have conformed to Lord Nelson. Otherwise that would be equivalent to declaring yourself a rebel.' — Eg. MS. 2640, f 278. •* Gutteridge, Nos. xxxix-lix. * 'Off Ustica 12 o'clock.' Affari Esteri, iii. 624; cited by Gutteridge, No. Ixxv. ^ On June 25 he had concerted a dchnilc line of battle with Duckworth. Cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 199. T 290 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON she must now act a minor, though by no means, as will soon appear, a supernumerary part, as his colleague in the real tragedy that now opens before us. Thus at last he, with the Hamiltons, set sail on an errand which has constantly been described as tarnishing his fame. Mr. Gutteridge's scholarlike and impartial review of all the intricate facts and documents ^ has proved that Nelson neither exceeded his powers nor violated his conscience. In championing the royal house of Naples he was as entirely consistent with the declared policy of his country as with his own convictions. His error, if any, was one of judgment. In rebellions clemency is often the best policy, and proscription is always the worst. Happy indeed would it have been for Naples, and for Nelson, if during the next two months the King had not intervened as director, in- quisitor, and hangman, if the Queen's wishes and Emma's had prevailed. Before the Fotidroj/ant proceeds further, let us glance at the intervening events in Naples, In that citadel of turbulence much had again happened, and was happening to the court's knowledge, ere Nelson weighed anchor at Palermo, Before May even, the suc- cessful blockade of Corfu by the Russians and Turks had largely cleared Ruffo's conquering course. The Austrians and Russians had prepared to drive the French from Upper Italy, In May, General Macdonald had already beaten a skilful retreat to the Po, leaving only a small detachment behind him to garrison the Neapolitan and Capuan castles, Benvenuto had welcomed the loyalists. By early June the Cardinal, close to the city, had succeeded in intercepting all communications by land. Schipani, a royalist officer of dis- tinction, had disembarked his troops at Torre Annunziata. The Republican fleet, commanded by the treacherous Admiral Caracciolo, had sneaked off and avoided a meet- ing ; while that same double-dyed traitor^ — despatched ^ Nelson and the Neapolitan Jacobins, published by the Navy Records Society, 1904. '^ So early as April 29 Nelson had told Lord Spencer, in a despatch, that the fishermen had cried out to Caracciolo : ' We believe you are loyal and sent by the King. But, much as we love you, if wc find you disloyal, you shall be among the first to fall.' — Cf. Laughton, p. 191. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 291 not three months ago on a loyal mission by the monarch whom he had flattered — had even fired on his old flagship, the Minerva} By the 13th of June — amid the solemn rites of the Lazzaroni's other patron, St. Antonio — Ruffo, with his mis- cellaneous forty thousand, gave battle on the side of Ponte Delia Maddalena, and won. Duke Roccomana, the people's old favourite, was now one of his generals, and the popu- lace, tired of bloodshed and the ' patriots,' rejoiced at the hope of a royal restoration. The young Pepe, a boy- prisoner, has left an account of the terrible scenes that he witnessed. He saw the wretched captives, stripped and streaming with blood, being dragged along to confinement in the public granary by the bridge. He heard the Lazza- roni, 'who used to look so honest, and to melt as their mountebanks recited the woes of " Rinaldo," shrieking and howling.' He watched the clergy whipping the rabble with their words, till they threw stones at the miserable prisoners. Some of them Ruffo had to protect from brutal assaults. These were thrown into hospitals, all filth and disorder ; while others feigned insanity to gain even this doubtful privilege. He beheld Vincenzo Ruvo, the ' Cato ' of the ' patriots,' and Jerocades, their ' Father,' bruised and bound ; and he marked, huddled and draggled among their comrades, the * four poets,' feebly striving to animate their starved spirits by snatches of broken song. He learned that the Castellamare garrison had also succumbed, but, above all, that Ruffo and Micheroux, the shifty ' commis- sioner' of his Russian allies, were at last willing to grant a demand expressed by some of the ' patriots ' for a ' truce ' so as to end this pandemonium,- and to arrange some terms of 'capitulation' for the castles still in 'patriot' occupation. Terms of any kind the Lazzaroni, on their side, vehemently resisted, and they even accused Ruffo of caballing to place his own brother on the throne.^ Nelson's own views of such unsanctioned capitulation had already ' Cf. Laughton, p. 201, Nelson's own statement. ' Pepe, Memoirs^ pp. 65-icX). " Cf. Hamilton to Acton, June 21, Eg. MS. 2640, f. 263. Krancescn Ruffo, inspector of forces and finance. He was arrested after liic reduction of Naples, but was, however, reinstated in favour and office as Minister of War. 292 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON been strikingly exemplified by his manifesto at Malta in the previous October — a point to which special attention should be drawn. Capitulation the French still stoutly rejected. Mejean, commandant of the French garrison in St. Elmo, still defended the dominating fortress, from which RufFo would now have to dislodge him at the risk of the town's destruction.^ Their single hope was for a glimpse of the French fleet, which was as much the object of their yearning as Nelson's. Counting on this, in their sore straits they had refused every conciliatory overture. Counting on this again, Mejean's aim was to gain time by the threat that he would fire on the town unless Ruffo forbore to attack him. When on June 24 the first sight of Nelson's ships was descried in the distance, the ' patriots ' cheered to the echo. They deemed it was St. Louis to the rescue. To their dismay it proved St. George. Micheroux's name, Ruffo's truce, and Nelson's arrival must recall us to what Captain Foote of the Seahorse had been doing in the interval. He seems to have been a rather stupid, though a most honourable seaman. His powers had been strictly limited. He, like Troubridge, was a suppressor of rebellion. He was to co-operate with the Russians in the Neapolitan blockade. He must have known almost as well as Ruffo — who had now for the fourth time been warned by his sovereign — that since the insurgents had rejected initial offers, no armistice was to be entered into whatever." In the event, Ruffo and the Russians duped him. Already, on June 13 and 14, Foote had been assisting Ruffo and his generals in a series of battles on the coast, all of which had proved decisive discomfitures for the * In a despatch to Lord Grenville of August 4, Hamilton recorded that Ruffo told him that but for the 'treaty,' Naples would have been 'a heap of stones.' - The Queen had written to him on June 14 that 'there must be no treaty.' With the French commissioners he might treat, but never with 'rebel vassals.' ' The King will pardon them out of kindness, and reduce their punishment, but he will never capitulate or enter into capitulations with guilty rebels, and would not stoop to bargain with such low, contemptible scoundrels.' — Gutteridge, p. 87. Cf. also the Queen's letter to Lady Hamilton, cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 233 ; Hamilton's letter to Acton (Gutteridge, p. 214), and Acton's letters to Hamilton (Eg. MS. 2640, f. 267), and Nelson's to Duckworth (Gutteridge, p. 216). TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 293 rebels. Throughout, Ruffo kept informing Foote of his fears lest the Franco- Hispanian fleet should be on them like a thief in the night. He dreaded the consequences, and it would be far wiser, he assured him, to gain time by some armistice. The Cardinal also dreaded the results of the mob-violence displayed in those awful scenes on the Ponte Maddalena. ' The duty,' he informed Acton on June 21, just before the capitulations were signed, ' of controlling a score of uneducated and subordinate chiefs, all intent on plunder, murder, and violence, is so terrible and complicated, that it is absolutely beyond my powers. ... If the surrender of the two castles is obtained, I hope to restore complete quiet.' ^ He used the imminence of the P'rench fleet (which never appeared) as a bogey to frighten his coadjutors, and the imminence of his own attack on St. Elmo as a lever for persuading the French commandant into assent. All along, by his own self-extenuation,"^ his excuse for contravening his strict injunctions was fear, and fear alone. His position in the hour of victory was one of pure panic. Two days before the unauthorised capitulations were declared, Foote had off"ered an asylum on board the Seahorse to the garrison of the Del Uovo Castle, then about to be stormed. The ' patriots' had answered with an indignant negative : ' We want the indi- visible Republic ; for the Republic we will die ! — Eloignez- vous, citoyens, vite, vite,vite !' On June 18 Ruffo himself acquainted Foote that St. Elmo must be assailed. ' Capitu- lation,' he added, 'was out of the question.' He had previously told him that the French would never sur- render to an ecclesiastic. And yet, on the very next day, this reynard concocted the ' capitulations,' both with the P>ench M^jean at St. Elmo and with the Neapolitan ' patriots' of the lower castles, whose discretion, with equal suddenness, had turned the better part of their valour. The separate arrangement with the P'rench he delegated^ ' Cf. Gutteridge, p. 152. '^ Cf. Sacchinelli, Afeiiion'e storiche snlla vita del Cardbiak F. l\u[To, pp. 251 ct seq, •* Cf. the documciUs cited fri)m llic archives by CiuUeridge, pp. 146 et seq. On June 21 Ruffo wrote to ^Vcton that the lower castles were ' on the point of surrendering to (he Russians and Chevalier Micheroux' (No. IxL). 294 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to Micheroux, commissioner for the Russians, himself a thorough-paced adventurer. Into the tortuous though interesting windings of these negotiations, now with Mejean, now with the ' patriot ' leaders, concerning the ultimate 'capitulation,' I cannot here enter. They were as various as they were numerous,^ and the clue to them is perhaps found in a desire to include both the French garrison and the 'patriots' under identical terms. Mejean had no particular wish either to be shelled or himself to open fire on the town ; and he awaited the French squadron with confidence. If the 'patriots' could, in the meantime, secure the honourable terms to which a surrendering enemy was entitled, they would be more than satisfied. Moreover, one of the Cardinal's relatives, and Micheroux's own brother, together with many dignitaries, had taken refuge in the lower castles of Uovo and Nuovo — a fact which supplied still another motive ; among these was Caracciolo himself, who, however, fled immediately, and was never included in the eventual terms of capitulation.- Trickery signalised every step of these diplomacies. Col- lusion was attended by excuse, and excuse begat fresh collusion. Mejean seemed quite ready to sacrifice the ' patriots.' The ' patriots ' had little thought for Mejean. Ruffo, as ' Mr. Facing-both-ways,' wheedled and chicaned them both, in his eagerness for delay and his miscalculated terror over the Franco - Hispanian squadron's approach. The evasions both of the rebel and the loyalist chiefs rivalled the excesses of the Lazzaroni rabble. On the 21st the various foreign representatives had signed, and, after much hesitation, Mejean ; by the 23rd Captain Foote also, who depended entirely on the representations of Ruffo, while Micheroux, signed last, and under protest. The document itself was most peculiar, considering the conditions of hostile and insurgent garrisons in the face of a successful conqueror. It was, in fact, a double agree- ^ Cf. Foote's 'Statement.' — Gutteridge, pp. 243 et seg. •^ On June 21 the Queen wrote to Ruffo : ' I deeply regret the flight of Caracciolo, believing that such a pirate on the high seas may be dangerous,' etc. — Gutteridge, No. Ixviii. This most important fact appears from Hamilton's despatch to Lord Granville of August 4, to which reference has already been made in a note. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 295 ment — both an 'armistice' and a capitulation. It should be remembered that it applied not only to the Neapolitan castles, but also to the fortress of Gaeta, while Capua had already set the precedent by formulating its own terms of surrender. And thus, on RufTo's part, it was a breach of faith with the Austrian Court, as well as with his own. One must feel for the ' patriots ' in the mass, since the fraud was the fraud of a few, and was practised on many of themselves. One must condemn the violence of the mob, for it was j^eneral and indiscriminate. But both the duplicity and the brutality were the outcome of the two despotisms which had so long been pitted against each other. In the main one might perhaps apply to both sides Gibbon's sentence about another conflict — ' What does it matter whether dog eats hog, or hog eats dog ? ' Nor should it be forgotten that, as already noticed, Ferdinand himself had no objection to treat with the French, if only they would hand over St. Elmo to the loyalists. What he had strictly and constantly forbidden was any sort of capitulation for the rebels. And lastly it should be emphasised that, since on a previous occasion the rebels had broken a concluded truce, they might well repeat that perfidy. It was only ' straits' that now constrained them to make one at all. Mutual jealousies and mutual hopes restrained or urged them by turns in thus making common cause with the French garrison.^ Roughly speaking, the respective terms, both of the armistice and of the capitulations to which it was an express prelude, were these : The armistice provided for a truce of twenty-one days, after the expiry of which, both the French and the 'patriot' garrisons, if luirelicved, were to be conveyed away at the King's expense'^ to Toulon, or places of safety. The words italicised are most material. No wonder that Foote found them ' very favourable to the Republicans,' though he based his consent on the express grounds that Ruffo was Viceroy, and that St. Elmo could not ' with propriety be attacked ' ' Acton to Hamilton, June 23, Eg. MS. 2640, f. 265. On June 26 they broke the armistice again. Cf. Diario Napoletano. * Cf. RufTo's letter of June 20 lo Foote, transcribed liy Gutteridge, No. lix. 296 EMMA. LADY HAMILTON till the uncertainty as to the Toulonese fleet was disposed of.i Nelson, however, took a much stronger view of this transaction. All armistices were reciprocal; if ett/ier party were 'relieved' or succoured within a given time, a status quo must result. This armistice, however, provided, and on the most monstrous conditions, for the interruption of hostilities pending the mere chance of the enemy being relieved. If the French fleet had appeared instead of his, no one could suppose that the rebels would keep their word. If, on the other hand, the King's army were, as it was now being, ' relieved ' by the British squadron, the truce was ipso facto determined. The very presence of Nelson's ships, therefore, annulled this armistice.- So much for the truce. Now for the capitulations. On the delivery of the forts, the troops, both French and Neapolitan, were to remain until polaccas were furnished for their safe-conduct. They were then all to march out with the honours of war. Should they prefer it, they were granted the option of remaining ' unmolested ' at Naples instead of proceeding by sea. These terms were to comprise all prisoners of war. All hostages were to be freed, but the royalists must allow Micheroux's brother, the Bishop of Avellino, and the Archbishop of Salerno, to remain in St, Elmo and in Mejean's hands, as securities for the due performance of the compact. Every condition was subject to the French Mejean's approval. ' They demand,' wrote the raging Queen, in her indignant comments,^ not ' the approval of their sovereign, but the approval of a small number of Frenchmen. . . . What an absurdity to give hostages as though we were the conquered ! ' * This luckless treaty it was, and this alone, that provoked the horrors of royal vengeance, for it converted the rebels of Naples into a foreign enemy. By insisting on amnesty as a right, by leaguing with the common foe, by rejecting ' Cf. Ruffo's letter, transcribed by Gutteridge, No. l.\. ^ Laughton's Z'^j'/iz/ir/^^i-, pp. 197, 198. ^ Add. MS. 30,999, f. 84. * Cf. besides the evidence aheady adduced, the Queen's letter to Ruffo of June 21 [Arckivio Storico, vol. v. p. 575, Gutteridge, No. Ixviii. ). — 'I am truly grieved that the obstinate Patriots have refused to surrender after proclamations offering clemency,' etc. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 297 more than one previous offer of clemency,^ by demanding their very utmost, they forfeited the least right to a grace which, however, it would have been far better in equity to have accorded. Ruffo, by owning himself unable to govern, by his helplessness to stem the riotous anarchy of vanquishers maddened by the suspicion of a second betrayal to the French, by his oblique manoeuvres, by his open breaches of royal trust, endangered not only himself but the countrymen whom he had so bravely led, and whom even now he professed to benefit. Such was the state of affairs when Nelson, rounding the Posilippo point with his forty ships, sailed into the bay, drew up his fleet facing the harbour,- and eyed the white flags flying from the castle towers. The Foudroyant was hailed as an ark after the deluge. The quay was thronged with cheering loyalists. Ruffo, however, looking out from the royal villa, seemed ill at ease. The Russians, too, were by no means pleased, as they had reckoned on reaping the sole credit of a clever pacification. The poor 'patriots' skulked and trembled in their fortresses. By night the whole city was all joy and illuminations, for Naples during the last few years had proved a kaleidoscope of massacre and merry-making. Not a minute was wasted by Nelson. With the help of Hamilton and Emma, as advisers and translators, he drafted his opinion ^ of these ' nefarious trans- actions,' and forthwith despatched it to Ruffo. The Queen had already counselled the Admiral to demand a ' voluntary surrender' before having recourse to arms.* This he at once proposed in a memorandum to Ruffo, calling first on the French to surrender within twenty-four hours, when they should be safely conducted to France; but 'as for the rebels and traitors, no power on earth shall stand between the King and them.' The Hamiltons read and explained it to the Cardinal, who as promptly rejected it. 1 Gutteridge, p. 165. ■■^ 'An attractive and magnificent spectacle,' says the contemporary Diario Napolctaiio, cited by Gutteridge, pp. iSi f/ se(/. ^ Laughlon's Despatches, pp. 197 ei seq. ; Diario Napolctano, cited by Gutteridge. •* Gutteridge (as alcove), No. Iwiii., and llelfert, p. 578; the Queen to tbe Empress (same date). 298 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Nelson immediately notified his annulment of the armistice (as self-stultifying), of the capitulations (as preposterous), and of both as wholly unauthorised and unbinding. The supple Cardinal had not only exceeded his commission, he had violated his directions and broken his word. Early next morning Rufifo, all 'compliments' and confusion, visited the Foudroyant to confer with Nelson. During the whole of this interview the Hamiltons were present, Emma acting as interpretress. The Cardinal insisted on theoretic distinctions between the armistice and capitula- tions. Nelson flatly repudiated such subtleties. Whatever name labelled these iniquitous arrangements, they were rank treason, he said, and must be cancelled. An Admiral, he added, was no match in such matters for a Cardinal.^ All that day of June 25, letters, conferences, intrigues, bluff of every description, passed on all sides except Nelson's. From Palermo, Acton, confused by incomplete tidings, wrote no less than four letters. The foreign signatories entered a formal protest against the capi- tulations. Mejean threatened to bombard the town from St. Elmo ; and he told Micheroux that if hostilities re- commenced, he would not be answerable for consequences. Massa, the ' patriot '-commander, remonstrated both with Ruffo and Mejean, adding that he would not be intimidated ; at the same time he requested Mejean's support should the people issue from the castles. The whole of Naples lay between two fires, that of the French and that of the English. By late evening Ruffo himself besought Nelson for troops, in case Mejean should execute (as he did) his threat of a cannonade.^ And yet by that night the two smaller castles held by the patriots had uncondition- ally^ surrendered. The royal colours streamed from their turrets. The Deputies (' Eletti '), to whom the Queen ' Nelson to Keith, June 27, 1799; transcribed by (hilteridge from the P.R.O., p. 264. '•^ Cf. Gutteridge, pp. 218-229 ; Add. MS. 34,944, f. 248 ; Eg. MS. 2640, ff. 269, 271, 287 ; Sacchinelli, passim. The garrisons had already been counselled to retire ; Add. MS. 24,912, f. 151. " This will be established in the succeeding pages. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 299 always ascribed the root of the mischief,^ had scurried off.- Feux de joie blazed in all the streets, and from every window, side by side, waved the British and Neapolitan flags. In the meantime neither had Emma's energy been dormant ; she did more than copy, and interpret, and translate the patois. She was a woman of action. Her enthusiasm spread among the common people, who adored her. She conjured with the Queen's name: — 'I had privily seen all the Loyal party, and having the head of the Lazzaronys an old friend, he came in the night of our arrival, and told me he had 90 thousand Lazeronis \sic\ ready, at the holding up of his finger, but only twenty with arms. Lord Nelson, to whom I enterpreted, got a large supply of arms for the rest, and they were deposited with this man. In the mean time the Calabreas \sic\ were comiting murders ; the bombs we sent . . . were re- turned, and the city in confusion. I sent for this Pali, the head of tJu Lazeroni, and told him, in great confidence, that the King wou'd be soon at Naples, and that all that we required of him was to keep the city quiet for ten days from that moment. We gave him only one hundred of our marine troops. He with these brave men kept all the town in order . . . and he is to Jiave promotion. I have thro' him made "the Queen's party," and the people have prayed for her to come back, and she is now very popular. I send her every night a messenger to Palermo, with all the news and letters, and she gives me the orders the same [way]. I have given audiences to those of her party, and settled matters between the nobility and Her Majesty. She is not to see on her arrival any of her former evil counsellors, nor the women of fashion, alltho' Ladys of the Bedchamber, formerly her friends and companions, who did her dishonour by their desolute \sic\ life, yi//, all is changed. She has been very tinfortiinate ; but she is a good woman, and has sense enough to profit by her past unhappiness, and will make for the future avicndc honorable ' Cf. the Queen's letter to Latly Hamilton, June 25, transcriljeil by Peltigrew, vol. i. p. 233 ; Gutteridge, p. 210. " Diario Napoktano, cited by Gutteridge, p. 184. 300 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON for the past. In short, if I can judge, it may turn out fortunate that the Neapolitans have had a dose of Republicanism. . . . P.S. — It wou'd be a charity to send me some things ; for in saving all for my dear and royal friend, I lost my little all. Never mind.'^ Bravo ! Emma, rash organiser and populariser of the Queen's party, bold equipper and encourager of Pali the Lazzaroni, who, when the King at last came to his own again, brought all his ninety thousand men to welcome him at sea. We shall hearken to Emma again ere long. For the present, the recital of sterner events must be resumed. The plot, then, to place Naples at the mercy of the French had been foiled. The question that was to convulse the city on the following day was. On what terms had the castles surrendered ? It is most important in tracing the difficulties of the next few days, to distinguish between the two separate cases of the armistice with the French in St. Elmo and the capitulations with the ' patriots ' in the two lower castles. Some of the rebels were already contriving to escape; many of them soon succeeded in doing so with such boats as lay to hand. Would Nelson be likely to reconsider any of the now cancelled clauses of the patriots' capitulation ? And would he forbear from attacking St. Elmo itself notwithstanding his non-recognition of the armistice? In exacting the unconditional surrender of the rebels he had never wavered,^ despite the shifty shilly-shally- ings of Ruffo. But it will be found that, for the sake of the town's quietude, and pending some authoritative declaration of the King's pleasure (possibly recalling Ruffo ^), he did now temporarily desist from a siege. This ^ Morrison MS. 411. To Greville, Fotidroyant, July 19, 1799. ^ On June 25 he wrote to Duckworth that he ' differed wholly from the Cardinal.' 'I say the rebels shan't go to Toulon.' He wants 'to save' the houses of Naples even before the 'sovereign's honour.' On the same day his proclamation will not allow the rebels to 'quit or embark.' They must ' surrender to the royal mercy.' Cf. Desp. in., pp. 3S6, 388; Gutteridge, pp. 91, 92. On June 26 he recorded his opinion that the capitulation entered into with the rebels cannot be executed without the King's approval. ^ Cf. generally, Hamilton to Grenville, July 14, 1799 ; P.R.O., Sic. Papers, P- 399 ; Gutteridge, p. 309. Then so late as June 24 the royalties were not convinced that Ruftb's misfeasance was designed. Cf. the Queen's letter to TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 301 distinction between two different sets of conditions is most material, since those who have not investigated the docu- ments have assumed and often asserted that on June 26 Nelson went back on his plighted promise. What seems, however, to have happened is, that both the time-serving Ruffo and the wily Micheroux so twisted these two separate cases together as to persuade the ' patriots ' that the surrender of their castles on the verge of a renewed armistice with the French revived the original terms of their old capitulations.^ From a mass of complicated documents the situation can be clearly discerned. Mcjean's one thought was for his own garrison. Capua still held out, and till it fell he disdained to surrender. His threats to bombard the town embarrassed Nelson alike and Ruffo ; and, indeed, they were more than threats, for an intermittent fire from St. Elmo nightly terrified Naples.- He was a bully, and he thought he could intimidate Nelson into compliance. The ' patriots ' in the castles Uovo and Nuovo, however, only wanted to hold Nelson to their own separate capitulations and thus ensure their own escape.' They sought to induce Mejean to hang the royalist ' hostages ' in St. Elmo, unless the capitulatory clauses were carried out. They feared that Nelson might (as for a space he did) restrict the armistice to St. Elmo alone. The conduct of both French and ' patriots ' during these hours of suspense was purely selfish : both tried to save their own skins. Mejean himself, even while he defied Nelson, was not above the possibility of a bribe. And, amid all these meannesses, Micheroux and Ruffo were the meanest of all. There seems little doubt L;uly Ilamillon, Eg. MS. l6l6, f. 34. On June 25, however, she wrote about Ruffo, complaining that he said next to nothing about the treaty, and declaring that Naples must be treated as if a rebel Irish town. Cited Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 233. On the same day the King commends ' his capital to the brave and loyal Lord Nelson,' and adds that Ruffo and Pignatelli are surrounded by scoundrels. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 269. Nelson himself afterwards excused Ruffo to the King. Cf. his letter cited by Gutteridge, p. 287. ' In the succeeding passages I venture to supplement and further elucidate Mr. Guttcridge's inferences. - Cf. Hamilton to Acton, cited by Gutteridge, p. 249. ■' St. Elmo and the two other casllcs arranged their capitulations apart from each other. Cf. Gutteridge, p. 171. 302 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON that they took advantage of this tangle to mislead General Massa and his patriots into a belief that Nelson had accepted their surrender on the terms of the repudiated capitulation.^ If they were convinced that their escape, as well as their surrender, was unconditional, that they were entitled to safe conduct and the honours of war, then the whole odium of consequences would be cast on the shoulders of the British Admiral, while their misleaders would be held harmless. Early on June 26 Hamilton informed Ruffo that Nelson had ' resolved to do nothing that might break the armistice ' ; and this Nelson confirmed with his own hand.^ If I have made myself clear, it will be patent that this of itself involved no change of front whatever towards the rebels'^ with regard to whom he awaited the further royal instructions. Above all, Nelson desired that Mejean should not put in force his menace of firing on the wretched town, and so he was ready to give him time — and rope. That this was his real meaning is proved by the succeeding sentences in Nelson's letter of confirmation to Ruffo. He would land, he proceeds, twelve hundred men ' under the present armistice! These troops were to carry out the uncon- ditional surrender of the two smaller castles, formally made on the night preceding. Troubridge and Ball were de- spatched for the purpose ; and, as a matter of fact, they took over the fortresses and occupied them on this very morn- ing.* Troubridge and Ball made short work of the Jacobin insignia. They hewed down the Tree of Liberty and the red-capped giants. Rejoicing pervaded the town. The Cardinal himself came on board the Foudroyant full of ^ For the preceding, cf. Sacchinelli, p. 255 et seij,; Gutteridge, pp. 230-248; Add. MS. 34.944, ff- 50> 245, 247 ; 34,950, f. 75 ; 34,963, f. 104. ■■^ Sacchinelli, p. 255 ; Add. MS. 34,944, f. 250 ; 34,963, f. 104. (The date is wrongly given in Nelson's letter-book as June 28.) ■^ As is well known, Sacchinelli appended a facsimile of an order by Trou- bridge to the effect that Nelson would not 'oppose the execution of the capitula- tion of the two castles.' This is not in Troubndge's handwriting. It should be compared with Troubridge's real declaration given in my text. * In this way may be reconciled with the facts Minichini's statement in his ' Verbale ' that Commandant Aurora ' took over the castles Uovo and Nuovo on the night preceding ' (Sacchinelli, p. 257). They were then surrendered, but the royalist officer only held them till the arrival of Nelson's emissaries. \ TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 303 smiles and congratulations. Emma shared them. She had been slaving at this complex correspondence/ and RufFo, safe as he now felt from the King's certain anger, expressed his gratitude to her and her husband.- Though Nelson was bound by no conditions whatever, he did un- doubtedly declare, at the same time, through Troubridge to Rufifo, that he would not ' oppose the embarkation of the rebels, and of the people composing the garrisons of the castles Uovo and Nuovo.'^ A small quota of polaccas awaited the refugees ; some, we have seen, were already embarking. For the present, Nelson pledged his word that he would not molest them. But he promised no more. That very day Acton was informing Hamilton that the King had decided to come in person, and that the Cardinal was probably at the end of his tether ;* while on the next he wrote rejoicing that the 'shameful capitulation' had been rescinded ; Ruffo, if he ' wobbled,' would be deposed, and a direct communication from the King must by this time have reached Nelson.^ It had reached him. Nelson at once ordered the Seahorse off to Palermo for the King's service, and he 7iow distinctly warned the rebels that they 'must submit to the King's clemency' under 'pain of death.' c It was this letter that decided the doom of the miserable patriots who, under these circumstances, had been caught in a death-trap. Had the King's directions been deferred, Nelson would have stayed his hand. As it was, the rebels, instead of seeing the capitulations executed, were executed themselves. Years afterwards Nelson affirmed in a docu- ment dictated to Lady Hamilton : ' I put aside the dis- honourable treaty, and sent the rebels notice of it. There- fore, when the rebels surrendered, they came out of the castles as they ought, without any honours of war, and 1 She was also in daily correspondence with the Queen. Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 274. - Hamilton to Acton, June 27, 1799. Affari Esteri, iii. f. 64. Cited by Gutteridge, p. 249. * Cf. Gutteridge, p. 234. ^ Eg. MS. 2640, f. 273. ■* Ibid. f. 274. * Hamilton to RufTo, June 28, 1799; Rose, vol. i. p. 238; Gutteridge, p. 268. The same to the same on the same date. Afl. Est. iii. 624 : Gutteridge, p. 269. 304 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON trusting to the judgment of their sovereign.'^ And the British Government in October 1799 fully endorsed Nelson's policy.^ The King's good nature had hitherto been proverbial ; it was the Queen and Acton who had hitherto shared the odium of repression. But Ferdinand was now at length his own master, and his latent cruelty emerged the more savage because it had been long in abeyance, and he had now heavy scores to settle with fawning courtiers and spurious loyalists. No quarter was to be given to these false prophets ; not a man of them was to escape. In the en- suing hecatomb of slaughter the Queen, and even more Emma, stand out as compassionate intercessors : ^ it is the King who is inexorable. In Hamilton's missive to Acton of the following day — June 27 — occurred a significant sentence : — ' Captain Troubridge is gone to execute the business, and the rebels on board the feluccas cannot stir without a passport from Lord Nelson.' The heartrending scenes that ensued may be gathered from a pile of correspondence between Hamilton and Acton, Nelson and Ruffo (as well as from their despatches to their home Governments), the Queen and Lady Hamil- ton. The letters are too numerous for citation here, but most of them may be found transcribed in Mr. Gutteridge's masterly volume. That very night thirteen chained rebels were brought on board. The next day, the passengers awaiting deliverance in twelve polaccas found themselves bondsmen in Nelson's ^ Morrison MS. 702, addressed to Mr. Alexander Stephens, February 10, 1803. This whole statement in refutation of the Jacobin Miss W^illiams's 'false representations ' is familiar. It should be added that the people shouted against the Cardinal and in Nelson's favour. Cf. letter transcribed by Gutteridge, p. 271. ^ Lord Spencer wrote : ' I can only repeat that the intentions and motives by which all your measures have been governed, have been as pure and good as their success has been complete.' — Eg. MS. 2240, f. 25. ^ Even of the worst, Caracciolo, the Queen writes to Emma on July 2 of ' le malheureux et forceni Caracciolo. ' ' I know well,' she adds, * how much your excellent heart must have suffered, and this increases my gratitude.' — Eg. MS. 2651, f. 77. A few days later, hearing of the arrest of Belmonte's brother, which she deplores, she implores Emma not to be led away by her ' benevolent heart,' and to think only on the miseries caused by rascals. — /did. 1616, f. 42. It was to Emma that the unfortunate turned. Cf. Morrison MS. 401, 403, 409. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 305 ships. Nelson certainly did not underdo his part of aveng- ing angel — the part of what the Queen styled his ' heroic firmness.' He was St. Michael against the seven devils of Jacobinism, and the whole iron vials of retribution were poured forth. He represented a King who had wronged before in his turn he had been wronged, and who had hoarded his injuries. While the crowd on the quays vociferated with joy, it was not long before the dungeons of the fleet re-echoed to the groans and curses of ensnared and intercepted patriots Emma shuddered as she kept to her cabin and tried to write to her Queen. The thirteenth of the thirteen confined in the Foudroyant on that 27th of June, was Caracciolo. He had not been included in any amnesty. On the cession of the castles, he had fled to the mountains, but had been dragged from his lair by a dastardly spy. Pale, ashamed, and trembling unwashen and unkempt, he stood silent before the stern Nelson and Troubridge. Who could recognise in this quailing figure the proud son of a proud father, the feudal Prince who had learned seamanship in England, the courtier who had been loaded with honours, the admiral who had kissed the royal hands only three months ago, when he parted with loyal protestations of -devotion ? He had fired on his own flagship. That was the sole thought in the breasts of the grim sailors who confronted him. Such a catastrophe inspires horror, but of all the victims that were soon to glut the scaffold, the least worthy of commiseration is Caracciolo. Many had been forced by the French into tempting posts on the provisional admini- stration. Such, for example, was the errant but charming Domenico Cirillo, for whom Emma was to plead so warmly. Others, again, had been heroic. Such was Eleonora de Pimentel. But Caracciolo, though he set up the plea of duress, had purposely left Sicily.^ He was powerful, he was trusted, and he had proved a Judas. He has figured as an old man bowed with years and care. He was still in the prime of ' Cf. tlie Diario Napolctano for Saturday, June 29, c'tcd by Gutteridge. U 306 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON life.^ He has been pictured as a veteran Casabianca. He was really a rat who left what he supposed was a sinking ship. The sole real extenuation that I can find is that his estates had been ravaged, and that his hapless family was large. But every one's property had been plundered by the French, and not every one had turned traitor. And yet despair should always command pity, and the despair of treachery, perhaps, most of all, for it is the torment of a lost soul. Had Caracciolo lived under Nero, he might have died by himself opening a vein, like Vestinus. But, on the other hand, the great evil of unconstitutional monarchy lies in its proneness to visit crime with crime ; as Tacitus has put it : ' Scelera sceleribus tuenda.' The imagination of cherishing Italy and of free England has long enshrined him as the type of Liberty sacrificed in cold blood to Despotism, as innocent and murdered. In England this myth mainly originated in the generous eloquence of Charles James Fox,^ who loved freedom, it is true, but loved politics more; that Fox, be it remembered, who, when in power, once politely told his Catholic sup- porters, in opposition, to go to the devil. More than sixty years later, the attitude of a section towards the case of Governor Eyre and the negroes presents a close analogy to the attitude of the same section towards the case of Nelson and Caracciolo. Caracciolo had fired on his own flagship. From the yard-arm of that flagship he must hang. So thought his captors ; so, perchance, thought Caracciolo as his ashy lips refused the relief of words. Nelson had himself requested Ruffo to deliver Caracciolo into his hands instead of send- ing him to be tried at Procida.^ He was not rhadamanthine, but he was an English Admiral ; and the English had killed even Admiral Byng, whose crime — if crime it was — was a trifle compared with Caracciolo's. ' To encourage the others,' said Voltaire ; ' as an example,' said Nelson. ^ Forty-eight, * Nelson's own indignant refutation of Fox's indictment in the House of Commons during February 1800, may be read in his letter to Davison of May 9. Cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 239. 2 Sacchinelli has a story, destitute of any evidence, that the King was for mercy, but that Nelson overbore him. TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 307 The next day Caracciolo was 'tried.' Emma never beheld him. The process was short and sharp. He was condemned. The shivering Emma shut herself up and brooded over the results of her ambition. Caracciolo was guilty before trial, but this summary trial was a farce. It would have been far juster — though the issue was un- doubted^— if Caracciolo had passed the ordeal of impartial judges. His Neapolitan inquisitors refused him the death of a gentleman, or even a day's reprieve for his poor soul's comfort. In vain Emma is said to have supplicated Nelson for these fitting mercies. Naturally humane, he was here relentless. He was neither lawyer nor priest. He had not been his judge. Caracciolo's own peers had pronounced him guilty of death, and Nelson sentenced him.' Caracciolo's flagship was the Minerva, commanded by our old friend Count Thurn, the sentinel of last December. On June the 28th, at five of the afternoon, the scarecrow of sedition swung, lashed to the Minervas gallows. ' So perish all who do the like again.' The bay was alive with hundreds of boats crowded with thousands of loyalists. For two full hours ^ he dangled in sight of a gloating mob, before the rope was cut, and its grisly burden dropped into the sea. As the big southern sun dipped suddenly below the waves which had once witnessed the revel by which Nero had enticed his own mother to destruction, one by one the little lights of boats and quays began to glimmer, the scent of flowers was wafted, the bells of church towers tolled over the ghostly waters. The shore was thronged with eager spectators, gesticulating, applauding, pointing at the mast where Caracciolo had expiated his treason. M^jean had himself broken the truce by assailing the city with his fusillade. Nelson now attacked St. Elmo, ' He admitted being 'one of those who went out to stop his Majesty's troops by sea.' — Sacchinelli, p. 264. - Count Thurn, in his report, terms it Nelson's sentence. ■' This appears from several accounts. A draft despatch of Hamilton to (Iren- ville gives the time as from five to sunset. The orifjinal intention had been thai he should swing from daylireak till sunset. 3o8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON while Troubridge, with his troops, invested it by land Its fall was timed to greet the King's arrival. The Seahorse brought him, together with Acton and Castelcicala, on the night of the 9th to the channel of Procida, where they awaited Nelson. Next morning they stepped together on to the deck of the Foudroyant. As the Admiral and his guests sailed into the gulf before the last shot had reduced the stronghold on the hill, the sea bristled with the barques, the two banks of the Chiaja with the dense array, of his welcomers. At ten o'clock he anchored. The boom of cannon, the noise of batteries, the 'shouts of Generals' acclaimed the restoration of the King amid the salutes of victory.^ The King had at last come to his own again. But, as Emma wrote, ' II est bon d'etre chez le roi, il est mieux d'etre chez soi.'^ She had toiled like a Trojan. ' Our dear Lady,' wrote Nelson a week later to her mother, ' La Signora Madre,' ' has her time so much taken up with excuses from rebels, Jacobins, and fools, that she is every day most heartily tired. ... I hope we shall very soon return to see you. Till then, recollect that we are restoring happiness to the Kingdom of Naples and doing good to millions.'^ 'The King,' wrote Emma gravely, pouring out, two days afterwards, her triumphs to Greville, who must have opened wide his eyes as he read, * has bought his experience most dearly, but at last he knows his friends from his enemies, and also knows the defects of his former government, and is determined to remedy them ; . . . his misfortunes have made him steady, and [to] look into himself. The Queen is not yet come. She sent me as her Deputy ; for I am very popular, speak the Neapolitan language, and [am] considered, with Sir William, the friend of the people. The Queen is waiting at Palermo, and she has determined, as there has been a great outcry against her, not to risk coming with the King ; for if he had not succeeded [on] his arrival, and not been well received, she wou'd not bear the blame or be in the way.' 'But' — and here we catch the true beat of Emma's heart — ' But what a glory to our good King, to our Country, that we — our brave fleet, our great Nelson — have had the * Sacchinelli, p. 268. '■^ Morrison MS. 417. 3 Morrison MS. 408, July 17, 1799. 'i J TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 309 happiness of restoring the King to his throne, to the Neapolitans their much-loved King, and been the instru- ment of giving a future good and just government to the Neapolitans ! , . . The guilty are punished and the faithful rewarded. I have not been on shore but once. The King gave us leave to go as far as St. Elmo's, to see the effect of the bombs! I saw at a distance our despoiled house in town, and Villa Emma, that have been plundered. Sir William's new apartment — a bomb burst in it! It made me so low-spirited, I don't desire to go again. ' We shall, as soon as the Government is fixed, return to Palermo, and bring back the royal family ; for I foresee not any permanent government till that event takes place. Nor wou'd it be politick, after all the hospitality the King and Queen received at Palermo, to carry them off in a hurry. So you see there is great management required. I am quite worn out. For I am interpreter to Lord Nelson, the King and Queen ; and altogether feil quite shattered ; but as things go well, that keeps me up. We dine now every day with the King at 12 o'clock. Dinner is over by one. His Majesty goes to sleep, and we sit down to write in this heat ; and on board you may guess what we suffer. My mother is at Palermo, but I have an English lady^ with me, who is of use to me, in writing, and helping to keep papers and things in order. We have given the King all the upper cabbin, all but one room that we write in and receive the ladies who come to the King. Sir William and I have an apartment below in the ward-room, and as to Lord Nelson, he is here and there and everywhere. I never saw such zeal and activity in any one as in this wonderful man. My dearest Sir William, thank God, is well and of the greatest use now to the King. We hope Capua will fall in a few days, and then we will be able to return to Palermo. On Sunday last we had prayers on board. The King assisted, and was much pleased with the order, decency, and good behaviour of the men, the officers, etc' The self-consciousness, the strenuousness, the devotion, the enthusiasm, the egotism, and yet the sympathy — all the old elements are here. She had thirsted for the blood and thunder of her girlhood's romances ; she now beheld ' Miss Cornelia Kniglu. 310 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON blood and thunder in reality. The ' much-loved ' King had a summary way of finishing off his enemies, and bribery as well as butchery reigned in Naples. The Morrison Collec- tion is full of appeals to Lady Hamilton's kind heart. Many of them are tragic. One welcomes a snatch of humour. A certain Englishman, Matthew Wade, was a great figure in Naples. He it was who advised the garrisons to surrender. Troubles, in these troublous times, had fallen on his household, and I cannot refrain from subjoining a passage in a letter of his about them to Emma. ' I beg leave to remind your Ladyship that the Gover- nour's finances is become very low, and I suppose in a short time I will lose my credit, as my house was plundered when I was in prison, under a protest of finding papers and being a Royalist ; and after, by the Calabrace [sic] before my return here, for being a Jacobine. The last was a dirty business, as they robbed my mother-in-law of her shift. She said six, tho' I never knew her and her daughter to have but three, as I well remember they usually disputed who was to put on the clean shift of a Sunday morning. However, I was obliged to buy six shifts in order to live quiet. Pray assure her Majesty and General Acton that I can't hold out much longer. Besides, my family is in- creased. I have got a cat and a horse which has been robbed from me by the Jacobines. I met him with a prince, and took emediately possession of him as my real proprity. ... I am told a conspiracy has been discovered and a sum of money found, in order to let seventeen of the principal Jacobines escape, now confined (and they are marked for execution) in the Castell-Nuovo ; they say the Governor (from whom they have taken the command) is deeply conserned in the business. I am sorry for him, tho' I have no acquaintance with the man, but I am told he is a brave man and a soldier. But there is something in the air of the climate that softens the nerve so much, that I never knew a man — nay, nor a woman of the country — that cou'd resist the temptation of gold.'^ Thus Matthew Wade, humourist and philosopher. ' Morrison MS. 419, August xo, 1799. Jiai, TRIUMPH ONCE MORE 311 The Vicariate of Naples was now reposed in the Duke of Salandra, who had always been loyal. Nelson appointed Troubridge Commodore of the Naples squadron, and pre- sented him with the broad, red pennant. Nelson himself was soon to be elevated for a time to the chief Mediter- ranean command. The ist of August was celebrated with as much rejoicing as the situation allowed. Nelson relates to his wife, not in 'vanity 'but in 'gratitude,' the King's toast, the royal salute from the Sicilian ships of war, the vessel turned into a Roman galley in the midst of which, among the ' fixed lamps,' stood a repetition of last year's 'rostral column,' the illuminations, the magnificent orchestra, the proud cantata — Nelson came, the invincible Nelson, and they were preserved and again made happy.^ Indeed, Leghorn and Capua had both surrendered, as well as Naples. By the 9th of August the Foudroyant with its jubilant inmates had returned to Palermo. Emma had again triumphed. But at what a cost to her peace of mind! A royal reign of terror had unnerved her. She was never to see ' dear, dear Naples ' again. Her husband leaned upon her daily more and more ; and yet the active association of nearly two months, which seemed like two years, had brought her and Nelson closer than ever together as affinities. All along it was the force and vigour of her character far more than her charms and accomplishments that appealed to him, and her unflagging strength of spirit had never displayed itself to greater advantage than during these trials of the last few months. She tended faster and faster towards some irrevocable step, the very shadow of which perturbed while it allured her. A note of discord jars on the whole tune of her triumph. On one of the short sea expeditions, so rumour goes, that time had allowed them to join in making, a phantom had startled them. Out of the depths the livid body of Caracciolo, long immersed but still buoyant, had risen from nothingness and fixed them with its sightless gaze.^ ' Nelson to his wife, August 4, 1799, transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. i, p. 289. - This episode has been treated by leniniore Cooper in his fack 0' Lantern. CHAPTER XI HOMEWARD BOUND To December 1800 There is an almost imperceptible turning-point in career, as in age, when the slope of the hill verges downwards. Emma had now reached her summit. Henceforward, in gradual curves, her path descends. The royal fete champetre at Palermo in Nelson's honour eclipsed each previous pageant. No splendour seemed adequate to the national gratitude. The Temple of Fame in the palace gardens, its exquisitely modelled group of Nelson led by Sir William to receive his wreath from the hands of Emma as Victory ; ^ the royal reception and em- brace of the trio at its portals, and the laurel-wreaths with which Ferdinand crowned them ; the Egyptian pyramids with their heroic inscriptions ; the Turkish Admiral and his suite in their gorgeous trappings, grave and contemptuous of the homage paid to the fair sex ; the young Prince Leopold in his midshipman's uniform, who, mounting the steps at the pedestal of Nelson's statue, crowned it with a diamond laurel-wreath to the strains of ' See the Conquering Hero' ; the whole court blazing with jewels emblematic of the allied conquests ; the mimic battle of the Nile in fire- works ; the new cantata of the ' Happy Concord,' and the whole Opera band, with the younger Senesino at their head, bursting at the close into 'Rule Britannia' and 'God save the King' ; the weather-beaten Nelson himself moved to tears — all these formed picturesque features of a memor- ^ On her robe were embroidered the names of the heroes of the Nile. The group was in wax. HOMEWARD BOUND 313 able night. Lieutenant Parsons, an eye-witness, thus alludes to it and the tutelary goddess both of the royal house and its two defenders, by sword and pen : — ' A fairy scene . . . presided over by the Genius of Taste, whose attitudes were never equalled, and with a suavity of manner and a generous openness of mind and heart, where selfishness, with its unamiable concomitants, pride, envy, and jealousy, would never dwell — I mean Emma, Lady Hamilton. . . . The scene [of the young Prince crowning Nelson] was deeply affecting, and many a countenance that had looked with unconcern on the battle . . . now turned aside, ashamed of their . . . weakness.'^ Vzva Nelson ! Viva Miledi ! Viva Hamilton ! rent the air.^ Emma divided the honours with Nelson. A torrent of stanzas gushed from the Sicilian improvisatori ;^ even surgeons burst into song.^ But there were more substantial favours. Nelson re- ceived not only a magnificent sword of honour and caskets of remembrance, together with, a few months later, the newly founded order of merit, but, partly by means of Emma's advocacy, the title and estates of the Duchy of Bronte. These, however, through the mismanagement first of Grafer and afterwards of Gibbs, yielded a poor and most precarious revenue for him, and, as will be shown hereafter, a fluctuating one for Emma, whose annuity was to be ' Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 292. - Eg. MS. 1623, f. 27. ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 1623, f. 72, some of which may be thus rendered : — ' See Lady Hamilton, Britannia's pride, Our glory, worthiest of her empire here. Nature has dowered with all gifts sincere, A store that never Flattery can divide. Honour and Beauty in communion stand, Shrined in a bosom candid, tried, and true ; Its inmost depths reveal a world to view, And age to age its wonderment shall hand. Ah ! spare ye Fates, nor, cruel, cut the twine That holds to life the Nestor of her days. Long may he bide to prove our meed of praise ; Oft may his light reflect and double thine ! ' The 'Nestor' is, of course, Hamilton, who must have often winced good- naturedly in always taking the back seat. * Cf. ibid. f. 75. 314 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON charged upon it. The title * Bronte,' with its Greek deriva- tion of thunder, so curiously according with the name of his vessel, caused Nelson afterwards to be continually styled by Emma and his sisters ' Jove ' the thunderer.^ Presents poured in upon him : the Crescent from the Grand Signior, the sword and cane from Zante, commemorating the de- liverance of Greece, the grants from English companies. Nor was Emma without royal recognition. A queenly trousseau awaited her on her arrival, and she received regal jewels, valued, it was said, at six thousand pounds, but which she sold two years afterwards, to Nelson's admira- tion, for her husband's benefit. ' Nestor,' indeed, was be- coming more and more involved in debt, and about this period he borrowed over two thousand pounds from Nelson.- He was not only worried, but worn. He took offence at trifles, and had quarrelled even with Acton.^ Nelson did not dally, though Downing Street pained him by its insinuations. From all these festivities his alertness at once returned to vigilance and service. Not a fortnight passed before — occupied as he was with every sort of multi- farious correspondence — he sent Duckworth to protect the British trade, on the maintenance of which he laid infinite stress, at Lisbon and Oporto, to watch Cadiz, and to keep the Straits open. He minutely directed Ball's operations at Malta, still hampered by every vexatious delay on the Italian side, and by the follies of Nizza, the Portuguese Admiral. Early in September he charged Troubridge and Louis with their mission to Civita Vecchia, which within a month freed Rome from the French.* Directly ^ At first, out of compliment to the King, he signed his letters ' Bronte and Nelson,' but he soon recurred to ' Nelson and Bronte.' ^ There are several pointed allusions to this debt both in the Nelson Letters and in the accounts of the Merton expenses subjoined to the Morrison Autographs. In all, the eventual debt amounted to some ;i^3770. About this time its amount was ^^2276. Cf. Morrison MS. 537 and 538, where Nelson mentions part of it in one of his many codicils. In a letter of 1801 Nelson asked Emma if he should bequeath to her Sir William's debt to him. It seems never to have been repaid. Ibid. 507. And cf. also Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 621. ■" There are many letters between him and Acton of this period about a sup- posed insult. Hamilton opens his with ' Have you, or have you not,' etc. For this episode cf. Eg. MS. 24,640, fif. 386-390. ■* Acton in his letter of congratulation speaks about ' dimostrations from the King and Queen.' Add. MS. 34,915. HOMEWARD BOUND 315 he received this most cheering inteHigence, he him- self started in the Foudroyant for Port Mahon, with the one object of concentrating every available force by land and sea on the complete reduction of Malta, which remained ever in his ' thoughts, sleeping or waking.' He did not land at Palermo till October, when he was able to announce to Sidney Smith (uniformly and magnanimously helped, praised, and counselled by him throughout) that Buonaparte had passed Corsica in a bombard steering for France. No crusader ever returned with more humility — contrast his going in IJOrietit! ^ All the same this was ill news, and Nelson was furious also at not receiving troops from Minorca, and at the frauds of the victualling depart- ment.^ He kept a sharp lookout on the Barbary States and pirates. He deplored the inactivity of the Russian squadron at La Valetta, and he resented the Austrian demand for their presence elsewhere ; his representations caused a ' cool reception ' to the Archduke's suite when they visited Palermo.^ By Christmas he cursed the stupidity which had allowed Napoleon, hasting back for his strokes at Paris, to elude the allies.^ But above all, both he and Emma strained every nerve to extort grain for starving Malta from the King and Queen of Naples chicaning with Acton to retain every bushel for their own necessities. Until, after 'infamous' delays and falsified promises, the dole was granted which saved thirty thousand of the Maltese loyalists from death,^ he 'cursed the day' he 'ever served the King of Naples.' ' Such,' he wrote to Trou- bridge, ' is the fever of my brain this minute, that I assure you, on my honour, if the Palermo traitors were here, I ' Laughton's Z>i;j/a.V^<:j-, p. 218. Oct. 24. Nelson landed at Palermo Oct. 22. - These, of course, were Lock's misfeasances. Besides the familiar sources for this long affair, of. Add. MS. 34,915, f. in. ^ Cf. Add. MS. 34,915, f. 112. In this letter Emma's first cavaliere ser- vente. Count Dietrichslein, reappears. Emma had called him ' Draydrixton ' in 1786. Acton here calls him ' Dietrixsteen.' ■* Mr. Compton — one with whom Emma's kindness in the trying ilays of the revolution always remained — wrote of Napoleon to her : ' He is at Marseilles, and I think his political abilities, his skill in corrupting Generals, etc., are more to be dreaded than even his military talents.' — Morrison MS., November i, 1799. * On these matters fresh light is thrown by a new letter from Ball of Decern ber I, 1799. Add. MS. 34,915, ff 3, 105. 3i6 EMMA. LADY HAMILTON would shoot them first and myself afterwards.' ^ Troubridge was equally emphatic.^ The Maltese deputies lodged under Emma's roof. She was their ' Ambassadress.' It was not long- before Emma's services in this matter were publicly recognised by the Czar, as Grand Master of the Maltese Knights. When he bestowed the Grand Cross on Nelson and on Ball, he also bestowed it on Lady Hamilton, with a special request to the King of England for his licence to wear it there, the only occasion, as she was ever proud to relate, that it had ever been conferred upon an Englishwoman.^ This order she wore next year at Vienna, and it still figures in a portrait of her taken there, as well as in a drawing of her in 1803 by Sir Thomas Lawrence. She was styled ' Dame Chevaliere of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem,' and from this time forward Ball always addressed her as 'sister.'* But the Maltese embroilments were by no means the sole annoyances that distracted Nelson's sensitive nature. ^ Laughton's Despatches, p. 230. ■■^ Cf. Add. MS. 34,915. f- 60, Troubridge to Nelson; and cf. further his letters cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 339, 343. ^ Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 271. The vexed question of whether she spent as much as ;^5000 on this matter scarcely repays investigation. The fact remains that her services were sufficient for imperial recognition, and that the King of England allowed her to wear the order on her return. Her own account in a letter to Greville, hitherto uncited, is this : ' I have rendered some service to the poor Maltese. I got them ten thousand pounds, and sent corn when they were in distress. '—^e/jow Letters, vol. i. p. 277. Her Prince Regent's Memorial alleges details : ' I received the deputies, open'd their dispatches, and without hesitation I went down to the port to try what could be done. I found lying there several vessels loaded with corn for Ragusa. I immediately pur- chased the cargoes : . . . this service Sir Alexander Ball in his letters to me, as well as to Lord Nelson, plainly states to be the means whereby he was enabled to preserve that important island. I had to borrow a considerable sum on this occasion, which I since repaid, and -with my own private money this expended was nothing short of ;^sooo.'— Morrison MS. 1046. The passage to which she refers may be Ball's letter to Macaulay of March 22, 1800 (Petti- grew, vol. i. p. 341). Ball writes: 'I am convinced that but for their \i.e. the Hamiltons, his last mention being of Emma] influence with their Sicilian Majesties, the poor Maltese would have been starved.' I think she would hardly invoke and quote a letter from a living witness, if the substance of this claim were not the fact. Hamilton was ill and languid in the extreme at this time, and she could have borrowed the sum from many. Yet the critics have assumed that she, like ' the several vessels,' was '/j/z^^ there.' * Cf. his letter of congratulation, Morrison MS. 462, February 27, 1800. HOMEWARD BOUND 317 He was stung to the quick by the Admiralty's complaints and suspicions. 'As a junior Flag officer/ . . . without secretaries,^ etc.,' he wrote home, ' I have been thrown into a more extensive correspondence than ever perhaps fell to the lot of any Admiral, and into a political situation, I own, out of my sphere. ... It is a fact that I have never but three times put my feet on the ground since December 1798, and except to the court, that till after 8 o'clock at night I never relax from my business.' ' Do not,' he breaks out to Lord Spencer, ' let the Admiralty write harshly to me — my generous soul cannot bear it, being conscious that it is entirely unmerited ' ; and, once more, to Commissioner Inglefield, 'You must make allowances for a worn-out, blind, left-handed man.'^ Nor was he least tormented by the growing passion of his heart. His utterances are despondent. The East India Company had voted ten thousand pounds in token of their gratitude. Two thousand pounds of it he bestowed on his relations ; the whole was placed at his wife's disposal.* ' I that never yet had any money to think about, should be surprised if I troubled my head about it,' he told his old intimate and business manager, Davison (the rich con- tractor of St. James's Square), whom, after the Nile battle,^ he had appointed agent for his scanty prize-money. ' In my state of health, of what consequence is all the wealth of this world? I took for granted that the East India Company would pay their noble gift to Lady Nelson ; and whether she lays it out in house or land, is, I assure you, a matter of perfect indifference to me. . . , Oh ! my dear friend, if I have a morsel of bread and cheese in comfort it is all I ask of kind Heaven, until I reach the estate of six foot by two which I am fast approaching.'^' It was not long before Maltese successes had quite restored his spirits, and Ball could write to say how happy it made him to think that ' His Grace ' could enjoy exercise in company with the ^ He did not long so remain, for he was appointed to the chief command of the Mediterranean by Lord Keith almost immediately. - Tyson, however, as well as Emma, was acting informally in that capacity. Cf. Add. MS. 34,915, f. III. ^ All cited by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 298. * Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, f. 3. * Cf. Eg. MS. 2640, ft". 4 and 5. " Eg. MS. 2240, f. II ; and (partially) Laughton's Despatches, p. 214. 3i8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamiltons.^ All this is characteristic of a tense organisation by turns on the rack and on the rebound, yet with an evenness of patriotism and purpose immovable beneath its elasticity. Emma's fever of enthusiasm showed no abatement. She immediately gave Nelson the pine-appled teapot which has this year been generously presented with other relics to the Greenwich Painted Chamber. His letters to her breathed an affectionate respect. ' May God almighty bless you,' one of them closes, ' and all my friends about you, and believe me amongst the most faithful and affectionate of your friends.' - Was she not the ' Victory ' who had crowned him with honour? He reposed such confidence in the Hamiltons that during his absences he empowered them to open all his letters. But already there appeared a seamier side to Emma's heroic gloss. The unreinstated Queen still ailed in health and spirits. She had set her heart on accompanying the King to Naples in his projected visit this November, yet he had flatly refused. She seems to have turned from the pious devotions which after her darling boy's death had engrossed her to the delirium of play. The King loved his quiet rubber,^ but he was no gambler. The Queen gambled furiously — all her moods were extreme ; she was a medley of passions. She had been Emma's lucky star, but all along her evil genius. Emma for the first time was bitten by the mania. Sir William's fortunes were crippled ; she might sometimes be seen nightly with piles of gold beside her on the green baize. Troubridge bluntly remonstrated. His remonstrance, however, he added, did not arise from any ' impertinent interference, but from a wish to warn you of the ideas that are going about,' and to 'the con- struction put on things which may appear to your Ladyship innocent, and I make no doubt done with the best inten- tion. Still, your enemies will, and do, give things a different colouring.'* To his delight, she promised him to play no more. For a while that promise lasted, but I fear for a while only. Women of Emma's buoyancy and volatile salt 1 Add. MS. 3495, f- 55- - Morrison MS. 392. 2 Lord William Bentinck dwells on this feature in his account of his residence as Ambassador at Palermo in 1806. ■• Morrison MS. 441. HOMEWARD BOUND 319 are not easily weaned from the false flutter of such a game. All along her vein had been one of thrill under uncertainty, and her whole course a cast for high stakes. ' I wish not to trust to Dame Fortune too long,' wrote Nelson to her in probable allusion ; ' she is a fickle dame, and I am no courtier.' And reports — many of them untrue and all exaggerated — were beginning to filter into England and affront the regularities of red-tape. Nelson was depicted as Rinaldo in Armida's bower. It was rumoured that, while on shore, he assisted, heavy-eyed, at these revels till the small hours of the morning, though his father at the time was lying seriously unwell, — as a matter of fact he seldom touched a card.^ That Sir William and he had nearly settled differences by duel — a preposterous invention. That she played with Nelson's money to the tune of ^500 a night — a canard easily refuted by his banking account. That the royal presents to her had amounted to a value five times greater than it really was. That the singers whom Emma was constantly befriending and recommending were a byword for their scandalous behaviour. It never crossed her mind that anybody wished her ill. Both the Hamiltons and Nelson had been living in an isolated fool's paradise of popularity, remote from the canons or the realities of England. They hugged the illusion of home popularity. Unpopularity, whether deserved or due to envy or ill-nature, usually comes as a shock and a surprise to those who have provoked it far less than Lady Hamilton. She had long passed the patronage of that English society which only condones in a parvenue what it can patronise. It now resented her intrusion, while it resented more, and with better reason, her perpetual association with Nelson. Indeed, the Admiralty were beginning to pry into her and Nelson's correspondence,- while the Government had now decided to recall Hamilton. ' You may not know,' Trou- bridge had told her, 'that you have many enemies. I therefore risk your displeasure by telling you. I am much ' The apocryphal yJ/i?w^«>5 of Lady HamiUo7t (i%i^) give an imaginary con- versation between Troubridge and Nelson, rebuking him for his high play at Palermo. ■■* Cf. inter alia Morrison MS. 452; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 299. 320 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON gratified you have taken it, as / meant it — purely good. You tell me I must write you all my wants. The Queen is the only person who pushes things ; you must excuse tne ; I trust nothing there,' he continues with personal soreness, 'nor do I, or ever shall ask from the court of Naples any- thing but for their service, and the just demands I have on them.' His motives leak out in the concluding sentences about Lord Keith : '. . . I should have been a very rich man if I had served George III. instead of the King of Naples. . . . The new Admiral, I suppose, will send us home — the new hands will serve them better, as they will soon be all from the north, full of liberality and generosity, as all Scots are with some exceptions' Emma's own account ^ deserves to be cited also. It occurs in a letter to Greville, hitherto unnoticed, is perfectly truthful, and seeks to pro- tect not herself, but her husband and Nelson: — 'We are more united and comfortable than ever, in spite of the infamous Jacobin papers jealous of Lord Nelson's glory and Sir William's and mine. But we do not mind them. Lord N. is a truly vertuous and great man ; and because we have been fagging, and ruining our health, and sacrificing every comfort in the cause of loyalty, our private characters are to be stabbed in the dark. First it was said Sir W. and Lord N. fought ; then that we played and lost. First Sir W. and Lord N. live like brothers ; next Lord N. never plays : and this I give you my word of honour. So I beg you will contradict any of these vile reports. Not that Sir W. and Lord N. mind it ; and I get scolded by the Queen and all of them for having suffered one day's uneasiness.' Yet she was by no means the slave of her new excite- ment. She tried to heal old wounds, she corresponded with diplomatists ; 2 she could not relinquish her part of 1 Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 269, Lady Hamilton to Greville, F'ebruary 29, 1800. For Troubridge's letters, Morrison MS. 441, January 4, iSoo ; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 339 (where it is misdated). It will be found later on that Troubridge, who owed all to Nelson, received a regular pension from the King. For the preceding generally, cf. ibid. pp. 296 et seq., 323 (the Queen's letters to Emma of October), and p. iT^et seq. (those of the early part of the next year); p. 312 (Nelson's letter), Morrison MS. 420-437 passifu ; Minto Life and Letters, vol. ii. p. 138 (Lady Minto to Lady Malmesbury). ' The future Lord Minto wrote her long epistles from Vienna about affairs J HOMEWARD BOUND 321 female politician, the less so as Hamilton had now settled to return home on the first opportunity, and the Queen was desolated at the mere thought of separation.^ The Duchess of Sorrentino besought her good offices from Vienna, and in urging her suit Emma abused the King so roundly, that in his umbrage he turned violently both on her and the Queen. A heated scene ensued — so heated, indeed, that the monarch demanded Emma's death and threatened to throw her out of the window for her contempt of court.^ Nelson's acting chief command expired on January 6, 1800. Ill, and with a fresh murmur of ' unkindness,' he put himself under Lord Keith's directions at Leghorn.^ The blockade of Malta, which had lasted over a year, the as yet uncaptured remnant of the French squadron from the Nile, the resolve that the French army should not be suffered to quit Egypt — these were the objects, now shared with Emma, of his thoughts and of his dreams. He deter- mined to run the risk of independent action.* To Malta he proceeded instantly, and he was transported with joy when he captured Le Genereux^ though he had yet to wait for the eventual surrender of the single remaining frigate to his officers. ' I feel anxious,' he wrote in February to Emma, during his constant correspondence with the Hamiltons, ' to get up with these ships, and shall be unhappy not to take them myself, for first my greatest happiness is to serve my gracious King and Country, and I am envious only of glory ; for if it be a sin to covet glory, I am the most offending soul alive. But here I am in a heavy sea and thick fog ! — Oh God ! the wind subsided — Austrian and domestic : in one of them lie says, ' God bless you, my dearest Lady Hamilton ' (it is wonderful how much ' God-blessing ' pervades the period), ' lay mc at the proper feet.' — Morrison MS. 436, November 2, 1799. ' Morrison MS. 424, 484. In the first Hamilton tells Greville 'the Queen is really so fond of Emma that the parting will be a serious business.' In the second, ' Emma is in despair at the thought of parting from the Queen.' Emma herself says, '. . . I am miserable to leave my dearest friend. She cannot be consoled.' — Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 272. - Cf. the Duchess's letter and the Queen's transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 300, 377. He became excellent friends, however, with her afterwards, and sent pleasant messages to her so late as 1S04. •• January 20. * Cf. Laughton's Despatches, p. 234. X 322 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON but I trust to Providence I shall have them. Eighteenth, in the evening, I have got her — Le Gencreiix — thank God ! twelve out of thirteen, only the Guillaume Telle remaining ; I am after the others. I have not suffered the French Admiral to contaminate the Foiidroyant by setting his foot in her.'^ By the end of March the end of the Maltese blockade was in sight, and Nelson was back again in Palermo.^ His health was so ' precarious,' that he ' dropped with a pain in his heart,' and was 'always in a fever.' Troubridge was deputed to finish the Maltese operations. When Nelson heard of the capture of the Guillaume Telle through Long and Blackwood, his cup of thankfulness ran over, and his despatch to Nepean is a Nunc dimittis!^ 'Pray let me know,' wrote Ball from Malta in March, ' what Sir William Hamilton is determined on ; he is the most amiable and accomplished man I know, and his heart is certainly one of the best in the world. I wish he and her Ladyship would pay me a visit ; they are an irreparable loss to me. ... I long to know Lord Nelson's determina- tion.' Ball had not long to wait. Nelson was anxious to settle affairs finally for Great Britain at Malta,* — a settle- ment that eventually transferred it to Britain and greatly exasperated Maria Carolina. Sir William had now been definitely superseded by his unwelcome successor, Paget, although he was allowed to indulge the hope of a future return.^ He resolved to sail on the Foudroyant, accom- panied by his friends and the indispensable poetess. Miss Knight. On April 23 they proceeded from Palermo to Syracuse — the scene of Emma's triumph by the waters of Arethusa. Her birthday was celebrated on board by toasts and songs. On May 3 they again set sail and anchored in St. Paul's Bay before the next evening. Hitherto only rumour had been busy with Nelson's ^ Morrison MS. 456, Nelson to Lady Hamilton, February i8, 1800. This was the passage a copy of which Sir William, in admiration, forwarded to Lord Grenville. All this time, too, Tyson was continually communicating with Emma. Lord Keith irritated Nelson afresh by claiming some of the credit. '•^ On March 16, ^ Laughton's Despatches, p. 237, and cf. liis letter to Lady H. of March 4 ; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 338. * La Valetta did not actually surrender to the blockade till the end of August. * Cf. Morrison ^LS. 444. HOMEWARD BOUND 323 philanderings. Lord St. Vincent persisted to the last in saying that he and Emma were only a simpering edition of Romeo and Juliet — 'just a silly pair of sentimental fools.' And at this time Sir William seems to have thought the same ; it was all Emma's ' Sensibility,' all Nelson's loyal devotion. He was the idol of them both. But this voyage southward under the large Sicilian stars marks the climax of that fence of passion, the first approaches, the feints, parries, and thrusts of which I have sought to depict. The ' three joined in one,' as they called themselves, had long been unsevered. From the date of the Malta visit, as events prove, the liaison between the two of the trio ceases to be one of hearts merely. The Mediterranean has been the cradle of religion, of commerce, and of empire. On the Mediterranean Nelson had won his spurs and ventured his greatest exploit ; on it had happened the rise of Emma's passion and his own, and it was now to be the theatre of their fall.^ It has been well said that apologies only try to excuse what they fail to explain, and any apology for the bond which ever afterwards united them would be idle. Yet a few reflections should be borne seriously in mind. The firm tie that bound them, they themselves felt eternally binding ; no passing whim had fastened it, nor any madness of a moment. They had plighted a real troth which neither of them ever either broke or repented. Both found and lost themselves in each other. Their love was no sacrifice to lower instincts ; it was a true link of hearts. Nelson would have adored Emma had she not been so beautiful.'- She worshipped him the more for never basking in court or official sunshine. And their passion was lasting as well as deep. Not even calumny has whispered that Emma was ever unfaithful even to Nelson's memory ; and Nelson held their union, though unconsecrated, as wholly sacred and unalterable. If the light of their torch was not from heaven, at least its intensity was undimmed. Their worst wrong, however, was to the defied and wounded ' From a passage, however, in a letter from Nelson of February 17, iSoi, it would seem to have happened earlier. Cf. Morrison MS. 516: ' Ah ! my dear friend, I did rcmemlicr well the I2th February, and also the two months after- wards. I never shall forget them, and never be sony for the consequences.' - Cf. the pass-igc f|uoted post, in chap. xii. 324 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON wife. Cold letters had already reached Nelson, and rankling words may already have been exchanged ; Lady Nelson's jealousy was justified, although as yet Nelson never medi- tated repudiation. Emma had no scruple in hardening his heart and her own towards one whom she had offended unseen and unprovoked ; she would suffer none to dispute her dominion. Under her spell, Nelson perverted the whole scale of duty and of circumstance. In his enchanted eyes wedlock became sacrilege, and passion a sacrament; his insulted Fanny seemed the insulter ; his Emma's dishonour, honour. The woman who had failed to nerve or share his genius, turned into an unworthy persecutress and ter- magant ; she who had succeeded, into the pattern of womankind. The mistress of his home was confronted by the mistress of his heart, Vesta by Venus ; nor did he for one moment doubt which was the interloper. Unregener- ateness appeared grace to his warped vision. Nothing but sincerity can extenuate, nothing but sheer human nature can explain these deplorable transposals. The reality for him of this marriage of the spirit without the letter, blinded both of them to all other realities outside it. Emma's few surviving letters to him are those of an idolising wife. One unfamiliar sentence from one of his, written within a year of this period, speaks volumes : ' I worship, nay, adore you, and if you was single, and I found you under a hedge, I would instantly marry you.' ^ But the part of Sir William in this strange alliance formed, perhaps, its strangest element. Throughout, even after Greville and the caricatures in the shop windows must have opened his eyes, he deliberately shut them. He never ceased his attachment to Emma or abated his chival- rous fealty to Nelson. Those feelings, incredible as it may sound, were genuinely reciprocated by both of them. He seems almost to have more than accepted that veil of mystification with which the next year was to shroud their intimacy. Indeed, it was Emma's care for Nelson's career, and Nelson's for her good name, that constrained the fiction. That a woman should join a daughter's devo- tion to an old husband with a wife's devotion to the lover ^ Morrison MS. 539, Nelson to Lady H., March 6, 1800. //«/'/ / '.r HOMEWARD BOUND 325 of her choice, is a phenomenon in female psychology. Swift towards Stella and Vanessa, Goethe towards Mina and Bettina, are not the only men who have cherished a dual constancy ; but, as a rule, the woman inconstant to one will prove inconstant to many others. Miss Knight noticed how low-spirited Emma seemed on the return passage to Palermo.^ Indeed, the familiar stanzas of her composing, ' Come, cheer up, fair Emma ' " — a line often repeated in Nelson's later letters — were prompted by this unaccountable melancholy.^ Such dispirit- ment could not betoken the mood of an adventuress in- triguing to secure a successor to the fading Hamilton. Yet such was Sir Gilbert Elliot's assertion two years later.* It is curious that the imputers of craft always deny her a spark of cleverness, and they must certainly have thought Nelson much stupider than themselves. Worldlings do not always know the world, still less the world of such a complex heart as Emma's. Her feelings may perhaps be ' Cf. Miss Ellis Cornelia Knight's Autobiography (iS6i). * They are not very good : — ' Come, cheer up, fair Emma, forget all thy grief, For thy shipmates are brave and a hero 's their chief. Look round on these trophies, the pride of the Main, They were snatched by their valour from Gallia and Spain. Chorus : Hearts of Oak, etc. Behold yonder fragment, 'tis sacred to fame, 'Mid the waves of old Nile it was saved from the flame : The flame that destroyed all the glories of France When Providence vanquished the friends of blind chance. Chorus: Hearts of Oak, etc' The last verse runs : — ' Then cheer up, fair Emma, remember thou 'rt free, And ploughing Britannia's old empire — the sea : How many in Albion each sorrow would check, Could they kiss l)ut one plank of this conquering deck. Chorus : Hearts of Oak, etc' ^ Nelson, writing to I-ady Hamilton in the following year (only three days before Horatia's birth), says : ' When I consider that this day nine months was your birthday, and that although we had a gale of wind, yet I was happy and sang "Come, cheer up, fair Emma," etc., even the thoughts compared with this day make me melancholy.' — Morrison MS. 503, January 26, 1801. ■• Cf. Minto Life and Letters, vol. iii. p. 242. ' She looks ultimately to the chance of marriage,' etc. Lady Nelson at this time was exceedingly unlikely to shuffle oft' the coil. 326 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON best imaged by her little poem sent to Nelson at the open- ing of his last year on earth. ' I think I have not lost my heart, Since I with truth can swear, At every moment of my life, I feel my Nelson there. If from thine Emma's breast her heart Were stolen or thrown away, Where, where should she my Nelson's love Record, each happy day ? If from thine Emma's breast her heart Were stolen or flown away, Where, where should she engrave, my Love, Each tender word you say ? Where, where should Emma treasure up Her Nelson's smiles and sighs. Where mark with joy each secret look Of love from Nelson's eyes ? Then do not rob me of my heart, Unless you first forsake it ; And then so wretched it would be, Despair alone will take it.' ' In these lines, surely, there is a ring of 'les lartnes dmis la voix.' In sixteen days the Maltese episode was over, but Palermo was not reached for eleven days more. Nelson had pleaded complete exhaustion as his reason for being unable to continue at present in his subordinate command. Lord Spencer sent him a dry and suspicious answer. Nelson desired to recruit his health at home. He bemoaned the supineness of those who might have prevented the fresh invasion of Italy. Already he had bidden his friend Davison to announce his impending return to Lady Nelson: ' I fancy,' the mutual friend wrote to her, 'that your anxious mind will be relieved by receiving all that you hold sacred and valuable.'^ She 'alternated between a menace and a sigh.' But she was not to behold him so soon as had been expected, or to test the truth of what had been darkly ^ Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 127. 2 Morrison MS. 490, Davison to Lady Nelson, May 9, iSoo. J HOMEWARD BOUND 327 hinted. The Hamiltons were to be his companions, and the Queen had for the last three months been preparing a plan for their joint convenience. Now wholly bereft of her power over and the affection of her husband,^ vainly exert- ing herself to induce Lord Grenville to retain Hamilton at his post, dreading that England would withdraw her fleet, suspicious, too, that Britain might rob the Sicilies of Malta, she resolved, in her isolation, to visit her relatives at Vienna, after a private and political visit to Leghorn. The three princesses and Prince Leopold were to go with her, and Prince Castelcicala, bound on a special mission to the Court of St. James, was to head the train of a numerous suite. The French were now once more beginning to defeat the Austrians, and she longed to set off before it might be too late. What so natural as that the Tria juncta in uno should accompany her till the inevitable wrench of parting? One of her letters to Emma three months previously reveals at once the state of her own perplexed and perplex- ing mind, her reliance on Emma's counsel, and the cause of Castelcicala's mission. So much depends on the point of view. Throughout, hers had been utterly alien to the average Englishwoman's : — ' My dear Lady, — I have been compelled by a painful affair to delay my reply, and I write this, my dear friend, in great pain. . , . Do you remember that on Tuesday evening I asked you if you had received any letter ; you told me no : my eyes filling with tears, I was obliged to leave you I wrote that I was dreadfully depressed. ... I send you the substance of my letter from Circello.^ The official one seems to contain no more, but as this fatal packet from Paget ^ appears to hinge upon our not being left here with- out a minister during your husband's absence, I think it may yet be remedied. I am in despair. I am excessively angry with Circello for not having more strongly opposed it, and if you, my good, honest, true friends, quit us, let ' Ferdinand was now trimming once more under the rumours afloat of a restoration of monarchy in France. Cf. Morrison MS. 444. - Ambassador in London. •• Sir William's so-called temporary successor. He was a stop-gap for Elliot, who in his turn was replaced by Amherst, and he by Bentinck. 328 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON them leave Keith in the Mediterranean. We begin by losing you, our good friends, then our hero Nelson, and finally, the friendship and alliance of England ; for a young man [Circello] liable to misbehave himself through the temptations of wrong-headed men who will induce him to abuse his power, will not be tolerated, and troubles will arise from it. I grieve to cause you uneasiness ; my own is concealed, but bitterly felt. I send you, my good friend, the original from Circello. Do not let Campbell see it, or know that you have seen it, and return it to-morrow morn- ing. . . . Suggest to me what should be done to prevent this misfortune . . . both for the State and for my feelings. . . . I will do whatever you counsel me. . . . Do not afflict yourself Tell the Chevalier I have never felt till now how much I am attached to him, how much I owe him. My eyes swim with tears, and I must finish by begging you to suggest to me what to do, and believe that all my life happy or wretched, wherever it may be, I shall be always your sin- cere, attached, tender, grateful, devoted, sorrowful friend.' ^ None the less, the anniversary of King George's birthday was celebrated with undiminished fervour at Palermo. Every member of the royal family addressed separate letters of compliment to Lady Hamilton. Their Anglo- mania still prevailed. Among these valedictions is a letter of less formal in- terest. Lady Betty Foster had commended a protegee — Miss Ashburner — to Emma's protection. She had married a Neapolitan, and, as Eliza Perconte, was now governess to one of the princesses. ' With me,' she says, 'the old Eng- lish proverb, "out of sight, out of mind," will never find a place.' ^ Emma had conciliated all but the Jacobins. Her unceremonious kindness had endeared her to many loving friends among the lowest as well as the highest. The sailors and the common people would have died for her. Her absence made a real void. Lord Bristol was now once more at Naples — it is a pity that the farewell of one so unaccount- able is missing. Prince Belmonte's, however, is not, though it was addressed from Petersburg to Vienna. ' I am so indebted ^ Transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 375. I have ventured to revise some of the translation. - Morrison MS. 492. HOMEWARD BOUND 329 to you,' he writes in English, ' and you deserve so much to be loved, that my gratitude and sincere friendship will last till my tomb. God bless you in your long travels.'^ Farewell was now said not only to Palermo, but to Italy. Nevermore did Emma behold ' the land of the cypress and myrtle,' the land of her hero's laurels, of her husband's adoption, of her own zenith. It often hereafter haunted her dreams. She, with her husband, mother, and Miss Knight, accom- panied the Queen and Nelson to Leghorn. They sailed on June 10, and anchored five days later, though Nelson's usual tempest prevented a landing for two days more. This marks the last of the Fondroyant for the chief actors in the memorable scenes of this and the previous year. It had proved a ship of history and of romance. Nelson had pressed the Government to put it at the Queen's disposal as far as Trieste, but it was promptly requisitioned for repairs: Mrs. Grundy, in the person of Queen Charlotte, had intervened. Bitterly disappointed, its barge's crew at once petitioned to be allowed to serve in any ship which their great Admiral might still choose for his homeward journey. The news that on July 1 1 Nelson had struck his flag spread consternation at Palermo. For three weeks more they all tarried at Leghorn. Nelson and his party met with a royal welcome, and were conducted in state to the Cathedral with the Queen. All received splendid memorials from Maria Carolina. Emma's was a diamond necklace with ciphers of the royal children's names intertwined with locks of their hair. The Queen, in presenting it, assured her that it was she who had been their means of safety. Nor were they safe at present. The French army was gradually advancing towards Lucca in their immediate neighbourhood. Nelson sent a line of assurance to Acton that till safety was secured and plans were settled, he would not desert the Queen. Emma was still paramount ; nor was it long before, and for the last time, she displayed that ready presence of mind, and power of popularity with crowds that had often astonished Maria Carolina, and contributed so much to Nelson's admiration. ' Morrison MS. 496. 330 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON She had armed the Lazzaroni at Naples, she harangued and pacified the insurgents at Leghorn.^ On July 17 they started together for Vienna by way of Florence, Ancona, and Trieste. This journey, with its after stages of fresh pomp and pageant at Prague, at Dresden, and at Hamburg, was the most ill-advised step that Nelson and the Hamiltons could have taken. Had they proceeded, according to their original plan, by sea, they would never have so irritated the motherland which, after long absence, they were all revisiting. They were, indeed, quite ignorant of the preju- dices which they would be called upon to combat. They deemed themselves children of the world by virtue of their association with great events, great persons, and a great career ; but of our island-world they had grown curiously forgetful. Well, indeed, would it have been for them if they had remembered. They had lived in a hot-house ; they were going into the fog.- They had long been closely isolated in an inner, as well as an outer, world of their own. Every one, except the detestable Jacobins, had hymned their praises. Nelson's supreme renown had coloured every word and every action. For them the Neapolitan and Sicilian court stood for every court elsewhere. As it had been with the allies of Britain, so would it prove in Britain itself. They hugged their illusions. They were aware, of course, of whispers and comments and suspicions, but these they derided as the makeshifts of envious busybodies.*^ Even now Sir William gave out that he would shortly return, a more youthful Ambassador than ever, though he was even ^ The scene is given by Pettigrew as well as Harrison. ^ Fogs, both mental and physical, are the expressions of Lord St. Vincent in his letter to Nelson of December 15, 1800, and of Beckford to Emma in one of November 24. Cf. Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 401, 403. Within a month of his arrival Nelson wrote, 'This place of London but ill suits my disposition.' ^ Sir Gilbert Elliot, writing from Vienna in March 1803, and hoping that Nelson, who was worn to a shadow, would take Malta before returning home, says : ' He does not seem at all conscious of the sort of discredit he has fallen into, or the cause of it, for he writes still not wisely about Lady Hamilton and all that. But it is hard to condemn and use ill a hero, as he is in his own element, for being foolish about a woman who has art enough to make fools of many wiser than an Admiral. . . . Sir William sends home to Lord Grenville the Emperor of Russia's letter . . . [about the Maltese decoration for the I HOMEWARD BOUND 331 more worn out than Nelson. He and Emma were under the wing of the greatest hero on earth, who had only to sound the trumpet of his fame for the ramparts of official Jericho to fall. Emma herself was in her most aggressive mood ; ' Nature ' certainly now outweighed * Sensibility ' : she would be an Ishmaelite in face of icy English officialism discrediting each of her words and suspecting her every step. She was at length conscious of what, in its very concealment, was about to rivet her for ever to her lover. She would brave it out with nerves of iron and front of brass, for that which other women were incapable of enduring, her strength and courage could achieve. At Vienna the Empress loaded Maria Carolina's intimate with attentions ; with the Ester- hazys she was the observed of all observers. The bitter parting with her Queen but nerved her to greater and louder demonstrations. When hushed diplomacy sneered and sniggered in pointedly remote corners, she raised her fine voice higher than ever to teach John Bull on the Continent a lesson of robustness. At the mere hint that English influence was hoping to dissuade the Saxon Elector from receiving one who was the friend of a Queen and an Empress, she protested, with a laugh, that she would knock him down. In the Saxon capital she braced herself to perform her Attitudes to perfection ; nobody should guess her real condition. She was ill at ease, and to mask it she was all retaliation and defiance. The finical got upon her nerves, and she on theirs. And, added to this, the tour itself combined the features of a royal progress and of a travelling show. At Vienna no attentions sufficed to prove the gratitude to Nelson, ay, and to Emma, of the Austrian house. Lady Elliot herself, an old ally, but the wife of an Ambassador who soon made up his mind never to 'countenance' her, stood her sponsor at the drawing-room. The Bathyanis vied with the Esterhazys. Maltese service]. All this is against them, but they do not seem conscious.' — Minto Life and Letters, vol. ii. p. 114. On p. 139 he inveighs against them for trying to get the Foiidroyant put at the disposal of the Queen of Naples. ' In his own element ' ! As if Sir Gilbert could have sat down to write in safety unless Nelson had worsted Napoleon ! It never seems to have crossed this prosaic busybody's mind that Emma could fall in love as well as Nelson ; or that the Czar might possibly know his own business. 332 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Emma was constantly with Maria Carolina at Schonbrunn as the tearful hour of separation approached. The Queen's parting letter/ which begins ' My dear Lady and tender friend,' contains one notable passage : ' May I soon have the consolation of seeing you again at Naples. I repeat what I have already said, that at all times and places, and under all circumstances, Emma, dear Emma, shall be my friend and sister, and this sentiment will remain unchanged. Receive my thanks once more for all you have done, and for the sincere friendship you have shown me. Let me hear from you ; I will manage to let you hear from me.' We shall see how Maria Carolina kept her word. It was said that Emma refused from her the offer of a large annuity. It has, of course, been denied that Emma was ever endued with the grace of refusal. But, quite apart from the natural pride of independence, which characterised her from her girlhood to her grave, it is certain that neither Hamilton nor Nelson would ever have permitted her to be the pen- sioner of a foreign court. Banquets and functions abounded, and they were not restricted to the court. Banker Arnstein — ' the Goldsmid,' as Lady Hamilton afterwards called him, ' of Germany ' — showered his splendours upon them. There were endless concerts, operas, entertainments, excursions, visits of cere- mony and of pleasure, shooting parties, water parties, and, it must be owned, parties of cards. One of their fellow- guests at St. Veit, a castle of the Esterhazys', has recorded his hostile impressions. He was the young Lord Fitzharris, a patrician of the genus Greville, and he may have lost his money in this encounter, and, possibly, his temper. ' Sunday, grand fireworks. Monday (the jour de fete), a very good ball. And yesterday, the chasse. Nelson and the Hamiltons were there. We never sat down to supper or dinner less than sixty or seventy persons, in a fine hall superbly illuminated ; in short, the whole in a most princely style. Nelson's health was drunk with a flourish of trum- pets and firing of cannon. Lady Hamilton is, without exception, the most coarse, ill-mannered, disagreeable woman we met with. The Princess with great kindness ' Transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 399. HOMEWARD BOUND 333 had got a number of musicians, and the famous Haydn, who is in their service, to play, knowing Lady H. was fond of music. Instead of attending to them, she sat down to the faro table, played Nelson's cards for him, and won between £s^o and ^400.^ . . .' - Haydn, it must be thought, was hardly a suitable accompaniment to cards. When, after Dresden with its fussy state and solemnity, they embarked on the Elbe for Hamburg, a stock pas- sage in the diaries of a charming woman relates how that other Elliot, who was minister here (there was always an Elliot), was pained to the quick of his refinement by the noise of Emma and her party ; how undignified Nelson's excitability appeared to him;^ how Sir William ' bobbed ' on ' his backbone,' with his ribbon flying, round the ballroom, to prove his septuagenarian nimbleness ; how he and his friends withdrew shuddering at the shock of these breaches of taste ; how relieved they were when bated breath was restored, and they were quit of these oddities and vulgarities ; how, when the Nelsonians at last got on board, they looked like a troupe of strolling players ; how Mrs. Cadogan immediately began to cook the Irish stew for which her daughter clamoured, while Emma herself roundly abused the French maid for neglecting her luggage. Most of this is probably true,^ but here again the point of view 1 Was il from Fitzharris ? - iMters of the First Earl of Malmcsbury, vol. ii. pp. 222 et seq. This is a hitherto uncited passage. ^ It is here insinuated that he got drunk. His nephew, Mr. Matchani, who remembered Nelson and Lady Hamilton together at Merton, lived to refute this slander in a telling pamphlet. Nelson, he said, was most moderate in his pota- tions, and always, when he met him as a lad, a quiet gentlhnan in a black suit. In that black suit, too, Mr. John Ilorsely tells in his Recollections that his father remembered him often going to the Moorfields Church to hear the singing Charity girls. * The Elliots good taste did not prevent them from discussing with I.ady Hamilton her chances of reception by Queen Charlotte. iNIrs. St. George was perhaps biassed by the Elliots (who, however, invited the whole party more than once to dinner) in the long account given in her fou>nal. She resented Emma's 'friendship at first sight,' and her enthusiasm over her accompaniments when she sang, though she praises her grace and her voice ; she even accused her of ' avarice ' without any foundation, and she abuses the coarseness of her maid. She is also inconsistent in her account of Hamilton ; and Mrs. Cadogan was ' what one would expect.' Cf. p. 75 et seq. 334 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON needs adjusting. Fastidiousness is as movable, and some- times as unbearable, a term as vulgarity, and no doubt the stiff Elliot would have been equally troubled at a violent sneeze, at any undue emphasis whatever, or infringement of etiquette. He had, it must be owned, good reason for being shocked at Emma's want of manners. But over-nicety has its own pitfalls also. There have been people who eat dry toast with a knife and fork. There are others who shiver at the stir of any unconventional footfall on the pile carpets of ' culture.' At any rate, nobody but Elliot ever reproached Sir William, a paragon of ' taste,' with violating the sem- blances of decorum. However we may regret Emma's unpolished 'coarseness,' at least this is true: blatant and self-assertive or not, she had certainly carried her own life and the lives of others in her hand. She had shown grit. The daughter of the servants' hall had braved crises without blenching. The son of the Foreign Office had never worked but with words, nor ever sacrificed himself except to the covnue ilfaut. But if Emma, at bay, thus misbehaved, whither were her inmost thoughts wandering? She was thinking of how she could carry matters through, of what would become of her poor Sir William. She was thinking of Greville's reception, of Romney and Hayley and Flaxman, and her old friends. And of those new friends which Nelson had promised and described to her ; of his pious and revered father, whose heart must be broken if ever he guessed the truth ; of his favourite brother Maurice, whose poor, blind ' wife,' ^ beloved and befriended by Nelson till she died, was no more his wedded partner than she was Nelson's ; of his eldest brother — the pompous and bishopric- hunting ' Reverend,' a schemer and a gourmand,- who added the sentimental selfishness of Harold Skimpole to the mock humility of Mr. Pecksniff ; of that brother's cheery, bustling little wife ; of their pet daughter Charlotte, whom the father always styled his ' jewel ' ; of the son already destined for the navy, and long afterwards designated by Nelson to J Mrs. Ford, called « Mrs. Nelson.' ■■* In one of his afler letters Nelson begs Emma to give him excellent fare — 'these big- wigs love a good dinner.' HOMEWARD BOUND 335 marry Horatia ; of his two plain-speaking, plain-living sisters — sickly Mrs. Matcham with her brood of eight, and a husband always absent, ever changing plans and abodes ; of Mrs, Bolton, more prosperous and more ambitious, with the two rather quarrelsome daughters for whom she coveted an entry into the world of ' deportment ' and fashion ; of Davison, the hero's fickle factotum, whom Nelson had already requested to find inexpensive lodgings in London.^ Beckford, the magnificent, had put his house in Gros- venor Square at the disposal of the Hamiltons. It was an offer of self-interest, for he was already manoeuvring to rehabilitate himself by bribing his embarrassed kinsman into procuring him a peerage, and the astute Greville sus- pected his generosity from the first.- Indeed he wrote to Sir Joseph Banks that he had warned his uncle of ' con- sequences,' and that he ' hoped to put him out of the line of ridicule,' even if he could not 'help him to the comfort and credit to which his character and good qualities entitle him.'^ At Vienna Emma had found Nelson yet another factotum in the person of the interpreter Oliver, who during the next five years was so often to be the depositary of their secret correspondence. From Dresden the Nelsonians repaired to Altona, from Altona to Hamburg. Their sojourn there was the most interesting of all, though it only lasted ten days,"* before the three embarked in the SL George packet-boat for London. There Emma, who had met the young poet Goethe, now met, and was appreciated by, the aged poet Klopstock. There Nelson met, and afterwards munificently befriended, the un- fortunate General Dumouriez. There the Lutheran pastor hastened many miles to implore the signature of the great man for the flyleaf of his Bible. Hamburg was enrap- tured over Emma's ' Attitudes ' and her personality, which 1 Eg. MS. 2240, t. 32. - Cf. Morrison MS. 497. * Cf. excerpt in Sotheby'.^ catalogue for May 17, 1905, Greville to Banks, September 24, 1800. Greville had been much cuncerncd at the Tria juncta in lino coming together from Vienna vie) Hamburg, ' with what they call the small reserve of their establishment ' to London. Cf. ibid., Greville to Banks September 1, 1800. ^ October 12-21. 336 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON called forth interesting books by two well-known authors.^ It was the more enraptured when the whole party witnessed a performance at the ' German Theatre.' Both Emma and Nelson exhibited their usual generosity towards the * poor devils' who applied to them. Another and a different experience may be also mentioned as indicating how really artless they were. A wine merchant of the city hastened to beg the hero's acceptance of his offering — six bottles of the rarest hock, dating from the vintage of 1625. Emma was warmly grateful, and urged Nelson to receive the present. Nelson took it with the thankful compliment that he would drink a bottle of it after each future victory, in 'honour of the donor.' ^ This 'respectable' wine merchant cannot have been so simple a bene- factor as he appeared. Hock one hundred and eighty years old must have been quite undrinkable, and only fit for a museum. And Nelson was wondering whether and how his wife would greet his arrival. When, on November 6, they reached Yarmouth, after such a storm that only he could force the pilot to land, that wife was absent from his enthusiastic welcomers. Amid the music, the bunting, the deputations that seized his one hand, the offended Fanny was missing. The carriage was dragged by the cheerers to the Wrestlers' Inn, before which the troops paraded. The whole party marched in state churchward to a service of thanksgiving ; the town was illuminated, his departure was escorted by cavalry; but the wife, no longer of his bosom, stayed in London with the dear old rector, who had hurried up to greet him from Burnham-Thorpe. The two days before the capital huzza'd him, his route was one triumphal proces- sion. His own Ipswich rivalled Yarmouth, and Colchester, Ipswich. But as the acclamations of the countryside rang in their ears, a single thought must have possessed the minds of Nelson and of Emma — the thought of Fanny. Nelson entered London in full uniform, with the three ' One by Meyer ; another, Skizzen zu einejii Gemcilde aus Hamburg, 1801-3, by F. H. Nestler. This information, and more from the contemporary news- papers, I owe to the kindness of INIr. Max Freund. - Harrison, vol. ii. p. 263. HOMEWARD BOUND 337 stars and the two golden medals on his breast.^ It was Sunday — a day which witnessed many of the crises in his career. They all drove together to Nerot's Hotel in King Street,- where Greville had already called to welcome his uncle, ailing and anxious about his pension. While Lady Hamilton disguised her tremor.Nelson was left alone with his proud father and the indignant wife, who had believed, and brooded over, every whisper against him — even the mali- cious slanders of the Jacobins. Joy could not be expected of her, but a word of pride in the achievements that had immortalised him, and won her the very title which she immoderately prized, she might surely have shown. Not a soft answer escaped her pinched lips. That night must have been one of hot entreaty on the one side, and cold recrimi- nation on the other. Her mind was thoroughly poisoned against him. He at once presented himself at the Admiralty, just as Hamilton, under Greville's tutelage, at once repaired to my Lord Grenville in Cleveland Row. Together the three attended the Lord Mayor's banquet the following night, when the sword of honour was presented, after the citizens of London, like those of Yarmouth, had unhorsed the car of triumph and themselves drawn it along the streets lined with applauding crowds, to the Mansion House. There also Lady Nelson was absent. Whether business or ovation detained him, the spectre abode in its cupboard. For a time their open breach was patched up, but nevertheless the distance between them widened. Nelson was to aggravate it by harping on Emma's virtues and graces till Fanny sickened at her very name. Nor could Emma's early and friendly approaches, in which Sir William joined, have been expected to bridge it over.^ ' Medals were struck to commemorate his return. On one side is the medallion ; on the reverse Britannia crowning his vessel with laurels. The legend round runs : ' Hail, virtuous hero ! Thy victories we acknowledge, and thy God.' And underneath, ' Return to England, November 5, 1800.' - This is evident from Greville's letter to Hamilton of November 9, 1800, Morrison MS. 497. It has usually I)een assumed that the Hamiltons drove straight to the house in Grosvenor Square which Beckford had lent them. •' Cf. a remarkable letter from Lady Hamilton to Lady Nelson, sold at Sotheby's in the May of this year (1905). It l)ears no date, but must refer to a time shortly after their return. The following is the excerpt in the catalogue : Y 338 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Emma soon resumed her post as his amanuensis, his companion, his almoner,^ his vade ineami. Nelson again accompanied the Hamiltons on their speedy visit to Font- hill, whose bizarre master desired to compound for a peerage with Sir William. PrM.'ts exist of the postchaise with postilions, flambeaux in hand, driving the Nelsonians into the Gothic archway of that fantastic demesne. Nelson may well have thought, ' Que diable allait-il faire dans cette galere ! ' Beckford had addressed his invitation to Emma in terms of extravagant flattery, to his ' Madonna della Gloria.' 2 He singled out, too, her performance as Cleopatra for critical and special admiration. Yet so insincere was he, that some forty years afterwards he not only belittled her beauty to Cyrus Redding, but claimed the entire brunt of service to Britain for Hamilton, while his ignorance of facts is shown by the egregious errors in his account.^ Nelson and Emma were always in evidence together. He ordered his wife to appear in public with himself and the Hamiltons at the theatre. Emma's sudden faintness, and Lady Nelson's withdrawal from their box with her, gave the wife the first inkling of a secret worse even than she had suspected. A violent scene is said to have occurred between the two women, and Lady Hamilton used to assert that Nelson wandered about all night in his misery, and presented himself early next morning to implore the comfort and the companionship of his friends. — ' I would have done myself the honour of calling on you and Lord Nelson this day, but I am not well nor in spirits. Sir William and myself feel the loss of our good friend, the good Lord Nelson. Permit me in the morning to have the pleasure of seeing you, and hoping, my dear Lady Nelson, the continuance of your friendship, which will be in Sir William and myself for ever lasting to you and your family.' And she closes by Sir William's proffer of any service possible. ^ Cf. the very curious application from the ' Kent Road ' to Emma of F. A. Fitz-Murray, 'natural son of the late Prince of Wales.' — Morrison MS. 498, November 17, 1800. He calls Nelson ' the Cresar of the age.' "^ ' In our addresses to superior beings it is quite in vain to flatter or dissemble. . . . You must shine steadily. . . . That light alone which beams from your image, ever before my fancy, like a vision of the Madonna della Gloria, keeps my eyes sufficiently open to subscribe myself with tolerable distinctness.' — Beckford to Emma. Cf. Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 405 ^ Cf. Cyrus Redding's Fifty Years of My Life, vol. iii. p. 103. HOMEWARD BOUND 339 Emma and Nelson continued all injured innocence. The circumstances of Horatia's birth in the January following were to be carefully veiled even from Horatia herself; nor were they ever proved till some fifty years afterwards, and even then generally disbelieved. Henceforward Nelson and his wife were strangers; further efforts at reconciliation failed.^ By the March of 1801 he had provided for and repudiated her. ' I have done,' he was to write, ' all in my power for you, and if I died, you will find I have done the same. Therefore, my only wish is to be left to myself, and wishing you every happiness, believe that I am your affec- tionate Nelson and Bronte.'^ On this 'letter of dismissal ' she endorsed her ' astonishment.' That astonishment must surely have been feigned. Without question, sympathy is her due. Without ques- tion she had been grievously wronged. But her bearing, both before she had reason to be convinced of the fact and afterwards, was such perhaps as to decrease her deserts. She seems to have been more aggrieved than heart-stricken. From this time forth she withdrew completely from every member of his family except Maurice" and the good old father. At Bath, or in London, she sulked and hugged her grievance, her virtue, her money, and her rank. She pro- ceeded— naturally — to babble of the woman who had injured her, and the husband of whom she had been despoiled. Nelson's brother and sisters, who accepted Emma, always entitled her ' Tom Tit,' nor would they concede a grain of true love to her disposition. That she was not the helpmeet for a hero was not her fault ; it was her drawback and mis- fortune. She failed in the temperament that understands temperament, and the spirit that answers and applauds. Her piety never sought to win back the wanderer. She incensed him by desiring even now to rent Shelburne House.* ' Through his brother Maurice. - Add. MS. 28,833, f. 3. •' It isonlyjust torecordherstatemcnlofhis 'altachmenl' to her, and his surprise that his brother seemed to have forgoUen himself. Cf. Add. MS. 28,333, f- 3- ■• Cf. a very interesting letter sold in the Sholto Hare collection from Nelson to Lady II., of January 24, 1801. Sec Sotheby's catalogue of August 1904. It has also been reprinted in an interesting article which appeared in the A7;/f (the author of which kindly forwarded it to me) of October 22, 1904. ' If she was to take Shelburne House,' he writes, * I am not, thank God, forced to live in it.' 340 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON She caused him to feel ' an outcast on shore.' ^ While she could have avenged her cause by suing for a divorce, she preferred to avenge herself on the culprits by their punish- ment in being barred from wedlock. After Nelson's death she litigated with his successor.^ This was Emma's doing, and Nelson's. They were both pitiless, while the other was implacable. Emma could be far tenderer than gentle. She was never a gentlewoman, nor was over-delicacy her foible. Her ' Sensibility ' did not extend to her discarded rival, whose very wardrobe she could handle, at Nelson's bidding, and return. She rode rough-shod over poor Lady Nelson's discomfiture. ' Tom Tit,' she told Mrs. William Nelson in the next February, 'does not come to town. She offered to go down, but was refused. She only wanted to go to do mischief to all the great Jove's relations. 'Tis now shown, all her ill treatment and bad heart. Jove has found it out.'^ It is a sorry, but hardly a sordid spectacle. Rather it is, in a sense, volcanic.^ Here is no barter, no balance of interests or convenience. It is a passionate convulsion, which uprooted the wife. I can but vary the apophthegm already quoted : ' Apologies only try to explain what they cannot undo.' ^ Add. MS. 34,274, f. G. In the following August he wrote : ' Whatever Sir Thomas Troubridge may say, I have no real friends out of your house.' — Cf. extract in Sotheby's catalogue of August 1904. •^ Add. MS. 34,992, ff. 152, 153, 155- ^ Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 38-40, one of the new letters transcribed in the Appendix, Part 11. B. ■• On January 25 following Nelson wrote to her : ' Where friendship is of so strong a cast as ours, it is no easy matter to shake it. Mine is as fixed as Mount Etna, and as warm in the inside as that mountain.' — Petiigrew, vol. i. p. 416. i Y\l G^^^t^?^?9Z' a: I CHAPTER XII FROM PICCADILLY TO * PARADISE ' MERTON 1801 It was not long before the Hamiltons were installed in a new abode, No. 23 Piccadilly, one of the smaller houses fronting the Green Park. Sir William had been querulous over the loss of so many treasures in the Colossus — among them the second version of Romney's ' Bacchante,' which has never to this day reappeared. Most of their furniture had been rifled by French Jacobins. Emma promptly sold enough of her jewels to buy furniture for the new mansion, and these purchases were afterwards legally assigned to her by her husband.^ Among the first visitors to their new home were Hayley and Flaxman, whom Emma had eagerly invited. A letter from the latter to the former commemorates an interesting little scene. As they entered. Nelson was just leaving the room. ' Pray stop a little, my Lord,' exclaimed Sir William ; ' I desire you to shake hands with Mr. Flaxman, for he is a man as extraordinary, in his way, as you are in yours. Believe me, he is the sculptor who ought to make your monument.' 'Is he?' replied Nelson, seizing his hand with alacrity; 'then I heartily wish he may."' And eventually he did. This year was to link her and Nelson for ever. It was ' The deed was in Irust to Davison on February 4, 1801. Morrison MS. 506. Tile original assignment was sold at Sotheby's in July 1905. - Cf. the two letters from Lady Hamilton to Flaxman (promising to call on his wife), and from Flaxman to Hayley (recalling the incident), of 1800 and 1805 respectively, sold in -May 1905 at Sotheby's, and excerpted from the catalogue in the Appendix, Part 11. C. (i l) and {12). Flaxman also executed a bust which Nelson's famil\ ilcclared to be the sole speaking likeness of the hero. 341 342 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the year of Horatia's birth, of the Copenhagen victory, of the preliminaries to the acquirement of Merton. 'Sooner shall Britain's sons resign The empire of the sea ; Than Henry shall renounce his faith And plighted vows to thee ! And waves on waves shall cease to roll, And tides forget to flow, Ere thy true Henry's constant love Or ebb or change shall know.' ^ — ' I want but one true heart ; there can be but one love, although many real well-wishers,' is his prose version in a hitherto unpublished letter.- These were the refrains of all this year, and, indeed, of the little span allotted to Nelson before he was no more seen, Emma had an ordeal to pass through with a light step and a bright face. She had forfeited the comfort of that sense of innocence which she had welcomed ten years before. She awaited Nelson's child, and none but her mother and Nelson were to know it. She was to seem as if nothing chequered her dance of gaiety. Old friends flocked around her. Greville was a constant caller, curious about her, vigilant over his uncle. Her old supporter, Louis Dutens, was also in attendance. She must have visited the stricken Romney, who pined for the sight of her ; ^ Hayley and Flaxman we have seen in her company. There was Mrs. Denis, too, her singing friend at Naples, and the hardly used Mrs. Billington. And — for she was always loyal to them — she delighted in beholding or hearing from her humble kindred again : the Connors, the Reynoldses,* 1 Nelson's verses enclosed in his lelter to Emma of February ii, 1801 ; Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 30. - Add. MS. 34,274 ^^ ' Romney sent, by her request, an old portrait of her for her mother. On December 13, 1800, when in declining health, he wrote to Hayley: 'The pleasure I should receive from a sight of the amiable Lady Hamilton would be as salutary as great, yet I fear, except I should enjoy more strength and better spirits, I shall never be able to see London again.' — Hayley's Life, pp. 208, 297. Romney was now at Hampstead. It was probably about this lime that he drew and painted Nelson. * At Sotheby's last year was sold a letter addressed by her to ' Mr. Reynolds,' apparently in this very January. I PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 343 the Moores of Liverpool ; ^ and that daughter, long ago wrenched from her by Greville, Emma ' Carevv.' And there were Bohemian refugees from Naples, the Banti among their number, who in after days were less than grateful to their impetuous patroness. New friends also pressed for her acquaintance. There was Nelson's * smart ' relative Mrs. Walpole, a fribble of fashion in the Prince of Wales's set, Mrs. Udney and a Mrs. Nisbet, with their frivolous on-hangers. But, more acceptable than these, were Nelson's country sisters and sister-in-law, who loved her at first sight and never relinquished their friendship. With her soul of attitudes, she must have felt herself in a double mood — heroic under strain, and laughtersome at care. The artistic and musical world raved of her afresh ; they might well now have celebrated her both as * La Penserosa ' and ' L'Allegra.' It was about this time that Walter Savage Landor sang of her — 'Gone are the Sirens from their sunny shore, The Muses afterwards were heard no more, But of the Graces there remains but one — Gods name her Emma, mortals, Hamilton.' And perhaps too he remembered her when he wrote of Dido — ' Ill-starred Elisa, hence arose Thy faithless joys, thy steadfast woes.' Of old she had been praised for her tarantella.-^ Nothing more beautiful could be imagined, was Lady Malmesbury's verdict more than five years earlier. How was Emma now to trip it through heavy trial, and hide an aching heart with smiles and songs ? Misguided love lent her strength, and its misguidance found out the way. She was ready to sacrifice everything, and to forsake all for one whose absence must mean her own and her country's glory. Sir William, out of the saddle, was practically in hospital ; Nelson, practically in hospital, longed for the saddle once more. The Northern Coalition threatened a now isolated ' Cf. Mrs. Cadogan's letter, Murrison MS. 563. ■^ Cf. Minto Life and Letter s^ vul. i. p. loi. 344 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Britain with a stroke more formidable than the Southern had done formerly. Napoleon was exultant. Sir William, who really worshipped Nelson, and for whom Emma cared to the last,^ found himself none the less rather thankful that Nelson was off in search of fresh triumphs, and, with him, the disturbing clamour of hero-worship. He longed for his little fishing expeditions and picture hunts ; he was anxious about his pension,^ his late wife's property as well as the tatters of his own. So, committing with a sigh the racket of life to his demonstrative Emma, he resigned himself to the worldly wisdom of his calculating and still bachelor nephew, Greville, whose ruling motive had always been interest. Zeal was not in Greville's nature, but something like it coloured his coldness when- ever chattels were concerned. He was studiously respect- ful to Nelson. He was amiably attentive to his 'aunt' All the same, he was already tincturing Hamilton's mind with an alien cynicism ; he and Sir William were gradually forming a little northern coalition of their own. While he exerted himself in assiduously forwarding Sir William's claim on the generosity of the Government, he took good care to discourage any expenditure that might anticipate a chance so doubtful. Nelson was in a fever of impatience and suspense, for Emma, for his country — his two obsessions — for all but himself. He was ever a creaking door, but his health, though in his eagerness for action he protested it re- stored, was now beyond measure miserable. His eye grew inflamed, his heart constantly palpitated, his cough seemed the premonitor of consumption. And vexations, public as well as private, troubled him. The authorities, whether in the guise of Cato, or of Paul Pry, or of Tar- tuffe, hampered his every step, while the curs of office snapped about his heels. Added to this, he had been forced into a lawsuit — an * amicable squabble ' he terms it — with his admired and admiring Lord St. Vincent, who laid claim to the prize-money of victories won during his ^ Cf. Nelson's letter after his death in the Appendix, Part ii. D. (4) {a). ^ He wanted a real, not a nominal, ^2000 a year from Lord Grenville, and ;^8ooo compensation. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 345 absence. St. Vincent had retired into civil service, and was now the mainspring of the Admiralty, in which the new Sir Thomas Troubridge, who owed his rise entirely to Nelson,^ had also found the snuggest of berths. Both the men who had taught Nelson, and the men that he had taught, were setting up as his critics and often his spies. His coming expedition was to be a thirteenth labour of Hercules. Yet the tribe of cavillers could only insinuate (for aloud they dared not speak) of his dalliance with Omphale. At least they might have remembered that Nelson had saved them and his country, and that if his impulsiveness gave himself away to their self-satisfied ingratitude, he was at this moment called to give himself up on the altar of duty. On Hardy, and Louis, and the two Parkers, and Berry and Carrol, he could still count ; like all chivalrous leaders, he had his round table, and this was his pride and consolation. But it was also his solace to remain magnanimous, and even now he sent the most generous congratulations on his adversary's birthday,^ which were warmly and honourably reciprocated. He had hoped for supreme command, but Sir Hyde Parker was preferred : Nelson was only Vice- Admiral of the Blue. Scarcely had he been in London a fortnight when, with his brother William, he repaired to his flagship at Ports- mouth, to superintend the equipment of the fleet. He had already taken his seat in the House of Lords,^ though he had still to complain that his honours had not yet been gazetted.'* He had accompanied the Haniiltons on their Wiltshire excursion. He had nominated Hardy his cap- ' '. . . He ought to have recollected,' wrote Nelson on the Amazon next October, ' that I got him the medal of the Nile. Who upheld him when he would have sunk under grief and mortification ? Who placed him in such a situation that he got by my public letters. Titles, the Colonelcy of Marines, Diamond Boxes, looo ounces in money for no expenses that I know of? WTio got him ^500 a year from the King of Naples? And however much he may abuse him, his pension will l)e regularly paid. Who brought his character into notice? . . . Nelson, that Nelson that he now lords it over. So much for gratitude !' Cf. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 217. ' Laughton's Despatches, p. 244. ^ November 20, 1800. * It was in playful allusion to this that on February 6 he wrote to Lady Hamilton, ' Your letters are to me gazettes, for as yet I have not fixed upon any.' — Morrison MS. 509. 346 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON tain. On January 13 he quitted Emma, it might be for the last time, and with Emma he left both his new hopes and old ties. His wife, who had beaten her retreat to Brighton, he had now irrevocably renounced ; his mind was ' as fixed as fate,'^ and of none does the adage ' Vestigia nulla retrorsu7n ' hold good more than of Nelson ; it was not long before he wrote significantly, alluding to her West Indian extraction, ' Buonaparte's wife is of Martinique.' ^ Lady Nelson had made no advance, not the slightest attempt to provide him for the voyage. ' Anxiety for friends left,' he informed his ' wife before heaven ' the day af«:er he set out, ' and various workings of my imagination, gave me one of those severe pains of the heart that all the windows were obliged to be put down, the carriage stopped, and the perspiration was so strong that I never was wetter, and yet dead with cold.'^ And some days afterwards: 'Keep up your spirits, all will end well. The dearest of friends must part, and we only part, I trust, to meet again.' * By mid-January he had hoisted his flag on the Sait Josef. In March he was commanding the St. George, the vessel which, he wrote with exaltation, 'will stamp an additional ray of glory on England's fame, if Nelson survives ; and that Almighty Providence, who has hitherto protected me in all dangers, and covered my head in the day of battle, will still, if it be His pleasure, support and assist me.' ^ Emma had earned her lover's fresh admiration by steel- ing herself to undergo a test that would have prostrated even those who would most have recoiled from it. She and Nelson had resolved to hide from Sir William what was shortly to happen. But Emma would take no refuge in absence from home ; sh^ would stand firm and face guilt and danger under her own roof-tree. Though this trial might cost her life, she would be up and doing directly it was over. If for a few days she kept to her room with one of those attacks which had been habitual at Naples, who but her mother and herself need be the worse or the wiser? ^ Cf. his letter to Davism:, Eg. MS. 2240, f. 73.— 'I expect to be left to myself. ^ Cf. Nelson LetierSf vol. i. p. 43. ^ Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 409. ^ Morrison MS. 503. ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 32. To Lady Hamilton. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 347 The sudden blow of their parting under such circum- stances had been exceptionally severe. It recalls the famous line of Fenelon : ' Calypso ne pouvait pas se consoler du depart d'Ulysse.' In their mutual anxiety they framed a plan of corre- spondence, in which Emma and Nelson were to masquerade as the befrienders of a Mr. Thomson, one of his officers, distracted with anxiety about the impending confinement of his wife, who was bidden to entrust herself and the child to the loving guardianship and ' kind heart ' of Lady Hamilton. These secret letters were all addressed to ' Mrs. Thomson,' while Nelson's ordinary letters were addressed as usual to Lady Hamilton. Without some such dissimulation they could have very rarely corresponded, for their communica- tions were constantly opened ; and, even so, Hamilton's curiosity must have been often piqued by his wife's receipt of so many communications in Nelson's hand to this unknown friend. But they did manage to exchange fragments even more intimate than the interpolations in the body of these extraordinary ' Thomson ' letters. Not all these, nor all of such as he possessed, were given by Pettigrew in his con- clusive proof of Horatia's real origin.^ The Morrison Collection presents many of Pettigrew's documents in their entirety, and adds others confirming them ; so also do the less ample Nelsoji Letters, and others from private sources, which may serve for a supplement. Emma's agitated feelings must be guessed from Nelson's answers, for, as he assured her afterwards, he deliberately burned all her own ' kind, dear letters,' read and fingered over and over again ; any day his life might be laid down, and he feared lest they might pass into hostile hands. From one of hers, however, written at Merton a year later in commemoration of the victory he was now about to win, something of their tenor may be gathered : — 'Our dear glorious friend, immortal and great Nelson, ' Vol. ii. pp. 63S-656. The subject has never been better handled than here, and all subsequent discoveries bear out Pettigrew's evidence and arguments. Fresh proofs, among others, are afforded by Morrison MS. 509, 532, and it is noticeable that the ' Thomson ' lelters are resumed in connection vs ith the Prince of Wales episode, concerning Emma and Nelson alone. 348 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON what shall I say to you on this day ? My heart and feeling are so overpowered that I cannot give vent to my full soul to tell you, as an Englishwoman gratefull to her country's saviour, what I feel towards you. And as a much loved friend that has the happiness of being beloved, esteemed, and admired by the good and virtuos Nelson, what must be my pride, my glory, to say this day have I the happiness of being with him, one of his select, and how gratefull to God Almighty do I feel in having preserved you through such glorious dangers that never man before got through them with such Honner and Success. Nelson, I want Eloquence to tell you what I fell, to avow the sentiments of respect and adoration with which you have inspired me. Admiration and delight you must ever raise in all who behold you, looking on you only as the guardian of England. But how far short are those sensations to what I as a much loved friend feil ! And I confess to you the predominant sentiments of my heart will ever be, till it ceases to beat, the most unfeigned anxiety for your happiness, and the sincerest and most disinterested determination to promote your felicity even at the hasard of my life. Excuse this scrawl, my dearest friend, but next to talking with you is writing to you. I wish this day I . . . could be near for your sake. . . . God bless you, my ever dear Nelson. Long may you live to be the admiration of Europe, the delight of your country, and the idol of your constant, attached Emma.'^ She is ' still the same Emma.' A rhapsody of ' None but the brave deserve the fair ' rings in every line. It is melodrama, but genuine melodrama ; and melodrama of the heart, Nelson loved. It was what all along he had missed in his wife, who had lived aloof from his career ; whereas Emma and he had lived through its thrilling scenes together. It was what he himself felt, and that to which Emma answered with every pulse. At no time was she in the least awe of her hero, whose strong will and gentle heart marked him off from those she had best known. With Nelson she was always perfectly natural, using none but her own voice ' Eg. MS. 1623, f. 32. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 349 and gestures. Had she been really the conventional ' serpent of old Nile' (and it is odd what an historical affinity the 'Nile' has had for ' serpents '), that part would thoroughly have clashed with her unchanging outspokenness of tone. Nelson was always emphatic and picturesque ; he possessed to an eminent degree, both in warfare and otherwise, the intuition of temperament for temperament. Admitting idealisation, I cannot think that he was absolutely mistaken in Emma's. 'I shall write to Troubridge this day' is Nelson's com- munication to Lady Hamilton, in the earliest letter extant of the ' Thomson ' series, penned on the passage to Torbay only four days before the child was born, * to send me your letter, which I look for as constantly and with more anxiety than my dinner. Let her [Lady Nelson] go to Briton [sic], or where she pleases, I care not ; she is a great fool, and, thank God ! you are not the least bit like her. I delivered poor Mrs. Thomson's note ; her friend is truly thankful for her kindness and your goodness. Who does not admire your benevolent heart ? Poor man, he is very anxious, and begs you will, if she is not able, write a line just to comfort him. He appears to feel very much her situation. He is so agi- tated, and will be so for 2 or 3 days, that he says he cannot write, and that I must send his kind love and affectionate regards. ... I hate Plymouth.' ^ Yet Plymouth had just conferred on him the freedom of the city. Nelson's whole soul was with Emma ; in the suspense of fatherhood he shrank into himself and recoiled from publicity. He had no com- punctions about Lady Nelson. On the very evening of the Plymouth honours he had despatched a remarkable epistle, published by its owner last year.^ Nelson was never rich, and his allowance of ^^ 2000 a year to his wife had been handsome in the extreme.^ Nelson had already heard with incredulity ^ Morrison MS. 502, January 25, 1801. ^ In T/ie King, October 22, 1904. The author of the article kindly offered to consent to my using this letter. The letter is dated January 24, 1801. It has been excerpted in Sothel)y's Catalogue of the sale. It also tallies with another letter to Davison of even date. ' His statement of his then income to Davison still exists. Aild. MS. 28,333, f. 5. Lady Nelson had brought him ;!^4000. The allowance of (,2000 per annum was to be paid in advance quarterly by Messrs. Marsh and Creed, ' subject to the income tax which, as I pay the tax with my own. will reduce my net yearly income to ^^3600.' 3SO EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ' nonsensical reports ' that Lady Nelson was instructing the agent to buy a * fine house for him.' ^ From his wife, he now acquaints Emma, he had received but half one side of a slip of paper to tell him of her cold and her withdrawal from London. He alludes to a rumour that she was about to take Shelburne House. He treats it with scornful ridicule. He had just met Troubridge's sister who lived at Exeter, ' pitted with small-pox and deafer far than Sir Thomas.' Emma need never be jealous. ' Pray tell Mrs. Thomson her kind friend is very uneasy about her, and prays most fervently for her safety — and he says he can only depend on your goodness. . . . May the Heavens bless and preserve my dearest friend and give her every comfort this world can afford, is the sincerest prayer of your faithful and affectionate Nelson and Bronte.' Nelson is all prayer and piety for Emma. It is one of the most singular features of his erratic greatness that he lays her, the coming child, and himself as humble and acceptable offerings before God's throne. His sincerity resembles in another plane that of Carlyle, who, in some of his epistles to his mother, translated his own earnest free-thought into terms of the Scotch Covenanter. But at the same time the reader is often tempted to echo what the same Carlyle objected to in French eighteenth-centur> sentimentalism : ' So much talk about Virtue. In the devil and his grand- mother's name, be Virtuous then ! ' Every night ^ Nelson withdrew after the day's fatigues, and amid incessant occupations, to hint (when he feared to pour forth) his torture of anxiety and ' unbounded ' fulness of passionate affection. He bade her be of good cheer. He assured ' Mr. Thomson ' of her ' innate worth and affectionate disposition.'-'^ But during these weary days of waiting, a full month before Oliver had been chosen to convey his famous and self-convicting letter,* he must have disclosed ^ Cf. Nelson's letter to Davison of January 24 (the same day as the letter to Emma), Eg. MS. 2240, f. 39. " On January 26, 27, 28, and 29. Cf. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 646. ■• Cf. Morrison MS. 302, 303. * March i, 1801, Morrison MS. 532; Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 652. Cf. post, p. 368. The one beginning ' Now my own dear wife, for such you are in my eyes and the face of heaven.' PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 351 his inmost soul to its idol through him, or perhaps through Davison, who at this very time had travelled over two hundred miles to pay him a visit.^ Another letter of far less reserve, and one never, so far as I know, cited, exists in relation to the birth of the second child — the little Emma who died so soon — in the earlier months of 1804. It is so remarkable, and probably so identical with others which he must have written on this earlier occasion, that I subjoin a portion of it here, venturing to fill in some of the excisions : — ' My dearest Beloved, — ... To say that I think of you by day, night, and all day, and all night, but too faintly ex- presses my feelings of love and affection towards you. [Mine is indeed an] unbounded affection. Our dear, excellent, good [Mrs. Cadogan] is the only one who knows anything of the matter ; and she has promised me when you [are well] again to take every possible care of you, as a proof of her never- failing regard to your own dear Nelson. Believe me that I am incapable of wronging you in thought, word, or deed. No ; not all the wealth of Peru could buy me for one moment ; it is all yours and reserved wholly for you. And . . . certainly. . . from the first moment of our happy, dear, enchanting, blessed meeting . . . The call of our country is a duty which you would deservedly, in the cool moments of reflection, reprobate, was I to abandon : and I should feel so disgraced by seeing you ashamed of me ! No longer saying, " This is the man who has saved his country ! This is he, who is the first to go forth to fight our battles, and the last to return ! " . . . " Ah ! " they will think, " What a man ! What sacrifices has he not made to secure our homes and property ; even the society and happy union with the finest and most accomplished woman in the world." As you love, how must you feel ! My heart is with you, cherish it. I shall, my best beloved, return — if it pleases God — a victor ; and it shall be my study to transmit an unsullied name. There is no desire of wealth, no ambition that could keep me from all my soul holds dear. No ; it is ' Cf. Ntho7i Letters^ vol. i. p. 26. Tlio Morrison MS. show that Davison (lid actually transmit letters. 352 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON to save my country, my wife in the eye of God. . . . Only think of our happy meeting. Ever, for ever I am your's, only your's, even beyond this world. . . . For ever, for ever, your own Nelson.' ^ Emma certainly inspired the Nelson who delivered Eng- land; and for all time this surelyought to outweigh the carping diatribes of half-moralists who narrow the whole of virtue to a part. It cannot be too much emphasised that Nelson loved her and not merely her enhancements. ' Thank God,' he wrote at the beginning of February, 'you want not the society of princes or dukes. If you happened to fall down and break your nose or knock out your eyes, you might go to the devil for what they care, but it is your good heart that attaches to you, your faithful and affectionate Nelson.' - On January 29 — a day of snow — Horatia was born.^ Within the week Emma, unattended, had taken the baby by night in a hackney coach to the nurse, Mrs. Gibson,^ of Little Titchfield Street. Within a fortnight, ' thinner . . . but handsomer than ever,'** she could play hostess at her husband's table ; in three weeks she was importuned by, though she refused to entertain, royalty. From first to last, she wrote daily to Nelson, and she was active in conceal- ment. Her force of will and endurance at this juncture pass comprehension. She behaved as if nothing had happened, though she seriously deranged her health.^ ' Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 175. - Letter of February 5, 1801, transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 649. ■• Cf. Morrison MS. 502. Perhaps a twin ; ibid. 328. When the child was baptized on May 13, 1803, in Marylebone Church (though an earlier christening had been intended), its date of birth was registered as October 29, 1800, so as to bear out the fiction of the child's having been confided to them abroad. In 1804 he sent Lady H. an elaborate note (presumably to be shown), explaining that the child was entrusted to him abroad. One of the two originals of this curious docu- ment was in Mrs. Hampden's possession ; the other is in the Morrison MS. Horatia's birthday was always celebrated as if the birth had then occurred ; but the choice of the 29th of that month points to January 29, 1801, as the true date. '' Nelson in his mystifying letters at first purposely called her 'Jenkins.' Cf. Morrison MS. 507, to Lady Hamilton, Feb. 4, 1801. Lady Hamilton is said to have conveyed the infant concealed in her muff. •'' So Davison told Nelson. Cf. Morrison MS. 509, Nelson to Lady H., Feb. 6, 1801. " Cf. Sir William's letter to Nelson of Feb. 19, Nelson Letters, vol. ii. pp. 200 and 207, Feb. 19 and 20. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 353 * I believe,' wrote the transported father so soon as her glad tidings reached him, ' I believe dear Mrs. Thomson's friend will go mad with joy. He cries, prays, and performs all tricks, yet dares not show all or any of his feelings, but he has only me to consult with. He swears he will drink your health this day in a bumper, and damn me if I don't join him in spite of all the doctors in Europe, for none regard you with truer affection than myself. You are a dear good creature, and your kindness and attention to poor Mrs. T. stamps you higher than ever in my mind. I cannot write, I am so agitated by this young man at my elbow. I believe he is foolish, he does nothing but rave about you and her. I own I participate in his joy and cannot write anything.' ^ It is noteworthy that the eccentric demeanour of ' dear Mrs. Thomson's friend ' accords with what was evidently a trait in the Nelson family ; for Sir William, describing to Nelson the joy of his brother ' the reverend doctor,' on hearing the first intelligence of Copenhagen while dining with him in Piccadilly, says: 'Your brother was more extraordinary than ever. He would get up suddenly and cut a caper ; rubbing his hands every time that the thought of your fresh laurels came into his head.'^ The day after the ' young man ' at Nelson's elbow had been thus disporting himself. Nelson again addressed Lady Hamilton. He had cut out two lines from her letter with which, he declares, he will never part. He had exceeded his promise of the day before, and had drained two bumpers to the health of Mrs. Thomson and her child in the company of Troubridge, Hardy, Parker, and his brother, till the latter said he would ' hurt ' himself : ' that friend of our dear Mrs. T. is a good soul and full of feeling,' he wrote ; ' he wishes much to see her and her little one. If possible I will get him leave for two or three days when I go to Portsmouth, and you will see his gratitude to you.' ^ Next morning he communicates with her indirectly as ' Mrs. Thomson.' Her ' good and dear friend does not think it proper at present to write with his own hand,' but he ' hopes the day may not ^ Morrison MS. 504, February i, 1801 ; Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 646. - Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 213, Hamilton to Nelson, April i6, iSoi. ' Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 646. Z 354 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON be far distant when he may be united for ever to the object of his wishes, his only, only love. He swears before heaven that he will marry her as soon as possible, which he fervently prays may be soon. Nelson is charged ' to say how dear you are to him, and that you must [at] every opportunity kiss and bless for him his dear little girl, which he wishes to be called Emma, out of gratitude to our dear, good Lady Hamilton, but in either [case?] its [name?], [whether?] from Lord N., he says, or Lady H., he leaves to your judg- ment and choice.' He has ' given poor Thomson a hundred pounds this morning for which he will give Lady H. an order on his agents ' ; and he begs her to ' distribute it amongst those who have been useful to you on the late occasion ; and your friend, my dear Mrs. Thomson,' he adds, ' may be sure of my care of him and his interest, which I consider as dearly as my own. . . .' ^ But perhaps the least guarded of this long series is a fragment to be found in the old volume of Nelson Letters, though Pettigrew's transcripts and the Morrison original do not comprise it. It bears date February i6. ' I sit down, my dear Mrs. T.,' it runs, ' by desire of poor Thomson, to write you a line : not to assure you of his eternal love and affection for you and his dear child, but only to say that he is well and as happy as he can be, separated from all which he holds dear in this world. He has no thoughts separated from your love and your interest. They are united with his ; one fate, one destiny, he assures me, awaits you both. What can I say more? Only to kiss his child for him : and love him as truly, sincerely, and faithfully as he does you ; which is from the bottom of his soul. He desires that you will more and more attach yourself to dear Lady Hamilton.' ^ Only a week earlier he had addressed to her that stirring passage which told her that it was she who urged him forth to glory, that he had been the whole world round, and had never yet seen ' her equal, or even one who could be put in comparison.'^ Every night he and his * band of brothers ' continue to raise ^ Morrison MS. 505, Nelson to 'Mrs. Thomson.' Pettigrew (who only gives the least interesting parts), vol. ii. p. 647. ^ Nelson Letters ^ vol. i. p. 173. ^ Ibid. p. 24. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 355 the glass to the toast of Emma. Letter succeeds to letter, affection to impatience, and impatience to ecstasy. He makes a new will, bequeathing her, besides other jewelled presenta- tions, the portrait which Maria Carolina had given him of herself at parting ^ ; charging, too, in her favour the rental of Bronte, but on this occasion only in the case of the failure of its male heirs ; creating, above all, a trust for the child, of whom ' Emma Hamilton alone knows the parents,' of whom too she is besought to act as guardian, and by her honour and integrity to ' shield it from want and disgrace.' He would ' steal white bread rather than that the child should want.' He and she are to be and be known as godparents of an infant in whom they take a ' very particular interest,' and he especially requests that it may be brought up as 'the child of her dear friend Nelson and Bronte.' He discusses the name ; Emma had evidently begged that it might be his^ not hers as originally proposed. Let it be christened 'Horatia' and be registered, anagramatically, as 'daughter of Johem and Morata Etnorb.' ^ As for the date of baptism, he leaves it entirely to his Emma's discretion, but, on the whole, after some hesitation he favours its postponement, since a clergyman might ask inconvenient questions.^ He rejoices to hear that the baby is handsome, for then it must be like his dear ' Lady Hamilton,' between whom and Mrs. Thomson there is said to be a striking resemblance. After all, there is no immediate hurry to settle these trifles. He must soox\ rejoin her, if only for a day. Till March he would still be kept off the English coasts, near and yet far from Emma ; he chafes at a division uncaused by duty or by distance. He will run up so soon as ' Mr. Thomson ' can get leave, and propitiate that watch-dragon, Troubridge. Emma's correspondence with Mrs. William Nelson from the latter end of February, which finds place in the Appendix, will shortly show how and when he appeared in * This portrait was reproduced in the Belle AssembWe for May 1S07 by Lady Hamilton's express permission. '^ i.e. Horatio and Emma Bronte. It should be noticed that three years later he once more takes up the vein of mystification and uses another anagram, ' Ganam Justem ' [' I 'gainst you Emma ' ?] Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. pp. 71, 77; and there were other.-, also. All this reminds one of Swift's anagrams to Stella. ' Cf. Morrison MS. 509; Pettigrcw, vol. ii. pp. 650-652. 356 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON London. But before he hastened to her side, a curious and unnoticed episode, mixing a drop of bitter disquiet with his draught of rapture, will be followed with interest. It exhibits Emma's constancy and fortitude under a tempta- tion which surprised her, and anguished her fretting lover. Her firmness in overcoming it and, with it, his jealousy, riveted him, if possible, more closely than ever. It pervades every one of Nelson's letters, from the February of this year to the end of March, and many, long afterwards. While, strained and nervous beyond measure, she now awaited Horatia's birth,^ she was annoyed and alarmed, though possibly flattered also, by a message from the Prince of Wales — eager to bridge over the dull interval till Parliament might pronounce his father imbecile and himself Regent. He politely commanded Sir William to invite him to dinner on a Sunday evening. It was his desire to hear Lady Hamilton sing, together with La Banti, who was now in London, and whose son Nelson had actually placed in the navy together with Emma's cousin, Charles Connor.- Sir William was anxious to obtain from the Government not only his full pension, but also a liberal reward for the heavy losses which Jacobinism had inflicted on his property. Moreover, he hoped, though in vain, for a new appointment — the governorship of Malta.'^ The Prince's aid was all-important for the ex-Ambassador. He had been more than civil during the short visit of 1791, when he had commissioned portraits of the fair Ambassadress ; and, though an ill- natured world might put the worst construction on his presence in Piccadilly, Sir William trusted to Emma's prudence and his own interest.^ The fiery Nelson, however, ' Nelson first mentions the matter on Jan. 26, Morrison MS. 503. " Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 107. ■' Cf. Captain Louis's letter to Emma, regarding the affair as if it were settled, Morrison MS. 603, June 15, 1801. Ball also wrote in the same strain. •* Cf. his letter to Nelson of Feb. 11, Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 200. '. . . She has got one of her terrible sick headaches. Am.ong other things that vex her is — that we have been drawn in to be under the absolute necessity of giving a dinner to the P. of Wales on Sunday next. He asked it himself, having expressed a strong desire of hearing Banti's and Emma's voices together. I am well aware of the dangers, etc. ... As this dinner must be, or he would be offended, I shall keep strictly to the musical pan, invite only Banti, her husband, and Taylor ; and as I wish to show a civility to Davison, I have sent him an Z_ PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 357 infuriated, even demented, at the bare suspicion, ascribed the whole manoeuvre to the bad offices and influence of Lady Abercorn, Mrs. Walpole,^ and a ' Mrs. Nisbet,' who had been heard publicly to assert that Lady Hamilton had ' hit ' the Prince's ' fancy.' Sir William, however, was now once more under Greville's thumb, and I am satisfied that the mild Mephistopheles of King's Mews had his finger in this pie.- At a moment so awkward, Emma certainly dis- believed that her husband ever did more than countenance the affair. She was proud of her talent, and pleased at the sensation it created in the Duke of Oueensberry's circle. But the attentions of such a charmer as the First Gentleman in Europe were doubtless of design ; and she was on her guard at the outset, though in after years she cultivated the new friendship of the Prince, together with the long-standing one of his admiring brothers. Her child had half-hallowed in her eyes the sin that sacrifice had endeared, and she resented the buzz of the scandalmongers. She welcomed, indeed invited, Nelson's plan of bringing up his sister-in-law to the rescue. Sir William's intention that the royal visit should be 67? famille, and its projected secrecy, worked up Nelson's feelings to their highest pitch : better by far, if it had to be, a big re- ception. In the end, however, no party took place, still less was there any ^clat? The Prince was baffled, despite Sir William. Emma showed that she could renounce vanity for love, and that she dared to rebuff importunity in high places. Nelson's mountain brought forth a mouse, nor did he ever cease to commemorate his appreciation of Emma's firmness — ' firm as a rock,' he said of her afterwards. invitation. In short, we will get rid of it as well as we can, and guard against its producing more meetings of the same sort. Emma would really have gone any lengths to have avoided Sunday'' s dinner. But / thought it would not be prudent to break with the P. of Wales, etc. ... I have been thus explicit as I know well your Lordship's way of thinking, and your very kind attachment to us and to everything that concerns us.' The rest of this letter concerns his claims. ' In February i8cx) Mr. Bolton speaks of her and her 'fine people' with the Prince of Wales at Bath, as great gamesters. Morrison MS. 454. '" Nelson mentions him expressly in a passage to be quoted, as engaged in the alTair, Morrison MS. 521. ' Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 34. Nelson to Emma, March 1801. Sir William seems even to have used threats. Cf. Morrison MS. 519. 3S8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Nelson was really on the rack. His distracted letters of more than a fortnight — until his apprehensions of the main danger had been calmed — present a striking self-revelation, and are doubly interesting because Emma's own letters to Mrs. William Nelson supplement them. It is only through his own words that we can realise his feelings. His over- wrought nature magnified every shadow, and overbore his strong common sense. He was morbid, and conjured up suspicions and anticipations alike unworthy of him. Throughout his life his geese were too often swans, and his bites noires, even oftener, demons. His Jeremiads sound a monotone. He tears his passion to tatters in a crescendo of self-torture. The man whose bracing and unblenching nerves were iron in action, who was shortly to urge ' these are not times for nervous systems,' grew unstrung and abased when his immense love lost its foot- hold for a moment. At first he could scarcely believe that ' Sir William should have a wish for the Prince of Wales to come under your roof ; no good could come from it, but every harm. * You are too beautiful not to have enemies, and even one visit will stamp you. . . . We know that he is without one spark of honour in these respects and would leave you to bewail your folly. But, my dear friend, I know you too well not to be convinced you cannot be seduced by any prince in Europe. You are, in my opinion, the pattern of perfection.' ' Sir William should say to the Prince that, situated as you are, it would be highly improper for you to admit H.R.H. That the Prince should wish it, I am not surprised at. . . . Sir William should speak out, and if the Prince is a man of honour, he will quit the pursuit of you. . . . The thought so agitates me that I cannot write. I had wrote a few lines last night but I am in tears, I cannot bear it' ' I own I sometimes fear that you will not be so true to me as I am to you, yet I cannot, will not believe, you can be false. No ! I judge you by myself. I hope to be dead before that should happen, but it will not. Forgive me, Emma, oh, forgive your own dear, disinterested Nelson. Tell Davison how sensible I am of his goodness. He knows my attachment to you. . . . May God send . . . happiness! PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 359 I have a letter from Sir William ; he speaks of the Regency as certain ; and then probably he thinks you will sell better — horrid thought!' 'Your dear friend, my dear and truly beloved Mr. T., is almost distracted ; he wishes there was peace, or if your uncle would die, he would instantly then come and marry you, for he doats on nothing but you and his child. . . . He has implicit faith in your fidelity, even in conversation with those he dislikes, and that you will be faithful in greater things he has no doubt.' When Emma scolded, and sought to pique him by a piece of jesting jealousy into reason, he reassured both her^ and himself for a few days; but on February 11, addressing her as ' My dear Lady,' he tells her that ' it is very easy to find a stick to beat your Dogl and to find a pre- text for blaming one ' who will never forget you, but to the last moment of his existence, pray to God to give you happiness and to remove from this ungrateful world your old friend.' - Three days later, however, he again changes his note ; he trusts his 'dear Lady' to 'do him full justice, and to make her dear mind at ease for ever, for ever and ever.'"^ But on February 17 he burst out afresh: 'I am so agitated that I can write nothing. I knew it would be so, and you can't help it. Do not sit long at table. Good God ! He will be next you, and telling you soft things. If he does, tell it out at table, and turn him out of the house. . . . Oh, God ! that I was dead ! But I do not, my dearest Emma, blame you, nor do I fear your constancy. ... I am gone almost mad, but you cannot help it. It will be in all the newspapers with hints. ... I could not write another line if I was to be made King. If I was in town, nothing should make me dine with you that damned day, but, my dear Emma, I do not blame you, only remember your poor miserable friend. ^ ' Suppose I did say thai ihe West Country women v ore black stockings, what is it more than if you was to say what puppies all the present yountj men are? You cannot help your eyes, and God knows I cannot see much.' Morrison MS. 514, and cf. 515. - Cf. excerpt from a letter of February 11, iJbOi. ^ San Josef, Brixham,' in Sotheby's catalogue of July 8, 1905. Cf. Appendix, 1'art il. E. (4) (a). * Cf. excerpt in the same catalogue of another new letter of February 14, 1801. Cf. Appendix, Part li. E. (4) (b). 36o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON That you must be singing and appear gay ! . . . I have read . . . your resolution never to go where the fellow is, but you must have him at home. Oh, God ! but you cannot, I suppose, help it, and you cannot turn him out of your own house. ... I see your determination to be on your guard, and as fixed as fate. ... I am more dead than alive . . . to the last breath your's. If you cannot get rid of this, I hope you will tell Sir William never to bring the fellow again.' ' 'Tis not that I believe you will do anything that injures me, but I cannot help saying a few words on that fellow's dining with you, for you do not believe it to be out of love for Sir William. . . . You have been taken in. You that are such a woman of good sense, put so often on your guard by myself [against] Mrs. Udney, Mrs. Spilsbury, Mrs. Dent, and Mrs. Nisbet. ... I knew that he would visit you, and you could not help coming downstairs when the Prince was there. . . . But his words are so charming that, I am told, no person can withstand them. If I had been worth ten millions I would have betted every farthing that you would not have gone into the house knowing that he was there, and if you did, which I would not have believed, that you would have sent him a proper message by Sir William, and sent him to hell. And knowing your determined courage when you had got down, I would have laid my head upon the block with the axe uplifted, and said " strike," if Emma does not say to Sir William before the fellow, " my character cannot, shall not suffer by per- mitting him to visit." . . . Hush, hush, my poor heart, keep in my breast, be calm, Emma is true. . . . But no one, not even Emma, could resist the serpent's flattering tongue. . . . What will they all say and think, that Emma is like other women, when I would have killed anybody who had said so. . . . Forgive me. I know I am almost distracted, but I have still sense enough left to burn every word of yours. . . . All your pictures are before me. What will Mrs. Denis say, and what will she sing — Be Calm, be Gentle, the Wind has Changed'^ Do you go to the opera to-night? They say he sings well. I have eat nothing but a little rice and drank water. But forgive me. I know my Emma, and don't forget that you had once a Nelson, a friend, a PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 361 dear friend, but alas ! he has his misfortunes. He has lost the best, his only friend, his only love. Don't forget him, poor fellow I He is honest. Oh ! I could thunder and strike dead with my lightning. I dreamt it last night, my Emma. I am calmer. . . . Tears have relieved me ; you never will again receive the villain to rob me. . . . May the heavens bless you ! I am better. Only tell me you forgive me ; don't scold me, indeed I am not worth it, and am to my last breath your's, and if not your's, no one's in the world. . . . You cannot now help the villain's dining with you. Get rid of it as well as you can. Do not let him come downstairs with you or hand you up. If you do, tell me, and then ! ' ' Forgive my letter wrote and sent last night, perhaps my head was a little affected. No wonder, it was such an unexpected, such a knock-down blow ; such a death. But I will not go on, for I shall get out of my senses again. Will you sing for the fellow The Prince, unable to conceal his Pain, etc. ? No, you will not.' And here follows, like a lull in the storm, his joy at hearing from Emma herself that Sir William, ' who asks all parties to dinner,' was not to have his way; she had resolved to evade the Prince. He cursed the would-be intruder. Even now he implored her not to risk being at home that next Sunday evening,^ but to dine with Mrs. Denis. If the Prince still insisted on coming, Emma must be away. But till he had certainty he would con- tinue to starve himself He thanked her 'ten thousand times.' She was never to say that her letters bored him ; they were ' the only real comfort of his life.' If ever he proved false to her, might 'God's vengeance' light upon him. Parker knew his love for her — ' who does not?' He was 'all astonishment at her uncle's conduct'; as for his 'aunt,' he did not care 'a fig for her." He would buy Madame Le Brun's portrait of her as well as Romney's. Still, the yellow demon had not yet quite deserted him. He still brooded on imaginary fears and scenes. ' Did you sit alone with the villain.? No! I will not believe it. Oh, God ! Oh, God 1 keep my sences. Do not let the rascal in. ^ February 22. Tuesday (when Emma wrote to Mrs. \Villiam Nelson) was the 24th. Cf. Add. MS. 34,1^89, f. 38. 362 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Tell the Duke^ that you will never go to his house. Mr. G.'^ must be a scoundrel. He treated you once ill enough^ and cannot love you, or he would sooner die. ... I have this moment got my orders to put myself under Sir Hyde Parker's orders, and suppose I shall be ordered to Portsmouth to-morrow or next day, and then I will try to get to London for 3 days. May Heaven bless us, but don't let that fellow dine with you. . . . Forget every cross word: I now live! That very night he received the assurance of Emma's staunch determination, however Sir William and Greville might remonstrate, and his answer breathes a profound and rapturous calm: — 'Your good sense, judgment, and proper firmness must endear you to all your friends, and to none more than your old and firm friend Nelson. You have shown that you are above all temptation, and not to be drawn into the paths of dishonour for to gratify any price, or to gain any riches. How Sir William can associate with a person of a character so diametrically opposed to his own — but I do not choose, as this letter goes through any hands, to enter more at large on this subject. I glory in your conduct and in your inestimable friendship. ... I wish you were my sister that I might instantly give you half my fortune for your glorious conduct. Be firm ! Your cause is that of honour against infamy. . . . You know that I would not, in Sir William's case, have gone to Court without my wife,^ and such a wife, never to be matched. It is true you would grace a Court better as a Queen than a visitor.' * Good Sir William,' he added, must, on reflection, ' admire your virtuous and proper conduct.'^ Nelson never forgot or ceased to praise Emma's conduct in this ticklish transaction. William Nelson joined his ' Of Queensberry. - Greville. ^ This is proof positive that Nelson was fully aware of Emma's past. The reverse has often been asserted. ^ Queen Charlotte would never receive her. ^ For the foregoing cf, iti/er alia, Morrison MS. 503, 507, 509, 511, 513-15, 518, 520, 521-22, 532 ; Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 34, vol. ii. p. 200; and for the two citations to follow, Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 451, and excerpt from a letter, ^ St. George, March 7, 1801,' from Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905. Cf Appendix, Part il. D, (c) (a). PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 363 brother 'in admiration.'^ But the lover holds her aloft as a matchless example in letters compatible with the most platonic affection. She is incomparable. The more he reads, the more he admires her ' whole conduct,' The thought of it inspired that ' Santa Emma ' letter written in the May of this very year on the St. George off Rostock, one excerpt from which, canonising her as a saint, has been already quoted,'- and which is given entire in the Appendix.^ It inspired another uncited passage addressed to Emma a few weeks later. ' I now know he never can dine with you ; for you would go out of the house sooner than suffer it : and as to letting him hear you sing, I only hope he will be struck deaf and you dumb, sooner than such a thing should happen ! But I know it never now can. You cannot think how my feelings are alive towards you : pro- bably more than ever: and they never can be diminished.'* In strength of will, in picturesqueness, in emphasis, in courage, it must be acknowledged that Nelson and Emma were affinities. The fresh correspondence between Emma and Mrs. William Nelson — transcribed in the Appendix — is interest- ing in relation to this episode, for through it we are enabled to hear Emma's own voice. It rings out true and clear, confirming every word that Nelson uttered. There is also here and there a touch in it of Emma as ' stateswoman ' once more. She never relaxed her interest in politics, and she was still in correspondence with Maria Carolina.^ ^ His letter is very characteristic — all smirk, starch, bows and compliments. He can only send her his 'little morsel of a better half ; her letters to him are •charities.' For a specimen of this worthy's spirit, cf. the following in a letter to Lady H. of August 23, 1801 : — ' I am told there are two or three very old lives, Prebends of Canterbury, in the Minister's gift^near ;^6oo a year, and good houses. ' — Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 204. "' Add. MS. 34,274 G. Cf. ante, p. 26. ^ Appendix, Part II. D. i (/'). ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 34. •'• Emma wrote, after Nelson's departure, to the Queen. The reply reached her in May, protesting 'vera amicizia.' Maria, herself in great trouble at the entry of the French, grieves to hear that Emma is neither ' happy nor con- tented.'— Eg. MS. 1616, f. 125. They exchanged fresh letters in December, the Queen assuring her old friend that she always interests her. — Ibid. f. 127. In some of his this year's letters Nelson inquires of Emma news from the Queen, who continued her correspondence so late as 1809. 364 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Emma had welcomed Nelson's wish that his sister-in- law should be with her at such a trying moment. Un- fortunately, 'Reverend Doctor' and his wife had ended their stay in town just before the Sunday of the party which haunted Nelson came round. At Nelson's request, however, the little woman, whose 'tongue,' he said, 'never lay still,' returned in the nick of time to fill the blank caused by his departure.^ On the very Friday of Nelson's two letters^ to Emma, she also took up her own tale to Mrs. Nelson. She was still in bed with a headache : ' . . . It is such a pain to part with dear friends, and you and I liked each other from the moment we met : our souls were congenial. Not so with Tom Tit,^ for there was an antipathy not to be described. ... I received yesterday letters from that great adored being that we all so love, esteem, and admire. The more one knows him, the more one wonders at his greatness, his heart, his head booth \sic\ so perfect. He says he is coming down to Spithead^ soon, he hopes. Troubridge comes to town to-day as one of the Lords, so he is settled for the present, but depend on it, my dear friend, this poor patched-up party ^ can never hold long. A new coat will bear many a lag and tag as the vulgar phrase is, but an old patched mended one must tear. ... I am so unwell that I don't think we can have his Royal Highness to dinner on Sunday, which will not vex vie. Addio, inia Cara arnica. You know as you are learning Italian, I must say a word or so. How dull my bedroom looks without you. I miss our little friendly confidential chats. But in this world nothing is compleat.' And here Emma's philosophy follows : — ' If all went on smoothly, one shou'd regret quitting it, but 'tis the many little vexations and crosses, separations from one's dear friends that make one not regret leaving it. . . .'^ ' From the Morrison MS. and these new Add. MSS. it is clear that Mrs. Nelson arrived again about March 20. - February 19. The two last notes above cited. ^ Lady Nelson. ■• From Portsmouth, where the work of refitting the fleet was nearly finished. Cf. Morrison MS. 522. ^ Addington [London-to-Paddington Addington] was trying to edge in on the debris of Pitt's administration, but as he could not form a Cabinet, Pitt returned. •' Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 36, 37 ; and .see Appendix, Part 11. B. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 365 On February the 24th Nelson hurried to London ^ before he finally set out for the Baltic in the second week of the next month. A note from Emma in this new series describes his arrival to Mrs. Nelson. The letter is franked by Nelson himself to ' Hillborough, Brandon, Suffolk ': — ' My dearest Friend, — Your dear Brother arrived this morning by seven o'clock. He stays only 3 days, so by the time you wou'd be here, he will be gone. How un- lucky you went so soon. I am in health so so, but spirits to-day excellent. Oh, what real pleasure Sir William and 1 have in seeing this our great, good, virtuous Nelson. His eye is better. . . . Apropos Lady Nelson is at Brighton yet. The King, God bless him, is ill, and there are many speculations. Some say it is his old disorder. . . .' And on the next day, February 25 : — ' . . . Your good, dear Brother has just left me to go to pay a visit to Mr. Nepean,'^ but is coming back to dinner with Morice, his brother,^ whom he brings with him, and Troubridge also. We shall be comfortable, but more so if you had been here. Oh, I wish you was, and how happy would Milord* have been to have had that happiness, to have walked out with Mrs. Nelson. . . . Our dear Nelson is very well in health. Poor fellow, he travelled allmost all night, but you that know his great, good heart will not be surprised at any act of friendship of his. I shall send for Charlotte^ to see him before he goes, and he has given 2 guineas for her. . . .' ' At ' Lothian's.' - Afterwards Sir Evan, Secretary to and one of the Lords of the Admiralty. He was a shrewd courtier, and a great admirer of Lady H. In one of his after letters Nelson tells her that Nepean only conies to Merton to feast on the sight of her beauty and sound of her voice, and that he is a ' fair-weather friend.' ' He died next year. Nelson, with difliculty and to his disgust, could not actually procure for him this year more than a small under-post from the Government. His so-called widow, ' poor blind Mrs. Nelson,' has been already mentioned. Both Nelson and Emma befriended her affectionately. ' She shall never want,' he said, and he bequeathed her an annuity of ;^ioo. * Maria Carolina's name for Nelson. •■' The Rev. William Nelson's daughter, afterwards Lady Bridport, now at Mrs. VoUer's school in London. From 1802- 1805 she was to be constantly at Merton under the wing of Lady Hamilton, and the instruction both of her and of Miss Connor. 366 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON On the following morning^ again: — 'Yesterday I cou'd not, my dearest friend, write much, and Milord was not yet returned from the Admiralty time enough to frank your letters, and sorry I was you shou'd pay for such trash that I sent you, but I thought you wou'd be uneasy. We had a pleasant evening [' and night ' — erased]. I often thought on you, but now the subject of the King's illness gives such a gloom to everything. . . . Mr. Addington is not minister, for his commission was not signed before the King was taken so ill, so Mr. Pitt is yet first Lord. . . . Our good Lord Nelson is lodged at Lothian's ; Tom Tit, at the same place [Brtg/iton]. The Cub" is to have a frigate, the TJialia. I suppose HE will be up in a day or so. I only hope he does not come near me. If he does, 7iot at home shall be the answer. I am glad he is going. . . . Milord has only Allen " with him. We supped and talked politics till 2. Mr. East \i.e. Este] who is a pleasant man, was with us. . . . Oh, my dearest friend, our dear Lord is just come in. He goes off to-night and sails imediately. My heart is fit to Burst quite with greef. Oh, what pain, God only knows. I can only say may the Allmighty God bless, prosper, and protect him ! I shall go mad with grief. Oh, God only knows what it is to part with such a friend, such a one. We were truly called the Tria juncta in uno, for Sir W., he, and I have but one heart in three bodies. . . . He, our great Nelson, sends his love to you. . . . My greif* will not let me say more Heavens bless you, answer your afflicted E. H.' ^ From Yarmouth, after a brief spell of final prepara- tion, Nelson sailed for the double feat of annihilating the Northern Confederation single-handed, and negotiat- ing with a mastery both of men and management the truce February 26. - Nelson's stepson Josiah Nisbet. It should be noticed that though she thus speaks of him, Lady Nelson's ' ill-treatment ' of her son formed one of the grounds for Nelson's bitterness towards her. Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 63. •* The servant whom Nelson had afterwards to dismiss. Long years later, he gave a false account of Horatia's parentage. Nelson, in finding him another place, termed him ' a great liar.' *■ It will be noticed that in one letter grief figures rightly as ' grief,' and also as 'greef and 'greif. ■* Add. MS. 34.989. ff- 40-43- PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 367 that preceded the Peace of Amiens. Copenhagen was now the key of the situation, as it was to prove six years later, when Canning saved Europe from the ruin of Austerlitz and the ignominy of Tilsit by that secret expedition which would have gladdened Nelson, had he been alive. As victor and peacemaker he was now to stand forth supreme. ' Time is our best ally,' he wrote to Lord St. Vincent a few days later, when the wind caused a week's delay in the start of the refitted ships. ' I hope we shall not give her up, as all our allies have given us up. Our friend here is a little nervous about dark nights and fields of ice, but we must brace up ; these are not times for nervous systems. I want peace, which is only to be had through, I trust, our still invincible navy ' ; and, just before sailing,^ he made a declaration to Berry that no Briton should ever forget : — ' ... As to the plan for pointing a gun truer than we do at present, if the person comes, I shall of course look at it, and be happy, if necessary, to use it. But I hope that we shall be able, as usual, to get so close to our enemies, that our shots cannot miss their object, and that we shall again give our northern enemies that hailstorm of bullets which is so emphatically described in the Naval Chronicle, and which gives our dear country the dominion of the seas. We have it, and all the devils in hell cannot take it from us, if our wooden walls have fair play,"^ On the verge of battle he indited three lines meant for Emma's eyes alone : — ' He has no fear of death but parting from you.'^ Emma resumed her disconsolate epistles both to him and, until her return, to Mrs. William Nelson. The first can only be inferred from his most vehement answers, while of the second a few scraps may find appropriate place. With a single exception she had withheld nothing from Nelson ; ■* their communion was unreserved. But of ' Emma ^ March 9. - Laughton's Despatches, p. 246. Nelson always laid the greatest stress on time. Five minutes, he would say, made the difference Ijetween defeat and victory. a Morrison MS. 549. * The Greville story he has already mentioned as known ; and in tlie first chapter I have hinted the bare possibility that he knew of Felherstonchaugh, who, with Hodges, was a member of the Prince of Wales's charmless circle. 368 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Carew,' that ' orphan,' ^ now a girl of nineteen, for whom she was still caring,^ who was soon to be put under the alternate charge of Mrs. Denis and of Mrs. Connor, and who was frequently to see her undisclosed mother at Merton, she seems to have kept silence. On the first day of March Nelson addressed to the ' friend of his bosom ' " that most remarkable letter opening ' Now, my own dear wife,' ^ which has become so hackneyed. He at last found a full vent for his feelings, for Oliver was the bearer of the paper. There was nothing, he said, that he would not do for them to live together, and to have their dear little child with them. He firmly believed that the imminent campaign would ensure peace, and then — who knew? — they might cross the water and live in avowed partnership at Bronte. He wanted to see his wife no more, but until he could quit the country with Emma (and before that possibility England must be safeguarded), there could be no open union. After ensuring a * glorious issue,' he would return with ' a little more fame ' for his Emma, proud of him and their country. ' I never did love any one else,' he continues ; ' I never had a dear pledge of love till you gave me one, and you, thank my God, never gave one to anybody else. . . . You, my beloved Emma, and my country are the two dearest objects of my fond heart, a heart susceptible and true. Only place con- fidence in me and you never shall be disappointed.' He is now convinced of his dominion over her. He protests in the most passionate phrases his longing and his constancy. He is hers all, only, and always. ' My heart, body, and mind ^ is in perfect union of love towards my own dear beloved ' — his matchless, his flawless Emma. Yet a living proof of flaw lurked in oblivion. We have heard Emma in 1798 sighing over her married childlessness. 1 She had been so styled in a communication from Greville about her in 1792. - In April she was still with her old educators, the Blackburns, near Man- chester, where Mrs. Cadogan went to visit her and report to Emma. Cf. Morrison MS. 563, Mrs. Cadogan to Emma, April 26, 1801. 2 ' Emma, let me be the friend of your bosom. I deserve it, for my confi- dence is reciprocated.' — Morrison MS. 543. ^ Not the only occasion on which he so addressed her. Cf. Morrison MS. 546, 621. * It is worthy of notice that he omits ' soul.' In a much later letter to her he says that his being is hers entirely, but that his ' soul ' is his Creator's. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 369 Horatia, Nelson's Horatia, was at length hers. Horatia's name and influence tinge his every tone ; he even writes to the babe-in-arms, the child of his own heart. As Horatia's mother, Emma seems holy in his eyes. Every letter that he kisses before he sends it, is sealed with her head ; ^ each of hers with 'Nelson' and 'The Nile,' with his glorious emblem — * Honor est a Nilo! Was it now possible, at this longed-for moment, to reveal the dark error of her day's clouded open- ing ? She had been but seventeen when that other daughter, watched, befriended, but never acknowledged, had been born. The foundling's disavowal had been wholly the work and craft of Greville, once so ' good,' so ' tender' to her and the offspring that he snatched away from her girl's embrace. Was this the moment, she might well plead with the Pharisees, for withdrawing the veil that hid Horatia's half- sister from Nelson ? She remained a ' Protestant of the flesh' — a born pagan. As pagan she would be true in trial. She would do her duty as she knew it, and act her double part of nurse and wife. She would be generous and warm-hearted. But such surrender ! — Was it in human, in feminine nature ? Had she been the born ' saint ' of Nelson's canonisation, she would have done so now. Pale and weeping, she would have humbled herself and placed that daughter by her side as some token of atonement. How the scribes of the long robe, like Greville, would have sneered, how Hamilton would have smiled ! And Hamil- ton's name — poor, fading Hamilton's — must surely have struck some chord in her better self. Who was she, what manner of man was Nelson, to make or exact such sacri- fice ! Although Sir William's own recent weakness had endangered her, and belittled him before Nelson, they still esteemed him — formed together, indeed, his right hand. And yet, whether Greville and he had guessed the truth or not, to him they were half traitors — an ugly word for an ugly fact ; for what had Caracciolo been but a traitor! This was a moment when self-illusions might have vanished, and ' This seal — in imitation uf a classic intaglio — was made in Rome about 1792 by Rega, a famous artist. It is now in the British Museum, and was originally covered with Nelson's sealing-wax. She had a tift' with Nelson about it in August. Cf. Morrison MS. 6i i. 2 A 370 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Nelson's Roman virtue might have listened to the stern rebuke to David — ' Thou art the man.' Yet, contrasted with the lax crew of Carlton House and many at St. James's, Nelson and she were all but virtuous, virtuous sinners. Would her sin, then, ever find her out ? Was this the time to bare her conscience to the world ? And during that brief London visit they had both seen the child,^ as they were so often to do in the two succeed- ing years. Their visits suggest a striking picture, — the spare, weather-beaten man in the plain black suit, with the firm yet morbid mouth ; the beautiful woman longing to call aloud to her baby ; the little, homely room ; Nurse Gibson with her housekeeper air, furtively wondering why the great Lord Nelson and the Ambassador's lady were so much con- cerned in this work-a-day world, with the mysterious child of ' Mr. and Mrs. Thomson.' 2 The very day that Emma received Nelson's confession of faith in her, she took up her pen once more to his sister-in- law: — * My dearest friend, anxiety and heart-bleedings for your dear brother's departure has made me so ill, I have not been able to write. I cannot eat or sleep. Oh, may God prosper and bless him. He has wrote to Lord Eldon ^ for Mr. Nelson. You will have him at Yarmouth in two days. Oh, how I envy you ! Oh God, how happy you are ! . . . My spirits and health is bad endeed. . . . Tom Tit is at Brighton. She did not come, nor did he go. Jove, for such he is — quite a Jove — knows better than that. Morrice means to go to Yarmouth. The Cub dined with us, but I ^ Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 30. ' I have seen and talked much w^ith Mr. Thomson's friend. The fellow seems to eat all my words, when I talk of her and his child. He says he never can forget your goodness and kind affection to her and his dear, dear child. I have had the felicity of seeing it, and a finer child,' etc. ■^ According to tradition, Mrs. Gibson's daughter used often to say that she remembered these visits. Nelson would play with the child on the floor while Lady Hamilton looked on. ^ i.e. for a bishopric. He was always soliciting Lord Eldon for 'Reverend Doctor.' He got him a Prebendary stall at Canterbury ; and to this, and her share in it, Emma refers in one of her last despairing letters. Cf. the letter to Sir William Scott of September 12, 1814, in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905 ; cf. Appendix, Part il. C. 10 {a). PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 371 never asked how Tom Tit was. . . . How I long to see you ; do try and come, for God's sake do.' And a like burden pervades the notes of days following : she is ' so very low- spirited and ill ' since ' the best and greatest man alive went away.' She has 'no spirit to do anything.' She prays Mrs. Nelson of her charity to come. They can then 'walk and talk, and be so happy together.' She can hear 'all the news of my Hero! She has bought Charlotte presents, and will take them to her. The King is better, and Tom Tit is in the country. She sends every message to ' little Horatio.' ^ She had been ill all night, and cannot even take the morning air.^ For the second time, ' Calypso ne pouvait pas se consoler du depart dUlysse.' Nelson had asked, Emma had hoped, that she and Sir William (for Nelson would never see her without her hus- band) might run down to Yarmouth, and bid him and the St. George farewell. But * his eternally obliged ' Sir William (possibly warned by Greville) declined with civil thanks. He was dedicating every moment to art. Some of his choicest vases, to his great joy, had turned up from the wreck. Pending the dubious bounty of the Government, he was preparing to sell these and his pictures by auction. Among the latter were three portraits of his wife. Nelson was furious at Emma being thus for the second time 'on sale.' He bought the St. Cecilia, as has been recounted earlier,^ for ;^300, and enshrined it as a true 'saint' in his cabin : had it cost ' 300 drops of blood,' he would 'have given it with pleasure.' ^ And almost up to the date of departure, renewed uneasiness about the loose set that Sir William now encouraged harassed him. Should she ever find herself in extremities, she must summon him back, and he would fly to her deliverance.^ It was at this moment * He entered the navy, but did not live to inherit his uncle's honours. '•^ Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 45-49. App. Part il. B. ^ Chap. i. p. 26. The new and most remarkable Nelson letter there quoted is given in its entirety in the Appendix, Part ii. D. {b). * Cf. Morrison MS. 543, 544 ; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 445 ; Nelson Letters, vol, ii. p. 207. 'Can this be the great Sir William Hamilton? I blush for him,' writes Nelson in the first-named letter. Among these pictures was the ' Bacchante ' by Madame Le Brun, an enamel of which, by Bone, was bequeathed by Hamilton to Nelson. The sale realised over ;,^5ooo. Morrison MS. 550. ' Cf. Morrison MS. 535-539, 541, 542. 372 EMMA. LADY HAMILTON that, in once more revising his will, he bequeathed to her a diamond star. It is strange that the virtuously indignant Miss Knight's ^ pen should have been employed in celebrating the loves of Nelson and Lady Hamilton ; yet such had been the case. Nelson retained them until the great battle was over, when he enclosed them in a letter to Emma : — ' L'Infelice Emma ai Venti.' 'Blow, blow, thou winter wind, To Love and Emma kind ! Ah ! come ! more grateful far Than perfumed zephyrs are. Blow, blow, and on thy welcome wing My Life, my Love, my Hero bring. Blest, blest the compass be Which steers my love to me ! And blest the happy gale Which fills his homeward sail ; And blest the boat, and blest each oar Which rows my True Love back to shore.' ^ And ' blest' one might add, this maudlin trash. Robuster, at any rate, than these, surely, is the mediocre set that Emma composed for her hero in the same month. ' Silent grief, and sad forebodings (Lest I ne'er should see him more), Fill my heart when gallant Nelson Hoists Blue Peter at the fore. On his Pendant anxious gazing, Filled with tears mine eyes run o'er ; At each change of wind I tremble While Blue Peter 's at the fore. All the livelong day I wander. Sighing on the sea-beat shore, But my sighs are all unheeded, When Blue Peter 's at the fore. Oh that I might with my Nelson Sail the whole world o'er and o'er, Never should I then with sorrow See Blue Peter at the fore. ^ For Nelson's opinion of her conduct, cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 75. '^ Morrison MS. 555. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 373 But (ah me !) his ship 's unmooring ; Nelson's last boat rows from shore ; Every sail is set and swelling, And Blue Peter's seen no more.' ' While Nelson reaped fresh laurels to lay at her feet, Emma waited for the peace which should bring him back, but which was indefinitely delayed. Among the frequenters of the Piccadilly household, ' Old Q.' and Lord William Douglas, an indefatigable scribbler of vers de societ^^ remained real friends, as Nelson constantly acknowledged, but the Carlton House gang still pestered and annoyed her. For a space she became cross with herself, cross with Sir William and cross even with Nelson, whose most unselfish devotion to her never allowed the gall in her imperious nature to embitter its honey. But, despite her own ailments and her husband's, she soon resumed her energy. Never did she appear to better advantage, except in days of danger, than in those of sickness. She was always trying to get promotions for Nelson's old Captains, and caring for his proteges and dependants ; ^ she even acted as Nelson's deputy in urging the authorities to supply him with the requisite officers^ so often denied him, that he would protest himself forgotten ' by the great folks at home.' To Nelson she wrote daily, pouring out her heart and soul. From Kioge Bay Nelson sailed to Revel, from Revel to Finland ; and thence Russia-ward to complete his work of peace by an interview with the new Czar, and with that Count Pahlen who had headed the assassinators of Paul in his bedroom. The Russians feted him and found him the facsimile of their ' young Suwarcff.' Nelson's new triumph — one of navigation, of strategy, and of ubiquitous diplomacy as well — which had again saved England and awoke the unmeasured gratitude of the people, met with the same chill reception from the Government as of old. Nelson had always been his own Admiral. He habitually disobeyed orders : it was intolerable. They * Morrison MS. 572. - Among many other instances, cf. ' There is an old black servant, James Price, as good a man as ever lived ; he shall be taken care of, and have a corner in my house as long as he lives.' — Morrison MS. 589, May 26, 1801. * E.g. 'Our friend liowen.' — Pcttigrew, vol. ii. p. 151. 374 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON suspected the armistice that he had made in the thick of the battle ; all along, the white flag seems to have pursued Nelson with misconstruction. He has himself recorded in two letters to Lady Hamilton a telling vindication, which does honour to his humanity and to his prudence.^ He did not conceal his vexation. ' I know mankind well enough,' he told Hamilton, ' to be sure that there are those in England who wish me at the devil. If they only wish me out of England, they will soon be gratified, for to go to Bronte I am determined. So I have wrote the King of the two Sicilies, whose situation I most sincerely pity.' He comforts himself that he is ' backed with a just cause and the prayers of all good people.'^ No medals were struck for Copenhagen ; even the City began to flag in its appre- ciation. He flew out against the Lord Mayor who had once said, ' Do fou find victories, and we will find rewards.' It was not for himself but for his officers that he coveted the latter ; and yet, as he was to write in the following year, ' I have since that time found two complete victories. I have kept my word. They who exist by victories at sea have not' ^ Nelson ' could not obey the Scriptures and bless them.' The victory itself he extolled as the most hard-earned and complete in the annals of the navy.* Addington simply wanted the prestige that Nelson alone could confer ; it was the common case of mediocrity against genius. And Nelson was further troubled not only by wretched health and disappointment at the frustration of an earlier return, but by the blow of his brother Maurice's death. Amid his own engrossing avocations, he hastened to assure the poor blind 'widow' that she was to cease fretting over her prospects, remain at Laleham, and count on him as a brother. ' I am sure you will comfort poor blind Mrs. Nelson,' he writes to Emma. Both Sir William and Emma cheered him under depres- 1 Cf. Morrison MS. 579, 580. 2 Cf. Morrison MS. 571, Nelson to Hamilton, April 27, 1801. 3 Cf. his letter to Davison, Eg. MS. 2240, f. 139, and zdid. f. 109 : ' It was a sight which no real man could have enjoyed. I felt that when the Danes became my prisoners, I became their protector. ... By her armistice we tied the arms of Denmark for four months from assisting our enemies and her allies.' * Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 225. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE^ MERTON 375 sion. He had now done enough, wrote Sir William. It was the ne plus ultra. He quoted Virgil : — ' Hie victor caestus artemque reponam.'^ As for Emma, let Sir William's words depict her : — ' You would have laughed to have seen what I saw yesterday. Emma did not know whether she was on her head or her heels— in such a hurry to tell your great news, that she could utter nothing but tears of joy and tenderness.' Once more she is 'the same Emma' — the Emma after the battle of the Nile.2 Nelson responded with avidity to his now ' dearest, ami- able friend.' As her birthday neared he reminded her of those happy times a year gone by, and contrasted them with the present — * How different, how forlorn.' His body and spirit, like his ships, required refitting. His 'wife' alone, he wrote, could nurse him, and only her generous soul comfort the ' forlorn outcast.' He suspected that the Admiralty wanted to replace him. He would willingly have re-commanded in the Baltic, should emergencies re- arise, if only they would concede him his needed interval of rest. He ' would return with his shield or upon it.'^ With his shield the Pacificator of the North at length landed at Yarmouth on the ist of July. He repaired first to Lothian's hotel, as usual, but he was soon ensconced with the Hamiltons. He was not suffered to remain long. While the King and Queen of Naples — still Emma's amie sceur — were besetting him with lines of sympathy in the hope that he might re-emancipate them from renewed distress in the Mediterranean, Nelson was ordered, at the end of July, to baffle Buonaparte once more in the Channel. The meditated invasion of England terrified the nation. Consols tumbled, panic prevailed ; all eyes were fixed on the one man who could save his country. 1 ' The champion boxer now hath played his part, Let him lay down at once his gloves and art.' - For the preceding, cf. among other authorities Morrison MS. 589, 590, 596, 605; Nelson Lellers, so\. ii. pp. 310, 313; Add. MS. 34,274, f. G. ; Pettigrew, vol. i. p. 451 ; vol. ii. " Pettigrew, vol. i. pp. 440, 442; vol. ii. p. 45 ; Add. MS. 34,274, f. G. ; and Morrison MS. under dates of April and May /tZJJiVw. 176 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON But an unheroic interlude happened before his worn frame was again called upon to bear the strain. Emma it was who took him out of town. Their first ramble was to Box Hill ; and thence they went to the Thames. Sir William, as angler, frequented the ' Bush Inn ' at Staines — ' a delightful place,' writes Emma, ' well situated, and a good garden on the Thames.' 'We thought it right to let him change the air and often.' She had been ill at ease, chafing at the doubtful predicament in which devotion to the lover and care for the husband increasingly placed her ; ^ this little trip might afford a breathing-space. ' The party,' relates Emma,^ ' consisted of Sir William and Lady Hamilton, the Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Nelson, Miss Nelson and the brave little Parker, who afterwards lost his life in that bold, excellent and vigorous attack at Boulogne, where such unexampled bravery was shown by our brave Nelson's followers.' 'Old Q.'^ and Lord William Douglas, detained with a sigh in town, forwarded their apologies in verse : — ' So kind a letter from fair Emma's hands, Our deep regret and warmest thanks commands,' and so forth. It satirises the parson's gluttony and banters his chatterbox of a wife. It depicts ' Cleopatra ' rowing ' Antony ' in the boat. It dwells on the old ' Cavaliere ' and his ' waterpranks,' his ' bites,' his virtu, his memories of excavation, and his stock of endless anecdotes. It holds up to our view poor, fatuous Hamilton as a prosy raconteur. ' Or, if it were my fancy to regale My ears with some long, subterraneous tale. Still would I listen, at the same time picking A little morsel of Staines ham and chicken ; But should he boast of Herculaneum jugs, Damme, I 'd beat him with White's* pewter mugs ' ; ' This is evident from the terms of Maria Carolina's answer to her letter of about this date, Eg. MS. 1616, f. 125. 2 Cf. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. no. Her original indorsement on the verses is among the Eg. MS. 1623. ^ If any should wish to explore this accomplished four's career, they should consult a rare and amusing little book, The Piccadilly Afnbulator, by J. Hur- stone (1808). ' Old Q. ' is called the ' D. of Quizz. ' The book makes much of his love of gambling, but breathes not a word about Lady Hamilton. ^ The host. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 377 while little red-cheeked, sloe-eyed Charlotte, rod in hand, yet shuddering at the fisherman's cruelty towards ' the guileless victims of a murderous meal,' is adjured to ' Heave a young sigh, and shun the proffered dish.' Emma's life was now wholly Nelson's ;i it is a relief to pass to a worthier scene. The main toils of the Channel defence were over. So was Nelson's keen disappointment in the deferred arrival of the Hamiltons to visit him at Deal on the Amazon? Sir William had been with Greville to look after the Milford estate.^^ It was mid-September, and that second ' little Parker,' the truest friend of the man who felt that ' without friendship life is misery,' ^ lay dying. Nelson had styled himself Parker's father. The death of one so young, promising, and affectionate, desolated him, and he would not be comforted. It was Parker who had looked up to him with implicit belief and absolute self- forgetfulness ; Parker who had addressed his letters and run his and Emma's errands ; Parker who, he had recently told her, ' Knows my love for you ; and to serve you, I am sure he would run bare-footed to London ' ; ^ he had been called her ' aide-de-camp.' Together Nelson and Emma sat in the hospital and smoothed the pillows of the death-bed. Together they listened to his last requests and bade him still be of good cheer: for a few days there was 'a gleam of hope.' On September 27 he expired, and Nelson could say with truth that he ' was grieved almost to death.' ^ The solemnity of that moment can never quite have deserted Emma. Sad, but not hopeless, Nelson was purposely kept hover- ing round the Kentish coast until his final release towards the close of October. Yet Emma spurred him to his duty. ' In 1804 he wrote to her of ' Old Q.' : 'I love the old man, and would give up everything but you to him, and to all o\xx Joint friends, for I can have none separate from being yours.' — Morrison MS. 750. ■•* ' I came on board, but no Emma. I have 4 pictures, but I have lost the original.' — Morrison MS. 621. ^ Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 61. * Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 216. '"' Cf. the e.\cerpt from Nelson's letter to Lady Hamilton, * St. George, March 7,' in Sotheby's catalogue of July 8, 1905. Cf. App. Part 11. D. (i) (a). ^ Cf. Nelson's MS. letters to Davison, Eg. MS. 2240, ff. 72, 86, 87, 97, 102, 103 ; Morrison MS. 622. 378 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON * How often have I heard you say/ he wrote to her at this very time, ' that you would not quit the deck if you came near a Frenchman ? ' ^ He made use of his time to forward Hamilton's interests with Pitt, on whom he called at Walmer, but found 'Billy' 'fast asleep.' As he walked back, a scene with Emma of the previous spring rose again before him : * The same road that we came when the carriage could not come with us that night ; and all rushed into my mind and brought tears into my eyes. Ah ! how different to walking with such a friend as you, and Sir William, and Mrs. Nelson.' In her anxiety for his return, Emma actually upbraided him with being a 'time-server.' 2 The Admiralty would not yield even 'one day's leave for Picca- dilly.' It was the 14th before he could tell her with gusto 'To-morrow week all is over — no thanks to Sir Thomas.' ^ Just before his flag was struck, he wrote, in pain as usual, ' I wish the Admiralty had my complaint ; but they have no bowels, at least for me.' * He was now at length to possess a homestead and haven of his own. ' Whatever Sir Thomas Troubridge may say,' he wrote to his ' guardian angel ' in August, ' out of your house I have no home.'^ Even before the Copenhagen conquest, he and his ' dearest friend,' at this moment with poor Mrs. Maurice Nelson, the widow of Laleham,^ had been mooting to each other projects for such a nest. He would like, he wrote, ' a good lodging in an airy situation.' ' A house in Turnham Green and others had been rejected, but at last one suitable had been found. Like almost everything connected with them both, difficulties and a dramatic moment attended its acquisition. The prelimin- aries of the Peace of Amiens ^ were yet a secret, but Nelson had informed himself of the coming truce, so acceptable to ^ Ct. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. i6i. ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. pp. 69, 96. He dined with Pitt, however, three days before quitting the Amazon. Ibid. p. 92. ^ Letter dated "■ Amazon, October 14, 1801,' in Mrs. Hampden's ownership. * Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 34. ^ From Sotheby's catalogue of 1904. Nelson to Lady H., ' Medusa at tea,' August 24, 1 80 1. ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 62. ~' Morrison MS. 570. " The treaty itself was not signed till the following March. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 379 him. Before its ratification had been divulged, Merton Place was bought — in the general depression — for the low sum of six thousand pounds. But even this amount of capital was not easy for Nelson to raise, and the enthusi- astic Davison — one of the few friends to whom Nelson would ever lie under the slightest obligation — lent him the money} Sir William seems to have objected to Emma's town hospitality to her relations. Nelson found in this an additional reason for purchasing a roof-tree which he de- sired her to treat as her own.'^ ' I received your kind letters last evening,' he wrote to her on this and other heads, ' and in many parts they pleased and made me sad. So life is chequered, and if the good predominates, then we are called happy. I trust the farm will make you more so than a dull London life. Make what use you please of it. It is as much yours as if you bought it. Therefore, if your relative cannot stay in your house in town, surely Sir William can have no objection to your taking to the firm [her relation] : the pride of the Hamiltons surely cannot be hurt by settling down with any of your relations ; you have surely as much right for your relations to come into the house as his could have.'^ The whole affair was left entirely to Emma's manage- ment. She pelted Nelson's solicitor, Hazlewood, with letters, begging him to hurry forward the arrangements, and pressing the proprietor, Mr. Graves,"* to oblige Lord Nelson's 'anxiety.' Builders and painters were in the house immediately, to fit it for the hero's reception. The indispensable Mrs. Cadogan, now in charge of Nelson's new 'Peer's robe,'^ bustled in and out, covered to the elbows with brickdust. Emma set to work with a will, organising, ordering, preparing: in rough housework she delighted. She 1 For the foregoing cf. Morrison MS. 6n, 620, 622; Eg. MS. 2240, f. 106. - All the letters henceforward to Lady Hamilton at Merton are addressed to her 'at Viscount Nelson's, Merton Place.' " Cf. excerpt from a striking letter — 'Amazon, September 23, iSoi ' — from Nelson to Emma in Sotheby's catalogue for July 8, 1905. ■• Earlier in the eighteenth century it had belonged to the Chittys. Up to a few years before the purchase by Nelson, the house had always gone with the rectory. Cf. Lysons's Environs 0/ London, supplement ist edn., p. 46. "' Nelson /.cticrs, vol. i. p. 105. 38o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON and her mother set up pigstyes, arranged the farm, stocked with fish the streamlet, spanned by its pretty Italian bridge. She procured the boat in which Nelson had promised she should row him on that miniature ' Nile,' which was really the Wandle. Day after day they slaved— glad to be quit of the artificial life in Piccadilly — so that all might be spick and span within the few weeks before the 22nd of October, the great day of Nelson's arrival. The whole village was eager to greet him. All the neigh- bours, the musical Goldsmids,^ the rustic Halfhides, the literary Perrys, the Parratts, the Newtons, the Pattersons, and Lancasters,2 were proud of the newcomers. Never had Merton experienced such excitement since one of the first Parliaments had there told Henry III. that the 'laws of England' could not be changed. There, too, the same sovereign had concluded his peace with the Dauphin — a good augury for the present moment. Nelson wanted to defray all the annual expenses, but Sir William insisted on an equal division, and rigorous accounts were kept which still remain. ' I have lived with our dear Emma several years,' he jests in a letter to Nelson, ' I know her merit, have a great opinion of the head and heart God Almighty has been pleased to give her, but a seaman alone could have given a fine woman full power to choose and fit up a residence for him, without seeing it himself. You are in luck, for on my conscience, I verily believe that a place so suitable to your views could not have been found and at so cheap a rate. For, if you stay away three days longer, I do not think you can have any wish but you will find it compleated here. And then the bargain was fortunately struck three days before an idea of peace got about. Now, every estate in this neighbourhood has increased in value, and you might get a thousand pounds for your bargain, ... I never saw so many conveniences united in so small a compass. You have nothing but to come and to enjoy immediately. You ^ The two daughters had already played and sung with Emma. Cf. London newspapers of September 29. Abraham Goldsmid, financier and philanthropist of Morden, and his brother of Roehampton, were great supporters of Pitt and much liked and trusted by the King. They both ended in suicide. - Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 52. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 381 have a good mile of pleasant dry walk around your farm. It would make you laugh to see Emma and her mother fitting up pigstyes and hencoops, and already the Canal is enlivened with ducks, and the cock is strutting with his hen about the walks.' ^ Hamilton still retained the house in Piccadilly ; he was now living above his means ; as fast as money came in, the ' housekeeping draughts ' drew it out. His grand entertain- ments had proved a bad investment.^ One cannot help smiling when Nelson tells Emma during her Merton pre- parations, 'You will make us rich with your economies.'* When Nelson at length drove down from London in his postchaise to this suburban land of promise, it was under a triumphal arch that he entered it, while at night the village was illuminated."* Here at last, and in the ' piping ' times of peace, the strange Tria juncta in uno were re-united ; what Nelson had longed for had come to pass. Here, too, the man who loved retirement and privacy might hope to enjoy them ; ' Oh ! how I hate to be stared at ! ' had been his ejaculation but two months before.^ And, above all, here he hoped to have Horatia with them in their walks, and to see her christened.*^ One of the first visitors was his simple old father,'^ who maintained a friendly correspondence with Emma.^ By the ^ Morrison MS. 638, Hamilton to Nelson, October 16, 1801 ; and of. ibid. and Nelson Letters, passim, under date of about that month. Some of my information comes also from autographs in private hands. Sir William himself gravely discussed as to whether barbel or pike should be excluded from the stream, and Nelson as gravely decided the point against the latter. - Morrison MS. 633. '' Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 102. '' Add. MS. 34,989, f. 51, and cf. newspapers of date. '•> Nelson L.etters, vol. i. p. 47. ' I will not be shewn like a beast,'' ibid. p. 55 and ibid. p. 85. " Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 62. " Eg. MS. 2240, f. 109. Nelson allowed him ^^500 a year, and in this letter he wishes him to have it on November 28 in advance, lie had written to con- gratulate his son on the return of himself and peace. ' In the words of an Apostle, you have fought a good fight.' He excused himself for keeping lonely Lady Nelson company. Morrison MS. 630. For Nelson's view of this ' de- testable subject,' cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. pp. 63, 105. A further letter from him to Nelson of December 5, 1801, was sold at Sotheby's this summer. * Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 189. The first letter of the Rev. Edmund Nelson of this year. He wrote again in December about a lad that he had recommended. He hopes she ' will celebrate with songs of praise the return of Christmas.' — Morrison MS. 645. 382 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON close of the year the William Nelsons also stayed at Merton to rejoin their 'jewel ' of a daughter.^ How smoothly and pleasantly things proceeded at first may be gleaned from Emma's further new letters to Mrs. William Nelson (then staying in Stafford Street), which find a place in the Appendix. Emma occasionally drives into London for ' shopping parties ' (shops she could never resist) with Nelson's sister-in-law. No sooner had Nelson returned, than they all went together to beg a half-holiday for Charlotte. — 'All girls pale before Charlotte'; and her classmate, a Miss Fuss, is ' more stupid than ever, I think.' — Charlotte came for her Exeat and fished with Sir William in the 'Nile': they caught three large pike. She helped him and Nelson on with their great-coats, ' so now I have nothing to do' ' Dear Horace,' whose birthday Nelson always remembered,^ must soon come also. Nelson was proud of Charlotte and of her ' improvement' under Emma's directions. Emma, too, was proud of her role as governess. Charlotte turned over the prayers for the great little man in church. They were al/ regular church-goers. ( Had not Nelson sincerely written to her earlier that they would do nothing but good in their village, and set ' an example of godly life'?)^ Nelson and Sir William were the ' greatest friends in the world.' (Did he ever, one wonders, call him ' my uncle ' ?) The ' share- and-share alike' arrangement answered admirably — 'it comes easy to booth partys.' They none of them cared to visit much, though all were most kind in inviting them. ' Our next door neighbours, Mr. Halfhide and his familly, wou'd give us half of all they have, very pleasant people, and Mr. and Mrs. Newton allso ; but I like Mrs. Halfhide very much indeed. She sent Charlotte grapes.' As for Nelson, 1 Charlotte : I have seen an autograph letter from Emma inviting Dr. Fisher of Doctors' Commons to meet them for him. Cf. />osf, chap. xiv. '" Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 107. ' Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 62. ' We will set an example of good- ness to the under parishioners.' He wished to buy everything from the villagers, and did so, as the very high accounts (in the Morrison MS.) testify. This very October, Admiral Lutwidge's wife had agreed with Nelson that Lady H. was an ' angel ' : — ' In short she adores you, but who does not ? You are so kmd, so good to everybody; old, young, rich or poor, it is the same thing.' — Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 78. PICCADILLY TO 'PARADISE' MERTON 383 he was 'very happy': — ' Indeed we all make it our con- stant business to make him happy. He is better now, but not well yet.' ' He has frequent sickness, and is Low, and he throws himself on the sofa tired and says, "/ am worn out!'' She hopes ' we shall get him up ' — a phrase reminiscent of the laundry. Hamilton himself averred to Greville that he too was quite satisfied. The early hours and fresh air agreed with him : he could run into town easily for his hobbies ; he was cataloguing his books ; he still hoped against hope that Addington would help him.^ Eden at length without a serpent — at least so Nelson and Emma imagined. Merton idyllicised them. ' Dear, dear Merton ! ' If only baby Horatia could be there (and soon she was) it would be perfect. As she was to express it in the last letter she could ever forward to him, and which he was never able to read — ' Paradise Merton ; for when you are there it will be paradise.' - ^ Morrison MS. 642, December 5. 2 Morrison MS. 845. The actual transfer of all Merton was not completed till the beginning of 1803. CHAPTER XII I EXIT 'NESTOR' January 1802 — May 1803 The winding high-road on the right of Wimbledon towards Epsom leads to what once was the Merton that Nelson and Emma loved. A sordid modern street is now its main approach, but there are still traces of the quaint old inns ^ and houses that jutted in and out of lanes and hedgerows. The house that many a pilgrim thinks a piece of the old structure is really the remains of Mr. Halfhide's or Mr. Newton's. Through a side road is found the sole relic of Merton Place that has braved the ravages of time and steam. Opposite a small railway station, and near a timber- yard, stands the ruin of an ivied and castellated gate, through which the stream meanders on which Emma would row her hero, around which the small Horatia played, in which Charlotte and Horatio fished ; while on its banks Nelson planted a mulberry-tree that Emma fondly vaunted would rival Shakespeare's. Goldsmid's Georgian house still stands; but Merton Place has vanished into the vista of crumbled yet unforgotten things. The ancient church, however, though enlarged and well restored, is much the same. Its church- yard still shows familiar names — Thomas Bowen, and the Smiths who were to be poor Emma's last befrienders. In the south aisle remains an old Venetian picture of the Deposition — the gift, doubtless, of Emma or Sir William.- The very pew on which they sat is still kept in the vestry. The hatchment with Nelson's bearings, which Emma presented after Trafalgar, still hangs in the nave. The fine old house — ' New Place,' which they must have passed so often — still ^ The Nag's K -1 and Nelson Arms. "^ The 1792 editio.. of Lysons's Enviiv is makes no mention of this picture, which it certainly would have done had it then been there. 384 E (J) as ^ > g. (5 i Ch if. - < < M 5 o z 2 < EXIT 'NESTOR' 385 fronts the church porch. Even when they were there, the famous Priory where the great Becket was educated, and round which Merton's feudal memories clustered, had been replaced by calico factories. How eagerly must Nelson have awaited a glimpse even of these, when he drove up along the Portsmouth road for his last brief sojourn in the home of his heart ; how wistfully must he have passed them, when the door clicked to, and off he rattled to eternity ! ^ The two snakes in the grass of ' Paradise ' Merton were lavishness and its contrast, Greville. Nelson's liberality was as unbounded as abused ; even his skin-flint brother William begged him to refrain in his own favour.- Applications rained from all quarters. A York- shireman wrote and said he would be pleased to receive ;^300. 'Are these people mad?' sighed the hero, 'or do they take me quite for a fool ? ' •' He was always bestowing handsome presents, while for his many regular benefactions he had sometimes to draw on Davison, And Emma's open- handedness was not far behindhand. She scattered broad- cast to her relations, to the poor, deserving or the reverse. The Connors soon began to prey on her anticipated means. Money burned a hole in her pocket, and she never stopped to think of the future. Before the year closed she left a note from Coutts for her husband on her toilet-table to the effect that her ladyship's balance was now twelve shillings.* Greville must have shuddered when his uncle forwarded it to him. 'Sensibility' was always over-drawing its banking account, and ' Nature ' continually forestalling expectations. Added to largesse was some extravagance, but not to the degree that has often been put forward : it was by no means enormous, and in these days might be considered normal for her husband's position.'^ Emma was in a holiday mood. ' The best picture of Merton Place is by Locker, to whom Lady Hamilton gave a plan in Nelson's autograph of the blockade of Cadiz, drawn a short time before he lost his arm. Cf. Sotheby's catalogue of a sale in 1904. In this picture the figures walking in the garden are Lady Hamilton, Horatia, and the young Horatio Nelson. - Cf. Morrison MS. 664. ^ Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 103. ■* Morrison MS. 694. ^ Cf. inter alia the jewellery bill given in the Appendix, Part 11. C. (14). Another bill for jewellery was sold with the catalogue of Emma's effects in 1S08 this year at Sotheby's. 2 B 386 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamilton would not brace himself to the real retrenchment of giving up the London house, nor would Emma forgo superfluities. Merton, though with intervals of quiet, became open house. Nelson's sisters, with their families — the Boltons with six, the Matchams with eight, his brother, still hunting for preferment, with his ' precious ' Charlotte, and little Horatio, the heir ; old naval friends, including ' poor little fatherless Fady,' ^ whom, it will be remembered, Emma tended in 1798.- Emma's kindred, Italian singers, the theatrical and musical Mrs. Lind, Mrs. Billington, and Mrs. Denis ; ' ' Old O.' from Richmond, Wolcot the satirist, Hayley from Felpham, Dr. Fisher from Doctors' Commons ; Admiralty big-wigs, disgusted officials, noisy journalists, foreign bearers of Nelson's decorations, the Abb^ Camp- bell,* Prince Castelcicala the Neapolitan ambassador,^ the Marquis Schinato,^ Maria Carolina's own son, Prince Leopold — all were indiscriminately welcomed. It was a menagerie. The Tysons, too, were now at Woolwich, and to them, as Nelson's attached adherents, Emma was all attention. She chaperoned their young people to balls.'^ She healed their conjugal differences: Mrs. Tyson was never so happy as at Merton, when her dear husband was restored to her, and she could at last ' take the sacrament with a composed mind' and ' bless dear Lady Hamilton.' Benevolence, hospitality, and racket each mingled in the miscellany, and all of them tended to outrun the constable. The cellar was stocked with wine. Only last September Nelson had ordered three hundred dozen for the Amazon, and this, with much else, may have been transferred from the ship to the home. When, seven years later, Emma's 1 Cf. chap. i. ^ He was the bearer of letters from Emma to Nelson at Toulon in 1804. Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. lo. ' He appears to have grown a fine young man.' ^ Mrs. Denis was herself n^e Lind, and the two families were to intermarry again in 1810. Cf. Morrison MS. 994. This was the mysterious ' Monk ' who, the Metnoirs of Lady Haviilto^i (1815) declared, was always in Emma's train. '•> Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 54. *• For these last two, cf. Morrison MS. 648 ; Add. MS. 34,992, f. 192, from Dr. Fisher to Lady Hamilton, 1806. ^ One of them given by the Rev. S. Horsley, the grandfather of the late Royal Academician. Cf. Morrison MS. 696. EXIT 'NESTOR' 387 affairs were liquidated, the valuation of the cellar amounted to no less than two thousand pounds. Nelson, who had protested against large gatherings, affected to enjoy Liberty Hall ; all that his Emma com- manded was exemplary. And, indeed, as appears from the accounts preserved in the Morrison autographs, the profusion was far greater in London,^ allowing for the expenditure of ^ The accounts of this summer in Appendix D. of the Morrison Collection vary from about £,2'] at Merton to as much (twice) as £\oo per week at Picca- dilly (including Merton expenses also). These were continued for a week after Hamilton's death by Greville as his executor. Here is a specimen of a high week, but most are merely iox £0;] or so. It comes, of course, from the Mor- rison MS., and it should be noticed that it includes large items for stores and arrears of bills which do not recur and were not current expenditure. It is very different, however, from the Edgware Row days of ' Poor man, one halfpenny.' ' From the ^th to the nth October 1802. Mr. Haines, Poulterer, .... Mr. Stinton, Grocer, .... Mr. Coleman, Fishmonger, . Mr. Wyld, Cheesemonger, Mr. Scott, for brown stout. Coachman, for turnpike and expenses at different from Merton to London, etc., . Mr. Gadd, Baker, Mr. Cummins, for washing, . Mr. White, for 4 lbs. coffee sent to Merton, To Richard, for turnpike at different limes, Mr. Lucas, for milk, .... Mr. Perry, Pastry Cook, Mr. Greenfield, Butcher at Merton, Mr. Cribb, for vegetables at Merton, Mr. Skelton, Baker at Merton, Mr. Boyes, for letters at Merton, . Mr. Woodman, chandler shop at Merton, Mr. Woodman, for charcoal, etc., . Mr. Foottit, for malt, hops, etc., . Mr. Whitmore, for poultry, . Mr. Stone, Brandy Merchant, Mr. Belthese, for fruit sent to Merton, . Paid for carriage and porterage for 4 hampers, Expended at Merton by Mrs. Cadogan, . Expended in the town house from 4th to nth October, £7 0 6 4 19 8 4 0 8 2 7 8i 2 S 0 0 15 7 0 7 4 0 7 2 0 12 0 0 13 II 0 2 oh 10 10 9 8 12 loj 2 13 6 I 17 0 0 16 4 0 12 8i 15 5 10 18 IS 0 I 16 J Last week's account brought over, Total expended from 27th September to nth October, . ;i^i83 15 4 (Paid Mr. White, October 19, N. & B., £()i 17s. 5d.) I 3 I 0 0 9 £ii^ 4 I 13 4 0 10 14 oi ^"7 66 8 2i 7 li £i^ 15 4 388 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON both houses. The joint weekly expenses at Merton were often no higher than some ;^30. Hamilton, however, whose own extravagance contributed, though he justified it by hopes from Addington, soon began to murmur. Greville, the monitor, was at his elbow. The heir's prospects were being im- perilled by that very Emma whose thrift he had first incul- cated and extolled ; it was too bad ; he must protect his old uncle, who protested to him that only fear of an ' explosion ' which might destroy his best friend's comfort stopped his rebellion against a ' nonsensical world ' invading his quiet.^ Before the year was out he even meditated an amicable separation. He did not complain ; he still loved her. But he could not but perceive that her whole time and attention were bestowed on Nelson and ' his interest.' Therefore (and Greville's voice recurs in what follows), after his hard fag at Naples, at his waning age, and under the circumstances, a wise and well-concerted separation might be preferable to 'nonsense' and silly altercations. He had not long to live, and ' every moment was precious ' to him. He only wanted to be left alone at Staines, or Christie's, the Tuesday Club, the Literary Society, and the British Museum. ' Nestor ' con- tinued a philosopher. They might still get on well enough apart, or together, if Emma would but consult the comfort of a worn-out diplomatist and virtuoso : ' I am arrived at the age when some repose is really necessary, and I promised myself a quiet home, and although I was sensible, and I said so when I married, that I should be superannuated when my wife would be in her full beauty and vigour of youth ; that time is arrived, and we must make the best of it for the comfort of both parties.' He ' well knew ' the ' purity of Lord Nelson's friendship ' for them both. Nelson was their best friend, and it would pain him deeply to disturb his life or hurt his feelings. ' There is no time for nonsense or trifling. I know and admire your talents and many excel- lent qualities, but I am not blind to your defects, and con- fess having many myself; therefore, let us bear and forbear, for God's sake.' - The voice of this last appeal is that of the kindly old * Morrison MS. 651. ^ Morrison MS. 684, and cf. 679, 680. EXIT 'NESTOR' 389 epicurean, and not of the calculating cynic. Emma, erring Emma, responded to it, and peace was restored for the few months remaining. So far, our entire sympathy must be with the worried and injured Hamilton. But ere this his necessities, and the cunning use to which his nephew seems to have put them, had prompted a plan which must lower him in our estimation. As a rule, when Greville was asked (and he often was) to Merton, he politely excused himself. So anxious was Sir William for his presence that he actually assured him of Nelson's 'love,'^ whereas Nelson, as we know, misliked the cold-blooded caster - off of his paragon. Greville, however, perpetually sent his warmest messages to the whole party, including his old acquaintance Mrs. Cadogan. With Greville, by hook or crook, a strange scheme was now to be concocted. Failing the princely aid of the previous spring, a bargain after his own heart was being revived. It will be recollected that Beckford, wearied of solitary magnificence, had offered Sir William a large annuity if he could induce royalty to grant a peerage to Hamilton with a reversion to himself. The Marquis of Douglas, heir of the ninth Duke of Hamilton and head of the clan, had shown symptoms of attachment to Euphemia, Beckford's daugh- ter, whom in the end he married. If this attachment could be played upon for the purpose by the wary diplomatist, Beckford's object and Hamilton's might be secured. For such a plum Beckford now proposed a life annuity of ;^2000 that his kinsman might maintain the dignity of the peerage, and after his death one of ;^500 to Emma; while, as a bribe to ministers, Beckford's ' two sure seats ' were to be at their disposal. Hamilton opened his mind the more freely to his ' dear Marquis ' on this ' delicate ' business since there existed a ' very remarkable sympathy between them.' Beckford had actually sent his West India agent to Morton for the manage- ment of this affair. Sir William ridiculed the mere notion of himself coveting such empty honours. He might, how- ever, be useful to his friends, and no echxt need attend the ' Moirisun MS. 642. 390 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON transaction. Beckford had ' strong claims on Government.' An idea had struck Hamilton that the Marquis might one day be intimately connected with the Fonthill family. He did not demand definite answers ; he was ' sensible of its being a delicate point,' yet he could not help flattering him- self that ' the good Duke of H. and myself would readily undertake anything for Emma's and my advantage, pro- vided it could be done sans voiis comprojuettre trop.' The Marquis promptly answered his kinsman's ' very kind and confidential letter from Merton ' by a gentle refusal. He found town very empty, but a select few, his books, papers, and pictures, contented him. As to the matter in hand, it was, he feared, quite impracticable. With regard to his own inclinations, ' any symptoms of any sort "which might have" appeared in any part of his family ' were unknown to and unencouraged by him. Hamilton must convey every kind expression to Lord Nelson and Lady Hamilton ; to himself he need not name his regard, and he was and ever should be his affectionate friend.^ Poor ' Nestor ' ! To this pass have art and ambassador- ship brought him. And, alas, poor Emma, that she, too, should enlist her Nelson in such a service ! This disappointment happened in the summer, but in the spring an event occurred which cast real gloom over the Merton household. In April died, at his favourite Bath, the well-loved father, that kindly, upright English clergyman, whom his great son fondly cherished, and whom he had actually wished to be a permanent inmate of the household. Nelson's health immediately grew worse.- His first care, however, was for others, for his brother and sisters and his father's old man-servant.^ Condolences poured in upon him ; nor was Emma the least grief-stricken, for this truly Chris- tian soul had treated her with chivalrous charity, had wholly refrained from cruel speculations, and had rather sought to raise the thoughts of this strange incomer into Horatio's 1 Morrison MS. 673, 674, 678. - Cf. Mrs. Bolton's letter from Cranswick to Lady Hamilton, Morrison MS. 666. He had had to consult an oculist as to an operation on his eye. For his general health also he now consulted his friend and correspondent Dr. Moseley. Cf. excerpts from Sotheby's catalogue of July 8, 1905. ' Cf. Eg. MS. 2240, ff. 127, 137. EXIT 'NESTOR' 391 life.i While the brother flattered for gain, while every appli- cation for Nelson's favour came through her, she had known and felt that Nelson's father, who refused to realise the truth, was wholly good as well as godly. She was in London at the time, and what she wrote has not survived. Sir William's letter has. It is characteristic of his ' philo- sophy'— that of the best of all possible worlds': — 'Piccadilly, April 28, 1802. '. . . Emma says I must write a letter to you of condol- ence for the heavy loss your lordship has suffered. When persons in the prime of life are carried off by accident or sickness — or what is, I believe, oftener the case, by the ignorance and mistakes of the physicians — then, indeed, there is reason to lament. But, as in the case of your good father, the lamp was suffered to burn out fairly, and that his suff'erings were not great ; and that by his son's glorious and unparalleled successes, he saw his family ennobled, and with the probability in time of its being amply rewarded, as it ought to have been long ago — his mind could not be troubled, in his latter moments, on account of the family he left behind him. And as to his own peace of mind at the moment of his dissolution, there can be no doubt, among those who ever had the honour of his acquaintance. . . .'- Before the blow, however, had fallen that saddened Merton, a musical party was given at which Braham, who was afterwards to sing, amid furore, the ' Death of Nelson,' was the chief performer. Nelson had much offended a society that longed to lionise him by sequestering himself from it altogether. Except at the assemblies of the Hamiltons' friends, he seldom figured at all, and the outraged Lady Nelson's advocates added this to their weightier reproaches against the ' horrid ' woman at Merton. He preferred even Bohemian routs to the solemnities of Downing Street and the frivolities of Mayfair, though he disliked all gatherings but those of intimate friends. Among the guests of this evening was their old acquaint- ^ Cf. his Chiislnias letter tu her of 1801 (dated January 7, 1S02), Nelscn Letters^ vol. i. p. 191. - Ibid. vol. ii. p. 220. 392 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ance Sir Gilbert Elliot, formerly of Vienna. He was disgusted at the interior with its trophies and portraits, but, above all, with Emma herself. Doubtless the sight of him put her in her most self-assertive vein. The reader must form his own judgment; but at any rate Elliot, in this record, is quite wrong in supposing that the Hamiltons were ' living on ' Nelson. The Merton accounts in the Morrison Collection prove that all expenses were scrupu- lously shared. And when he brands Emma's effusiveness to Nelson as flattery, what would he have said had he been able, as we are, to read Nelson's own outpourings to Emma? If hers was 'flattery,' then still more was his. But Elliot was no psychologist, nor had he any insight into such emotional temperaments. ' . . . The whole establishment and way of life is such as to make me angry as well as melancholy ; but I cannot alter it. I do not think myself obliged or at liberty to quarrel with him for his weakness, though nothing shall ever induce me to give the smallest countenance to Lady Hamilton. She looks eventually to the chance of marriage. ... In the meanwhile, she. Sir William, and the whole set of them are living with him at his expense. She is in high looks, but more immense than ever. She goes on cramming Nelson with trowelfuls of flattery, which he goes on taking as quietly as a child does pap. The love she makes to him is not only ridiculous, but disgusting. Not only the rooms, but the whole house, staircase and all, are covered with nothing but pictures of her and him, of all sizes and sorts, and representations of his naval actions, coats of arms, pieces of plate in his honour, the fiagstaff of L' Orient, etc., an excess of vanity which counteracts its own purpose. If it was Lady H.'s house, there might be a pretence for it. To make his own a mere looking-glass to view himself all day is bad taste. Braham, the celebrated Jew singer, per- formed with Lady H. She is horrid, but he entertained me in spite of her. Lord Nelson explained to me a little the sort of blame imputed to Sir Hyde Parker for Copenhagen. . . .'^ ^ Mtnio Life, etc., vol. ii. pp. 242 et seq. It should be noticed that not only is Elliot here inaccurate as to facts, but in his account of Hamilton's provision for Emma by his will in the following year. Thid. p. 283. EXIT 'NESTOR' 393 It was certainly a queer household for seemly self- importance to enter. Without question, there was warrant for worse than such superficial strictures as those in which Elliot here indulged. Emma had deteriorated, and she had never fitted the formalities of English drawing-rooms. Average folk, as will be seen hereafter, she charmed. But Elliot was too prejudiced to be either accurate or discrimi- nating. Emma was wholly offensive to him, and the patronising air of one whom Braham's pathos ' entertained ' may, after its own manner, have been offensive also. Sir Gilbert himself was a type of that 'good taste' which re- stricts itself to caste, and eschews good-fellowship. His looks on this occasion must have been vinegar, and can have ill accorded with that natural sweetness of expression which, by consent of friend and foe alike, distinguished Emma from first to last. Officialism had set itself against Nelson like a flint, and, likely enough, his devotee was supercilious to the enemy, whom probably she mimicked after he had gone, as she certainly used to mimic Nelson's fussy brother.^ Still, however it may be deplored, the stubborn fact remains that Britain's deliverer loved this woman's reality, and misliked the spirit of officialism ; that against him were arrayed the pettiest forces at home and the mightiest abroad. Nelson endures in history, and with him Emma, while the phantom of prim diplomacy has long receded into the vagueness of distance. To appraise Emma, not defence but understanding is requisite. Anti- pathy, like flattery, is the worst critic ; and pedantic antipathy is perhaps its worst form. Burleigh would have made a bad judge of the Queen of Scots, and Cicero of Cleopatra. Emma's 'immensity' had been for some time in evidence, and was grossened in the caricatures. She affected to think that fatness became her fine stature and large pro- portions. It was due, partly, to the porter- which she drank for the sake of her voice, and which, as appears in ' Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 14J. — ' Vou make me laugli when you imitate the Doctor.' - Cf. Madame Lc Brim's Aletnoirs, pp. 69 et scq. In the following year, after a private performance of the 'Attitudes' for the Dukes of Berri and Bourbon, she saw her take thiee bottles at supper. Their size is nut mentioned. 394 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the earlier letters of the Morrison Collection, had been for- warded by Greville to his uncle long before Emma had entered his life at Naples. In the June of this year, too, died Admiral Sir John Willet- Payne, who, after sitting in Parliament, had for some time been treasurer of Greenwich Hospital. Nelson must have known him, and curiosity is aroused as to whether Emma ever saw her first tempter again, and what he thought of her marvellous career. And in November was to flicker out that sensitive genius and singular being to whom Emma had been so beholden in her girlhood. Romney, wasting with melancholy, had resought the refuge of the Kendal roof-tree and the minis- tering wife so long neglected.^ In one of his conversations with Hayley, he told i.im that he had always studied 'Sensibility' by observing the fibrous lines around the mouth. It was Emma's mouth that had been a revelation to him. One cannot help wishing that some final corre- spondence between them may one day be discovered. For the summer, Hamilton and Greville had planned a long driving tour to the property at Milford, where the nephew and steward was anxious to show his uncle the best work of his life — a flourishing and contented settle- ment of labourers. Emma and Nelson accompanied them on the Welsh trip, which soon turned into a fresh triumphal progress for the hero of the Nile and of Copenhagen, who shamed the Government by remaining a Vice-Admiral. Before they started, William Nelson, who had just returned from 'bowing to Billy Pitt'^ at Cambridge, stayed at Merton, and he, his wife and their young Horatio, were added to the group of travellers. It is strange on this occasion to find the triple alliance of Nelson and the Hamiltons reinforced by Greville, before whom. Nelson told Emma, conversation must be restrained ; in his official presence they could not speak freely ' of kings and queens.' This journey, like its continental predecessor, was certainly not calculated to allay irritation in high places. They started on the 9th of July with Box Hill once more ^ For thirly-six years, with one interval in 1767. ^ Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 258. G. Ro.MNEY. From a rare ensraving by Madame Boiry after the medallion by Alphonso Hay ley. EXIT 'NESTOR' 395 — 'a pretty place, and we are all very happy.' ^ They went on to Oxford, where Nelson received the freedom of the city in a fine box to the music of finer orations, and where the Matchams joined the caravan. It was here that on a visit to Blenheim the Marlboroughs infuriated Emma by declining to receive her. She was determined to appeal, for herself and her hero, to the Caesar of the people. She per- formed her music both for the select and the vulgar. Every- where Emma beat the big drum of popular enthusiasm. The long high-roads, the swarming streets, the eager villages from Burford to Gloucester, from Gloucester to Ross, from Ross to Monmouth, Caermarthen and Milford, from Mil- ford to Swansea, from Swansea to Cardiff, were thronged with stentorian admirers. On the return journey, from Cardiff to Newport and Chepstow, and so to Monmouth again, on to Hereford, Leominster, Tenbury, Worcester, Birmingham, Warwick, Coventry, Dunstable, Watford, and Brentford,^ all turned out like one man to cheer the pos- tilioned carriages. Bells were rung, factories^ and theatres visited, addresses read, speeches made, the National Anthem and Rule Britannia sung by the shouting crowds. Wherever they went, the neighbouring magnates loaded Nelson and his friends with invitations, and Payne-Knight implored Emma for a visit.* And everywhere this exuberant daughter of democracy led and swelled the chorus. Her Nelson should '■h^ first.' ' Hip, hip, hip ! ' 'God Save the King ! ' ' Long live Nelson, Britain's Pride ! ' ' Join we great Nelson's name First on the roll of fame, Him let us sing ; Spread we his praise around. Honour of British ground. Who made Nile's shores resound — God save the King ! ' ' Eg. MS. 2240, f. 139, Nelson to Davison. ^ Cf. the accounts of this journey (of which the expenses were again strictly shared) preserved in the Morrison MS. 401-405. ^ Especially Chamberlain's china manufactory at Worcester. ^ Morrison MS. 685, August 15. At Chepstow the Rev. C. Esle, a devout worshipper both of Emma and Nelson, joined Ihcm, and afterwards told Emma that, revisiting the bridge there, he had met a ' poor sailor ' who had ' served ' under ' my Lord.' On this occasion, at Bath, he also met Captain Bowen. 396 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON It was Naples over again, and Emma was in her true element. Let the Elliots and their brotherhood look to themselves and dare their worst. They were routed now. The people were on the side of those who had toiled hard instead of peddling and prating, of those who had risked their lives to save their homes from the bogey of Europe. * Hip, hip, hip, in excelsis !' No wonder that, when all was over and, hoarse but happy, Emma reposed at Merton once more,^ awaiting a fresh but private jubilation on Nelson's approaching birthday, she took up her pen with triumph : — ' We have had a most charming Tour which will Burst some of THEM. So let all the enimies of the GREATEST man alive [perish ?] ! And bless his friends.' "^ In this same letter her native goodness of heart breaks out with equal vehemence about the death of 'poor Dod,' one of Nelson's countless proteges : ' Anything that we can do to assist the poor widow we will.' How this 'we' reminds us of the 'we' before Sir William had married her, which had so annoyed Legge ! And the sensation of this progress still tingled in the air. In October Lord Lansdowne begged in vain for a visit, should they stay again at Fonthill. Sir Joseph Banks, now 'crippled,' wrote to bless the wanderers. So did Ball, who told Emma that the episodes of their journey reminded him of the scenes with the Maltese Deputies.^ Her enthusiasm was still contagious. But this trip did not close without a conjugal breeze easily raised and easily calmed. Emma insisted on recruiting her health by her old remedy of sea-baths, probably at Swansea ; Hamilton, however, longed to get home. He was exhausted, and she was petulant, as the following little passage at arms bears witness : — ' As I see it is pain to you to remain here, let me beg of you to fix your time for going. Weather I dye in Picca- dilly or any other spot in England, 'tis the same to me ; but I remember the time when you wished for tranquillity, but now all visiting and bustle is your liking. However, I will do what you please, being ever your affectionate ' About September 19. - To Davison; Eg. IMS. 2240, f. 139. •* Morrison MS. 685, 691. EXIT 'NESTOR' 397 and obedient E. H.' On the back of it Sir William wrote : — * I neither love bustle nor great company, but I like some employment and diversion. ... I am in no hurry, and am exceedingly glad to give every satisfaction to our best friend, our dear Lord Nelson. Sea-bathing is usefull to your health ; I see it is, and wish you to continue a little longer ; but I must confess that I regret, whilst the season is favourable, that I cannot enjoy my favourite amusement of quiet fishing. I care not a pin for the great world, and am attached to no one as much as you.' On its fly-leaf Emma added, ' I go, when you tell me the coach is ready,' to which Hamilton retorted : ' This is not a fair answer to a fair confession of mine.'^ So ended the last of their tiny quarrels. Nestor was reconciled to Penelope. The sands of his life were fast running down, and he was soon to have that euthanasia which he had praised to Nelson. Emma's heart smote her as she beheld his fading powers. He suffered no pain, but he gradually sank. He was removed to Piccadilly, and by the March of 1803 it was clear that his end was in sight. Both Emma and Nelson were constant in their attendance and attention. It had been Nelson who, in his passionate outpourings, occa- sionally speculated on 'my uncle's' demise; but Emma, apart from gratitude and a sense of the wrong that she had done him, well knew that his death would remove a real friend and a loving counsellor. All the past rose up vividly, from the days of the selfishness of Greville, who was now again half-hardening himself against her, to those of the loving husband who had trusted and shielded her. Some feeling of sorrow, compunction, and forlornness possessed her. However grievously she had erred, she did her duty at the last. And at the last the old man's mind had wandered." On April 6, 1803, at eleven o'clock, Nelson wrote this hurried note to Davison : — ' Our dear Sir William died at 10 minutes past Ten this morning in Lady Hamilton's and my arms without a sigh ^ Morrison M.S. 679, 680, August 1S02. ■^ Eg. MS. 2240, f. 162 (misplaced in its order). 398 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON or a struggle. Poor Lady H. is as you may expect desolate. I hope she will be left properly, but I doubt.' ^ Greville had once more succeeded. Nelson would not so have written if Emma had not so felt. His feelings were coloured by hers. Among Nelson's papers remains one in Emma's handwriting intended for no eye but his, and to which no hypocrisy can be imputed: — ' April 6. — Unhappy day for the forlorn Emma. Ten minutes past ten dear blessed Sir William left me.'^ In all her private answers to condolence the refrain is the same — ' What a man, what a husband.' It can scarcely be called falsetto. Not until she had lost him did she realise all that he had been to her, and how she had wronged him. Strange as it may sound, she was stricken indeed.^ And yet her attitudinising heart soon alternated between different moods. She cut off her flowing locks and wore them a la Titus in the fashionable mode of mourning.* When Madame Le Brun met her a few months afterwards, she sat down and sang a snatch at the piano. On a later occasion the French paintress noticed that she had put a rose in her hair, and inquiring the reason, was told, ' I have just received a letter from Lord Nelson.' Later on, she consented to oblige Madame Le Brun by privately showing before a few of the noblesse emigree some of her ' Attitudes,' which she had never been willing to display in London. ' On the day appointed,' notes the artist in her chronicle, ' I placed in the middle of my drawing-room a very large frame, with a screen on either side of it. I had a strong lime- light prepared and disposed, so that it could not be seen, but which would light up Lady Hamilton as though she were a picture. . . . She assumed various attitudes in this ^ Eg. MS. 2240, f. 157. Nelson had shared Sir William's attendances at the Literary Society, and on April 17 he excused his attendance there to Sir J. C. Hippisley on the score of Sir William's 'irreparable loss.' Cf. excerpt in Sotheby's catalogue of July 8, 1905. ■^ Transcribed by Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 294. The letters of condolence to her all assume that she was truly grieved at an event which she must long have fore- seen. Cf. Ball's, Morrison MS., July 23, from Malta, and many others. ^ The Annual Register in its obituary speaks of Emma in the highest terms. ■* Her bill for the household mourning, as well as that for jewellery supplied during the previous year, is given in the Appendix, Part II. C. (14). Lady Hamilton as a Pompeiax Dancer From one of the "Attitudes." EXIT 'NESTOR' 399 frame in a way truly admirable. She had brought a little girl with her, who might have been seven or eight years old, and who resembled her strikingly.^ One group they made together reminded me of Poussin's " Rape of the Sabines." She changed from grief to joy, and from joy to terror, so that we were all enchanted,' Such a ' lime-light,' perhaps, revealing v/ithout being seen, was Emma's own organisation unconsciously ' lighting up ' the possibilities of others. Her ' Attitudes ' were the ex- pression of her successive and often self-deceiving emotions. In the old Indian music, we are told, are certain selected notes, called 'ragas,' that, separately and without harmonised relations, strike whole moods into the heart of the listener. Such, it seems to me, was her temperament, and such its function. Sir William Hamilton was buried- by the side of his first wife, as he had promised her twenty-five years before. A month after his decease the will was read in Piccadilly before the assembled relations — the Grevilles, the Cathcarts, the Meyricks, the Abercorns, and the rest.^ Nelson for- warded the announcement to Davison by Oliver. He had suggested the advisability of reading Sir William's deed of gift of the furniture to Emma before a full conclave, as it might otherwise ' be supposed that Mr. C. Greville gives Lady H. the furniture,' which her money had bought for Sir William. The will itself proved Nelson's suspicion of Greville's influence not altogether unfounded, and the fact ' vexed ' him sorely.* Though Hamilton had forestalled income, his means were ample ; even Elliot was astonished at the inadequate provision for his widow.^ To his ' dear ^ The insinuation is here obviously groundless. In 1795 Enima encouraged no lovers, and was regarded at Naples as a pattern for wives. This child may have been one of her nieces. Madame Le Brun also misdates the year as 1802. "^ About a fortnight after his death. Cf. the excerpt from Nelson's letter to Hippisley above cited. 3 Eg. MS. 2240, f. 164. " Eg. MS. 2240, f. 166. * Elliot Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 283. * Worse off than I imagined. ' He adds : ' She talked very freely of her situation with Nelson, and of the construction the world may have put unon it, but protested that her attachment was perfectly pure ' [Oh, Emma !] 'which I can believe, though I declare it is of no conse- quence whether it is so or not.' Maria Carolina also deplores her 'indifferent provision.' Cf. Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 322. 400 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON wife Emma ' he bequeathed a sum of ^300, and an annuity of ;^8oo, to include provision for her mother.^ In a codicil he recites that as he had promised to pay her debts, amounting to £700, but of this sum had only paid ;^25o, Greville was to pay her in advance the current annuity of ^800, for herself and Mrs. Cadogan, while the unpaid remainder of her debts she was to recover as a charge upon the arrears of pension owed him by the Government. The last arrangement was nugatory on the face of it. The Government that had disregarded Sir William was un- likely to regard his widow. It is but just towards Greville, who had been always at his uncle's elbow, to relate that within a week of Sir William's demise he urged his dying wishes on the then Foreign Secretary in the strongest terms, while at the same time he repeated his (Hamilton's) previous strictures on the Government's past treatment. ' I knowl he concluded, ' that the records of your office confirm the testimony of their Sicilian Majesties by letter as well as by their Ministers of circumstances peculiarly distinguished and honourable to her, and at the same time of high importance to the public service.' ' But Emma was thus left with no capital except the furniture, of uncertain value, and with an income diminished by a debt which her husband had promised to discharge, but of which only one quarter had been settled. Greville and his brother, the Colonel, were declared executors, the first being residuary legatee. To Nelson he gave an enamel of Emma ' as a very small token of the great regard I have for his lordship, the most virtuous, loyal, and truly brave character I ever met with. God bless him, and shame fall on all those who do not say Amen.' This avowal does Hamilton honour. Poor Nestor ! — however reluctant his 'submission,'^ whatever his mis- givings, he steeled himself against them to the last. I do not think that Hamilton was wholly befooled, but how could the Nelson that he loved reconcile to his conscience such tributes of trust from one whom he had long cherished with 1 Hamilton confided in his wife to provide for her mother, who was to have ;^ioo a year should she survive her daughter. 2 For a transcript from the original of this new and interesting document, substantiating Emma's assertion in one of her own memorials, cf. App., Part II. F. (i). The letter was, formally, one accompanying the return of Hamilton's ribbon of the Bath. •' Morrison MS. 651. J EXIT 'NESTOR 401 more than esteem ? He and Emma must both have felt a pang of shame and remorse. They had skated on thin ice together. Though their duplicity, uncongenial to the frankness of both, had been imposed on them by their united care for each other's interest, and Horatia's,i it had also imposed upon others. Bearing in mind every extenua- tion, one would fain forget this unlovely spectacle ; apart from extenuation it is hideous. Their falsity towards Hamilton cannot be condoned. Their sin had impaired Emma's sense, and Nelson's principle, of truth. Neither of them lost time in besetting the authorities for a grant both of pension and of compensation - which might clear her of debt. To Addington she wrote herself She was ' forced to petition.' She was ' most sadly bereaved.' She was now 'in circumstances far below those in which the goodness' of her 'dear Sir William' allowed her 'to move for so many years.' She pleaded for his thirty-six years' efforts for England at Naples. ' And may I mention,' she added, in words to be carefully scanned as the first expression of her claims, ' what is well known to the then administration at home — how I too strove to do all I could towards the service of our King and Country. The fleet itself, I can truly say, could not have got into Sicily but for what I was happily able to do with the Queen of Naples (and through her secret instructions so obtained), on which depended the refitting of the fleet in Sicily, and with that, all which followed so gloriously at the Nile. These few words, though seemingly much at large, may not be extravagant at all. They are, indeed, true, I wish them to be heard only as they can be proved ; and being proved, may I hope for what I have now desired.' Addington professed to Lord Melville, who spoke to him on the matter, that he would give the whole circumstances a favourable consideration. But Nelson from the first counted little on ' Horatia had actually been shown to Sir William as a child confided to Emma's and Nelson's care abroad, as will appear a few pages further on. - Hamilton, and Greville as his advocate, had repeatedly pressed the Govern- ment for a reimbursement of half the debt 'incurred by Public Convulsions.' The whole was stated by 1 lamilton as amounting to ;^30,ooo. ilamilton in his ilying conversations always pressed that not only his arrears of pension, but some portion of the pension itself might revert to his widow. 2 C 402 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON his assistance, though of Pitt, for the moment, he seemed rather more sanguine.^ But already, amid all these agitations, the supreme one of renewed severance from Nelson threatened. He had always prophesied that the truce of Amiens would not endure.'^ In May Napoleon divined the safe moment for breaking it. Russia was then friendly, and Austria hesitating. It was not till the following year, when his murder of the Due d'Enghien scandalised Europe, that Russia contrived the third coalition, which Prussia and Austria joined. Napoleon now prepared to invade Naples : his troops were soon to occupy Hanover. Our Ambassador, Lord Whitworth, was recalled from Paris. Maria Carolina assured Emma of her delight at the prospect of Nelson's renewed Mediterranean command, and Acton, who had by now assumed the super- intendence of Bronte,^ looked forward to seeing his old associate once more. Death, doubt, and despair confronted Emma together, but she did not quail. Her faults were many, but cowardice was never one of them. Her hero would win fresh victories and once more save his country. She little recked how long that absence was to last.* For the first time he had been with her for eighteen months, unparted. A wedding^ and a christening signalised the month of his departure, and showed Nelson and Emma together in public. In May, at the Clarges Street house, to which Emma had then been forced to remove, Captain Sir William Bolton married his cousin, the daughter of Nelson's sister and Emma's friend, Mrs. Thomas Bolton.^ Emma was after- wards to be godmother to their first-born, ' Emma Horatia.' '^ Sir William, for whose promotion Nelson always exerted ^ For the foregoing cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii. pp. 13, 131-34; Morrison MS. 710, 716. Nelson soon changed this mood ; cf. Nelson Letters, vol. ii.p. 43. 2 Morrison MS. 707. ^ After Grafer's recent death, and the appointment of Gibbs, the Palermo banker, as its agent. * Two years and three months. •^ From a letter of Nelson dated May 18, however, it would seem as though the wedding took place on the day of his departure. He there says to Lady If., ' I hope your marriage has gone off well, for the girl may thank you (if it is worth thanking) for her husband.' * Cf. Harrison, vol. ii. p. 454. ' v. post, chap. xiv. EXIT 'NESTOR' 403 himself, proved somewhat of a booby, to Nelson's amused chagrin. And three days before he said farewell, Horatia was baptized in the same Marylebone church which had wit- nessed her mother's marriage. The nurse had already brought the two years old child from time to time to see them at Merton. Nelson and Emma stood by the font as god-parents of their own child, and two clergymen officiated at the christening of ' Horatia Nelson Thomson.' Now, at least, she might soon find her home at Merton. NelsoR gave her a silver cup, a cup by which hangs a sad tale, and which, years afterwards, had to be sacrificed to poverty. Greville behaved very ill. He harshly denied her a moment longer than the end of April in the Piccadilly house. She applied to him, in the third person, to ascer- tain the precise limit of her stay, as she must ' look out for lodgings' and 'reduce her expenses.' ^ Nelson, how- ever, now resolved to allow her i^ioo a month for the upkeep of Merton,^ but unfortunately, though mainly residing at her 'farm,' she could not refrain from still renting a smaller town house in Clarges Street. An altercation ensued, it is said, between Nelson and Greville. At any rate, Greville's continued hardness towards Emma, soon to be accentuated by his deduction of the property-tax from her annuity, evoked the following from Nelson more than two years afterwards: — ' Mr. Greville is a shabby fellow. It never could have been the intention of Sir William but that you should have had seven hundred pounds a year neat money. ... It may be law, but it is not just, nor in equity would, I believe, be considered as the will and intention of Sir William. Never mind ! Thank God, you do not want any of his kindness ; nor will he give you justice.'^ At four o'clock on the morning of May 18, the postchaise drew up before Merton Place : only one trunk was in it.* Before any one was astir. Nelson had bidden his passionate ' Cf. Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 273; Morrison MS. 715. ^ Cf. his directions lo Davison, Eg. MS. 2240, f. 159. •^ Nelson Letters, vol. li. p. 68. Victory, August 30, 1804. * Nelson to Davison, Eg. MS. 2240, f. 174. 404 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON adieu, and had driven off with the dawn. From Kingston, on his road, he despatched the familiar line of consolation : — 'Cheer up, my dearest Emma, and be assured that I ever have been, and am and ever will be, your most faithful and affectionate.' He had hardly reached his destination when he resumed : ' Either my ideas are altered, or Portsmouth. . . . It is a place, the picture of desolation and misery, but perhaps it is the contrast to what I have been used to. . . . When you see my eleve^ which you will when you receive this letter, give her a kiss from me, and tell her that I never shall forget either her or her dear good mother.' ^ Two days later he again gave comfort from the Victory : — ' You will believe that although I am glad to leave that horrid place Portsmouth, yet the being afloat makes me now feel that we do not tread the same element. I feel from my soul that God is good, and in His due wisdom will unite us. Only, when you look upon our dear child, call to your remembrance all that you think I would say, was I present. And be assured that I am thinking of you every moment. My heart is full to bursting. May God Almighty bless you is the fervent prayer of, my dear beloved Emma, your most faithful, affectionate Nelson.' - The old trio had been dissolved, and a new trio reigned in its stead. Horatia now sanctified his existence, her portrait already adorned his cabin.^ Emma becomes Calypso no more, but Penelope— a Penelope, moreover, with repulsed suitors. On Greville's life — even on Hamilton's — she had been but an iridescence, but to Nelson she is light, air, and heat in one ; and what she was to him, that Nelson remains to her in perpetuity. ^ Cf. Appendix, Part II. E (4). * Morrison MS. 712, 713. ' Nelson Lciiers, vol. ii. p. 109. CHAPTER XIV PENELOPE AND ULYSSES June 1803 — Ja)iHary 1806 It is a far cry from Merton to the Mediterranean, but for Nelson the one was nearly as important as the other : the heart of Ulysses was with his Penelope. Estranged Greville straightway took up his uncle's mantle, exchanging learned disquisitions with Banks about ' mud volcanoes in Trinidad.' Davison was trying to curb P!mma's extravagant schemes for Merton improvements, though he himself was now in election scrapes, and a few years later was, unfortunately, to rival St. George himself as a fraudulent contractor.^ Penelope (fretted and ailing), whether at Merton, Southend, Clarges Street, or Canterbury, by turns with the Matchams, Boltons, or Nelsons, sent daily reports to her wandering Ulysses. She tattled alike of her conflicting emotions, of the dukes and princes, her suitors,- and of her exertions to secure berths for countless appli- cants.^ All Nelson's nephews and nieces constantly found themselves a happy family under her roof, and Merton was now Merton Academy for Charlotte. Strange as it seems, Emma's relations and Nelson's were on affectionate and equal terms, her cousin, Sarah Connor, being now governess to the Bolton children, while Mrs. Matcham, Nelson's pet sister, actually wished to find a new house near Merton.^ ' Our good Mrs. Cadogan,' too, was beloved by his family and his friends, whom she provided from the dairy. She was the ' Such, alas ! was our patron saint. - Nelson called them ' /^.V a«(/ ().'.?' (Princes and Queensberrys). They in- cluded one, perhaps the Marcjuis of Douglas, whom Nelson styles 'the great Hashaw at the Priory.' — Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 23. •' Este, Sir William Bolton, the Denises, etc. * Vox part of this condensation, cf. Morrison MS. 724, 726-72S, 736, and passim under dates 1803-4; Eg. i\LS. 2240, f. 178; Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 136. The authorities are too many for citation. 406 4o6 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Merton economist, kept all too busy checking the accounts of the rapacious Cribb.^ Such was Penelope's chronicle. Nelson had only three thoughts — Emma, Horatia, and the French fleet. During the next three years, whether at Gibraltar or Naples, Toulon or, afterwards, La Rosas, and eventually off Boulogne, he mused on these, and these alone, by day ; he dreamed of them at night ; they pos- sessed him in fierce concentration. He was an inspired monomaniac, and the flame of his fanaticism both burnt and fired him to achievement. Different kinds of self- forgetful ardour animate every prophet. Adoration of his country, a woman, and a child, animated Nelson. In this he contrasts with all his colleagues and predecessors, who did their duty like stolid Spartans, unwarmed and unenticed by any dangerous glow. To the sober-minded, Emma is his will- of-the-wisp ; to him, she was his beacon. He calls her his Alpha and Omega ' ; he beseeches her not to fret. Her and the French fleet — ' to these two objects tend all his thoughts, plans, and toils,' and he will ' embrace them so close' when he 'can lay hold of either the one or the other, that the devil himself should not separate ' them. He longed ' to see both ' in their ' proper places ' — the one at sea, the other ' at dear Merton, which, in every sense of the word,' he expects ' to find a paradise.' He still deemed none worthy ' to wipe her shoes.' He vowed not to quit his ship till they could meet again. ' From Ambassatrice to the duties of domestic life ' he has never seen her equal ; her ' elegance, . . . accomplishments, and, above all, goodness of heart,' are ' unparalleled,' and he is devoted to her * for ever and beyond it.' Eagerly he treasured the slenderest tidings of her from officers returning to or from England. Each night, as Scott, his secretary — Scott, with his light- ning-struck head ^ — relates to Emma, he toasted their Guardian Angel, with a tender look towards her portrait, and a side glance, doubtless, at the smiling face of the child ^ He was a sort of steward at Merton, but he also supplied the green-groceries. He encouraged the extravagant expense of the Merton improvements. Cf. Davison's letter to Lady H., 'The Terrace, June 19, 1804'; Add. MS. 34,989. ff. 53. 54- - An actual fact. Nelson says that ' learning had turned it ever since.' This was not the Secretary Scott killed at Trafalgar, but the Rev. Dr. Scott. Cf. Life of the Rev. A. /. Scott ^ 1842. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 407 below it. To Horatia he addressed the first whole letter that he had written to her. He bought her a gold watch through Falconet of Naples, and forwarded it as a reminder of her liking to listen to his own ; he sent her a pretty picture-book of ' Spanish dresses/ bidding her be always good and obedient to her ' Guardian Angel, Lady Hamilton.' When, for the second time, he ensured such a settlement for Horatia's future as no imprudence could undo, he com- mended 'the dear little innocent ' to Emma, as certain to train her in the paths of religion and virtue. Emma's every concern interested him. In her letters he finds the ' knack' of hitting off and picturing topics to a marvel. Over her cousin, Charles Connor, now a midshipman under his charge, he watched like a father. As he passed Capri, recollection * almost overpowers ' his feelings. He enclosed for her the new entreaties of her old friends the King and Queen of Naples,^ while she transmitted to him Maria Carolina's letter to her, protesting the usual sympathy and gratitude. Amid his many engrossments he followed the projected improvements at Merton as if he were there — the new rooms and porch, the new road, the dike to fill up a part of the ' Nile,' the surrender of a strip to ' Mr. Bennett, which will save ;^SO a year,' the acquirement of another field, the * strong netting ' to surround the rivulet for little Horatia's safety. Davison had remonstrated over the expense ; Nelson directed him to proceed. He expressly enjoined her — a fact afterwards important — not to pay for them out of her income. He little guessed what a millstone she was hanging round her neck ; she was right to have her way ; all was right always that she did, wrote, or thought. He commended her to Davison's tenderest care. He chose her presents of shawls and chains from Naples. He recovered some of her lost furniture both at Malta and Palermo. He enclosed ^100 — for herself and the poor at Merton, together with gifts to Miss Connor, Mrs. Cadogan, and Charlotte, ' a trifling remembrance from me, whose whole soul is at Merton '; and her ' good mother' is always sure of his 'sincerest regard.' Emma's heart, too, was across the sea. She watched ' For Nelson's letters to the Queen, 1S03-4, cf. Life of the Rn\ A.J. Scott, pp. 113, 116. 4o8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON every wind, chance, and disappointment. When at South- end, where she met her old friend Jane Powell, the actress, she thought of little but Nelson and Horatia. She was in ill health ; but she was still 'patroness of the navy,' forwarding each officer's requests to, and his interest with, her Nelson. If she diverted herself with concerts, or teased her ogling suitors, at the same time she begged Davison to intro- duce her to Nepean,^ for her hero's sake. She kept the 'glorious first of August' with her friends, and only re- gretted that the Abb6 Campbell must be absent. She looked anxiously for letters, — ' despatches and sea breezes will restore you,' wrote Mrs. Bolton. She bought and sent off his very boots — a size, it would seem, too small. He has warned her never to spend her money 'to please a pack of fools,' nor to let her native generosity empty her purse even for his sisters, as she so often did ; not to hunt for a legacy from ' Old Q.' — Nelson (repeating her own phrase) ' would not give sixpence to call the King my uncle.' He regretted Addington's hard-heartedness in begrudging her an annuity, but Addington's tether was fast coming to an end. He got the Queen to address the Government on Emma's behalf, though he placed little reliance on the letter's efficacy or her friendship.^ When, nearly eighteen months later, he was baulked, as he usually was, of his prize- money, Emma characteristically wrote to Davison : — ' The Polyphemus should have been Nelson's, but he is rich in great and noble deeds, which t'other, poor devil, is not. So let dirty wretches get pelf to comfort them : victory belongs to Nelson. Not but what I think money necessary for comforts; and I hope our, yours, and my Nelson will get a little, for all Master O.' ^ How well does this accord with Nelson's own avowal to her of ' honourable poverty ' ! ' I have often said, and with honest pride, what I have is my own ; it never cost the widow a tear or the nation a farthing. I ^ Secretary to the Admiralty. ^ In a letter of August 27, 1804 {communicated by Mrs. Hampden), Nelson tells Emma that the King wrote to him, ' I think it very just that she should be helped.' The Queen's letter is said to have stated that Emma had been ' her best friend and preserver, to whom she was indebted certainly for her life, and probably for the crown.' Cf. Harrison, vol. ii. p. 416. It sounds very credible. ^ Sir John Orde. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 409 got what I have with my pure blood from the enemies of my country. Our house, my own Emma, is built upon a solid foundation.' ^ In September, so wretched was she away from him, that she implored him to let her come out and see him. * Good sense,' he replied, 'is obliged to give way to what is right, and I verily believe that I am more likely to be happy with you at Merton than any other place, and that our meeting at Merton is more probable to happen sooner than any wild chase in the Mediterranean.' ' It would kill you,' he repeated, * and myself to see you. Much less possible, to have Charlotte, Horatia, etc., on board ship.'- And as for living in Italy, 'that is entirely out of the question. Nobody cares for us there ' : it would cost him a fortune to go to Bronte, and be ' tormented ' out of his life.^ Indeed at this very moment he had serious thoughts of relinquishing Bronte altogether.^ Nelson was never self-indulgent ; he was unselfish, if not selfless, in devotion, even where he went most astray. Under dispiritments innumerable, and mortifications doubly galling to one of his temperament, through a catalogue of hardships which rival the apostle's, in weary wakefulness, in headache, eye-ache, toothache, and heartache, constantly sea-sick in the newly painted cabins which he abhorred, with a body, as he said, unequal to his spirit, he was alwa}-s thinking of and caring for others ; and it is this that endears him to us even more than his glory. At this very time he bade Emma do her utmost for General Dumouriez,-' the brave enemy turned into a friend — their friend ; not a sailor in the service but was proud of one of his ' . . . nameless, unremembered acts Of kindness and of love,' ' For the foregoing, cf. inter alia, Morrison MS. 717, 719, 724, 725, 734, 742, 749 passim for 1 803-4; ^'elsoti Letters, vol. i. pp. 78, 80, 99, 133, 136, 138, 142, 147, 149, 159, 165 ; vol. ii. pp. 6, 9, 14, 29, 44, 59, 64, 68, 127, 310; Pettigrew, vol. ii. pp. 310, 322, 336, 341, 352-53, 376-77 ; Eg. MS. 2240, ff. 185, 191-93, 204, 210, 217 ; Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 53, 54. - Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 160 ; Morrison MS. 733. •' Nelson L^etters, vol. i. p. 162. ■• Cf. the letter given in Appendix, Part il. D. (4). ' Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 144. 410 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON and his considerate maintenance of their health was his perpetual boast. There was, moreover, something daemonic about this wonderful man. At a glance he sweeps the horizon, intui- tively discerning the danger and its preventives. At Naples once more he renewed the royal gratitude, incited Acton, now rapidly falling into disfavour, and forecast the French designs at a time when Ferdinand wrote to him, ' the hand of Providence again weighs heavy on us,' when the Sicilians themselves, and even the Queen, were on the verge of turning towards Napoleon's risen sun, and our old acquaintance Ruffo, now ambassador, was off on the wonted wild-goose chase to Vienna. As in public, so in private, Nelson seems always to hear voices prompting him. He believes in a star that will guide him to victory and home. ' My sight is getting very bad,' he wrote, ' but I mzts^ not be sick till after the French fleet is taken,' at the very moment when it seemed further off than ever. Small wonder that, with such a leader, Davison ejaculated his certainty that sooner or later Buonaparte's Boulogne flotilla would *go to old Nick.' 1 Nelson this autumn retailed all the Neapolitan gossip for Emma. Napoleon had dictated to Maria Carolina the dismissal of her ex-favourite, Acton.'^ She herself, sur- rounded by French minions, had relapsed into the pecca- dilloes of a date prior to Emma's arrival, of which Acton used to tell them such amazing stories,^ The King had thrown the last shred of love for her to the winds.* It would not be long before Napoleon pounced on and annexed Naples;^ before the royalties were once more exiles in Sicily. The Princess Belmonte was mischief-making in ^ Morrison MS. 732. - Acton left in the summer of 1804, ' on account of some disgust with the French ambassador.' — Morrison MS. 762, Sir W. Bolton to Lady Hamilton. And of. the King of Naples' letter to Nelson from Portici, May 22, 1804: ' The ani- mosity of the First Consul demands that I must remove the worthy and well- deserving General. Buonaparte alleges his nationality.' — Eg. MS. 1623, f. 49. •■' Nelson Letters, vol. ii. p. 45. •* Cf. Eg. MS. 1623, f. 50, The King writes to Nelson, ' My wife, son, and I shall divide ourselves. She will take upon her the defence of Naples,' etc. He goes to Sicily, the Prince to Calabria, the rest to Gaeta. ' Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 165. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 4" London, and Emma must be careful of encountering her.^ All Sir William's old dependants were cared for ; one of his servitors, Gaetano, was already in Nelson's service, and pre- ferred it to home. Hugh Elliot was now ambassador, friendly,^ but futile. One of the Hamiltons' old abodes had become an hotel. Their ancient friend. Lord Bristol, was dead at Rome. He had once promised them the bequest of a table, but now ' There will be no Lord Bristol's table. He tore his last will a few hours before his death.' ^ These are trifles, but before reverting to Emma, let us rapidly glance at Nelson's doings during this year of 1804, during his tedious task of guarding the Mediterranean and watching Toulon (' blockading ' he would never term it : he hated blockades). He was endeavouring to decoy the French to sea — to ' put salt on their tails,' but save for a brief spurt in May, endeavouring in vain. As the French fleet was 'in and out,' so he was up and down — at Malta, Palermo, and when Spain rejoined the fray, at Barcelona, where the Quaker merchant 'Friend Gaynor' became a fresh intermediary with Emma. His ' time,' as he said, 'and movements depended on Buonaparte.' Impatient by nature, he could play the waiting game to perfection. Though his cough and swelled side continually troubled him, he was as indefatigable out of action as in it, and he disdained the mean advantage offered by any subordinate's breach of strict neutrality. He still hoped to force those unconscionable ships out of port. Tn^ville was now the Toulon Admiral, and Nelson ' owed him one ' for landing the Grenadiers at Naples in 1792. Amid the discourage- ments of long delays and the customary official threat to supplant him, he could look forward to eating ' his Christ- mas dinner at Merton.' Although, when his birthday came round, he was farther off from consummation than ever, and reminded Emma of his ' forty-six years of toil and trouble,' he refused to appear downcast. The accession of Pitt to power in the spring of 1804 cheered him, both on England's account and hers. He still regularly drank her health and * Acton to Nelson, 'Caserta, March 2, 1803 ' ; Eg. MS. 1623, f. 35. ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 763. ' Nelson Letters, vol. i. p. 157 ; cf. vol. ii. pp. 19, 54. Eccentric to the last, he did so to balk the Italian parasites around him. 412 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ' darling ' Horatia's. Her letters still brought before him the tranquillity of their days ; he rejoiced in her many acts of kindness, not only to his friends and relations, but to grateful strangers.^ He welcomed a tress of her * beautiful hair,' and treated it as a pilgrim does a relic. Even while he sat signing orders, he wrote to her, ' My life, my soul, God in heaven bless you.' He remembered the birthday of the ' dear beloved woman ' with emphasis. He instructed her to buy pieces of plate for their new and joint god- children,^ Even in his wrath at the capture of a vessel bringing her portrait and letters, he made merry over the admiration of them by the French Consul at Barcelona.^ While Emma was occupied with Horatia and her young charges from Norfolk, all had suddenly to be dismissed. Nelson's second daughter, ' Emma,' was born at the close of February.* The reader will recall Nelson's torrent of passionate love and anxiety in the ebullition cited ^ as applicable to his feelings at the time of Horatia's birth. At this very moment Horatia was unwell also, and her illness added to his ' raging fever ' of emotion, as he awaited Emma's news. Before July, the second infant of his hopes was dead.*^ Thorns there were besides roses at Merton. ^ Cf. besides repeated instances of Emma's abundant kindness, as well as bounties, one unknown one from a passage omitted by Pettigrew's citation of Nelson's letter to Emma of August 27, 1804. Through the kindness of Mrs. Hampden, I am able to supply this, and several other gaps. Nelson there says that Sir Robert Barlow is ' full of gratitude for your unremitted goodness to his daughters,' and desires some silk to be sent as ' there is nothing else worth your acceptance.' He also there says, ' Mrs. Cadogan's account of your dress made me laugh.' Emma never cared for elaborate fashions. 2 The ' Emma Horatia' of Sir William Bolton (his nephew by marriage), and the son of his cousin, ' William Suckling, and of Wibrew, his wife.' This child, it appears from the Merton parish register, was not actually baptized, in con- sequence of Nelson's prolonged absence, till his last short stay at Merton. '■* For this precis cf. Ne/soti Letters, vol. ii. pp. 27, 29, 31, 37, 49, 51, 60, 73, 77, 81, 85 ; Morrison MS. 752, 758 ; Eg. MS. 2241, ff. 224, 227, 242 ; Petti- grew, vol. ii. p. 309. This portrait was sold in July 1905 at Sotheby's. ■* The date could scarcely have been early March, for she was then writing long letters to George Rose about her claims. Cf. Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 239. ■'• Cf. chapter xii. p. 351. ^ It is said, of convulsions. Cf. Morrison MS. 746, 749, 752, 768 ; Nelson Letters, vol. i. pp. 135-175; vol. ii. pp. 77, 78. I have searched in vain for any trace of birth or death certificate at Merton. The infant was probably buried at Paddington, where her grandmother was afterwards to lie. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 413 All this while the correspondence of the Boltons and Matchams, both young and old, with Lady Hamilton, breathes affectionate regard, unfeigned admiration, and real respect. She is the best of friends ; her coming is eagerly awaited, her going keenly deplored, Eliza and Anne Bolton find in her a confidante, a trusted and trustworthy coun- sellor, the acme of the accomplishments that she knows how to impart to them. With the William Nelsons it was the same, though here, perhaps, the motives were less dis- interested. Charlotte adores her benefactress and educatress. As for the Navy, Louis and others, in their letters, look up to her almost with veneration. If Emma had the power of offending, that also of conciliating was hers. These are facts which cannot be wholly ascribed to the exaggerations of homely admirers, or to the self-interest of office-seekers ; not one of these people were ever to relinquish their fondness. Nothing can exceed the variety of contrasts in a nature to which it lends fascination. Emma's tissue is spangled homespun, but the spangles only overlie it. Let us ex- amine it on both sides. We watch her throughout these letters, on the one hand, simple, homely, sympathetic, with no good or humble ofifice beneath her, working in and for her house and her friends ; a Lady Bountiful dignifying the trivial round, and generous not only with her purse but with her time, her praise, and her exertions — a true Penelope by her spinning-wheel. And yet, on the other hand, we view her inhaling the fumes of homage, whether from the suitors or the crowd. We see her courting the flutter of Bohemia, while she cherishes her household gods, and hugging flattery though she has a keen scent for the flatterer. In like manner she borrows with far less consideration than she gives ; ^ nor does debt cause her a pang until its consequences are in sight. To the end she remains far more lavish to her lowliest kinsfolk and associates than to herself, while she conceals her unsparing * In May 1805 she wrote to Tyson, himself a poor man : — ' My dearest Tyson, the long absence of our dearest Nelson makes me apply to you,' etc. All her bankers' balance has evaporated in Merton improvements, for which Nelson has thanked her, promising to settle on return. She asks for a loan of £1^0. A letter quoted in Sotheby's catalogue, 1904. 414 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON generosity quite as much as her waste. So far from ' affect- ing to be unaffected ' — that ' sham simplicity which is a refined imposture' — she rather affects affectation, whether from whim or in self-defence. Devoid of the petty vanities of fashion, she is vain of her power. Tender in excess to her friends, to her foes she can be overbearing. Enjoying the recognition of rank, of her own kindred she is proud ; and if she is not gentle, she is never genteel, though in her flush of pride at the royal licence to wear her Maltese honours, she can stoop to bid Heralds' College invent the ' arms of Lyons.' ^ Lyon's arms, forsooth ! Had her blacksmith father but known of this, surely he would have thrown up his own brawny arms in astonishment. Compassionate and sensitive, to such as thwart or suspect her she can be coarse and obdurate. Natural and out- spoken to a fault, she is unscrupulous wherever her con- nection with Nelson is concerned, in double-speaking and double-dealing. Piquing flirtation, to Nelson she abides steadfast as a rock. When least virtuous, she never loses a sense of and reverence for virtue. A tender, if unwise, mother, her moods drive her into outbursts with the child she adores. Big schemes of expenditure always allure her ; to little economies she attends, and she will squander by mismanagement in the mass what her management saves in detail. Constantly ailing, she is always energetic, but though never idle, she is often indolent. Passionate and even stormy, she battles hard with a temperament which repeatedly masters her. She is at once home- loving and pleasure-loving, careful and careless, sensible and silly, kind and cruel, modest and unblushing, calm and petulant, natural and artificial ; and through all these phases runs the thread of individuality, of self-consciousness, of independence, of insurgent and infectious courage and enthusiasm. The letters speak for themselves. Little Miss Matcham, at ' Pappa's ' request, indited a prim little note to her dearest Lady Hamilton.'- Miss Anne Bolton, often at loggerheads 1 Within a few months, on Nelson's last return: — 'those of "Lyons" with the Cross of Malta in chief,' etc. Morrison MS. 832, August 31, 1805. •^ Morrison MS. 751. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 415 with her morbid sister Eliza, wrote to her at Ramsgate, where she was recruiting her health with Charlotte and Mrs. William Nelson : — * I would have thanked you sooner for the few affectionate lines you sent me by Bowen, tho' indeed the life we lead is so uniformly quiet, that tho' we are perfectly happy and comfortable, it is very unfavourable to letter writing. . . . It gives me much pleasure to find that Miss Connor ^ is not to come into Norfolk, till you go. I should not know what to do without her. She is so companionable to me, who, you know, would have none without her, for Eliza, when most agreeable, I consider as nothing, and my father is very much in town. She is so good, she seems quite contented with the very retired life we lead. We have got our instrument, which, with books and work, form our whole amusment. Sometimes, by way of variety, we have the old woman - come down, who behaves extremely well and is become quite attached to Miss Connor. Sometimes we sing to her till the poor thing sheds tears, and we are obliged to leave off. I am glad I have got over the horror I once felt in her presence, because it is in my power, the short time I am here, to contribute a little to her comfort. We have beautiful walks in this neighbourhood, which Miss Connor and I enjoy, and you, dearest Lady Hamilton, are often the subject of our conversation. I live in the pleasing hope of seeing you once more, before we begin our journey, which will not be till the 22nd of August. But possibly, as you are so well and happy, you may prolong your stay at Ramsgate. I was delighted at the account Bowen gave me of you. I made him talk for an hour about you, and, indeed, to do him justice, he seemed as fond of the subject as myself And thank you for the darling pin-cushion, which is treasured up, and only taken out occasionally to be kissed. A few nights ago I had an alarming attack of the same complaint which was very near killing me a year and a half ago.^ I fainted away and terrified them all. ' Sarah, the nicest of the Connors, and soon to be Horalia's instructress also. This letter is interesting as showing how much she had already fastened the regard of Nelson's kindred. - Her hostess at Slanmore, where she was slaying ; an invalid whose hrain was affected. ^ Heart-spasms, prevalent in all Nelson's family. 4i6 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Eliza declares she began to consider what she could do without me. Thank God, and my father's skill, I am again well. Pray write to me ; if it is but such a little scrap as I have hitherto had from you, I shall be content. How often we long to have a peep at you. . . . Miss Connor and Eliza desire their best love to you, as would daddy, were he at home. God bless you, most dear Lady Hamilton. . . .'^ Eliza Bolton, who at Merton had learned music from Emma and Mrs. Billington, also reports her own progress.- Nor, meanwhile, in Clarges Street, did Emma neglect the interests of the Boltons. For Tom, she solicited Nelson's cautious and official friend George Rose, already busied over her own suit with the new Ministry : — ' It will make Nelson happy,' she tells him ; * I hope you will call on me when you come to town, and I promise you not to bore you with my own claims, for if those that have power will not do me justice, I must be quiet. And in revenge to them, I can say, if ever I am a Minister's wife again with the power I had then, why, I will again do the same for my country as I did before. And I did more than any Ambassador ever did, though their pockets were filled with secret service money, and poor Sir William and myself never got even a pat on the back. But indeed the cold-hearted ^ Grenville was in then.'* She adds that Pitt would do her justice if he could hear her story : she calls him ' the Nelson of Ministers.' When Emma proposed spending the ist of August with the Nelsons at Canterbury, Nelson, during a fresh scare of French invasion, evinced playful anxiety at her neighbour- hood to the French coast.^ But the ist of August was always her fete. She begged her constant and learned ally, Dr. Fisher, to join their ' turtle and venison.' ' I wish,' she concludes, 'you would give heed unto us, and hear us, and let our prayers prevail.'^ Doubtless the long, thin beakers and pink champagne of our ancestors were brought out at Canterbury to celebrate the anniversary of the Nile, 1 Morrison MS. 772. "^ Ibid. 840. ^ Nelson's own expression for him. * Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 239. ^ Morrison MS. 768. ^ Letter of July 25, 1804, in Mr. Sabin's possession. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 417 while 'Reverend Doctor' bowed his best, and Emma raised the glass with a tirade in honour of the distant hero. It was not the French fleet that interrupted this festivity: a worse epidemic than invasion was abroad — that of small- pox. Poor little Horatia caught the disease, though lightly, and Emma was in great distress. Nelson's anxiety was as keen : — ' My beloved,' he wrote, ' how I feel for your situa- tion and that of our dear Horatia, our dear child. Un- exampled love never, I trust, to be diminished, never : no, even death with all his terrors would be jubilant compared even to the thought. I wish I had all the small-pox for her, but I know the fever is a natural consequence. Give Mrs. Gibson a guinea for me, and I will repay you. Dear wife, good, adorable friend, how I love you, and what would I not give to be with you at this moment, for I am for ever all yours.' ^ Relieved by better accounts, he sighed for long years of undivided union — 'the thought of such bliss delights me' — 'we shall not want with prudence.' ^ Horatia could at last be 'fixed' at Merton, to his in- tense delight. Hitherto she had oscillated between Nurse Gibson's care^ and Lady Hamilton's. Nelson now de- spatched to Emma a strange announcement, evidently designed as a circular note of explanation for the enlighten- ment of over-curious acquaintances.* It bears date Victory, August 13, 1804: — 'I am now going to state a thing to you, and to request your kind assistance, which, from my dear Emma's goodness of heart, I am sure of her acquiescence in. Before we left Italy, I told you of the extraordinary circumstance of a child being left to my care and protection. On your first coming to England, I presented you the child, dear Horatia. You became, to my comfort, attached to it, so did Sir William, thinking her the finest child he had ever seen. She is become of that age when it is necessary to remove her from a mere nurse, and to think of educating her. Horatia is by ^ Morrison MS. 77S. - Sentences omitted by Pettigrew in his citation of the letter of Aufjust 27, 1804. The entire original has been kindly communicated by Mrs. Hampden. •' Some of her receipts remain in the Morrison MS. * Its account tallies with Il.irriscm (vol. ii. p. 461), informed by I.ady H. 2 D 4i8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON no means destitute of a fortune. My earnest wish is that you would take her to Merton, and if Miss Connor will become her tutoress under your eye, I shall be made happy. I will allow Miss Connor any salary you may think proper. I know Charlotte loves the child, and therefore at Merton she will imbibe nothing but virtue, goodness, and elegance of manners, with a good education to fit her to move in that sphere of life which she is destined to move in.'^ Not long afterwards he added that his dearest wish was that Horatio Nelson when he grew up, ' if he behaves,' should wed Horatia, and thus establish his posterity on Emma's foundation as well as his brother's, and this wish he embodied in one of his numerous wills. In these mysteries of melodrama it is impossible not to discern Emma's handiwork. As a girl she had devoured romances and been thrilled by the strokes and stratagems of the theatre. The same leaning that had prompted the secret passage episode at Naples, prompted this also ; and from her Nelson caught the pleasures of mystification. Nor can impartiality acquit her of planting some of her relatives on Nelson's bounty. Sarah Connor's salary is one instance ; Charles Connor's naval cadetship is another. At this very time the youth, who was to end in madness, was discoursing to ' her Ladyship ' of Nelson's ' unbounded kindness.' It is true that the unworthier members of this family, especially Charles and Cecilia, took advantage of Emma to the close, and that she had to sup- port all of them, including their parents ; but it is also true that Nelson's charities temporarily lightened her burdens. Nelson was now nearing the end of his Mediterranean vigil. The King and Queen of Naples despaired at his departure. Acton, in disgrace, had thoughts of taking his new wife to England. Nelson had tarried long enough in the scenes of his memories. ' Nothing, indeed,' he tells his ' dearest Emma,' ' can be more miserable and unhappy than her poor Nelson.' From February 19, 1805, he had been ' beating ' from Malta to off Palma, where he was now anchored. He could not help himself; none in the fleet ^ Morrison MS. 779. Another original of this document is with Mrs. Hampden. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 419 could ' feel ' what he did ; and, ' to mend his fate,' since the close of November all his letters had gone astray, and he was without even the solace of news.^ And yet his energy was never more indispensable than at this moment. The French strained every nerve to meet the renewed vigour which characterised Pitt's brief and final accession to power. Directing their fleet to the West Indies, they hoped to strike Britain where she was most vulnerable, her colonies. Eight months' strenuous activity dejected but could not subjugate Nelson. ' I never did,' he assured Davison, 'or ever shall desert the service of my country, but what can I do more than swim till I drop? If I take some little care of myself, I may yet live fit for some good service.' He was dying to catch Villeneuve. Irri- tated at the command of Sir John Orde, destitute of ' any prize-money worthy of the name,' he could still waft his thoughts and wishes beyond the waves. It was not only each movement at Merton that he followed ; he cared for poor blind ' Mrs. Nelson,' - while he sat beside the sick-bed of many a man in his own fleet. Nor did his vigilance concerning each veriest trifle that might profit his country ever diminish. Scott's descendants still cherish the two black - leathered and pocketed armchairs, ensconced in which, night by night. Nelson and his secretary'^ waded through the polyglot correspondence, and those ' inter- minable papers ' which engrossed him. * His own quick- ness,' writes one of the latter's grandsons, 'in detecting the drift of an author was perfectly marvellous. Two or three pages of a pamphlet were generally sufficient to put him in complete possession of the writer's object, and nothing was too trivial for the attention of this great man's mind when there existed a possibility of its being the means of obtaining information.' Nelson insisted on examining every document seized in prize-ships, and so tiring proved the process that ' these chairs, with an ottoman that fits between them, formed, when lashed together, a couch on which the hero often slept those brief slumbers for which he ' Ne!soti /). 430 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON over again. Her heart, she told Rose, was broken. 'Life to me now is not worth having. I lived but for him. His glory I gloried in ; it was my pride that he should go forth ; and this fatal and last time he went, I persuaded him to it. But I cannot go on. My heart and head are gone. Only, believe me, what you write to me shall ever be attended to.' Letters purporting to be Nelson's regarding his last wishes had leaked out in the newspapers. She was too weak to ' war with vile editors.' ' Could you know me, you would not think I had such bad policy as to publish anything at this moment. My mind is not a common one, and having lived as confidante and friend with such men as Sir William Hamilton and dearest, glorious Nelson, I feel superior to vain, tattling woman.' ^ She was desolate. She had lost not only the husband of her heart and the mainstay of her weakness, but herself — the heroine of a hero. She was ' the same Emma' no longer, only a creature of the past. The receptive Muse had now no source of inspiration left, nor any commanding part to prompt or act. Yet her old leaven was still indomitable. She would fight and struggle for herself and her child so long as she had breath. Messages of sympathy poured in from every quarter, but she would not be comforted. Among others, Hayley, writing with the new year, and before the funeral, entreated her to make ' affectionate justice to departed excellence a source of the purest delight.' He rejoiced in the idea that his verses had ever been ' a source of good ' to her, and the egotist enclosed some new ones of consolation. She told him she was most unhappy ' No,' she ' must not be so,' added the sententious ' Hermit ' ; ' self-conquest is the summit of all heroism.' - While Rose and Louis importuned her for mementoes — and Emma parted with all they asked — the Abbe Campbell, writing amid the third overthrow at Naples, was more delicate and sympathetic. His ' heart was full of anguish ' and commiseration. ' I truly pity you from my soul, and only wish to be near you, to participate with you in the agonies of your heart, and mix our tears together.' Goldsmid sent philosophic consolation, and tried ' Cf. her leltci' to George Rose of November 29, 1805 — Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 241. ■" Pettigrevv, vol. ii. pp. 556-7. PENELOPE AND ULYSSES 431 to get her an allotment in the new loan.^ Staunch Lady Betty Foster and Lady Percival were also among her con- solers, and so too was the humbler Mrs, Lind. The Duke of Clarence — Nelson's Duke — inquired after her particularly." And later Mrs. Bolton wrote : — ' For a moment I wished myself with you, and but a moment, for I cannot think of Merton without a broken heart, even now can scarcely see for tears. How I do fed for you my own heart can tell ; but I beg pardon for mentioning the subject, nor would it have been, but that I well know your thoughts are always so. My dear Horatia, give my kindest love to her. The more I think, the dearer she is to me.' ^ At length the Victory arrived at Spithead.* Hardy travelled post-haste with his dearest friend's notebooks and last codicil to Rose at Cuffnells. Blackwood assured Emma that he would deliver none of them to any person until he had seen her ; all her wishes should be consulted.'' Scott wrote daily to her all December, as he kept watch over the precious remains of the man whom he worshipped. He took lodgings at Greenwich," where they now reposed. Rooted to the spot, throughout his solitary vigil he was ever inquiring after Emma, whom Tyson alone had seen. From the Board Room of Greenwich HospitaF the body was deposited in the Painted Chamber.^ It was the saddest Christmas that England had known for centuries. The very beggars, Scott wrote to Emma, leave their stands, neglect the passing crowd, and pay tribute to his memory by a look. * Many' did he see, 'tattered and on crutches, shaking their heads with plain signs of sorrow.' The Earl had been there with young Horace, who shed tears: — 'Every thought and word I have is about your dear Nelson. Here lies Bayard, but Bayard victorious. ... So help me God, I think he was a true knight and worthy the age of chivalry. ' ' His time was to die, and if not by a shot, you might have lost him by sick- ness.'— Morrison MS. 872. 2 Cf. Morrison MS. 862 (Scott's letter). Mrs. Lind lived at Brompton, and Emma dined there rather than with her grand friends. For Lady E. Bentinck's sympathy, cf. Pettigrcw, ii. p. 545. ^ Morrison MS. 881. This tends to show that she knew who Horatia really was. * December 6, 1805. '■' Cf. Pettigrew, ii. p. 549 ; Morrison MS. 854. ' 21 Park Row. " December 23, 1805. ® December 24. 432 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON One may say, lui nieme fait le Steele — for where shall we see another ? ' Yes, Emma should come herself and paj her last farewell alone. Scott could not tear himself away ; he was rowed in the same barge that bore the hero's Orient- made coffin to the Admiralty. He watched by it there, and thence attended it to St, Paul's. He bitterly resented being parted from it by his place, next day, in the procession. ' I honour your feelings,' exclaimed he, who always loved her, 'and I respect you, dear Lady Hamilton, for ever.' ^ Who can forget the scenes of that dismal triumph of January the loth.? Not a shop open ; not a window untenanted by silent grief. The long array of rank and dignity wends its funeral march with solemn pace. But near the catafalque draped with emblems and fronted with the Victory's figurehead, are ranged the weather-beaten sailors who would have died to save him. Fashion and officialdom, as distasteful to Nelson living as he was to them, press to figure in the pomp which cele- brated the man at whom they sometimes jeered, and whom they often thwarted and sought to supersede. Professed and unfeigned sorrow meet in his obsequies. Every order of the State is represented. Yet as the deep-toned anthem — half-marred at first — swells through the hushed cathedral, two forms are missing — that of the woman - whom certainly he would never have forsworn had her wifehood ever meant real affection,^ and that of the other woman who beyond measure had loved and lost him. Can one doubt but that, when all was over, when form and ceremony were dispersed, Emma stood there, silent, their child's hand clasped in hers, and shed her bitter tears beside his wreaths of laurel, into his half-closed grave? ^ Morrison MS. 855-861. ' Barham announced to her on November 5 her 'illustrious Partner's death. ' — Eg. MS. 28,333, f. 6. By their own request the Nelson family were buried in the enclosure. Countess Nelson rests there ; so does Nelson's nephew Horatio. It may here be noted that the marble covering over Nelson's coffin was presented by the Prince Regent. It forms one of the remains of the un- finished Italian splendours which Henry viil. designed for his own burial-chapel. It was to have been Cardinal Wolsey's sarcophagus. ^ Mrs. Bolton writes to Emma of her at Cheltenham in June 1806: 'Dis- putes even the last words of the man she once prciended to love.' — Morrison MS. S82. CHAPTER XV THE IMPORTUNATE WIDOW IN LIQUIDATION Februarys 1806 — July 18 14 While the nation was to vote i^ 120,000 ^ to support the earl- dom of the clergyman whose brother died only a Viscount and Vice-Admiral, in receipt of an annual grant not exceed- ing ;^2000; while Lady Nelson, soon to wrangle over the will,^ received her own annuity from Parliament, not only were Emma's claims disregarded, but the payment of Nelson's bequest to her was deferred and grudgingly made. She retired for a space to Richmond, and at once begged Sir R. Barclay to be one of a committee for arranging her affairs and disposing of Merton.^ Not until the November of this year did she address Earl Nelson, urging him in the strongest terms, as his brother's executor, to legalise Nelson's last codicil ; and nearly a year after he had received the pocket- book containing it from Hardy, he returned her a civil and friendly answer.* Her finances were now more straitened than has been supposed. Her income from all sources (including Horatia's i^200 a year) has been estimated as now some ;i^2ioo. This estimate counts Hamilton's and Nelson's annuities, of ;^8oo^ and ;^SOO respectively, as if they were paid free of property-tax, her Piccadilly furniture as realised and invested intact at five per cent., together ' ;^200,ooo in all to the family, in May 1806. On April 30 Grenville re- quested Earl Nelson to confer with him about the ' royal de„.res for subsidising the Nelson family."— Add. MS. 34,992, f. 132. " Cf. (besides the authorities cited on p. 340) Morrison MS. 882, where Mrs. Bolton tells Lady H., 'The Viscountess is going to law. What a vin- dictive woman,' etc. ■' Cf. Appendix, Part 11. C. (4). •• Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 55 and 56 ; ' Merton, November 14, 1806, and Canter- bury, November 16, 1806.' Emma evidently suspected his intentions already. She says, ' Whose executor you have the honour to be.' Writing to Rose about the same time she says, ' The Earl you know, but a man must have great courage to accept the honour of calling himself by that name.' Cf. Rose's Diaries, and Appendix, Part 11. C. (i) (/') and (2). '•' Cf. attte, p. 400. 2 E 434 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON with Nelson's ^2000 legacy, and Merton as rentable at ;^500 a year. The tax alone, however, seems to have been some ten per cent., the furniture should surely be reckoned at half-price, Merton was unlet, and with difficulty sold at last, while large inroads had been made by debt and inter- rupted Merton improvements. Her available capital must have been small. Her net income may be taken as under some £1200, apart from Nelson's annuity payable half- yearly in advance. Had this been so paid regularly from the first, another ;^450, after deducting property-tax, would have been hers. But I have discovered that Earl Nelson, on the excuse that the money he actually re- ceived from the Bronte estate up to 1806 was for arrears of rent accrued due before Nelson's death, never apparently allowed her a penny until 1808,^ and then, after consult- ing counsel, haggled over the payment in advance directed by the codicil, and in fact never paid her annuity m advance until 1 8 14. The receipt for the first payment in advance still exists, and is set out in the Appendix. This surely puts a somewhat different complexion on her 'extravagance,' since a year's delay in the receipt of income by one alread}' encumbered would prove a deadweight. Imprudent and improvident she continued ; embarrassed by anticipated ex- pectations, eager, indeed, to compound with creditors she became much sooner than has hitherto been imagined.^ She remained absolutely faithful to Horatia's trust up to the miserable end.^ Within three years from Nelson's death Emma and Horatia were to become wanderers from house to house: treasure after treasure was afterwards to be parted with or distrained upon ; and the Earl, who had flattered and courted Emma in her heyday, and still protested his willing- ' It should be clearly understood with regard to the statement that Earl Nelson received 'nothing' from the Bronte rental till 1808, that nothing ' for his own use' is meant, being the terms of the recital in the legal document (App. p. 489) to which express reference is made above. It is this recital which goes, I think, to show that, till 1808, Lady Hamilton probably received nothing also. And in any case she would manifestly get nothing till 1807, since she was never paid in advance^ and nothing at all came from Bronte till September 1806. '^ Already in May 1805, during Nelson's absence, she had applied to Tyson for a loan of ;i^i50, as ' what money ' she had in 'her banker's hands' had ' been laid out at Merton.' Cf. Appendix, Part II. C. (15). ■■' Nicolas vii., p. 395. Cited by Jeaffreson. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 435 ness to serve her, and his hopes that Government would yield her 'a comfortable pension,'^ had joined the fair-weather acquaintances who left her and her daughter in the ditch. On her income, even apart from her variable annuity and the furniture proceeds, she might have been com- fortable, if she had been content to retire at once into decent obscurity. She could not bring herself to forfeit the flat- teries of worthless pensioners and cringing tradesmen ; and, moreover, I cannot help suspecting that Nurse Gibson may not have rested satisfied with the occasional extra guineas bestowed on her, and that whether by her or by servants who had guessed the secret of Horatia's birth, continual hush-money may possibly have been extorted.^ From December 6, 1805, when he received his brother's ' pocket-book ' or ' memorandum-book ' (in the letters it is named both ways) from Hardy, the new Earl held in his hands the ' codicil ' on which hung Emma's fate and Horatia's. A few of Earl Nelson's manuscript letters ^ cast a little light on its adventures, and, so far as they go, assist Emma's account of his attitude, though I think that she miscon- strued or exaggerated its motives. From December 6 to December 12 it seems to have been kept in his own possession. He then took it to Lady Hamilton's friend. Sir William Scott, at Somerset House, where she was led by him to believe that its formal registra- tion with Nelson's will was in favourable process. Before Pitt's death in the ensuing January it was determined that the memorandum-book should be sent to the Premier.* Pitt died at an unfortunate moment, and Grenville became Prime Minister. After consultation with Scott and others, the Earl, however, resolved in February to hand it over to Lord Grenville, and in Grenville's keeping it actually re- mained till so late as May 30, 1806. If even, as is possible,^ 1 Cf. Add. MS. 34,992, f. 197, Earl Nelson to Davison ; ' Portman Square, Monday morning, February i, 1813.' " For this conjecture cf. Nelson's words in a letter of February 6, iSoi, where ' if the secret were well kept ' he suggests ' a small pension." Morrison MS. 509. ■> Add. MS. 34,992. Cf. especially f. 148. ■• Cf. Earl Nelson's own account, once in Pettigrew's possession, and cited iiy him in vol. ii. p. 626, note i. ^' The codicil is said to have been lodged for registration in February by Emma herself. In the ' pocket-book' or ' letter-book,' she inscribed her claim to having been instrumental in getting the fleet watered in the summer of 1798. 436 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the 'pocket-book ' and the ' memorandum-book ' mean two separate things, and what Grenville retained was only the latter, referring to the 'codicil' in the first, still the undue delay was no less shabby; and Nelson's sisters agreed with Emma, whose warm adherents they remained, in so entitling it.^ Grenville was the last person in the world to act favour- ably towards Emma, but of course it was for him to decide from what particular source, if any, Government could satisfy Nelson's petition. Up to February 23, 1806, the iLarl's letters were more than friendly, and even many years afterwards they professed goodwill and inclination to forward her claims for a pension, but in the interval a quarrel ensued. Emma subsequently declared that, after so long with- holding the pocket-book, the Earl, as her own guest at her own table, tossed it back to her ' with a coarse expression.' She then registered the codicil herself. She added that the reason lor its detention was that the Earl desired nothing to be do le until he was positive of the national grant to him and hn family. For such meanness I can see no sufficient reason. To put his motives at the lowest, self-interest would tempt him to forward Emma's claims to some kind of Government pension. But I do think that his course was ruled solely by a wish for his own safe self-advantage. He did not choose to risk offending Lord Grenville. Earl Nelson certainly never erred on the side of gener- osity. Despite his assiduous court of Emma during Nelson's lifetime, and his present amicable professions, he himself, as executor, sent ferreting for papers at that Merton where he had so often found a home, and whose hospitality his wife and children still continued gratefully to enjoy;" though he was probably angered when the shrewd Mrs. Cadogan proved his match there and worsted him.^ With reluctance, 1 They comment on his general shabbiness, .ind to the last the Matchams were constant. 2 They remained devoted to Emma. Morrison MS. 918. ' Cf. Morrison MS. 865: 'I will not show them one bill or receipt. ... I had a very canting letter from Haslewood yesterday, saying the Earl was coming down to-day,' etc. Mrs. Cadogan to Lady Hamilton, February 13, 1806; and cf. 871. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 437 and ' with a bleeding heart,' he conceded Emma's ' right ' to the ' precious possession ' of the hero's coat, as the document concerning its surrender, in his wife's handwriting, still attests.^ In the future, only two years after declaring, ' No one can wish her better than I do,' ^ he was to begrudge one halfpenny of the expenses after her death. Only a few months before it, his behaviour caused her to exclaim in a letter which has only this year seen the light, and which is one of the most piteous yet least complaining that she ever wrote, ' He has never given the dear Horatia a frock or a sixpence.'^ He squabbled and haggled over Clarke and Macarthur's Life of his brother.* And long after Emma lay mouldering in a nameless grave, he declined to subscribe for the book of an old acquaintance, on the stingy pretext that books now he never bought. If Emma rasped him by overbearing de- fiance (and she never set herself to conciliation), it would excuse but not justify him, since Horatia's prospects were as much concerned as Emma's in the fulfilment of the last request of the departed brother, to whom he and his owed absolutely everything. The worst was yet far distant. But harassing vexations already began to cluster round the unhappy woman, who was denied her demands by ministers alleging long lapse of time,^ and the inapplicability of the Secret Service Fund, as impediments, though Rose and Canning afterwards acknowledged them to be just.^ Pitt's death with the dawn- ing year rebuffed anew, as we have seen, the main hope of this unfortunate and importunate widow. Hidden briars • Add. MS. 34,992, f. 103. He insisted, too, on retaining his stall at Canter- bury, though Scott had counted on it. ^ Ihid. f. 197. 3 Cf. App., Part II. C. (10) (a). The letter is to Sir W'illiam Scott from Lady Hamilton at ' The Common of St. Peter's, two miles from Calais,' and hears date September 12, 1814. 'Think what I must fee!,' she ejaculates, 'who was used to give, God only knows [how much], and now to ask. Earl and Countess Nelson lived with me seven years. I educated Lady Charlotte, and paid at Eton for Trafalgar. I made Lord Nelson write the letter to Lord Sidmoulh for the Preb'.ndary of Canterbury, which his Lordship kindly gave him. They have never given the dear Horatia a frock or a sixpence.' Cf. fosl, p. 46S. * Add. MS. 34,992, f. 105 (i sr,/. ■' Cf. Rose's letter, July 3, 1S06, Morrison MS. 886. He says this is 'the real cause.' ' Cf. Rose's Diaries. 438 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON beset her path also. Her once obsequious creditors already clamoured, and were only staved off temporarily by the delusive promises of Nelson's will. For a time one at least of the Connors^ caused her secret and serious uneasiness by ingratitude and slander ; while the whole of this extravagant family preyed on and 'almost ruined ' her. But, worse than all, the insinuations of her enemies began at length to find a loud and unchecked outlet. ' How hard it is,' she wrote of her detractors, during a visit to Nelson's relations, in a letter of September 7, 1806, to her firm ally the departed hero's friend and chaplain, 'how cruel their treatment to me and to Lord Nelson! That angel's last wishes all neglected, not to speak of the fraud that was acted to keep back the codicil. ... It seems that those that truly loved him are to be victims to hatred, jealousy, and spite. . . . We have, and had, what they that persecute us never had, his unbounded love and esteem, his confidence and affection. ... If I had any influence over him, I used it for the good of my country. ... I have got all his letters, and near eight hundred of the Queen of Naples' letters, to show what I did for my King and Country, and prettily I am rewarded.' For glory she had lived, for glory she had been ready to die. In seeking to rob her of glory by refusing to ^ Ann, who, with the touch of madness peculiar to the whole family, and at this time dangerous in Charles, associated herself now with Emma 'Carew,' whose pseudonym she took, as Lady Hamilton's daughter. ' How shocked and surprised I was, my dear friend,' writes Mrs. Bolton, from whom Emma hid nothing, not even Horatia's parentage. ' Poor, wretched girl, what will become of her ? What could possess her to circulate such things ? But I do not agree with you in thinking that she ought to have been told before, nor do I think anything more ought to have been said than to set her right. ... I am sure I would say and do everything to please and nothing to fret.' — Morrison MS. 896, Friday, October 11, 1806. In her 'will' of 1808 Emma records: — 'I declare before God, and as I hope to see Nelson in heaven, that Ann Connor, who goes by the name of Carew and tells many falsehoods, that she is my daughter, but from what motive I know not, I declare that she is the eldest daughter of my mother's sister, Sarah Connor, and that I have the mother and six children to keep, all of them except two having turned out bad. I therefore beg of my mother to be kind to the two good ones, Sarah and Cecilia. This family having by their extravagance almost ruined me, I have nothing to leave them, and I pray to God to turn Ann Connor alias Carew's heart. I forgive her, but as there is a madness in the Connor family, I hope it is only the effect of this disorder that may have induced this bad young woman to have persecuted me by her slander and falsehood.' — Morrison MS. 959. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 439 acknowledge her services, and by traducing her motives, her foes had wounded her where she was most susceptible. Pained to the quick, yet as poignantly pricked to defiance, she uplifted her voice and spirit above and against theirs : — ' Psha ! I am above them, I despise them ; for, thank God, I feel that having lived with honour and glory, glory they cannot take from me, I despise them ; my soul is above them, and I can yet make some of them tremble by showing how he despised them, for in his letters to me he thought aloud.' The parasites were already on the wing. ' Look,' she resumed, 'at Alexander Davison, courting the man he despised, and neglecting now those whose feet he used to lick. Dirty, vile groveler [«V].'^ She meets con- tumely with contumely. But her warm and uninterrupted intercourse with Nelson's sisters and their families proved throughout a ray of real sunshine. She stayed with them — especially the Boltons — incessantly, and they with her at Merton. The Countess Nelson herself, even after her husband's unfriendliness, was her constant visitor. Horatia was by this time adopted ' cousin ' to all the Bolton and Matcham youngsters. Nothing could be further from the truth, as revealed in the Morrison Autographs, than the picture of Emma, so often given, as now a broken 'adventuress.'- She led the life at home of a respected lady, befriended by Lady Elizabeth Foster and Lady Percival. In London, Lady Abercorn begged her to come and meet the persecuted Princess of Wales. But her heart stayed with Nelson's kinsfolk, with Horatia's relations. She stifled her sorrow for a while with the young people, who still found Merton a home, as Mrs. Bolton tenderly acknowledged, Char- lotte Nelson was still an inmate, and Anne and Eliza Bolton were repeatedly under its hospitable roof Emma's godchild and namesake. Lady Bolton's daughter, was devoted to Mrs. Cadogan — they all ' loved ' her, she called ' From a letter to Mr. A. J. Scull, kimlly and privately comiminicatcd. Cf. App., Part II. C. (3) (/'). I now find that this letter has been published (1842) in Scott's LiJ(. Scott, loo, had his own grievances. - One should not, however, omit a jjlimpse given of Bohemian revel by Scott's Life. Royalty, too, stayed at Merton. 440 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON her ' grandmama.' The Cranwich^ girls reported to 'dear- est Lady Hamilton ' all their tittle-tattle, the country balls, their musical progress, the matches, the prosperous poultry, their dishes and gardens. They awaited her Sunday letters — their ' chief pleasure ' — with impatience. They never forgot either her birthday or Mrs. Cadogan's. When in a passing fit of retrenchment she meditated migra- tion to one of her several future lodgings in Bond Street,'^ who so afraid for her inconvenience as her dear Mrs. Bolton? When the ministry, after Pitt's demise, brought Canning to the fore, who again so glad that George Rose was his friend and hers, so convinced that the ' new people who shoot up ' as petitioners were the real obstacles to her success? And so in a sense it proved, for one of the ministry's excuses may well have been that a noble family had been ten years on their hands. Mrs. Bolton still hoped — even in 1808 — that the 'good wishes of one who is gone to heaven will disappoint the wicked.' Mrs. Matcham, too, who ' recalled the many happy days we have spent together,' was always soliciting a visit : ' It will give us great pleasure to f^te you, the best in our power.' She longed — in 1808 again — to pass her time with her, though it might be a ' selfish wish.' But Emma preferred the Bolton household. She and Horatia went there immedi- ately after the ' codicil ' annoyances, and twice more earlier in that same year alone. Emma, they repeated, 'was be- loved by all.' And her affection extended to their friends at Brancaster^ and elsewhere. Sir William Bolton re- mained in his naval command, and Lady Hamilton kept her popularity with the navy.* Anne and Eliza Bolton, to- gether with their mother, hung on her lightest words, and followed her singing-parties at 'Old Q.'s,' in 1807, with more than musical interest. Eliza, indeed, one regrets to recount, confided a dream to Emma, a dream of ' Old Q.'s ' death ' Cranswick ; but their own spelling is retained. ^ No. 136, April 1807. This migration did not take place definitely till 1809, but already in 1807 she is to be found there, having possibly let the house in Clarges Street. ' Mrs. PeirsoK. In the striking letter to Mr. A. J. Scott of September 1S06, above cited, she had been staying with one of Nelson's aunts. * This very year Duckworth assured her of his ' real regard.' IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 441 and a thumping legacy, 'There is d. feeling iox you at this heart of mine,' wrote Anne Bolton, just before the crash, 'that will not be conquered, and I believe will accompany me wherever I may go, and last while I have life.'^ Surely in Emma must have resided something magnetic so to draw the hearts of the young towards her — even when, as now she seemed to neglect them. Those who judge, or mis- judge her, might have modified their censoriousness had they experienced the winning charm of her friendship. But all this while, and under the surface, Emma con- tinued miserable, ill, and worried. Her importunities with the Government were doomed to failure ; her monetary position, aggravated by reckless generosity towards her poverty-stricken kinsfolk, grew more precarious ; but her pride seems not to have let her breathe a syllable of these embarrassments to the Boltons or the Matchams. Eor a while she removed to 136 Bond Street- as a London pied-a-terre. One of her letters of this period survives, addressed to Captain Rose, her befriender's son. Horatia insisted on guiding Emma's hand, and both mother and daughter signed the letter. ' Continue to love us,' she says, 'and if you would make Merton your home, when- ever you land on shore you will make us very happy.' ^ To Merton, so long as she could, she and her fatherless daughter still clung. To carry out Nelson's wishes with regard to Horatia's education was her main care, but her ideas of education began and ended with accomplishments. Horatia's pre- cocities both delighted and angered her. Of real mental discipline she had no knowledge, and her stormy temper found its match in her child's. Her restless energy, bereft of its old vents, found refuge in hiring Harrison to write his flimsy life of the hero ; in trying to dispose of the beloved home, which she became hourly less able to maintain ; in coping with her enemies; in dictating letters to Clarke, another of the throng of dependants with ' Morrison MS. 950. For the foregoing cf. ib. passim (to 1809), S66-986, (to 1811), 991-1029; for 'grandmama,' 900. For Ladies I'ercival and iJ. Foster, 862, 910, and cf. post, p. 455, w. 7. -' She afterwards lived also at No. 150. ^ Letter in possession of Mr. Robson. It is misdated ' 1813.' 442 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON whom she liked to surround herself; in hoping that Hayley would celebrate her in his Life of Romney. An unpublished letter from her to him of June 1806 — a portion of which has been already cited — depicts her as she was. She is ' very low-spirited and very far from well' She was 'very happy at Naples, but all seems gone like a dream.' She is * plagued by lawyers, ill-used by the Government, and dis- tracted by that variety and perplexity of subjects which press upon her,' without any one left to steer her course. She passes ' as much of her time at dear Merton as pos- sible,' and ' always feels particularly low ' when she leaves it. She tries hard to gain ' a mastery over herself,' but at present her own unhappiness is as invincible as her gratitude to her old friend who so often influenced her for good. She is distraught, misinterpreted, the sport of chance and apathy. ' L'ignorance en courant fait sa roide homicide, L'indiffi^rence observe et le hasard decide.' Two years later again, when misfortunes were thickening around her, she thus addressed Heaviside, her kind surgeon : — ' . . . Altho' that life to myself may no longer be happy, yet my dear mother and Horatia will bless you, for if I can make the old age of my good mother comfortable, and educate Horatia, as the great and glorious Nelson in his dying moments begged me to do, I shall feel yet proud and de- lighted that I am doing my duty and fulfilling the desires and wishes of one I so greatly honoured.' ^ And in the same strain she wrote in that same year to Greville, who had then relented towards her. She strove, she assured him, to fulfil all that ' glorious Nelson ' thought that she ' would do if he fell' — her 'daily duties to his memory."^ Of 'virtuous' Nelson she writes perpetually. On him as per- petually she muses. For till she had met him she had never known the meaning of true self-sacrifice. In his strength her weak soul was still absorbed. Remembrance was now her guiding star ; but it trembled above her over troubled waters, leading to a dismal haven. Nor, in her ' Unpublished letter from Sotheby's catalogue, autumn 1904. The letter is in Mr. Sabin's possession. Cf. App., Part 11. C. (5). - Lady Hamilton to Greville, in a new letter undated, but, from internal evidence, certainly written during November 1808. Cf. App., Part 11. C. {5) {b). The earliest amateur skeich ok Emma Lvon, Lauv Hamilton. By Miss Thomas (daughter ok her first employer) AT IIawakden. 4 IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 443 own sadness, was she ever unmindful of the misery and wants of others. Before the year 1808, which was to drive her from ' dear, dear Merton,' had opened, she received one more letter which cheered her. Mrs. Thomas, the widow of her old Hawarden employer, the mother of the daughter who first sketched her beauty, and whom Emma always remembered with gratitude, wrote to condole with her on the misconduct of some of the Connors. She alluded also to that old rela- tion, Mr. Kidd, mentioned at the beginning of our story, who from being above had fallen beyond work, but who still battened on the bounty of his straitened benefactress : — ' . . . I am truly sorry that you have so much trouble with your relations, and the ungrateful return your care and generosity meets with, is indeed enough to turn your heart against them. However, ungrateful as they are, your own generous heart cannot see them in want, and it is a pity that your great generosity towards them shou'd be so ill- placed. I don't doubt that you receive a satisfaction in doing for them, which will reward you here and hereafter. I sent for Mr. Kidd upon the receipt of your letter. I be- lieve he has been much distressed for some time back, . , . As he observes, he was not brought up for work.'^ In her opinion, the less pocket-money he gets, the better; it 'will onely ^ be spent in the ale-house.' The Reynoldses, too, had been living upon Emma, and another relation, Mr. Nichol, Kidd's connection, expected ten shillings a week. Emma had provided Richard Reynolds with clothes, and a Mr. Humphries with lodging. They all imagined her in clover, and she would not undeceive them. When her ' extrava- gance ' is brought up against her, these deeds of hidden and ill-requited generosity should be remembered. She was more extravagant for others than for herself She even besought the Queen of Naples to confer a pension on Mrs. Grafer, though she besought in vain.^ And all the time ' Morrison MS. 930. ' Mari Thomas,' Hawarden, to Lady Hamilton, Hawarden, Novemher 27, 1807. - L.idy H. also spells this word thus. I think that the Thomases taught her spelling. •' Cf. Api)., I'att II. C (5) (A). In a letter of the following year Mrs. Grafer bitterly complained to Lady Hamilton that Maria Carolina, despite her con- tinued and atTcctionatc correspondence, refused to aid her. 444 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON she continued her unceasing' presents to Nelson's relations, and to poor blind ' Mrs. Maurice Nelson.'^ But these were the flickers of a wasting candle. By April 1808 Merton was up for sale.-^ The Boltons had not the slightest inkling of her disasters.^ They missed the regu- larity of her letters; they had heard that she was unwell, and fretting herself, but they were quite unaware of the cause. Indeed, Anne Bolton was herself now at Merton with Horatia, under the care of Mrs, Cadogan,* who was soon ill herself under the worries so bravely withheld. Maria Carolina, still in affectionate correspondence with her friend, was, however, unable or unwilling to aid her since she had written the reluctant plea on her behalf to the English ministers four years previously. Indeed, it may be guessed that one of the reasons alleged for disregarding the supplication of Nelson, was that its discussion might com- promise the Neapolitan Queen. This, then, was the end of the royal gratitude so long and lavishly professed. When Emma in this year besought her, not for herself, but for Mrs. Grafer (then on the eve of return to Palermo), she told Greville that she had adjured her to redeem her pledge of a pension to their friend ' by the love she bears, or once bore, to Emma,' as well as ' by the sacred memory of Nelson.' If the Queen was at this time in such straits as precluded her from a pecuniary grant once promised to the dependant, she might still have exerted herself for her dearest friend. But 'Out of sight, out of mind.' In despair, while Rose returned to his barren task of doing little elaborately, Emma betook herself to Lord St. Vincent. If her importunities could effect nothing with the gods above, she would entreat one of them below. Perhaps Nelson's old ally could melt the obdurate ministers into some regard for Nelson's latest prayers ; perhaps through him she might ' Emma evidently urged her to claim her over-due allowance frcnii the Earl. Morrison MS. 935. - It was valued by ' Willock, Golden Square,' at ^12,930. Morrison MS. 938, April 4, 180S. ^ So late as September Mrs. Bolton congratulates her on the ' improvements so much to her liking.' — Morrison MS. 953. Morrison MS. 939. Anne was recalled to Cranwich by her mother's own illness. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 445 draw a drop, if only of bitterness, with her Danaid bucket from that dreary official well. She conjures him by the ' tender recollection ' of his love for Nelson to help the hope reawakened in her 'after so many years of anxiety and cruel disappointment,' that some heed may be paid to the dying wishes of 'our im- mortal and incomparable hero,' for the reward of those ' public services of importance ' which it was her ' pride as well as duty to perform,' She will not harrow him by detailing 'the various vicissitudes' of her 'hapless' fortunes since the fatal day when ' Nelson bequeathed herself and his infant daughter, expressly left under her guardianship, to the munificent protection of our Sovereign and the nation.' She will not arouse his resentment ' by reciting the many petty artifices, mean machinations, and basely deceptive tenders of friendship' which hitherto have thwarted her. She reminds him that he knows what she did, because to her and her husband's endeavours she had been indebted for his friendship. The widow of Lock, the Palermo Consul, had an immediate pension assigned of ;^8c)0 a year, while Mr. Fox's natural daughter, Miss Willoughby, obtained one of ;^300. Might not the widow of the King's foster-brother, an Ambassador so distinguished, hope for some recognition of what she had really done, and what Nelson had counted on being conceded ? ^ At the same time both she and Rose besought Lord Abercorn, who interested himself warmly in her favour. In Rose's letter occurs an important passage, to the effect that Nelson on his last return home had, through him, for- warded to Pitt a solemn assurance that it was through Emma's 'exclusive interposition that he had obtained provisions and water for the English ships at Syracuse, in the summer of 1798, by which he was enabled to return to Egypt in quest of the enemy's fleet'; and also that Pitt himself, while staying with him at Cuffnells, had ' listened favourably ' to his representations.^ Rose had previously assured Lady Hamilton that he was coyivinced of the ' Morrison MS. 949. - Rose's DiarieSy letter of April 9, iSob. Pitt, however, he says, made no ' engagement.' 446 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON ' justice of her pretensions,' to which she ' was entitled both on principle and policy.' ^ And not long afterwards, when, as we shall shortly see, kind friends came privately to her succour, she forwarded another long memorial to Rose, in whose Diaries it is comprised, clearly detailing both services and misadventures. 'This want of success,' she repeats, and with truth, 'has been more unfortunate for me, as I have incurred very heavy expenses in completing what Lord Nelson had left unfinished at Merton, and I have found it impossible to sell the place.' She might have added that Nelson entreated her not to spend one penny of income on the contracts ; he never doubted that this cost at least the nation would defray. ' From these circumstances,' she resumes, ' I have been reduced to a situation the most painful and distressing that can be conceived, and should have been actually confined in prison, if a few friends from attachment to the memory of Lord Nelson had not inter- fered to prevent it, under whose kind protection alone I am enabled to exist. My case is plain and simple. I rendered a service of the utmost importance to my country, attested in the clearest and most undeniable manner possible, and I have received no reward, although justice was claimed for me by the hero who lost his life in the performance of his duty. ... If I had bargained for a reward beforehand, there can be no doubt but that it would have been given to me, and liberally. I hoped then not to want it. I do now stand in the utmost need of it, and surely it will not be refused to me. ... I anxiously implore that my claims may not be rejected without consideration, and that my forbearance to urge them earlier may not be objected to me, because in the lifetime of Sir William Hamilton I should not have thought of even mentioning them, nor indeed after his death, if I had been left in a less comparatively destitute state.' Yet the latter was the excuse continuously urged by suc- cessive Governments. Both Rose and Canning, more than once, admitted the justice of her claims, and even Grenville seems by implication not to have denied it.- Rose always 1 Rose's Diaries, leUer of December 9, 1805. " He would have considered her claims had they been pressed at the time IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 447 avowed his promise to Nelson at his ' last parting from him ' to do his best, and he did it. But he well knew that the real obstacle lay not in doubt, or in lapse of time, or in the quibble of how and from what fund it would be possible to satisfy her claims, but solely in the royal dis- inclination to favour one whom the King's foster-brother had married against his will, and whose early antecedents, and later connection with Nelson, alike scandalised him.^ The objections raised were always technical and parliamentary, and never touched the substantial point of justice at all, as may be seen in the short note just appended — a note which might have been considerably enlarged had every instance been adduced. The sum named — £6000 or £yooo — would have been a bagatelle in view of the party jobbing then universally prevalent ; and no attentive and impartial peruser of the whole correspondence from 1803- 181 3 ^^^i fail to grasp that each successive minister — one generously, another grudgingly — admitted her claims even while he refused them. It was not their justice, but justice itself that was denied, and the importunate widow was left pleading before the unjust judge who had more advan- tageous claimants to content. Pitt's death, in January 1806, was undoubtedly a great blow to Emma's hopes. During his last illness she must often have watched that (Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 628). lie would not give a ' clear opinion.' Canning, writing to Rose in 1809 of Greville's letter — worded 'with the coldest caution' — says it 'left it open to' Greville 'to say that though her services deserved reward, yet the Foreign Secret Service Fund was not the proper fund out of which that reward should come.' In this Canning agreed, hut added, 'I do think that a pension might well be bestowed.' He repeats, in 1S13, that he thought her 'richly entitled.' He feared 'inconvenient' questions from the Opposition if recourse were had to that fund. Cf. Rose's Diaries, vol. i. jip. 260 and seq. and passim. ' Cf. inter alia, Lady H.'s own assertion in a letter of March 4, 1813, to George Rose (contained in his Diaries), the original of which was sold in July 1905 at Sotheby's ; and tlie inferences from a passage in Rose's letter of July 3, 1806, where he speaks of the chance of proposing to the A'ing a small pension for the child (Morrison MS. 948, July 21, 1S08), where Rose again assures Kmma of Canning's goodwill, but hints ' »>/5wrwo«>/A;/'/f difficulties' ; and there is another letter where Lady H. says that a kind friend has explained to her the reason ; another, again, to her declaring the royal disfavour to be the cause, and another of 1804 from Hugh Elliot to Nelson alleging that her claims would have a better chance under another ' reign,' Morrison MS. 763. 44'"^ EMMA, LADY HAMILTON white house at Putney with the keenest anxiety. So early as the beginning of 1805, Lord Melville, whom Nelson had asked to bestir himself on Emma's behalf during his absence, told Davison that he had spoken to Pitt personally about 'the propriety of a pension of ^^500' for her. Melville himself spoke ' very handsomely ' both of her and her ' ser- vices.'^ Pitt, if he had survived more than a year and had been quit of Lord Grenville, might have risked the royal disfavour, as in weightier concerns he never shrank from doing. The luckless Emma sank between the two stools of social propriety and official convenience, while the hope against hope, that no disillusionment could extinguish, con- stantly made her the victim of her anticipations. For a moment a purchaser willing to give ;^i 3,000 for Merton had been almost secured. But debts and fears hung round her neck like millstones. They interrupted her correspondence and sapped her health, now in serious danger. By June 1808 she told her surgeon, Heaviside, that she was so ' low and comfortless ' that nothing did her good. Her heart was so ' oppressed ' that ' God only knows' when that will mend, — 'perhaps only in heaven.' He had 'saved' her life. He was 'like unto her a father, a good brother.' In vain she supplicated ' Old Q.' to purchase Merton and she would live on what remained:- he had named her in his will, and that sufficed. With her staunch servant Nanny, and her faithful ' old Dame Francis,' who attended her to the end, she and Horatia retired to Rich- mond, where for a space the Duke allowed her to occupy Heron Court, though this too was later on to be exchanged for a small house in the Bridge Road. She herself drew up a will, bequeathing what still was hers to her mother for her life, and afterwards to ' Nelson's daughter,' with many en- dearments, and expressing the perhaps impudent request that possibly she might be permitted to rest near Nelson in St. Paul's, but otherwise she desired to rest near her ' dear mother.' She begged Rose to act as her executor, and she called on him, the Duke, the Prince, and ' any administra- ^ Morrison MS. 804, Davison to Lady Hamilton, January 6, 1805. - Ibid. 951. She hoped ' ;if 15,000 would do for everything.' ;^i8,ooo, how- ever, were required. Her one wish was ' to be free and at liberty,' IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 449 tion that has hearts and feelings,' to support and cherish Horatia.^ All proved unavailing, and she resigned herself to the inevitable liquidation. After a visit to the Boltons in October, she returned to arrange her affairs in November. A committee of warm friends had taken them in hand. Many of them had powerful city connections. Sir John Perring was chairman of a meeting convened in his house at the close of November. His chief associates were Gold- smid, Davison, Barclay, and Lavie, a solicitor of the highest standing, and there were five other gentlemen of repute. A full statement had been drawn up. Her assets amounted to ^,"17,500, 'taken at a very low rate,' and independent of her annuities under the two wills and her 'claim on the Government,' which they still put to the credit side. Her private debts, of which a great part were on account of the Merton improvements,'' amounted to j^Sooo, but there were also exorbitant demands on the part of money-lenders, who had made advances on the terms of receiving 'annuities.' To satisfy these, i^io,ooo were required. Everything possible was managed. All her assets, in- cluding the prosecution of those hopeless claims, were vested in the committee as trustees, and they were realised to advantage. Goldsmid himself purchased Merton." £2,700 were meanwhile subscribed in advance to pay off her private indebtedness. At this juncture Greville reappears unexpectedly upon the scene. In her sore distress he thawed towards one ' Morrison MS. 959, October 16, 1808. '' This is likely from the fact that, including the annuities, which were un- acknowledged, and exorbitant obligations on advances, which amounted to ;^lo,ooo, she herself had declared that if the Duke bought Merton for ;^i 5,000, she would be clear. Her current debts, therefore, were ^^5000, and most of this must have referred to the extensive alterations at Merton. Afterwards, however, ;f^3000 more of her private debts made their appearance. These were paid oft by immediate subscription. ^ Lysons's Ettvtrons of Lomion, Supplement (iSii), p. 46, and Morrison MS. 965, Mrs. Bolton to Lady H., April 23, 1S09 : ' I am glad to hear a Goldsmid has purchased Merton rather than any stranger. You, I hope, will feel more easy now it is gone. Perhaps you and I may one day have a melan- choly pleasure in tracing former limes in these walks.' 2 F 450 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON whom his iciest reserve and most pettifogging avarice had never chilled. He had evidently asked her to call, though he never seems to have offered assistance. She answered, in a letter far more concerning her friend Mrs. Grafer's affairs than her own, that an interview with her ' trustees ' must, alas! prevent her: — 'I will call soon to see you, and inform you of my present prospect of Happiness at a moment of Desperation ' ; you who, she adds, ' I thought neglected me, Goldsmid and my city friends came forward, and tliey have rescued me from Destruction, Destruction brought on by Earl Nelsons having thrown on me the Bills for finishing Merton, by his having secreted the Codicil of Dying Nelson, who attested in his dying moments that I had well served my country. All these things and papers ... I have laid before my Trustees. They are paying my debts. I live in retirement, and the City are going to bring forward my claims. . . . Nothing, no power on earth shall make me deviate from my present system''^ she concludes, using the very word which Greville used concerning his methods with womankind in the first letter which she ever received from him. Goldsmid had been an ' angel ' ; friends were so kind that she scarcely missed her carriage and horses. Emma had every reason to be grateful. She was clear of debt. She could still retain the valuables that were out of Merton. With Horatia's settlement, she could count on about £(^oo a year when the ' annuities ' had been dis- charged. Somehow they never were, and they again figure largely during her last debacle. The mysteries of her entanglements baffle discovery ; so does her sanguine im- providence which, to the end, alternated with deep depres- sion. In a few years she and Horatia, like Hagar and Ishmael, were to go forth into the wilderness ; but even then she was still buoyed up with this mirage of an oasis in her tantalising desert. Relieved for the moment, she resumed the tenor of her way at Richmond. She frequented concerts, and some- times dances,^ in the fashionable set of the Duke and the 1 Cf. App., Part II. C. (5) {b). ^ E.g. Lady Rushe's, Morrison MS. 963, February 14, 1809. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 451 Abercorns. In June 1809 Lord Northwick begged her to come to the Harrow speeches,^ and afterwards meet a few 'old Neapolitan friends' and her life-long friend the Duke of Sussex at 'a fete in his house.' The fame of Horatia's accomplishments added the zest of curiosity. All were eager to meet the 'interesting eleve whom Lady Hamilton has brought up ' with every grace and every charm. The Duke of Sussex looked forward to the encounter with pleasure ; Emma had not yet lost her empire over the hearts of men. Of this invitation Emma took advantage to do a thoughtful kindness for an unhappy bride who had just married the composer Francesco Bianchi. A fort- night later she was still trying to heal the breach between them." The Bohemians, therefore, were always with her. She continued to receive the Italian singers as well as their patrons; she still saw Mrs. Denis and Mrs. Billington, whose brutal husband, Filisan, was now threatening her from Paris ; while Mrs. Grafer," on the very eve of return to Italy, continued to beset her with importunities. Nor did her old friends, naval, musical, and literary, spare the largeness of her hospitality or the narrowness of her purse. But, in addition to these diversions, she still overtasked herself with Horatia's education — so much so, that Mrs. Bolton wrote beseeching her to desist* Sarah Connor had now transferred her services to the Nelson family, and Emma eventually took the musical but far less literate Cecilia for Horatia's governess.^ ' Old Q.,' her patron, now in the last year of his self- indulgent life, was busy making a new will every week.^ His friendship for Emma, however, had been truly dis- interested, and even calumny never coupled their names together. When he died next year, he left her an annuity 1 Some six years before, she and Nelson had attended the Eton 4th of June festivities to see the young Horatio. - Cf. Morrison M.S. 971, 973. ^ In August iSogshe writes to Emma, ' I am on my last leggs.' — Ibid. 979. * Morrison MS. 965, April 23, 1809. She refers to expense as much as to effort. '■> Meanwhile she eng.aged a Mile. Roulanch. The Holtcn girls hoped that Sarah would stay with them at the end of May 1S09. — Ibid. 967, 968. " Ibid. gOy, May. 452 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON of ;^500, which, however — such was her persistent ill luck — she never lived to receive, for the old voluptuary's will was contested, it would seem, till after Lady Hamilton had paid the debt of nature. Even if she had survived the litigation, it would probably have absorbed a portion of the bequest. The autumn of 1809 saw, too, the end of Greville. Since his mean and heartless treatment of her after Hamilton's death, Emma, save for the glimpse of reconciliation afforded by the remarkable comm.unication of 1808 just quoted, had never so much as breathed his name in any of her surviving letters. The collector of stones had, till that moment of compunction, himself been petrified. In 1812 his crystals, for which he had so long ago exchanged Emma, together with the paintings which his cult of beauty at the expense of the beautiful had amassed, were sold at Christie's. * The object of this connoisseur,' writes M. Simond, an eye- witness of the auction, 'was to exhibit the progress of the art from its origin by a series of pictures of successive ages — many of them very bad.' ^ And perhaps the faultiest of his pictures had been himself From 1 8 10, when they left Richmond, onwards, Emma and Horatia owned no fixed abode. They moved from Bond Street to Albemarle Street,-^ thence for a few months to Piccadilly once more,^ thence to Dover Street,* thence to two separate lodgings at the two ends again of Bond Street, where Nelson for a brief space after Sir William's death had also lodged. Lady Bolton, with her daughter, the godchild Emma, who had failed to find her at the opening of the year, expressed their keen disappointment: 'You cannot think how melancholy I felt when we passed the gate at the top of Piccadilly, thinking how often we had passed it together. . . . Emma sends her best love and kisses to you, and Horatia, and Mrs, Cadogan. When I told her just now how if we had gone two houses further we should have seen you, she looked very grave. At last she called out: "Pray, Mama, promise me to call as we go back to Cranwich." . . . My love to Mrs. Cadogan, Miss Connor, ^ Simond's /otirnal 0/ a Tour and Residence, etc. (1817), vol. i. p. 114. 2 No. 36. " Cf. Morrison MS. 998. '' November 16.— Idid. 1018. I IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 453 and my dear Horatia. . . . God bless you, my dear Lady Hamilton.'^ But the worst blow was yet to fall. By the opening of the new year her mother lay on her deathbed. Her old admirer, Sir H. Fetherstonehaugh — and nothing is more curious in this extraordinary woman's life than the way in which the light lover of her first girlhood re-emerges after thirty years as a respectful friend — began a series of sympathising letters. He was much concerned for her health, and ill as she was, she forgot her own ailments in the terrible trial of her mother's malady. * As I am alive to all nervous sensations,' he wrote, ' be assured I under- stand your language.' — ' I trust you will soon be relieved from all that load of anxiety you have had so much of lately, and which no one so little deserves.' - Mrs. Cadogan died on the same day as the date of this letter, and Emma with Horatia now drifted forlorn and alone in a pitiless world. Emma's mother had endeared herself to all the Nelson and Hamilton circle, as well as to her own humble kindred. ' Dear Blessed Saint,' wrote Mrs. Bolton to Lady Hamilton, ' was she not a mother to us all ! How I wish I was near you ! ' ^ She was buried in that Paddington churchyard which she and Emma had known so well in the old days at Edgware Row.* Emma was paralysed by the blow. More than a year afterwards she wrote that she could feel 'no pleasure but that of thinking and speaking of her.' In sending to Mrs. Girdlestone — whose family still possesses so many relics of Nelson — the box which the Duke of Sussex had presented to Mrs. Cadogan in Naples, the bereaved daughter concluded a touching letter as follows : ' Accept then, my dear Friend, this box. You that are so fond a mother, and have such good children, will be pleased to take it as a token of my regard, for I have lost the best of mothers, my wounded heart, my comfort, all buried with her.''' ' Endeavour,' wrote Mrs. Bolton, ' to keep up your spirits: after a storm comes a calm, and God knows you have ^ Morrison MS. 987, January 3, iSio. - Ibid. 989, January 14, iSio. ' Ibid. 991, January 27, 1810. ^ Cf. Annual Register, 1810. * Cf. App., Part 11. C. (6) (a). 454 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON had storm enough, and surely the sun must shine some- times.'^ The sun was never to shine again. This very year two more staunch friends made their exit, the old Duke and Abraham Goldsmid, who, in despair at the failure of the recent Government loan, died by his own hand at Morden, while his associate. Baring, also committed suicide. It was a year of tumult. The din and riot of Burdett's election endangered the streets; abroad it was the year of Napoleon's second marriage, of the great battle of Wagram preluding the Russian campaign. Maria Carolina was an exile once more. Austria and the allies were worsted and rabid. Whichever way Emma's distraught mind turned, despair and misery were her outlook, and Nelson seemed to have died in vain. The sum raised for her relief had been soon exhausted. In removing to Bond Street she intended really to retrench, but everything was swallowed up by the crowd of parasites who consumed her substance behind her back.- Her land- lady, Mrs. Daumier, pressed for payment. And yet Lady Hamilton's own requirements seem to have been modest enough. 2 It was Mrs. Bianchi, Mrs. Billington, Clarke, her secretary, who seems to have filched her papers from her afterwards, and the battening Neapolitans that rendered economy impossible and swarmed around her to the close. Nor would old dependants of Nelson believe that she was impoverished. One, ' William Nelson,' continued to importune her from Bethnal Green ; Mr. Twiss, Mrs. Siddons's nephew, urged her influence for his solicitations to gain a 'commissionership of Bankruptcy '^ — an ominous 1 Morrison MS. 993, February 12, 1810. - Cf. Sarah Connor's letter of September 10, 1810, Morrison MS. 1000 : ' Mrs. Francis and her husband came yesterday from Merton to fetch the parrots. You must excuse my freedom in the remark I am about to make, namely, in your being obliged to pay for the board when all will be away, excepting only servants, when I sett off. That has fretted me staying in town, as I thought it made you pay the same as when all was at home, but find that my absence nor [sic] yours makes any difference. ' And cf. lOOl (from the same), ' What do you mean to do about coals ? ' etc. ^ ' This,' wrote Sarah Connor, alluding to the circumstances, 'alters the plan of cheapness greatly, for there never has been extravagant dinners, but good plain joints for you.' ■* Morrison MS. 1013, January 20, 1811. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 455 word for Emma.^ The Kidds, Reynoldscs, and Charles Connor still lived on, the girl Connors zuith her. Their conduct ill contrasted with that of the once ' poor little Emma'; for the unacknowledged Emma ' Carew,' after disdaining dependence on her prosperity, was now, in adversity, bidding her a last and loving farewell.^ Sir William Bolton still entreated her good offices with the royal dukes for * poor Horace ' ; ^ so did Mrs. Matcham with Rose.* She could not even now refrain from maintaining appearances, and keeping open house. She could not bring herself to let those debonair royal dukes know that one whom they fancied all song and sunshine was on the brink of beggary. She could not hold the promise, repeated to her befrienders, of living in tranquillity and retirement. Nor would she desist from making presents.'^ She still visited fashionable resorts like Brighton.^ She still enjoyed the friendship of Lady Elizabeth Foster, by now the new Duchess of Devonshire.'' She still flattered herself, and listened to the flatteries of others. She still trusted to chance — to her elusive claims and her elusive legacy. The old Duke had left Sarah Connor a legacy also,^ but all his bequests were long postponed. While Mrs. Matcham was congratulating Emma on accessions of fortune, while elderly, complimentary, Frenchified Fetherstonehaugh re- joiced at the Queensberry ' mite out of such a mass of wealth,' forwarded her ' envoies de gibier' and promised her ' a view of old Up Park dans la belle saison,'^ the widow's cruse was wellnigh drained. Nor, after Greville's death, was his brother, as trustee, always regular in his payments of her forestalled revenue. With reason, as well as with excuses, Lord Mansfield warned her not to increase her expenditure till her ' affairs were settled.' ^° Sir Richard Puleston, inviting her from Wrexham to revisit the scenes ' Morrison MS. 99S, July 23, 1810. - Cf. Appendix, Part 1. Note C. * Morrison MS. 1034. "• /bid. 1035- 1037. ' Ibid. 1006, December 6, 1810. .Vl the close of this selfsame year Anne Hollon thanks her and 1 ioralia for a gown and a brooch. •* Morrison MS. 1025, which gives an amusing letter from her old Neapolitan acquaintance Coxe. ^ Cf. Kctlicrstoneliaughs allusion, ibid. 1030, December iSll. " Morrison MS. lOio. " /bid. toog. '" /bid. 1014. 456 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON of her childhood, could still gloat over her '■fairy palace in Bond Street' ^ In extreme need, she revived her desperate petitions to the new Government. Her fashionable friends called her ' a national blessing,' and cried shame on the deniers of her suit.2 But Mrs. Bolton well said to her that she feared the friendly Rose was ' promising more than he could procure ' ; and amid these dubious hopes two tell-tale pieces of paper in the Morrison Collection speak volumes. They are bills drawn on Emma by a Neapolitan, Carlo Rovedino, for £\^o each.^ Even Cecilia Connor, with whom she had quarrelled but who owed her everything, dunned 'her Ladyship' for the salary due for such education as she had given ' dear Horatia.'^ This was the last straw. The Matchams and Boltons invited her yet again, but she did not come. She concerted fresh petitions with a fresh man of the pen.^ He hastened at Emma's bidding from his ' Woodbine Cottage ' at Wootton Bridge. He worked ' like a horse.' During his absence his wife was ill. Emma could not rest for thinking of her. She inquired of her from a common friend.*^ She wrote to her herself: 'You do not know how many obligations I have to Mr. Russell, and if I have success it will be all owing to his exertions for me. Would to God you were in town. What a consolation it would be to me,' All smiles to the world, full of wretched- ness within, she could not, as she wrote so many years ago, 'divest' herself 'of her natural feelings.' But her uniform love of excitement — of which these hazardous petitions were a form — peeps out at the close of this little note : ' It must be very dull, alltho' your charming family must be such a comfort to you.'^ 1 Morrison MS. 1027, September 25, 1811. ^ Puleston, among others ; Morrison MS. 1032. ^ Morrison MS. 1018, 1019 ; May 13 and 14, 181 1. He was a singer, and according to the authors of the Rev. Dr. Scott's Life, acted in 1807 as 'master of the ceremonies ' at a Merton party. ■* Ibid. 1024. ^ Mr. Russell, an acquaintance of the Perrys, who now lived in the Isle of Wight. ^ Morrison MS. 1033. "' Letter in Clarke's hand, and franked by Beckford, of December 28, 1812 ; in Mr. Sabin's possession. I IMPORTUNITY AND LTQUIDATION 457 The crash came suddenly with the opening of the new year, and just as Miss Matcham was begging her to repose herself with them at Ashfield Lodge. Horatia had whoop- ing-cough. Emma, who was never without a companion, had replaced Cecilia Connor by a Miss Wheatley. For the sixth time she had failed in moving the ministers, but her tenacity was inexpugnable. She owed it to her kind com- mittee, to Nelson's memory, to Horatia, to herself The creditors, however, at last perceived that the asset on which they had built their hopes had vanished. In vain she prayed for time ; the royal dukes would not see her draggled in the dust. Royal dukes, however, were not cash, thought the creditors, when they promptly arrested her for debt. It was the first time such a calamity had even entered her mind, but it was not to be the last, as we shall soon discover.^ She implored none of her grand friends. From the disgrace of prison she saved herself 111, with the ailing Horatia, she found a scant lodging at 12 Temple Place, within the rules of the King's Bench. To her old Merton friend, James Perry, afterwards pro- prietor of the Morning Chronicle, and through thick and thin her warm upholder, she addressed the following scrawl : — ' Will you have the goodness to see my old Dame Francis, as you was so good to say to me at once at any time for the present existing and unhappy circumstances you wou'd befriend me, and if you cou'd at your conveaneance call on me to aid me by your advice as before. My friends come to town to-morrow for the season, when I must see what can be done, so that I shall not remain here ; for I am so truly unhappy and wretched and have been ill ever since I had the pleasure of seeing you on dear Horatia's birthday,^ that I have not had either spi''its or energy to write to you. You that loved Sir William and Nelson, and feel that I have deserved from my country some tribute of remunera- tion, will aid by your counsel your ever affectionate and gratefull. . . .' ^ Pettigrew, and others following him, make no mention of more than one prrest. But Emma's own letter to Perry of April 22 in the next year (Morrison MS. 1054) leaves no doubt as to this point. She says she has been in Temple Place for nine months. - Always celebrated on Oclobcr 29, as it had been registered. 458 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON And to the Abbe Campbell, who had just left for Naples : — '. . . You was beloved and honour'd by my husband. Nelson, and myself; knew me in all my former splendours ; you I look on as a dear, dear friend and relation. You are going amongst friends who love you ; but rest assured none reveres you nor loves more than your ever, etc, P.S. — Poor Horatia was so broken-hearted at not seeing you. Tell dear Mr. Tegart^ to call on me, for I do indeed feil truly forlorn and friendless. God bless you. As glorious Nelson said, Amen, Amen, Amen.'^ Her stay in these purlieus was not long. Perry, and probably the Mertonite Alderman Smith, must have bailed her out. But during these few weeks of restricted liberty she slaved at new petitions, was visited by friends, and continued her correspondence with the Boltons and the Matchams, who begged hard for Horatia, whom they would meet at Reigate if Emma ' could not manage to come with her.'^ They forwarded her presents of potatoes and turkeys from the country, and their letters evidently treat her just as if she were at large. All he»- f^nergies were bent on the two final memorials so often 1 ,-ferred to in these pages — that to the Prince Regent, and that to the King. Rose now at last espoused her cause with real warmth, and Canning favoured her, despite his pique at her exaggerated account of what Nelson under- stood from their last interview. All, however, ended in smoke. Perceval, whom she had persuaded into benefiting one of Nelson's nephews, had been shot in the previous year, and Lord Liverpool trod in the footsteps of Lord Grenville. Whither she repaired on liberation is unknown, though by the summer of the year she managed to reinstate herself in Bond Street* There is no heading to the strange ^ A doctor who, with Dr. Watson, again tends her in 1814. Cf. Morrison MS. 1054. '■^ Cf. Morrison MS. 1042, January 3, 1813 ; 1043. 3 Cf. Morrison MS. 1044, January 25, and for the other fact Rose's Diaries, vol. i. pp. 265 and 266. ■* No. 150. This is manifest from the inventory and sale catalogues of the following July sold at Sotheby's on July 8, 1905. i IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 459 remonstrance which the distressed mother penned, in one of her fitful moods, to Horatia on 'Easter Sunday '^ of this year: — * Listen to a kind, good mother, who has ever been to you affectionate, truly kind, and who has neither spared pains nor expense to make you the most amiable and accomplished of your sex. Ah! Horatia, if you had grown up as I wished you, what a joy, what a comfort might you have been to me ! For I have been constant to you, and willingly pleas'd for every manifestation you shew'd to learn and profitt of my lessons. . . , Look into yourself well, cor- rect yourself of your errors, your caprices, your nonsensical follies. ... I have weathered many a storm for your sake, but these frequent blows have kill'd me. Listen then from a mother, who speaks from the dead. Reform your conduct, or you will be detested by all the world, and when you shall no longer have my fostering arm to sheild you, woe betide you, you will sink to nothing. Be good, be honou -able, tell not falsehoods, be not capricious.' She threatened to put her to school — a threat never executed. * I grieve and lament to see the increasing strength of your turbulent passions ; I weep, and pray you may not be totally lost ; my fervent prayers are offered up to God for you. I hope you may become yet sensible of your eternal welfare, I shall go join your father and my blessed mother, and may you on your deathbed have as little to reproach yourself as your once affectionate mother has, for I can glorify, and say I was a good child. Can Horatia Nelson say so ? I am unhappy to say you cannot. No answer to this ! I shall to-morrow look out for a school for your sake to save you, that you may bless the memory of an inju.'-ed mother. P.S. — Look on me as gone from this world.' Six months later she again blamed her for her 'cruel treatment.' It may well be that the poor young girl, bandied about with Emma's fortunes, and with her driven from pillar to post, complained of hard treatment. ' If my poor mother,' once more exclaimed Emma, who had, at any rate, been a most dutiful daughter, ' If my poor mother was living to take my part, broken as 1 am ' April iS, 1S13. Cf. Morrison MS. 1047. 46o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON with greif and ill-health, I should be happy to breathe my last in her arms. I thank you for what you have done to-day. You have helped me nearer to God, and may God forgive you.' In two days 'all will be arranged for her future establishment.' She will summon Colonel and Mrs. Clive, Colonel and Mrs. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Denis, Dr. Norton, Nanny the old servant, Mr. Slop, Mr. Sice, Annie Deane, all the gossips from Richmond, to 'tell the truth' if she ' has used her ill.' ' Every servant shall be on oath.' * The all-seeing eye of God ' knows ' her innocence.' ^ Of these two ebullitions, it is impossible not to discern in the first a fear lest her own errors should be repeated in her daughter. And it should not be forgotten that, through the connivance of Haslewood, Nelson's solicitor, Horatia to the last refused to believe that Lady Hamilton, whom she tenderly nursed and comforted at the close, was her real mother. Some such denials of Emma's motherhood may have caused these outbursts, proportioned in their violence to the intense and unceasing love that Emma fostered for Nelson's child, on her real relationship to whom she here — and here only within four walls — laid such vehement stress. She had been compelled to part with Horatia's christening- cup. Nelson's own gift, to a Bond Street silversmith." Sir Harris Nicolas declared that he had seen a statement in her handwriting to the effect that ' Horatia's mother ' was 'too great a lady to be mentioned.' It has been assumed that this ambiguous phrase pointed to the Queen of Naples, who so late as 1808 was in friendly correspondence with Emma. This, however, remains uncertain. Nelson's own action had constrained her to envelop their joint offspring in mystery, for Horatia's benefit as well as their own. It is just as probable that the words 'too great a lady' were used of herself, for the same words are used of her by Mrs. Bolton in 1809.^ Things went rapidly from bad to worse. The smaller fry of her creditors were emboldened by the complete ^ Morrison MS. 1051, October 31, 1813. 2 ]vjy_ Salter. ^ 'Were I a certain great lady,' eic. Morrison MS. 984. Since, however, this rumour was otherwise current, I cannot now absolve Emma from at least connivinji at this defamation. IMPORTUNITY AND LIQUIDATION 461 neglect of her last ' memorials ' into renewed action. At the instance of an exorbitant coach-builder,^ with a long bill in his hands, she was re-arrested, and in Horatia's company she found herself, towards the end of July 18 13, for the second time in the bare lodgings at Temple Place, All her remaining effects in Bond Street were sold. The articles offered were by no means luxurious, and included the remnants of Hamilton's library ; many of them were bought by the silversmith, whom she still owed, and by Alderman Smith, her most generous benefactor. The city remained her champion. She could still see her friends, Coxe and George Matcham among them,^ and she was permitted, such was her miserable health, to drive out on occasion. But the game, spiritedly contested to the last, was now up. Mrs. Bolton's death in the preceding August added one more to the many fatalities that thronged around her. The Matchams, themselves poor, were unwearying in their solicitude, and eventually a small windfall enabled them to contribute i,"ioo to her dire neces- sities. Alderman Smith came for the second time to the rescue, and once more stood her bail.^ But before even this alleviation was vouchsafed, and while she had been for three months confined to her bed, a crown- ing trouble beset her. Through the perfidy of some dependant* Nelson's most private letters to her had been abstracted some years before, and were now published to the world. This is the invaluable correspondence on which these pages have so frequently drawn. It was not their revelation of the ' Thomson ' letters that prejudiced her : her enemies were always willing to insinuate even that she had foisted Horatia on Nelson. It was the revelation of the Prince of Wales episode of 1801, that scandalised the big world, and destroyed the last shred of hope for any future 'memorials.' It was insinuated that she herself had pub- ' Much of his claim was said to be fictitious, and he was only the stalii/^— January 1815 Short and evil were the few days remaining. * What shall I do ; God, what shall I do ! ' had been her exclamation thirty-two years ago to Greville. As she began, so she closed. Mrs. Bolton's death in the late summer of 1813 left her more desolate than ever at Temple Place. The Matchams resumed their warm invitations ; alas ! she could not leave ; she was still an undischarged bankrupt. The Matchams themselves were breaking up the last of their many estab- lishments. They all wished to join Emma and Horatia, when possible, in some 'city, town, or village abroad.'^ This proposal doubtless suggested the idea of retiring to Calais when her present ordeal in the stale air of stuffy Alsatia should come to an end. But even in tribulation she had celebrated, as best she could, the 'glorious ist of August.' I have seen a letter inviting a few even then — not ' pinchbeck,' she calls them, 'but true gold' — round that little table in Temple Place, to drink for the last time to the hero's memory. The few surviving records unite in proving her genuine anxiety that through her no creditor should suffer. Though imprudence, as she confessed, had not a little contributed, her main disasters were due to a crowd of worthless on- hangers whom she had recklessly maintained. She herself had gone bail ' for a person ' whom she thought ' honour- able.' This 'person' was probably one Jewitt, a young friend of the Russells, in whom she had taken a warm 1 Morrison MS. 1053, April 18, 1814. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 465 interest. ' I should be better,' she had written to her ' kind, good, benevolent Mr. and Mrs. Russell,' ' if I could know that this unfortunate and. I think, not guilty young man was saved. He has been a dupe in the hands of villains. ... I have never seen him, for I could not have borne to have seen him and his amiable wife and children suffer as they must.'i She employs the same phrase — 'dupe of villains ' — about herself in a long epistle of this very date to Rose. All her property was surrendered ; with the exception of a few sacred relics, everything unseized had been sold, even Nelson's sword of honour.- Her just creditors lost not a penny. The sole extortioners she would not benefit were those annuitant Shylocks who had preyed upon her utmost need, and who had well secured themselves by insuring her life in the Pelican Insurance Company.^ James Perry and Alderman Smith exerted themselves to the utmost on her behalf A small further sum was col- lected for her in the city, and by the last week of June .4814 her full discharge was obtained from Lord Ellen- borough. She was now free — with less than fifty pounds in her pocket. But she soon gleaned the fact that these merciless 'annuitants' purposed her re-arrest. Without dishonour, she prepared for exodus to France.* It was a flight requiring management and secrecy to elude the new writs about to be issued : it was her last thrill. How different from that memorable flight to Palermo sixteen years earlier, which had earned the admiration of * Cf. extract from an undated letter (about 1813) in Sotheby's catalogue for May 17, 1905, given in the Appendix. The name is there misprinted ' Jematt,' for I have seen another letter to a Mrs. Jewitt which tallies with its allusions. ■' There was a dispute in more recent years about its authenticity. ^ For the preceding, inter alia, cf. Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 271 (July 4, 1814); Add. MS. 34,992, f. 199 (September 14, 1814); Morrison MS. 1054 (April 22, 1814), 1055 (September 21, 1814), 1066 (February 8, 1815). * ' Mr. Smith got me the discharge from Lord Ellenborough. I then begged Mr. Smith to withdraw his bail, for I wou'd have died in prison sooner than that good man should have suffered forme.' — Lady II. to George Rose ; Calais, |uly 4 ; Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 271. For the small sum with which she landed in France, cf. App., Part II. (10) (a). She went away with /"50, out of which she had to defray all the travelling expenses. 2 G 466 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Nelson, the gratitude of a court, and the praise of Britain ! About the last day of June she and Horatia, unattended, embarked at the Tower. The stormy passage thence to Calais took three days. Her single thought was for Horatia's future, but she still buoyed herself up by believing that an ungrateful ministry would at length provide for her daughter. Sir William Scott, she wrote, assured her that there were * some hopes ' for her * irresistible claims.' She fancied, moreover, that she had some disposing power over the accumulations of arrears on her income under her husband's will, so long withheld and intercepted by greedy annuitants. ' If I was to die,' she told Greville's brother and executor, imploring him at the same time for ;^ioo on account, ' I should have left that money away, for the annuitants have no right to have it, nor can they claim it, for I was most dreadfully imposed upon by my good nature. . . . When I came away, I came with honour, as Mr. Alderman Smith can inform you, but mine own in- nocence keeps me up, and I despise all false accusations and aspersions. I have given up everything to pay just debts, but [for] annuitants, never will.'^ She at first lodged at Dessein's famous hotel — the inn where Sterne (of whom Romney, his first portrayer, must have often told her) had started on his Sentimental Journey, by the confession over a bottle of Burgundy that there was ' mildness in the Bourbon blood ' ; and where the ' Englishman who did not travel to see Englishmen ' had inspected, in his host's company, the ramshackle desobli- geante which was to be the vehicle of his whimsies. Dessein's, however, was expensive ^ as v/ell as senti- mental. It was not long before she inhabited the smaller 'Quillac's'^ and looked out for a still humbler abode. Her ' Old Dame Francis ' was soon to join her as house- keeper. ' Morrison MS. 1055, Lady H. to Hon. R. F. Greville, September 21, 1814. - In the letter to Rose from ' Dessein's ' above cited, she speaks of the benefit to her health from ' change of climate, food, air, larger rooms, and liberty.' ^ Cf. Mrs. Ward's (Horatia) account of her mother's last days, in her two letters to Mr. Paget in Blackwood, May 1888. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 467 She thus describes their manner of life to George Rose : — ' . . . Near me is an EngHsh lady, who has resided here for twenty-five years, who has a day-school, but not for eating or sleeping. At eight in the morning I take Horatia, fetch her at one ; at three we dine ; she goes out till five, and then in the evening we walk. She learns everything — piano, harp, languages grammatically. She knows French and Italian well, but she will still improve. Not any girls, but those of the best families go there. Last evening we walked two miles to a fete champetre pour les bourgeois. Everybody is pleased with Horatia. The General and his good old wife are very good to us ; but our little world of happiness is ourselves. If, my dear Sir, Lord Sidmouth would do something for dear Horatia, so that I can be enabled to give her an education, and also for her dress, it would ease me, and make me very happy. Surely he owes this to Nelson. For God's sake, do try for me, for you do not know how limited I am. ... I have been the victim of artful, mercenary wretches.'^ Dis aliter visum ; it was not to be. Nothing but the pittance of Horatia's settlement remained. Rose bestirred himself, but Lord Sidmouth continued impervious to the importunate widow,- herself slowly recovering from the jaundice. When 'Dame Francis' arrived, they tenanted a farm- house two miles distant in the Commune of St. Pierre — ' Common of St. Peter's,' as Lady Hamilton writes it — and from this farmhouse, not long afterwards, they again re- moved to a neighbouring one. It belonged to two ladies who had lost a large sum by the refusal of their sons to join ' Cf. Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 272 ; and cf. Morrison MS. 1055. ' Horatia is improving in person and education every day. She speaks French like a French girl, Italian, German, English,' etc. — September 21. 2 On March 6, 1813, he had repulsed her ' Prince Regent' application 'after a full communication with Lord Liverpool.' It was 'very painfull' for him to do so; he regretted her 'embarrassments.' But, 'on comparing them with representations now before him of difticulty and distress in many other quarters, and upon view of the circumstances with which they are attended,' he found it 'impossible to administer the scanty nuans of relief and assistance^ etc. This model of officialism is transcribed in Ruse's Diaries : the original is in the writer's possession. 468 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Napoleon's invading army. Its rooms were large, its garden extensive. She could at length take exercise in a pony-cart. She and Horatia were regular in church attendance : the French prayers were like their own. Provisions were cheap: turkeys two shillings, partridges fivepence the brace; Bordeaux wine from five to fifteen pence.^ Occasionally a stray visitor passed their way. Lord Cathcart, Sir William's old friend and relative, had visited them, and spied out the nakedness of the land. It was well known at Calais that the celebrated Lady Hamilton was in retreat : a real live 'milord' must have fluttered the farmhouse dovecote. For a time there was a brief spell of cheerful tranquillity, but the gleam was transient. It was only a reprieve before the final summons. ' If my dear Horatia were provided for,' she wrote to Sir William Scott, ' I should dye happy, and if I could only now be enabled to make her more comfortable, and finish her education, ah God, how I would bless them that enabled me to do it ! ' She was teaching her German and Spanish ; music, French, Italian, and English she ' already knew.' Emma ' had seen enough of grandeur not to regret it'; 'comfort, and what would make Horatia and myself live like gentlewomen, would be all I wish, and to live to see her well settled in the world.' It was of no avail that her illness was leaving her. ' My Broken Heart does not leave me.' ' Without a pound in ' her 'pocket,' what could she do.? — 'On the 21st of October, fatal day, I shall have some. I wrote to Davison to ask the Earl to let me have my Bronte pension quarterly instead of half-yearly, and the Earl refused, saying that he was too poor. . . . Think, then, of the situation of Nelson's child, and Lady Hamilton, who so much contributed to the Battle of the Nile, paid often and often out of my own pocket at Naples . . . and also at Palermo for corn to save Malta. Indeed, I have been ill used. Lord Sidmouth is a good man, and Lord Liverpool is also an upright Minister. Pray, and if ever Sir William Hamilton's and Lord Nelson's services were deserving, ask them to aid me. Think what I must feel who was used to give God only knows [how ' Morrison MS. 1055 ; other information Irom a late letter. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 469 much], and now to ask ! ' ^ Such was the plight of one who had gladly lavished care and money on the son and daughter of Earl Nelson. That new-made Earl, who had canvassed her favour, and called her his 'best friend,' was now calmly leaving her to perish, and his great brother's daughter to share her carking penury and privation. Lawyers' letters molested even the seclusion of St. Pierre. The English papers published calumnies which she was forced to contradict."^ Their little fund was fast dwindling, and as late autumn set in they were forced to transfer their scanty effects to a meagre lodging in the town itself. In the Rue Frangaise — No. in — and even there in its worst apartments, looking due north, the distressed fugitives found themselves in the depth of a hard winter. They were not in absolute want,'' but, had their suspense been protracted, they must ere long have been so. At the beginning of December the ' annuitants' ' attorneys were in close correspondeiice with the Honourable Colonel Sir R. Fulke Greville. Proceedings, indeed, were being instigated in Chancery, which were only stopped by Lady Hamilton's ' Lady Hamilton to Sir William Scott— September 12, 1814. C'f. App., Part II. (10) (a). - Cf. her letter (September 14, 1814) from ' Village of St. Pierre, near Calais,' Add. MS. 34,992, f. 199, to the editor of the Moriiini; Herald. ' I was sur- prised to observe that the Morniti,!^ Herald, with other newspapers, had pub- lished that I fled from my bail. This is false. I had Lord Ellenborough's discharge, and Alderman Smith . . . never lost a shilling by me. I have left in England all I possessed to pay my creditors, retaining only sufficient for Horatia and myself to subsist upon at a farmhouse.' =* Cf. Mrs. Ward's letter to Mr. Paget in Blackivood, May 1888. The legend, repeated both by Pettigrew and Mr. Calton (in his Calais) from the supposed eye-witness of the benevolent Mrs. Hunter, then of Biighton, but formerly of the ' Grande Place,' Calais, is disproved. According to her, she learned from a * M. Rheims,' ' interpreter,' that Emma and her child were in need even of the scraps which the butcher gave to dogs. But though these are exrggeral ions, she and M. Rheims may have befriended the unfortunates. Mrs. Hunter's account of the funeral, however, is an ascertained myth. Among other doubtful traditions may be also mentioned the babble of the old gardener, Ward, who had been a lad at Merton when Nelson quilted it for the last lime, and who died some twenty-five years ago. He used to relate how Lady Hamilton asked Nelson, when they met him on one of their last walks together, to give him a shilling. Asked by an interviewer who brought a pretty lady with him, if Emma were as lovely as she is painted, the old man answered, with a sly side-glance at the young lady, ' I 've seen many as pretty as her.' 470 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON unexpected demise.^ An embargo was laid on every penny of Emma's income. Even Horatia's pittance was not paid in advance, till she herself begged for a trifle on account from her uncle, Earl Nelson. Under the strain of uncertainty, Emma, worried out of her wits, and drawn more closely than ever to the daughter who absorbed her fears, her sorrow, and her affection, at length collapsed. The strong and buoyant spirits, which had brought her through so many crises, including Horatia's own birth, and the coil of its consequences, failed any longer to support her. A dropsical complaint, complicated by a chill, fastened upon her chest. By New Year's Day 1 815, her state of pocket, as well as of health, had become critical. Some ten pounds, in English money, her wearing apparel, and a few pawn tickets for pledged pieces of plate,- were the sole means of subsistence until Horatia's next quarter's allowance should fall due. In 181 1 the Matchams had sent all they could spare ;^ they may have done so again. If the mother, denuded of all, asked for anything, it was for Horatia that she pleaded. At her debut, Greville had noticed that she would starve rather than beg : it proved so now. Only seven years ago she had implored the Duke not to let their 'enemies trample upon them.' Those enemies had trampled on them indeed. A new creditor was knocking at her door, the last creditor — Death. One can picture that deserted death-scene in the Calais garret, where the wan woman, round whom so much bril- liance had hovered, lay poverty-stricken and alone. Where now were the tribes of flatterers, of importuners for promo- tion, or even the crowd of true and genial hearts? Her still lingering beauty had formed an element of her age, but now only the primitive elements of ebbing life remained intact — the mother and her child. By her bedside stood a crucifix — for she had openly professed her faith.* Over her bed hung, doubtless, the small portraits of Nelson and of ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 1056, 1061, 1063, 1065, 1066. " Cf. Pettigrew's risunii of the Juge de Paix's inventory, vol. ii. p. 636. 3 Cf. Morrison MS. 1021. ■• Cf. Mr. Cadogan's list of funeral expenses, including ' priests' and 'candles,' Morrison MS. io,o6S. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 471 her mother — remnants from the wreck. Nelson was no longer loathed at Calais ; a Bourbon sat on the throne, and not even wounded pride angered the French against the man who had delivered the sister — now dead herself — of Marie Antoinette. Perhaps Emma is trying to dictate a last piteous entreaty to the hard-hearted Earl, and sad Horatia writing it at the bare table by the attic casement. Perhaps, while she gasps for breath, and calls to mind the child within her arms, she strives but fails to utter all the weight upon her heart. Horatia sobs, and kisses again, may be, and again that ' guardian ' whom now she loves and trusts with a daughter's heart. Sorrow unites them closely ; here ' they and sorrow sit.' Of her many tragic ' Attitudes ' (had Constance ever been one?) the tragedy of this last eclipses all. She, whose loveliness had dazzled Europe, whose voice and gestures had charmed all Italy, and had spellbound princes alike and peasants ; whose fame, whatever might be muttered, was destined to re-echo long after life's broken cadence had died upon the air ; she whose lightest word had been cherished — she n n lay dying here. Nelson, her mother, her child, these are still her company and comfort, as memories float before her fading eyes. Ah ! will she find the first again, and must she lose the last? A pang, a spasm, a cry. The priest is fetched in haste. She still has strength to be absolved, to receive extreme unction from a stranger's hands. Weeping Horatia and old ' Dame Francis' re-enter as, in that awful moment, shrived, let us hope, and reconciled, she clings, and rests in their embrace. It had been her wish to lie beside her mother in the Paddington church. This, too, was thwarted. On the next Friday she was buried. The hearse was followed by the many naval officers^ then at Calais to the cheerless cemetery, before many years converted into a timber-yard. ' Cf. Pettigrew's information from Mr. Rothery, Mr. Henry Cadogan's rela- tive, given in his note to vol. ii. p. 636. The Morrison MSS. confirm his surmise as to how the funeral expenses were defrayed. From them it also appears that her body, like Nelson's, was preserved in spirits. 472 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Had she died a Protestant — such was the revival of Catholicism with monarchy in France — intolerance would have refused a service : only a few months earlier, a blame- less and charming actress had been pitched at Paris into an unconsecrated grave. It was these circumstances that engendered the fables, soon circulated in England, of Emma's burial in a deal box covered by a tattered petticoat.^ Earl Nelson and the Mr. Henry Cadogan,^ who has been mentioned earlier, came over before the beginning of February — the former to bring Horatia back, the latter to pay, through Alderman Smith's large- heartedness,^ the last of the many debts owing on the score of Lady Hamilton. None of them were defrayed by the Earl, who had never given his niece so much as ' a frock or a sixpence.' It was soon known that the ' celebrated Emma ' had passed away. Polite letters were exchanged between Colonel Greville and the ' Prefect of the Department of Calais ' as to the actual facts, and Greville's executor was much relieved to feel that Emma's departure had spared him the bother of a long lawsuit.* Horatia owed nothing to her uncle Nelson's care : she stayed with the Matchams until her marriage, in 1822, to the Reverend Philip Ward of Tenterden. She became the mother of many children, and died, an octogenarian, in 1881. The research of these pages has tried to illumine Lady Hamilton's misdeeds as well as her good qualities, to in- terpret the problems and contrasts of a mixed character and a mixed career. It has tracked the many phases and vicissitudes both of circumstance and calibre that she underwent. We have seen her as a girl, friendless and forsaken, only to be rescued and trained by a selfish pedant, who collected her as he collected his indifferent pictures 1 Cf. not only Mr. Hunter's account repeated by Pettigrew and Calton, but Emma's obituary in the Gentleman'' s Magazine, where the instance of the actress is also chronicled. - He was possibly her mother's relative. I have since learned that he was then British Consul. If so, he did not 'come over.' For some details about him and Mr. Rothery cf. an article in the Standard iox October 21, 1905. ^ Cf. Morrison MS. 1064, Mr. Henry Cadogan's receipt from Alderman Joshua Jonathan Smith for the funeral expenses, amounting to £,2%, los. * Cf. Morrison MS. 1059-1061. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 473 and metallic minerals. We have seen her handed on to the amiable voluptuary whose torpor she bestirred, and for whose classical taste she embodied the beautiful ideal. We have seen her swaying a Queen, influencing statesmen and even a dynasty, exalted by marriage to a platform which enabled her to save, more than once, a situation critical alike for her country, for Naples, and for Europe. We have seen her rising not only to, but above, the occasions which her highest fortunes enabled. We have followed her conspicuous courage, from its germs in battling with mean disaster, to a development which attracted and enthralled the most valiant captain of his age. We have marked how her resource also enhanced even his resourcefulness. We have watched her swept into a vortex of passionate love for the hero who transcended her dramatic dreams, and sacrificing all, even her native truthfulness, for the real and unshaken love of their lives. We have shown that she cannot be held to have detained him from his public duty so long as history is unable to point to a single exploit unachieved. And eventually, we have found that the infinite expressive- ness which throughout rendered her a muse both to men of reverie and of action, rendered herself a blank, when the personalities she prompted were withdrawn and could no more inspire her as she had inspired them. We have viewed her marvellous rise, and we have traced her melan- choly decline, from the moment of the prelude to Horatia's birth to the years which involved its far-reaching and in- evi'jable sequels. We have found, despite all the resulting stains which soiled a frank and fervid but unschooled and unbridled nature, that she never lost a capacity for devo- tion, and even self-abandonment ; while her kindness and bounty remained as reckless and extravagant as the wilful- ness of her moods and the exuberance of her enthusiasm. We have found her headstrong successively, and resolute, bold and brazen, capricious and loyal, vain-glorious, but vainer far for the glory of those she loved ; strenuous yet inert, eminently domestic yet waywardly pleasure-loving ; serviceable yet alluring, at once Vesta and Hebe. We have tracked her, as catastrophe lowered, tenaciously beating the air, and ever sanguine that she could turn stones — even 474 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON the stones flung at her — to gold. We have tracked also the cruelty and shabbiness of those that were first and fore- most in throwing those stones, whose propriety was prudence, and whose virtue was self-interest. We have marked how long this woman of Samaria's wayfare was beset by bad Samaritans. We have felt the falsities to which they bowed as falser than the genuine idolatry which held her from a nobler worship, and from an air purer than most of her surrounders ever breathed. It was in Nelson's erring unselfishness that her salvation and her damnation met. And in her semi-consecration of true motherhood, springing at first from wild-animal devotion to her first child, we can discern the refinement of instinct which at length led the born pagan within the pale of reverence. Astray as a girl, she had found refuge in her own devotion, with which she invested Greville's patronage. An outcast at the close, she turned for shelter to a worthier home. And above all, implanted in her from the first, and in- eradicable, her unwavering fondness for her mother has half- erased her darkest blots, and made her more beautiful than her beauty. May we not say, at the last, that because she loved much, much shall be forgiven her: quia multtcm amavit. The site of her grave has vanished, and with it the two poor monuments rumoured to have marked the spot ; the first (if Mrs. Hunter be here believed) of wood, ' like a battledore, handle downwards'; the second, a headstone, which a Guide to Calais mentions in 1833.^ Its Latin inscription was then partially decipherable: — '. . . Quae . . . Calesiae Via in Gallica vocati Et in domo C.vi. obiit Die XV. Mensis Januarii. a.d. MDCCCXV. ^tatis suae Ll.' ^ It was perhaps erected by some officer of that navy which, long after she had gone, always remembered her unflagging zeal and kindness with gratitude. Her best epitaph may be found in the touching lines indited by Nelson's Doctor Beatty, who had himself known * Pettigrew, vol. ii. p. 636. The 'battledore' bore the inscription, 'Emma Hamilton, England's friend,' - i.e. In the fifty-first year of her age. FROM DEBT TO DEATH 475 and liked her, after visiting her grave on his return from attending Wilh'am IV and his wife in German^-. They were pubh'shed in 1831 : — ' And here is one— a nameless grave — the grass Waves dank and dismal o'er its crumbling mass Of mortal elements — the wintry sedge Weeps drooping o'er the rampart's watery edge ; The rustling reed — the darkly rippling wave — Announce the tenant of that lowly grave. . . . Levelled with the soil, The wasting worm hath revelled in its spoil — The spoil of beauty ! This, the poor remains Of one who, living, could command the strains Of flattery's harp and pen. Whose incense, flung From venal breath upon her altar, hung, A halo ; while in loveliness supreme She moved in brightness, like th' embodied dream Of some rapt minstrel's warm imaginings. The more than form and face of earthly things. Few bend them at thy bier, unhappy one ! All know thy shame, thy mental sufferings, none. All know thy frailties— all thou wast and art ! JJut thine were faults of circumstance, not heart. Thy soul was formed to bless and to be bless'd With that immortal boon— a guiltless breast, And be what others seem — had bounteous Heaven Less beauty lent, or stronger \irtue given 1 The frugal matron of some lowlier hearth, Thou hadst not known the splendid woes of earth : Dispensing happiness, and happy— there Thou hadst not known the curse of being fair '. But like yon lonely vesper star, thy light — Thy love— had been as pure as it was bright. I 've met thy pictured bust in many lands, I 've seen the stranger pause with lifted hands In deep, mute admiration, while his eye Dwelt sparkling on thy peerless symmetry. I 've seen the poet's — painter's — sculptor's gaze Speak, with rapt glance, their eloquence of praise. I 've seen thee as a gem in royal halls Stoop, like presiding angel from the walls. And only less than worshipp'd ! Yet 'tis come To this ! When all but slander's voice is dumb. And they who gazed upon thy living face. Can hardly find thy mortal resting-place.' APPENDIX PART I.— NOTES A. — Evidences as to the date of Lady Hamilton's birth. Greville, writing in May 1785, tells Sir William Hamilton that she was only twenty years of age (Morrison MS, 137). As her birthday was admittedly on April 26, he evidently believed her birth to have occurred in the same year as the copy of her baptismal register which he possessed, and to which I have alluded in the text. He was also in full possession of her ' past ' ; so that when he received her in 1782 he can have seen nothing improbable in the previous events having happened in a short space of time to a girl sixteen years old. Sir William Hamilton himself, writing in May 1789, speaks of 'the difference between 22 and 57' {Ibid. 177). But Sir William is constantly very slipshod in dates. This would make himself born in 1732, whereas he was born in 1730, or a earliest (from other indications in other letters) 1729; while it would make Emma born in 1767, which is obviously, in view of her baptismal register, impossible. Writing in 1802 to Bowen, Lady Hamilton (as I have quoted in the text) observes that she only began her education at seventeen years of age: this refers to her asso- ciation with Greville in the spring of 1782, and therefore keeps to 1765 as the date of her birth {Ibid. 68g). The Calais record of her death (about January 15, 1815) calls her '51,' and adheres therefore to the same date 1765 (her birthday being in April). When we take all these evidences in conjunction with the marriage register of her parents in 1764, given for the first time in my text, and with the exact baptismal register of May 1765 (differ- ing from that sent to Greville only in the name), there can be no doubt that she was born April 26, 1765, unless we assume, without evidence or even rumour, that she was an illegitimate child. B. — Dr. James Graham ( 1 745 - 1 794). The son, it is said, of a saddler, this singular empiric was born in the Cowgate, Edinburgh. He attended its university, but it is doubtful if he qualified there as physician. In 1770 he married at Pontefract a Miss Pickering ; and soon afterwards migrated to 470 APPENDIX: NOTES 477 America. From 1772 to 1774 he seems to have practised at Philadelphia as an oculist. But his inborn itch for notoriety, oddity, and gain, led him from an early period to anticipate the modern American cult of advertisement, just as his real skill, debased by his quack methods, anticipated the modern acceptance of mud-baths, massage, and galvanism. In 1774 he was advertis- ing his miracles at Bristol; m 1775, after a brief sojourn at Bath, he appears as a full-blown trumpeter and showman in Pall Mall 'opposite St. James's Palace,' where he was subsequently to re- appear about 1 781 in a far greater blaze of puffery. At Bath, in the former year, he met Mrs. Catherine Macaulay, the authoress. He had already established his 'magnetic throne,' and advocated electricity and massage. In 1778-1779 he conceived, and prepared for, his grand venture of the 'Temple of ^sculapius,' in the Adelphi Terrace. Garrick had just died there, and it seems probable that it was Garrick's house which, so soon as he could scrape money enough together, he acquired. Adelphi Terrace was already mortgaged to the banking house of Drummond, and was by no means in request, owing to the muddy Thames water which periodically flooded its cellars. The nature of his gorgeous and tinsel show there has been sketched in my text. It was a blend of imposture and truth advertised with persistent and unblushing effrontery, and enhanced by all the ritual of a sham prophet. He was always religious in his professions, and he trusted much to music and painting as appeals to the senses. In the early part of 1779 he was at Newcastle superintending the manufacture of his ' crystal pillars ' and the glass apparatus of his electrical machines. In the same year he was at Paris, where he met Franklin, and at Aix, where he found countenance from Georgina, Duchess of Devonshire and other distinguished patronesses whom his electric system really benefited. He inaugurated his temple in the autumn, where he professed to cure sterility, repair the degeneration of a declining race, teacli the elements of natural health, and prolong life. He charged a crown admittance, but the ' Celestial Bed ' cost ;^5o a lodging; and all his days were spent in consultations. He hired 'giant footmen' in sumptuous liveries, fine musicians, and tolerable artists. The performance closed at ten each night. It soon became the talk of the town. Horace Walpole found him a 'dull' mountebank; Colman produced (1780) a play satirising the show as ' The Genius of Nonsense.' Graham sought in vain to start legal proceedings against him for portraying him as 'the Emperor of Quacks.' He himself had a clever if scurrilous knack, which he exercised in his lectures. One excerpt will suffice: — 'This curious, most eccentric, and most cordially concentric lecture is begun wiih enumerating the safest and most efificacious ways and means uf producing a Numerous, a Healthy, a Beautiful, and a Virtuous offspring, and is closed with a glowing, brilliant, and supremely delightful description of the structure, and most irresistibly genial influences of the Celestial Bed. The whole 478 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON illustrated and embellished by a just and spirited Review of the Candour of Newspapers, of the present Professors and Adminis- trators of Politics, Law, Physics, and Divinity, and with a Naked Exhibition of Asses stuffed of their ermine, viz. of County Just- asses, Mares, Alderwomen and Whippers-in, by James Graham, M.D., President of the Council of Health, Sole Proprietor and Principal Director of the Temple of Health in Pall Mall near the King's Palace.'^ This, of course, refers to his reception by Respecta- bility ; in another, he ' looks down ' on ' the curious faculty ' with ' smiles of ineffable and sovreign contempt,' reminding one of Miss Squeers's attitude towards Nicholas Nickleby. If Lady Hamilton 'posed' for him as 'Hygeia,' it must have been at the very end of 1780; for in the spring of 1781 he removed on a reduced scale to Schomberg House, Pall Mall (where also was Gainsborough's studio), and opened his exhibition as the ' Temple of Hymen,' with ' Hebe Vestma' as high priestess. Had ' Miss Hart ' ever appeared in that character the free satire on the show of 'II Convito Amoroso,' published in 1782 and mentioned hi my text, would most probably have referred to her, for she was then already known, and was being painted by Romney and Reynolds. It contains, however, no allusion to her. In 1 783 the enterprising but luckless ' Doctor ' was in Edinburgh, where his ' high priestess ' read lectures to ladies on their true position in society and the world. These lectures were repeated in Graham's London house during the summer of that year, and found a listener in Mrs. Curtis, the youngest sister of Mrs. Siddons. By December the ' woman's rights ' tack was relinquished, and he is found advertising how to be a centenarian. Up to 1786 silence reigns respecting him, and it may be inferred that he practised without notoriety as a physician, in order to repair his embarrassed fortunes. That year sees him in Paris once more, and afterwards in Newcastle and Edinburgh. In 1789, at Bath, he speaks of himself as having toned down the exuberances of youth, and as basking in an 'autumn, intellectual sun.' But already in 1787 he had turned ' Christian Philosopher,' and proclaimed himself ' Servant to the Lord Omnipotence, Wisdom, and Love.' He desired a 'New Christian Church,' and he combined his new heavenly with his old earthly wisdom of mud-baths, to which he added the gospel of open air and the wickedness of curtains and coverings. In 1790 he and his lady assistant, with their heads magnificently dressed and powdered, might have been seen at Bath immersed in earth up to their chins, and looking like ' two cauliflowers.' At the same time and place he advocated ' A new Christian Church.' He pressed his prayers on the pillow of the King, whose brain was softening. He pressed on the scapegrace Prince of Wales his version of the Book of Wisdom, recommend- ^ 1780. 'Sold at the Temple of Health; at the Pamphlet Shop under the Front Piazza of the Royal Exchange ; and at Mr. Rich's Pamphlet Shop opposite Anderson's Coffee House, No. 55 Fleet Street, price 2s. 6d ' APPENDIX: NOTES 479 ing Wisdom to his serious notice as *a beautiful and spotless virgin princess of imperial descent.' In 1793 total abstinence (then an absolute novelty) had become his hobby. But it does not seem to have agreed with him, for in 1794 he died suddenly opposite the Archers' Hall, Edinburgh.^ Throughout he appears to have united the frenzies of a Fifth Monarchy man to the orgies rampant in France and America just before the Revolution of the one, and just after the Rebellion of the other. Good ideas were clothed by him in disgusting attire, licence was exploited under the name of liberty; and while he duped idleness and curiosity, he was often able to cure disease. C. — Emma ' Cavew.^ Emma ' Carew,' a//a^ ' Connor,' seems to have been the 'little Emma' born in the early part of 1782, and the object of Emma's delighted fondness in the summer of 1784, as her Park Gate letters of that year in the Morrison autographs copiously illustrate. Mr. Jeaffreson took the view, which lacks any authentic foundation, that she was an older ' Emma.' The evidence is all the other way, as I have indicated in my text. The mere fact that mentions of her then and afterwards may sometimes seem applicable to an older child, is no proof apart from corroboration. Like her mother, and like Horatia afterwards (about whose age there is no doubt), she may well have appeared and behaved in advance of her years (cf. Morrison MS. 125-129). 'Little Emma' was allowed for a space by Emma's entreaty to remain under the Edgware Row roof-tree at the close of 1784, but Grevillc insisted that she should be brought up apart, though he was ready to aid in the expenses of a proper education, and did so aid until after Emma's marriage, when Sir William and Lady Hamilton defrayed the charges between them. Our knowledge on this subject is wholly derived from the Morrison MS. Without entering into tedious details, these letters prove — (i) That Emma was sent to a home and school " kept by a Mr. and Mrs. Blackburn, of whom Greville approved, somewhere near Manchester, where Lady Hamilton's mother visited her in 1791, and again in 1801 (causing the nine years old girl to wonder once more as to her origin, and recalling early recollections. Emma and Greville allude to her both in 1796 and 1797, while Emma further alludes to her in a letter to Greville of 1793, and is exercised for her 'settlement' in 1794).'' So early as 1788 there is 1 The foregoing facts, with manv material additions, however, arc baaed on the excellent article in the Dictionary oj National Biography, as well as on independent researches. - The bill.s were regularly forwarded by Greville to Naples. Her maintenance cost about ;^ioo a year, and she was really well educated. It i.-> pretty clear that Sir William knew all about her, though in one letter Greville professes ignor- ance as to her ' history ' ; by ' history ' he probably means ' paternity.' ' Morrison MS. 221, 250. 48o EMMA, LADY HAMILTON an allusion in one of Emma ' Hart's ' letters which seems applic- able to her solicitude for her (Morrison MS. 172). (2) That Emma was probably for a time afterwards with Lady Hamilton's maternal aunt and cousins, the Connors, one of whom, 'Anne,' used about 1806 to aver herself falsely to be Lady Hamilton's child, and to call herself 'Carew ' ; ^ but there was mad- ness in the Connor family, and Charles Connor went mad. This led Emma, who was then known as ' Connor,' to style herself ' Carew.' (3) That she soon came to reside with a Mrs. Denis, 71'ee Lind, who had been in Naples, sang well herself, and was in the singing set of Mrs. Billington and Mrs. Lind, which Anne and Sarah Connor frequented from 1804 onwards. (4) That the true reason for her being kept in the background by her mother was that — as appears in my text — she had never in- formed Nelson of her existence in 1798 (though all else of her past she told him), and, therefore, shrank from making a clean breast of this secret afterwards. (5) That about 1806 — despite Lady Hamilton's tenderness for her— she resented her non-recognition and reception as acknow- ledged daughter at Merton, rendered practically impossible, per- haps, after Horatia's first appearance there, took to some indepen- dent livelihood by her own exertions, and eventually went abroad, possibly with Mrs. Denis, to Italy — after which she recedes pathetically from sight. The only note of hers which remains is her parting one in the Morrison MS. (1003), which does her so much honour that it is here transcribed. It was written in 1810, and preserved by Lady Hamilton : — ' Sunday Morning. ' Mrs. Denis's mention of your name, and the conversation she had with you, have revived ideas in my mind which an absence of four years has not been able to efface. It might have been happy for me to have forgotten the past, and to have begun a new life with new ideas; but for my misfortune, my memory traces back circum- stances which have taught me too much, yet not quite all I could have wished to have known. ^ With you that resides, and ample reasons, no doubt, you have for not imparting them to me. Had you felt yourself at liberty so to have done, I might have become reconciled to my former situation, and have been relieved from the painful employment I now pursue. It was necessary as I then stood, for I had nothing to support me but the affection I bore you ; on the other hand, doubts and fears by turns oppressed me, and I determined to rely on my own efforts, rather than to submit to abject dependence, without a permanent name or acknowledged parents. That I should have taken such a step shows, at least, that I have a mind misfortune has not subdued. That I should per- severe in it is what I owe to myself and to you, for it shall never 1 Morrison MS. 896, 959. - i.e. paternity. APPENDIX: NOTES 481 be said that I avail myself of your partiality or my own inclination, unless I learn my claim on you is greater than you have hitherto acknowledged. But the time may come when the same reasons may cease to operate, and then, with a heart filled with tenderness and affection, will I show you both my duty and attachment. In the meantime, should Mrs. Denis's zeal and kindness not have over-rated your expressions respecting me, and that you should really wish to see me, I may be believed in saying that such a meet- ing would be one of the happiest moments of my life, but for the reflection that it may also be the last, as I leave England in a few days, and may, perhaps, never return to it again.' D. — Lady Hamilton! s letter in French to the Countess of Lichtenau} * Naples, 29M March 1791. 'Tres-chere amie, je desire vivement savoir des vos cheres nouvelles et comme va votre sante, et quand vous reviendrez chez nous. Le bon et bienfaisant Ld. Bristol est au desespoir sans vous, et vous attend avec le meme empressement, que les juifs attendent Notre Seigneur chez eux.- Mon mari vous salue de tout son coeur. La bonne & sincere Denis ne parle que de vous et vous embrasse, & nous joignons nos prieres pour que vous ne voyez pas la . . . a Rome qui a ete tr^s-mechante et deshoneree ici ; mais les choses sont trop longues pour vous les conter. Je crois qu'il ne lui sera jamais permis de rentrer ici. La noble famille chez qui elle a ete cherie elle I'a trahie, et y a mis un trouble qu'il sera difificile de pouvoir calmer, et votre bon coeur souffrirait de la voir. Adieu chere comtesse : Aimez votre sincere et attachee amie, Emma Hamilton.' E. — Some new inferential evidence for Lady Hamilton's general services to England in 1794- 179 5. This particular claim is merely one of general usefulness. That from the time of Nelson's first visit to Naples, Lady Hamilton never lost an opportunity of receiving British sailors and assisting them is generally conceded and abundantly proved. In whatever Sir William did, his wife shared, while she often suggested and ex- ceeded it. In a letter of April 1794 Sir William expressly tells Greville, ' I am employed in sending Mortars and other Artillery stores of which Lord Hood is in want, for the attack of Bastia.' ^ ' Mimoires de Wilhelminay Cotnlesse de Lichtenau. Colboiirn, 1809, vol. ii. P- 54- - A mot of the blasphemous old bishop used of Emma in a letter from him to her. ' Morrison MS. 238, April 10, 1794. 2 H 482 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON But says Mr. Jeaffreson,i begrudging Lady Hamilton even a shred of veracity, any assistance rendered to Hood from Naples was merely in pursuance of the Anglo-Sicilian treaty which had been signed on July 20, 1793. This very letter, however, proves most plainly that the discovery of a fresh conspiracy to murder the King had stopped the despatch of all extra supplies. ' I question,' he adds, ' if this Government will venture to part with more of its forces than what it is obliged to do by its treaty.^ Moreover, the Acton correspondence proves that in 1794 Acton was reluctantly constrained to deny Hotham supplies.^ It is clear, therefore, that the requisite was extras ; and, in furnishing them, nobody conver- sant with Emma's letters and character can doubt her part. She may have exaggerated it, but her consistent course, directly she became paramount with the Queen, proves that it must have been substantial. Moreover, the mere Anglo-Sicilian compact never turned the Queen into an Anglo-maniac. Her adoration of Eng- land dates from Nelson's visit two months afterwards, and Emma's ardour and Sir William's awakening. In the year 1813, when she was pressing her last series of claims, she thus addressed a naval peer, presumably either Lord Hood or Lord St. Vincent,^ once associated with the then dead Nelson ; and it is inconceivable that she could so have addressed him had she been conscious of falsifications in her accompanying memorial. She alludes to damaging statements regarding it printed by a section of the press : — ' 150 Bond Street, Febrtiary 7, 1813. ' My Lord, — I had a letter written to your Lordship with a copy of my memorial and narrative to H.R.H. the Prince Regent, when to my surprise I saw the letter published in the newspapers, which very much disconcerted my way of proceeding ; my desire being that of laying my case before H.R.H., the Ministers, your Lord- ship, and a select few of the chief nobles and gentlemen of Parlia- ment, who are noted for attention to public business. ... I am sure of your Lordship's potent protection as far as you will see it deserving. ' My story is told truly as the circumstances rose to my memory. And with a safe conscience I can say, whatever is omitted I believe to be to my own disadvantage, as all my actions were guided by a Heart and Soul devoted like your Lordship's own to our dear, dear Country. — Forgive me this intrusion, but Nelson loved you, and I am alone and feel forlorn in the world, and his spirit, if it cou'd 1 In his Queen of Naples and Lord Nelson. - Add. MS. 2639, f. 217. 2 It is just possible, however, that it may have been to Lord Sidmouth, to whom, as Addington, her first memorial of 1803 had been addressed ; for, writing to George Rose in this very month, and inclosing the memorial, she also sends ' a letter I sent to Lord Sidmouth' (Rose's Diaries, vol. i. p. 270). But this is highly improbable, for Addington had been hostile from the first, and by no means friendly with Nelson. He was now Home Secretary. I APPENDIX: NOTES 483 look down, would bless you for your kindness and attention to his last wishes in the moment of death and victory to your Lordship's ever obliged and most gratefull, Emma Hamilton.'^ F. — Lady Hamilton's claim concerning the King of Spain's secret letters in the spring ^1795 and autumn of 1796 further co?i side red. My reasons for believing that Lady Hamilton's main claim regarding these applies to September 1796 have been given in my text. Professor Laughton, in, his long article in Colburn's United Service Magazine for April 1889, tries to show that they concern a series of letters which conveyed information sent by the Queen to Lady Hamilton, and transmitted by her husband to Grenville during the spring of 1795, though he also gives the succeeding despatches of Hamilton in the June and September following. All of these merely refer to the preparations by Spain for d, peace with France, and not for their formal offensive alliance in the succeeding year which was to be the crucial issue, long disguised. The preparations for peace, on the other hand, were more or less known at St. James's throughout 1795. Lady Hamilton in asserting her claim speaks of Sir William's illness as one of the reasons for her exceptional exertions, and she may have confused his severe illness in April 1795 i" *^he long train of information forwarded to her by the Queen, which culminated in the discoveries which she was thus enabled to make, with some slighter indisposition in September 1796; or she may merely have mixed, so far as her husband's illness was concerned, the two years together Lady Hamilton's claim relates to an excepiiofial ^xscov try. In writing to Lord Grenville on July 4, 1795, after the series relating to 'Galatone's cipher' in April, Sir William says that another of June 16 'was communicated to me as nsuaV This shows, and indeed all his despatches, as well as the Queen's letter to Lady Hamilton, join in showing, that throughout 1795 secret informa- tion was habitually transmitted to him through his wife to be forwarded to Lord Grenville. But as regards 1795 Professor Laughton has misinterpreted the documents which he quotes from a double error. In the first place, he does not seem to have consulted the originals, or their copies when the originals were forwarded, of the Queen's own letters to Lady Hamilton; and in the second, he has not discerned that Emma's main service in 1795 ^^'^^ in having procured not only the long ciphered despatch by ' Galatonc ' from Madrid, but also the key by which alone the cipher could be unriddled. On April 30, 1795, Sir ^Villiam, still very unwell, forwarded a long 'secret' despatch to Lord Grenville, following two other ' From the original autograph in possession of Mr. Sabin. 484 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON less important ones dated April 21 and April 28 respectively, in the latter of which he enclosed a letter from the Queen to Lady Hamilton promising her 'three papers' after the King had held his Council. In this despatch of April 30 Hamilton forwards further information, inclosing three documents received through his wife from the Queen:— (i) a copy of the last deciphered despatch from Galatone; (2) a letter from the Queen to Lady Hamilton of April 28; (3) a letter from the Queen to Lady Hamilton of April 29 ; and he says that he thinks them of such importance that he is sending 'this packet' by 'one of his 'own servants ' as far as Rome, where a ' Mr. Jenkins ' will forward it to London. This by no means implies the special messenger by whom Lady Hamilton claimed to have herself forwarded her far more important communication direct to London in the following year, as I think ; and indeed Hamilton on several occasions used means of communication similar to these. Of these inclosures (2) — the Queen's letter of April 28 (to be succeeded in the subsequent summer by the unfortunate one announcing the capture of Bilbao, and the Spanish minister Alcudia's prophecy that these losses would not last)i does not quite tally with Professor Laughton's rendering of it. The Queen forwards a ' letter in cipher come from Spain from Galatone,' which must be returned ' avant vingt-quatre heures' (Professor Laughton has it 'by 12 o'clock'!) 'afin que le roi le reirouve"^ (Professor Laughton has it ' so that the King may have it ' !). She adds that in it are 'matters very interesting for the English Government,' and, as will be seen from her next note, she has promised to for- ward shortly the 'cipher' itself, which is the clue to Galatone's ' letter iti cipher.^ These variations from the original are important. If the Queen had really written that she must have Galatone's 'letter in cipher' back by midday, there would not have been time to apply the key which she transmitted on the following morning. If the Queen had really written ' so that the King may have it,' it would not be clear that Galatone had sent the information for the King alone, and that by some means or other the Queen had obtained, and was lending, the King's private information. What she does say is 'in order that the King may yf;?^ it again.'' Now let us see what the Queen writes to Emma on the next day.-'' She sends her not a 'letter' but the 'promised cipher' — the due, 'too happy in being able to render a service.' She begs for the return of the 'cipher' also, but this time 'at the chevalier's 1 Eg. MS. 1617, f. 3. The British Museum has pencilled this as ' 1794?' I first thought it was one of spring 1795 ; but Bilbao appears to have fallen in July. ■^ Cf. Eg. MS. 16 15, f. 22. This is Lady H.'s copy of the letter in question. Her indorsement on it runs: — 'A copy of the Queen's letter, April 28, 1795. Sir William was obliged to send the original to England with the cypher Her Majesty mentions.' * This is accurately transcribed by Mr. Jeaffreson in his Queen of Naples, vol. i. p. 289. APPENDIX: NOTES 4^5 convenience'; the King, be it marked, will not miss the ^ cipher^ as he must have missed the ' letter.^ She warns Emma, ' above all to take care' that she is not 'compromised.'^ 'There is no atrocity which Spain, who hates me already, would not be capable of against me.'- These confusions have caused Professor Laughton to suppose that the further inclosure of the long 'chiffre regu de Galatone ' about the French proposals of peace ^ refers to the 'promised cipher^ mentioned in the Queen's letter to Emma of April 29, instead of, as really, to 'the letter \n cipher come from Spain from Galatone' mentioned in her letter of the day before. He has not perceived the manifest distinction between the 'cipher' and the ' letter in cipher ' at all, nor discerned that what Emma then obtained was the key by which the ' letter ' could be translated. On May 16 Sir William forwarded to Grenville 'a continuation of the ciphered despatches' which he was now able to decipher, and after again warning the minister against compromising the Queen, he incloses another note from her to his wife with the three ' very curious papers ' accompanying it, which are really con- firmatory of previous information. It should be noticed that this Queen's letter of May is one in ordinary course, and not one for official inspection. These always begin ' Chfere Miledy ' ; this begins 'Ma chere amie.' And finally, after a further and im- material despatch of July 4, 1795, Sir William forwards one of September i, in which he 'loses no time in communicating' that the peace negotiations have 'commenced.' He again transmits this by a .y^////-special messenger. His despatches of October are irrelevant to the points at issue. One word more with regard to the crucial discovery of September 1796, which in the text, I maintain, was due to Emma. The ' letter ' from Charles of Spain to Ferdinand of Naples was not in cipher. Emma describes it as 'a private letter,' and Sir William Hamilton as ' written in Spanish.' It is important also to observe that Sir William's ' secret ' despatch to IvOrd Grenville of September 21, 1796,"^ forwarding the information, does not inclose the copy of the original, or any document at all. My inference is, in view of other and ampler evidence urged in the text, that the reason for its unusual absence is that Emma had herself forwarded ^ These requests that her name should not be mentioned recur perpetually. There was a striking instance in 1799 (July 14), when Sir William, writing on the Foudroyant to (Jrenville a 'separate and secret' despatch, and inclosing as usual the Queen's letters to Emma, observes. ' . . . I have prevailed on my wife to allow me to entrust to your Lordship the most interesting . . . but not with- out a solemn promise from me that they should be restored to her by your Lordship on our arrival in England. . . .' Cf. P. R.O., Sic. Papers, vol. iv., quoted by Gutteridgc, Nelson aud the Neafoliiav Jacobins, p. 317. - On the following day she again wrote. She was leaving for Cardiletto, when she would be absent all the day. ' Vous seriez bien occupc jiour moi.' •'' Dated March 31, 1795, «in'l translated from the Italian given by Professor Laughton in his article on p. 652. ^ Transcribed by Professor Laughton at p. 659. 486 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON her copy of the original by ' the Count of Munster's courier ' to London, as afterwards both she and Nelson, on several occasions, claimed that she had done. G. — Lady Hamilton's claim to have procured the watering of the British Fleet in the summer of lyg^ further considered. Professor Laughton's criticism ^ is rightly exercised on circum- stances.^ He, of course, doubts the dramatic scenes either of Emma's dictating a letter to the Queen, or as to the ' talisman,' given respectively by Pettigrew and Harrison, while he omits another in one of Emma's memorials about her supplication with tears. That such dramatic scenes as these are not of themselves improbable is shown by the dramatic scene of herself haranguing the Queen, in her new letter to Nelson of October 24, 1798, transcribed in this Appendix. But Jeaffreson's argument that on June 1 7 the fleet was not short of water is, as I hope to have made quite clear in my text, beside the point, which was the necessity that must arise afterwards, and against which Nelson's instructions from the Government had expressly guarded, in a long and uncertain pursuit of the formid- able French fleet. Neither the ministerial instructions in allowing force, if necessary, to obtain refreshment, nor the limited rights for four vessels at a time to be in harbour, under the Franco-Neapolitan engagement, could possibly prevent delay, and delay it was that Nelson most dreaded. As it happened, he was enabled to set sail from Syracuse in July earlier than he had anticipated. The question of the 'Queen's letter' has, I hope, now been settled, as well as the point of the Austrian negotiations for a defensive pact witli Naples, and the instructions by the Neapolitan ministers to the governors of ports that, pending those negotiations a show of resistance must be made, which explains so much of what happened in July. With regard to this point I should like here to emphasise the relevance of Acton's letters (Eg. MS. 2640, ff". 83, 87, 89) of the first two weeks in August 1798, after the Nile battle had been won, but while he was still ignorant that Nelson had gained an effectual refreshment for his fleet, and was still apologising to Hamilton for the lack of it, and proposing measures to supply Nelson's needs. They strongly corroborate my view of the ' Governor of Syracuse's letter.' On August 2, Acton tells Hamil- ton, in view of Nelson's complaints, that 'a single kind of ostensible opposition was made, in case that the Court of Vienna had denied the desired explanation,' and adds that he hopes that Nelson will be found ' by the Transfer sloop.' On August 7, he states that Gallo had told him of Nelson's 'humour,' which he hopes may soon be remedied. So late as August 15, even after hearing how Nelson had departed from Syracuse ' fully satisfied with reception and pro- ^ Nelson's Last Codicil, Colbuin's Uitiled Service Magazine, May 1889. APPENDIX: NOTES 487 visions,' he still speaks of him as provisioned for seven or eight weeks only, and he still proposes measures for victualling Nelson's squadron. From a sentence in Acton's letter to Hamilton of June 22 (Eg. MS. 2640, f. 73), 'He [GaratJ was desabused by Gallo Wednesday evening,' I assumed that a second council had then been held, but this remains wholly uncertain. I subjoin, for what they are worth, the main parts of the draft in Hamilton's handwriting 1 (hitherto uncited) for the familiar despatch to Lord Grenville of June 18, 1798.2 This despatch, despite its date, cannot have been forwarded till about three days later, since the draft is dated ' June 20.' I append a material extract, with its interlineations and erasures. It begins with Troubridge's arrival at the Embassy in the early morning of June 17 : — * Naples, /«<«« 20, 1798. 'Captain Troubridge of the CuUoden came to me from the admiral for intelligence . . ., and for a clear and positive answer whether the Ports of H.S.M.'s dominions . . . were open without woud be limitation or not for the King's Ships of war and whether they -wete- alow'd to supply themselves, &c. I shew'd him the official answer A copy of which you will have received by the last Messenger. I had received from the Marquis Gallo. a But as Capt. Troubridge seem'd to be wft* in a great hurry to join the admiral & pursue the Enemy now that he had been that the armament was off Malta -whe — '.ycrG ao wo informed by the laot account of the loth instant thout:;ht it best to carry him off Malta; I carried hin> directly to General Acton, and we did more real business in half an hour than we shou'd have done in the in a week. and home usual official wayA Troubridge put strong a questions to General Acton who answe ' 'hem fairly, but as I saw that what Capt. was m>. .ious to obtain Troubridge wishca - >p-m©st-"W8»7 as he expected an immediate to all the Governors in Sicily action with the french fleet was an order of His S. Majesty a — to of British be allow A the A sick and wounded to A put on shore . . . — and also fresh that they might be allow'd to get A provisions for the fleet from I prevailed upon G.Acton to give in his own hand and in the these Ports. A This order 4fi-A the King's name wao immediately directly and he given by-Gl. Acton- to Troubridge a who went off to join the adm'. in high good humour with the genl. whom more than he said was a good man of business. Me did not stay two hours on shore. A Jnimodiatcly. -Aftd-Jmrdly stay'd two hourc on shore. ... He expressed only a wish to get sight of Buonaparte. . . . P.S. — This Court, as you may perceive, is in great distress.' ' Eg. MS. 2638, f. 2S7. - Clarke and Macarthur, vol. ii. p. 64. 488 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON But in the draft Hamilton first omitted, and added afterwards, that the order was in Acton's handwriting as well as in the ' King's name ' : it is evident that the King himself did not sign the document. Hamilton could not mention in an official despatch anything that might have been effected in the meanwhile, behind the backs both of King and Council, by Emma and the Queen. Hamilton in his despatch to Lord Grenville of August 4 ex- pressly says, in explanation of the circumstances which caused Nelson's anger and disappointment at Syracuse a fortnight earlier, 'The whole mystery was that the Court of Naples could not with- out risk throw off the mask until it had received the ratified treaty with the Emperor of Germany.' These diplomatic circumstances, as I have shown, form the key to the Governor of Syracuse's letter, but they also tend to show that the order in the King's name could not of itself sur- mount delays in provisioning vessels, and point (under the cir- cumstances that happened) to the probability of the Queen having intervened, unknown to her husband, who would have been furious. Nelson's official accounts of what transpired are naturally guarded and reserved. It was the same with his account of the flight to Palermo. But all along he was in constant private communica- tion with the Hamiltons ; the Queen's letters to Emma even during the week before Nelson's arrival in the bay of Naples show that the news of these letters was regularly reported to her by her friend.^ Bearing all the circumstances in mind, and discounting ex- aggerations and concealments on either side, it seems to me that Emma and the Queen bore a much more active part in these transactions than Hamilton or Acton. So Nelson held, and he knew. The King and Acton were probably never informed of what happened without their knowledge. But Nelson, at Syracuse, was perfectly aware of the change that came over the scene there in two days, and I think that he ought to be believed. H. — An Abstract of the legal document of May 6, 18 14, whereby Lady Hamilton received her first payment in advance of Lord Nelson s annuity P' It is signed 'Emma Hamilton,' and recites that ' Lord Nelson bequeathed to me ' an annuity of ^^500 'as a tax on the rental of ^ Cf. Eg. MS. 1618, f. 7 ; 1615, f. 102, and afterwards (June 29) the Queen follows Nelson's movements with anxiety. Ibid. f. 107. - Add. iNIS. 34,992, f. 300. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 489 Bronte by the codicil to his will of 19th February 1804, to be paid half-yearly ' in advance ' during my life, and by a postscript directed the first half-year ' to be first paid after the interest was received.' ' And whereas no arrear of rent was received by his executors until September 1806, and no rent accruing after his [Nelson's] decease was received by Earl Nelson, now Duke of Bronte, for his own use until January 1808,' 'and whereas Earl Nelson was advised by Counsel that,' under these events, 'the said annuity was not payable half-yearly in advance, and therefore the same hath not hitherto been so paid. But a different opinion having been expressed by persons consulted by me,' it acknowledges that the Earl having there- upon consented to pay a half-annuity in advance, that ' I have this day received from Earl Nelson the sum of ^^225, which, with ^25 property tax deducted, is ^^250, being a half-year's payment of the said annuity in advance, the said annuity having been paid in full to 2ist day of April inclusive.' 'Witness my hand, 6th day of May 1814.' PART II.— NEW LETTERS A. — Lady Hamiltofi's Correspondence with Admiral {and afterwards) Lord Nelson in September and October 1798.^ (i) Lady Hamilioji to Admiral Nelson. {llthjiiue 179S. I Mv DEAR Admiral, — I write in a hurry as Captain T. Carrol stays on Monarch. God bless you and send you victorious, and that I may see you bring back buonaparte with you. pray send Captain Hardy - out to us, for I shall have a fever with anxiety. The Queen desires me to say everything that 's kind and bids me say with her whole heart and soul she wishes you victory. God bless you, my dear sir. I will not say how glad I shall be to see you. Indeed I cannot describe to you my feelings on your being so near us. — Ever, ever, dear Sir, your affte. and gratefuU Emma Hamilton. \^Addressed, 'Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson.' Indorsed, 'Lady Hamilton, 17th June '98.'] ' Add. MS. 34,989, fi'. 1-32. This series was acquired in 1S96. - This shows ih.il ILndy arrived «//<:;■ Troubridgc. 490 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON (2) Lady Haynilton to Admiral Neisoft. [Same date, similar paper y writlen very htirriedly.'] Dear Sir, — I send you a letter I have received this moment from the Queen. Kiss it, and send it me back by Bowen, as I am bound not to give any of her letters. — Ever yrs., Emma. (3) The same to the same. \_This letter is written, as was Lady Hamilton'' s frequent habit, on several successive days.] Naples, Septembers, 1798. My dear, dear Sir, — How shall I begin, what shall I say to you. 'tis impossible I can write, for since last Monday ^ I am delerious with joy, and assure you I have a fevour caused by agitation and pleasure. God, what a victory ! Never, never has there been anything half so glorious, so compleat, I fainted when I heard the joyful! news, and fell on my side and am hurt, but now well [?] of that. I shou'd feil it a glory to die in such a cause. No, I wou'd not like to die till I see and embrace the Victor of the JVi'k. How shall I describe to you the transports of Maria Carolina, 'tis not possible. She fainted and kissed her husband, her children, walked about the room, cried, kissed, and embraced every person near her, exclaiming. Oh, brave Nelson, oh, God bless and protect our brave deliverer, oh, Nelson, Nelson, what do we not owe to you, oh Victor, Savour of Ltali, oh, that my swolen heart cou'd 710W tell him personally what 7ve oive to him / You may judge, my dear Sir, of the rest, but my head will not permit me to tell you half of the rejoicing. The Neapolitans are mad with joy, and if you wos here now, you wou'd be killed with kindness. Sonets on sonets, illuminations, rejoicings; not a French dog dare shew his face. How I glory in the honner of my Country and my Countryman ! I walk and tread in air with pride, felling I was born in the same land with the victor Nelson and his gallant band. But no more, I cannot, dare not, trust myself, for I am not well. Little dear Captain Hoste will tell you the rest. He dines with us in the day, for he will not sleep out of his ship, and we Love him dearly. He is a fine, good lad. Sir William is delighted with him, and I say he will be a second Nelson. If he is onely half a Nelson, he will be superior to all others. I send you two letters from my adorable queen. One was written to me the day we received the glorious news, the other yesterday. Keep them, as they are in her own handwriting. I have kept copies only, but I feil that you ought to have them. If you had seen our meeting after the battle, but I will keep it all for your arrival. I coo'd ^ not do justice to her felling nor to my own, * September 3, when the private news of the Nile battle first reached her. ^ She usually spells this correctly. It perhaps echoes the burr of her Cheshire accent in her excitement. The letters throughout are unpunctuated, and the stops are inserted by me. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 491 with writing it ; and we are preparing your appartment against you come. I hope it will not be long, for Sir William and I are so impatient to embrace you. I wish you cou'd have seen our house the 3 nights of illumination. 'Tis, 'twas covered with your glorious name. Their were 3 thousand Lamps, and their shou'd have been 3 miUions if we had had time. All the English vie with each other in celebrating this most gallant and ever memorable victory. Sir William is ten years younger since the happy news, and he now only wishes to see his friend to be completely happy. How he glories in you when your name is mentioned. He cannot contain his joy. For God's sake come to Naples soon. We receive so many Sonets and Letters of congratulation. I send you some of them to shew you how your success is felt here. How I felt for poor Troubridge. He must have been so angry on the sandbank, so brave an officer ! In short, I pity those who were not in the battle. I wou'd have been rather an English powder-monkey, or a swab in that great victory, than an Emperor out of it, but you will be so tired of all this. Write or come soon to Naples, and rejoin your ever sincere and oblidged friend, Emma Hamilton. The Queen [h]as this moment sent a Dymond Ring to Captain Hoste, six buts of wine, 2 casks, for the officers, and every man on board a guinea each. Her letter is in English and comes as from an unknown person, but a well-wisher to our country, and an admirer of our gallant Nelson. As war is not yet declared with France, she cou'd not shew herself so openly as she wished, but she [h]as done so much, and rejoiced so very publickly, that all the world sees it. She bids me to say that she longs more to see you than any woman with child can long for anything she may take a fancy to,^ and she shall be for ever unhappy if you do not come. God bless you my dear, dear friend. My dress from head to foot is alia Nelson. Ask Hoste. Even my shawl is in Blue with gold anchors all over. My earrings are Nelson's anchors ; in short, we are be-Nelsoned all over. I send you some Sonets, but I must have taken a ship on purpose to send you all written on you. Once more, God bless you. My mother desires her love to you. I am so sorry to write in such a hurry. I am affraid you will not be able to read this scrawl. \^Here, I am half disposed to think, ought to follow the passage in No. (8) beginning ' My dear little fatherless Fady.'] (4) Zady Hamilton to Lady Nelson. Naples, October z, 179S. I hope your Ladyship received my former letter with an account of Lord Nelson's arrival, and his reception by their Sicilian ' This curious illustration alludes to Maria Carolina's own dauglitcr-in-law, the Princess Clementine's then condition. 492 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Majesties ; and allso the congratulations and compliments from this amiable Queen to your Ladyship which I was charged with and wrote a month back, but as the posts were very uncertain, you may not have received that letter. Lord Nelson is gone to Leghorn with the troops of the King of Naples, and we expect him soon Back, as the King is gone to Rome with his army ; and he beg'd of ray Lord Nelson to be as much in and about Naples as he cou'd, not only to advise and consult with her Majesty, who is Regent for the good of the common cause, but, in case of accident, to take care of her and of her familly. Lord Nelson is adored here, and looked on as the deliverer of this country. He was not well when first he arrived, but by nursing and asse's milk he went from Naples quite recovered. The King and Queen adore him, and if he had been their Brother, they cou'd not have shewn him more respect and atten- tions. I need not tell your Ladyship how happy Sir William and myself are at having an opertunity of seeing our dear, respectable, brave friend return here with so much honner to himself, and glory for his country. We only wanted you to be completely happy. Lord Nelson's wound is quite well. Josiah ^ is so much improv'd in every respect, we are all delighted with him. He is an excellent officer and very steady, and one of the best hearts in the world. I Love him much, and allthough we quarrel sometimes, he loves me and does as I wou'd have him. He is in the way of being rich, for he has taken many prizes. He is indefatigable in his line, never sleeps out of his ship, and I am sure will make a very great officer. Lady Knight and her amiable daughter ^ desire to be remembered to your Ladyship. I hope you received the ode I sent ; it is very well written, but Miss Knight is very clever in everything she undertakes. Sir William desires his kind compliments to your Lady- ship and to Lord Nelson's respected father. The King is having his picture set with dymonds for his Lord- ship, and the Queen has ordered a fine set of china with all the battles he Jias been engaged in, and his picture painted on china. Josiah desired his duty to your Ladyship, and says he will write as soon as he [h]as time, but he has been very busy for some time past. God bless you and your's, my dear Madam, and believe me your Ladyship's very sincere friend, Emma Hamilton. Sir William is in a rage with [the] ministry for not having made Lord Nelson a Viscount, for, sure, this great and glorious action — ^ Nisbet, Lady N.'s son and Lord N.'s stepson, to whom, as a lad, Lady Hamilton had been kindness itself at Naples in 1793, but whom she grew to dis- like as Lady Nelson's suspicions and coldness increased. He took to drink, was often insubordimte, and gave the stepfather, who advanced him in every way, great future trouble. He had saved Nelson's life in 1796. - Miss Cornelia. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 493 greater than any other — ought to have been recognised more. Hang them, I say.^ [Addressed to the 'Right Honourable Lady Nelson, Roundwood, near Ipswich, Suffolk '; sealed in red with : Nelson, I August 1798. Indorsed in Lady Nelson's handwriting, ' Lady Hamilton's letter to Lady Nelson, Naples, October 2, 1798.'] (5) Lord JVelson to Lady Hamilt07i - [Muck interlined and corrected.^ Oct. 3, 1798. My dear Madam, — The anxiety which you and Sir William Hamilton have always had for the happiness and welfare of their Sicilian Majesties, was also planted [in mej in the five years past. And I can safely say, that on every occasion which have \sic\ offered (which have been numerous), I have never failed to mani- fest my sincere regard for the felicity of these kingdoms. Under this attachment, I cannot be an indifferent spectator to what has been and is passing in the two Sicilies, nor to the misery which, without being a politician, I cannot but see plainly is now ready to fall on these very kingdoms now so loyal, by the worst of all policies, that of procrastination. Since my arrival in these seas in June last I have seen in the Sicilians the most loyal people to their sovreign, with the utmost detestation of the French and their principles. Since my arrival at Naples I have found all ranks, from the very highest to the lowest, eager for war with the French, who, all know, are preparing an army of Robbers to plunder these kingdoms and destroy the monarchy. I have seen the minister of the insolent French pass over in silence manifest breach[es] of the 3rd article of the treaty between their Sicilian Majesties and the French Republic. Ought not this extraordinary conduct to be seriously noticed ? Have \sic\ not the uniform conduct of the French been to lull the Government into a fatal security, and been to destroy them. As I have before stated, is it not known to every person that Naples is the most marked object for plunder — with their knowledge, and that His Sicilian Majesty has an army ready (I am told, to march into a country ready to receive them with the advantage of carrying on the .var from the cnomicii country,'^ instead of waiting for it at ^ These words .-ire written very small. - This sketch of policy and [iroject for the royal safety is the hrsl draft for another and more formal document which has been published (cf. Laughton's Despatches, pp. 171 -173). It was intended to be shown to the ministers. It is included here with Lady Hamilton's letters, so as not to break the series. * Erased in the original. 494 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Home). I am all astonishment that the army has not marched a month ago. I trust the arrival of General Mack will induce the Government not to lose any more of the favourable time, which Providence has put in their hands. For, if they do, and wait for an attack in the country instead of carrying the war out of it, it requires no gift of prophecy to pronounce that these kingdoms will be divided, and the monarchy destroy'd. But shou'd, unfortun- ately, this miserable Ruinous system of procrastination be persisted in, I wou'd recommend that all your property and persons are ready to embark at a very short notice. It will be my duty to look and provide for your safety, and with it (I am sorry to think it will be necessary), that of the amiable Queen of these kingdoms and her family. I have read with admiration her dignified and incompar- able letter of September 1796. May the councils of this kingdom ever be guided by such sentiments of dignity, honour, and justice. And may the words of the great Mr. Pitt be instilled into the ministry of this country, — ' The Boldest measures are the safest,' is the sincere wish of your Ladyship's, &c. PS. — Your Ladyship will, I beg, receive this letter as a pre- paritive \sic\ for Sir William Hamilton, to whom I am writing with all respect the firm and unalterable opinion of a British Admiral, anxious to approve himself a faithful servant to his sovreign by doing everything in his power for the Happiness and Dignity of their Sicilian majesties and their kingdom. [This paper shows, (i) That so early as October 3 Nelson was urging flight, probably against the grain both of the Queen, Acton, and Hamilton ; (2) that Lady Hamilton was the intermediary both with her and Sir William, before anything could be done. Indorsed, 'My letter to Lady Hamilton, 3 Oct. 1798,' but not in Nelson's or Lady H.'s handwriting.] (6) Lady Ha7nilton to Lord Nelson. Caserta, October 20, 1798. My dear, respectable ^ Friend, — We have this moment had a letter from Troubridge to say the Flora cutter is going to join you, and I fell so happy to have an opertunity to write, alltho' but a line, to our dear, dear Admiral to say how miserable we were for some days,2 j-j^t j^q^ hope of your return revives us. We are oblidged to live here now till her Royal Highness' ^ squaling, and thank God, her . . .,* so all the ladies in the pallace say. I know 1 This adjective, so often used by the Queen also, means, of course, in eighteenth century parlance, 'venerated.' - Nelson left Naples for Malta, October 16. With the exception of a brief return, after which he started for Leghorn, he was not back till early November. •■' Princess Clementine (arch-duchess, cousin and wife of the Neapolitan heir- apparent) was expecting her first confinement. ^ The words are difficult to ascertain, and in any case they are too plain spoken for transcription. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 495 nothing about it. Yesterday we heard of nothing but the ' Pancia Caduta,' which is a sign that she will soon Bring Forth. Then we go to Naples, for it is impossible here [to] be happy, when our ships are there, and my anxiety for news is such I have no rest. However, here we go on with vigour, and I flatter myself We Spur them, for I am allways with the Queen, and I hold out your energick language to her. Mack ^ is writing. He does not go to visit the frontiers, but is now working night and day, and then goes for good. And I tell her Majesty,/^?- God's sake, for the Country s sake, and for your own sake, send hifn of[f] as soon as possible, no time to be lost, and I believe he goes after to-morrow. The rebel- lion in Ireland being finished, and the French troops taken, [h]as given them fresh courage. I translate from our papers for her to inspire her, or them, I should say, with some of our spirit and energy. How delighted we Booth were to sit and speak of you. She loves, respects, and admires you. For myself, I will leave you to guess my fellings. Poor dear Trowbridge staid that night ^ to comfort us. What a good, dear soul he is ! I have not time to say more, and not being in Naples, I have nothing to send you. How provoking ! The Queen desires her kindest complements, and thanks you for leving Trowbridge. He is to come down soon, and I am to present him. She says she shou'd not feil happy if she had not one English ship here, to send of[f ] her poor children. Give my compliments to good, dear Tyson. I love him for his real attachment to you. Remember me to Hardy and Mr. Cummins [?] ; he is a worthy, good man, I am sure, and his pro- fession must give him respect allways ; and shake little Fady and Woodin by the hand for me. I hope your doctor is satisfied with your health. How do you do for your cook ? The dog, I will have him taken as a deserter, but all is for the best, perhaps. Your steward is better with John Bull's roost and boil than the Italian spoil-stomach sauce of a dirty Neapolitan. God bless you ! How we abused Gallo '•'' yesterday ! How she hates him ! He won't reign long; so much the better ! Write to me, and come soon,/^r you are wanted at Caserta. All their noddles are not worth your's. — Ever, ever your's, Emma. [Indorsed — at top of last page — ' Oct. 20, — 98.'] (7) The same to the same. October 26, 1798. My DEAR Friend, — I must say one word more to you. We have just had another letter. The Turk Signor has written to the King of England to beg his permission that you may wear the order or feather that he took out of his own Turban to decorate you, and ' The Austrian General now in command of the Neapolitan troops. - October 16. * The petit maitre, delaying, anti - English Foreign Minister — Nelson's aversion. 496 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON which is the sign of sovrainty, I do not exactly know how many thousand piastres it's worth, but unprecedented is the present. ' Viva il Turco,' says Emma. If I was King of England I wou'd make you the most noble present, Dicke Nelson, Marqicis Nile, Earl Aboukir, Vicount Pyramid, Baron Crocodile, and Prince Victory, that posterity might have you in all forms. Pray if the Turkish frigate comes to you, I beg you to bring it here, that I may have the pleasure of enter- taining the good Turban soul, and sending him home satisfied, and convinced that an English woman has a soul, for I fancy they don't beli[e]ve we have one, and shewing him our gratitude for the justice his master has done to the friend of our hearts, for so Sir William and I call you. Once more, God bless you, and beli[e]ve me ever your grateful! Emma Hamilton. (8) Lady Hamilton to Lord Nelson. Caserta, October 24,^ 1798. My dear Sir, — We have had our good Trowbridge here a day and a half. He is gone to Naples to send a frigate to you. I cannot let the first opertunity pass without writing to our dear, respectable Admiral, and we have been so happy with Trowbridge, in having such an occasion to speak of you as you deserve. I presented him and Captain Waller to the Queen. We staid with her two hours. Poor, dear Trowbridge was affected in seeing her with her children. He thought of his own. We dined with General Acton. How you are beloved, for not merely with her Majesty, but of the General's [party ?] you was our theme, and my full heart is fit to Burst with pleasure, when I hear your honoured name, but enough now for the day. I received yesterday a letter from Spencer Smith.^ Your present is a pelicia of Gibelini with a feather for your hat of Dymonds, large, most magnificent, and 2 thousand Zechins for the wounded men, and a letter to you from the Grand Signor, God bless him ! There is a frigate sent of[f] on purpose. We expect it here. I must see the present. How I shall look at it, smel it, taste it, to[ujch it, put the pelice over ray own shoulders, look in the glas, and say. Viva il Turk! And by express desire of his imperial Majesty, you are to wear these Badges of Honner, so we think it is an order he gives you, for you are particularly desired to wear them, and his thanks to be given to all the officers. God bless, or Mahomet bless, the old Turk ; I say, no longer Turk, but good Christian. The Queen says that after the English, she loves the Turks, and she [h]as reason ; for as to Viena, the ministers^ i This letter is printed in its order of arrangement by the British Museum. 2 English Consul at Constantinople, and brother of the Admiral. ' This refers to the merely defensive alliance with Naples, signed by Austria, July 16. I APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 497 deserve to be hanged ; and if Naples is saved, no thanks to the Emperor,^ for he is kindly leving his Father- in the lurch. We have been 2 days desperate on account of the weak and cool acting of the Cabinet of Viena. Tugood ^ must be gained. But the Emperor, oh, but he is a poor sop, a machme in the hands of his corrupted ministers. The Queen is in a rage, Belmonte,* expected back, not having been permited to go on their arrival here. Sunday last, 2 Corriers, one from London, one from Viena ; the first with the lovely news of a fleet to remain in the Mediter- ranean ; a treaty^ made of the most flattering kind for Naples. In short, everything amicable, friendly, and most truly honnerable. T'other from their dear son and daughter, cold, unfriendly, mis- trustful, frenchified, and saying plainly, help yourselves. How the dear Maria Carolina cried for joy at the one, and rage at the other. But Mack is gone to the army to prepare all to march emediately. And I fl,atter myself, I did much. For whilst the passions of the Queen [were] up and agitated, I got up, put out my left arm like you, spoke the language of truth to her, painted the drooping situation of this fine country, her friends sacrificed, her husband, children, and herself led to the Block; and eternal dishonour to her memory, after for once having been active, doing her duty in fighting bravely to the last, to save her Country, her Religion, from the hands of the rapacious murderers of her sister, and the Royal Family in France, that [sic] she was sure of being lost, if they were inactive, and their was a chance of being saved if they made use now of the day, and struck now while all minds are imprest with the Horrers their neighbours are suffering from these Robbers. In short, their was a Council, and it was determined to march out and help themselves ; and, sure, their poor fool of a son will not, cannot, but come out. He must bring a hundred and fifty thousand men in the Venetian State. The French cou'd be shut in between the two armys, italy cleared, and peace restored. I saw a person from Millan yesterday, who says that a small army wou'd do, for the Milanese have had enough of Liberty, whilst the nobility are starving at home, and ladies of the first fashion without a gown to their backs. Their are 2 hundred French common w — s, the finest clooths, coaches, sadlc-horses, and attendants dancing and w — ing every evening, and puting virtue out of countenance by their infamous publick prostitution and Libertinage. So you see, a little wou'd do. Now is the moment ; and endeed everything is going on as we cou'd wish. The King is [to] go in a few days, not to return.^ The regency is to be in the name of the Prince Royal, ^ Son-in-l2.w of Maria Carolina. - i.e. father-in-law. ^ Count Thugut, who in 1797 had negotiated the treaty of Campoformio for Austria with France. * i.e. ' Cialatone,' Prince Belmonfc. He had been minister for Naj^lcs at ^Tadri^^ in 1796. Mad negotiated the Franco-Neapolitan peace at I'aris, after long delays, in I797- He wa*; always ^ persona grata. •' Signed in December, and in marked contrast to Lord Grenville's recent attitude. ** This is a hitherto unknown historical fact. 2 I 498 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON but the Queen will direct all. Her head is worth a thousatid. I have a pain in my head, and must go take an airing. 3 o'clock. Alleg?-amente, Sir, am tres bien with Acton. The Emperor [h]as thought better, and will assist them. The war is to be declared Religious,^ but he will tell you more, for I am to go to the Palace,- and this must go off to-night. We are tied by the feet here. The Princess is got well again, after being in pain all one night ; and we all dressed in Gal[l]a 24 hours. So we must wait with patience. The King says it will not be these ten days. How should he know ? Prince Ventimiglia ^ desires his kind compli- ments. The King and Queen beg'd to be most kindly remembered to you. And Prince Leopold was yesterday contriving to escape, to get aboard a ship, to come to you, and cried himself sick because they wou'd not let him. But how every body loves and esteems you. 'Tis universal from the high to the low; and, do you know, I sing now nothing but the Conquering Hero. I send it you alter'd by myself and sang.'^ It comes very fine and affecting. I sang it twice to Trowbridge and Waller yesterday. God bless you, prosper and assist you in all you undertake ; and may you live Long, Long, Long, for the sake of your country, your King, your familly, all Europe, Asia, Affrica, and America, and for the scorge of France, but particularly for the happiness of Sir William and self, who Love you, admire you, and glory in your friendship. Complements to Hardy, Tyson, and Mr. Commins. My dear little fatherless Fady ; tell him to keep his head clean, and when he comes back I will be his mother as much as I can, comb, wash, and cut his nails, for with pleasure I lov'd to do it all for him. In London you are not abus'd. Alltho' 'tis known you are returned to Syracuse, you are called the Gallant Admiral, but their is not an idea that you will meet with them.^ What a day ^ This happened next year with Cardinal Ruffo as the General. " Some of her letters (cf. one in Sotheby's catalogues for May 1905) are headed ' Palazzo,' and were written there. " One of the King of Sardinia's court. ■* Her version is given in f. 25 of this series : — ' See the conquering Hero comes ! Sound the trumpets, beat the drums. Spoils prepare, the Laurel bring, Songs of Triumph to him sing. See our gallant Nelson comes, Sound the trumpet, beat the drums, Sports prepare, the Laurel bring, Songs of Triumph, Emma, sing ! Myrtle-wreath and roses twine To deck the Hero's brow divine.' 'Nelson's arrival from Egypt as conqueror.' ^ i.e. the French. The London jiapers received by this time had not yet got wind of the victory of August i. This portion of the letter is therefore perhaps put in wrong order in the British Museum. It should follow, I am inclined to think, on No. (3), though from the allusions to the Queen it seems of a date subsequent to Nelson's arrival, and just before Lady H.'s letter to Lady Nelson. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 499 will it be to England when the glorious news arrives ! Glad shou'd I be to be there for one moment. Your statue ought to be made of pure gold and placed in the middle of London. Never, never was there such a battle, and if you are not regarded as you ought, and I wish, I will renounce my country and become either a iMameluch or a Turk. The Queen yesterday said to me, the more I think on it, the greater I find it, and I feil such gratitude to the warrior, the glorious Nelson, that my respect is such that I cou'd fall at his honner'd feet and kiss them. You that know us booth, and how alike we are in many things, that is, I as Emma Hamil- ton, and she as Queen of Naples — imagine us booth speaking of you. We touch ourselves into terms of rapture, respect, and ad- miration, and conclude their is not such another in the world. I told her Majesty, we onely wanted Lady Nelson to be the female triajuncta in nno, for we all Love you, and yet all three differently, and yet all equally — if you can make that out. Sir William laughs at us, but he owns women have great Souls, at least his has. I wou'd not be a lukewarm friend for the world. I am no one's enemy, and unfortunately am difficult, and cannot make friendships with all. But the few friends I have, I wou'd die for them. And I assure you now, if things take an unfortunate turn here, and the Queen dies at her post, I will remain with her. I feil I owe it to her friendship uncommon for me. Thank God, the first week in November^ is near.^ I write in such a hurry, I am affraid you will be out of patience. But take the will for the deed, if I fail. Love Sir William and myself, for we love you dearly. He is the best husband, friend, I wish I could say father allso ; but I shou'd be too happy if I had the blessing of having children, so must be content. God bless you, prays most sincerely, Emma Hamilton. [The whole is difficult to read, being in faint and faded ink. Addressed to 'Rear Admiral Sir^ Horatio Nelson, K.B., &c., Vanguard.'] (9) Lady Hainilton to Lord Nelson. Caskrta, Friday, November 2, 1798. God knows whether this will meet you, my dear admiral. How- ever, I will risk and send you the latest papers. The King marches the 8th, thank God. I hope you will be here soon, and therefore will not say more^ only love and compliments to all, and beli[e]ve me ever, my dear, dear Admiral, your ever oblidged and sincere E. Hamilton. The Princess is not brought to bed. Oh dear! what can the matter be ! God bless you. ' Nelson returned to Naples from Leghorn, November 6, 179S. - These lines in the text are written within tlic sheet containing the address. 3 His peerage had not yet ijccn gazetted, hut, as mentioned, I take all this latter part of the letter to he misplaced in order and to follow No. (3), 500 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON (lo) Lady Hamilton to Lord Nelson. Saturday Evening, November 24, 1798. My dearest Lord,^ — How unhappy we are at the bad weather. How are you toss'd about ? Why did yon not come back ? We have not slept these 2 nights thinking on all your sufferings. God protect you ! I find some of the ships are this moment come to anchor, but what are these to us? If you was to come back, we are affraid you will be sick. Pray keep yourself well for our sakes, and do not go on shore ^Leghorn. There is no comfort Their for you. The army is marched. The Queen is in town, praying for their success. I have not seen her, for I have not been out since you went, nor can I for 2 or 3 days yet, as I have been ill, but am now getting better. As Sir William sends you a manifesto of the King, I will not. Your dear venerable father is to be made a bishop.- Oh, how happy I am at every mark of honour shewn you ! AVhy did Trowbridge go out in such weather? He knew it was not good. How is Tyson ? Compliments to all friends. May God bless you, my dear Lord. Ever your's sincerely and affectionately, Emma. (11) The same to the same. Sunday Evening."^ I write you 2 lines more to say I am better, but how are you ? Oh, this weather ! If we cou'd know how you are, and w[h]ere you are, we shou'd be happy. The King is to sleep at Frascati to-night, and to-morrow enters Rome. We have had 2 or 3 skirmishes. Moliterni, the prince with one eye, [hjas cut to pieces 2 hundred Poles. The clever Saxe [hjas taken Terrisena. To-day is to be the great battle of Velletria. God prosper them ! You have shewn them the example. The[y] perhaps may date their downfall from the glorious first of August. Everybody here prays for you. Even the Neapolitans say mass for you, but Sir William and I are so anxious that we neither eat, drink, nor sleep, and tell [5/V] you are safely landed and come back, we shall feel much [more mad ?]. We have been beset to tell the secret, but I wou'd have my flesh torn off by red- hot pinchers sooner than betray my trust. We send you one of your midshipmen left here by accident, Mr. Abrams ; pray don't punish him. Oh, I had forgot I wou'd never ask favours ; but you are so good, I cannot help it. I write in such a hurry, I am affraid you will not be able to read. We have got Josiah ; how glad I was to see him ! Lady K., Miss K.,^ and Carrol, and Josiah dined to-day with us, but, alas, your place at table was occupied by Lady K. I cou'd have cried, I felt so low-spirited. ' The first address lo him in this series by his new title of baron. ■^ A canard in the Eptrlish papers. ' i.e. November 25. * Knight. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 501 For God's sake, turn back soon. Pray, do you have no occasion to go on shore at Leghorn. God bless, protect and keep you from all danger, and restore you, my dear Lord, to your ever sincere and affectionate Emma Hamilton. Sir William's Love to you. (12) The same to the same. \No date. End of November. ] I congratulate you on the sword. ^ I beli[e]ve Mack is taken for sure. How are the generals? I have taken a Bath, am a little better, God protect you, my dear Lord ; ever your's sincerely, E. Hamilton. Make haste back. Emma and Sir William esteem you. B. — Lady Hamilton s Correspondence with Mrs. Williavi Nelson in February and March iSoi,^ and in the following November; together with two extracts from letters addressed to Lady Ha^nilton by Mrs. William Nelson {afterwards Sarah, Countess Nelson) in 1804 and 1805 respectively. (i) PiCCAnil.LY, Febrttary 19, 1801. Mv DEAR Mrs. Nelson, — I am so ill with a headaich that I cannot move, and I feil I cou'd not take leive of you and Mr. Nelson ; it wou'd be too much for my heart. I will send by the coach all your things and caps. Write to me, and beli[e]ve me, my dearest, ever dear friend, your's sincerely, Emma. (2) Friday, Noon {indorsed February 20, 1801]. I have been ill in bed, my dearest Mrs. Nelson ; I cou'd not take Leave of you. My soul was torn in pieces. It is such a pain 1 Given by ihe Grand-Duke of Tuscany. - Add. MS. 34,989, ff. 34-52. Sir William had wished to invite the Prince of Wales to dinner to hear Emma sing. Nelson and she both resolved not to allow this, and in the end she prevailed. At Nelson's request she sent for Mrs. William Nelson, his sister-in-law, to bear her company. She made two visits, as the correspondence opens when slie returned to Ilillborough for the first time. Eventually Nelson came up himself, and Emma describes his three days' sojourn in London before starting for the Baltic. The subsequent letters refer to Nelson's stay at MorlIS. 34,2740. This IcUer bears the marks of having been lingered perpetually. The circumstances which called it forth, of the Prince of Wales episode and the purchase by Nelson at Christie's of Romney's 'St. Cecilia,' have been fully detailed in my text. It was presented to the British Museum in 1892. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 517 we shall have peace with the northern powers if we dixe Just in our desires. Will you have the goodness to carry the enclosed after you have sealed it to Mrs. Maurice Nelson, and your own dear generous [heart] will say every kind thing for me. She shall be fixed where she pleases, and with every comfort in this world, and ever be considered as my honoured sister-in-law. I feel my dear Brother's confidence, and she shall feel he has not mistaken me. Tell Mrs. William Nelson how much I esteem her for all her kind- ness, and that I shall never forget her complying with my request in staying with you, although 1 hope it has been truly pleasant to herself; to Mrs. Denis say every kind thing you please for her letter. Tell her I want not to conquer any heart if that which I have conquered is happy in its lot. I am confident, for the conqueror is become the Co?iqt(ered. I want but one true heart. There can be but one love, although many real well-wishers. Ever and Ever your dear and truly affectionate Friend, Nelson and Bronte. Best regards to Dr. and Mrs. William. [Sealed with a classical intaglio of Lady H.'s head in black.] (2) {a) Extract from a letter from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilfo7(^ ''Medusa at Sea,' August 24, 1801, sealed with lur luad. A portion of the last sheet has beeti torn away} So little is newspaper information to be depended upon, that on Thursday although with a -f , I was not a quarter of an hour on shore. I went to Parker, from him to the Admiral, from the Admiral to Parker, did not stay five minutes, was very low, did not call upon any of the wounded, nor at the Three Kings, got into the boat, and have not since been out of the Medusa. If I had staid ashore, I should not have had Trevor on board. The information 1 have received about Flushing is not correct, and I cannot get at the Dutch, therefore I shall be in the Downs I trust on Wednesday evening, ready and happy to receive you. Whatever Sir Thomas Troubridge may say, I feel L have no real friends out of your house. How I am praying for the wind to carry me and to bring me to your sight. I am tired at not being able to get at the damned rascals ; but they are preparing against me in every quarter, there- fore they cannot be preparing for an invasion. I agree with you ; fight them if they come out, so I will; anfl reserve myself for it. I believe the enemy attaches much more importance to my life than our folks ; the former look up to me with awe and dread, the latter fix not such real importance to my existence. I send this under cover to Parker in case you are not come, that he may send it to London. I am making some arrangements and shall be across directly. With my kindest regards to Sir William, believe me, . . . ' Sotheby's catalogue for the summer of 1904. 5i8 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON (2) {b) Extract from a letter ' from Lord Nelson to Lady LLamilton, ^Amazon, September 23, 1801/ regarding Merton. My dear Emma, I received your kind letters last evening, and in many parts they pleased and made me sad, so life is chequered, and if the good predominates then we are called happy. I trust the farm will make you more so than a dull London life, make what use you please of it, it is as much yours as if you bought it, therefore if your relative cannot stay in your house in town surely Sir William can have no objection to your taking [your relation] to the farm ; the pride of the Hamiltons surely cannot be hurt by settling down with any of your relations. You have surely as much a right for your relations to come into the house as his could have, &c. The vagabond that stole your medal will probably be hanged, unless Mr. Varden will swear it is not worth 40 shillings, which / dare say he may do with a safe consciefice. I should not wish it to be brought into a Court of Law, as the extraordinary nature of the medallion will be noticed. I am sure you will not let any of the Royal blood into your house. They have the Impudence of the devil, etc. — Ever yours faithfully. (3)- Lord Nelsofi to A. Davison, relating to Sir William LLamiltons death. [Piccadilly], Wednesday, w o'clock {April 6, 1803]. My dear Davison, — Our dear Sir William died at 10 minutes past Ten this morning in Lady Hamilton's arms without a sigh or a struggle. Poor Lady H. is, as you may expect, desolate. I hope she will be left properly, but I doubt. — Every yours most affection- ately. (4) Extract from a letter frofu the same to the safne, indorsed May [4?], 1803, which after saying that the will is to be read at 11 d clock this jnornitig, continues : — ... I think it will be proper to read the deed of gift,^ especi- ally as the family will be present, or it may be supposed that Mr. C. Greville gives Lady Hamilton the furniture. (5) Extract from a letter from Lord Nelson to Lady Hamilio7i headed ' Victory, August 24, 1803 '■* Do you know the King never knew of my wish to resign Bronte; it is said, Acton dare not tell him, and now, I fear, the * Sotheby's catalogue, July 8, 1905. - Eg. MS. 2240, ft. 157, 164. ^ Lady Hamilton in 1801 had sold jewels to buy the furniture, which was therefore assigned to her by her husband. * Sotheby's catalogue of May 17, 2905. ] APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 519 French will have Sicily, so that I shall be well off. If that does not happen^ I shall hope to get regularly ;^2ooo a year — that will be a pretty addition to our housekeeping. Mr. A'Court told me that Castelcicala is as great a favorite as ever with the Queen, and that if Acton went away she would try and have him Prime Minister — then I believe the kingdom would be well governed. . . . Admiral Campbell is on board ... he has made a large fortune in the Channel Fleet — so much the better; the more we take from the French, the less they have, and the sooner, I hope, we shall have peace . . . whenever young Paddy [Fady, of the 1798 correspondence?] comes, he shall be promoted, &c. (6) Copy of a letter from Lord Nehfl?i to Lady Hamilton} 'Amazon,' October 14, 1801. My dearest Friend, — To-morrow week all is over — no thanks to Sir Thomas. I believe the fault is all his, and he ought to have recollected that I got him the Medal of the Nile. Who upheld him when he would have sunk under grief and mortification ? Who placed him in such a situation in the Kingdom of Naples that he got by my public Letters, Titles, the Colonelcy of Marines, Diamo7id Boxes, from the King of Naples, 1000 ounces in money, for no expenses that I know of? Who got him ^^500 a year from the King of Naples? and however much he may abuse him, his pension will be regularly paid. Who brought his character into notice? Look at my public Letters. Nelson, that Nelson that he now Lords it over. So much for gratitude. I forgive him, but, by God, I shall not forget it. He enjoys shewing his power over me. Never mind ; altogether it will shorten my days. The day is very bad — blows, rains, and great sea. My complaint has returned from absolutely fretting; and was it not for the kindness of all about me, they, damn them, would have done me up long ago. I am anxiously waiting for your letters ; they are my only comfort, for they are the only friendly ones I receive. Poor Captn. Somer- ville is on board ; himself, wife, and family, makes 20, without a .servant, and has only ;i{!^ioo a year to maintain them. He has been begging me to intercede with the Admiralty again ; but I h.ave been so rebuffed, that my spirits are gone, and the ^'■r^rt/'Troubridge has what we call cowed the spirits of Nelson ; but I shall never forget it. He told me if I asked anything more that I should get nothing, I suppose alluding to poor Langford. No wonder I am not well. Noon. Your kind letters are just come, and have given me great comfort, Pray tell Sir William that I will write to him this day, but certainly to-morrow. I have much to do from Admiralty orders, letters, etc. I rejoice at your occupation. Live pretty, ' 'Phis letter has been printed by Pcttigrew, vol. ii. p, 218. But in this original there are a few variations, and as ii is of interest, I reprint it by kind permission of my friend Mrs. Hampden of Ewelme. 520 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON and keep a pig. Have you done anything about the Turnip field ? Say every thing that is kind for me to Sir William, Mrs. Cadogan, etc. I have delivered your message to Sutton and Bedford. You may rely on a visit. — Ever, my dear friend, your affectionate Nelson & Bronte. Half sea-sick. I thank you for the Rev. Dr.'s letter to Mrs. N., but going to Swaffham is mentioned 7 times & in the Postscript. It put me in mind of the directions for the Cardinal.^ I have laughed, but she is a good wife for him, or he would have been ruined long ago. His being a Doctor is nonsense. But I must write to-morrow, and congratulate him, or else the fat will be in the fire. — For ever yours, N. & B. (7) Extracts from fivo letters frofn the sa?ne to the same of May 4, 1805, * Victory ^^ and August r8, 1805, ' Victory^ off Spithead!^ {a) Your poor dear Nelson is, my dearest beloved Emma, very very unwell, after a two years hard fag it has been mortifying the not being able to get at the Enemy, as yet I can get no confirmation about them, at Lisbon this day week they knew nothing about them, but it is now generally believed that they are gone to the West Indies. My movements must be guided by the best Judg- ment I am able to form. John Bull may be angry, but he never had any ofificerwho has served him more faithfully, but Providence, I rely, will yet crown my never failing exertions with success, and that it has only been a hard trial of my fortitude in bearing up against untoward events. You, my own Emma, are my first and last thoughts, and to the last moment of my breath they will be occupied in leaving you independent of the world, and all I long in the world that you will be a kind and affectionate Father to my dear [a word obliterated — 'own'?] daughter Horatia, but my Emma your Nelson is not the nearer being lost to you for taking care of you in case of events which are only known when they are to happen and [to] an all wise Providence, and I hope for many years of comfort with you, only think of all you wish me to say and you may be assured it exceeds if possible your wishes. May God protect you and MY DEAR Horatia, prays ever your most faithful and affec- tionate, etc. etc. I have not heard from my own Emma since last April by Abbe Campbell, but I trust my Emma is all what her Nelson wishes her to be. I have brought home no honors for my Country, only a most faithful servant, nor any Riches, that the Administration care 1 i.e. Ruffo. ^ Sotheby's catalogues : (i) May 11, 1905 ; (2) summer 1904. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 521 to give to others, but I have brought home a most faithful & honourable & beloving heart to my Emma & my dear Horatia. — May Heaven bless you, etc. etc. (8) From the same to the sa?ne. ' Victory ' okk Carlisle Bay,^ Barbadoks, Jwte 4, 1805. My own dearest beloved Emma, — Your own Nelson's pride and delight. I find myself within six days of the Enemy, and I have every reason to hope that the 6th of June will immortalize your own Nelson, your fond Nelson. May God send me Victory, and us a happy and speedy meeting. Adl. Cochrane is sending home a Vessel this day, therefore only pray for my success, and my Laurels I shall with pleasure lay at your feet, and a Sweet Kiss will be an ample reward for all your faithful Nelson's hard fag, for Ever and Ever I am your faithful, ever faithful and affectionate Nelson & Bronte. The Enemy's fleet and army are supposed to have attacked Tobago and Trinidada, and are now about landing. [Addressed ' Lady Hamilton, Merton, Surrey. Nelson & Bronte.'] (9) Omissions - made by Fettii^re'cV ifi his iranscriptioji of Lerd Nelsofi's letter to Lady Uatni/tofi, ' Victory,' Au^^ust 27, 1804, cf. voL it. pp. 420 et seq. (No. i) . . . ' May 19th. I do not' . . . here insert — ' My dear Emma.' (No. 2) 'I hope we shall live many years.' . . . here insert — ' And spend it together ; the very thought of such bliss delights me.' (No. 3) ' / do not expect much from it, never mind ' . . . here insert — 'We shall never want with prudence.' (No. 4) ' This goes by Triumph.' . . . here insert — ' Gibbs sends you a piece of Palermo silk, which I have requested Sir Robt. Barlow to send up from Portsmouth. He says there is ' From the original, kindly lent by Mrs. Hampden. It is uncited by Pettigrew or elsewhere. ' Kindly communicated by Mrs. Hampden. 522 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON nothing else worth your acceptance ; he appears full of gratitude for your unremitted goodness to his daughter.' (No. 5) ' I will do it when I come home ' . . . here insert — ' Mrs. Cadogan's account of your dress made me laugh. God in heaven bless you, my own dear Emma, and be assured that my only attachment is to you and at present my dear Horatia.' (No. 6) ' You will see ' . . . here insert — ' Your own dear Nelson and Bronte.' E. — Other New Letters from Lord Nelson. ( I ) Extract from a letter ^ from Lord Nelson to the French Commander at Malta, October 1798. In addressing to you this letter, containing my determination respecting the French now in Malta, I feel confident that you will not attribute it either to insolence or impertinent curiosity, but to a wish of having my sentiments clearly understood. The present situation of Malta, I am told, is this, the inhabitants are in posses- sion of all the Islands except the town which is in your hands, and that the port is blocked by a Squadron belonging to his Britannick Majesty. My objects are to assist the people of Malta in forcing you to abandon the Island, that it may be delivered into the hands of its lawful Sovereign, and to get possession of the Gme. Tell, Diana, and Justice. To accomplish these objects as speedily as possible I offer that, on the delivery of the French ships to me, that all the Troops and Seamen now in Malta shall be landed in France without the condition of their being prisoners of war. . . . If my offers are rejected, or the French ships make their escape, notwithstanding my vigilance, I declare I will not enter or join in any capitulation which the General may, hereafter, be forced to enter into with the inhabitants of Malta, nor will I ever permit any which may be like the present, much less will I intercede for the lives or forgiveness of those who have betrayed their country. I beg leave to assure you that this is the determination of a British Admiral, etc. (2) Extract from a letter'^ regarding Malta from Lord Nelson to Sir James St. Clair Erskine, Naples, 2yd July 1799. As Admiral Duckworth sails this day for Minorca, he will inform you of all which is passing in this country, respecting the removal * Sotheby's catalogue, July 8, 1905. - Ibid. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 523 of Colonel Graham and the garrison at Messina. It may be attended with the most fatal effect. . . . Malta and the Northern coasts must have some attention paid to them, and I know it is His Majesty's pleasure that I should pay such attention to the safety of H.S. My. and his Kingdom that nothing shall induce me to risk those objects of my special care. (3) Extract from a letter'^ regarding Minorca and his policy from the same to the same, Naples, August 2, 1799. I have just received your letter by the Brig. It is very natural you should look to the Island of Minorca, so do I, and will take care that no superior fleet shall annoy it, but many other countrys are also entrusted to my care, and I am endeavouring so to divide my force that all may have security. (4) (a) Extract from a letter^ from Lord Nelson to Lady Llamiltoji ^San Josef \Brixham\ February 11, 1 80 1 . ' Mv DEAR Lady, — I was prepared on reading your first letter to have wrote a most affectionate letter, but your last has been so truly unkind that I can only recal to mind it is very easy to find a stick if you are inclined to beat your dog, therefore it is no wonder you should endeavour from every word of mine to find cause for an excuse [cut away here] him who will never forget you, but to the last moment of his existence pray to God to give you happiness, and to remove from this ungrateful world, your old friend. Nelson & Bronte. {b) Extract from a letter^ from the same to the same, February 14, i8oi. I doubt whether a boat can get on shore. But we are going to try. Trowbridge is just come to say it is impossible, there- fore you must be content with my assurance that I write every day. Pray send the enclosed to Mrs. Thompson and assure her of my unalterable attachment to her and her friend. I trust my dear Lady to your doing me full justice and to make her dear mind at ease for ever, for ever and ever. Yours faithful . . . Sunday noon. It continues to blow so hard, and the sea is so very high, that I scarcely expect the possibility of getting a boat with this weather; she would be lost in an instant, but in fair or foul weather, at sea or on shore, I am ever for ever yours, etc. ^ Sotheby's catalogue, July 8, 1905. Both these relate to the Prince of W.iles episode. - Ibid. s Ibid. 524 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON F. — Supplementary Letters. ( I ) From the Hon. C. F. Greville to Lord Hobart or Lord Pet ham {Foreign Secretaries), April 12, 1803.^ My Lord, — I believe it to be consistent with propriety to take the earliest opportunity of returning to His Majesty the Red Ribbon which Sir Wm. Hamilton wore, and I propose to do so to-morrow. I hope your Lordship will not consider it otherwise than respect- ful in me on this occasion to refer you to my communication of Sir Wm. Hamilton's feeling to Lord Grenville at the period Mr. Paget was appointed to supersede him without previous notice. A few days before his death, he said to me that the King's regard for him, and his attachment to his Sovereign, had been founded on the solid ground of unvaried affection, respect, and Truth, and he had never connected the slights of ministers with the direction of his Sovereign. He added that in a few days his death would bring to the consideration of ministers whether the payment of one-half of the debt incurred by Public Convulsions, and the usual pension for the short period he could be expected to enjoy it, from the time it was granted, would be considered as a close of reward for 36 years' foreign Service, and the deterioration of his private fortune; that he had not reserved, but left to the feehngs of ministers the suggestion I had made to Lord Grenville of his wishes, on the pre- cedents which then occurred, that a token of respect to Lady Hamilton might be given by a reversion of a small part of the pension. It does not become me to withold [sic] his dying conversa- tion, and it cannot be for me to urge the propriety of your Lord- ship recommending such mark of his Majesty's kindness to the memory of my dear departed Friend, when I know that the records of your office confirm the Testimony of their Sicilian Majesties, by letter as well as by their ministers, of circumstances peculiarly distinguished and honourable to her, and at the same time of high importance to the public Service. — I am, etc. (2) The Rev. A. J. Scotfs Account of the Battle of Trafalgar in a letter^ to his uncle. October 27, 1 805. VICTORY. Mv DEAR Uncle, — On the 21st instant the combined fleet of thirty-three sail of the line were completely defeated by our twenty- seven sail of the line. The enemy were extended to lee-ward, and in as good a line as they could well form with so little wind as there was. Our fleet in two divisions went down all sail set, steering-sails,^ &c.; the wind right aft and the swell forcing the ships ^ From the original in the writer's possession. 2 Privately and kindly communicated. ' ? 'studding-sails,' or stunsails. APPENDIX: NEW LETTERS 525 down. Lord Nelson in the Victory led one division, Admiral Collingwood the other. The first cut through between the enemy's ninth and tenth ships, the latter between the nineteenth and twentieth. Never was so complete a defeat. There has been a heavy gale of wind ever since the night of the action, the wind dead on a lee-shore, and we have been lying a wreck part of the time ; consequently we know nothing of particular liamages, or all the enemy's ships might have been taken. I believe there were at least nineteen taken — two three deckers, one called a four-decker (the largest ship ever built), the Spanish Admiral Gravina, the French Admiral Villeneuve, etc. Having told you the news, which will make you rejoice for your country, what will you think of me who detest this victory? It has deprived me of my beloved and adored friend. I knew not until his loss how much I loved him. He died as the battle finished, and his last effort to speak was 7nade at the ?noment of joy for victory. I cannot talk more to you about it. I hope soon to see you. I shall attend my dear Lord's remains, and act when I reach England as his executors may direct. Let me find a letter from you at Portsmouth. This ship must go home — the mizenmast gone, the main and foremast cut to pieces, and only standing by miracle, &c. It still blows hard, but we are in tow by the Neptune, and hope to get the Gut of Gibraltar open to-morrow morning. Possibly we shall rig a good jurymast at Gibraltar, and then go home. I do not say much of my loss ; // is beyond all utterance. I, of course, now retire. (3) Account by the same of Lord Nelson's death ifi a letter'^ to George Rose. H.M.S. 'Victory,' December 22, 1805. Mv DEAR Sir, — In answer to your note of the loth inst., which, forwarded by way of Chatham, I received this morning, it is my intention to relate everything Lord Nelson said in which your name was in any way connected. He lived about three hours after receiving his wound, was perfectly sensible the whole time, but compelled to speak in broken sentences, which pain and suffering prevented him always from connecting. When I first saw him he was apprehensive he should not live many minutes, and told me so ; adding in a hurried, agitated manner, though with pauses, ' Remember me to Lady Hamilton — remember me to Horatia — remember me to all my friends — Doctor, remember me to Mr. Rose ; tell him I have made a will, and left Lady Hamilton and Horatia to my country.' He repeated his remem- brance to Lady Hamilton and Horatia, and told me to mind what he said several times. Gradually he became less agitated, and at last calm enough to ask (uicstions about what was going on. ' Privately and kindly communicated. 526 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON This led his mind to Captain Hardy, for whom he sent and inquired with great anxiety, exclaiming aloud he would not believe the captain was alive unless he saw him. He grew agitated at the captain's not coming, lamented his being unable to go on deck and do what was to be done, and doubted every assurance given him of the captain being safe on the quarter-deck. At last the captain came, and he instantly grew more composed, listened to his report about the state of the fleet, directed hmi to anchor, and told him he should die, but observed he should live half-an-hour longer. ' I shall die, Hardy,' said the Admiral. ' Is your pain great, sir ? ' ' Yes, but I shall live half-an-hour yet. Kiss me. Hardy.' The captain knelt down by his side and kissed him. Upon the captain leaving him to return to the deck, Lord Nelson exclaimed very earnestly more than once, ' Hardy, if I live I'll bring the fleet to an anchor— if I live I'll anchor, if I live I'll anchor' — and this was earnestly repeated even when the captain was out of hearing. I do not mean to tell you everything he said. After this interview the Admiral was perfectly tranquil, looking at me in his accustomed manner when alluding to any prior discourse : ' I have not been a great sinner, Doctor,' said he. ' Doctor, I was right. I told you so. George Rose has not yet got my letter — tell him ' He was interrupted here by pain. After an interval he said, 'Mr. Rose will remember — don't forget, Doctor— mind what I say.' There were frequent pauses in his conversation. Our dearly beloved Admiral otherwise mentioned your name indeed very kindly, and I will tell you his words when I see you ; but it was only in the two above instances he desired you should be told.— I have the honour to be, etc. A. J. Scott. (4) Extract from Lady Hamilton s letter to Sir William Scott, of March 22, [1809], when she is at ' 1^6 Bond Street.' After mentioning that a friend wishes to consult Sir William, that she is only in town till Saturday, and dines with her ' dear, good Goldsmids on Friday,' she thus concludes : — I have suffered much, but I hope yet all will be right. I feel it a comfort that in my splendor I did good. I served my country, and many basqued [sic] in my sunshine. But my only ambition now is that I shall fulfill Nelson's last request, take care of his Horatia, make my mother comfortable, pay everyone what is their due, act honourably and right, and be esteemed by good and sensible men. Do you, my dear sir, think well of and love your ever grateful and aff"ectionate Emma Hamilton. I N DEX Battles and Treaties will hi found ztndir these separate headings. Abercorn, Marquis of, 70; (1791). 133" 135; one of the witnesses at Lady Ham- , ikon's wedding, 136; (1803), Sir Wil- liam's will, 399; (1808), Emma's claims, 445 ; parties at, 450. Marchioness of (1801), 357; (1807), invites Emma, 439. Abrams, Lieutenant, App. 500. Abrial, Commissary (1799, Jan. 22), his part .in the Januarius procession, 267. A'court, Mr., App. 519. Acquaviva, Beatrice [Neapolitan nun] (1787), and Lady Hamilton, 15 n. 6, IIO-II. Acton, Sir John Francis Edward (i737- 1811), antecedents and character of, 123-125; his early links with Hamilton, 124-127; his English, 198 w. 2; [Premier at the Neapolitan Court] (1736-1811), 8 ; (1772), 65 «. 2 ; (1779). 65 ; (1786), and Lady H., 90, 103; (1788), 120 n. 3; (1789), 127; pro-Spanish, 140; (1791), his change of tack and association with Hamiltons : his desire for an Anglo- Sicilian rapprochement, 140-143 ; his appeal to Great Britain v. France, 142 ; his fury at Jacobinism which threatens establishments : a born bureaucrat, 143, 265 ; (1793), on critical peace junc- tures, 144 n. 2 ; (1792), Star Chamber, 145; (1793), 'Junta,' 153; Nelson's first arrival, its effects on, 163, 171 ; (1794), 173 n. 2 ; on the French designs, ib. n. 6;" his novelties in inquisition, 174 ; h's wish to engross business, 188 ; (1795-6), complains of lukewarmness of Austria, Tuscany, and England, 182 and seq. ; on Franco-Hispanian con- spiracy, 185 ; in close correspondence with Hamilton about, 186 ; competes with Hamilton in transmitting secret despatches to England, 188 complains of Grenville's faintlieartedness, 189 ti.2, 198 ; on the Queen's resentment v. Spain, 189 n. i ; for a brief space veers towards King's pro-Spanish atti- tude, 189, 191 ; fears Naples' isolation, and returns with zest to the Queen's pro-English attitude, ib. ; joins with Hamilton in urging Britain's co-opera- tion, ih. ; (1797), presses England for Mediterranean squadron, 197 ; confers with Hamiltons and Klliot, 197; his bureaucratic bent is relieved by Queen's changed policy, zT-. ; his representation, 198 ; (1798), correspondence with Ham- ilton, 198; begs Hamilton to procure aid, 198 ; and Queen, 199; his action in the critical council of June 17, 206 and seq. ; and Malta, n. i ib. ; signs 'order' in King's name, 206-207; a 'credential,' 206; a 'royal despatch," 217-218 ; ignorant even in August that Nelson had been provisioned, 206 ;/. 5, 216, App. 486 ; his antipathy to Gallo (q.v.), 214; and instructions to port governors in Sicily, 216 n. 4, 217 ; to be kept in dark with the King, as to the Queen's private and secret nnssive to Nelson, 220, 222 ?i. 4 ; (Oct.), gained by Emma, 231 ; on Neapolitan troops, 239 n. 5 ; (Nov.), with King in Rome, 241 ; (Dec), misjudges Neapolitan crisis, 244 ; plans for royal escape altered, 247; (Dec. 21), six communi- cations between him and Hamilton. 248 ; and Nelson, ib. ; still doubts danger, ib. 248 ; and dallies, 249 ; orders of embarkation, and ridiculous precedence, 249, 250 ; on the voyage, 257, 262; and Malta ('/.''), 272/?. 2 ; (1799), and Lady H.,276; (June 17), 289 ; (June 21), 293 ; (June 25), letters to Nelson regarding Ruffo and Neapoli- tan affairs, 298 ; (June 26), to Hamilton, 303; (July 9), arrives with King in Naples; (Sept.), quarrels with Ham- ilton, 314 and n. 4 ; (1803), and Bronte, 402 n. 3; (1804), dismissed, 410 and >i. 2 ; (1804), married, thinks of coming to England, 418. Acton, Lady, 250. Addington [statesman] (1801), 364, 388 ; (1803), 401, 408; (1813), 172; (1814), 467. .■Mbert, Prince [of Najiles] (1798), 250 ; death of, 257. Amalie, Princess, 115 n. i. .\mato, Tommaso (1794), executed. 174 America (1789), 128. Amherst, Lord [ambassador], 322 «. 2. .\ncaster. Duchess of (1793). 154. .■\ndrcas [painter] (1786), 103 n. 1. .Andrews, Miss. 157. Aprilc [musician], 15. 627 528 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Aidinghelli [litterateur], 121. Argyll, Duchess of [Miss Gunning], 15, 133; (1789). her affection for Emma, and its results, 127; (1790), death, 130. Arnstein [banker], 332. Artois, Count (1791), 131. Ashburner, Miss [see ' Perconti, Eliza']. Astley, 'Jack,' 47, Athol, Duke of, 370. Aurora, Commandant (1799. June 25), 302 n. 4. Ausberg, Prince (1792), I49- Austria, the Hapsburgs' historical ambi- tions for, in Italy, 113, 114; (1789). 126; (1791), 138, 141 ; venality,?^, and n. 2; (1792), Prussian alliance, 144; (1795-8), lukewarm in resisting France, 182 and seg. ; worsted in campaign, 189 ; bound by treaties to desist, 183 [see 'Treaties,' Campoformio, Tolen- tino] ; her cessions to France, 196 n. i ; Venice and, ib. ; (1798), Acton on, 198 ; negotiating with Naples as to a possible but limited and defensive alli- ance, 203, 204, 205, 206, 213, 216 and «. 4, 230, 231; (Dec), refuses aid to Naples, 243, 245 ; soon herself in extremis, 245 ; (1799, March), alliance with Russia, Turkey, and Naples, 279 ; (April), prepares to drive French from North Italy, 290; (October), demands Russian troops at Malta, 315 ; (1B03), third coalition, 402 ; (1810), 454. Baker [' Baccher'] (1799). 272. Ball, Sir Alexander, and Lady Hamilton, 19 «. I ; (1798), nursed by her, 230; ordered to Malta, 234 ; (1799), 273, 276, 279 ; (June 25), 302 ; (September), 314 ; (December), 315 n. 5; calls Emma 'sister,' as his companion in Grand Cross order of Malta, 316 ; to Nelson, 317; (1800, March), invites the Ham- iltons, 321 ; (1802), letter to Emma, 398. Banks, Sir Joseph [scientist], on Lady Hamilton (1787). loi, 119 ti. i ; (1791). 130; (1795). 5. 16; (1798). on Jacob- inism, 241 ; (1800), 335 and n. 3. [sculptor], 5, 7- Banti [prima donna] (1787), 104 and «. 2, HI n. 3; (1801), 343. 356- Barclay, Sir R. (1805), 434 and n. 2; (1808), 449. Barham, Lord (1805), and Lady Nelson, 432. , Baring (1810), 454- Barlow, Miss [see Hamilton, the first Lady]. Sir R., -^pp. 521. Barret, G. [artist], 57. Barry [artist], 21. Reverend Dr. E., 136. Bartoldi, 250. Basseville (1793). i52- Bathyaui, Count, 332. Battles — Calvi, 166, 175 ; Copenhagen, 242 ; Finisterre, 422 ; Froisinone, 239 ; Jemappes, 144; Longwy, ?d. ; Magonza, 153; Nile, 223 and seq., 242, 258; Padua, 27q ; Ponte Delia Maddalena, 291, 293; St. Vincent, 196; Toulon, 153, 157, 170 ; Trafalgar, 242, 417-429 ; Valmy, 144 ; Velletri, 240. Bausan, Captain (1798), 258. Beatty, Dr., 475. Beauclerk, Lady Diana, 67, 122 ; letter to Lady Hamilton, 166 n. i. Charles (1793), 165. Beauharnais. Eugene (1797), attacks Papal guard, 197. I'jL'ckford, William (1760-1844), and Lady Hamilton, 16 ; on Lady H. (1791), 133, 13s ; (1792), 144. 148 ; (1794). 5 ; (1800), 14, 230, 335, 338 ; insincerity, ib. and n. 2; (1801), 230; inaccuracy of, 171 ; (1802), peerage scheme, 389- 39'->- Euphemia, 389. Bedford, Captain, App. 520. Belmonte, Prince ['Galatone'] (1779), 123; (1795-6), his part as Neapolitan ambassador at Madrid in forwarding information regarding Spain, 185 and seq. ; secretly negotiates Franco-Nea- politan compact in Paris, 188 and seq., 190 «. 6; (1798), 199; (1798, Dec), his part in preparing royal flight, 247, 248, 250 ; on voyage, 257 ; (i8oo), his fare- well to Lady H. , 329 ; App. 497, Princess (1804), 410. Bentinck, Lord William [ambassador], 99 ?i. 4, 116, 322 n. 2. • Lady E. (1805), 431 «. 2. Berri, Duke of (1803), 105 n. 5, 393 n. 2. Berry, Captain, 345 ; (1801), 367. Berthier, General (1797), despatched by Napoleonic. Rome, 197 ; (1798, Novem- ber), 239. Bessborough, Lady (1793), 122, 155. Bianchi, Francesco [composer] (1809), 451. 454- Mrs., 451. Billington, Mrs. [prima donna], 24 ; (1801), 342; at Merton, 386, 416; (1809), 451 ; (1810), 454. Blackburn, Mr. and Mrs. (1801), 368 and 11, 2. Blackwood, Captain the Hon. H. (1805), 427. 431- , ., Bolton, Ann, 413 ; letters to Lady Hamil- ton, 415, 440; (1806-8), constantly at Merton, 439-441 ; (1808), 444. Eliza, 413, 416 ; (i8o6-8), at Merton, 439- Emma Horatia, christened, 412 ». 2; (1806-7), 439- family, the, 405 ; (1806 and after), Emma's warm friends, 439, 449 ; (181 1- 1812), invite Lady Hamilton, 456, 458. Horace, 453. Lady (1809), her letter to Lady Hamilton, 452. INDEX 529 Bolton, Thomas [the younger], 416; (1805), at Merton, 421, 424. Mrs. T. [Nelson's sister], 158 n. i ; (1800), 334; (1802), at Merton, 386; (1803), 402, 408; (1805), letter of con- dolence to Lady Hamilton, 431 ; on Lady Nelson to Emma, 432 //. 3, 433 71. 2 ; (1806 and after), believes Emma will obtain justice, 440; (1809), 460; (1810), to Emma on Mrs. Cadogan's death, 453 ; her own death (1813), 461, 464. Captain Sir William (1803), mar- riage, 403 ; (1810), begs Lady Hamil- ton s influence, 455. Boothby, Sir Brooke, 16 n. i ; and Emma's voice, 104 71. 3. Bourbon, Duke of (1803), 105 « 5. Bowen, T. [contractor, of Merton and Portman Square], 41, 383. Captain T. (June 1798), staying at Hamiitons' as intermediary, 210 71. 2 ; takes Emma's letter to Nelson, 210; promoted through Hamiitons, ib. 214; promoted, 227. Captain [his brother] (1797), 210?/. 2. Boyd, Lady, 65. Boydell, Alderman, 44. Braham [singer] (1802 and 1805), 391, Bristol, Frederick Augustus, Earl of, and Bishop of Derry (1730- 1803) ; his characteristics, 130, 177-180 ; (1778), 123 71. 2; (1789), 127 71. 4; (1791), 130; (1793). 178; (1794). on Medici's treason, 174 71. 2 ; (1795), 141 V. 2 ; and Lady Hamilton (1794), 16, 22, 178 ; and Countess Lichtenau {g'.v.), i8o;(i798),i7;(i799), 279; (1800), 328 ; (1803), death, 411 ; App. 481. Brooke, Lord, 92. Bruce, Lord (1769), 66 «. i. Brueys, Admiral (1798), killed in Nile battle, 223. Brunswick, Duke of, 144. Budd, Dr., 4,^. Buonaparte, Joseph (1797), 196. Louis (1798). "-39- Napoleon, 113, 122, 137, 153 n, S; (1793). 167; (1794). 175: Direc- toire, paves way for Spanish rapproche- TTtent, 185; (1795-7), 182; coalition against, weakened, 183; his long chapter of Italian and Austrian siic- cesfes, 184 ; republicanises Liguriaand Romagna. 189, 191 w. i, 196, 201; (1797), exploits Roman Jacobins, 197 ; boasts of republicanising two Sicilies, 197 ; and Acton, 173 w. 3, 198; (1805), his letter to Maria Carolina, 173 «. 3 ; (1798), Epyptian expedition, 201 and seq. ; the Suvan/s, 202 >/. i ; reassures Sicily and bribes Malta, 204 ; objects ■n, 207 71. 5; significance of, 213; quits, 214 ; correspondence intercepted a week after Nile battle, 223; its nature, 20271. i ; his republican ardour. 241 ; designs 011 Naples, 244, 263 ; (1799), returns to France, 315 ; at Marseilles, id. 71. 4 ; (1801), 344 ; (1801), 366-7; (July), 375; (1803), breaks the truce, 402 ; (1804), dictates to Maria Carolina, 410 and 71. 2 ; Boulogne flotilla, 410, 411 ; (1810), 454 ; (1814), 468. Burchardt, General (December, 1798), 244. Burdett, Sir Francis (1810), 454. Burke, Edmund, 142. Burlot, Marquis, 153. Byng, Admiral, 306. Byres, 37. Byron, Lord, cited, 3, 161. Cadogan, Mrs. \nie Mary Kidd of Hawarden, Lady Hamilton's mother], 15. 23. 40, 41. 42, 44. 56. 84 ; (1785), 85, 86, 90, 94; (1787), 100; (1788), 1291(1798), 229; (Dec. 22), 252, 253, 254 ; (Dec. 24), 'an angel,' 257 ; (1799), and Nelson, 281; and Emma, 255; has a secretax}', 286 71. I ; (July), Nelson's letter to, 308; (1800, June-Nov.), homeward journey, 329, 333; (1800), 342; and Emma 'Carew' {q.v.), 337 71. 3, 351, 367 and n. 2; Merton, 379, 380; (1803), Sir William's bequest, 400 ; ' beloved,' 405, 407, 412 «. i ; (1805), 421, 425, 426 71. I, 429; (1806), 436; and the Boltons {q.v.), 439, 440 ; (1808), 444; (1809), 452; (1810), death, 453; App. 520, 522." Henry (1813), 42, 472. Calder, Sir R. (1805, July 22), 422, 423. Calonne, Prince (1791), 131. Campbell, Abbe (1798. Dec), 278 ; (1801- 2), 386; (1803), 408; (1805), letter to Lady Hamilton, 430; (1813), 457. Commodore (1798, Dec), royal flight, 247 71. 3, 265 ; App. 519. Canning, W. [statesman], 142, 160, 195 71. 5 ; and Emma's claims, 205, 367 ; (1805), 424; (1806), acknowledges her claims, 437 ; (1810), admits their justice, 447 7iotes I and 2 ; (1813), 458. Canova, 118. Canzano, Duke of, 167. Capel, Captain (1798), sent by Nelson to Emma with first news of Nile victory, 223 71. I. Caracciolo, Nicolo [Commandant of San Elmo] (1799), 268 71. I. Prince [the elder ; Finance Minis- ter] (1793), 167. Prince and Admiral [the younger ; Chief of Marine], 122 ; learned seaman- ship in England, 305; (1798), 228; (Dec.) 247 ; royal flight, 247, 248 ; his orders of embarkation, 249 ; on the voyage and arrival, Palermo, 258 ; false loj'alty, ib. ; (1799, March), Nelson's opinion of, 279 ; (May and June), evidt-nces of his treacher)', 290 and 71. 2 ; fires on his flagship, 291 ; a hostage, but flies, 294 ; 'the Queen on, 304 «. 3; (June 2 L S30 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON 27-29), his arrest, trial, and execution, 305-7 ; episode of his reappearance, 311. Carafa, Prince Ettore, 123. Caramanico, Prince (1776), 122; (1779), 124. Joseph, Prince, 122; (1794), death, 174. Caravelli [litterateur^ 124. Caretto \litt6rateur\ 121. 'Carew,' Emma [or Hart, Lady Hamil- ton's first daughter], 44 w. i ; (T782), 70 n. I ; (1784), 70, 71, 72 and n. 3 ; school bills, 75 ; description of, 156 n. 2, 73, 76, 136, 178 n. I, 343, 367, 370; parting letter of, 455 ; App. 479 ; her parting letter, 480. Carnegie, Lady (1791), 147. Caroline, Princess of Wales (1807), Emma invited to meet her, 439. Carr, Miss, 133 ; portrait by, of Lady Hamilton, 137. Carrol, Captain T. (1798), 204, 240; (1801), 345 ; App. 500. Carter, Rev. R. , 40 «. i. Castelcicala, Prince (1789), 123; (1793), 145; (1794), 174; (1797), conciliatory, 197 ; (1798), and theQueen, 199; (Dec. ), 250, 257; (1799, July 9), arrives with King in Naples, 308 ; (1800), mission to London, 327 ; App. 519. Cathcart,Charles[Greville's friend], 38, 61. Lord, 468. Cathcarts, the, 399. Championnet, General (1799), 263, 265 ; forced ba-^k to Capua, 267 ; (Jan. 22), his promises, and part in St. Januarius' procession, 267, 269 ; enters Naples, 269 ; conduct, 270. Channer, 425 n. 2. Charles ill. of Spain, 113. IV. of Spain [brother of Ferdinand IV. of the two Sicilies] (1795-6); his part in Franco-Spanish conspiracy for rapprochement, so as to bully Naples out of neutrality and worst England, 188-192. VI. of Germany, 113. Charlotte, Queen (of England), 133, 136, 329- Chatham, first Earl of, alluded to, 158 ; cited by Nelson, 233. John, second Earl of (1756-1835), and Nelson, 157. Cheney, General, 137. Chesterfield, Earl of, 39, 51 n. i. Cheze, La [ambassador], 152 n. i. Chirac, Denis [jeweller], 57. Cholraondeley, Mr. (1793), 155. Christine, Archduchess (1793), 153. Cimarosa [composer], 117, 228. Cipriani [artist], 21. Circello, Prince [ambassador], 142, 145 n. I, 193, 226 n. 2, 327. Cirillo, Dr. [scientist], 120. Domenico (1799), 305. Clarence, Duke of (1702), 157; (1805), condoles with Lady Hamilton, 431. I Clarke, Mr. [secretary], 44, 454 ; App. I 508. Clementina, Archduchess and Princess, 115 n. I, 138 n. I, 228, 235; (1798, Dec. 21), 249. Cochrane, Admiral, App. 521. Coco, Vincenzo [Jacobin and author], 119 7t. 2 ; (1799), 272. Colletta [historian], 120, 145. CoUingwood, Vice-Admiral Lord (1805), , 422, 455 ; App, 525. Colonna, Prince, 114, 167. Commins, Mr., 498. Compton, Mr., 315 n. 4. Condorcet, 142. Conforti [historian], 121. Connor family, the, 43 n. 2, 385, 438 n, I, 443; (1810-12), 455. Mrs. [Lady Hamilton's maternal aunt], 43, 368, 438. Ann, 43, 438. Cecilia, 418, 438 n. i ; (1809), 451 ; (1812), duns Lady Hamilton, 450- Charles, 43; (1801), 356 ; (1804), 418 ; (1808), 438 71. I. Eliza, 43, 438 n. i. Mary [for a space governess also, like her sister Sarah], 43 ; (1805), on Horatia and Nelson, 425. Sarah, 43; (1803), governess, 405, 407; (1804), 415 71. I, 418; (1805), her letter about Nelsons return, 423 ; (1809), 451 and 71. 5. Cos'.vay [artist], 20. Cowper [poet], 63. Coxe, Mr., 455 71. 6, 461. Craven, Lady [Margravine of Anspach], 67 71. 3, 82. Cribb [steward and grocer], 406, 421. Cumberland, Duke of (1786), 101 n. 3. Curtis, Don Michel [Governor of Pro- cida] (1799), 278 n. 3 ; (May), 282. Curwen, Christian, Mr., i8 n. 4. Cuto, General (1795), ^^75- Cuzzardi [painter], 21. D' Albert, Rosalie, 153. Darner, Anne Seymour, Honourable Mrs. , 67 and n. 5, 89, 122. Danton (1791), 143. Dartmouth, Earl of, 65. Dashwood, analogy of, 122. Daumier, Mrs. , 454. Davison, Alexander (1800), 326, 335, 341 n. l; (1801), 352 n. 5, 379, 385; (1802), 3991 (1803), remonstrates on Emma's improvements, 405, 407, 408, 410; (1805), 419, 425, 448; (1806), courts Earl Nelson, 439; (1808), on Emma's committee, 449 ; App. 510, 515- Dejean [courier], 86. Delfico [scientist], 121. ' Demoiselles de France,' the (1789), 126 ; (1798, Dec), 248. D'Enghien, Due (1803), 402. INDEX 531 Denis, Mrs. [fi/e Lind] (1801), 342, 368, 386; (1809), 451; (1813), 460; App. 480, 481, 502 n. 4, 517. Dent, Mrs., 360. Devonshire, Georgina, Duchess of, 15 ; (1793), 122, 133, 154; (1810), still Lady Hamilton's friend, 455. D'Harcanville, 36 «. i. Diavolo, Fra [freebooter and soldier], 116 «. 2 ; (1799, May), 271. Dickenson, Mrs. [Sir W. Hamilton's niece Mary], 82, 99 ; (1791), 135 n. 3. Dietrichstein [' Draydrixton '], Prince, (1786), 103, 315 n. 3. Douglas, Lord William (1791), 135, 150 «. 2; (1801), 373; verses, 376-7. Marquis of (1802), 389. Downward, Mrs. , 43. Droz, Gustave, alluded to, 5 «. 2. Drunmiond, Lady Charlotte, 157 «. i. Dubourg, M. [violinist], 57. Ducheyla {1798), killed in Nile battle, 223. Duckworth (1798), and Minorca, 239, 279 ; and Nelson, 280; (1799, June 25), 289 n. 5, 300 n. 2 ; (Sept. ), Nelsop orders to protect British trade, 314 ; (1806 and after), retains friendship for Emma, 440 n. 3 ; App. 522. Dumourie?,, General, 144, 335, 409. Dunmore, Lady (1792), 150. Duphot (1797), killed in Jacobin uprising at Rome, 196. Dutens, L. [Secretary to Turin Embassy] (1791), 136; (1801), 342. Earthquakes at Naples, 36 «. i ; (1793), 167. at Siena (1797), 197. East India Company (1799), 317- Eden [diplomatist] (1798), 203, 233 n. i. Lady, 179. Elcho, Lord (1790), 127. Elizabeth, Prmcess [of Russia], 24. Ellenborough, Lord, 465 and 71. 4, 469 n. 2 ; App. 513. Elliot, Hugh, The Honourable, 99 ;/. 4 ; (1804), 411. Lady, 105 n. 5; and Emma, 181, 331- Sir Gilbert [ambassador], (1797), summoned by Acton to confer with Hamiltons, 197; (1799, November), correspondence with Lady Hamilton, 320 n. 2 ; (1800), his insinuations, 325 and n. 2, 5 «. 4, 330 /.'. 3; (1802), as critic at Merton, 391-3; inaccuracy, 392 «. I ; (1803), on Emma's provision, 399 "■ S- Elliott, Grace Dalrymple, 24. Epicharis [freedwoman], analogy of, 224. Erskine, Sir James St. Clair, 143 n. i, 287 n. 2 ; App. 522. Este, Rev. C. (1802), 395 «. 4 ; App. 504. Dr. L., 148. Esterhazy, Prince, 332. Eyre, Governor, analogy of, 306. Exeter, Lord, 37. Fady [midshipman], 25 ; (i8oi), at Mer- ton, 386. Falaguerra [littiSrateur], 121. Falco [physician and conspirator], (1793), 144 n. 2. Falconet [agent], 407. [banker], 259 n. 2. Faypoult [French commissary], (1799), 262, 270. Ferdinand iv., King of the two Sicilies {1752- 1 826), 20 n. I, 22 «. 7, 25, 487?. I ; (1776), 6s; (1782), 69, 90-92, 97; (1786), and Lady Hamilton, 103 ; episodes of Lady Hamilton's meeting with, 103, III and n. 3, 112-14; his character, education, and early surroundings, 115-18, 139; musical, 116, 155; his humour, 118 and «. i ; pro-Spanish bias up to 1796, 118, 125, 139, 141 ; effects of French Revolution on, 126; (1791), attiiidc to affairs and his wife, 139 ; anti-bureaucratic, and so popular, though despotic, 143; (1792), Sir William's illness, 150, 153; (1793), attentions to English, 155 ; reception of Nelson, 162-63; (1795), ^74 I (i795- 96), his pro-Spanish policy, keeps Acton and Hamilton in the dark, corresponds secretly with his brother the Spanish King, 186 and scq. ; re- ceives tlu-eatening letters from him, 188; temporises, ib., 191 ; (Sept. 1796), receives the King of Spain's secret and crucial letter announcing terms of alliance with France, 191, 192; (1797), and Acton regarding Mediterranean squadron, 197; (1798), dejectionatpoliti- cal situation, 202 n. 4, 212 ; dispersed by Nelson's arrival, 202 and n. 4 ; now lean- ing on Austria, 203 ; awaiting Austria's (if.v.) negotiations, 203, 205, 206; (June 17), the informal 'order' in his name procured through Hamilton (//. ^/.) for Acton (q.-j.), 207 and seq., 219 ; ignorant of Queen's action at Emma's instance, 210 and seq. ; in- structions to Sicilian port Governors. 216 and n. 4, 217, 218 ; to be kept in the dark as to his wife's secret letter to Nelson, 218; the ' Govrrnor of Syracuse's letter' purposely meant to be shown to him, ib. ; gratitude to Nelson, 227 ; reception by, of Nelson, 228; now waiting on Austria, 232, 235; his frivolous outlook, ib.; starts with Mack on ill-starred campaign, 234, 239 ; (Nov. ), enters Rome, ib. 240 '; (Dec.), Rome re-taken, ib. ; (Dec), returns ashamed to Naples, 243, 244 ; plans for escape of, 247, 249 ; altered,' ib. ; his reasons for hesitation, 248 ; (Dec. 21), dallies, 249, 256; the flight, 248-255 ; refuses deputies' petition to 532 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Ferdinand iv. — continued. remain, 256; (Dec. 23), voyage, 256 and seq. ; arrival, 258 ; rage v. Queen, 259 ; effects of flight at Naples, 260 ; (1799), instructions, 267 n. 2 ; (April), replaces Pignatelli (q.v.) by Ruffo {q.v.); his strict injunctions limiting powers of, 271 and }i. i ; his commis- sion to Ruffo and institution of new tribunal divulged to Jacobins, 272 ; and LuisaSanfelice(^.^'.), 272; listens again toGallo, 276 ; (June), confers full powers on Nelson, 282 ; (June), suspects Ruffo, but awaiting certainty, lets Nelson depart without him, 288 ; (June 16), council about Ruffo, 289 ; letters to, 289 notes I and 2 ; latent cruelty, 290, 304, 310; his orders to Nelson, 303; Caracciolo and Nelson, 306 n. 3 ; (July 9), arrival in Naples, 308; eventual plans as mentioned by Lady Hamilton, 309 ; at English prayers, ib. ; fetes and honours for Nelson at Palermo, 312-14 ; withholds grain from Malta, 315, 316 ; not a gambler \teste Ben- tinck], 318; (1800), pensions Trou- bridge, 320 n. i ; anger with Lady Hamilton and eventual reconciliation, 321 and n. 2 ; trims towards France, 327 «. I ; (1801), Nelson's letter to, 374; writes to Nelson, 375; (1803), 400; (1806), addresses English minis- ters on Emma's behalf, 408 n. 2 ; condition of his affairs, 410; (1804), despairs at Nelson's departure from Mediterranean, 418. Ferdinand, Archduke, 115. [the younger], 115 n. i; mar- riage, 138 n. I. Ferrari (1798), 250. Ferrers, Lord (1786), iot «. 3. Fetherstonehaugh, Sir Henry {1777), 66 71. 2; (1781), 34 and «. I, 47, 49 and "• 3. SO. 52-53; (1809-10), letters of, to Lady Hamilton, 453, 455. Lady, 50. Filangeri [jurist], 1..0. Filisan [Mrs. Billington's second hus- band], 451. FilomArino, Clemente (1799, Jan.), and Lazzaroni {q.z'.), 268. Fisher, Dr., 382 n. i, 386; (1804, Aug. i), 416. Fitzharris, Lord, 332. Fitzherbert, Mr., 278. Fitzmurray, 338 ri. i. Flaxman [sculptor], 36 «. i ; (1791). 147; (1800), 334; interview with Nelson, 341 and n. 2 ; App. 514. Fleury, Duchess of (1789), 128. Flint [King's messenger] (1793), 156. Foote, Captain (1799, May), commis- sion by Nelson to reduce Neapolitan mainland, 282 ; proclaims blockade, id. ; his p^rt in events of June de- tailed and discussei, 292-294. Ford, Mrs, ['Mrs. M. Nelson], (1800), 334 and n. i ; (1801), 374, 378 ; (1804), 419; (1808), 444. Foster, Lady Elizabeth [afterwards Duchess of Devonshire], 15 ; (1793), 122 ; (1798), tribute to Lady Hamilton's heroism, 255 n. i ; (1799), and Lady Hamilton, 276 «. 2; (1800), 328; (1805), condolence with Lady Hamilton, 431 ; (1806 and after), remains her warm friend, 439. Fox, C. J. [statesman], 122 ; and Carac- ciolo, 306 ; and Nelson, id. n. 2. France, historical ambitions of French Bourbons for Italy, 113, 114; (1789), 125-26; (1791), beginnings of league against. 138; (1792), 144; (1793), her Neapolitan representative dismissed, 223, 239 ; Tr6ville spreads revolution- ary ideas at Naples, 145 ; designedly foments the ferment, i72andj^y. ; effect of Directoire on Italian Jacobinism, 173 ; French designs up to and after i79S> 173; (1795), National Convention bribes .Austria, 141 n. 2 ; (1795-6), uses republicanism to possess Italy; manceuvres rapprochement with Spain, 182 and seq. ; (1796-7), exacts com- pact from Naples, dictates treaties to Pope and Emperor, 183 ; (1797), forces Naples to acknowledge Cisalpine Republic, 184 ; bullies and blackmails her, 198 ; her conspiracy with Spain V. Naples, 185 ; regains Ionian Islands and Low Countries, 196 n. i ; (1798), her forces v. England, 199 ; objects of, in countenancing Napoleon's Egyptian expedition, 202 n. i ; gold lavished on revolutionising Italy, 204 ; influence of her compulsory engagement with Naples on events of June 17, 1798 [see 'Treaties,' Franco-Neapolitan], 205; boasts disappointed by Nile battle, 223. 228 ; threatens to burn fleet, ib. ; gains ground in Italy, designs on Naples, 231 ; and Ireland, 232; Nelson's aims of intercepting Egyptian com- munications of, 234 ; in Malta, 238 ; Naples declares war against, 239 ; declares war also, ib. ; successes in Rome, 239 ; prepares Netipolitan in- vasion, 244, 245, 247; occupies Rome, ib.; (1799, Jan. ), approaching invasion to ' Parthenopean Republic,' 260-61 ; reflections on French manufacture of, 261-65; Pignatelli's armistic". 273; Directory's e.xactions at Naples, 270 and seq. , 306, 309 ; garrison reduced, 271 ; Calabrian campaign, and conduct in, 271 and seq.\ Leghorn surrenders to, ib. ; Capuan successes, 274 ; fleer, ib., 276; fleet quits Brest, 279-80; Neapolitan-Jacobins anxiously await it, 292, 294 ; (1800), troops in Egypt, 321: (1801), 375; (1803), and Naples again, 410; (1805), prepares to invade England, 417, 423;?. i; and to cope with Nelson, 419 ; Trafalgar, 242 ; INDEX 533 (1815), effects of Rourbon reaction, 471, ' 472- I Francis, 'Prince' [Neapolitan Pretender], | ,(1799). 270. Francis 11. [Emperor of Austria and Germany], 115 //. i ; marriage to ' Princess Maria, 138 n. i ; (1798), 199 ; his cold hesitation and caution, 232 ; , (Dec), 243. } Francis, 'Old Dame' [Lady Hamilton's faithful servant], (1808), 448 ; (1814-15), I 466, 471. Fuss, Miss, 382. I Gaetano [servant], 411. I Gainsborough, T. [artist], 20, 47. \ Galanti [scientist], 120. 1 Gailiani JscientistJ, 121. I Gallini [impresario], 136. 1 Gallo, Marquis of [Neapolitan Foreign I Minister], (1779), 122; (1791), 139; pro-Spanish, 140; and (1795-6), 189; (1798), and Queen, 199; on Nehon's arrival, 203 ; (June 17), in irregular council, hesitates, 205 ; ' disabuses ' Garat, 205 n. 4, 206 n. 2 ; his replies to Nelson's requisitions forwarded, 207; Emma on, 214; Nelson's disgust at, 231; his policy, 231-32; (1798, Nov.), despatched to Vienna in vain, 243; (Dec), 248; (1799), intrigues v. Queen, 276. Galluci [musician], 99. Garat, 'Citizen' [French Minister at Naples], 152 n. 1 ; (June 17-22, 1798), 205 71. 4, 206 ; his demands refused, 214 ; Emma on, 214 ; (1798), furious at Nile battle, 223-228 ; Nelson on, 233 ; dismissed, 223, 230. Gardener, G. , Rev. , 40 n. 2. Garrick, David [actor], 104. Gaynor [' Friend'], (1804), 411. Geddes, Alexandf-r [scholar], 57. George III., 33, 48; (1786), loi n. 3; (1791), 129, 132 ; Hamilton's statement about, 130; confirms hiin in ;imbassador- ship, 136, 169; his prt-jiidices z*. Lady Hamilton, 171 v . 4 ; (1794), renews war, 177 ; (1799), and Troubndgc. 322, 328; (1801), 356, 364, 365, 371, and Emma's claims, 447 n. 2 ; (1813), 458. Prince of Wales, and Prince Regent, 26, 45. 48, 153 n. 5, 278 ; (1791), 356; (1801), repulsed by Lady Hamilton, the Prince of Wales episode, 356-366. 357 w. i; (1805), 423 n. 2; and Nelson, 423; (1808), 448; (1813), 458- Gihbs [manager of Bronte], 313, 402 w. 3 ; App. 521. Gibson, Mrs. [alias 'Jenkins'], 332 and V. 4 ; (1801), 370 «. 2, 417, 455.' Girdlestonc, Mrs. (1810), 455. nnd App. 511. (Ilouccster, Duke of (1787), and Lady Hamilton, int. CiOdolphin, analogy of, 122. Goethe, Wolfgang, 15, and Sir William Hamilton, 68, 107; (1786), description by, of Nai)les, 96 ; and Lady Hamilton, loi ; account of her attitudes, 105 ; (1787), of his dinner at the Embassy, 106, 335 Goldsmid, Abraham, 332, 380 and w. i, 383, 422 n. 3, App. SI I ; (1805^ letter to Lady Hamilton, 430 ; (1808), on her ' committee,' buy sMerton, 449 and n. 3; Emma's mention of, -150 ; (1810), suicide, 454. Grafer [steward], (1793), 156 ; (1799), 156 n. I ; 281 n. i, 313; (1803), 402 n. 2. Mrs., 53 n. I, 156 n. 1; (1808), Emma intercedes for, 443 ; App. 510. Graham, Colonel, App. 523. Dr. James [empiric and showman], 47-49, 52 ; App. 476. Graves, Mr., 379. Gravina, Duke of (1798I, 257. Duchess of (1798), 250. .Admiral (1805), App. 525. Greece (1799), S'^^ °f' ^° Nelson, 314. Grenville, Lord [statesman], (1759- 1834), his coldness, caution, ar.d lack of initiative, 142, 416; Acton's opinion of, ayrees with Canning's, ib.\ 'chicaned,' ih. >i. 3 ; (1798), speech, ib. ; (1795-96), rcct ives the Queen's secret information through the Hamiltons, 186 and seq. ; advises Naples to give up the game, 189; grows fainter and cooler, ib.; Sir William Hamilton's despatch to, 191, 193 and n. 2, 194 w. i, 195 ; (1797). still dallies over a Mediterranean squadron, 196; (1798), his conduct in at length consenting to it, 199 ;/. 2 ; his stress on necessity of obtaining free and un- limited admission of British vessels into Mediterranean harbours, 203 ; (June), Hamilton despatches and draft de=patclies to, and Emma's claims, 205, 206-7 and 71. 2 ; (July 22), Nelson's letters forwarded to, by Hamilton, 220 and «. 4; (1798), orders to Nelson, 273; (1799), 294 n. 2, 300 ''''■ 3. 307 "■ 3; (1800), 322 n. I, 327; Nelson sends him Czar's letter about his services and Einma's, 350 ri. 3 ; (1805), 448 ; (1806, April 30), interview with" Earl Nelson, 433 w. i; and Nelson's codicil, 435, 436 ; (1810), seems not to have denied fairness of Emma's claims, 447 n. i. Greville, the Hon. C. F. (1749-1809) [' Pliny the Younger'], on Lady Hamil- ton, 6, II, 13, 15, 19, 23, 24, 41, 44, 46, 47,51, 52, 224; characteiandantecedents of, 33 «. I, 35-39, 235 ; (1781), character- istics, 4, 37-39, 50; (1782), 33 ; Emma's letter to, 34; his answer, 52-53; his views of womankind, 54, 56 ; establishment in Edgware Row, 57 and fetj. ; his accounts of Emma's simplicity, 60, 61 ; in Romney's studio, 62 ; reference to. by Hayley, 63; his description ol hist 534 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Gieville, the Hon. C. F. — continued. Lady Hamilton, 66 ; condolences with uncle on first Lady Hamilton's death, 68; (1783), 69; (1784), 70 and seq.; his income, 71 n. i ; and Emma's Park Gate visit, 72 and seq. ; and ' little Emma' ('Carew,' Emma), 74 and seq., 77; sends porter to Naples, 393; his uncle's kindness to, 77, 82; (1785), 79 and seq. ; his conduct and motives in Emma's disposal, 80, 86 and seq., 90, 95 seq., 96 ; (1786), effects of his conduct, 89 and seq. ; his orders to Emma, 92 ; his cynical comment to Hamilton, 94, 98 ; Lady Hamilton's letter to, 103, 107 ; his intentions as to settlement, 95 i (1787), letters to, from Hamilton, 100, 104, III n. I ; (1789-1791), his fears for and information of his uncle's imminent marriage, 128-133 ; his feel- ings, 135 ; (1792), on Grenville's policy, 142 n. 5; Sir William's illness, i^i, 153"- 5: (1794). 178, 181; (1795), 182; (1796), 193; (1798), 246; (1799), 260, 270 n. 2, 275 n. 4 ; tribute of, to Emma's heroism, 283, 286 n. i, 300 «. I, 308; (1800), 320, 334, 335 and «• 3. 337; (1801), 342, 344; influences Sir 'William in Prince of Wales episode, 357, 362 ; his conduct known to Nelson, 362 and n. r, 368 ; Milford, 377; and Merton, 383, 385, 389; his warnings and his contrivance, ib. ; (1802), the peerage scheme, 389-390; the Hamilton-Nelson tour to Milford and Cardiff, 393-397 ; (1803), his letter concerning Emma's services and Hamilton's unrequited claims, 170 ; the will, 400 ; his influence, 399-400 ; his strong application in Emma's favour to Government, 400, App. 524 ; for Hamilton, 401 w. 2 ; (May), be- haviour to Emma, 403, 434; coUecto- mania again, 405; (1808), thaws to- wards Emma, 442, 449-50; (1809), death, 452 ; (1812), sale of his collec- tions, ib ; App. 510, 518, 524. Colonel the Honourable R. Fulke, 61 (i8ic); 455 (1814); 466 (1815); lawsuit, 469-472. Guidobaldi (1794), 174. Gustavus of Sweden, 144. Hackert [painter], 20 ; (1786), 105 n. i. Hackwood [milliner], 59. Halifax, Earl of, his alleged association with Lady Hamilton's family, 41. Halfhide, Mr. and Mrs., 380, 382. Hallowell, Captain (1799), 271, 286; (1805), 424. Hamilton, Cecilia, 38 n. 2, 67. Duke of, 66 n. 2, 389. Elizabeth (Countess of Warwick), 35- Gavin [artist], 16, 21, 22 «. i; (1792), 148. Lady [Sir William's first wile], 35, 66 and seq., 67; funeral of, 68; Hamilton's promise, 67 ; which was kept, 399. Hamilton, Emma, Lady (1765-1815), date of birth and her real name, 39-51 ; App. 476 ; a power, prompts as well as acts, medium for genius, 2 and seq. , 399 ; enthusiasm infectious (see at end '(Qualities'): a true daughter of de- mocracy, 22, 393 ; 'nonpareil,' 10 and n. 5 ; spontaneous, 4 ; naturally theatrical, 11 ; inspiration, feminine, 10 ; and Hayley, 11 ; unachieved self- discipline, 11, 213; self-education, 12- 13, 15 ; knowledge of languages, 7 «. 1, 12 71. 8, 467-8, App. 481, 483 ; physical organisation, 14 ; effervescence and dis- interestedness, ch. i. passim ; defects (see 'Qualities'); domesticity and simplicity (see 'Qualities'); resent- ment at being thwarted, 14 ; could awe beholders, ib. ; love of surprises, 14-17 (and see 'Qualities'); artistic accom- plishments, 13 and seq. (and see 'Qualities'); an excellent nurse, 15- 25 ; devotion to kmdred, 14 and 51?^. (see 'Qualities'); beloved by English women of distinction, 15 ; big-hearted- ness, 15; kindness and love of children, 24 ; gaiety and mimicry, ib. ; accent, 17 ; spelling, 8 n. 3, 102, 131 n. i ; and Romney {q.v.), 16-31; faculty for rendering emotion, 17 and seq. ; pic- tures of, 17-21, 60, 61, 62, 63, J-], 79 n. 1 , 92 n. 1 ; her verses, 277, 372 ; Bohemianism, 22, 181, 386, 413, 451 ; protean changes of face, 21 ; her Atti- tudes, 15, 47, 99, 105 and notes 4 and 5 ; a muse, 21-23 '< theatrical associations, 45 ; appearance, 22 ; like Trilby, 23 ; tirades, 8 n. 3, 347, 349, 393, 396 ; clues to her and Nelson's attachment, 2, 26-7, 161-2, 225.6, 234-5, 275-6, 286, 299. 3".. 318, 323, 351, 352, 363, psychological problems, 31, 32 ; sum- mary of career, 472-5 ; birth and environment, 39-51. (1782) Appeal to Greville, 34; his answer, 52; education, 41, 64, 441, 443 71. 2 ; Edgware, 57 and seq. (1783) 69. (1784) Accounts, 58; affection for Greville (q.v.), 59; Park Gate and Emma 'Carew' {q.v.), 4, 59, 60, 72 and seq. ; return to London, 76 ; Ranelagh incident, 60 ; progress, 60 and j^^. ; acquaintances, 61 ; Romney, 61 ; his brother's account of her con- duct, 62; Hayley [q.v.), 62-64; first sight of Sir W. Hamilton, 71 and seq. (1785) 79 and seq. ; terms of his in- vitation to Naples, 84-86 ; her reply, 87 ; her situation and her feelings at parting, 86 and seq. (1786-89) Arrival at Naples — pleading letters to Greville, 88 and seq., 90; final appeal, 91 ; indignant reply to INDEX 535 Hamilton, Emma, Lad)' — contimied. Greville's orderj 92 ; repeated trust in him, 93; her enlarging horizon, 94; Greville's intentions, 95, 96 ; outlook, 98; as 'Madonna,' 5, 108, 109; in- vites Romney and Hayley, 8, 94 ; feel- ings towards Hamilton as rescuer and friend, 99 and seij., 105 11. 2 ; progress at Palazzo Sessa, 101 and seq. ; sudden conquest of society, 102 ; scenes and sensations of her triumph, 90, 102-9 i Santa Romita, 99, 109 ; and the nun, iio-ii ; and the King (see ' Ferdinand IV.'), 103, III and n. 3, 112-14; and San Leucio colony, 122. (1789) 127; the Duchess of Argyll's friendship for her and its influence, ib. ; and Madame Le Brun, 127 ; social standing, 128, 137 ; the great recep- tion, ib. (1790) Lord Bristol, 130 ; Greville, 128-30 ; tentatives for marriage, 129, 130 ; her allowance, 129, 193 ; the marriage project, 131 and seq.\ desola- tion at the Duchess's death, 130 ; journey homewards, 131 ; London at last, 133 and seq. ; Romney, ib. ; Gallini's offers, 134 ; Jane Powell, 135 ; wedding, 136 ; visit to Marie Antoi- nette, 136 ; evidence as to, considered, 145-6; returns to Naples in complete favour with society, Englisli and Nea- politan, 137 ; begins political study, 138, 150; political situation, 138-46. (1791-1796) England's advocate, 140 and seq. ; spurs on Acton and Hamil- ton, 142, 224. (1791, Dec.) Letter to Romney, 146, 147 ; attention of English ladies to, 148 ; Sir William's correspondence with, 148-50 ; her grief and assiduity on Sir William's illness, 150-1 ; to Greville of her grandmother, 151. {1792) Her general acceptability now fortified by (jueeii's regard, 146 ; ' im- provement,' ib. (1793-94) Diplomatic beginnings and intimacy with Queen, 152 and seq. ; App. 481 ; on Jacobin libellers, 153 n. 5, ascendency, 154, 168 ; music with King, 155 ; with Sir William, and botany, 156 ; catches the Queen's tone, ib. ; first meet- ing with Nelson, 163 and seq. ; her first impressions of, 164 ; her power of inspiring him analysed, 2, 9, 10, 22; 161 and seq. , 163-4 ; a human docu- ment, 162 ; joins in Nelson's enthusi- asm, 166; rouses the Quet-n, 166; her r61e as ' stateswoman ' begins, 169 ; her claims for serving England in 1793 con- sidered, 169-73 ; bs*" correspondence with the Queen, 176 and seq. (1795) Husbands renewed illness, 177 and n. 5 ; friendship with Lord Bristol, 178; and Countess of Lich- tenau, 135-6; her claims for services in 1795 and 1796 fully discussed, 182- 96, App. 483 ; her transcripts of docu- ments and ciphers, 183 n. 6, 184 and 71. I, 190 ; her main claim non-relative to a cipher, 185 ; probability of her being huice instrumental in forwarding a critical document, 186 ; her con- fusion explained, 187 ; joins Acton and her husband in detectmg the facts of Spanish connivance with France, so as to urge on the vacillating Lord Gren- ville to decision, 189 ; her close con- fabulation with Queen, 190; her report to Greville, ib. ; the ' Chiffre de Gala- tone,' 190-1, App. 483 ; her initiative, 190 n. 5 ; pricks her husband to action, 191 ; a trusted go-between, ib. ; her husband's statement of the Queen's confidence in her, 191 ; opportunities and motives, ib. (1796, late summer and early autumn) Spain, who in previous years had wriggled out of coalition, now pro- poses to join France ; Emma gets wind of the terms through the Queen, 191 and seq. ; presumptions favouring Emma's own account of the transac- tion, 193, 194; some presumptions against, rebutted, 195 ; her letter from the Queen and to Greville, about special courier, 193; (1797), reheartens Queen and braces Hamilton, 196 ; through her Nelson's views as to Mediterranean squadron prevail, 197; the Queen rests all on her influence, 199; together they await Mediterranean squadron, 200. (1798) Together chafe v. Franco- Neapolitan pact enforcing neutrality, 204 ; Nelson's arrival in the bay, his message and messengers, 204 ; Emma's service in procuring the Queen's order to water and provision British fleet cor- roborated by some new and important evidence, 10^ z.x^A seq . , App. 486 ; her early awakening — difference in English and Neapolitan time, 204 «. 3; her action with Queen for Nelson, 208 and seq. ; her two letters to Nelson, 209, 210 ; his hitherto disputed reply, 211 ; her indorsement, ib. ; evidence that she met him, 209 n. 2; resumes correspon- dence with Nelson immediately — her remarkable letter, 214 ; initiative, 214 ; for war, ib. (July 19-23) had promised Nelson to ' come down Mediterranean' to Sicily if Queen's private and secret letter ineffective, 216 and w. i, 220 ; episode of Governor of Syracuse and Nelson, 216-23 : Nelson's letter of first disappointment at private order's tem- porary failure, 220 ; his two letters of rapture at success, 221-22 ; evidence that change of tone was due to inter- vention of ' Queen's letter, ' see Nelson; her transports at Nile victory, as re- lated by her to Nelson, 6-8, 223 and seq., App. 489-501 ; the first to hear of it, 223 n. 1 ; her feelings, 224 and 536 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamilton, Emma, Lady — continued, seq. ; her own account of them con- firmed, 224 n. 3 ; problems of heart and temperament, 225, 226, 232, 240; ' correspondence with Nelson, 6, 29, 223, | 226-8, 235-40, App. 489 and 5^(7. ; writes 1 to Lady Nelson, 227, 229 n. i, 231 ; unwell, 227 ; her meeting with Nelson, 228; nurses Nelson, 229; her general exertions, 230 ; her reception in Nelson's honour, 230, 231; (Sept-Oct. ), imder political outlook in close confabulation with Nelson, 232 ; affinities to, ib. ; Nelson's manifesto, 233 ; Foreign Minister during Nelson's absence, 234, 235 and seq. ; Nelson's letter before voyage to Malta, 234 ; inspires Queen with Nelson's spirit, 235 ; her strong political initiative as shown by her letter to Nelson, 235 and seq. ; Tria j juncta in uno, 238, 366 ; at Caserta with Queen, 240 ; awaits Nelson's return from Leghorn in (Nov.) crisis, ib.; her indefatigable alertness in preparing the Queen's flight, 242-55 ; constancy to Queen, 242 ; her accounts of her various exertions confirmed, 245 and seq., 252 ; stows the royal effects, 245 ; foils the Jacobin spies, 247; resourceful- ness, 248; Queen leans on her, 246, 248, 250 ; the secret passage a fact, 250 and n. 3 ; romantic incidents of the escape resuscitated, 251 and seq.; Emma's own accounts tested, 252-3, 255 ; the pro- bable episode, 254, 255 ; she, her husband, and mother to be embarked separately by Nelson, 248; her hero- ism during the storm on the voyage, 255, 256 and seq.; Macpherson's, Lady Betty Foster's, and Lord St. Vincent's tributes to, 255 and tiotes i and 2; acknowledgment also by English royalties, 283 ; the vovage, 255 and seq. ; Emma's exertions — Nelson's account of hers, 257 ; comforts the Queen, ib. ; discharges Embassy duties, 259. (1799) Does not detain Nelson from duty, 272 and seq., 285; sympathetic and energetic aid of Nelson, 275 and seq. ; Nelson's amanuensis, ib. n. 6; 'Fate will carry me down,' ?i^. and 276; helps Nelson with Acton, ib. ; her verses to Nelson, 277 ; reli^jious Influences, 277 ; helps Troubridge, 278-9 ; (May), letters to Nelson, 280-1 ; (June), theQueen's requests, 282; her ex- citement, 283 ; her own invitation, 284 ; her mixed feelings, 285-6 ; glory for her meant honour, ib. ; her mother, 285-6 ; starts with Nelson, Sir William, and Miss Knight on Foudroyant for Naples, 289 ; Nelson's growing ascend- ency over, 289 ; her telling part in events of June- August, 297-31T ; inter- 1 prets and translates, 297, 298 ; and \ Ruffo, ib. ; a woman of action ; the ! episode of Pali, 299-300; forms a 'Queen's party,' ib. on Queen's reformation, ib. ; thanked and con- gratulated by Ruffo, 303 ; correspond.s with Queen, ib. ; compassionate, 304 and w. 3, 308 ; and Caracciolo, 307 ; (July), on the situation, the King and the Queen, 308 ; episode of Caracciolo's reappearance, 311; zenith reached, 312 ; the Palermo pageant, 312-13 ; Italian poem on, 313 n. 3; procures Bronte for Nelson, cf. App. 513 (10) (a) ; her ' trousseau,' 314 ; (Septem- ber and December 1799, ^^^^ spring 1801), exertions for Maltese loyalists, 315, 316 and n. 3; deputies lodge at Embassy, 'Ambassadress' receives Maltese Grand Cross from Czar through Lord Whitworth, 316 ; present to Nelson, 318; gambling, and Trou- bridge's remonstrances, 318-20 ; 'many enemies," unconsciousness of unpopularity, reason for illusions, 319- 20 ; her letter to Greville, 320 ; diplo- matic correspondence, 320 and n. 2 ; good offices for others, defies King, grief at prospect of parting from Queen, 321 and 11. I ; shares Nelson's aimr, and objects, 321, 322 ; invited to Malta, 322 ; (April 23), the journey to and from, 322-26 ; reflections on the present climr.v of Nelson's and Emma's passion, 323-25 ; despondency en voyage, 325 ; her poem, 326 ; (May 20), Palermo again, ib. ; Queen's letter to, of intense trust and affection, 328 ; King George's birthday fete, ib. ; tri- butes to her from many before the final farewell, 328, 329 ; absence creates void, 326 ; the homeward journey, 329- 40 ; Leghorn, pacifies mob, 330 ; Vienna, 332; Dresden, and Mrs. St. George, 333 ; Hamburg, 335 ; Yar- mouth and London, 336 ; had created a world of her own, 330-31 ; anticipa- tions, 334 ; face to face with Lady Nelson, 337; offers to call, ib. n. 2; London, 337-8 ; Fonthill, 338 ; scene with Lady Nelson, 338 ; the breach discussed, 340 ; her relentlessness, and letter to Mrs. W. Nelson, ib. ; Nelson's avowal of his feelings, 340 n. 3. (1801, March) In Piccadilly, 341 and seq. ; sells jewels for husband, 341 ; her coming ordeal, 342-3, 346 ; Nelson departs, 346 ; imminence of Horatia's birth, ' Thomson ' correspondence, 347 and seq. ; Nelson's extreme and prayerful agitation, 350-2 ; her inspira- tion, 352 ; birth of Horatia, and attend- ant circumstances, 352 and seq. ; Nel- son's letters on, 353-5 ; the singular Prince of Wales episode, 355-66 ; 'firm as a rock,' 357 and seq. ; Mrs. W. Nelson comes up to protect lier, her correspondence with her, 363-7, 370 ; and with Maria Carolina, ib. n. 5 ; on ' Tom Tit ■ [Lady Nelson], 364 ; INDEX 537 Hamilton, Emma, Lady — continued. (March) Nelson's departure for the North, 366 and 5^^.; on it, 370, 371 ; had confided past to Nelson, 362 and n. i ; concealed ' Emma Carew ' {q.v.), 367- 70 ; Nelson's declaration to, 368 ; visits Horatia, 370 and ;/. i ; Yarmouth visit falls to ground, 371 ; verses, 372 ; wait- ing, care for sick, 373 ; enthusiasm over Copenhagen, 375 ; on Nelson's return they visit Staines, 376 ; with him at Parker's death while Nelson in Channel, 377; spurs Nelson afresh, 377 ; acquisition of Merton, 378-84 ; 'Guardian Angel, '378 ; share-and-share alike, 380, 382 ; her activity in prepar- ing Merton, 379-81; 'Economy,' 381 ; and Nelson's father, 381 and n. 8 ; her description of their life there, 382-3 ; governess, 382; 'Paradise, '383; lavish- ness, 385-8 ; support of relatives, ih. ; a chaperone, 386 ; husband's murmurs, 388 ; Beckford's peerage scheme, 389- 90 ; her party and its critic, 391-3 ; (April), loss in death of Nelson's father, 390-9I- (1802) Her letter of enthusiasm to Nelson, 8 ?i. 3, 347, 348 ; embonpoint, 391-2 ; deaths of Romney and Payne, 394 ; Eton 4th of June, 451 n. i ; the Milford and Cardiff tour, 394-7 ; Nelson's enemies defied, her own account of the journey, 396 ; conjugal tiff and reconciliation, 396-97. (1803, May) devotion in Sir William's illness, hergriefathisdeathsiiicere,398; her indorsement, ib. ; Madame Le Rrun and the Attitudes ((/.t/.), 399: Sir Wil- liam's will, 399-400; the furniture assignment, 399 ; her real pectuiiary condition, Greville's mention of her to Government, 400; her application to Addington, 401 ; a wedding (Bolton) and a christening (Horatia), 402-3 ; (May), Nelson's departure, 402-3 ; Greville's conduct, 403 ; burden of Merton 'improvements,' 405, 444 ;/. 3, 446, 449 ; her friendly correspondence and intercourse with all Nelson's rela- tions, 405-6, 413 and seg. ; the ' suitors," 405 and n. i, 408, 414; at Southend, 408 ; her occupations and preoccupa- tions up to September, 408-9 ; on Nel- son's lack of prize-money, 408 ; wishes to rejoin Nelson, 409 ; royal letters, ib. ; carelessness of fashion, 412 n. i ; birth of Emma, 412 ; death, ib. n. 6 ; the Boltons' and Matchams' correspond- ence, 413 ; contradictions in her char- acter as displa^'cd in her answers, 413- 14 ; 'the Arms of Lyons,' 414 ; Rams- gate with William Nelsons, 415 ; applies to Government for Boltons, 416 ; (August), Canterbury, ib. ; Nelson prescribes the story to be told of Horatia now that she can live at Mer- ton, 417-18. (1805) Suspense, visits, debt, second visit to Southend, 421 ; (Sept. 17th), hurries from Southend to Merton to welcome Nelson, 422 ; Nelson's assur- ance to Pitt respecting her services, 445; new corroboration ol her story that she bade him ' go forth,' 423, App. 509; her last adieu, 424 ; her ' face an honest image of her heart, 'App. 507; last heart- broken notes, encloses Horatia's letter, 425, 426 ; ' May God send you victory and home,' 426; on Horatia to Nelson, 425, 426 and «. I ; NeLon her ' idol,' 426 ; his last words of her, 426-8 ; the codicil, 427 ; his last letter, and her indorsement, 427 n. 2 ; how she received news of his death, 429 ; her prostration and thouglits for others, 429, 430 ; her letters, 430 ; letters to her of sympathy, 430-31 ; a creature of the past, 430 ; at the grave, 432 ; true financial state after Nelson's death, the conduct of Earl Nelson towards her examined in light of new evidence, 4337 ; addresses Sir R. Barclay in 1805, 434 «. 2 ; had addressed Tyson, ib. ; Nelson's sisters uphold her, 436 n. 2 ; her benefactions to Earl Nelson's family, 437 n. 4 ; his conduct respect- ing Nelson's coat, 437 ; her annuity unpaid till 1808, 434 ; fresh embitter- ments, 438 ; her statement to the Rev. A. J. Scott regarding her traducers, 438, App. 409; her influence over Nelson, ?i^. ; 'glory,' 439. (1806-8) Affectionate intimacy with Nelson's relations, befriended by dis- tinguished ladies, 439-441, 440 ;/. 2 ; 136 Bond Street, 440 and n. 1, 441 ; ' beloved by all,' 440 ; her education of Horatia, 441-2, 451, 467, 468; her letter to Greville, 442, App. 510 ; her persistent support of poor kinsfolk, 443-4 ; intercedes with Queen of Naples for Mrs Grafer, 443, 444 ; continues her presents to Nelson's connections, 444 ; the Queen continues an affection- ate correspordence(i8o8), 444; (April,) Merton up for sale, ib. , and notes 2 and 3 ; addresses Lord St. Vincent, 444-5 ; and Abercorn, ib. ; justice of her claims seems not denied by Grenville, and is admitted by Canning, 447 «. i ; sends a pathetic memorial to Rose, 446; her piteous plight, 448; 'Old Q. 's ' refusal, ib. ; retires to Richmond, ib. ; her will, 443 ; debts, 448 «. 2, 449 ; visits Boltons and icturns to arrange affairs, the committee, ib. ; settlement, and her gratitude for, 450 ; Greville's reappearance on her scene, and her letter t", //'. . and App. 510; her (secuniary rehabilitation, ib. (1808-9) Richmond, royalty, and Bohemia; Horatia's education, Harrow speeches, 450-1 : ' Old Q's" unavailing bci|ucsl, 452 : Greville's death, ib. 538 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamilton, Emma, Lady, continued. (1810) Various abodes, 452; Mrs. Cadogan's death desolates her, 453 ; sympathy, her letter to Mrs. Girdle- stone, ib., and App. 511. (1810-12) Lavish kindness and hospi- tality despite debts again, 454 and notes 2 and 3, 455 ; Brighton, ib. ; visits, ib. ; revives petitions, 456. (1813, Jan.) The crash comes, her letters, 457-8 ; Temple Place, 457 ; rescued once more, 458 ; her two royal memorials, ib. ; Bond Street again, 458 ; admonishes Horatia, 459 ; parts with relics, 460; (July), re-arrest, 461 ; Smith Vjails her, 464 ; the publication of her letters, 461 ; its disastrous results, 461-2 ; evidence as to, con- sidered, 462-4. (1814) ist of August in Temple Place, ib. ; her unselfish interest in another ' dupe of villains," 465 ; everything sur- rendered for creditors, ib. ; full dis- charge, //'. ; flight ' with honour ' to Calais, 465, 466 ; at Dessein's, Quillac's, and the farm ; new last letters, 467-69 ; her last claims, 466, 467 //. 2, 468 ; the second farm, 467 ; Lawyers' letters and calumnies, 469; (December), 106 Rue Fran9aise, ib. ; her straits, 470. (1815, Jan.) Her buoyancy suc- cumbs, the lawsuit v. her trustee, 469 ; her death-illness and death-scene, ib. and 471; her Romanism, 471, 472; funeral, 472 ; mouldered monuments, 474 ; summary of her qualities and career, 472-74 ; epilogue, 475. Her few last surviving letters to Nelson, 6-9, 209, 214, 226-27, 235-38, 347-48, App. 489-501. Her Claims. — Greville's testimony, 130 «. 1, 171 ; Canning's, 142, 447 n. i ; Nelson's, 162. Those of 1793 discussed, 169-173, App. 481. Of 1795-1796, 182- 196, App. 483. That of June 1798, 205 to end of chap, viii., App. 486. Of Dec. 1798, for full assistance in stowing royal treasure, and in the secret passage episode of the royal flight to Palermo, 245 and seq. Of getting provisions for the Maltese state in 1799 and early in 1800, 315, 316 and n. 3. Generally, 400-1, 403, 416, 424, 425, 431. 433-437. 438, 445-8; real reasons for refusal, 446-7, and notes i and 2 ; (i8ii),456, 458; (1814), 466-7. Qualities — Ambitions, singularity of, 6, 9, 13, 14, 137, 161, 165, ig6, 224, 235, 309. 439- Artistic gifts, 15, 47, 56 71. I, 102, 103, 104, 105 n. 5, 177, 343. 393- Capacity for friendship, 9, 13, 15, 99, III, 238, 240, 242, 246, 445. Courage, 9, 10, 107, 235 and seq., 253. 255. 299. 300, 330, 342-3, 352 and seq., 393, 402, 423, 470. Devotion to mother and kinsfolk, 14, 285, 443, 453, 459. Disinterestedness, 13, 31, 79, 80, 81, 85, 90, 92, 93-102, 225 and seq., 255. 341. 408, 414, 416, 429-30. 443-4, 446, 454-5, 458. Energy, 8, 99, 142, 150, 151, 155, 162, 168, 199, 235 and seq., 244 and seq., 248 and seq., 253, 255, 275, 276, 278-9, 286, 309, 373, 393. 414. 441. 469-70. Enthusiasm, 2, 6, 11, 12, 107, 163, 166, 177, 181, 199, 223 and seq., 235 and seq., 275, 318, 377, 414. Expressiveness, 3, 6, 29, 223, 226, 228, 235, 240. Generosity, 11, 13, 23, 59, 80 and n. i, 85, III n. I, 151, 443-4, 454-5 and ^n. 5, 458. Genuineness, 89, 91 and n. i, 94, 161, 162, 172, 196, 211, 224 n. 3, 240, 349, 363, 385-7, 398. Gratitude, 99, 147, 151, 412, 413, 450. Homeliness, 8, 15, 24-25, loi, 128, 255. 373. 413. 425. 426. Humanity, 25, 97 n. i, 162, 255, 257, 276, 304, 308, 309, 310, 373, 451- Impulsiveness, 208, 223 and seq. , 335. 338 »■ I. Independence, 39, 79, 85, 92, 162, Industry, 146, 169-173, 182-196, 184 n. I, 208 and seq., 248 and seq., 275, 276. ' Natiiit,' 3, 4, 17, 109, no, 151, 15s, 162, 348, 385. 413. Sense of hjimour, 99, 108. 'Sensibility,' 3, 17, 59, no, in, 162, 321 n. I, 323, 340, 385, 394, 413, 425, 426, 4^9. 430- Simplicity, 19, 20, 87, 128, 137, 155, 413- Sympathy, 27, 28, 153, 156, 176-7, 199, 214, chapters viii. and ix. passim, 309, 328, 413 n. 1. Defects and Errors — Generally, 11-14, 25, 59, loi, 109, 131 71. I, 161, 162, 318, 340, 373, 378, 381, 386, 392, 401, 405, 413, 414, 418, 421, 441, 455. Admiration, love of, 50, 109, no, III, 392, 414. Aggressiveness, 104, 108, 109, 128, 334-4. 392-3. 414- Excitement, love of 14, 318 329, 332, 414. Extravagance, 405, 413, 414, 421, 434. 443. 455- Lack of self-control, 11, 14, 414. Love of '■ surprisi7ig people,' 14 and seq. , 109, 192, 418. Self-consciousness, 109, 161, 208, 309- Temper, 5, 11, 13, 14, S9. li> 95. 129, 147, 441, 460. Hamilton, Mrs., 35 «. 2. INDEX 539 Hamilton , Sir William { 1 730- 1803) [' riiny the Elder 'J, ii, 12,18/1.4, 20 n. i, 21 «. 1, 22, 23, 25, 29, 32, 45, 46, 52, 55 ; early life and first marriage, 64 and seg. and n. I ; early associations with Acton, 124 ; his part in the Trta juncta iii una foreshadowed, 31 ; description of, 33, 65 and seq. ; his friendship with Greville, 35; {1774), 36; his archceo- logical and artistic talents, his pub- lished works, lb. n. 2, 70, loi, 140 ; his picture-collecting, 37 ; scientific experiments, 48 w. i ; referred to in Hayley's verses, 63; (1782), 68 and seq. ; {1784), first acquaintance with Emma, 70 and seq. ; returns to Naples, 77; makes Greville his heir, ib. ; (1785), 79 and ieq. ; his invitation to Emma, 84, 86 ; his intentions con- trasted with Greville's, 85 ; (1786), 95 ; his reception of Emma at Palazzo Sessa, 88 and seq. ; intentions and settlement, 95 ; his tenderness and chivalry towards Emma, 99 and seq., 129 and seq. ; (1787), i6i ; and the 'belle's' stratagem, 112; (1789), his growing devotion to Emma, the anti- quarian excursion, 127 ; {1790-91), 128 and seq. ; and Greville as to settlement, 129 ; tentatives for marriage, 129, 130 ; privy councillor, 129 ; his perpetual neglect by ministers, 130 ?i. i ; the marriage project, 131 and r^^/. ; journey home, 131 ; London and festivities, 133 and seq. ; answers Gallini, 134; wedding, 136 ; return by way of Paris, 136 ; political situation and his present attitude towards it, 138 and seq. ; the two Sicilies, a shuttlecock, 141 ; his troubles with English visitors, 66, 148 ; correspondence between him, while sp)orting with the king, atid Emma, 148-150; illness (1792), 150 and seq. ; (1793), niusic with Lady Hamilton, 155; and botany, ib. \ first meet- ing with Nelson, 163 ; his friendship with, and enthusiasm for, 163-165, 168; (1794), on Sicilian Jacobinism, 173 "• 5 ; Medici's treason, 174 and n. 1 ; (1795), ill again, 177 ; and Countess Lichtenau (q.v.), 181; on Emma and politics, 182 ; on Spanish policy, 185 n. 1 ; in close correspond- ence with Acton about, 186 and seq. ; competes with Acton in forwarding (£795-96) documents to British minis- ters, 188 ; through theQueen and Emma detects real facts of Franco-Spanish conspiracy, and joins Acton in pressing the lukewarm Grenville into co-opera- tion with Naples, 189 and seq. ; urged into activity by his wife, his own state- ment of her position, 190-91 : his com- munication of naval secrets to Britain, 191 ; the King of Spain's secret letter announcing terms of .illiaiice with France, ib., 192; his custom as to despatches, 193 «. 2 ; as to special messengers, 194 n. i, 195 n. i ; (1797), and Acton regarding England and Mediterranean squadron, 197-99; on Grenville, 199 ; (1798), correspond- ence with Nelson ; (1798-99), his arrival, 202 ; endeavours to surmount obstacles of Franco-Neapolitan treaty of 1796 enforcing neutrality and ex- cluding anti-French ships from Medi- terranean harbours, 203 ; correspond- ence wnh Nelson, 204; his share in critical events and councils of June 17-22 ascertained, 205 and seq. ; the 'order,' 206-8; recitals, official and in draft, 206-7, 487 ; (June 17-22), in council, 206, 207 n. 5 ; and Acton, 206 notes 2 and 5, App. n. G ; sends Nelson Gallo's replies, 207 ; on Nelson's weighing anchor re- sumes correspondence, 214 ; Anglo- Sicily V. France and Spain, tb. ; know- ledge of instructions to Sicilian port- governors to make ' show of resistance ' pending conclusion of Austria's negotia- tions, 216 and 71. 4, and seq. ; impor- tant distinctions between private, official, and semi-official despatches, 2i6 ; (July 22), Nelson's letters to, of disappointment at failure both of public and private orders, his letters of extreme joy, 219-22 ; evidence to show- that change of tone was due to inter- vention of Queen's letter, see ' Nelson '; all along in correspondence with Nelson, and intending to run down and see him at Syracuse should Queen's letter not operate, or Acton's [q.v.) ' order in King's name,' 216 and n. 2 ; (Sept.), unwell, 227; nursed by over- tasked wife, 230 ; party to Nelson, 231 ; Nelson writes to, on policy after addressing Lady Hamilton, 233 and n. I ; pushes affairs with Grenville, 234; and Enuna, 235; her mention of, to Nelson, 29, 238; co-operation in preparations for ' royal ' escape to Sicily, 244 and seq. ; strongly attests wife's services, 246 ; (Dec. 21), his com- munications with Acton, Embassy only centre of energy and resource, 248 ; the flight, 248-255; his and wife's name absent from court lists of embarkation, 248 ; on the voyage, 257, 258 ; inten- tion to retire temporarily to England, ib. 260 ; depredations of his property, ib. 270; a 'philosopher,' mistrust of Rufro((/,f.), 271; (1799), attests Nelson's adherence to duty in staying in Sicily, 275 and Jifr/. ; Emma and y\cton, 276; Nelson, 280 n. i ; .acc|uaints him of Ruffo's perfidy, 288 ; ill, but starts with Nelson (June), 284, 289 ; hi.s part in events of June- August, 291-31 1 ; in Nelson's interview witii Ruffo, 298 ; (June 26), 302, 303; (June 27). 304; (July). 309 '' (•■^iiS"'''\ I^alermo pageant, 540 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Hamilton, Sir William — continued. 312-13 ; ' Nestor,' 314 ; worn and irrit- able, his borrowings from Nelson, /i^.and n. 2 ; with Acton, ib. and n. 4 ; crippled fortunes, 318; home slanders of, 319; decides to retire home, but supposes only for a time, 321; (1800, March), Ball's tribute to and invitation of, 321 ; definitely superseded, ib. ; forwards Nelson's letter to Grenville, 322 n. i ; (April 23), the journey to Malta and back, 322-326 ; reflections on his part in the present climax of passion between Elmma and Nelson, 324 ; (May), Queen wishes him to remain ambassador, 327 ; (June lo-Nov. ), the homeward journey, 329-340 ; offers civility to Lady Nelson, 337 «. 2; Fonthill, 338; (1801), in Piccadilly, 341 and seg. ; exhausted, 343 ; Greville's renewed influence over, 344 ; anxieties, 344 ; pension, ib. and 401 >t. 2 ; (February), to Nelson on Emma's health, 352 ?i. 6, 356 n. 4 ; on W. Nelson's eccentricity, 353 ; his part in the strange Prince of Wales episode, 356, 357, 358 ; belittles him, 369 ; wish for ministerial compensa- tion, hopes of governorship of Malta, 356 ; Tria juncta in uno, 366 ; selling wife's portraits, 26, 361, 363, 371; Yar- mouth visit frustrated, 371 ; to Nelson on Copenhagen, 375 ; prosiness and Staines visit, 376-7 ; Milford with Greville, 377 ; Merton, 378-384 ; objections, 379 ; on its charms to Nelson, 380-81 ; ' share-and-sbare alike,' 380, 382, 395 n. 2; content with, 382, 383 ; present to church, 383 ; accounts, 387 and n. 1 ; Piccadilly expenses, 388 ; Greville's warning and his complaint, ib. ; Nelson's ' best friend," ib. ; (1802), peerage scheme, 389-go ; condolence on Nelson's father's death, 391 ; (1803), the Milford and Cardiff tour, 393-397 ; last conju- gal tifT and reconciliation, 396-97 ; authentic account of death, 397-98 ; burial, 399 and n. 4 ; his will, 399-400 ; last expressions of devotion to Nelson, 400 ; and to Emma, 397 ; reflec- tions on them both and, 400 ; old dependants cared for after his death, 411, 430; App. 518. Qualities — Beliefs of, 68. Courtesy and good-/fUfnoy>- of, 65, 66, 96 71. I, 99 ; Emma on, 124 ; to visitors, 66, 148. Economy and extravagance of, 23 "• I. 37. 154. 276, 381, 387 n. I, 388. Indolence, 178. Love of music , 102. Perennial youth, 150. Phrases of , 12, 15 w. 2, 21 n, i. R,^fionali.'!n, 3. Handel [composer], 102. Hardy, Captain (June 17, 1798), 204, 205 and n. 2, 208 ; (1801), 345, 353 ; (1805), 427 and n. 2 ; (1806), 433, 435 ; App. 498, 526. Harfrere, Mrs., 36. Harrison, Mr. (1806-7), 44i- Hart, Emily. See Emma,-v Conjectures Lady Hamilton. I as to reasons ' Little' Emma. See fforthename, ' Carew,' Emma. J 51 and «. i. [musician], 15 ; (1786), 104. Hartley, Colonel, 61. Harvey, Mrs., traditions of, regarding Lady Hamilton examined. 51. Flaslewood [Nelson's solicitor], 437 n. i, 460. Hatton, Lady A., 149 and n. 2. Haydn [composer]. 333. Hayley, William (1745-1820), character and career, 63. 64 ; influence on Lady Hamilton of his Triumphs of Temper, II, 147 ; his friendship with, 8, 12, 17, 18 n. 4, 62, 63, 64 ; in Romney's studio, ib. ; (1786), invited to Naples, 94 ; (1791). 133. 147; (1800), 334, 341 and n. 2 ; (1801), 386 ; (1804), 99 ; (1805), 169 ; to Lady Hamilton, 430; App. 508. Heaviside [surgeon], 17 m. i ; (1808), 442. Hervey, Lord Augustus (1728-1804). Sec Bristol, Earl of. Lord, 92, 153 n. 3. Hippisley, Sir J. C. , 173 n. 5. Hodges, Mrs. (1793), 153. Hogarth, W. [artist], 57. Mrs. , 57. Holland, Lord, 171 ?/. 4, 172. Hompesch [Knight of Malta], (1798), 213, 231. Hood, Lord [Admiral], (1793), 153, 156, 157. 170; (1795-96). 182. Hope, Captain (June, 1798), 214 ; (Dec), 245. 252, 2t;4. Hoppner, J. [artist]. 20. Hoste, Captain. 7; (1798), sent by Nel- son to Lady Hamilton with first news of Nile victory, 223 n. i ; his account of Neapolitan ecstasy, 223 ; and the Queen, 224 ; Emma's kindness to, 227. Hotham 1705-96), 182. Humphries, Richard [Lady Hamilton's kinsman], 443. Hunter, Mrs., her statements regarding Lady Hamilton's last days criticised, 469 n. 3, 474. Hyde, Anne [see ' Solari, Marchesa Di ']. Ingram, Jonathan, 41. Jacobins and Jacobinism, 21 ; and St. Januarius, 97 «. 3; (1791). 122; lam- pooners, 119 ; meaning of, for Great Britain, 141 and seg. ; ' mobbing system ' of, and Nelson, 143 ". i ; his detesta- tion of. 239 ; and Nai)les, ib. ; begiiis to affect offended nobles, 144; (1793), INDEX 541 in Naples, 152, 154 ; libels by, 153/': 5. 156; {1794), 172 and seq.; in Sicily, 173; executions, 174; (1795-97). 182; (1797), 196 ; disturbances at Rome, ib. ; fugitives to Naples, 198 ; (1798), black- mail Naples, ib. ; (June 17), effect of Nelson's arrival on, 202 ; Emma on, 214 ; (June 30), already plot the death of King and Queen, 215 ; insolence and its disappointment, 233 ; Lord St. Vincent on, 224, 227 ; (August, Sept., and Oct.), 231, 232; (Nov.), fresh con- spiracies at Naples, 239, 243; (Dec), Nelson's allies against, 245 ; spies on Emma and Nelson, 247 ; their Neapoli- tan pillage, 258; (1799, Jan.), 260; Neapolitan , distinguished and analysed, 261-65; action of Patriots' and 'Eletti,' 265andj«<7. ; ' Parthenopean Republic,' 260, 266 and seq. , 269, 273 ; part played by St. Januarius in, 97 n. 3, 266, 267 ; 'Civic Guard,' 268, 270; Lazzaroni's moderation towards, 268 ; poets and pamphleteers, 269 ; paper systems, 270 and n. i ; (March), Nelson already wishful to crush, 274 ; (June), Repubhc which had touched provinces limited once more to Naples, 272 ; hopes from Frenchfieet, 276; Queen prays Nelson's aid against, 282 ; Foote's commission v., 282 ; (June), Ruffo's armistice, 288 ; conduct as to capitulation and armis- tice and Nelson's attitude and policy fully discussed, 291-31 1 ; (June 19), refuse clemency, 293 ; (June 26), some escape, fate of others, 303 and seq. ; (June 27), 304, 305, 328. Jerocades [' Patriot '], 291. Jesuits, 98-115. Jewitt ['Jematt'], Mrs. (1814), Lady Hamilton's unselfish interest in, 464, App. 512. Johnson, Dr., 26. Joseph II. of Austria, 115; (1791), death, 138. Kauffmann, Angelica [artist], 20, 90, 259- Kaunitz [Austrian Premier], 115. Keith, Lord (1799). replaces St. Vincent, 282 ; summons Nelson to Minorca, 287 ; appoints to chief Mediterranean command, 317 n. 2; (1800, January), it expires, 321. Kelira EiTendi (Dec. 22. 1798), 251. Kellermann, General, 144. Keppell, Admiral, 96. Kidd, Francis, 41 n. 2. Mrs. [Lady Hamilton's grand- mother], of Hawarden, 51, 71, 72. Mary [wife of William Kidd], 43. see Mrs. 'Cadogan.' Thomas [cousin of Lady Hamilton], 40. William ['labourer'], 41, 43, 443, 455- Klopstock [po(;t] (1800), 335, Knight, Mr. R. Payne, 104 n. 3, 395. Cornelia, Miss, 42, 100, 171, 227, 230, 231, 240 ; (180D, March), 322 ; (April), her verses, 325 and //. 2 ; (June lo-November), 329 and seq. ; (1801), verses, 372. Lady, 240. Ladmore, Mrs., 43. Lancaster, Mr. and Mrs., 380. Landor, W. S. [poet], quoted on Lady Hamilton, 343 ; as to her, 429 ; App. 519- Langford, Captain (1805), 422. Lansdowne, Lord (1802), 396. Lavater, 180. Lavie, Mr. [solicitor], (1808), 449. Lawrence, Sir T. [artist], 20. 316. Lazzaroni, the, 9, 97, 122. 143 ; (1793), 153; (1794). 173; (1797). 197; (1798). and Queen, 199; and Nelson, 202; (Sept. and Oct.), 231; (Dec), 241, 244, 248; (Dec. 21), 249; (1799), 260, 265 and seq. ; remain staunch, 267, 270 n. 2 ; their leaders, 268 ; conduct to, when betrayed, moderation to ' Pat- riots,' 268 ; betrayed by Roccomana [q.v. ), 268 ; Stand their ground, ib. ; at first gulled by Championnet {q.v.), 269; dispersed, 270; (June), 291; the Hamiltons their friends, 299, 308 ; and ("aracciolo, 290 n. 2, 306. Le Brun, Madame Vigee, on Lady Hamilton, 5 7t. 5, 105 n. 5 ; (1789), 127 n. 4, 361, 371 n. 4 ; (1803), 393 «. 2 ; App. 516. Legge, Heneage, Honourable, 67 ; (1791), on Lady Hamilton to Greville, 131, 132, 398. Mrs. (1791), 131. Leopold, Grand Duke of Tuscany (1779), 115, 124; (1791), accedes to Austrian throne, family council at Vienna, 138 ; (1792), 149. Prince of Naples, 108, 115 n. i, 138 n. I, 249 ; (1798), 257, 327 ; at Merton, 386. Lewold, Miss, 421. Lichtenau, Countess of, 24 ; account of, 180-S1. Lind, Mrs., at Merton, 386; (1805), condolence with Lady Hamilton, 431. Linley, Mr. [manager of Drury Lane], 46. Liverpool, Lord, 458; (1814), 468. Lock [consul], 260, 276 «. 2 ; (1799), misfeasances, 315 //. 2. Mrs., 276 n. 2; reward by Govern- ment. 445. Locker [artist], 385 n. i. Lolli [violinist], 57. Louis, Captain (1799), 281 ; (September), 314; (i8oi),34S, 3s6«. 3; (1804), 4x3; (t8o^), 430. Philippe [afterwards French King], II", '/. I. 542 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Louis XVI. (1789), 126; (1791), 138, 143; (1792-93), 152. XVII., 153. Lovell, the Rev. — , 179. Lucian, 224. Luigia, Princess of Naples, marriage, 138. Lunardi ( balloonist], 60. Luttrell, Lady Elizabeth (1786), loi. Lutwidge, Mrs., 382 n. 3. Lynch, Sir William [Hamilton's prede- cessor at Naples], 65. Lyon, Charles [Lady Hamilton's brother], 40. Emily [see Emma, Lady Hamilton]. Henry [ ' smith of Nesse, ' Lady Ham- ilton's father], 40 ; his marriage certifi- cate, ib. n. 2 ; ' arms," 414. iVIary [see Mrs. ' Cadogan ']. Macartney, Charles [Greville's in- timate], 38. Lord, 102 ; (1796), 140. Macaulay, Mrs. Catlierine [authoress], 48. - Mr. [contractor], 183 n. 3. Macdonald, General, his part in Januarius' procession (Jan. 1799), 267 ; on entry of French into Naples, 269 ; replaces Championnet, 270 ; (April), retires from Naples, 290. Mack, General, 9; (1798), 232, 233, 234; (Nov.), 235; short-lived suc- cesses, 239; (Dec), in despair, ib. ; Nelson on, 239 n. 4, 256 ; his com- plete rout, 239, 245; (Dec. 23), on Vanguard, 256 ; at Capua, 257. Mackau, 'Citizen' [ambassador] (1793), 152. Mackinnon [contractor], 183. Macmahon, Colonel, App. 512. Macpherson, Sir John (1798), tribute of, to Lady Hamilton's heroism, 255. Mahoney, Countess of (1787), 101. Maiden, Lady (1791). '47- Malmesbury, Lady (1792 and 1796), 105 n- 5; (1791). 147. 320 n. I, 343. Lord, on Nelson, 10 n. i. Malta (1798), bribed by France, 202 it. 1, 204 ; (June- August), 207 n. 5, 211 n. 2, 213-215, 230, 234; and Nelson, 238 and n. 4, 245 ; (1799). 272, 279, 314, 315, 316, 398; (1800), 321, 322-327, 330 «. 3; (1801), 356. Mann, Sir Horace (1780), 124. Mansfield, l>ord (1810), 455. Maria Princess of Naples, marriage, 138 n. I ; (1798), 243, 250, 252, 256. Queen of Portugal, 148. 'Carolina' [Charlotte], Queen of the two Sicilies(i7S3-i8i4), 7. 9. "- iS '"^^" I and 2, 23, 48 «. I, 90 ; (1786), 103, 112, 156 ; (1777), her right to sit in council, 119, 204 ; her character, 126, 127, 152; hrr education and marriage, 114; her freemasonry, 115, 139. 144; her early enlightenment and reforms, 119-121 ; her experiment in monarchical social- ism, 121 ; her need for an able financier and leader in 1779, ^23 ; beginnings of pro-English bias, 124 ; reasons for Acton's ascendency with, 124 ; pro- Austrian policy, 118, 125 ; effects on her of French Revolution, 126, 138 and seq. ; (1790), her first public recogni- tions ol Emma, 128 ; (1791), her policy and its objects, 138 and seq. ; visits Vienna and Rome, ib. ; her fury with France, 139 ; ancestral ideas of duty ; ' de Bourboniiation,' ib. ; Acton'scom- mission, 140 ; England's aloofness, 141 ; becomes bureaucratic, 143 ; finds her ' enlightenment ' has favoured Jacobinism, 144 ; methods of first re- pression, and efforts for anti-GaUic coalition, 144-5; 'camera oscura,' 145 ; Lady Hamilton's message to, from her sister, 145, 146 ; gaieties in disaster, 148 ; (1791), receives Lady Hamilton with favour, 146; (1794), Sir William's illness, 150; (1793), prompted by revenge, 152 ; redoubles defences against imported Jacobinism, 153; 'Junta,' ib.; organises second coalition, ib. ; efforts to save her sister, id. ; her craving for Emma's sympathy, 153-4; Anglo-mania, 154, 155, 166, 168, 177, 181 ; welcomes Nelson, 162- 3, 165-7 ; fresh conspiracies, 167 ; through Emma made enthusiastic for Nelson, 168 ; her close intimacy with Emma, ib. ; (1794), resolves more than ever to go ' thorough' v. Jacobins, 172- 175, and cf. 144 ; her embarrassments and her new tribunal — 'Cerberus,' 174 ; a crusade preached v. Jacobins, 175 ; parts with jewels to support war v. France, 175 ; hails British victories, ib. ; her correspondence with Lady Hamilton, 176 and seq. ; home ex- plosions arrested, but foreign defeats and defections exasperate her, 183-4 ; (1795-1796), her part in obtaining the King of Spain's letter to her husband, 184-196 ; her close confabulations with Emma, 190, 193, 199; (1796), anger at Britain's intention to evacuate Mediter- ranean and at her compelled compact with France, 183 ; furious at Peace of Brescia (see ' Treaties ') enforcing Nea- politan neutrality, ib. ; wishes Lord Grenville not to compromise her by the information confided through Emma to Sir William, 186 and seq. ; her detestation of Spain, 189 and n. 1 ; her close confabulation with and great trust in Emma accounted for, 190, 191 ; the crucial letter from the King of Spain announcing secretly the terms of an alliance with France to Ferdinand, 191, 192, 194 n. I ; her letter to Emma as to an exceptional courier, 193 ; (1797), cheered by English successes, but dejected by foreign failures, 196, 203 n. 4, 211 ; more Anglophil than INDEX 543 Maria Carolina — continued. ever, 196 ; becomes conciliatory at home, Vanni deposed, 197 ; joins in pressing England for squadron, 197; her feverish impatience for, 199 ; her extreme reliance on Emma's influence, 199; her indissociability from, 200; (1798), effects on, of Nelson's arrival, 202 and w. 4; and after, 214; licr eager desire to break enforced neu- trality, 204 ; (June 17), her secret action at Emma's instance confirmed, 208 and seq. ; nature of, 210; 'a royal letter,' 217, 218 ; a letter of indemnity, 219 ; will not allow her name to transpire, 210, 220; instructions to port gover- nors, 210, 216 n. 4 ; her rage over Malta, 213-215; Emma indispensable ; renewed Anglo-mania, 213-214 ; dis- like of Gallo {q.v. ), 214 ; Emma on hor, ib. ; (July 19), time for her ' open sesame' delivered to Nelson, 215; at first ineffective, 219 ; evidence to show that Nelson's quick change from dis- appointment to rapture on July 22 was due to her letters of intervention, 216, 219 n. I, 220, 222 ; her transports at battle of Nile related by Emma to Nelson, 6, 8, 223 and seq., 226 ; App., Part II. A. ; and from other sources, 223 ; her letter to Emma, 223 and n. i to 226 n. 2 ; to Circello, ib. ; unwell on Nelson's arrival from Egypt, 228 ; continues ill, 230; Nelson's manifesto to Lady Hamilton v. procrastination for her, mentions dignity of, 233 ; catches his promptness from Emma, 235; her 'regency,' 235 and n. 4; conversation with Emma, 238 ; cheered by brief Neapolitan successes at Rome (Nov.), plunged in despair by defeats, pities her husband, 239 ; fresh home conspiracies, 239, 247; devotions, 240; pride under reverses, 241 ; (Dec), rage and despair, 243 ; first disinclination to follow Nelson's advice and Emma's lead, 243; letters to her daughter, 243, 250, 256 ; her doubts, 244 ; relies wholly on Emma and Nelson, who persuade and protect her, 246 and seq. ; the original plan for her escape, 247, 249 ; altered, ib. ; causes of her hesitation, 248; scene within palace, ib. ; episode of her flight, 250 and seq. ; her account of the escape, 252 ; the voyage, storm, and Emma's heroism, 255 and seq. , arrival, bereavement, and grief, 258 and seq. ; devotions, 257, 278 ; reflections on flight, 260 ; events at Naples, ib. ; (1799). and Luisa Sanfelice (q.v.), 272; Leghorn sur- renders; Tuscany in revolt, 273, 276 ; (June 11), begs Nelson to undertake the suppression of Neapolitan Jacobins, 282; and Mrs. Cadogan (qv.), 286; (June 13), forbidden to accompany Nelson to Naples, 288 ; suspects Ruffo, 288 n. 2, 300 «. 3 ; her counsel to Nelson, 297 ; ascribes mischief to ' Eletti,' 299 ; Emma's action for, 299- 300 ; her humanity, 304 n. 3 ; (August), her royal recognition of Emma's ser- vices, 314 ; withholds grain from Malta, 316; (autumn-New Year), gambles, 318; (1800, March), exasperated at probable transference of Malta, 322, 327; (May), her plans for a journey with Nelson and the Hamiltons, 327 ; her letter, 327 ; wishes Hamilton not to resign his post, ib. ; her intense ex- pressions of trust in and friendship for Emma, 328; (June 10), journey to Leghorn, Trieste, etc., and Vienna with Hamiltons, 329 ; presents, 329 ; part- ing with Emma, 332 ; the portrait, 355; (1801), resumes correspondence with her, 363 and n. 5 ; writes to Nelson, 375 ; and to Emma, 397 ; (1804), 402 ; addresses British ministers on Emma's behalf, 409 ; her dis- tressing situation, 410; (1804), de- spairs at Nelson's quitting Mediter- ranean, 418 ; (1806), writes to Emma, 438; (1808), disregards Enmia's peti- tion for Mrs. Grafer, 443 and n. 3 ; continues, however, affectionate corre- spondence, 444 ; fears that discussion of Emma's claims may compromise her, ib. ; gratitude, ib. ; much beset, ib.\ (i8io), again an exile, 454; (1814), death, 471; App. 511; Letters of, to Lady Hamilton, 13, 139, 148, 176- 177, 190, 199, 202 11. 4, 214, 223 n. 1, 226 n. 2, 229 n. 4, 244 n. I, 245- 247, 250, 284 n. 2, 288 «. 2, 292 71. I, 299 n. I, 300 n. 3, 304 n. 3, 320 n. I, 327, 332, 363 71. 5, 397, 402, 484, 485 71. 2 ; the Queen and Lady Ham- ilton's Attitudes, {q.v.), 134. Maria Theresa, 113-115, 114 «. 2, 243- Marie Antoinette, 9, 126, 136; (1791), 138, 145; (1792 -1793). 152. 153 "■ 5- Marlborough, Duke of (1802), 393. Duchess of, analogy to, 154. Masham, Abigail, 154. Masquerier, James [artist], 21. Massa, General [' Patriot ' commander] (1799, June), 298 ; misled. 302. Matcliam family, the (1802), at home at Merton, 386; the Milford tour, 394; (1804), 414; (1805), remain at Merton to bid Nelson farewell, 424; (1806), Emma's warm upholders, 436 notes i, 2, and 3; (1811-1812), invite her, 456; (1813), 458; (1814), assist her, 461, 470; plans and invitations, 464. Matcham, Mr. (1800), 334. Mrs. [Nelson's pet sister] (1800), 334 : (1803), 405 : (1810), 455. George [their son], 333 //. 3, 386; (1805), sees Nelson off, 424; (1813) visits Emma at Temple Place, 461. 544 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Matcham, Miss, letter to Lady Hamilton, 414; (1813), 457. Maynard, Lady [Nancy Parsons], 24. Medici, Luigi di, Cavaliere (1789), 123 ; (1799), 'regente,' 145, 174; his early treason, ib. n. 2; (1794), trial of, 174; and Queen, 199. Medicis, Catherine of, 119. M^jean [French commandant of San Elmo] (1799, June), 291-311; motives, and apathy to ' Patriots, '294; hostages, ib. ; threatens bombardment, 298 ; selfishness. 301 ; bombards, 307. Melville, Lord, and Emma's 'claims,' 205, 401 ; (1805), 448. Commodore (1787), and Lady Hamihon, 107. Merlin [mechanic], ^j. Metastasio [poet], 121. Meyricks, the (1803), 399. Michelle, Count [French ambassador at Naples], 152 V. i. Micheroux, Chevalier (1797), 198 ; (1799, June), ib. and n. 3, 292, 298, 301. Middleion, Lord {1784), 70, 83. Minasi, Padre [musician and antiquarian], 120. Minto, first Earl of [see Elliot, Sir Gilbert]. Lady [and see Elliot, Lady], 320 n. I. Mirabeau, 143. Moira, Lord, and Emma's music, 104 «. 3. Moliterno, Prince [general] (1795), 175 ; (1799, Jan.), 266 ; and Lazzaroni (^.z'. ), 268 ; App. 500. Monaco, Prince of (1789), 128. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. John [Lady Hamilton's uncle and aunt], 42. Ephraim and Catherine, 42 //. 5. Morland, Henry [painter], 33. Moutray, Mrs., 157. Mulgrave, Lord, 163. Munster, Count (1796), 193. Murray, Lady Augusta, 148 «. i. Nancy [Lady Hamilton's servant], 421, 448, 460. Naselli, General (1799), 267. Nelson, Charlotte [afterwards Lady Bridport], 25, 41 ; (1800), 334: (1801), 361; and n. 5, 371, 376-7. 382, 384 ; (1803), 405, 407; (1804), 413, 415; {1806-7), constantly at Merton, 439. Horatia [afterwards Mrs. Ward], 12 n. S, 13 n. 6, 14, 23, 25, 27, 162 ; birth and christening, 352 and n. 3, 353-355. 368, 370, 381, 383. 384. 38s n. I, 403, 404, 407, 412 ; (1804), small- pox, 417; fixed at Merton, ih. ; (1805), 422, 424; to be styled 'Nelson," 427 n. I ; (1806-8), 434, 438 n. I ; 'cousin,' 439, 441, 442, 444 ; proposal for pension to, 447 n. 2 ; education, 441-2, 451, 467, 468 ; (1809), 452 ; (1810), 455 n. 5 ; (1812-13), 456, 457 and stq; (1813), 458; maternal admonitions to, 459-60; her cup, 460; (1^14), flight with Lady Hamilton to France, 465, 466 and w. 3, 467 71 . 3, 469 n. 3, 470 71. 3 ; and Earl Nelson, 472. Nelson, the Rev. Edmund [Nelson's father] (1798), 240 ; (1800), 334, 336; (iSor), visits Merton, 381; (1802, April), death, 390 ; Lady Hamilton mentior.s, App. 515- Horatio, 'The Younger,' (1800), 334, 383. 385 «• I ; (1802), 394; (1805), designed by his uncle to marry Horatia, 418 ; buried in Nelson's vault, 432 n. 2. Horatio, Viscount (1758-1805), 14, 20 71. I, 46, 137, 142; sobriety, 333 ;?. 3 ; on Lady Hamilton's kindliness, 24-27 ; his idealisation of her exempli- fied in a new and remarkable instance, 25-26, 225 ; his treatment of Lady Nelson treated in advance, 29 ; his keen desire for fatherhood, 29 ; his amativeness, I57«., 226^. i ; 'electric,' 10 and w. I ; exaggerativeness, 358 ; dislike of crowds, 381 ; heart complaint in his family, 415 71. i; his character and antecedents considered, 157-162, 368; Scott's tribute to, 160 ;z. 3 ; his idealisa- tion of Emma, psychologised and analysed, 2, 9, 10, 22, 24, 25, 27, 28 and 7t. 2, 29, 161 and se(]., 163-4, 225, 274-6, 285, 323-4, 348-52, 363, 390, 438-9, 473 ; (1793, Sept. 10), arrival at Naples, 156; description of his recep- tion by court, 162 ; by Hamiltons, 163; first impressions of Emma, 165; awakes Naples, 166 ; his parting enter- tainment, 167 ; his view of Jacobinism chimes with Europe's, 173; (1795), 166, 172; (1796), his anger at minis- terial lukewarmness in prosecuting the war, 183; (1797), 196 ; his view of Eng- lish Government and Mediterranean squadron, 196 ; his views prevail at Naples, 197; (1798), Grenville on, 199 7t. 2; sails for Mediterranean, 200; chases French fleet, 201 and seq, ; approaches Naples, 202; 'conservated,' 202 n. 4 ; his instructions, projects, and prospects, 203 and seq. ; his letter tc Hamilton, 203 ; the obstacles to be faced, ib.; Hamilton's correspondence with, 204 ; his need and wish for a roving ' credential,' 204, 206; his mes- sage to Hamiltons (June 17), his further requisitions, 206 ; the order ' in King's name,' 206 and seq. ; his two letters from Emma, 209-210 ; his hitherto disputed reply to one of them proved, 211 ; on setting sail immedi- ately resumes correspondence with Hamiltons, 'laurels or cypress," 213, 222; on Malta, ib.; 'co-operation,' ib.; in hot pursuit, 215 ; (July 19), at Syracuse, ib.; episode and significance of 'Governor of Syracuse lett r," and INDEX 545 Nelson, Horatio, Viscount — co?ilinued. events of July 19-23 fully considered, 216-223 I 'show of resistance, 217, 218 ; his disappointment, and inefiicacy both of Acton's irregular order and Queen's private and secret letter, 219 ; his desire to hasten the watering, etc., of fleet, time all important, 219 and «. i ; until late on July 22, did not expect to be ready till 23rd, 219 n. i, 220; his two letters of invitation to Hamilton and Lady Hamilton, 219, 220 ; his two rapturous letters following them, 220- 222 ; evidence that change of tone was due to intervention of ' Queen's letter,' 216, 219 «. I, 220, 222; the Arethusa letter considered, 221, 222; his letters explain each other, 221 n. 4 ; sails re- fitted and reheartened, 222 and seq. ; habit of rehearsing his plans, 223 ; battle of the Nile, and its effects, 223, 224 ; as related in Emma's correspon- dence with him of this date, 6, 8, 223, 224 ; his letters to her, 224 n. 3 ; to his wife, ib. n. 4 ; his feel- ings towards Emma, 225, 226, 232, 23S1 283, 285 ; (Sept. 22), arrival in Naples, 228-9 ; his account of meet- ing with Lady Hamilton, 228-9 5 ^^'s bad state of health, 229 and «. 4 ; at Castellamare, ib. ; Lady Hamilton's party for his birthday, 230, 231 ; consults Lady Hamilton (Oct. 3), his political manifesto addressed to her for the Queen's attention, 231-233 and w. I, App. 493 ; plans and movements, 234 ; parting letter to Emma before sailing for Malta, 234 ; leaves Emma as vicegerent, her letters to him, 135 and seq. ; his important declaration as to unauthorised Maltese capitulations, 238 and n. 2; (Nov.), returns, Naples declares war, 238 ; starts for Leghorn, which surrenders, 239; (Dec), returns, his avowal of Emma's influence on him, 240; his preparation with her for royal escape, 144 and seq. ; omens, 244 ; his view of Neapolitan situation, 244 ; protects coasts, 245; his plans, 247 and seq. ; his official accounts of Enmia's services, 246, 252, 255 ; (Dec. 21), irritated at Acton's delays and stolidity, 248; merchants look to him and Hamilton for protection, 248; brooks no more delay, 249 ; account of the escape, 252 ; the scene of, 253, 254 ; voyage, tempest, and arrival at Palermo, 255 and seq. ; his tribute to Emma, 257 ; reception on arrival, ib. ; present to Emma, 259 ; lodges with Hamiltons, 259; offers ship to take ailing Hamiltons home, 260 ; disgust at Neapolitan events, 265 ; opinion of Ruffo, 271 ti. 3 ; anxiety for Egypt and Malta, 272 and n. 2, 273; and Lady Nelson, ib.; his pre-occupations, 273 and seq. ; (March), already declares willingness to suppress Neapolitan Jacobins, 274 ; and France, ib. ; slights of, 273, 274 ; sends Trou- bridge to Procida, I'unis, 274 ; duty detains him in Sicily, evidence that, ib. and seq., 289; ill health, 275; Lady Hamilton's sympathetic activity, 275- 6 ; his verses to Emma, 278 ; Trou- bridge's mission to Procida, 278-9 ; (March), opinion of Caracciolo, 279 ; (May), hears of French fleet, move- ments and motives up to June 17, 279- 289 ; (May), and Hamiltons, 281 and seq.; bequests, 281 ; (May 28), re-lands at Palermo, Foote's commission, Fou- droyant, 282 ; (June), invitation to St. Vincent, 282; (June 11 and 12), Queen's invitation to suppress Jacobins, his feelings, 283-4 ! Emma's, 284 ; his mixed feelings, 286 ; vexations and affronts, 287 ; and Minorca, 287 71. 2 ; decides to start for Naples, embarks (June 13) and disembarks (June 14) the Crown Prince, takes fourth short cruise of survey, 288 ; learns Ruffo's unauthorised armistice, 288 ; starts with Hamiltons for Naples, 289 ; short view of his approaching policy, 289-90; Jacobin 'mob-system,' 143 ; (June 25), concerts battle-place with IDuckworth, 289 n. 5, 296, 297 ; state of affairs on arrival, 291-297 ; the terms of capitulations and armistices, 295-6 ; Nelson's views on, 297 ; joy of loyalists, 297, 299 ; his memorandum to Ruffo, 297 ; he annuls armistice and capitulations, 298 ; interview with Ruffo, ib.; signatories to capitulations, protest, 298 ; castles Uovo and Nuovo surrender, 298 ; Emma's '^nergy and resource, 299-300; distii'cao., between armistice with French and capitulations with Patriots, 300 ; (June 25), refuses to let rebels 'quit or embark,' iL n. 2; (June 26), does not change front to rebels, 302 ; will not oppose ' embarka- tion,' 303; awaits King's orders, ib.% his after-vindication, 303-304 ; Govern- ment endorses his policy, 304 ; Carac- ciolo, 305-307; demands from Ruffo con- cerning, 306; King's influence, 306 ». 3; the 'sentence,' 307; attacks St. Elmo, ib. 308 ; on Lady Hamilton's labours and humanity, 308 ; celebration of August i, 311 ; commanding admiral, ib.; episode of Caracciolo's resurrection, 311 ; (Aug. 9), Palermo, 311 ; the signal pageant in his honour, 312-13; Bronte and other honours, 312 - 13 [and for Emma's part in, see ' Hamilton, Emma, Lady, and reference to App. there given]; Acton, 314 w. 4 ; 'Jove,' 314, 340 ; (August- December), his many and various activities, 314-316; Port Mahon, and care for \Ialta, 315 ; (Sept. 22), lands again at Palermo, sends to free Rome, ib.; Barbary 2 M 546 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Nelson, Horatio, Viscount — continued. States, deplores Napoleon's elusion of British fleet, ib. ; dejection, ib. and 316 ; home annoyances. East India Company's grant, 317 ; temporary chief command, 317 n. i ; tone of letters, 317, 318 ; letter to Lady Hamil- ton, 318 ; ' Dame Fortune,' home slanders, 319 ; refuted, 320 ; again under Keith's orders, 321 ; aims and annoyances, ib. ; Leghorn, Malta, capture of Le Ginireiix, ib. and 322 ; (March), Maltese blockade progressing, re-lands at Palermo, 322 ; (Ap il 23), the journey to Malta and back, 322- 26 ; reflections on his present climax of passion, 323-25, 340 71. 3, 370; his recollections of voyage, 325 n. i ; (May 20), Palermo, announces his return home, 326 ; the homeward journey, 329-40 ; Leghorn, 329-30 ; ignorance of big world, 330-31 ; Vienna, 332; Dresden, 333; Hamburg, 335 ; Yarmouth and London, 336 ; medal, ib. n. 2 ; and Lady Nelson, 337 ; events in London, 337 - 8 ; Fonthill, 338 ; scene with wife, ib. ; repudiation and provision, 338-9 and n. 3, 349 n. 3; 'outcast,' ib. n. 4, 375 ; the breach considered, 339-40 ; (r8oi), and Flaxman, 341 ; fresh causes for admiration of Emma, 341-43, 346; ill, but eager for action. Northern Coalition summons him to confront it, anxiety for Emma, lawsuits and vexations, 343 - 46 ; parting from Emma, San Josef, 346-7 ; imminence of Horatia's birth, the singular Thom- son correspondence with Emma, 347 and seq. ; Nelson's agitation and pious affection, 350-52 ; a remarkable letter to Lady Hamilton, 351 ; another ex- pressing attachment for her character, 352 ; birth of Horatia, 352 and n. 3 ; his transports and anxiety as shown by letters, 353-55 ; bequeaths the Queen's portrait to Emma, 355 ; anagrams, ib. and n. 2 ; the Prince of Wales episode, and his letters on, 358-66, 371 ; and Sir William, 360 and seq., 362; de- termines to 'run up to London,' 362 ; praises Emma's constancy, 362 ; about Greville, ib. ; affinities to Emma, 363 ; his canonisation of, 26, 363 ; (February), hurries up to London, 364 and seq.; (March), visits Horatia, 370 and n. x; departure for Copenhagen, ' 366 and seq. ; patriotism, 367, 368 ; | vents feelings to Emma, 368 ; wish to j retire to Bronte, ib. ; hopes for a visit j at Yarmouth, 371 ; on Hamilton's sell- , ing portraits, 371 «. 4; Copenhagen, fresh slights and misconstructions, 374- 76 ; Emma's birthday, 375 ; (July i), retiu"ns, only to be ordered off soon to I Channel, ib. ; visit to Staines, 376 ; j Parker's death, 377 ; kept off Kentish 1 coast, ib. ; forwards Hamilton's in- terests, 378 ; recollections, 378 ; acquisi- tion of Merton Place, 378-84 ; its church, 384 ; offers Merton to Emma, 379 ; divides expenses, 380 ; entry into, 381 ; generosity to father, ib. n. 7 ; exhausted, 383 ; liberality practised on, 35 ; wine, 386 ; accounts, 387 ; prefers Merton to social solemnities, 391 ; (1802), the Beckford-Hamilton peerage plot, 389- 90 ; (April), grief at father's death, Hamilton's sympathy, 391-2 ; gene- rosity, 390; (June), Eton, 451 71. i; (July), the Milford and Cardiff trip and demonstrations, 394-96; (1803), Sir William's death, and Nelson's letter, 397-8 ; the will, and his suspicions as to Greville, 399 ; Hamilton's expres- sions about Nelson, 400 ; applies for Emma, 401 ; (May), a wedding and a christening, 402, 403 ; departs for the Mediterranean, 402-3 ; on Greville's conduct to Emma, 403 ; his farewell words, 404 ; occupations and ob- sessions, 406-7 ; (1804), writes to Horatia, 407 ; and King and Queen of Naples, 408, 410 and ». 4 ; daemonic, 410 ; ill-health and dispiritments, 409- 10, 411, 418; on guard, his move- ments; Emma, Merton, and Horatia haunt him, 411-12 ; (1804), the regained portrait, 412 ; anxiety for Emma and Horatia, 351, 417; his announcement concerning Horatia, 417; (1805), pre- pares to quit Mediterranean, 418 ; his movements in search of French squadron, 419 and seq.; West Indies, 420 ; letters opened, 421 ; secures safety of Cadiz, his further efforts, lands at Spithead (Aug. 18), 422 ; at Merton for the last time, 422, 423 ; parting hours and scenes of farewell, 423-4, 422 n. 3 ; forebodings, 424 and «. 3 ; last mes- sages before Trafalgar to Emma and Horatia, 424-26 ; Trafalgar and death, 426-29, App. 524-26 ; his body's home- coming, 429, 431 ; Scott's description, 431-2 ; funeral, 432 ; his sword, 426 n. 1 ; his sword of honour, 465 and w. 2 ; his coat, 430, 437 ; particulars about sarcophagus, 432 «. 2; his will, 434; his annuity to Emma does not take effect till 1808, and even then not wholly, 434, and App. 489 ; Lady Hamilton's devotion to his memory and wishes, 441-2 ; his solemn assurance to Pitt as to Emma's claims, 445 ; Mrs. Damer's bust of, 67 n. 5 ; his verses, 3 and «. I, 277 342. Qualities — A77ibition, 160. Fanatifism, 406. Infectious enthusiasTn, 161, 166, 419, 423-. Intuitio7i, 159 71. I, 232, 241, 410, 419, 420. Mag7ia7timity , 409. INDEX 547 Nelson, Horatio, Viscount — continued. Poetical phrases of, 3 «. i, 7 «. i, 10, 213 n. I. Religious ideas, 160. Simplicity and generosity of, 158. Spontaneity, 160, 161. Theatricality, 159. Unselfishness, 223, 406, 409, 419. Various letters of, alluded to [Ch. I., passim and App. Pt. 11. D. and E.], 99 «. I ; on .Sardinia, 141 n. 2 ; (1801), of Greville, 109 n. 2, 402 n, 5, 406-7, 409, 411, 412, 417, 418, 419, 421, 426, 429. His wording regarding Emma's several 'Claims.' [See 'Lady Hamilton, Emma,' and 'Claims' under same heading.] Frances, Viscountess, 29, 157 ; character of, 158 ; (1798), Nelson to, 229 n. 3 ; letters to, from Lady Hamil- ton, 227, 229 n. I, 231 ; App. 491 ; Lady Hamilton on, 238; (1798, Oct.), 273; (1799), 285 and ?i. 2; and East India Company's grant, 317; (iSoo), her injuries considered, 323-4, 326, 336; absent in Nelson's welcome, 336 ; scene with husband and Lady Hamilton, 338 ; eventually repudiated, 338) 339 ^"d ^- i; 'Tom Tit,' 339, 340, 364 ; her attitude, 339 and w. 3, 350 ; Brighton, 346, 349, 364, 371 ; (1806), buried near Exmouth, 432 n. 2 ; Lady Hamilton's third letter to, App. 514- Maurice, 334, 339 n. i, 365, 374. Sarah, Mrs. William [afterwards Countess Nelson] (1800), 334, 340; (1801, February), hurries up at Nelson's request to protect Emma ; Emma's correspondence with, 364 and scq. , 370, 376, 394, 405, 413, 415; (1806 and after), continued her friendship for, and visits to Emma, 439. the Rev. William [Earl Nelson], 42; (1800), 334 and «. 2, 339; oddities, 353 ; praises Emma's conduct, 362 ; characteristics, 363 n. i, 370 n. 3 ; Staines, 376-7; (1802), 394, 408 ; (1803), 405, 413, 415; (1804, Aug. i), 417; his behaviour regarding the codicil discussed, 433-36, 450, -'^pp. 508 ; his conduct concerning Nelson's coat, 437 ; shabbiness, 436-7 ; conduct to Mrs. Maurice Nelson [see ' Ford, Mrs.']. 444 «• I ; App. 501-507; (1814), Lady Hamilton on his conduct, 468-9 ; his hardness, 470, 472. William (1810), 454. Nepean, Sir Evan (i8oi), 365 ; App. 503- Newton, Mr. and Mrs., 380, 382. Nichol, family of, 43, 443. Niciiolson, M;irgarct, 61. Nicolas, Sir Harris N., 221, 350. Nisbet, Francis[see Nelson, Viscountess!. Nisbct, Josiah,Captain[Nclson'sslepson|, 165, 227, 231 ; at Neapolitan Embassy (1798), 240; ill conduct, 273 ; (1801), 365 and n. 2, 370. Nisbet, Mrs. (1801), 343, 357, 360. Nizza, Admiral (1799, September), 314. NoUekens [sculptor], 57. Northwick, Lord, 16 «. 1 ; (1808), 451. Nudi, Dr., 179. Ogilvie [banker], 80 n. 4. Oliver [interpreter] (1800), 335 ; (1801), 350, 368, 408. Opic, J. [artist], 21. Orde, Sir John (1805), 419, 420. Orloff, Count [Russian ambassador at Naples] 24 n. i. Pagako [jurisprudent], 120 and n. 4. Paget, Mr. [Hamilton's temporary suc- cessor], 99 M. 4 ; Hanoverian ambas- dor, 180 n. 2, 322 and ti. 2, 327. Paisiello [composer], 102, 117, 228. Pali [leader of the Lazzaroni], 9, 299-300. Pallanti [envoy], 139. Palmerston, Lady (1793), 154. Palmieri [scientist], 120. Panthea [freedwoman], Emma's proto- type, 224. Parker, Sir Hyde (1801), 345, 362. Captain (i8oi), 345, 353 ; (death), 376- Lieutenant (1801), 345, 361 ; (death), 377; App. 516. Parma, Duke of (1791), 139. Parratt, Dr., 380. Patterson, Mr. and Mrs., 380. Payne, Willet-, Rear-Admiral, 46, 49 ; (1802), death, 394. Peddieson [upholsterer], 424 n. 3. Peirson, Mrs. (1806), 440. Pembroke, Earl of, 31, 150. Pcpc [afterwards General] (1799), 268, (June), 291 and seq. P^ncival, Lady (1805), 431, 439, Spencer, 458. Perconti, Eliza (1800), 328. Perring, Sir John (1808), 449. Perry, Mr., 380, 423, 457, 458, 462, 465. Pescher [banker and conspirator] (1793), 144. Petion (1791), 143. Piazra, 267. Pignatelli [author], 121. Count, 144 «, I. Prince (1794), 174: (Dec. 23), Captain-General, 256; (1799, Jan.), 260; his action and absconsion, 265, 268 ; secret negotiations with French, 267, 273 ; ill behaviour, 279 ; ' sur- rounded by scoundrels,' 30 n. 3. Pimentel, Eleonora de Fonseca [poetess and revolutionist], 121-2 ; (1799), 264; edits Monitore, 269, 305. Pitt, Willi.im [statesman] (1783), 69; (1794). i77«.6;(i8oi), 364; (1802), 394; and Emma's claims, 205; and Hamilton, 548 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON 378; (1803), 402; (1804), 411; (1805), assured by Nelson of Emma's services, 445 ; Melville addresses him on her behalf, 448 ; Emma's admiration for, 416; energy, 419; and Nelson, 423; (1806, Jan.), his death affects Emma's claims, 435, 448. Pisa, Colonel (1798), 197 n i. Pius VI., Pope (1791), 120,. 138; (1797), and Austria, 196 n. i ; ejected from republicanised Rome, 183, 196 and n. I, 197 ; death of, ib. Plymouth, Lady (1791), 147; her letter to Emma, 148; (1792), 150; (1793), 122, 155. Polignac, Prince (1791), 131. Pope cited, 160, 176 t?. 3. Portland, Duke of, 31. Portman Square, 33 n. 2, 41. Potemkin, Prince, 127 71. 4. Pott, Emily [see Seaforth, Lady]. Potter, Mr. , 43. Pova, Mary, 41. Powell, Harriet [actress], [see Seaforth, Lady]. Jane [actress], 45 and ib. note 2 ; (1791), 135; (1803), with Lady Hamil- ton at Southend, 408. Prussia, and Frederick, King of (1792), and Austria, 144; (1793). .152; (i794). resents spread of Jacobinism, 173 ; Countess Lichtenau {q.v.), 180; (1795- 96), deserts coalition against France, 182, 184 ; (1803), Third Coalition, 402. Puleston, Sir R. (1811), 456. QuEENSBERRY, Duke of ['Old Q.'], 23 ; (1791). 135; (1801), 357, 373, 376; at Merton, 386; (1803), 408; (1805), 422 «. 3; (1807), 440; (1808), 448; (1810), death and luckless bequests of, 452, 454- Rasoumowsky, Count, 24 n. i. Rega [intaglio-cutter], 20. Reynolds family, the, 43, 443. Ann [Lady Hamilton's maternal aunt], 43. Richard, 43, 443, 4.55. Sir Joshua, and Romney, 17 ; and Lady Hamilton, 20 ; on Hamilton's connoisseurship, 34 Jt. i ; and 'Thais,' 38. Richard [Lady Hamilton's uncle], 43- Sarah, 43, 421, 455. Riario, Prince (1791), 144, 167. Richelieu, Cardinal, 119. Robespierre (1794), 173. Robinson, Mrs. ['Perdita'], 20, 24. Rocco, Padre [Royalist reformer], 120. Rficcomana, Duke of (1799, Jan.), leads Lazzaroni {//.v.), 268. Rodney, Lord (1780), 124. Rohan, Pierre Camille de, 85 ». i. Romney, George (1734-1802), 8, 11, 12, 14 ; and Lady Hamilton, 16-21, 26, 44 ; evidence as to first acquaintance with Lady Hamilton, 46, 49, 50, 51, 56; (1783-86), his friendship with Emma, 60-62 ; acknowledges her ' inspiration.' 99 and u. 5 ; scene in his studio, 62, 63; (1784), 77; (1785), 79, 90; (1786), invited to Naples, 94 ; intended to be Emma's trustee, 95 ; (1791), Emma's surprise visit to, 133 ; intercourse between him and the Hamiltons till her marriage, 19, 133-135, 136 ?/. 3; letter to, from Lady Hamilton, on her new happiness, 147 ; his answer to her invitation to Naples, ib. ; (1800), 334, 341 ; (1801), desire to see Emma again, 342 and ?/. 3, 361 ; (1802), death, 394 ; on sensibility of Emma's mouth, z'i^. , 466. Romney, John [son and biographer of the artist], 18 ?i. 4, 19 n. 3, 60 and n. 3, 61 n. 4, 62. Rose, George, the Right Honourable, 42 ; and Emma's claims, 205, 412 n. 4, 416 ; (1805), last interview with Nelson, 424, 429, 430 ; acknowledges Emma's ' claims,' 437 ; (1808), 445, 446 ; (1810), 447 fio^es I and 2, 455; (1813), 458; (1814), 466 n. 2, 467 ; App. 525, 526. • Captam, App. 502. Rosenheim, Count (1798), 243. Ross [banker], 80 n. 4. Rothery, Mr., 42. Roulanch, Mile. [Horatia's governess after Sarah Connor went as governess to the Boltons], 451. Rousseau, J. J., 263. Rovedino, Carlo, 456, Rovere family, the, 123. Ruffo, Cardinal Fabrizio (1744-1827), character of, 271 ; 42 n. 2 ; (1792), and ' camera oscura,' 145, 197 «. i ; (1799), 267 71. 2; designated Vicar- General ; King's strict injnctions to, 271 and }!. I ; Nelson's opinion of, and the Hamiltons, ib. and «. 3; proclaims holy war, 271 and se^. ; movements till May, 279 ; (June), his armistice sus- pected at Palermo, 288; and Queen, 289 71. 2, 291 n. 2 ; and King, 289 notes I and 2 ; (early June), nears Naples, 290 ; (June 16), council at Palermo respecting him ; intercepts land communications, gives battle and wins, 290, 291 ; his humanity, 291 ; his shifty and unauthorised manoeuvres for peace detailed and discussed, 291- 303 ; and M^jean, 292, 300-1 ; and Foote, 292-94 ; and Acton, 293 ; and Micheroux, 292, 300 ; at Is^elson's arrival (June 23), 297 ; (June 24), inter- view with Nelson and Hamiltons, 298 ; (June 25), 298 ; ' surrounded by scoundrels,' 300 «. 3; his twisting of facts, 301 and set/, ; saved from King's anger, 303 ; grateful to Lady Hamil- ton, ib. ; (1804), Viennese mission, 410 ; App. 520. Francesco, 291 n. 2. INDEX 549 Rumbold, Lady, 89. Sir Thomas, 89 and «. Rushout [diplomatist], 15 n. 5. Russell, Mr., 456, 465. Mrs., 456, 465 ; App. 512. Russia, and Paul, Emperor of, and Cathe- rine II., Empress of, and Lady Ham- ilton, 107; (1794), resents spread of Jacobinism, 173; (1798), declares war V. P'rance, 232, 234 ; promises fleet to Naples, 239; (1799, May), co-operates with Ruffo, 271 ; treaty with Naples, 232 ; and Malta (Nelson), 273 w. 2 ; fresh treaty with Naples, Austria, and Turkey, 279 ; Corfu blockaded, 290 ; (June), disappointed of arranging peace with Neapolitan rebels, 297 ; (October), inactive at Valetta, 315, 330 w. 3 ; and Nelson's and Lady Hamilton's Maltese services, 350 n. 3 ; (1803), third coali- tion, 402; (1810), 454. Ruvo, Count (1793), 167; (1799), 270. Vincenzo [patriot], 291. Ruzzi, Dr. (1798), 250. Saboff, 180. Saffory, Ann (1788), 120 ;/. 2. Sanfelice, Molines Luisa (1799), her part in betraying royal secrets, and her fate, 72. St. George, Miss, 38 «. 3. Mrs. [MelesinaChenevix, afterwards Mrs. Trench], 22 n. 6, 333 n. 4. Saint Maitre, Duke and Duchess of (1787), lOI. St. Vincent, Earl, and Lady Hamilton, 10, 25, 169, 170, 196, 276 n. 2 ; (1798). and Acton, 198 ; correspondence with Emma, 202 n. 4 ; and Captain Bowen, 210 n. 2; on Nelson, the Nile, and Jacobinism, 224 ; on Nelson's sus- ceptibility, 226 n. I ; (1798), on I^ady Hamilton's heroism, 255; (1799) 258, 280; Lady Hamilton's appeal to, 171, App. n, E. ; retirement, 282 ; Nelson invites, ib. ; and appeals to, 287 ; (1800), on Nelson's philandering, 323, 330 n. 2; (1801), squabbles, 344-5, 367; (1808), Emma addresses, 444-5, App. 512. Salandra, Duke of (1799, August), ' Vice- General,' 311. Sambuca, Marquis of (1776), 122. San Clemente, Marchioness (1793), 153. San Leucio (Royal and socialistic colony), 121. San Marco, Marchioness (1793), 153. Sandby, Paul [artist], 57. Sardinia, 115, 141 n. 2, 153; (1798), 203. Saunders [savant], 14, 16. Sauveur, Alexandre [' hermit of Vesu- vius'], 107 «. 2, 180. Saverio, 245. Sawbrige, John, M.P. , 48. Saxe, Chevalier, 180. Saye [me^zotinter], 21 n. 1. Sberri, the, 97 n. i. Schiavonetti [artist], 57. Schinato, Marquis, at Merton, 386. Schipani (1799, June), 290. Schomberg House, 47. Scott, J. [Nelson's secretary], 406. Rev. Dr. A. J. [Nelson's chaplain and secretary], 160 n. 3, 419, 423 and n. 2, 426 n. I, 428 notes r and 2 ; breaks news of Nelson's death to Emma, 429, App. 524 ; his vigil over Nelson's remains and care for Emma, 431-2 ; on Nelson, 431 ; his tribute to Emma, 432 ; at the funeral, ib. ; (1806, Sept.), Lady Hamilton's vindicatory letter to, 438. Sir William [Lord Stowell], 12 n. 8, 39 7/. 2; (1806), 435; (1814), 466, 468. Seaforth, Lord, 69. Lady, 24, 41, 45. S^mouville, ' Citizen ' [ambassador] (1793). 152 n. 2. Shelburne, Lord [statesman], 57. Sheldon [balloonist], 60. Sicigniano [ambassador] (1789), 123 ; (1793). 145- Sicily (as distinguished from Naples), 119 n. 4; (1794), Jacobinism, 173; (1798), 204; (1799), 289. Simpson, Miss Molly, 157 «. 5. Singleton, W. [artist], 21. Skamousky, Madame, 150. Skavonska, Madame [wife of Russian ambassador at Naples] (1789), 127. Smith, Jonathan [alderman], 383; (1813 458; (1814), 461, 465, 466. 472 ; App. 513- Sidney, Admiral Sir (1799), 273, 274, 315- Solari, Marchesa Di, Anne Hyde, 16, 42, no; (1792), 143; and Lady Hamilton's message from Marie Antoinette, 145-6; and Lady Hamil- ton's intimacy with the Queen, 153. Somerville, Captain, App. 519. Sorrentino, Duchess of (1800), 121. Spain. — Spanish Bourbon's historical ambition for Italy, 113, 114; (1791) 138 ; the key of the Neapolitan situa- tion, 139 ; anti- Freemasons, ib. and n. I, 141 ; (1795-6), gradual rapprocht- ment with France, 182 and seq. ; she deserts allies, 184, 185 and scq. ; (1796), her real objective v. England, 185 ; declares war, 186 n. 2 ; puts troops in Leghorn, 188 n. 3; (1798) 201, 203; (1799), joins fleet with French, 280 and seq. ; (1805), Trafalgar, 428. Spencer, Lord, and Nelson (1798). 234; (1799), 290 n. 2, 273 ; indorses his anti-Jacobin policy, 304 and n. 2 ; (1800), suspicions, 326. Lady (1793), 155; (1798). 232. Spilsbury, Mrs. , 360. Sterne, L. , 311, 466. Strafford, Lady, 67 w. i. Stuart, Sir Charles, Genera (1799), 274. 550 EMMA, LADY HAMILTON Suckling, Sir William, 157 n. 3, 412 n. 2. Wibrew, 412 n. 2. Sussex, Duke of, 16 «. i ; and Mrs. Cadogan, 42 ; (1792 and 1793), at Naples, 148, 163; (1794), 177; birth- day fete, 181 ; (1809), meets Lady Hamilton at Harrow, 451. Sutton, Captain (1793), 163, App. 520. Suwarrow, 373. Swinburne, Henry (1786), 104 n. 3. Tacitus, quoted, 306. Talma [actor], 16. Tarsia, Prince of (1794), 175. Tegart, Dr., 458. Tenucci, Marquis [Neapolitan Finance- Minister] (1760), 118; (1775-6), 122. Thomas, Mrs. [of Hawarden], 44 ; (1807), 443- Thomas, Miss, 44, 443. Thomson, J. D., Mr., App. 507. Thugut [negotiator for Austria of the Campoformio treaty], 236. Thurn, Count [Austrian Admiral] (1798, Dec), part in Royal escape, 247 ; (Dec. 22), watchword, 249, 250 ; (1799, May), 282 ; (June 29), 307. Tischbein [painter], 20, 2,171. 4 ; (1786), 105 and n. i. Torella, Prince, 123. Torre [Pyrotechnist], 60. Torre, Delia, Duke (1799, Jan.), and Lazzaroni {q.v.), 268. Totty, Admiral, 26 ; App. 516. Treaties and truces — Amiens (1801, September ; 1802, March), 367, 378 n. 8. Anglo-Sicilian, the first (1793, July), 152, 15b, 171, 177; the second {x^g^, December), 224. Austro-Neapolitan (1798, July), 204 n. 5, 205, 206 and notes 2 and 5, 207 and«. 5, 216. Ajistro-Tzirkish {xjg<), March), 279. Brescian (1795-6), 175, 179. Campoformia7i (1797, February), 183, 196 n. I, 236 71. 3, 243. Franco-Neapolitan (1796, December), 183, 198, 203, 205, 216 ; Nelson on, 213, 216, 219, 220 ; Gallo and, 230-1, 243- Franco-Spanish (1796, August and Sep- tember), 186 71. 2. Russo- Turkish- Neapolitan{x'jg%, May), 232. Of Tolenfi7io (1797, October), 183, 196 n. I. Trench, Mrs. [see 'St. George, Mrs.']. Tresham, H. [artist], 20, 49. Trdville, Latouche, Admiral (1793), 152 ; (1804), 411. Trevor, Captain, App. 517. Trogoff, Admiral (1793), 153, 157 ». 2. Troubridge, Sir Thomas, 10 «. 5 ; (1798, June), 204, 206 n. 1, 207, 208 ; (July, 19-23), at Syracuse, 217 71. 1 ; (Sep- tember), at Castellamare, 229 ; ill. 230 ; future attitude to Lady Hamilton, id. ; (December), 245 ; (1799), at Procida, 274 ; suppresses island rebels, 278, 279 ; message to Nelson, 280, 281 ; (June 26), takes over the two smaller Neapolitan castles, his false and his real proclamation, 302 notes 3 and 4, 303 ; (June 27), 'to execute the business,' 304 ; Caracciolo, 305 ; invest St. Elmo, 308 ; (August), Commodore of Naples squadron, 311 ; (September), Civita Vecchia, 314 ; (autumn), remonstrates with Lady Hamilton on gambling, 319, 320 ; his own receipt of Neapolitan pension and Nelson's advancement of, 320 n. i; (1801), Lord of Admiralty: Nelson's complaints of, 337 n. 3, 345 and 71. I ; sends Nelson's letters, 353, 364 ; App. 498, 517, 519. Tschudi, Madame, 67. Turkey, and Sultan of, 8, 24 71. i, 227 ; (1798), declares war v. France, 232, 234 ; (1799, May), co-operates with Ruffo, 271 ; treaty with Naples, 232 ; fresh treaty with Russia, Austria, and Naples, 279 ; Corfu blockaded, 290 ; (1799), fresh gifts to Nelson, 314. Twiss, Mr. (1810), 454. Tyson, Captain (1799, autumn), acts as Nelson's secretary, 286 «. i, 317 w. 2, 322 n. I ; (1804), 413 n. i ; App. 498. Mrs., and Lady Hamilton, 386; (1805, July), a day at Merton, 421, 434 77. 2 ; App. 515. Udney, Mrs., 343 ; (1801), 360. Vanni [inquisitor], 123 ; (1794), made assessor and marquis, 174; (1797), deposed, 197. \'arden, Mr., 518. Vaudreuil, Count (1791), 131. Ventimiglia, Prince, App. 498. Vestinus, analogy of, 306. Villeneuve, Admiral (1798), 223 ; (1805, April), starts from Toulon, chased by Nelson, 420 ; App. 525. Vincenzo [servant], 86. VoUer, Miss [schoolmistress], App. 506. Voltaire, 306. Wade, Matthew (1799), on Jacobins, pillage, and shifts, 310-11. Waller, Captain, App. 498. Walpole, Horace, 16 ; and Hayley, 63 71. I ; and Mrs. Darner, 67 71. 5 ; and Sir W. Hamilton, 89 «. 2 ; on Sir T. Rumbold, 71 n. 2; (1791), on Lady H.'s wedding, 137; 'Austriacity,' 138. Sir Robert, analogy of, with Acton, 124. Mrs., 343 ; (1801), 357. Ward, Horatia [see ' Nelson, Horatia']. [gardener], hiS statements regarding Lady H., 469 n. 3. Warwick, Francis, Earl of, 31, 35, 80 n. 2,85. INDEX 551 Warwick, Dowager-Countess of, 135 n. 3. Watson, Dr., 458 «. i. Watt, James [inventor], 52. Webster, Lady (1792), 150; (1793), 155. Sir George (1793). '^SS- Wedgwood, Josiah, 36 n. i. Wellington, Duke of, 158. Wells, J. [artist], 21. Mrs., 84, 96, 98. White, Robert, in n. i. Whiteford, Caleb [wit, a wine merchant], 57- Whitworth, Lord, 402. Williams, Miss [Jacobin], 31. of Gwint [heiress], 35, Willock, 444 n. 2. Willoughby, Mrs., 71. Willoughby, Miss, provided for by Government, 454. Wittig [Knight of Malta], 203, 231. Wolcot, Dr. [' Peter Pindar '], 16 ; at Mer- ton, 386. Woollett [mezzotinter], 109. Wright, Lady (1791), 147. Wurmser, General (1795), i^^. Wyndham [minister at Leghorn] (1795- 96), 188. Yanch, Admiral (1799), 279 «. 3. York, Duke of, 137. ZuRLO, Archbishop (1793), 167; (1799, Jan. 15), 266 ; (Jan. 22), 267. ADDENDA The picture of Lady Hamilton mentioned on page 21 as by Gavin Hamilton is more probably by Angelica Kauffmann. The earliest mezzotint of her is a spirited one in 1779 as ' Thais.' By an inadvertence the description on the illustration facing p. 157 does not correspond to the right description in the Illustration List. It is quite uncer- tain who made the medallion or the engraving of it. The portrait resembles De Koster's. To the incidents of the voyage enumerated in the text at pp. 257, 258 should be added a story presumably true. Sir William, prostrated by the horrors and terrors of the storm, was found by his wife with pistols by his side. On being questioned as to his reason for firearms, he replied that he would prefer suicide to dying 'with the guggle, guggle, guggle of water in my ears.' The ' Miss Connor ' whose letter about Horatia, just before the battle of Trafalgar, is mentioned on page 425, is Miss Mary Connor. It has not been sufficiently shown in the text that Horatia was for some time under her charge as well as under Sarah Connor's, and, afterwards, Cecilia's. Mary seems to have been a far more refined and better educated woman than her more showy sisters. Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty at the Edinburgh University Press ) ^ THE LIBRARY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA Santa Barbara STACK COLLECTION I THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE STAMPED BELOW. \ I MOTIS NOV 2 4l9dS( 10»M-6,'62(C9724s4)476D 3 1205 01697 1200 UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACIUTy AA 000 421 332 8
