=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Miners' Union Hall National Historic Site - Parks Canada]
Architecturally, the Miners' Union Hall is an impressive example of a late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building. Designed by E.J. Weston, an American architect practicing in Los Angeles, the rectangular wooden building has a steeply-pitched gable roof and a central balcony on the upper floor.
URL: https://parks.canada.ca/culture/designation/lieu-site/miners-union-hall

[Miners' Union Hall — Rossland Museum & Discovery Centre]
Aug 9, 2019 · The Rossland Miners’ Union Hall was built in 1898, with the architectural design done by E.J. Weston – an American architect. The Hall has survived a multitude of fires that ravaged Rossland in its early days; and one of the few wooden buildings of this era and stature left in the province. The building is rectangular and situated on a sloping lot. From street level, it appears to be two ...
URL: https://www.rosslandmuseum.ca/minershall

[Miners' Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia - Mirage News]
Its efforts led to legislation guaranteeing an eight-hour work day for miners in the province (1899) and contributed to the enactment of the Conciliation Act (1900), which provided for voluntary arbitration. The union hall was designed by E.J. Weston, an American architect.
URL: https://www.miragenews.com/miners-union-hall-rossland-british-columbia/

[Miners' Union Hall National Historic Site of Canada]
Miners' Union Hall was built to serve as a meeting place for Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners. This local was founded in Rossland in 1895, and was the first union local in the mining sector in British Columbia.
URL: https://www.pc.gc.ca/apps/dfhd/page_nhs_eng.aspx?id=15692

[Miners' Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia - canada.ca]
Mar 6, 2020 · The Miners’ Union Hall in Rossland, British Columbia, was built in 1898 by the members of Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners. The building served as a space for union meetings and an important centre of union activity, as the union engaged in a determined battle for miners’ rights in the region.
URL: https://www.canada.ca/en/parks-canada/news/2020/03/miners-union-hall-rossland-british-columbia.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Miners' Union Hall National Historic Site - Parks Canada] ---
Miners’ Union Hall National Historic Site Located at 1765 Columbia Avenue in Rossland, British Columbia, the Miners' Union Hall was built in 1898 to serve as a meeting place for Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners. This building testifies to the union's determined battle for miners' rights in the region, which led to legislation guaranteeing an eight-hour work day for miners in the province (1899) and contributed to the enactment of the Conciliation Act (1900). A rare surviving building of its type in Western Canada, this eclectic, wooden, late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building serves as a major landmark for the community. Retaining excellent architectural integrity, it remains an important community meeting place for the people of Rossland. Furthermore, it is a particularly rare and eloquent example in Canada of a building expressly designed to house a union hall. The Western Federation of Miners (WFM) was a union for metallurgy industry workers in western North America, and Local 38 of WFM, founded in 1895, was the first local in the mining sector in BC. It became one of the most influential and productive in the history of the province. Among other things, the union fought for fair and safe working conditions for miners, and helped pave the way for the union movement in BC. The Miners' Union Hall served as a space for union meetings, and also welcomed various other social and community events. In the 1960s, a new union hall was acquired in the nearby community of Trail, and the Rossland Miners' Union Hall fell into disrepair. In the 1970s, the Rossland Heritage Society was formed, and rehabilitation work began on the hall. The building was sold to the City of Rossland and reopened its doors in 1983. The rehabilitation work carried out over the years, mainly in the late-1970s, and more recently in 2016-17, has helped to preserve the main characteristic elements of the building, including its volumetrics, the ordering of its facades, the distribution of the interior spaces, its materials, and its main decorative elements. A multi-purpose building, it is used by the community as a meeting and reception hall, and as a theatre for plays and artistic performances. The recent restoration work also allowed the 4th-storey attic to be renovated to become a space that can be used to meet the needs of the public. Architecturally, the Miners' Union Hall is an impressive example of a late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building. Designed by E.J. Weston, an American architect practicing in Los Angeles, the rectangular wooden building has a steeply-pitched gable roof and a central balcony on the upper floor. Its façade is characterized by symmetry and by a number of classical architecture elements, including the windows and doors with triangular pediments, the inset central balcony and its carved wooden ornamentation. The side facades are also characterized by a symmetry that is highlighted by high rectangular windows providing considerable natural light. Original inscriptions, including “1898” at the central gable, “Miners Union” at the balcony, and “Miners Union Hall” over the central door, speak to this building's history. The National Program of Historical Commemoration relies on the participation of Canadians in the identification of places, events and persons of national historic significance. Any member of the public can nominate a topic for consideration by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada. - Date modified :


--- [Miners' Union Hall — Rossland Museum & Discovery Centre] ---
Rossland Miners’ Union Hall Rossland became the first international branch of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) - the first WFM branch in Canada, Local 38. Its district encompassed Sandon, Ymir, Kaslo, Rossland, Trail, Nelson, Silverton, Hedley and Phoenix. The WFM aimed to gain control over workers rights and be recognized as the bargaining agent for miners. A union hall for WFM Local 38 was set to be built on Columbia Ave. and members assessed themselves a days wage to build it. It was designed by E.J. Weston using heavy timbers, reminiscent of those used in mine tunnels. LISTEN TO JACK MCDONALD DESCRIBE THE MINERS’ UNION HALL AS IT WAS PRIOR TO THE 2017 RENOVATION TO NEAL GILLIM, A CBC REPORTER. UNKNOWN YEAR: + More info The Rossland Miners’ Union Hall was built in 1898, with the architectural design done by E.J. Weston – an American architect. The Hall has survived a multitude of fires that ravaged Rossland in its early days; and one of the few wooden buildings of this era and stature left in the province. The building is rectangular and situated on a sloping lot. From street level, it appears to be two-storeys, but it is actually three storeys. The facade of the building is characterized by its symmetrical elements, along with classical architectural elements such as windows and doors with triangular pediments, the inset central balcony and its carved wooden ornamentation. The sides are also in this style, which is highlighted by high rectangular windows that provide considerable natural light. There is large lettering on the front of the building that identifies it as the Miners’ Union Hall, along with the date up high on the front of the building. The building was designed for multipurpose use. The main floor had a main, raked stage, that is large enough for groups to entertain, and a main hall suitable for large gatherings and social events. There was an interior balcony built above the front entrance way that was accessed from the main floor which provided more space. On the lower level, there was a smaller meeting area with a low stage and also family quarters for the Union Secretary and his family. Below the lower level, in the half basement, the boilers used for heating were located. The attic was left unfinished until a later date. There were two restoration periods, one from 1978 to 1983, which was to restore the building to its original condition. The second was from 2015 to 2017, and this renovation included a new metal roof, replacing deteriorated siding and structural framing, refinishing all siding, trim, windows, removing existing chimney, and repairing the existing stairs. The attic floor reclamation which includes new performers green room, lounge, multipurpose room, washrooms, kitchen and upgrading existing staircase. Facade restoration included restoring the gable end parapet, reopening the balcony, and recreating heritage elements of the original balcony. Entry plaza/forecourt remodel including reconstructing concrete retaining wall, steps and ramp, along with adding decorative railings and bannisters. In 2020, the Miners’ Union Hall was given a plaque of recognition by the Government of Canada to commemorate the national historical significance of the site. When it was completed in 1898, the miners took the day off to celebrate with contests, sports, and a dance. The hall was meant to serve as a meeting hall and multi-purpose community space - “...there were balls, political meetings, lantern slides and travelling vaudeville shows. Even funerals for men killed in the mines were held at the Hall,” notes the Rossland Miner newspaper. By 1899 there were around 1,300 members in Rossland’s WFM Branch. The Rossland Miners’ Union Hall is a testament to collective action and vision, and although it is no longer home to the Union, it is still a well-used community gathering space. For More Information: Rossland Heritage Commission Official Heritage Register - Buildings: Miners’ Union Hall Government of Canada - Parks: Miners’ Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia Historic Places Canada: Rossland Miners’ Union Hall Continue Downtown Tour: Contribute your own memories/experiences of the Rossland Miners’ Union Hall: The form below will email us your message. If you prefer to speak to us directly or have other questions or comments about this page, please call (250) 362-7722 or email the archives directly at archives@rosslandmuseum.ca


--- [Miners' Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia - Mirage News] ---
No content


--- [Miners' Union Hall National Historic Site of Canada] ---
Miners' Union Hall National Historic Site of Canada Rossland, British Columbia The Miners' Union Hall (© Christine Boucher, Parcs Canada / Parks Canada, 2018) Address : 1765 Columbia Avenue, Rossland, British Columbia Recognition Statute: Historic Sites and Monuments Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. H-4) Designation Date: 2019-06-05 Dates: - 1898 to 1898 (Construction) - 1898 to 1898 (Established) Event, Person, Organization: - Edwin J. Weston (Architect) Other Name(s): - Miners' Union Hall (Designation Name) - Rossland Miners' Union Hall (Other Name) - Miners' Hall (Other Name) - Old Miners' Hall (Other Name) - Mine Mill Hall (Other Name) - Miners Union Hall (Other Name) Research Report Number: 2018-05 Plaque(s) Existing plaque: 1765 Columbia Avenue, Rossland, British Columbia This rare surviving union hall in western Canada was built in 1898 by Local 38, the first international branch of the Western Federation of Miners, when Rossland was experiencing rapid growth as a hardrock gold mining centre. One of the earliest and most influential miners’ organizations in the province, this union waged a fight for fair and safe working conditions that led to the establishment of the eight-hour work day (1899) and contributed to the passing of the Conciliation Act (1900), which provided for voluntary arbitration. This late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building is still an important gathering place. Description of Historic Place Miners’ Union Hall National Historic Site of Canada is a handsome timber building in the late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style prominently located in downtown Rossland, British Columbia. Located within a largely residential area, the building’s two-storey façade fronts Columbia Avenue while a steep treed escarpment enables three-storeys at the rear. The designation refers to the building on its footprint. Heritage Value The Miners’ Union Hall was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 2019. It is recognized because: • a rare surviving building of its type in Western Canada, this eclectic, wooden, late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building serves as a major landmark for the community. Retaining excellent architectural integrity, it is still today an important community meeting place for the people of Rossland; • it was constructed by Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) as a meeting place, and testifies to the union’s determined battle for miners’ rights in the region, which led to legislation guaranteeing an eight-hour work day for miners in the province (1899) and contributed to the enactment of the Conciliation Act (1900); • built in 1898 in Rossland, a resource town marked by unprecedented economic growth following the late 19th century Gold Rush in Western Canada, it is a particularly rare and eloquent example in Canada of a building expressly designed to house a union hall. Miners’ Union Hall was built to serve as a meeting place for Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners. This local was founded in Rossland in 1895, and was the first union local in the mining sector in British Columbia. It led the fight for fair and safe working conditions which eventually produced legislation guaranteeing an eight-hour work day for miners in the province. This hall, a utilitarian structure, is also an eclectic example of the late-Victorian Gothic Revival style. A major landmark in Rossland, rehabilitation work preserved the main characteristics of its architecture, while its historical associations speak to this building’s historic connection with miners’ rights and miners in the region. Miners’ Union Hall also speaks to the importance of mining in Canada in late 19th century and early 20th century. Although it no longer serves as union hall, it is a well-used community gathering space. Source: Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada, Minutes, June 2018. Character-Defining Elements Key elements contributing to the heritage value of this site include: its prominent location on a main street in downtown Rossland in a largely residential setting; its rectangular footprint, distinct massing, two-storey front elevation and three-storey rear elevation with steeply pitched gable roof; the late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style decoration including that on the pediment at the top of the façade, the decorative roof parapet and gable; the symmetrical façade’s classical architecture elements, including triangular pediments above windows and doors, inset central balcony, carved wooden ornamentation, and the original inscriptions “1898” on the central gable, “Miners Union” on the balcony, and “Miners Union Hall” over the central door; the large central entrance with glazed transom flanked by tall rectangular windows, the regularly placed windows on the side elevations, and balcony and shed-roofed side entrances; the boom town influenced construction using wooden posts and beams, wood siding and details; the original plan and distribution of interior spaces including the lobby, open auditorium with cathedral ceiling, inclined wooden stage, basement and attic; surviving original materials, wood finishes executed in fir and cedar including doors, wall panelling, exposed wooden beams, embossed metal ceilings and metal ventilation grilles.


--- [Miners' Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia - canada.ca] ---
Miners’ Union Hall, Rossland, British Columbia Backgrounder The Miners’ Union Hall in Rossland, British Columbia, was built in 1898 by the members of Local 38 of the Western Federation of Miners. The building served as a space for union meetings and an important centre of union activity, as the union engaged in a determined battle for miners’ rights in the region. A rare surviving building of its type in Western Canada, this late-Victorian Gothic Revival Style building retains excellent architectural integrity and remains an important gathering place for the people of Rossland. In the late 19th century, Rossland was experiencing very rapid growth as a hardrock gold mining centre. Mining booms in the Kootenay region resulted in the development of mining industries, the expansion of the workforce, and a subsequent organization of labour. The Western Federation of Miners (WFM) was a union for metallurgy industry workers in western North America, and Local 38, founded in 1895, was its first Canadian branch. This local became one of the most influential and productive in the history of the province. Among other things, it fought for fair and safe working conditions for miners and helped pave the way for the union movement in British Columbia. Its efforts led to legislation guaranteeing an eight-hour work day for miners in the province (1899) and contributed to the enactment of the Conciliation Act (1900), which provided for voluntary arbitration. The union hall was designed by E.J. Weston, an American architect. The rectangular wooden building has a steeply-pitched gable roof and a central balcony on the upper floor. Its facade is characterized by symmetry and by a number of classical architecture elements, including the windows and doors with triangular pediments, the inset central balcony and its carved wooden ornamentation. The side facades are also characterized by a symmetry that is highlighted by high rectangular windows providing considerable natural light. Original inscriptions, including “1898” at the central gable, “Miners Union” at the balcony, and “Miners’ Union Hall” over the central door, speak to this building’s history. In the 1960s, a new union hall was acquired in the nearby community of Trail, and the Rossland Miners’ Union Hall fell into disrepair. In the 1970s, the Rossland Heritage Society was formed, and rehabilitation work began on the hall. The building was sold to the City of Rossland and reopened in 1983. The rehabilitation work carried out over the years, mainly in the late-1970s, and more recently in 2016-17, has helped to preserve its defining characteristics. Now a multi-purpose building, it is used by the community as a meeting and reception hall, and as a theatre for plays and other artistic performances. - 30 -
