=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hlengiwe Mkhize - Wikipedia]
In 2005, President Thabo Mbeki appointed Mkhize as South African Ambassador to the Netherlands, a post she held until 2008. [1] In this capacity, she chaired the executive council of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons during the early 2000s and was vice-president of the Member States at the International Criminal Court ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hlengiwe_Mkhize

[Thabo Mbeki - Wikipedia]
Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki (Xhosa: [tʰaɓɔ ʼmbɛːki]; born 18 June 1942) is a South African politician and economist who served as the president of South Africa from 14 June 1999 to 24 September 2008, when he resigned at the request of his party, the African National Congress (ANC). [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thabo_Mbeki

[Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki - South African History Online]
Feb 17, 2011 · Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki was born on June 18 1942, in Mbewuleni (meaning ‘place of seed’), a tiny village in Idutywa in Transkei. His middle name ’Mvuyelwa’ is Xhosa and means ‘he for whom the people sing’. Both his parents were teachers, activists and members of the Communist Party of South Africa (CPSA later renamed the SACP).Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki was born on June 18 1942, in ...
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/people/thabo-mvuyelwa-mbeki

[Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki, Mr - South African Government]
Surname Mbeki Name (s) Thabo Mvuyelwa Cell Date Of Birth Thursday, June 18, 1942 - 12:00
URL: https://www.gov.za/about-government/contact-directory/former-government-leaders/thabo-mvuyelwa-mbeki-mr

[Former President Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki | The Presidency]
Dec 18, 1997 · Thabo Mbeki participated in all subsequent negotiations leading to the adoption of the interim Constitution for the new South Africa. In 1993, he was elected Chairperson of the ANC, succeeding the late former President and Chairperson of the ANC, Oliver R Tambo, with whom he had had a close working relationship over the years.
URL: https://www.presidency.gov.za/former-president-thabo-mvuyelwa-mbeki


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hlengiwe Mkhize - Wikipedia] ---
Hlengiwe Buhle Mkhize (6 September 1952 – 16 September 2021) was a South African politician who served as Minister of Higher Education and Training and Minister of Home Affairs under President Jacob Zuma. A member of the National Assembly and national executive since May 2009, she was Deputy Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities when she died in September 2021.
Mkhize trained in clinical psychology and spent over a decade in academia at the University of Zululand and University of the Witwatersrand, until in 1995 she was appointed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. She chaired the commission's Reparations and Rehabilitation Committee. She went on to serve as South African Ambassador to the Netherlands from 2005 to 2008 before she was elected to the National Assembly in the 2009 general election.
Between 2009 and 2017, Mkhize served Zuma's administration as a deputy minister in four different portfolios: she was Deputy Minister of Correctional Services from 2009 to 2010, Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training from 2010 to 2012, Deputy Minister of Economic Development from 2012 to 2014, and Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services from 2014 to 2017. After that, she was promoted to Zuma's second-term cabinet, first as Minister of Home Affairs in 2017 and then as Minister of Higher Education and Training from 2017 to 2018. In February 2018, she was sacked by Zuma's successor, President Cyril Ramaphosa, and she retreated briefly to the chairmanship of the Portfolio Committee on Communications. She was appointed to her deputy ministerial position in the Presidency after the 2019 general election.
A longserving member of the African National Congress (ANC), Mkhize was the national treasurer of the ANC Women's League from July 2008 to August 2015. She was a member of the party's National Executive Committee from December 2017 until her death.


--- [Thabo Mbeki - Wikipedia] ---
Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki (Xhosa: [tʰaɓɔ ʼmbɛːki]; born 18 June 1942) is a South African politician and economist who served as the president of South Africa from 14 June 1999 to 24 September 2008, when he resigned at the request of his party, the African National Congress (ANC). Before that, he was deputy president under Nelson Mandela from 1994 to 1999.
The son of Govan Mbeki, an ANC intellectual, Mbeki has been involved in ANC politics since 1956, when he joined the ANC Youth League, and has been a member of the party's National Executive Committee since 1975. Born in the Transkei, he left South Africa aged twenty to attend university in England, and spent almost three decades in exile abroad, until the ANC was unbanned in 1990. He rose through the organisation in its information and publicity section and as Oliver Tambo's protégé, but he was also an experienced diplomat, serving as the ANC's official representative in several of its African outposts. He was an early advocate for and leader of the diplomatic engagements which led to the negotiations to end apartheid. After South Africa's first democratic elections in 1994, he was appointed national deputy president. In subsequent years, it became apparent that he was Mandela's chosen successor, and he was elected unopposed as ANC president in 1997, enabling his rise to the presidency as the ANC's candidate in the 1999 elections.
While deputy president, Mbeki had been regarded as a steward of the government's Growth, Employment and Redistribution policy, introduced in 1996, and as president he continued to subscribe to relatively conservative, market-friendly macroeconomic policies. During his presidency, South Africa experienced falling public debt, a narrowing budget deficit, and consistent, moderate economic growth. However, despite his retention of various social democratic programmes, and notable expansions to the black economic empowerment programme, critics often regarded Mbeki's economic policies as neoliberal, with insufficient consideration for developmental and redistributive objectives. On these grounds, Mbeki grew increasingly alienated from the left wing of the ANC, and from the leaders of the ANC's Tripartite Alliance partners, the Congress of South African Trade Unions and South African Communist Party. It was these leftist elements which supported Jacob Zuma over Mbeki in the political rivalry that erupted after Mbeki removed the latter from his post as deputy president in 2005.
As president, Mbeki had an apparent predilection for foreign policy and particularly for multilateralism. His pan-Africanism and vision for an "African renaissance" are central parts of his political persona, and commentators suggest that he secured for South Africa a role in African and global politics that was disproportionate to the country's size and historical influence. He was the central architect of the New Partnership for Africa's Development and, as the inaugural chairperson of the African Union, spearheaded the introduction of the African Peer Review Mechanism. After the IBSA Dialogue Forum was launched in 2003, his government collaborated with India and Brazil to lobby for reforms at the United Nations, advocating for a stronger role for developing countries. Among South Africa's various peacekeeping commitments during his presidency, Mbeki was the primary mediator in the conflict between ZANU-PF and the Zimbabwean opposition in the 2000s. However, he was frequently criticised for his policy of "quiet diplomacy" in Zimbabwe, under which he refused to condemn Robert Mugabe's regime or institute sanctions against it.
Also highly controversial worldwide was Mbeki's HIV/AIDS policy. His government did not introduce a national mother-to-child transmission prevention programme until 2002, when it was mandated by the Constitutional Court, nor did it make antiretroviral therapy available in the public healthcare system until late 2003. Subsequent studies have estimated that these delays caused hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths. Mbeki himself, like his Health Minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang, has been described as an AIDS denialist, "dissident", or sceptic. Although he did not explicitly deny the causal link between HIV and AIDS, he often posited a need to investigate alternate causes of and alternative treatments for AIDS, frequently suggesting that immunodeficiency was the indirect result of poverty.
His political descent began at the ANC's Polokwane conference in December 2007, when he was replaced as ANC president by Zuma. Although his term as national president was not due to expire until June 2009, he announced on 20 September 2008 that he would resign at the request of the ANC National Executive Committee. The ANC's decision to "recall" Mbeki was understood to be linked to a High Court judgement, handed down earlier that month, in which judge Chris Nicholson had alleged improper political interference in the National Prosecuting Authority and specifically in the corruption charges against Zuma. Nicholson's judgement was overturned by the Supreme Court of Appeal in January 2009, by which time Mbeki had been replaced as president by Kgalema Motlanthe.


--- [Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki - South African History Online] ---
No content


--- [Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki, Mr - South African Government] ---
Title Mr Initials TM Surname Mbeki Name(s) Thabo Mvuyelwa Cell Date Of Birth Thursday, June 18, 1942 - 12:00 Share this page Facebook Twitter WhatsApp


--- [Former President Thabo Mvuyelwa Mbeki | The Presidency] ---
Thabo Mbeki was born on 18 June 1942 in Idutywa, Transkei. Both his parents were teachers, intellectuals and political activists. His father was a university graduate, a fact that encouraged the young Thabo Mbeki's interest in books. Owing to the uncertainty of his family circumstances caused by constant political harassment and detention, his parents enlisted the help of relatives and friends in raising young Thabo. He attended primary school at Idutywa and Butterworth and high school at Lovedale, Alice. While a student at the Lovedale Institute he joined the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL). He was expelled from school as a result of student strikes (1959) and forced to continue his studies at home. He sat for matriculation examinations at St John's High School, Umtata in 1959. He completed his British "A" level examinations (1960 and 1961) and enrolled for an economics degree as an external student with the University of London (1961 - 1962). He then registered for a Masters of Economics degree at the University of Sussex in 1966. Upon completion of his studies he relocated to Johannesburg, where he met Walter Sisulu and Duma Nokwe: the two names that were to have a critical impact on his political life before exile. He was involved in underground activities in the Pretoria-Witwatersrand area after the African National Congress (ANC) was banned in 1960. Maturing politically, he went on to mobilize the students and youth in support of the ANC's call for a stay-away in protest against the declaration of the Republic of South Africa in 1961. On instructions of the ANC, the young Thabo Mbeki left South Africa together with other students in 1962 for Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), passing through Tanganyika (now Tanzania), to settle in the United Kingdom (UK) to study. He continued with his political activities as a university student in the UK, mobilizing the international student community against apartheid. Between 1967 and 1970 he worked for the ANC office in London during which time he also underwent military training in the then Soviet Union. A fully-fledged soldier, he served as Assistant Secretary to the Revolutionary Council of the ANC in Lusaka in 1971. In 1973 he was sent to Botswana, where he was among the first ANC leaders to have contact with exiled and visiting members of the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM). As a result of his contact and discussions with the BCM, some of the leading members of this organization found their way into the ranks of the ANC. The focus of his activities during this time was to consolidate the underground structures of the ANC and to mobilize the people inside South Africa. He engaged the Botswana Government in discussions to open an ANC office in that country. He then left Botswana in 1974, remaining for a short while in Zambia before the ANC once more sent him abroad, this time to Swaziland as acting representative of the ANC. Part of his task was the internal mobilization and the creation of underground structures. In 1974 he married Ms. Zanele Dlamini. Thabo Mbeki became a member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the ANC in 1975. In 1976 he was again on the road, this time to Nigeria as a representative of the ANC where he played a major role in assisting students from South Africa to relocate in an unfamiliar environment. Once again the political road beckoned and he left Nigeria and returned to ANC headquarters in Lusaka in 1978. In the same year he become the political secretary in the Office of the President of the ANC. Between 1984 and 1989 he was deployed as the Director of the Department of Information and Publicity. He was re-elected to the NEC in 1985, at the same time serving as Director of Information and as Secretary for Presidential Affairs. The 1980s proved hectic for the would-be president. He became a member of the ANC's Political and Military Council; member of the delegation that met the South African business community led by the Chairman of Anglo American, Gavin Relly, at Mfuwe, Zambia (1985); led a delegation of the ANC to Dakar, Senegal, where talks were held with a delegation from the Institute for a Democratic Alternative for South Africa (IDASA) in 1987. His increasing political leadership role saw him lead the ANC delegation which held secret talks with the South African Government from 1989 and which led to agreements regarding the unbanning of the ANC and the release of political prisoners. Subsequently, he would be part of the delegation which engaged the National Party Government in talks about talks. He participated in the Groote Schuur and Pretoria deliberations, which resulted in the agreements which became known as the Groote Schuur and Pretoria Minutes (1990). Thabo Mbeki participated in all subsequent negotiations leading to the adoption of the interim Constitution for the new South Africa. In 1993, he was elected Chairperson of the ANC, succeeding the late former President and Chairperson of the ANC, Oliver R Tambo, with whom he had had a close working relationship over the years. In subsequent years, he was elected to the following positions: - Executive Deputy President of the South African Government of National Unity (May 1994 - 13 June 1999) - President of the ANC (18 December 1997) - President of the Republic of South Africa (1999) - Chairperson of the African Union (July 2002 - July 2003) - President of the Republic of South Africa (2004, second term) Thabo Mbeki has achieved the following awards: - Honorary Doctorate from Rand Afrikaans University (17 September 1999) - Honorary Doctorate of Laws from the Glasgow Caledonian University (19 May 2000) - Newsmaker of the Year from Pretoria Press Club (22 August 2000) - Member of the Steering Committee of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (Nepad)
