=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Azusa Street Revival - Wikipedia]
TheAzusaStreet Revival was a historic series of revivalmeetingsthat took place in Los Angeles, California. [1] It was led by William J.Seymour, an African-American preacher. The revival began on April 9, 1906, and continued until roughly 1915.Seymourwas invited to Los Angeles for a one-monthengagement at a local church, but found himself barred due to his controversial views on baptism ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azusa_Street_Revival

[CAAM | #blackhistory: On April 9, 1906, the Azusa Street Revival begins ...]
Perched at the extreme western edge of a continent and country both, California has been a site of invention and reinvention since its founding. Chief on that long list of innovations is the Azuza Street Revival, a transformational series ofmeetingsthat began in Los Angeles at 312 Azuza Street on April 9, 1906, and is counted as a defining moment in the history of the Pentecostal movement ...
URL: https://caamuseum.org/learn/600state/black-history/blackhistory-on-april-9-1906-the-azusa-street-revival-begins-in-los-angeles

[Azusa Street Revival - religionfacts.com]
Thechurch found an availablebuilding, an old 4,800-square-foot warehouse, at 312AzusaSt for $8 amonth.Thegroup'sfirstmeetingthere was on April 14, 1906.
URL: https://religionfacts.com/azusa-street-revival

[Azusa Now: Praying For Revival - City News]
Thegroup were eventually forced to relocate. They found an availablebuilding, an old 4,800-square-foot warehouse, at 312AzusaStreet for US$8 amonth.Thegroup'sfirstmeetingthere was on April 14, 1906. By the followingmonth,services as many as 1,500 people at a time, and these attendees were racially and economically diverse.
URL: https://www.citynews.sg/2016/04/09/azusa-now-praying-for-revival/

[The Forgotten Azusa Street Mission: The Place where the First ...]
Seymour, pastor of theAzusaStreet Mission, and a few trusted friends met with the pastor ofFirstAME Church and negotiated a lease for $8 amonth. An early photograph reveals what the 1906 version of the map indicates. The pitched roof had not been replaced. Thebuildinghad a flat roof.
URL: https://cupandcross.com/the-forgotten-azusa-street-mission-the-place-where-the-first-pentecostals-met/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Azusa Street Revival - Wikipedia] ---
The Azusa Street Revival was a historic series of revival meetings that took place in Los Angeles, California. It was led by William J. Seymour, an African-American preacher. The revival began on April 9, 1906, and continued until roughly 1915. 
Seymour was invited to Los Angeles for a one-month engagement at a local church, but found himself barred due to his controversial views on baptism with the Holy Ghost after his first Sunday. He continued his ministry in the homes of sympathetic parishioners, and on the night of April 9, 1906, first one, then six others in his meeting began to speak in tongues and shout out loud praising God, so loudly that the neighborhood was alerted. The news quickly spread; the city was stirred; crowds gathered; services were moved outside to accommodate the crowds who came from all around; people fell down as they approached, and attributed it to God; people were baptized in the Holy Spirit and the sick were healed. 
The testimony of those who attended the Azusa Street Revival was "I am saved, sanctified, and filled with the Holy Ghost" in reference to the three works of grace of Holiness Pentecostals, the original branch of Pentecostalism. To further accommodate the crowds, an old dilapidated, two-story frame building at 312 Azusa Street in the industrial section of the city was secured. This building, originally built for an African Methodist Episcopal (AME) church, had more recently been used as a livery stable, storage building and tenement house. In this humble Azusa Street mission, a continuous three-year revival occurred and became known around the world. Stanley H. Frodsham, in his book, With Signs Following, quotes an eye-witness description of the scene: The revival was characterized by spiritual experiences accompanied with testimonies of physical healing miracles, worship services, and speaking in tongues. The participants were criticized by some secular media and Christian theologians for behaviors considered to be outrageous and unorthodox, especially at the time.
Today, the revival is considered by historians to be the primary catalyst for the spread of Pentecostalism in the 20th century.




--- [CAAM | #blackhistory: On April 9, 1906, the Azusa Street Revival begins ...] ---
No content


--- [Azusa Street Revival - religionfacts.com] ---
The Asuza Street Revival, while not the exact moment that modern Pentecostalism began, was arguably the most significant early event of the movement, which undoubtedly catapulted this particular expression of Christianity around the United States and eventually around the world. Several Pentecostal Christian denominations today trace their roots to the Asuza Street Revival, including the Assemblies of God and the Church of God in Christ (Cleveland, Tennessee). Christian history in 20th century America shows that the Azusa Street Revival lived on in the teaching and preaching of ministers and laypersons who visited the meetings and then took their experience home with them. Visitors traveled back to all corners of the United States, taking the Pentecostal message and experience with them, influencing scores of Christians. The Revivals William Seymour On April 14, 1906, an African-American preacher named William J. ("W.J.") Seymour, held a church service in an old warehouse on 312 Azusa Street in Los Angeles, California. That service was the beginning of a three-year revival at that location, which was characterized by the Pentecostal message of baptism in the Holy Spirit and the Pentecostal experience of speaking in tongues. "The Azusa St. Revival" ignited a worldwide movement, the growth of which has seldom been seen in the history of Christianity. Seymour arrived in Los Angeles in February 1906, with the intention of staying one month, at the invitation of Neely Terry, a member of a local Holiness Church who had met the preacher while visiting his church in Texas. Seymour's message of baptism in the Holy Spirit being evidenced by speaking in tongues was mostly rejected at Terry's church because Seymour himself hadn't experience it. There was, however, a small group of people that sought more teaching from him on the subject. Bonnie Brae Street Seymour's small group met in a house-church on Bonnie Brae Street, the home of Richard and Ruth Asberry. On April 12, 1906, after praying all night, Seymour reports to have spoken in tongues for the first time. When word got out that unusual expressions of the Holy Spirit were occurring at the small house church, crowds flocked to the residence, eventually forcing the group to another location. The church found an available building, an old 4,800-square-foot warehouse, at 312 Azusa St for $8 a month. The group’s first meeting there was on April 14, 1906. By the next month, services contained a minimum of 300 people and as many as 1,500. Attendees were racially and economically diverse. People came from different Christian denominations as well. Baptists, Quakers, and Presbyterians were among those who participated. The gatherings at Azusa Street were unlike other church service in that there were no instruments, no choirs, and no offerings taken. Skepticism Criticism was sharp from The Los Angeles Times newspaper, which described the meetings as hyper-emotionalism. Criticism also came from Bethel Bible College-founder, and former Seymour supporter, Charles Parham, who was disgusted at the intermingling of different races, among other things. By 1915 the crowds had dwindled significantly, yet Seymour continued to minister there to a small congregation until he died from a heart attack in 1922. The old warehouse was demolished in 1938.


--- [Azusa Now: Praying For Revival - City News] ---
This week marks the 110th anniversary of the Azusa Street Revival of 1906, with a 100,000-person gathering happening today in Los Angeles, called Azusa Now. City News looks at the then and now of this world-changing event. The 1906 Azusa Street Revival was the most important event in the history of the modern day Pentecostal church. Over the 110 years, the effects of Azusa could be felt worldwide—the Holy Spirit manifested Himself across nations over the past 11 decades. Later today in Los Angeles, starting at 7am (Pacific Time) and ending at 10.30pm, over 100,000 Christians will be gathering at the LA Coliseum to celebrate Azusa Now, an event organized by TheCall, a ministry by preacher Lou Engle. According to TheCall’s website this is what will happen at the event: “Believing that decades of globe-spanning prayer have saturated the heavens, we will boldly ask God for the rain of revival on April 9th, 2016. We will consecrate an entire day — 15 hours — for the purpose of unity, miracles, healing, and the proclamation of the gospel. Our rally cry: Come, Holy Spirit! Instead of 120 in the Upper Room, we seek to gather as many as 120,000 in one place and one accord to simply exalt Jesus. And for inspiration, we turn to the most powerful expression of revival in modern times: the historic Azusa Street Revival of 1906.” HOW DID THE AZUSA STREET REVIVAL COME ABOUT? On April 14, 1906, an African-American preacher named William J (“WJ”) Seymour, held a church service in an old warehouse on Azusa Street in Los Angeles, California. That service was the beginning of a three-year revival at that location, which was characterized by the Pentecostal message of baptism in the Holy Spirit and the Pentecostal experience of speaking in tongues. “The Azusa St. Revival” ignited a worldwide movement, the growth of which has seldom been seen in the history of Christianity. Seymour’s small group met in a house-church on Bonnie Brae Street, the home of Richard and Ruth Asberry. On April 12, 1906, after praying all night, Seymour spoke in tongues for the first time. When word got out that unusual expressions of the Holy Spirit were occurring at the small house-church, crowds flocked to the residence. The group were eventually forced to relocate. They found an available building, an old 4,800-square-foot warehouse, at 312 Azusa Street for US$8 a month. The group’s first meeting there was on April 14, 1906. By the following month, services as many as 1,500 people at a time, and these attendees were racially and economically diverse. People came from different denominations as well, from Baptists to Quakers, and Presbyterians. The gatherings at Azusa Street were unlike other church service—there was no choir, no taking of offering, just thousands baptized in the Holy Spirit, speaking and singing in tongues. There was also prayer happening on a brand new level and healings and miracles abounded. Three key factors at Azusa mirrored the reality of the formation of the church in Acts 2. Firstly, there was a multi-ethnic gathering of unity in Christ (Acts 2:1-11). Secondly, the miraculous, attesting ministry of the Holy Spirit was enjoyed in a unique way (Acts 2:2-4). Finally, there was a clear presentation of the Gospel leading many to salvation (Acts 2:37-41). This outpouring of Heaven fell upon on the poor districts of Los Angeles during a volatile and prejudiced period of American history. God used Seymour, an African American to launch this modern Acts 2 movement. Black, white, Asian and Hispanic came together in bonds of love, unity and prayer. It was said that the “color line was washed away” at Azusa. Probably the most important legacy of the Azusa Street Revival was the renewal of the gifts of the Spirit (also called charismata) for the modern church. For centuries, Western churches, both Roman Catholic and Protestant, had adopted the view that the gifts of the Spirit had ceased at the end of the Apostolic Age. Known as the cessation theory, this view became especially dominant among fundamentalists that rejected Pentecostalism. With the explosion of tongues at Azusa Street, the attention of the Church was also drawn to the other gifts of the Spirit. In addition to praying in tongues, or glossolalia, the gifts of prophecy and healing came into prominence. THE IMPACT ON SINGAPORE AND CITY HARVEST CHURCH According to senior pastor of City Harvest Church, Kong Hee, “in 1960, the Pentecostal movement entered mainline Protestant churches when American Anglican vicar, Reverend Dennis Bennett, became Spirit-filled and started speaking in tongues. What followed became known as the ‘Charismatic Renewal of the 20th Century’.” In Singapore, in 1972, the Holy Spirit was poured out upon some Singaporean students of Anglo-Chinese School and St. Andrew’s School in similarly dramatic fashion. They experienced the baptism in the Holy Spirit and spoke in tongues in September that same year. Many consider those events as the birth of the Charismatic movement in Singapore. To ensure that those zealous Christian youths were not led astray, Anglican clergy Reverend Canon James Wong, founder of the Chapel of the Ascension, was assigned to provide pastoral oversight over them. Kong recalls: “During the last week of December 1972, Reverend Ralph Wilkerson, the senior pastor of Melodyland Christian Center in Anaheim, California, came to Singapore. Canon Wong became very open to the Holy Spirit and was himself filled with the Holy Spirit. Anglican Bishop Chiu Ban It and Canon Wong were like the apostles Peter and John in the Book of Acts, and brought the Charismatic Renewal to all of Singapore and South-east Asia from 1974 to 1975. Today, these two men are widely recognized as the pioneers of the ‘Charismatic Renewal’ in Singapore. “It was during those exciting times when I myself received Jesus Christ as my Savior and Lord, and experienced Him as the Baptizer in the Holy Spirit. Although I was only 11 years old then, and had never been to a Charismatic service, I too spoke in other tongues when the Holy Spirit came upon me at the ‘upper room’ of my grandmother’s house.” The word “revival” comes from the Latin word “revive”, which means the bringing back to life of that which was previously dead. It is a season when God works in the hearts of men in a much deeper way, to usher in the “times of refreshing” (Acts 3:19). “In a revival, we often see and sense God working powerfully not just in one or a few lives, but among the masses,” says Kong. “We will see believers being ‘revived’, passionately seeking God, and becoming true disciples with a zeal and urgency to win the lost in the power of the Holy Spirit. Signs and wonders often follow the preaching of the Word (Mark 16:20), and notable and unusual miracles are common occurrences (Acts 19:11-12).” During a season of revival, Christians become deeply concerned about their own spiritual lives, and about God’s kingdom purpose for their generation. Every revival is indelibly marked by tremendous spiritual hunger for Bible studies, fervency in prayer and the ministry of power evangelism, Kong describes. The senior pastor believes, looking at the growth of the Christian population, that Singapore is experiencing what the early Church experienced. “Back in 1975 when I was saved, only a small percentage of Singaporeans were Christians,” he says. “But evangelism [has been] spreading like wild fire throughout the body of Christ in Singapore [these four decade], and by 2015, Christian population had grown to 18.8 per cent, in the same period when Singapore’s population grew from a little over 2 million to 5.5 million people. What happened in Acts 2 to 5 is truly happening in our days, in our country. We must continue to fan the flames of revival in City Harvest Church and in Singapore.” In Singapore, where racial harmony is a priority, perhaps this country is already primed for a next wave of revival. As Azusa Now organizer Lou Engle puts it, “In the midst of the worldwide upheaval of Islamic terror, political confusion, racial tension, and the great moral slide in America we believe that the color line can be washed away in the blood of Jesus and the great outpouring of the Holy Spirit could be unleashed as it was at Azusa Street in 1906.” Catch the live stream of Azusa Now starting at 10pm Singapore time, Saturday, April 2, 2016.


--- [The Forgotten Azusa Street Mission: The Place where the First ...] ---
The Forgotten Azusa Street Mission: The Place where the First Pentecostals Met For years, the building on Azusa Street has also been an enigma. Most people are familiar with the same three or four photographs that have been published and republished through the years. They show a rectangular, boxy, wood frame structure that was 40 feet by 60 feet and desperately in need of repair. Seymour began his meetings in the Mission on April 15, 1906. A work crew set up a pulpit made from a wooden box used for shipping shoes from the manufacturer to stores. The pulpit sat in the center of the room. A piece of cotton cloth covered its top. Osterberg built an altar with donated lumber that ran between two chairs. Space was left open for seekers. Bartleman sketched seating as nothing more than a few long planks set on nail kegs and a ragtag collection of old chairs. What the new sources have revealed about the Mission, however, is fascinating. The people worshiped on the ground level — a dirt floor, on which straw and sawdust were scattered. The walls were never finished, but the people whitewashed the rough-cut lumber. Near the door hung a mailbox into which tithes and offerings were placed since they did not take offerings at the Mission. A sign greeted visitors with vivid green letters. It read “Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin” (Daniel 5:25, kjv), with its Ns written backwards and its Ss upside down. Men hung their hats on exposed overhead rafters where a single row of incandescent lights ran the length of the room. These sources also reveal that the atmosphere within this crude building — without insulation or air conditioning, and teeming with perspiring bodies — was rank at best. As one writer put it, “It was necessary to stick one’s nose under the benches to get a breath of air.” Several announced that the meetings were plagued by flies. “Swarms of flies,” wrote one reporter, “attracted by the vitiated atmosphere, buzzed throughout the room, and it was a continual fight for protection.” A series of maps drawn by the Sanborn Insurance Company give a clear picture of the neighborhood. The 1888 map discloses that Azusa Street was originally Old Second Street. The street was never more than one block in length. It ended at a street paving company with piles of coal, along with heavy equipment. A small house, marked on the map by a “D” for domicile, sat on the front of the property with the address of 87. (See highlighted section.) A marble works business specializing in tombstones stood on the southeast corner of Azusa Street and San Pedro. Orange and grapefruit orchards surrounded the property. On the right of the map a Southern Pacific railroad spur is clearly visible. The City Directory indicates that the neighborhood was predominantly Jewish, though other names were mixed among them. A second map of the property was published in 1894. Old Second Street had become Azusa Street, and the address had been changed to 312. The house had been moved further back on the property where it served as a parsonage. The dominant building at 312 Azusa Street was the Stevens African Methodist Episcopal Church. At the front of the building a series of tiny parallel lines on the map mark a staircase that stood at the north end of the building providing entry to the second floor, the original sanctuary. The only known photograph of the church from this period shows three interesting features. First, it shows the original staircase. Second, and less obvious, the original roofline had a steep pitch. Third, three gothic style windows with tracery lines adorned the front wall. By 1894, the citrus groves had largely disappeared. On the southern side they were replaced by lawn. The smell of orange blossoms and the serenity of the orchard were rapidly being replaced by the banging of railroad cars and the smell of new lumber. A growing number of boarding houses and small businesses, including canneries and laundries, were moving into the immediate area by this time. The property marked “YARD” on the map is the beginning of the lumberyard that soon came to dominate the area. The City Directory reveals fewer Jewish names, and more racial and ethnic diversity in the neighborhood, including African Americans, Germans, Scandinavians, and Japanese. Stevens AME Church occupied the building at 312 Azusa Street until February 1904 when the congregation dedicated a new brick facility at the corner of 8th and Towne and changed their name to First AME Church. Before the congregation could decide what to do with the property on Azusa Street, however, an arsonist set the vacant church building on fire. The structure was greatly weakened, and the roof was completely destroyed. The congregation decided to turn the building into a tenement house. They subdivided the former second-floor sanctuary into several rooms separated by a long hallway that ran the length of the building. The stairs were removed from the front of the building and a rear stairwell was constructed, leaving the original entry hanging in space. The lower level was used to house horses and to store building supplies, including lumber and nails. In 1906, a new Sanborn Map was published. (See 1906 map.) The building was marked with the words “Lodgings 2nd, Hall 1st, CHEAP.” The transition of the neighborhood had continued. The marble work still occupied the southeast corner of Azusa Street and San Pedro, but a livery and feed supply store now dominated the northeast corner. A growing lumberyard to the south and east of the property now replaced the once sprawling lawn. A Southern Pacific railroad spur curved through the lumberyard to service this business. The Apostolic Faith, the newspaper of the Azusa Street Mission between September 1906 and June 1908, later referred to the nearby Russian community. Many of these recent immigrants were employed in the lumberyard. They were not Russian Orthodox Christians as one might guess; they were Molokans — “Milk drinkers.” This group had been influenced by some of the 16th-century Reformers. They did not accept the dairy fasts of the Orthodox Church. They were Trinitarians who strongly believed in the ongoing guidance of the Holy Spirit. Demos Shakarian, grandfather of the founder of Full Gospel Business Men’s International, was among these immigrants who were led to Los Angeles through a prophetic word given in 1855. Henry McGowan, later an Assemblies of God pastor in Pasadena, was a member of the Holiness Church at the time. He was employed as a teamster. He timed his arrival at the nearby lumberyard so he could visit the Mission during its afternoon services. This map suggests why some viewed the Mission as being in a slum. A better description would be an area of developing light industry. In April 1906, when the people who had been meeting at the house at 214 North Bonnie Brae Street were forced to move, they found the building at 312 Azusa Street was for sale. The photograph below taken about the time that the congregation chose to move into the building shows the “For Sale” sign posted high on the east wall of the building, as well as the rear of the tombstone shop. Seymour, pastor of the Azusa Street Mission, and a few trusted friends met with the pastor of First AME Church and negotiated a lease for $8 a month. An early photograph reveals what the 1906 version of the map indicates. The pitched roof had not been replaced. The building had a flat roof. The staircase that had stood at the front of the building had been removed. In a sense, this building suited the Azusa Street faithful. They were not accustomed to luxury. They were willing to meet in the stable portion of the building. The upstairs could be used for prayer rooms, church offices, and a home for Pastor Seymour. Articles of incorporation were filed with the state of California on March 9, 1907, and amended May 19, 1914. The church negotiated the purchase of the property for $15,000 with $4,000 down. It was given the necessary cash to retire the mortgage in 1908. The sale was recorded by the County of Los Angeles on April 12, 1908.
