=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia]
Muholi completed an Advanced Photography course at the Market Photo Workshop in Newtown, Johannesburg in 2003, and held their first solo exhibition at the Johannesburg Art Gallery in 2004. In 2009 they were awarded their Master of Fine Arts degree in Documentary Media from Ryerson University ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zanele_Muholi

[Zanele Muholi: Art and activism - 1854 Photography]
Nov 24, 2021 · In Only Half the Picture (2002-2006), which garnered Muholi critical acclaim when it was exhibited at their first solo exhibition Visual Sexuality: Only Half the Picture, at the Johannesburg Art Gallery in 2004, the artist presents anonymous images of survivors of rape and hate crimes.
URL: https://www.1854.photography/2021/11/zanele-muholi-art-and-activism/

[Artist as Activist · SFMOMA]
In 2011, the museum included their ... Acts in South Africa, co-organized with Yerba Buena Center for the Arts. Now, Zanele Muholi: Eye Me continues SFMOMA’s commitment to Muholi by presenting the artist’s first major solo ...
URL: https://www.sfmoma.org/read/artist-as-activist-zanele-muholi-eye-me/

[Zanele Muholi: Somnyama Ngonyama, Hail the Dark Lioness]
Most recently, Muholi was bestowed France’s highest cultural honor, the Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts des Lettres. They were included in the South African pavilion at the 55th Venice Biennale (2013) and took part in the São Paolo Biennial (2010) and documenta 13, Kassel (2013). Recent solo exhibitions include the Brooklyn Museum, New York (2015); Rencontres d’Arles (2016); and Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam (2017).
URL: https://seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/zanele-muholi

[Hail the Dark Lioness: Zanele Muholi's Exhibition of Striking Self-Portraits Opens at the Seattle Art Museum Tomorrow - Culture Type]
Curated by Renée Mussai, the exhibition was Muholi’s first solo show in London, where it was organized by Autograph and first presented in 2017. The exhibition made its U.S. debut last year at the Spelman College Museum of Fine Art. In the fully illustrated volume published to document the project, Mussai conducts a conversation with the artist.
URL: https://www.culturetype.com/2019/07/09/hail-the-dark-lioness-zanele-muholis-exhibition-of-striking-self-portraits-opens-at-the-seattle-art-museum-tomorrow/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia] ---
Zanele Muholi  (born 1972) is a South African artist and visual activist working in photography, video, and installation. Muholi's work focuses on race, gender and sexuality with a body of work that dates back to the early 2000s, documenting and celebrating the lives of South Africa's Black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex communities. Muholi is non-binary and uses they/them pronouns, explaining that "I'm just human".
Muholi has described themselves as a visual activist as opposed to an artist. They are dedicated to increasing the visibility of black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex people. They researched and documented the stories of hate crimes against the LGBTQI community in order to bring forth the realities of "corrective rape," assault, and HIV/AIDS, to public attention.[1]
Muholi was shortlisted for the Deutsche Börse Photography Prize in 2015. They received an Infinity Award from the International Center of Photography in 2016, a Chevalier de Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2016, and an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Photographic Society in 2018.
Muholi had a retrospective exhibition on at Maison européenne de la photographie in Paris from 1 February to 25 May 2023. Their work was also shown that year at Mudec-Museo delle Culture in Milan, from 31 March through 30 July 2023, showcasing 60 self-portraits in black and white chosen especially for Mudec.


--- [Zanele Muholi: Art and activism - 1854 Photography] ---
Could you speak about the very beginnings of your career as a photographer, including your time at the Market Photo Workshop [founded in 1989 by South African photographer David Goldblatt to provide arts education during apartheid] in Johannesburg, and Ryerson University in Toronto? How did growing up during apartheid impact your practice and what turned you on to photography and the possibility of representing yourself and Black Queer identity? Who and what has influenced you? Market Photo Workshop was part of my formative period as a photographer and marked a very important time of transition and learning for me. Photography became my therapy and a tool of expression that helped me survive and deal with personal issues, including the time when I was studying at Ryerson and my mother was unwell. I can’t say that any singular thing or any singular person has been my influence. Experience is my driving force and my experiences have been my influences; these change, and how I understand these experiences also change. What I felt and where I was in 2016 is not the same as in 2018 and those shifts are reflected in the visual material – hence I speak about ‘phases’ in my series. In 2020, the context has changed for all of us and so have our experiences. We fear the unknown in a whole new way and for someone that works with images, this presents a new form of influence. There has been a sea-change in the visibility of Black artists in the West, and artists from the African continent in particular, which has happened relatively recently. Why now, in your opinion? Has the art world woken up, or been shamed into opening up, or is there a generation of artists whose work demands to be seen? Or, is it all these things and other reasons besides? The intergenerational conversations, traumatic experiences and collaborations within institutions and communities has led to the rise of visibility for Black artists in the West and across the African continent. It is clear that across the world people were questioning the institutions and ways of thinking that kept them on the sidelines, implying we were not worthy. In South Africa, although apartheid ended in 1994, it was with movements like Rhodes Must Fall [a protest movement that emerged on 09 March 2015 at the University of Cape Town, in reaction to a statue of Cecil Rhodes, the ardent imperialist, and evolved into a wider movement to decolonise education across South Africa], and Fees Must Fall [a student-led protest movement in October 2015, which spread throughout the country and demanded an end to rising student fees and an increase in government funding of universities] almost 20 years later – that we started having long conversations about privilege and how cycles of oppression are maintained. This discrimination starts within education: young Black kids were being told in school that their natural hair was unclean or messy because it did not grow straight or fall on their shoulders. It took 20 years for us to really acknowledge what this meant and call it by its name. In other parts of the world, Black Lives Matter has been growing; in the UK, the Grenfell Tower fire asked people to really think about who gets to count in their society and who doesn’t. Race, class and privilege are intimately connected to wealth, access and exclusion. The world of art is not isolated from all of this – it is informed by the time it is in as well as the context in which it operates and continues to operate. It is also crucial to remember that Black artists have always been there, working tirelessly with these issues. But they were written out of a history and a world that wasn’t yet prepared to see them. Things are changing, but there is a lot of work to be done. The last time your work was shown in London in the context of a major solo show, it was at Autograph, and it was one of the first showings of Somnyama Ngonyama. Returning for a solo exhibition at Tate Modern, a rarity for any kind of photographer, let alone someone of your age, does it reinforce the sense of how much Somnyama Ngonyama was a game-changer in how your work was received and perceived? As per your previous question, there has been a sea-change in the visibility of Black artists recently. As a socio-politically engaged visual arts organisation that champions issues around visibility, race and representation, Autograph has been at the forefront of advocating for Black artists such as myself for decades — long before this present moment. Looking at it more broadly, it is important to pay attention to how this ‘sea-change’ is connected to the change in how we engage with imperial histories and Black bodies within those histories. Last year, museums were being held to task to return artefacts acquired through colonialism — you can see this as ‘the formerly othered’ saying ‘enough is enough’. Somnyama Ngonyama does the same, it speaks to these issues clearly and openly, and I am glad to know that mainstream institutions like Tate understand this and have the willingness, presence and enthusiasm to engage. However, the exhibition at Tate is not only of Somnyama Ngonyama. It is a survey of my whole practice.


--- [Artist as Activist · SFMOMA] ---
No content


--- [Zanele Muholi: Somnyama Ngonyama, Hail the Dark Lioness] ---
No content


--- [Hail the Dark Lioness: Zanele Muholi's Exhibition of Striking Self-Portraits Opens at the Seattle Art Museum Tomorrow - Culture Type] ---
THE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM is presenting an ongoing series of self-portraits by South African photographer Zanele Muholi. Opening July 10, “Somnyama Ngonyama, Hail the Dark Lioness” features 76 black-and-white portraits and large-scale photographic wall papers. The series reimagines so-called classic portraiture and re-articulates notions of race, representation, and identity. Muholi’s own face and body serve as a canvas. Visually, the striking images are studies in contrast, juxtaposing dark and light. In terms of style, fashion photography comes to mind. The artist also capitalizes on some of the stereotypical tropes of ethnographic imagery. Substantively, the portraits challenge the politics of identity and raise critical social justice and human rights issues. ZANELE MUHOLI, “Julile I, Parktown, Johannesburg,” 2016. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York The artist, who prefers the gender-neutral pronouns they/them, adopts various archetypes and personas in the images, accessorizing with props and objects to reflect their personal experiences and certain cultural and historic narratives. Muholi lies naked on a bed of inflated plastic bags representing the large uterine fibroids they had removed in 2016. A dramatic, life-threatening experience, the artist lost a lot of blood and stopped working for a few months while recovering from the operation. In another portrait, Muholi is laden with a bevy of tubes. The depiction raises the issue of medical apartheid in which those with fewer resources are unable to access the kind of medical care the artist received because they can’t afford it. For a portrait paying homage to their mother, who was employed as a domestic worker, the artist dons a crown and earrings made from clothes pins. Wearing a miner’s helmet and goggles, Muholi references the 2012 Marikana massacre, to preserve the memory of the 34 South African miners killed by police while striking for better pay and working conditions at a platinum mine. Muholi is a self-described visual activist. The artist came to international attention for their documentary-style portraits of South African LGBTQ and gender-nonconfirming individuals. They took their first self portrait in 2012 and didn’t return to themself as a subject again until 2014. With the ongoing series Somnyama Ngonyama (which translates from the artist’s native Zulu to Hail the Dark Lioness), the artist’s work entered another realm—visually and politically. Curated by Renée Mussai, the exhibition was Muholi’s first solo show in London, where it was organized by Autograph and first presented in 2017. The exhibition made its U.S. debut last year at the Spelman College Museum of Fine Art. In the fully illustrated volume published to document the project, Mussai conducts a conversation with the artist. She asks Muholi what the self portraits represent, suggesting they “offer a repertoire of resistance.” In response, Muholi says in part: “…Somnyama is not only about beautiful photographs, as such, but also about bringing forth political statements. The series touches on beauty and relates to historical incidents, giving affirmation to those who doubt whenever they speak to themselves, whenever they look in the mirror, to say ‘You are worthy. You count. Nobody has the right to undermine you—because of your being, because of your race, because of your gender expression, because of your sexuality, because of all that you are.'” CT FIND MORE about Zanele Muholi in a profile published by The Guardian ZANELE MUHOLI, “Ntozakhe II, Parktown,” 2016. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Bester I, Mayotte,” 2015. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Bona, Charlottesville,” 2015. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Bester VII, Newington Green, London,” 2017. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “MaID II, Atlanta,” 2017 © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Bayephi III, Constitution Hill, Johannesburg,” 2017. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Autograph ABP, London ZANELE MUHOLI, “Hlonipha, Cassilhaus, Chapel Hill, North Carolina,” 2016. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “ZaKi, Kyoto, Japan,” 2017. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Autograph ABP, London ZANELE MUHOLI, “Sebenzile, Parktown,” 2016. © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Kwanele, Parktown,” 2016. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York ZANELE MUHOLI, “Somnyama Ngonyama II, Oslo,” 2015. | © Zanele Muholi. Courtesy of Stevenson, Cape Town/Johannesburg and Yancey Richardson, New York BOOKSHELF Aperture published “Zanele Muholi: Somnyama Ngonyama, Hail the Dark Lioness,” a fully illustrated monograph documenting the artist’s ongoing self-portrait project. The volume is featured on Culture Type’s Best Black Art Books of 2018 list. The artist’s work is also explored in “Zanele Muholi (Fotografas Africanas / African Women Photographers),” “Faces and Phases: Zanele Muholi,” and “Zanele Muholi: Faces and Phases 2006-2014.”
