=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Soap star Susan Lucci wins first Emmy after 19 nominations]
“The streak is over… Susan Lucci!” announces Shemar Moore of The Young and the Restless on this night in 1999, right before presenting the Daytime Emmy Award ...
URL: https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/may-21/soap-star-susan-lucci-wins-first-emmy-after-19-nominations

[The 26th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards (TV Special 1999)]
Shemar Moore - Presenter: [Presenting for Lead Actress in a Drama Series] And the outstanding Diva is... THE STREAK IS OVER! SUSAN LUCCI! Connections.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0428193/

['The Streak Is Over!': Remembering Susan Lucci's Overdue Daytime ...]
May 21, 2024 — Then came the 1999 Daytime Emmys. Presenter Shemar Moore, then a star of The Young and the Restless, opened the envelope and delivered the long- ...
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1136802/susan-lucci-1999-daytime-emmy-award-win/

[Shemar Moore Will Present Susan Lucci with Daytime Emmys' Lifetime ...]
Dec 11, 2023 — The 'Young and the Restless' alum Shemar Moore will present Susan Lucci with the Daytime Emmys' Lifetime Achievement Award on Dec. 15.
URL: https://people.com/shemar-moore-will-present-susan-lucci-with-daytime-emmys-lifetime-achievement-award-exclusive-8413840

[26th Daytime Emmy Awards]
The 26th Daytime Emmy Awards were held in 1999 to commemorate ... Susan Lucci (Erica Kane, All My Children); Melody Thomas Scott (Nikki Newman ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/26th_Daytime_Emmy_Awards


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Soap star Susan Lucci wins first Emmy after 19 nominations] ---
“The streak is over…Susan Lucci!” announces Shemar Moore of The Young and the Restless on this night in 1999, right before presenting the Daytime Emmy Award for Best Actress to the tearful star of ABC’s All My Children. The award was Lucci’s first win in 19 straight years of being nominated in the Best Actress category for her portrayal of Erica Kane. A native of Garden City, New York, Lucci moved to New York City after graduating from college in 1968. She played bit parts in the films Goodbye, Columbus and Me, Natalie (both 1969) before landing the role of the troubled teenager Erica Kane on a new soap opera, All My Children. The show debuted on January 5, 1970, and Lucci would go on to play Erica Kane over the next four decades, as the character married no fewer than 11 times (to eight different men, and several of the marriages were invalid), had several children and grandchildren, was kidnapped, survived an airplane crash and a car accident, battled drug addiction and became the owner of her own cosmetics company (among other notable events). By 1991, Erica Kane was, according to TV Guide, “unequivocally the most famous soap-opera character in the history of TV.” As reported by the New York Times, Lucci at that time was the highest-paid actor on daytime television, earning more than $1 million per year for her work on All My Children. Her honors included a Best Soap Actress win in a 1985 People magazine poll, and a 1989 Soap Opera Digest Editors Award for an “outstanding contribution to daytime television.” One thing she didn’t have, however, was an Emmy. She received her first nomination in 1978, and before long had received several nominations in a row without a win. After reportedly losing her temper after failing to take home the award in 1982 and 1983, Lucci began accepting her runner-up status with more humor. In the fall of 1990, she appeared as a guest host on an episode of Saturday Night Live, in which all of the show’s cast and crew members carried Emmy statuettes past her during her opening monologue. She also filmed a commercial for a sugar substitute called the Sweet One, in which she lampooned her own hunger for an Emmy. Lucci was the favorite to win that May night in 1999, and Moore’s announcement brought the audience in the theater at Madison Square Garden to their feet for a standing ovation that lasted several minutes. Lucci’s emotional acceptance speech brought tears to the eyes of many in the crowd, including the talk show host Rosie O’Donnell and Lucci’s All My Children co-stars Kelly Ripa and Marcy Walker. After thanking her husband, Helmut Huber, the All My Children cast and crew and her fans, Lucci closed her speech by announcing “I’m going to go back to that studio Monday and I’m going to play Erica Kane for all she’s worth.” In addition to her work on All My Children, Lucci guest-starred repeatedly on the prime-time soap opera Dallas during the 1990s and has appeared in a number of TV movies and series.


--- [The 26th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards (TV Special 1999)] ---
Sarah Joy Brown - Self - Nominee - (as Sarah Brown) - Director - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro User reviews Did you know - Quotes Shemar Moore - Presenter: [Presenting for Lead Actress in a Drama Series] And the outstanding Diva is... THE STREAK IS OVER! SUSAN LUCCI! - ConnectionsFeatured in The 38th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards (2011) Details - Release date - Country of origin - Official site - Language - Production company - See more company credits at IMDbPro - Runtime - 1h 29m(89 min) - Color Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- ['The Streak Is Over!': Remembering Susan Lucci's Overdue Daytime ...] ---
‘The Streak Is Over!’: Remembering Susan Lucci’s Overdue Daytime Emmy Win, 25 Years Later All My Children alum Susan Lucci had good reason to tell the 1999 Daytime Emmys audience she “truly never believed” that her Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series win would happen. After all, the soap legend behind Erica Kane had lost that award 18 times — and had lost to Guiding Light’s Kim Zimmer and One Life to Live’s Erika Slezak multiple times — by the time she finally took home the trophy 25 years ago now, on May 21, 1999. By that point, Lucci had become the highest-paid actor on daytime television, but Emmy gold was still out of reach. She had made light of her losing streak, as GoldDerby reports, on Saturday Night Live — in an opening monologue in which SNL’s cast and crew flaunt their Emmy trophies — and in a TV commercial — saying that with the sugar substitute Sweet One, she had everything she wanted “except that Emmy!” Lucci’s All My Children daughter Sarah Michelle Gellar had won a Daytime Emmy, but Lucci herself still had not. Then came the 1999 Daytime Emmys. Presenter Shemar Moore, then a star of The Young and the Restless, opened the envelope and delivered the long-awaited news. “The streak is over! Susan Lucci!” he exclaimed. The crowd at Madison Square Garden erupted into applause and cheers — Rosie O’Donnell cried, Oprah Winfrey whooped and hollered, Kelly Ripa shouted her support — and the ovation lasted two whole minutes. “The fact that you have thought that my work was worthy of notice 19 times is something that I will treasure always,” Lucci told her peers during her acceptance speech. She also gave her thanks to her diehard fans. “I wasn’t meant to get this award before tonight because if I had, I wouldn’t have that collection of poems and letters and drawings and balloons and chocolate cakes you made me all this time to make me feel better,” she said. Lucci vowed to go back to the studio the following Monday and “play Erica Kane for all she’s worth,” and she ended up getting two more Daytime Emmy nominations for the part, one in 2001 and another the following year. During an All My Children virtual cast reunion in 2020, Lucci admitted she thought Moore was announcing the playoff scores when he said the streak was over, since that year’s ceremony was held at New York Knicks’ home arena. “When he said my name, I didn’t hear it,” she added. “After, I think, what was the ninth time [being a nominee], I started to black out. I don’t know if it was self-protective … My biggest fear [was] that someday, I might just think they called my name and go up there.” The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences honored Lucci one more time last year, bestowing upon her the Daytime Emmys’ Lifetime Achievement Award. And once again, it was Moore who presented her with the trophy. “I didn’t think she was gonna win,” he said, recalling that night in 1999. “And I flipped over the card, and I almost cussed. And I was like, ‘Oh, sh–,’ and I said, ‘The streak is over!’”


--- [Shemar Moore Will Present Susan Lucci with Daytime Emmys' Lifetime ...] ---
Shemar Moore Will Present Susan Lucci with Daytime Emmys' Lifetime Achievement Award (Exclusive) The 'Young and the Restless' alum previously presented Lucci with her Emmy Award for outstanding lead actress in a drama series in 1999 By JP Mangalindan JP Mangalindan JP Mangalindan is a Senior Writer for TV at PEOPLE. He joined PEOPLE in May 2023. JP's work has previously appeared in publications like Fortune, Business Insider, TechCrunch, GQ, Teen People and Entertainment Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on December 11, 2023 07:00AM EST Shemar Moore (left) and Susan Lucci. Credit : Cliff Lipson/CBS, Justice Apple Susan Lucci will be honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 50th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards, a distinction that will be presented by Shemar Moore when the ceremony airs on Dec. 15. "I am truly humbled to receive this esteemed award from the Academy," Lucci said in a previous statement when news of her award first broke. "Throughout my career, I have been incredibly fortunate to work alongside exceptional talents and embraced by my fans that have been with me every step of the way. This honor is not just a reflection of my journey, but a testament to the enduring power of storytelling and the profound connection we are so lucky to forge with audiences all over the world through television." The daytime TV queen, 76, got her big break in the role of Erica Kane on All My Children in 1970 and played the role for 41 years until the show ended in 2011. Lucci had many memorable moments on the show and ultimately earned 21 nominations at the Daytime Emmy Awards for her iconic role. Lucci received her first Daytime Emmy nomination for outstanding lead actress in a drama series in 1978. She finally won in 1999 after 19 nominations, receiving the award from Moore that year. "The streak is over!" Moore famously said before presenting Lucci with her award. Susan Lucci with her Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 1999. Ron Galella, Ltd./Ron Galella Collection via Getty Susan Lucci Recalls Some of Her Favorite Memories on 'All My Children' Beyond All My Children, the actress found time to explore other projects, starring in the 1999 Broadway production of Annie Get Your Gun and had solo performances in theaters and cabarets across the country. On television, Lucci landed recurring roles on shows like Hot in Cleveland, Dallas, Army Wives and Devious Maids. In 2008, she competed on season 7 of Dancing with the Stars with partner Tony Dovolani, finishing sixth. The actress is also a New York Times bestselling author after releasing her autobiography, All My Life, in 2011, and has championed several charitable causes in her lifetime, including United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, the National AFib Campaign, March of Dimes, the New York Cancer Project, the American Stroke Association, and the American Heart Association, of which she currently serves as the National Ambassador for the Go Red for Women Movement. On the personal front, Lucci shares son Andreas Huber and daughter Liza Huber with her late husband Helmut Huber, who died in March 2022 at age 84. The two wed in 1969. Susan Lucci with Charles Frank on 'All My Children' in 1971. ABC Photo Archives/Disney General Entertainment Content via Getty Susan Lucci Honors 'Larger-Than-Life' Late Husband Helmut Huber with Heartfelt Speech at Daytime Emmys Earlier this year, Lucci recovered from her second heart surgery in four years. "I'm doing really well. I always keep an eye on myself, what's going on,” Lucci told PEOPLE in March, adding, "It is so far so good." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. The 50th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards air Friday, Dec. 15 at 9 p.m. ET on CBS. Close Read more: Entertainment TV Soap Operas


--- [26th Daytime Emmy Awards] ---
The 26th Daytime Emmy Awards were held in 1999 to commemorate excellence in daytime television programming from the previous year (1998). The main ceremonies were held May 21, 1999, at The Theater in Madison Square Garden in New York City and were televised live by CBS.
Memorable moments that occurred at the ceremonies included the ABC soap opera General Hospital winning a record number of Daytime Emmys with a total of eight, and Susan Lucci's first-ever win in the Outstanding Lead Actress category after losing a total of 18 times.
Winners in each category are in bold.
