=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Cooke (engraver) - Wikipedia]
Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of 14, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's The Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother, William ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Cooke_(engraver)

[Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Cooke, George (1781-1834)]
COOKE, GEORGE (1781–1834), line engraver, was born in London on 22 Jan. 1781. His father was a native of Frankfort-on-the-Main, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of fourteen George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802) [q. v.].
URL: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Dictionary_of_National_Biography,_1885-1900/Cooke,_George_(1781-1834)

[George Cooke (engraver) | Detailed Pedia]
Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of 14, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's The Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother, William ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-George_Cooke_(engraver)

[George Cooke (engraver) explained]
Life and work Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of 14, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's The Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/George_Cooke_(engraver)/

[George Cooke (engraver) - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia]
Sep 27, 2024 · George Cooke (22 January 1781 27 February 1834), was an English line engraver. Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of fourteen, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Ba
URL: https://alchetron.com/George-Cooke-%28engraver%29


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Cooke (engraver) - Wikipedia] ---
George Cooke (engraver) George Cooke (22 January 1781 – 27 February 1834), was an English line engraver.[1] Life and work [edit]Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of 14, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's The Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother, William Bernard Cooke.[1] Afterwards, he produced engravings for Pinkerton's 16-volume Collection of Voyages and Travels, during which his brother William made plans for the first edition of The Thames, to which George Cooke contributed two plates.[2] This work was followed by Picturesque Views on the Southern Coast of England, from drawings made principally by Turner.[3] It was commenced in 1814 and completed in 1826, and George Cooke engraved 15 plates, nearly one-third of the total, and some vignettes. Next appeared an improved edition of The Thames, for which he engraved the 'Launch of the Nelson' and the 'Fair on the Thames,' after Luke Clennell, and the 'Opening of Waterloo Bridge,' after Philip Reinagle.[1] Between 1817 and 1833 he produced, in connection with Loddiges of Hackney, London a number of plates for the Botanical Cabinet,'[4] and about the same time he engraved some of the plates, after Turner, for Hakewill's Picturesque Tour of Italy, 1820,[5] and Sir Walter Scott's Provincial Antiquities and Picturesque Scenery of Scotland, 1826,[6] in which latter work should be especially noted "Edinburgh from the Calton Hill". To these were added plates for Thomas Allason's Antiquities of Pola, 1819, John Spencer-Stanhope's Olympia, (published by Rodwell and Martin, 1824), and D'Oyly and Mant's Bible,[7] as well as some of those for John Hughes' Views in the South of France, chiefly on the Rhone, after Peter De Wint.[1] Besides these Cooke engraved a few plates for the publications of the Dilettanti Society, and for the Ancient Marbles in the British Museum,[8] and the Ancient Terracottas[9] in the same collection, and single plates after Turner of a "View of Gledhow" for Whitaker's Loidis and Elmete, and "Wentworth House" for Thomas Dunham Whitaker's History of Richmondshire. In 1815, he produced some lithographs for Henry Holland's Travels in the Ionian Isles, .... He also engraved the "Iron Bridge at Sunderland", from an outline by Edward Blore; for Surtees's History of Durham; and the "Monument of Sir Francis Bacon" in St Michael's Church, St Albans, for Robert Clutterbuck's History of Hertfordshire.[1] In 1825, Cooke finished his fine engraving of "Rotterdam", from Augustus Wall Callcott's picture belonging to the Earl of Essex, and shortly afterwards issued a prospectus announcing a series of plates from Callcott's works, of which two, "Antwerp" and "Dover", were begun and considerably advanced when vexation at the loss of the proceeds of his 'Rotterdam,'caused by the failure of his agent, led to their abandonment.[1] He then began, in 1826, the Views in London and its Vicinity,[10] engraved from drawings by Callcott, Stanfield, Roberts, Prout, Stark, Harding, Cotman, and Havell, ending with the 12th issue just before his death.[1] In 1833, Cooke produced Views of the Old and New London Bridges, executed conjointly with his son, Edward William Cooke, who also made the drawings. He also produced plates for Frederick Nash's Views in Paris, Colonel Batty's Views of European Cities, Baron Taylor's Spain published by Robert Jennings, Rhodes's Peak Scenery and Yorkshire Scenery, several for Stark's Scenery of the Rivers of Norfolk, and one of "Southampton", after Copley Fielding, for the Gallery of the Society of Painters in Water Colours.[1] Cooke was one of the original members of the "Society of Associated Engravers", who joined together for the purpose of engraving the pictures in the National Gallery, and two of his plates were in preparation at the time of his death. He likewise attempted engraving in mezzotint, and in that style executed a plate of 'Arundel Castle,' after Turner; but it was not a success, and was never published.[1] Cooke died of 'brain fever' on 27 February 1834 at Barnes, where he was buried.[1] References [edit]- ^ a b c d e f g h i j "Cooke, George (1781-1834)". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900. - ^ The Thames etc (Vernor, Hood & Sharpe and W.B. Cooke, 1811). - ^ Joseph Mallord William Turner. Picturesque views on the southern coast of England (J. and A. Arch, 1826). - ^ Conrad Loddiges (and sons). The Botanical Cabinet (J. & A. Arch, 1822) - ^ James Hakewill. A picturesque tour of Italy: from drawings made in 1816-1817 (J. Murray, 1820). - ^ Walter Scott. Provincial antiquities of Scotland, volume II (R. Cadell, 1834). - ^ George D'Oyly & Richard Mant. The Holy Bible (Clarendon press, 1818). - ^ A description of the collection of ancient marbles in the British museum (W. Bulmer and co, 1812). - ^ A description of the collection of ancient terracottas in the British Museum (W. Bulmer and Co., 1810). - ^ George Cooke. Views in London and its vicinity (1826-34) Archived 14 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine External links [edit]Media related to "The Botanical Cabinet" - Conrad Loddiges & Son, London (1817-1833) at Wikimedia Commons - George Cooke online (ArtCyclopedia) - Engravings by George Cooke (Grosvenor Prints) - Engravings by George Cooke (rareoldprints.com)


--- [Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Cooke, George (1781-1834)] ---
Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Cooke, George (1781-1834) COOKE, GEORGE (1781–1834), line engraver, was born in London on 22 Jan. 1781. His father was a native of Frankfort-on-the-Main, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of fourteen George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802) [q. v.]. About the time of the expiration of his indentures was commenced the publication of Brewer's 'Beauties of England and Wales,' and for that work he executed many plates, some of them in conjunction with his elder brother, William Bernard Cooke. He was afterwards engaged upon the plates for Pinkerton's 'Collection of Voyages and Travels,' during the progress of which his brother William projected the first edition of 'The Thames,' to which George Cooke contributed two plates. This work was followed by 'Picturesque Views on the Southern Coast of England,' from drawings made principally by Turner. It was commenced in 1814 and completed in 1826, and for it George Cooke engraved fifteen plates nearly one-third of the whole, and some vignettes. Next appeared an improved edition of 'The Thames,' for which he engraved the 'Launch of the Nelson' and the 'Fair on the Thames,' after Luke Clennell, and the 'Opening of Waterloo Bridge,' after Reinagle. Between 1817 and 1833 he produced, in connection with Messrs. Loddiges of Hackney, a number of plates for the 'Botanical Cabinet,' and about the same time he engraved some of the plates after Turner for Hakewill's 'Picturesque Tour of Italy,' 1820, and Sir Walter Scott's 'Provincial Antiquities and Picturesque Scenery of Scotland,' 1826, in which latter work should be especially noted 'Edinburgh from the Calton Hill.' To these were added plates for Allason's 'Antiquities of Pola,' 1819, Stanhope's' 'Olympia,' 1824, and D'Oyly and Mant's 'Bible,' as well as some of those for 'Views in the South of France, chiefly on the Rhone,' after De Wint. Besides these he engraved a few plates for the publications of the Dilettanti Society, and for the ' Ancient Marbles in the British Museum,' and the 'Ancient Terracottas' in the same collection, and single plates after Turner of a 'View of Gledhow 'for Whitaker's 'Loidis and Elmete,' and 'Wentworth House' for Whitaker's 'History of Richmondshire.' He also engraved the 'Iron Bridge at Sunderland,' from an outline by Blore, for Surtees's 'History of Durham,' and the 'Monument of Sir Francis Bacon' in St. Michael's Church at St. Albans for Clutterbuck's 'History of Hertfordshire.' In 1825 he finished his fine engraving of 'Rotterdam', from Sir A. W. Callcott's picture belonging to the Earl of Essex, and shortly afterwards he issued a prospectus announcing a series of plates from Callcott's works, of which two, 'Antwerp' and 'Dover,' were begun and considerably advanced when vexation at the loss of the proceeds of his 'Rotterdam,'caused by the failure of his agent, led to their abandonment. He then began in 1826 the 'Views in London and its Vicinity,' engraved from drawings by Callcott, Stanfield, Roberts, Prout, Stark, Harding Cotman, and Havell, and this, the favourite object of his life, ended with the twelfth number just before his death. Meanwhile in 1833 he produced 'Views of the Old and New London Bridges,' executed conjointly with his son, Edward William Cooke [q. v.], who also made the drawings. He also produced plates for Nash's 'Views in Paris,' Colonel Batty's 'Views of European Cities,' Baron Taylor's 'Spain,' Rhodes's 'Peak Scenery' and 'Yorkshire Scenery,' several for Stark's 'Scenery of the Rivers of Norfolk,' and one of 'Southampton,' after Copley Fielding, for the 'Gallery of the Society of Painters in Water Colours.' Cooke was one of the original members of the Society of Associated Engravers, who joined together for the purpose of engraving the pictures in the National Gallery, and two plates from his hand were in a forward state at the time of his death. He likewise attempted engraving in mezzotint, and in that style executed a plate of 'Arundel Castle,' after Turner; but it was not a suc cess, and was never published. He died of brain fever 27 Feb. 1834 at Barnes, where he was buried. [Gent. Mag. 1834, i. 658-61; Athenæum, 8 March 1834; Redgrave's Dict. of Artists of the English School, 1878.]


--- [George Cooke (engraver) | Detailed Pedia] ---
No content


--- [George Cooke (engraver) explained] ---
No content


--- [George Cooke (engraver) - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia] ---
Name George Cooke Role Engraver | Died February 27, 1834 Children Edward William Cooke | | Similar People Edward William Cooke, Anne Bacon, Francis Bacon | George Cooke (22 January 1781 – 27 February 1834), was an English line engraver. Life and work Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of fourteen, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother, William Bernard Cooke. Afterwards, he produced engravings for Pinkerton's 16-volume "Collection of Voyages and Travels", during which his brother William made plans for the first edition of "The Thames", to which George Cooke contributed two plates. This work was followed by "Picturesque Views on the Southern Coast of England", from drawings made principally by Turner. It was commenced in 1814 and completed in 1826, and George Cooke engraved fifteen plates, nearly one-third of the total, and some vignettes. Next appeared an improved edition of The Thames, for which he engraved the 'Launch of the Nelson' and the 'Fair on the Thames,' after Luke Clennell, and the 'Opening of Waterloo Bridge,' after Philip Reinagle. Between 1817 and 1833 he produced, in connection with Loddiges of Hackney, London a number of plates for the "Botanical Cabinet",' and about the same time he engraved some of the plates, after Turner, for Hakewill's "Picturesque Tour of Italy", 1820, and Sir Walter Scott's "Provincial Antiquities and Picturesque Scenery of Scotland", 1826, in which latter work should be especially noted "Edinburgh from the Calton Hill". To these were added plates for Thomas Allason's "Antiquities of Pola", 1819, John Spencer-Stanhope's "Olympia", (pub. Rodwell and Martin, 1824), and D'Oyly and Mant's "Bible", as well as some of those for John Hughes' "Views in the South of France, chiefly on the Rhone", after Peter De Wint. Besides these he engraved a few plates for the publications of the Dilettanti Society, and for the "Ancient Marbles in the British Museum", and the "Ancient Terracottas" in the same collection, and single plates after Turner of a "View of Gledhow" for Whitaker's "Loidis and Elmete", and "Wentworth House" for Thomas Dunham Whitaker's "History of Richmondshire". He also engraved the "Iron Bridge at Sunderland", from an outline by Edward Blore; for Surtees's "History of Durham"; and the "Monument of Sir Francis Bacon" in St Michael's Church, St Albans, for Robert Clutterbuck's "History of Hertfordshire". In 1825, he finished his fine engraving of "Rotterdam", from Augustus Wall Callcott's picture belonging to the Earl of Essex, and shortly afterwards issued a prospectus announcing a series of plates from Callcott's works, of which two, "Antwerp" and "Dover", were begun and considerably advanced when vexation at the loss of the proceeds of his 'Rotterdam,'caused by the failure of his agent, led to their abandonment. He then began, in 1826, the "Views in London and its Vicinity", engraved from drawings by Callcott, Stanfield, Roberts, Prout, Stark, Harding, Cotman, and Havell, ending with the twelfth issue just before his death. In 1833, he produced "Views of the Old and New London Bridges", executed conjointly with his son, Edward William Cooke, who also made the drawings. He also produced plates for Frederick Nash's "Views in Paris",' Colonel Batty's "Views of European Cities", Baron Taylor's "Spain" (pub. Robert Jennings), Rhodes's "Peak Scenery" and "Yorkshire Scenery", several for Stark's "Scenery of the Rivers of Norfolk", and one of "Southampton", after Copley Fielding, for the "Gallery of the Society of Painters in Water Colours". Cooke was one of the original members of the "Society of Associated Engravers", who joined together for the purpose of engraving the pictures in the National Gallery, and two of his plates were in preparation at the time of his death. He likewise attempted engraving in mezzotint, and in that style executed a plate of 'Arundel Castle,' after Turner; but it was not a success, and was never published. Cooke died of "brain fever" on 27 February 1834 at Barnes, where he was buried.
