=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[5 Weird Things You Didn't Know About John Lennon - Thought.is]
After numerous near misses, he totaled his Aston-Martin in 1969 on a trip to Scotland with his wife, Yoko Ono; his son, Julian; and Kyoko, Ono's daughter. Lennon needed 17 stitches after the accident.
URL: https://thought.is/5-weird-things-you-didnt-know-about-john-lennon/

[1 July 1969: John Lennon crashes his car in Scotland | The ...]
Mar 3, 2023 · While holidaying in Scotland with Yoko Ono, her daughter Kyoko and his son Julian, John Lennon crashed his white British Leyland Austin Maxi car near Durness in the Highlands. Lennon was a notoriously bad driver who had rarely been behind the wheel since passing his test in 1965. He was poor at navigating roads and...
URL: https://www.beatlesbible.com/1969/07/01/john-lennon-crashes-his-car-in-scotland/

[How the North Coast 500 led a Beatle to near-fatal car crash]
Mar 25, 2019 · When they eventually emerged, Lennon was sporting 17 stitches in a nasty wound across his chin, and his avant-garde artist wife and her daughter were nursing facial injuries.
URL: https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17525048.north-coast-500-led-beatle-near-fatal-car-crash/

[23 Facts You May Not Know About John Lennon - Vintage Everyday]
He finally gave up driving after he totaled his Aston-Martin in 1969 on a trip to Scotland with his wife, Yoko Ono, his son, Julian, and Kyoko, Ono's daughter. Lennon needed 17 stitches after the accident. He and Yoko mounted the wrecked car on a pillar at their home in England. He always used a chauffeur or driver after this incident.
URL: https://www.vintag.es/2015/10/23-facts-you-may-not-know-about-john.html

[Disturbing Details Found In John Lennon's Autopsy Report]
Jun 16, 2022 · Just hours before the shooting, John Lennon was at a recording studio where he was working on a song with his wife, Yoko Ono. In the days leading up to his death, Lennon sat down for several interviews where he talked about his career with The Beatles, the music he was listening to, and the recent release of the album he did with Ono, as reported by Mental Floss. One of the interviews was with ...
URL: https://www.grunge.com/645408/disturbing-details-found-in-john-lennons-autopsy-report/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [5 Weird Things You Didn't Know About John Lennon - Thought.is] ---
5 Weird Things You Didn’t Know About John Lennon 1. He was incapable of driving a car. John, the last of the four Beatles to learn to drive, got his driver’s license in 1965 at the age of 24. Almost immediately, various car dealerships in London parked an array of luxury vehicles outside his home, hoping to make a sale. He chose one and the race, so to speak, was on. After numerous near misses, he totaled his Aston-Martin in 1969 on a trip to Scotland with his wife, Yoko Ono; his son, Julian; and Kyoko, Ono’s daughter. Lennon needed 17 stitches after the accident. He and Yoko mounted the wrecked car on a pillar at their home in England. After that, he kept a chauffeur on call 24 hours a day. 2. He thought he was Jesus. Early in the Beatles’ career, Lennon made a few off-hand remarks about Jesus and the future of Christianity — remember, he was just a rhythm guitar player in a band — that nearly wrecked the group’s popularity. It happened like this, as I describe it in Imagine: The Story of a Song: He told a reporter for the London Evening Standard, ‘Christianity will go. It will vanish and shrink … We’re more popular than Jesus now — I don’t know which will go first, rock and roll or Christianity.’ Five months later, when the remark was reprinted in the United States, Beatle-worship turned to Beatle hatred among religious conservatives. Churches held bonfires of their records. The Ku Klux Klan, weirdly taking the moral high ground, nailed a Beatles’ album to a wooden cross. The protest spread to other countries including Mexico, South Africa and Spain. Some radio stations banned their records. The controversy was so serious, erupting as it did on the eve of a Beatles’ tour in the United States that the band’s manager Brian Epstein considered cancelling it. Lennon apologized. Yet, Jesus was a figure of endless fascination and power to him. So much so that one night a few years later, after a few joints and a bit of LSD, Lennon informed a friend, “I think I’m Jesus Christ.” His mate replied, “You what?” The next morning, Lennon called for an emergency board meeting of Apple, the Beatles recording company. The other three band members attended, including Neil Aspinall, Apple’s managing director, and Derek Taylor, their press officer. “Right,” said John, “I’ve something very important to tell you all. I am…Jesus Christ. I have come back again. This is my thing.” No one could think of what to reply to that. Someone suggested they adjourn for lunch instead. In the restaurant over lunch a gentleman came up to John and said: “Really nice to meet you, how are you?” “Actually,” said John, “I’m Jesus Christ.” “Oh, really?” said the man. “Well, I liked your last record.” Lennon pushed for adding Jesus Christ and Adolf Hitler to the album cover of Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, but was outvoted. However on the iconic Abbey Road cover, that’s Lennon in the lead crossing the street, doing his impression of Jesus Christ in a white suit. 3. Getting attention was the most important thing to Lennon. His nonconformity was a bid for it. Lennon struck a pose throughout his short life as a nonconformist. But actually, he went with every major cultural fad that come along. In the late 1950s when he first started playing in bands, it was the Teddy Boy look — leather jacket, jeans, pompadour — sort of a cross between Brando and James Dean — that was the rage in England, so he went with it. Next came a suit and tie — the look that Brian Epstein insisted for all the groups he was managing, including the Beatles. After the Summer of Love in 1967, Lennon appeared in granny glasses and an off-the-rack look from Sonny and Cher’s closet. When the anti-Vietnam war movement reached a peak, he appeared onstage and on television in an Army shirt that he thought was used in Vietnam (actually, it was part of the uniform wore by US soldiers in Korea). His relentless media-grabbing events with Yoko Ono in the early ‘70s now seem to be such an obvious plea for attention that even at the time it was hard to miss the message, “Look at me.” Nor was he unaware of how badly he wanted to be noticed, either. I always was a rebel… but on the other hand, I wanted to be loved and accepted by all facets of society and not be this loud-mouthed lunatic, poet, musician. But I cannot be what I’m not. 4. He liked the idea of being a working class hero, but didn’t exactly have the street cred. Although Liverpool where Lennon grew up was largely working class and down-at-the-heels after World War II, John lived with his aunt in an enviably middle-class home. While Ringo went to his first job slicing bread in a factory and hoped to be a hair-dresser someday, John was in art school. As the Beatles grew to become some of the wealthiest young men in Britain, John bought houses left and right, even a couple he claimed never to have visited. While lying on his king-sized bed in a mansion, he thought of the lyrics, “He’s a real nowhere man/Sitting in his nowhere land” about a character lacking understanding about what mattered in life. In 1967, he bought a tiny uninhabited island, Dornish, off the coast of Ireland. When an old Liverpool friend saw the wealth he’d accumulated in New York and teased him with the lyrics to Imagine, “remember ‘no possessions’, John, ‘it’s easy if you try’”, the former Beatle’s reply was characteristically, jokingly self-mocking: “It was only a bloody song.” At his death, Lennon’s estimated net worth was $800 million. 5. Not everyone thought his antics were funny. One night, Lennon went to the Troubadour in New York City to hear Ann Peebles perform one of his favorite songs, “I Can’t Stand the Rain,” which was heading up the charts in 1973. Lennon got up at one point and went into the men’s room. There he found an unused Kotex on a shelf. He had been drinking and slapped it on his head, perhaps thinking it was a feminist statement of some kind. There were about 11 people in his party, but he didn’t leave the waitress a tip when it was time to leave. She scowled at him. “Do you know who I am?” he said, self-importantly. “Yes,” she said. “You’re some asshole with a Kotex on your head.”


--- [1 July 1969: John Lennon crashes his car in Scotland | The ...] ---
While holidaying in Scotland with Yoko Ono, her daughter Kyoko and his son Julian, John Lennon crashed his white British Leyland Austin Maxi car near Durness in the Highlands. Lennon was a notoriously bad driver who had rarely been behind the wheel since passing his test in 1965. He was poor at navigating roads and often failed to notice other traffic. The roads were narrow, the weather was poor, and Lennon panicked after spotting a foreign tourist driving towards him. Lennon lost control of his Austin Maxi, driving it into a roadside ditch. He, Ono and Kyoko sustained cuts to the face and Ono’s back was injured. They were taken to Golspie’s Lawson Memorial Hospital where Lennon was given 17 facial stitches, Ono 14 in her forehead, and Kyoko four. Julian Lennon was treated for shock but was otherwise unhurt. He was taken to stay with Lennon’s Aunt Mater in Durness, around 50 miles away, before his mother Cynthia took him back to London the following day. When she arrived at the hospital to demand an explanation from Lennon he refused to see her. Lennon remained in hospital for five days. He later told reporters, “If you’re going to have a car crash, try to arrange for it to happen in the Highlands. The hospital there was just great.” The crashed Austin Maxi was later transported to the couple’s Tittenhurst Park estate where it was sited in the gardens. Although Lennon was never intending to attend, 1 July was the first official day of recording for what became the Abbey Road album. The crash further delayed his return to London, and after being discharged from hospital he spent three days at home before finally rejoining The Beatles on 9 July. Yoko Ono suffered worse injuries in the crash than Lennon, and was pregnant at the time. Keen to keep a close eye on her wellbeing, he arranged for Harrods to deliver a double bed to the studio, and had a microphone suspended above it for her to add her thoughts during the sessions that followed.


--- [How the North Coast 500 led a Beatle to near-fatal car crash] ---
The road was certainly long and winding and in an Austin Maxi in 1969, the 500 miles between Liverpool and Durness in Sutherland would have challenged the most experienced motorist. Add to the mix two possibly fractious young children in the back seat, a frosty reception from relatives less than thrilled by the new wife and John Lennon’s notoriously poor eyesight, and it really was an accident waiting to happen. Today the North Coast 500 is arguably Scotland’s most popular tourist trail, luring visitors from across the world in cars, bikes and campervans to remote roads which cling to the coastline and stunning scenery. Part of its charm are the single track stretches, the hidden dips that give way to breathtaking views, its twists, turns and dramatic weather that can change in the blink of an eye. But while they may be quaint, they can challenge even the best driver, never mind one with few motoring skills and poor eyesight. Fifty years ago this July, one of the world’s most famous men, his new Japanese wife and their two children from previous relationships set out to explore at least part of what would become that famous coastal route. And, bizarrely, the Lennon family’s NC500 jaunt would almost change the course of music history and leave the Beatle, pregnant Yoko Ono and her daughter in hospital for nearly a week. “John Lennon was a dreadful driver,” says lifelong Beatles fan Ken McNab, who has just written a book that reflects on events of 1969, the year the Beatles finally unravelled and cut their final albums together. “He was horrendously shortsighted. He had passed his driving test in 1965 but never had to drive a car. He was a Beatle, and there was always some flunky on hand to drive for him. “He decided to go from Liverpool to Durness which, even by today’s standards isn’t an easy journey.” Lennon harboured fond memories of the remote north-west corner of Sutherland – closer to Oslo than it is to Liverpool – after spending summer holidays amid rolling hills and dramatic coastal scenery with close family in Durness, 120 miles north of Inverness. Perhaps he wanted to recreate those carefree childhood days with his new family, or just to escape the glaring spotlight of life in The Beatles and the controversy that met the couple’s anti-Vietnam “bed-in” protests. Whatever the motivation, Lennon hit the road – as it turned out, quite literally. Before long the Austin Maxi would be lying in a Highland ditch, Lennon’s chin gashed wide open, his wife dazed from a head injury and two startled children requiring hospital treatment. READ MORE: How does North East 250 compare to North Coast 500? The accident, on one of those picturesque single track roads, would result in possibly one of the strangest hospital admissions Scotland has ever seen, with the Lennons – fresh from a two-week long Amsterdam bed-in for peace – taking over the tiny Lawson Memorial Hospital in Golspie. When they eventually emerged, Lennon was sporting 17 stitches in a nasty wound across his chin, and his avant-garde artist wife and her daughter were nursing facial injuries. It rounded off a grim summer for the Lennon clan. His marriage to Yoko Ono in March 1969 had caused upset among fans and family. No doubt the road trip with his son Julian, then six, and Ono’s daughter Kyoko, five, seemed a good idea at the time. “He was close to his cousin Stan Parkes, whose mother he called Aunt Mater,” explains Mr McNab, whose book, And in the End: The Last Days of the Beatles, has just been published. “The family had a croft in Durness. The open space and fresh air were quite different from the heavy industry and pollution of Liverpool.” The croft overlooked Sango Bay, where the white sands are edged by dramatic, rocky cliffs and blue sea. As a child, Lennon had spent hours playing there with his cousin, Stan, exploring Smoo Cave with its impressive waterfalls or just playing in the wide open spaces. It could have been the perfect antidote to the pressures of summer 1969. “His marriage to Cynthia had ended and he wanted to reconnect with his son, to mend fences. But all his family knew of Yoko was that she was the very antithesis of his first wife, Cynthia, who was a home-spun Liverpool girl,” adds Mr McNab. The family headed first to Wales and Liverpool in a Mini, before upgrading to the Austin Maxi to head north to visit his aunt and cousin at their Durness croft. READ MORE: 6 incredible highlights of the North Coast 500 to visit this summer “He decided to head off in the car to do a quick tour from Loch Eriboll to Tongue,” adds Mr McNab. “Stan later spoke of telling him to remember the golden rule of driving on a single track road – to be prepared to give way to oncoming vehicles. “Outside of Tongue on a single track road, and they are met by a car coming towards them. John panics and drives the Austin Maxi off the road and into a ditch.” The family was rushed to Golspie Lawson Memorial Hospital for treatment, while the world’s press dug out maps and tried to figure out how to reach the far-flung corner of Scotland. “What’s strange is the time the family spent in hospital,” adds Mr McNab. “There’s a sense of intrigue about why, if their injuries were quite minor as they seemed to be, did they spend almost a week there?” Perhaps the Lennons were simply making the most of the peace and anonymity. Ono, after all, was pregnant and had already suffered one miscarriage; indeed, by October, the pregnancy would also end in loss. Another theory is that the couple was taking advantage of the health care to wean themselves off the drugs that had increasingly encroached on their lives. Perhaps their recuperation was a chance to go “cold turkey”. Eventually they emerged, walking wounded, and within days were back in the global spotlight as the Beatles gathered to record their final album, Abbey Road. These days back in Durness, a memorial garden pays tribute to the area’s adopted son. “He loved Scotland, and he particularly loved Durness,” said Mr McNab.


--- [23 Facts You May Not Know About John Lennon - Vintage Everyday] ---
John Lennon was the leader and founding member of the Beatles. Whether as a singer, composer, musician, writer, or actor, John was a true original. Not only was he a great artist, but he was a truly fascinating man. To celebrate what would have been the late Beatle's 75th birthday, let’s take a look at a few facts you might not have known about one of Rock's most unforgettable icons: 1. He was a choir boy and a boy scout Yes, John Lennon, the great rock ‘n roll rebel and iconoclast, started his singing career as a choir boy at St. Peter’s church and was a member of the 3rd Allerton Boy Scout troop. 2. Elvis Presley inspired his first band Elvis Presley's instant notoriety inspired 16 year old Lennon to create a band called the Quarry Men (named after his school). Lennon soon met Paul McCartney at a church event on July 6th, 1957. McCartney joined the Quarry Men then a year later introduced Lennon to George Harrison, which started the journey towards The Beatles. 3. He was the last Beatle to learn how to drive John got his driver’s license at the age of 24 (Feb. 15, 1965). This late attempt at driving seems to be for good reason- he was a terrible driver. He finally gave up driving after he totaled his Aston-Martin in 1969 on a trip to Scotland with his wife, Yoko Ono, his son, Julian, and Kyoko, Ono’s daughter. Lennon needed 17 stitches after the accident. He and Yoko mounted the wrecked car on a pillar at their home in England. He always used a chauffeur or driver after this incident. 4. He was the only Beatle who didn’t become a full-time vegetarian George Harrison was the first Beatle vegetarian; according to most sources, he became an official vegetarian in 1965. Paul McCartney joined the “veggie” ranks a few years later. Ringo became a vegetarian not so much for spiritual reasons, like Paul and George, but because of health problems. John had toyed with vegetarianism in the sixties, but he always ended up eating meat, one way or another. 5. He was featured on the first Rolling Stone magazine cover It's an incredible honor for any musician to be featured on the cover of Rolling Stone, but John Lennon was the first person ever to be featured on the cover! Back on November 9th, 1967, he was the cover story. 6. Two of his true loves were caffeine and breakfast Lennon publicly struggled with his weight after a reporter called him, "the fat Beatle" back in 1965, but that didn't curb his love for breakfast. Secretary/lover, May Pang said that Lennon loved cooking and eating a full english breakfast (complete with black pudding). He also had a taste for junk food ("Walls and Bridges was made on Whoppers and Pizza," he reportedly admitted). His other true love was caffeine; he was constantly consuming coffee and black tea. 7. He loved the ocean Lennon was raised in a port town, Liverpool, so it's no surprise that he liked the ocean. But in reality, the man loved the ocean. He wrote about it in many songs (You Are Here, Beautiful Boy and more). He even used it as a means of meditation and relaxation. He chartered a sailboat ride from NYC to Bermuda to record demos for Double Fantasy and took that time with the ocean to quit smoking. 8. One of his favorite purchases was his Gorilla Suit In an interview with good friend and reporter, Maureen Cleave, Lennon admitted that along with a huge altar crucifix, a pair of crutches, and an enormous Bible he bought in Chester, one of his favorite possessions was his Gorilla Suit. "I thought I might need a gorilla suit," he said; he seemed sad about it. "I've only worn it twice. I thought I might pop it on in the summer and drive round in the Ferrari. We were all going to get them and drive around in them but I was the only one who did. I've been thinking about it and if I didn't wear the head it would make an amazing fur coat-with legs, you see. I would like a fur coat but I've never run into any." 9. John Lennon once almost beat a man to death This one takes a bit of explaining. There had long been rumors that Lennon was gay and one night the rumors lead to things getting far out of hand. DJ Bob Wooler was a close friend to the band, having presented them on stage over 300 times. It all happened on June 18, 1963, Paul's 21st birthday. Wooler had been joking around with John and said (with heavy gay intimations): “Come on John, what really happened with you and Brian (Epstein)? Everybody knows anyway, so tell us.” John, in a drunken rage, proceeded to beat the crap out of a shocked Bob Wooler, actually kicking him in the ribs again and again, as he lay on the ground in a bloody heap. Lennon himself said: “I realized I was actually going to kill him… I just saw it like a screen. If I hit him once more, that’s really going to be it. I really got shocked and for the first time thought: ‘I can kill this guy.’” Wooler was rushed to the hospital and given treatment for a myriad of injuries, including broken ribs. 10. He hated his own voice Incredibly, one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, John Lennon hated his own voice and loved to double-track his records. He would often ask the Beatles producer, George Martin, to cover the sound of his voice: “Can’t you smother it with tomato ketchup or something?” 11. He was dissatisfied with all the Beatles’ records Dining with his former producer, George Martin, one night years after the band had split up, John revealed to Martin that he’d like to re-record every Beatles song. Completely amazed, Martin asked him, “Even ‘Strawberry Fields’?” His response, “Especially ‘Strawberry Fields'”. 12. He loved to play Monopoly During his Beatle days, John was a devout Monopoly player. He had his own Monopoly set he’d bring with him and often played in his hotel room or on planes. He was crazy about the properties “Boardwalk” and “Park Place”. He reportedly didn’t generally care too much if he lost the game, as long as he had “Boardwalk” and “Park Place” in his possession. 13. He sometimes slept in a coffin According to Allan Williams, an early manager for the Beatles, John liked to sleep in an old coffin. Williams had the old coffin on the premises of his coffee bar “The Jacaranda”. As a gag, John would frequently nap in it. 14. He once saw a UFO According to the Beatle himself, he saw a UFO from his terrace on 53rd Street in Manhattan! It was August 23rd, 1974, and he wandered out stark naked to see a UFO clear as day hovering above. He even summoned his secretary May Pang who claims to have seen it, too. There were a number of calls to the police that day from others in the neighborhood with similar sightings. 15. The best lyric Lennon ever wrote A friend once asked John the best lyric he ever wrote. “That’s easy”, replied Lennon, “All you need is love”. 16. John was originally supposed to sing lead on the Beatles’ first record Love Me Do (1962) John sang lead on a great majority of the early Beatle records, but Paul took the lead on their very first record. The lead was originally supposed to be John’s, but because John had to play the harmonica, it was instead given to Paul. 17. The last time he saw Paul was April 24, 1976 Paul was visiting him at John’s New York apartment. They were watching “Saturday Night Live” together when producer Lorne Michaels, as a gag, offered the Beatles $3,000 to come on the show. John and Paul almost took a cab to the show, but finally decided against it. (It would have been one of the great moments in television history. 18. Bob Dylan introduced Lennon to marijuana The Beatles met Bob Dylan during the end of their U.S. tour on August 28th, 1964. The artists were introduced by their mutual friend, writer Al Aronowitz, and they spent time together in the Beatles’ hotel room. Many believe Dylan turned The Beatles on to marijuana for the first time, which heavily influenced the band in both their image and songwriting. 19. Lennon and Bowie wrote Fame together John Lennon and David Bowie had a mutual hatred for fame and all it entailed. This shared disdain, plus an intense jam session, would evolve into one of Bowie's most famous songs. Bowie had invited Lennon over to screw around with some music and after many conversations discussing the stresses of fame they wrote and recorded the song. Lennon ended up playing rhythm guitar on the track and you can even hear him on the background vocals. 20. His last concert performance was during Elton John's set Back in 1974, Elton John bet Lennon that if Whatever Gets You Through the Night (a song they had collaborated on) hit #1 on the billboard charts, Lennon would play it with him at Madison Square Garden. Well, it hit #1 and Lennon was a man of his word. And they didn't just play Whatever Gets You Through the Night but also Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds and I Saw Her Standing There. It would be John's last major concert appearance. 21. He loved the B52's Lennon heard Rock Lobster by the B-52's in 1979 while in a disco in Bermuda. He instantly recognized Cindy Wilson's scream at the end of the song as an homage to Yoko Ono. After that moment, he and Yoko listened to the B-52's album again and again while working on their Double Fantasy album. Right before his death, Lennon had said that The B-52s’ debut album was his favorite album of all time. 22. The last photograph of John Lennon In this last photo of John Lennon while he was alive, he was signing an album to the person who was to assassinate him a few hours later. John obligingly signed a copy of his latest album Double Fantasy on the morning of his death for his killer. Later that same day, John returned from the recording studio and was gunned down by Mark David Chapman. Morbidly, a photographer later sneaked into the morgue containing John’s body and snapped a photo of it before it was cremated. John’s body was cremated the day after his assassination. Yoko Ono has never revealed the whereabouts of the ashes or what she did with them. 23. His final resting place remains unknown Lennon was cremated after his tragic murder on December 8, 1980. Fans have theorized that his ashes were spread at Strawberry Fields, which is a section of Central Park that Lennon often visited and was posthumously named for his famous Beatles song. However, this has never been confirmed nor denied by Ono, so the location of his ashes is still unknown. 1. He was a choir boy and a boy scout Yes, John Lennon, the great rock ‘n roll rebel and iconoclast, started his singing career as a choir boy at St. Peter’s church and was a member of the 3rd Allerton Boy Scout troop. | John Lennon as a baby | 2. Elvis Presley inspired his first band Elvis Presley's instant notoriety inspired 16 year old Lennon to create a band called the Quarry Men (named after his school). Lennon soon met Paul McCartney at a church event on July 6th, 1957. McCartney joined the Quarry Men then a year later introduced Lennon to George Harrison, which started the journey towards The Beatles. | The Quarrymen performing in Rosebery Street, Liverpool on 22 June 1957. (Left to right: Hanton, Griffiths, Lennon, Garry, Shotton, and Davis) | 3. He was the last Beatle to learn how to drive John got his driver’s license at the age of 24 (Feb. 15, 1965). This late attempt at driving seems to be for good reason- he was a terrible driver. He finally gave up driving after he totaled his Aston-Martin in 1969 on a trip to Scotland with his wife, Yoko Ono, his son, Julian, and Kyoko, Ono’s daughter. Lennon needed 17 stitches after the accident. He and Yoko mounted the wrecked car on a pillar at their home in England. He always used a chauffeur or driver after this incident. | The Beatles congratulate John Lennon on passing his driving test in Weybridge, Surrey, 1965. | 4. He was the only Beatle who didn’t become a full-time vegetarian George Harrison was the first Beatle vegetarian; according to most sources, he became an official vegetarian in 1965. Paul McCartney joined the “veggie” ranks a few years later. Ringo became a vegetarian not so much for spiritual reasons, like Paul and George, but because of health problems. John had toyed with vegetarianism in the sixties, but he always ended up eating meat, one way or another. | John Lennon, Paul McCartney and George Harrison sharing the breakfast experience. | 5. He was featured on the first Rolling Stone magazine cover It's an incredible honor for any musician to be featured on the cover of Rolling Stone, but John Lennon was the first person ever to be featured on the cover! Back on November 9th, 1967, he was the cover story. | The first issue of Rolling Stone was published in San Francisco. The cover featured a photo of John Lennon dressed army fatigues for his then recent film How I Won the War. | 6. Two of his true loves were caffeine and breakfast Lennon publicly struggled with his weight after a reporter called him, "the fat Beatle" back in 1965, but that didn't curb his love for breakfast. Secretary/lover, May Pang said that Lennon loved cooking and eating a full english breakfast (complete with black pudding). He also had a taste for junk food ("Walls and Bridges was made on Whoppers and Pizza," he reportedly admitted). His other true love was caffeine; he was constantly consuming coffee and black tea. | John Lennon and his wife, Yoko Ono share a cake at the Apple offices in London, 1969. | 7. He loved the ocean Lennon was raised in a port town, Liverpool, so it's no surprise that he liked the ocean. But in reality, the man loved the ocean. He wrote about it in many songs (You Are Here, Beautiful Boy and more). He even used it as a means of meditation and relaxation. He chartered a sailboat ride from NYC to Bermuda to record demos for Double Fantasy and took that time with the ocean to quit smoking. | Tyler Coneys, left, was a member of the crew on the Megan Jaye, the 43-foot sloop on which John Lennon sailed to Bermuda in 1980. | 8. One of his favorite purchases was his Gorilla Suit In an interview with good friend and reporter, Maureen Cleave, Lennon admitted that along with a huge altar crucifix, a pair of crutches, and an enormous Bible he bought in Chester, one of his favorite possessions was his Gorilla Suit. "I thought I might need a gorilla suit," he said; he seemed sad about it. "I've only worn it twice. I thought I might pop it on in the summer and drive round in the Ferrari. We were all going to get them and drive around in them but I was the only one who did. I've been thinking about it and if I didn't wear the head it would make an amazing fur coat-with legs, you see. I would like a fur coat but I've never run into any." | Reporter Maureen Cleave, a good friend of John Lennon's, wrote a personality article about him that would be published in the March 4th 1966 edition of the London Evening Standard. | 9. John Lennon once almost beat a man to death This one takes a bit of explaining. There had long been rumors that Lennon was gay and one night the rumors lead to things getting far out of hand. DJ Bob Wooler was a close friend to the band, having presented them on stage over 300 times. It all happened on June 18, 1963, Paul's 21st birthday. Wooler had been joking around with John and said (with heavy gay intimations): “Come on John, what really happened with you and Brian (Epstein)? Everybody knows anyway, so tell us.” John, in a drunken rage, proceeded to beat the crap out of a shocked Bob Wooler, actually kicking him in the ribs again and again, as he lay on the ground in a bloody heap. Lennon himself said: “I realized I was actually going to kill him… I just saw it like a screen. If I hit him once more, that’s really going to be it. I really got shocked and for the first time thought: ‘I can kill this guy.’” Wooler was rushed to the hospital and given treatment for a myriad of injuries, including broken ribs. | Paul McCartney and John Lennon, with Bob Wooler (The Cavern Club's DJ) in the summer of 1961. | 10. He hated his own voice Incredibly, one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, John Lennon hated his own voice and loved to double-track his records. He would often ask the Beatles producer, George Martin, to cover the sound of his voice: “Can’t you smother it with tomato ketchup or something?” | Singing his heart out, Hamburg, 1966. | 11. He was dissatisfied with all the Beatles’ records Dining with his former producer, George Martin, one night years after the band had split up, John revealed to Martin that he’d like to re-record every Beatles song. Completely amazed, Martin asked him, “Even ‘Strawberry Fields’?” His response, “Especially ‘Strawberry Fields'”. | John Lennon is seen with George Martin, the band's producer often dubbed the fifth Beatle, who first signed the Beatles to his Parlophone label when they were unknown. | 12. He loved to play Monopoly During his Beatle days, John was a devout Monopoly player. He had his own Monopoly set he’d bring with him and often played in his hotel room or on planes. He was crazy about the properties “Boardwalk” and “Park Place”. He reportedly didn’t generally care too much if he lost the game, as long as he had “Boardwalk” and “Park Place” in his possession. | Beatles monopoly | 13. He sometimes slept in a coffin According to Allan Williams, an early manager for the Beatles, John liked to sleep in an old coffin. Williams had the old coffin on the premises of his coffee bar “The Jacaranda”. As a gag, John would frequently nap in it. | John Lennon sleeping | 14. He once saw a UFO According to the Beatle himself, he saw a UFO from his terrace on 53rd Street in Manhattan! It was August 23rd, 1974, and he wandered out stark naked to see a UFO clear as day hovering above. He even summoned his secretary May Pang who claims to have seen it, too. There were a number of calls to the police that day from others in the neighborhood with similar sightings. | John Lennon and girlfriend May Pang at the Beacon Theatre for SGT. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band on November 17, 1974 in New York. | 15. The best lyric Lennon ever wrote A friend once asked John the best lyric he ever wrote. “That’s easy”, replied Lennon, “All you need is love”. 16. John was originally supposed to sing lead on the Beatles’ first record Love Me Do (1962) John sang lead on a great majority of the early Beatle records, but Paul took the lead on their very first record. The lead was originally supposed to be John’s, but because John had to play the harmonica, it was instead given to Paul. | The Beatles, EMI Studios, Abbey Road, 4 September 1962. | 17. The last time he saw Paul was April 24, 1976 Paul was visiting him at John’s New York apartment. They were watching “Saturday Night Live” together when producer Lorne Michaels, as a gag, offered the Beatles $3,000 to come on the show. John and Paul almost took a cab to the show, but finally decided against it. (It would have been one of the great moments in television history. | John Lennon and Paul McCartney in 1965. | 18. Bob Dylan introduced Lennon to marijuana The Beatles met Bob Dylan during the end of their U.S. tour on August 28th, 1964. The artists were introduced by their mutual friend, writer Al Aronowitz, and they spent time together in the Beatles’ hotel room. Many believe Dylan turned The Beatles on to marijuana for the first time, which heavily influenced the band in both their image and songwriting. 19. Lennon and Bowie wrote Fame together John Lennon and David Bowie had a mutual hatred for fame and all it entailed. This shared disdain, plus an intense jam session, would evolve into one of Bowie's most famous songs. Bowie had invited Lennon over to screw around with some music and after many conversations discussing the stresses of fame they wrote and recorded the song. Lennon ended up playing rhythm guitar on the track and you can even hear him on the background vocals. | John Lennon and David Bowie, 1975. | 20. His last concert performance was during Elton John's set Back in 1974, Elton John bet Lennon that if Whatever Gets You Through the Night (a song they had collaborated on) hit #1 on the billboard charts, Lennon would play it with him at Madison Square Garden. Well, it hit #1 and Lennon was a man of his word. And they didn't just play Whatever Gets You Through the Night but also Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds and I Saw Her Standing There. It would be John's last major concert appearance. | Elton John and John Lennon at Madison Square Garden, 1974. | 21. He loved the B52's Lennon heard Rock Lobster by the B-52's in 1979 while in a disco in Bermuda. He instantly recognized Cindy Wilson's scream at the end of the song as an homage to Yoko Ono. After that moment, he and Yoko listened to the B-52's album again and again while working on their Double Fantasy album. Right before his death, Lennon had said that The B-52s’ debut album was his favorite album of all time. | The cover art for The B-52's by The B-52's. | 22. The last photograph of John Lennon In this last photo of John Lennon while he was alive, he was signing an album to the person who was to assassinate him a few hours later. John obligingly signed a copy of his latest album Double Fantasy on the morning of his death for his killer. Later that same day, John returned from the recording studio and was gunned down by Mark David Chapman. Morbidly, a photographer later sneaked into the morgue containing John’s body and snapped a photo of it before it was cremated. John’s body was cremated the day after his assassination. Yoko Ono has never revealed the whereabouts of the ashes or what she did with them. | The man who shot John Lennon, Mark David Chapman, appeared in the last photo taken of the musician. He was asking for an autograph. | 23. His final resting place remains unknown Lennon was cremated after his tragic murder on December 8, 1980. Fans have theorized that his ashes were spread at Strawberry Fields, which is a section of Central Park that Lennon often visited and was posthumously named for his famous Beatles song. However, this has never been confirmed nor denied by Ono, so the location of his ashes is still unknown.


--- [Disturbing Details Found In John Lennon's Autopsy Report] ---
Disturbing Details Found In John Lennon's Autopsy Report On the evening of December 8, 1980, John Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono were returning home to The Dakota, their New York apartment, when a man called out to Lennon. Soon after, a few gunshots were heard and Lennon fell down and was covered in blood. The shooter was later identified as 25-year-old Mark David Chapman, who stood by as his target bled out, per Heavy. Earlier that day, Chapman was outside Lennon's building with a copy of the album "Double Fantasy," which he wanted Lennon to autograph. Chapman was a huge Beatles fan and was also deeply religious, but his opinion changed upon hearing his idol refer to his band the Beatles as being "more popular than Jesus." Chapman later revealed that he had been planning to kill Lennon for a few months. He has since been incarcerated and admitted that he committed the crime for "self-glory," according to The Scotsman. "He was very, very, very famous and that's the only reason and I was very, very, very, very much seeking self-glory, very selfish," he said. Lennon was taken to the hospital several minutes after the shooting took place, and doctors attempted to resuscitate him for several minutes. However, he had lost too much blood due to the gunshot wounds he sustained and was pronounced dead soon after (via Biography). He was just 40 years old. Before and after the shooting Just hours before the shooting, John Lennon was at a recording studio where he was working on a song with his wife, Yoko Ono. In the days leading up to his death, Lennon sat down for several interviews where he talked about his career with The Beatles, the music he was listening to, and the recent release of the album he did with Ono, as reported by Mental Floss. One of the interviews was with radio personality Dave Sholin, and during their conversation, Lennon said that he hopes he dies before his wife. "If Yoko died, I wouldn't know how to survive. I couldn't carry on," he stated. He would be dead just hours later (via Smithsonian Magazine). The news of Lennon's death was soon reported by the media. A television producer named Alan Weiss was in the hospital after getting into a motorcycle accident, and it just so happened that it was the same hospital that Lennon was brought to after the shooting. In an interview with Newsday, Weiss said that he overheard police talking about Lennon and afterward witnessed a doctor tell Ono that her husband had died. He then called the information to the news team. Soon, ABC News caught wind of Lennon's death, and "Monday Night Football" was interrupted to report the news. The days that followed consisted of fans mourning the death of a legend. About 100,000 people held a vigil at the spot where Lennon was shot, and 20,000 people gathered in his hometown of Liverpool. John Lennon was shot four times Mark David Chapman fired several shots that night, and four bullets hit John Lennon. Dr. David Halleran was on duty at the hospital and was the surgeon who gave Lennon a cardiac massage, hoping to get his heart beating. The heart itself wasn't hit by the bullets, but the vessels near the organ were damaged. The singer had already lost a lot of blood before even being brought to the hospital (via CNY Central). "We weren't getting a pulse back, we weren't getting blood pressure back, we weren't getting pupil response back. He was very much gone," Dr. Halleran told Inside Edition. He was declared dead at 11:15 p.m. Dr. Elliot Gross was the medical examiner who conducted Lennon's autopsy. Based on his report, two bullets penetrated the shoulder and two bullets went into Lennon's back. Dr. Gross said that he died of shock and massive blood loss, and added that the death was almost immediate. One of the bullets that went into Lennon's back passed through the chest and his left lung before it exited the body. Another bullet also hit the left lung and was lodged in his neck, as reported by the Washington Post. By the time Lennon arrived at the hospital, he had no pulse. Chapman was charged with second-degree murder and was sentenced to 20 years to life after entering a guilty plea. He has been denied parole 11 times as of 2020, per Distractify, and will most likely spend the remainder of his life at the Wende Correctional Facility, a maximum-security prison in New York.
