=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[CharingCrossBridge(Monetseries) - Wikipedia]
CharingCrossBridgeis a series of oil paintings by French artistClaudeMonet. The paintings depict a misty, impressionistCharingCrossBridgein London, England.Monetworked on the series from 1899 to 1905, creating a total of 37 paintings depicting the bridge.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charing_Cross_Bridge_(Monet_series)

[A Monet Painting Owned By Winston Churchill Has Been Restored]
ClaudeMonet's1902 paintingCharing Cross Bridge, which wasgiftedtoWinstonChurchillin 1949, was heavily coated in residue from the former prime minister's cigar smoke.
URL: https://allthatsinteresting.com/monet-charing-cross-bridge-restoration

[Revealed: how a US collector gave Churchill a Monet the Tate wanted]
An unpublished letter to WinstonChurchillwritten in 1949 reveals how an American friend gave him aMonetpainting ofCharing Cross Bridge, which shows the Houses of Parliament in the foggy ...
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2007/11/03/revealed-how-a-us-collector-gave-churchill-a-monet-the-tate-wanted

[Monet's painting, which belonged to Churchill, will be exhibited in ...]
The restored painting of the French painterClaudeMonet"Charing Cross Bridge" will be shown at the Courtauld Gallery exhibition. This work of art was stored in WinstonChurchill'shouse and suffered from plaque caused by cigar smoking for many years.
URL: https://violity.com/en/publication/9629-monet-s-painting-which-belonged-to-churchill-will-be-exhibited-in-london.html

[Monet Makeover: Churchill-Owned Painting Restored]
AfterChurchilldied in 1965, his widow Clementine gave Chartwell and its contents to the National Trust, marking the first timeCharing Cross Bridgewas part of a public collection. But even then, theMonetremained little-known, with it even missing from Daniel Wildenstein's catalogue raisonné published in 1985.
URL: https://rehs.com/eng/2024/09/monet-makeover-churchill-owned-painting-restored/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [CharingCrossBridge(Monetseries) - Wikipedia] ---
Charing Cross Bridge is a series of oil paintings by French artist Claude Monet. The paintings depict a misty, impressionist Charing Cross Bridge in London, England. Monet worked on the series from 1899 to 1905, creating a total of 37 paintings depicting the bridge.
While all of the paintings in the series depict the same bridge, each has unique qualities. For instance, Monet uses different color combinations to portray different atmospheric conditions. In some paintings, Monet includes details such as trains, clock towers, and boats, but omits such features in others.
Today, the Charing Cross Bridge paintings are scattered in museums around the world. These include the Art Institute of Chicago, the Baltimore Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Art Gallery of Ontario and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid.


--- [A Monet Painting Owned By Winston Churchill Has Been Restored] ---
No content


--- [Revealed: how a US collector gave Churchill a Monet the Tate wanted] ---
An unpublished letter to Winston Churchill written in 1949 reveals how an American friend gave him a Monet painting of Charing Cross Bridge, which shows the Houses of Parliament in the foggy background. Churchill’s ownership of the Thames painting is unrecorded in the Monet catalogue raisonné by Wildenstein, which incorrectly gives its current owner as a French private collector (cat. W1540). Charing Cross Bridge of 1902 was a present from Emery Reves, who was Churchill’s literary agent. Writing from Claridge’s Hotel on 23 December 1949, he began by saying: “This is a true story. Knowing that Monet is your favourite painter I have been searching for one of his good paintings for many months.” Reves explained that he had finally tracked down the right picture, of Charing Cross Bridge, which he had bought from its Parisian owner. He had discussed the work with Tate director John Rothenstein, who described it as a masterpiece. Reves recounted their conversation: “I wanted to be sure and asked him: ‘Would you hang it in the Tate Gallery?’ to which he most emphatically answered that he would be more than happy to do so.” Reves then added to Churchill: “Encouraged by the thought that if you do not like it you can always give it to the Tate, I arranged for the painting to be brought over this morning. Please accept it as a very small token of my gratitude for your friendship, which has been for so many years my greatest pride. That this comes between your 75th birthday [30 November] and Christmas is not purely coincidental.” Reves ended his letter (now in the Churchill Archives Centre in Cambridge) with a reference to the Monet scene and Churchill’s political position: “My very best wishes for a happy 1950 during which I hope you will dissipate the fog that shrouds Westminster.” Churchill had lost his position as prime minister in 1945 to Labour leader Clement Attlee, who would soon just hold onto power in the general election of 23 February 1950. Churchill later became prime minister again in 1951. Reves was invited for lunch at Chartwell, Churchill’s country home in Kent, on Boxing Day 1949, presumably to thank him for the Monet. Churchill was then Leader of the Opposition, and this may have made it slightly easier to accept such a valuable gift. Churchill kept the painting, and does not appear to have discussed donating it to the Tate (which still lacks a London Monet). As an amateur artist, Churchill was a great admirer of Monet’s landscapes, once describing how they “float in sparkling air”. Charing Cross Bridge was hung in the drawing room at Chartwell. The house is owned by the National Trust and the contents passed to it after the death of Churchill in 1965. Although the Monet is on public view in the drawing room, it can only be viewed obliquely from behind a rope, and has never been lent to exhibitions. The picture remains relatively unknown, even among Monet scholars. Emery Reves died in 1981, and four years later his widow Wendy donated their own art collection of 1,400 works to the Dallas Museum of Art (the fine Impressionists include a Monet of the Pont Neuf in Paris). Wendy Reves died on 13 March 2007.


--- [Monet's painting, which belonged to Churchill, will be exhibited in ...] ---
The restored painting of the French painter Claude Monet "Charing Cross Bridge" will be shown at the Courtauld Gallery exhibition. This work of art was stored in Winston Churchill's house and suffered from plaque caused by cigar smoking for many years. "Charing Cross Bridge" is one of Monet's most famous works on the theme of London landscapes. The artist began work on it in 1899, but signed and dated it in 1902. And this despite the fact that the landscape was fully completed only in 1923. For almost 40 years, Monet's painting decorated the living room of the British Prime Minister in the Chartwell estate. And since the politician was known for his passion for smoking Cuban cigars, the interior items in his house "suffered" from tobacco smoke. In particular, Monet's painting gradually lost its brightness. The restoration of the painting was entrusted to the conservator of the National Fund, Rebecca Hellen, who returned the work to its original appearance, as close as possible to the way Monet left it in 1923. Unfortunately, a significant part of the yellow shades was muted due to contamination and darkening of the varnish. Before the picture ended up in the estate of the English prime minister, it was owned by the American literary agent Emery Reeves. The latter presented the landscape to Churchill in 1949. The painting "Charing Cross Bridge" will be exhibited as part of the exhibition "Monet and London: Views of the Thames", which will include 21 works of the artist. Source: theartnewspaper.com


--- [Monet Makeover: Churchill-Owned Painting Restored] ---
In June, I wrote about how the Courtauld Gallery will open an exhibition dedicated to Claude Monet’s London paintings. The exhibition will open this Friday, September 27th, but not before gallery and National Trust specialists make some last-minute changes. This includes fully restoring a painting previously caked in decades of cigar smoke from its prior owner, Sir Winston Churchill. Monet had an interesting relationship with London. He first traveled there in 1870, mainly to escape the Franco-Prussian War. The city’s galleries and museums exposed him to the art of J.M.W. Turner and John Constable, influencing how he would execute his later landscapes. Monet later painted in London, creating around a hundred paintings over several visits, mainly showing spots on the River Thames, such as the Houses of Parliament and Waterloo Bridge. Starting September 27th, the Courtauld Gallery will exhibit a collection of twenty-one paintings to recreate the artist’s plans for exhibiting these paintings in London in 1905. One of these works, however, had to undergo substantial cleaning and restoration because of its previous owner, British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill. The painting from Churchill’s collection was mostly completed in 1902, but Monet made small changes here and there over many years before he sold it in 1923. The painting looks southwest down the Thames towards Charing Cross Bridge, with the faintest hint of Big Ben on the right-hand side in the distance. Today, Charing Cross Bridge is used mainly for rail, with two additional pedestrian bridges on either side opening in 2002. Churchill kept the Monet in the drawing room of his country estate in Kent, Chartwell House. He received it for his 75th birthday in 1949 from his friend and literary agent, Emery Reves. In a letter, Reves wishes Churchill a good year, during which he appropriately wishes he “will dissipate the fog that shrouds Westminster.” Churchill was Leader of the Opposition at the time and would live up to Reves’s wishes, winning the 1951 elections and regaining the position of Prime Minister. After Churchill died in 1965, his widow Clementine gave Chartwell and its contents to the National Trust, marking the first time Charing Cross Bridge was part of a public collection. But even then, the Monet remained little-known, with it even missing from Daniel Wildenstein’s catalogue raisonné published in 1985. Over the decades, smoke from fireplaces and the thousands of cigars Churchills smoked each year gradually darkened the painting’s varnish until the subtleties of the color became more difficult to notice. Rebecca Hellen, a conservator for the National Trust, posed for a photo with the mostly-cleaned Monet. The bottom-left corner of the canvas remained uncleaned in the photo to show the differences in color. As one of only two Monet London paintings in British public collections, the Churchill Monet is a particularly consequential loan for the Courtauld Gallery to secure. Monet and London: Views of the Thames will be on display at the Courtauld Gallery from September 27, 2024 to January 19, 2025.
