=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Day, Richard "Dick" - Minnesota Legislative Reference Library]
He lived on the farm until he was six years old. He ran unsuccessfully in the primary election, without the Republican Party's endorsement, for the 1st Congressional District seat in the United States House of Representatives in 2008.
URL: https://www.lrl.mn.gov/legdb/fulldetail?id=10128

[Richard J. Daley]
Richard Joseph Daley (May 15, 1902 – December 20, 1976) was an American politician who served as the mayor of Chicago from 1955
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_J._Daley

[History of the Republican Party (United States) - Wikipedia]
With the election of its first president, Abraham Lincoln, in 1860, the party's success in guiding the Union to victory in the Civil War, and the party's role in the abolition of slavery, the Republican Party largely dominated the national political scene until 1932.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Republican_Party_(United_States)

[Richard Day First Elected Republican Year Crossword ...]
30 results Search for: richard, day, first, elected, republican, year Worksheets Crossword Clear All Sort by: All filters 30 results Sort by: 1
URL: https://www.education.com/resources/worksheets/?game-type=crossword&q=richard+day+first+elected+republican+year

[Nixon reelected in landslide, Nov. 7, 1972 - POLITICO]
Nov 7, 2018 · On this day in 1972, President Richard M. Nixon, riding a strong economy and a wave of popularity, swamped his Democratic challenger, Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota, winning 60.7 percent of ...
URL: https://www.politico.com/story/2018/11/07/this-day-in-politics-november-7-963516


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Day, Richard "Dick" - Minnesota Legislative Reference Library] ---
News Sources The Library maintains newspaper clippings on individual legislators during their terms. Clippings are available from 1973 to the present in a variety of formats: 1973-1999, microfiche available at the Library; 2000-2009, scanned in yearly compilations and digitally available on the legislative network; 2009-present, archived in a searchable database maintained by the Library and available on the legislative network. District News Files 2000 (28) 2001 (28) 2002 (28) 2003 (26) 2004 (26) 2005 (26) 2006 (26) 2007 (26) 2008 (26) 2009 (26) These files are available in the Legislative Reference Library.


--- [Richard J. Daley] ---
Richard Joseph Daley (May 15, 1902 – December 20, 1976) was an American politician who served as the mayor of Chicago from 1955, and the chairman of the Cook County Democratic Party from 1953, until his death. He has been called "the last of the big city bosses" who controlled and mobilized American cities. He was the patriarch of a powerful Chicago political family. His son Richard M. Daley went on to serve as mayor of Chicago, and another son, William M. Daley, served as United States Secretary of Commerce and White House Chief of Staff.
Daley was Chicago's third consecutive mayor from the working-class, heavily Irish American South Side neighborhood of Bridgeport, where he lived his entire life. He is remembered for doing much to save Chicago from the declines that other Rust Belt cities, such as Cleveland, Buffalo, and Detroit, experienced during the same period. He had a strong base of support in Chicago's Irish Catholic community and was treated by national politicians such as Lyndon B. Johnson as a pre-eminent Irish American, with special connections to the Kennedy family. Daley played a major role in the history of the Democratic Party, especially with his support of John F. Kennedy in the presidential election of 1960 and of Hubert Humphrey in the presidential election of 1968. He was the longest-serving mayor in Chicago history until his record was broken by his son Richard M. Daley in 2011. He has been ranked by some historians as among the ten best mayors in American history. A 1994 survey of experts on Chicago politics assessed him as one of the ten best mayors in the city's history (up to that time).
Daley's legacy is complicated by criticisms of machine politics or Chicago-style politics. His response to the Chicago riots that followed the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. and his handling of the notorious 1968 Democratic National Convention held in his city are seen as failures. During his tenure, he also had enemies within the Democratic Party. In addition, many members of Daley's administration were charged with and convicted of corruption, although Daley himself was never charged with any crime.




--- [History of the Republican Party (United States) - Wikipedia] ---
The Republican Party, also known as the Grand Old Party (GOP), is one of the two major political parties in the United States. It is the second-oldest extant political party in the United States after its main political rival, the Democratic Party. In 1854, the Republican Party emerged to combat the expansion of slavery into western territories after the passing of the Kansas–Nebraska Act. The early Republican Party consisted of northern Protestants, factory workers, professionals, businessmen, prosperous farmers, and after the Civil War also of black former slaves. The party had very little support from white Southerners at the time, who predominantly backed the Democratic Party in the Solid South, and from Irish and German Catholics, who made up a major Democratic voting bloc. While both parties adopted pro-business policies in the 19th century, the early GOP was distinguished by its support for the national banking system, the gold standard, railroads, and high tariffs. The party opposed the expansion of slavery before 1861 and led the fight to dismantle the Confederate States of America (1861–1865). While the Republican Party had almost no presence in the Southern United States at its inception, it was very successful in the Northern United States, where by 1858 it had enlisted former Whigs and former Free Soil Democrats to form majorities in nearly every Northern state.
With the election of its first president, Abraham Lincoln, in 1860, the party's success in guiding the Union to victory in the Civil War, and the party's role in the abolition of slavery, the Republican Party largely dominated the national political scene until 1932. In 1912, former Republican president Theodore Roosevelt formed the Progressive Party after being rejected by the GOP and ran unsuccessfully as a third-party presidential candidate calling for social reforms. The GOP lost its congressional majorities during the Great Depression (1929–1940); under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Democrats formed a winning New Deal coalition that was dominant from 1932 through 1964.
After the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Southern strategy, the party's core base shifted with the Southern states becoming more reliably Republican in presidential politics and the Northeastern states becoming more reliably Democratic. White voters increasingly identified with the Republican Party after the 1960s. Following the Supreme Court's 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade, the Republican Party opposed abortion in its party platform and grew its support among evangelicals. The Republican Party won five of the six presidential elections from 1968 to 1988. Two-term President Ronald Reagan, who held office from 1981 to 1989, was a transformative party leader. His conservative policies called for reduced social government spending and regulation, increased military spending, lower taxes, and a strong anti-Soviet Union foreign policy. Reagan's influence upon the party persisted into the 21st century.
In 2016, businessman and media personality Donald Trump became the party's nominee for president, won the presidency, and shifted the party further to the right. Since the 1990s, the party's support has chiefly come from the South, the Great Plains, the Mountain States, and rural areas in the North. It supports free market economics, cultural conservatism, and originalism in constitutional jurisprudence. There have been 19 Republican presidents, the most from any one political party.
Since 1980, Republicans have won seven out of the last twelve presidential elections, winning in the presidential elections of 1980 and 1984 (with Ronald Reagan, 1981–1989), 1988 (with George H. W. Bush, 1989–1993), 2000 and 2004 (with George W. Bush, 2001–2009), and 2016 and 2024 (with Donald Trump, 2017–2021 and since 2025). However, Republicans have lost the popular vote in 2000 and 2016 but won the Electoral College in both elections (with George W. Bush and Donald Trump, respectively). These were two of the four presidential elections in which Republicans lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College, the others being the presidential elections in 1876 and 1888.




--- [Richard Day First Elected Republican Year Crossword ...] ---
SKIP TO CONTENT Worksheet Generator Subjects Grades Worksheets Games Build a Worksheet More Resources Roly Recommends Reading Month Subjects Grades Worksheets Games Build a Worksheet More Resources Roly Recommends Reading Month Filters Search for: richard, day, first, elected, republican, year ✕ Worksheets ✕ Crossword ✕ Subjects Math English Language Arts Science Grade Level Pre-K K 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th Early Childhood Elementary School Middle School Resource Type Worksheets Interactive Worksheets Offline Games Occasion St. Patrick's Day Spring Summer Independence Day Fall Halloween Winter Holidays Martin Luther King Jr. Day Valentine's Day See more Common Core Yes Game Type Mazes Dot to Dot Crossword Fitness & Exercise Memory Games Printable Board Games Puzzles & Sudoku Scavenger Hunt Travel Games Word Puzzles Word Search See More Clear All View 43 results Showing Results for richard day first elected republican year 43 results Search for: richard, day, first, elected, republican, year ✕ Worksheets ✕ Crossword ✕ Clear All Sort by: Relevance Most recent Most popular Alphabetical A-Z Alphabetical Z-A All filters 43 results Sort by: Relevance Most recent Most popular Alphabetical A-Z Alphabetical Z-A Day of the Dead Worksheet Day of the Dead First Grade Celebrate the Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos , with this brightly hued crossword puzzle! Is your first grader up to the challenge? Worksheet Day of the Dead Worksheet Day of the Dead Celebrate the Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos , with this brightly hued crossword puzzle! Is your first grader up to the challenge? First Grade Worksheet St. Patrick's Day History Worksheet St. Patrick's Day History Second Grade Use what you already know about St. Patrick's Day (and learn some new fun facts as well) with this St. Patrick's Day crossword. Worksheet St. Patrick's Day History Worksheet St. Patrick's Day History Use what you already know about St. Patrick's Day (and learn some new fun facts as well) with this St. Patrick's Day crossword. Second Grade Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Second Grade Go green for St. Patrick's Day with this holiday-themed crossword. Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Go green for St. Patrick's Day with this holiday-themed crossword. Second Grade Worksheet Valentine's Day Math Crossword Interactive Worksheet Valentine's Day Math Crossword Sixth Grade Integers and Rational Numbers Practice integer operations with this Valentine’s Day-themed puzzle for middle schoolers! Interactive Worksheet Valentine's Day Math Crossword Interactive Worksheet Valentine's Day Math Crossword Practice integer operations with this Valentine’s Day-themed puzzle for middle schoolers! Sixth Grade Integers and Rational Numbers Interactive Worksheet Day of the Dead Crossword Worksheet Day of the Dead Crossword Second Grade Celebrate the Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos, with a fun crossword puzzle Worksheet Day of the Dead Crossword Worksheet Day of the Dead Crossword Celebrate the Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos, with a fun crossword puzzle Second Grade Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Second Grade Gear up for St. Patrick's Day with this themed crossword. Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Gear up for St. Patrick's Day with this themed crossword. Second Grade Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Second Grade Children will build vocabulary and learn some fun facts about St. Patrick's Day in this lively holiday crossword puzzle. Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Worksheet St. Patrick's Day Crossword Puzzle Children will build vocabulary and learn some fun facts about St. Patrick's Day in this lively holiday crossword puzzle. Second Grade Worksheet Springtime Crossword Worksheet Springtime Crossword First Grade English Language Arts Can you complete this spring-themed crossword puzzle for first and second graders? Worksheet Springtime Crossword Worksheet Springtime Crossword Can you complete this spring-themed crossword puzzle for first and second graders? First Grade English Language Arts Worksheet Pot o' Gold Crossword Worksheet Pot o' Gold Crossword Second Grade This simple, fun Leprechaun crossword puzzle will get younger students in the green for Saint Patrick's Day. Worksheet Pot o' Gold Crossword Worksheet Pot o' Gold Crossword This simple, fun Leprechaun crossword puzzle will get younger students in the green for Saint Patrick's Day. Second Grade Worksheet Valentine Crossword Worksheet Valentine Crossword Second Grade Think you're a Valentine's Day expert? Test your knowledge of candy and roses and heart-shaped cards with this fun crossword. Worksheet Valentine Crossword Worksheet Valentine Crossword Think you're a Valentine's Day expert? Test your knowledge of candy and roses and heart-shaped cards with this fun crossword. Second Grade Worksheet Sunny Summer Crossword Worksheet Sunny Summer Crossword First Grade English Language Arts Beat the heat with this summer-themed crossword puzzle for first and second graders! Worksheet Sunny Summer Crossword Worksheet Sunny Summer Crossword Beat the heat with this summer-themed crossword puzzle for first and second graders! First Grade English Language Arts Worksheet Snowy Weather Crossword Worksheet Snowy Weather Crossword First Grade Vocabulary Keep your first- and second-grade students from getting a brain freeze this season with this cool, winter word puzzle! Worksheet Snowy Weather Crossword Worksheet Snowy Weather Crossword Keep your first- and second-grade students from getting a brain freeze this season with this cool, winter word puzzle! First Grade Vocabulary Worksheet Autumn Air Crossword Worksheet Autumn Air Crossword First Grade English Language Arts Welcome in the crisp autumn breezes with this fall-themed crossword for first and second graders! Worksheet Autumn Air Crossword Worksheet Autumn Air Crossword Welcome in the crisp autumn breezes with this fall-themed crossword for first and second graders! First Grade English Language Arts Worksheet Vowel Consonant E: Bossy E Crossword Worksheet Vowel Consonant E: Bossy E Crossword First Grade Phonics Show off your phonics knowledge with this “bossy e” crossword for first and second graders! Worksheet Vowel Consonant E: Bossy E Crossword Worksheet Vowel Consonant E: Bossy E Crossword Show off your phonics knowledge with this “bossy e” crossword for first and second graders! First Grade Phonics Worksheet Life Science Crossword: Classifications Worksheet Life Science Crossword: Classifications Third Grade Life Science Which comes first, genus or phylum? To complete this life science crossword, kids need to put the 9 levels of biological classification in the correct order. Worksheet Life Science Crossword: Classifications Worksheet Life Science Crossword: Classifications Which comes first, genus or phylum? To complete this life science crossword, kids need to put the 9 levels of biological classification in the correct order. Third Grade Life Science Worksheet Plant Parts Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Plant Parts Crossword Puzzle First Grade Life Science Learning about the functions of plant parts doesn’t have to be puzzling! Review the parts of a plant with this crossword for first and second graders. Worksheet Plant Parts Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Plant Parts Crossword Puzzle Learning about the functions of plant parts doesn’t have to be puzzling! Review the parts of a plant with this crossword for first and second graders. First Grade Life Science Worksheet Autumn Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Autumn Crossword Puzzle Fourth Grade Grammar and Mechanics From foliage to equinox, learners will review their understanding of fall concepts and vocabulary in this 15-word crossword puzzle. Worksheet Autumn Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Autumn Crossword Puzzle From foliage to equinox, learners will review their understanding of fall concepts and vocabulary in this 15-word crossword puzzle. Fourth Grade Grammar and Mechanics Worksheet Leprechaun Crossword Worksheet Leprechaun Crossword First Grade Grammar and Mechanics Enjoy a leprechaun crossword puzzle, to use and learn fun vocabulary! Worksheet Leprechaun Crossword Worksheet Leprechaun Crossword Enjoy a leprechaun crossword puzzle, to use and learn fun vocabulary! First Grade Grammar and Mechanics Worksheet Dia de los Muertos Worksheet Dia de los Muertos Third Grade It's almost Dia de los Muertos! Celebrate this Mexican holiday with a fun and colorful crossword puzzle. Just use the clues to fill in the puzzle. Worksheet Dia de los Muertos Worksheet Dia de los Muertos It's almost Dia de los Muertos! Celebrate this Mexican holiday with a fun and colorful crossword puzzle. Just use the clues to fill in the puzzle. Third Grade Worksheet 4th of July Crossword Worksheet 4th of July Crossword Second Grade Review important American history facts with this fun 4th of July crossword puzzle that's full of trivia. Worksheet 4th of July Crossword Worksheet 4th of July Crossword Review important American history facts with this fun 4th of July crossword puzzle that's full of trivia. Second Grade Worksheet Circle Vocabulary Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Circle Vocabulary Crossword Puzzle Seventh Grade Geometry Show off your circle vocabulary knowledge with this fun geometry-themed crossword puzzle! Worksheet Circle Vocabulary Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Circle Vocabulary Crossword Puzzle Show off your circle vocabulary knowledge with this fun geometry-themed crossword puzzle! Seventh Grade Geometry Worksheet Martin Luther King, Jr. Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Martin Luther King, Jr. Crossword Puzzle Third Grade Children learn about Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life and legacy as they solve a crossword puzzle in this hands-on worksheet. Worksheet Martin Luther King, Jr. Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Martin Luther King, Jr. Crossword Puzzle Children learn about Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life and legacy as they solve a crossword puzzle in this hands-on worksheet. Third Grade Worksheet 1st Grade Vocabulary Crossword Worksheet 1st Grade Vocabulary Crossword First Grade Give your child a challenge in spelling and an introduction to crossword puzzles at the same time! Worksheet 1st Grade Vocabulary Crossword Worksheet 1st Grade Vocabulary Crossword Give your child a challenge in spelling and an introduction to crossword puzzles at the same time! First Grade Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #3 Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #3 Kindergarten Phonics Have fun with phonics as you solve the puzzles in this inviting worksheet! Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #3 Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #3 Have fun with phonics as you solve the puzzles in this inviting worksheet! Kindergarten Phonics Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #1 Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #1 Kindergarten Phonics Find the vowel pairs of words have in common in this charming phonics worksheet! Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #1 Interactive Worksheet Middle Sounds Crosswords #1 Find the vowel pairs of words have in common in this charming phonics worksheet! Kindergarten Phonics Interactive Worksheet Geology Crossword Worksheet Geology Crossword Fourth Grade Earth and Space Science Practice geology vocabulary with this challenging crossword puzzle. Worksheet Geology Crossword Worksheet Geology Crossword Practice geology vocabulary with this challenging crossword puzzle. Fourth Grade Earth and Space Science Worksheet Antonym Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Antonym Crossword Puzzle Second Grade Grammar and Mechanics Try a crossword puzzle where all the answers are opposites of their clues! Worksheet Antonym Crossword Puzzle Worksheet Antonym Crossword Puzzle Try a crossword puzzle where all the answers are opposites of their clues! Second Grade Grammar and Mechanics Worksheet Addition Crossword Puzzle: Sums to 10 Interactive Worksheet Addition Crossword Puzzle: Sums to 10 Kindergarten Addition Practice addition facts within 10 with this high-flying math crossword puzzle! Interactive Worksheet Addition Crossword Puzzle: Sums to 10 Interactive Worksheet Addition Crossword Puzzle: Sums to 10 Practice addition facts within 10 with this high-flying math crossword puzzle! Kindergarten Addition Interactive Worksheet Word Families: -ush and -ash Crossword Worksheet Word Families: -ush and -ash Crossword First Grade Word Families Splash into practice with word families in this fun spelling activity! Worksheet Word Families: -ush and -ash Crossword Worksheet Word Families: -ush and -ash Crossword Splash into practice with word families in this fun spelling activity! First Grade Word Families Worksheet Beginning Sounds Crosswords #1 Interactive Worksheet Beginning Sounds Crosswords #1 Kindergarten Phonics Spell CVC words confidently with the help of this engaging puzzle worksheet! Interactive Worksheet Beginning Sounds Crosswords #1 Interactive Worksheet Beginning Sounds Crosswords #1 Spell CVC words confidently with the help of this engaging puzzle worksheet! Kindergarten Phonics Interactive Worksheet 1 2


--- [Nixon reelected in landslide, Nov. 7, 1972 - POLITICO] ---
Nixon reelected in landslide, Nov. 7, 1972 On this day in 1972, President Richard M. Nixon, riding a strong economy and a wave of popularity, swamped his Democratic challenger, Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota, winning 60.7 percent of the popular vote and 520 electoral votes, to McGovern’s 37.5 percent and 17, respectively. In becoming the first Republican ever to sweep the South, Nixon received nearly 18 million more votes than McGovern. He still holds the record as having achieved the widest popular vote margin in any presidential election. The 1972 presidential election was also the first one since the ratification of the 26th Amendment, which lowered the voting age from 21 to 18. Nixon undercut McGovern’s main issue — a call for an immediate end to the Vietnam War — by promising to replace the draft with an all-volunteer force and by steadily drawing down the number of U.S. troops engaged in the conflict. During the campaign, without ever mentioning McGovern by name in public, Nixon portrayed McGovern, a World War II bomber pilot, as a left-wing extremist. Moreover, McGovern’s campaign never recovered from the revelation, after the Democratic National Convention, that his running mate, Sen. Thomas Eagleton of Missouri, had undergone psychiatric electroshock therapy as a treatment for depression. (Eagleton was replaced on the ballot by Sargent Shriver.) In seeking reelection, Nixon publicly chose to tread the high road. “It is time,” he said, “to get with the great tasks that lie before us. I have tried to conduct myself in this campaign in a way that would not divide our country, not divide it regionally, or by parties or in any other way, because I very firmly believe that what unites America today is infinitely more important than those things that divide us.” But, as Stephen Ambrose notes in his 1989 political biography, in private Nixon was “furious” at McGovern. “What upset him,” Ambrose writes, “were McGovern’s remarks about Nixon as a person. It was not so much the ‘most corrupt administration in history’ charge, or even the accusation that Nixon’s tactics were those of the KKK; the charge that cut was the comparison of Nixon with [Adolf] Hitler.” Ambrose concludes: “Insofar as no one in human history … can be compared to Hitler, who was pure evil and who did more harm to more people than any other human being, the comparison was blatantly unfair, unjustified, below the belt, inexcusable. Nixon had every reason to be furious.” Meantime, Henry Kissinger, Nixon’s national security adviser, who survived the Watergate scandal unscathed, told a Jewish reporter in a background briefing: “You can’t imagine how much anti-Semitism there is at the top of this government — I mean at the top.” Less than two years after his election victory, Nixon, mired in the Watergate scandal and facing near-certain removal from office by the Senate, resigned in disgrace and returned to his native California. SOURCE: “THIS DAY IN POLITICS,” BY PAUL BRANDUS (2018)
