=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jo Seagar - Wikipedia]
Seagar ran "Seagars at Oxford" cooking school, café and kitchenware store for about ten years, but it closed in 2015. Seager cited the decrease in tourism following the Canterbury earthquakes as the reason for its closure. [2][4][5] The company's collapse left thousands of dollars unpaid to employees and creditors. [6][7]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jo_Seagar

[Jo Seagar 'gutted' by cafe closure - Otago Daily Times Online News]
Aug 1, 2015 · Celebrity chef Jo Seagar has blamed the Canterbury earthquakes and an "impatient" Inland Revenue for closing the doors of her North Canterbury cafe and cook school. Seagars at Oxford closed on Friday. A sign on the door reads: "Winslow Trading Company Ltd, operator of Seagar Cafe, Cook School, Kitchen Store and B&B has been placed in liquidation." "It's really gutting. Another post-earthquake ...
URL: https://www.odt.co.nz/news/national/jo-seagar-gutted-cafe-closure

[Jo Seagar Oxford Cafe - East Phoenix]
Seagar ran "Seagars at Oxford" cooking school, café and kitchenware store for about ten years, but it closed in 2015 after tourism decreased following the Canterbury earthquakes.
URL: https://www.eastphoenixau.com/j-pages/jo-seagar-oxford-cafe.html

[Jo Seagar — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2]
Seagar ran "Seagars at Oxford" cooking school, café and kitchenware store for about ten years, but it closed in 2015. Seager cited the decrease in tourism following the Canterbury earthquakes as the reason for its closure. [2][4][5] The company's collapse left thousands of dollars unpaid to employees and creditors. [6][7]
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/Jo_Seagar

[Celebrity chef Jo Seagar 'gutted' by cafe and school closure]
Celebrity chef Jo Seagar has blamed the Canterbury earthquakes and an "impatient" Inland Revenue for the closing of her North Canterbury cafe and cook school. Seagars at Oxford closed on Friday.
URL: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/lifestyle/celebrity-chef-jo-seagar-gutted-by-cafe-and-school-closure/HFUTP5VDQIQIBSGGKMDHJLL6YY/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jo Seagar - Wikipedia] ---
Joanna Mary Seagar  (born 1955), generally known as Jo Seagar, is a New Zealand writer, TV personality and celebrity cook.


--- [Jo Seagar 'gutted' by cafe closure - Otago Daily Times Online News] ---
Seagars at Oxford closed on Friday. A sign on the door reads: "Winslow Trading Company Ltd, operator of Seagar Cafe, Cook School, Kitchen Store and B&B has been placed in liquidation." "It's really gutting. Another post-earthquake story," an emotional Ms Seagar said today. Local suppliers were not owed any money, she said. After the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes, business fell by 75 per cent "overnight". Canterbury also lost around 1.5 million tourists, which the cafe and cook school relied heavily on. Staff were kept on, on full pay, while the Seagars took in no income and battled to survive. "We did the decent thing, but in hindsight we should have fired everybody and cut back, but we didn't and we are paying the price of that now," Ms Seagar said. "We've had a great 10 years, a really thriving business, and then the earthquakes came. "The Inland Revenue is not patient enough post-earthquake and they put us in receivership. "We've actually been quite successful in trading and busy but not just enough to pay them. "It's just one of those stories, and I'm sure there are hundreds of little businesses like us. People have lots worse, don't they, lots worse." In February, Seagar revealed the business was on the market. "There have been a lot of rumours out there but yes, there is truth in this one -- Seagars at Oxford... is for sale," she wrote on her website at the time. "I am hoping we find the right new owner who will carry on and develop the extraordinary possibilities of this venture. "Oxford is a fabulous town with all the amenities within an easy drive of Christchurch with all its changes, growth and excitement post-quakes. "A couple of new opportunities have arisen for Ross and I and and a fast approaching significant birthday have had us thinking about What we'd like to do for the next decade." Today, she said that she and husband Ross, who is heavily involved in the local fire brigade, were committed to the Oxford area. "We'll just hunker down and decide on what to do next," said Ms Seagar, who was made a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit in the New Year's honours list for her work with Hospice New Zealand. "I still have great faith in Canterbury, it's just a bit of a bugger really. But we'll come back." By Kurt Bayer of NZME. News Service


--- [Jo Seagar Oxford Cafe - East Phoenix] ---
At eastphoenixau.com, we have collected a variety of information about restaurants, cafes, eateries, catering, etc. On the links below you can find all the data about Jo Seagar Oxford Cafe you are interested in. Jo Seagar Welcome to my website We continue to live the quiet country lifestyle in Oxford North Canterbury . Ross commuting into work in Christchurch city and in between times an active … Ross Seagar said liquidators were aware of any items removed. The building at 78 Main Street in Oxford - which houses the cafe, cook school … Celebrity chef Jo Seagar's North Canterbury cafe and cook school is in liquidation. Seagars at Oxford closed Friday. A sign on the door read: " … A café and cooking school owned by well-known Canterbury chef Jo Seagar has been put into liquidation after several months on the market. Seagars at Oxford closed on … Jo Seagar Welcome to my website We continue to live the quiet country lifestyle in Oxford North Canterbury . Ross commuting into work in Christchurch city and in between times an active … Now that her children, Kate, 26, and Guy, 25, have flown the nest, the Oxford-based personality wants to free up more time for herself, as well as for her adored grandkids, Leroy, three, and two-year-old Lucas. She plans to … Celebrity chef Jo Seagar’s North Canterbury cafe and cook school is in liquidation. Seagars at Oxford closed Friday. A sign on the door read: ‘‘Winslow Trading Company Ltd, … Ross Seagar said liquidators were aware of any items removed. The building at 78 Main St in Oxford – which houses the cafe, cook school and B&B – is owned by Ballymena … New Zealand Cook Book Author. Owner / Operator of Seagars Cafe, Cook School, Kitchen Store & B&B. Oxford, New Zealand I have just had a delicious lunch at Jo Seagars Cafe in Oxford. The menu had such a variety. Anyone who lives in Christchurch area I would recommend a visit to Jo"s. The staff … Joanna Mary Seagar MNZM (born 1955), generally known as Jo Seagar, is a New Zealand writer, TV personality and celebrity cook. Seagar lives in the small town of Oxford in North Canterbury, … Celebrity chef Jo Seagar has blamed the Canterbury earthquakes and an "impatient" Inland Revenue for the closing of her North Canterbury cafe and cook school. Seagars at … Jo Seagar: The Cook School Recipes. (Trade Paperback / Paperback) Jo Seagar's Cook School is attached to her fabulous cafe and shop in Oxford, Canterbury, and it's incredibly successful, … Jo ran "Seagars at Oxford" cooking school, café and kitchenware store for about ten years with her husband Ross, but it closed in 2015 after tourism decreased following the Canterbury … Three years ago, Jo and her husband Ross were heartbroken at losing their once-thriving business – the Seagars at Oxford cooking school, café and kitchenware store – in the … Celebrity chef Jo Seagar has blamed the Canterbury earthquakes and an "impatient" Inland Revenue for closing the doors of her North Canterbury cafe and cook school. … 1 rating. Paperback. $23.41 6 Used from $19.43. Jo Seagar's Cook School is attached to her fabulous cafe and shop in Oxford, Canterbury, and it's … Jo Seagar is one of New Zealand's best-loved cooks - her many cookbooks are always bestsellers, and she runs the very successful Seagars at Oxford, cafe, cookschool and kitchen store. Website ... Jo has established a cooking school /shop /accommodation in Oxford, Canterbury (see www.joseagar.com for details) and her image is moving more upmarket while remaining middle of the range. ... Jo Seagar, Oxford, New Zealand. 8,573 likes. Maximum effect for minimum effort has always been and remains my philosophy for entertaining. Seagar ran "Seagars at Oxford" cooking school, café and kitchenware store for about ten years, but it closed in 2015 after tourism decreased following the Canterbury earthquakes. Seagar … Highest Rating 1. Cruisy Days Diner 93 reviews Closed today American, New Zealand $$ - $$$ Menu “Day out” “Great service” 2. Cafe 51 147 reviews Closed Now New Zealand, Cafe $$ - $$$ … Jo Seagar's Cook School is attached to her fabulous cafe and shop in Oxford, Canterbury, and it's incredibly successful, being booked out at least nine months ahead of time. In her cook school … Livestock & Pets; Running the Farm; Rural People & Issues; Forums; More . Calculators; Vet talks; Expert advice; Ebooks; Fun stuff Joanna Mary Seagar MNZM (born 1955), generally known as Jo Seagar, is a New Zealand writer, TV personality and celebrity cook. Seagar lives in the small town of Oxford in North Canterbury, … Seagars Cook School and Cafe 78 Main Street, Oxford 7430, New Zealand +64 3 312 1435 http://joseagar.com/ Pegasus Bay Winery 263 Stockgrove Rd, Waipara 7482, New … What was awful about it? I remember my auntie took my grandma there a while ago and they were really disappointed, but I can't remember why. I understand not taking bookings at a swanky … Jo Seagar — dubbed ‘cook of the nation' by Next magazine — is the hugely successful bestselling cookbook author and TV cook, famed for her catch-cries of ‘Easy peasy' … Joanna Mary Seagar (born 1955), generally known as Jo Seagar, is a New Zealand writer, TV personality and celebrity cook. Seagar lives in the small town of Oxford in North Canterbury, … Famously known by the Family name Jo Seagar, is a great Writer.She was born on 1955, in New Zealand . Read Also: Gladys Chesir Kiptagelai Wiki, Biography, Age, Net Worth, Family, … Very Easy Fruitcake - Jo Seagar. Preheat oven to 160 degrees. Spray 23 cm cake tin. Mix all ingredients in a large bowl, transfer to cake tin. Bake one hour then turn oven down … A kiwi treasure, Jo Seagar is loved on TV and her cook books fly off the shelves. The Cafe, Cook School and Kitchen… Jul 2, 2012 - Lunch at Jo ‘easy peasy’ Seagar’s Cafe in Oxford is on most … Synopsis Jo Seagar's Cook School is attached to her fabulous cafe and shop in Oxford, Canterbury, and it's incredibly successful, being booked out at least nine months ahead of time. … Kick-start your day (breakfast); Summer fresh flavours (light lunches); Sweet sensations and these take the cake! (cakes, biscuits, muffins, slices); Hot off the grill (ribs, … In Jo Seagar Bakes, Jo is assuming the role of mother/grandmother/teacher, and through these pages will stand beside you, taking you through all the stages of each recipe.She’ll explain the … Jo Seagar is known as the Queen of Baking and now here, finally, is her first baking book destined to become the baking bible for all New Zealand cooks. ... trashy novels, good … 4.28. 18 ratings2 reviews. Recipes and tips from Jo Seagar's famous cook school. Jo Seagar's Cook School is attached to her fabulous cafe and shop in Oxford, New Zealand. It's … Seagars at Oxford in Oxford (Canterbury) reviews, contact details, photos, open hours and map directions. What. Where. Register; Log in; Seagars at Oxford. 0 reviews. Claim this company. … Oxford is a small town serving the farming community of North Canterbury, New Zealand.It is part of the Waimakariri District and is a linear town, approximately 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) long. … Find many great new & used options and get the best deals for Jo Seagar Cooks by Jo Seagar (Paperback, 2006) at the best online prices at eBay! Free shipping for many products! ... Her … The fourth addition to the Chelsea recipe book range, this book is the "cool" big sister to LIP SMACKIN'. The book targets more experienced cooks who love to entertain and eat well, and … Fishpond New Zealand, The Chelsea Cafe: Simple Tasty Cafe Food at Home by Jo SeagarBuy . Books online: The Chelsea Cafe: Simple Tasty Cafe Food at Home, 2005, Fishpond.co.nz ... Jo … Author: Jo Seagar ISBN 10: 1869417437. Publisher: Random House New Zealand ISBN 13: 9781869417437. Will be clean, not soiled or stained. Jo Seagar — dubbed ‘cook of the nation’ by Next magazine — is a hugely successful bestselling cookbook author and TV cook, famed for her catch-cries of ‘Easy peasy’ and ‘Maximum effect … 9781869419721 - Jo Seagar: the Cook School Recipes by Jo Seagar (6 results) You searched for: ISBN: 9781869419721. Edit your search. 6 results Sort By . Skip to main search results. … Jo Seagar. Buy Now orders cannot be placed without a valid Australian shipping address. Write a review. $33.19. This item is sold out To view similar items click here. Free Delivery ... Jun 4, 2012 - Fishpond New Zealand, Jo Seagar: The Cook School Recipes by Jo SeagarBuy . Books online: Jo Seagar: The Cook School Recipes, 2008, Fishpond.co.nz. Pinterest. Today. … We have collected data not only on Jo Seagar Oxford Cafe, but also on many other restaurants, cafes, eateries.


--- [Jo Seagar — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2] ---
No content


--- [Celebrity chef Jo Seagar 'gutted' by cafe and school closure] ---
After the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes, business fell by 75 per cent "overnight". Canterbury also lost around 1.5 million tourists, which the cafe and cook school relied heavily on. Staff were kept on, on full pay, while the Seagars took in no income and battled to survive. "We did the decent thing, but in hindsight we should have fired everybody and cut back, but we didn't and we are paying the price of that now," Ms Seagar said. "We've had a great 10 years, a really thriving business, and then the earthquakes came. "The Inland Revenue is not patient enough post-earthquake and they put us in receivership. "We've actually been quite successful in trading and busy but not just enough to pay them. "It's just one of those stories, and I'm sure there are hundreds of little businesses like us. People have lots worse, don't they, lots worse." In February, Seagar revealed the business was on the market. "There have been a lot of rumours out there but yes, there is truth in this one - Seagars at Oxford... is for sale," she wrote on her website at the time. "I am hoping we find the right new owner who will carry on and develop the extraordinary possibilities of this venture. "Oxford is a fabulous town with all the amenities within an easy drive of Christchurch with all its changes, growth and excitement post-quakes. "A couple of new opportunities have arisen for Ross and I and and a fast approaching significant birthday have had us thinking about What we'd like to do for the next decade." Today, she said that she and husband Ross, who is heavily involved in the local fire brigade, were committed to the Oxford area. "We'll just hunker down and decide on what to do next," said Ms Seagar, who was made a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit in the New Year's honours list for her work with Hospice New Zealand. "I still have great faith in Canterbury, it's just a bit of a bugger really. But we'll come back."
