=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Costume Institute - The Metropolitan Museum of Art]
The Costume Institute Benefit (also known as The Met Gala®) takes place annually on the first Monday in May and marks the opening of The Costume Institute's spring exhibition. The event provides the department with its primary source of funding for annual exhibitions, publications, acquisitions, and operations.
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/departments/the-costume-institute

[The History of the Costume Institute - by Bronwyn Newport]
May 2, 2025 · Under her leadership the Costume Institute created a memorable collection of exhibitions like The World of Balenciaga (1973), The Glory of Russian Costume (1976), and Vanity Fair (1977). These exhibitions galvanized audiences and set the standard for all future costume exhibitions globally through today. In 1989, Richard Martin took the helm.
URL: https://bronwynnewport.substack.com/p/the-history-of-the-costume-institute

[Richard Martin (curator) - Wikipedia]
Richard Martin in 1996 Richard Martin (1947 - 1999) was an American scholar, lecturer, critic and curator, and a leading art and fashion historian. At the time of his death he was curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, creating many critically acclaimed exhibitions and contributing widely towards publications on the subject. After his death, an award in his name ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Martin_(curator)

[Fashion Trivia: The Drama Behind Chanel's Costume Institute Exhibit]
A: The Met's Costume Institute was set to stage a Chanel retrospective in conjunction with an annual gala in December of 2000, but announced that May that it would be canceled. Per the museum, the ...
URL: https://fashionista.com/2023/04/chanel-met-gala-theme-drama-2000

[The "Heavenly Bodies" Exhibition Broke the Metropolitan Museum's All ...]
Oct 12, 2018 · Forty years after he cast a spell on Metropolitan Museum of Art visitors, King Tutankhamun’s reign has been usurped by the blockbuster “ Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination.” The Costume Institute exhibition, which closed on Monday, was the most visited show in the museum’s 148-year history, the Met announced yesterday.
URL: https://www.artsy.net/article/artsy-editorial-metropolitan-museum-broke-all-time-attendance-record-single-exhibition


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Costume Institute - The Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
The Costume Institute About Us The Costume Institute's collection of more than thirty-three thousand objects represents seven centuries of fashionable dress and accessories for men, women, and children, from the fifteenth century to the present. The redesigned Costume Institute space reopened in May 2014, after a two-year renovation, as the Anna Wintour Costume Center with the exhibition Charles James: Beyond Fashion. The complex includes the Lizzie and Jonathan Tisch Gallery, the main showcase space with a flexible design that lends itself to frequent transformation with video, sound, and wireless technology. The Center also includes the Carl and Iris Barrel Apfel Gallery to orient visitors to The Costume Institute's exhibitions. Behind the scenes is a state-of-the-art costume conservation laboratory; a study/storage facility to house the combined holdings of The Costume Institute and Brooklyn Museum Costume Collection; and The Irene Lewisohn Costume Reference Library, one of the world's foremost fashion libraries. The collection is open for research appointments by scholars, graduate students, doctoral students, and designers in relevant fields. For an appointment, please email CostumeInstitute.Collections@metmuseum.org. If you own a piece that you believe might enhance our department's holdings, please email CostumeInstitute.Acquisitions@metmuseum.org. The Costume Institute began as the Museum of Costume Art, an independent entity formed in 1937 and led by Neighborhood Playhouse founder Irene Lewisohn. In 1946, with the financial support of the fashion industry, the Museum of Costume Art merged with The Metropolitan Museum of Art as The Costume Institute, and in 1959 became a curatorial department. The legendary fashion arbiter Diana Vreeland, who served as special consultant from 1972 until her death in 1989, created a memorable suite of exhibitions, including The World of Balenciaga (1973), The Glory of Russian Costume (1976), and Vanity Fair (1977), galvanizing audiences and setting the standard for costume exhibitions globally. In 1989, Richard Martin took the helm, with the support of Harold Koda, and began a rotating cycle of thematic exhibitions including Infra-Apparel, Waist Not, The Four Seasons, and Cubism and Fashion. Martin's tenure culminated in Rock Style, the last exhibition before his death in 1999. Mr. Koda, who had previously departed from the Museum, rejoined The Met in 2000 as curator in charge, hiring Andrew Bolton in 2002. Upon Mr. Koda's retirement in January 2016, Mr. Bolton became curator in charge, and in March 2018, upon the endowment of the postion, he was named the Wendy Yu Curator in Charge. Exhibitions The Costume Institute organizes one or two special exhibitions each year. Recent monographic exhibitions have included Chanel (2005), Poiret: King of Fashion (2007), Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty (2011), Charles James: Beyond Fashion (2014), and Rei Kawakubo/Comme des Garçons: Art of the In-Between (2017). Recent thematic exhibitions have included AngloMania: Tradition and Transgression in British Fashion (2006); Superheroes: Fashion and Fantasy (2008); The Model as Muse: Embodying Fashion (2009); American Woman: Fashioning a National Identity (2010); Schiaparelli and Prada: Impossible Conversations (2012); PUNK: Chaos to Couture (2013); China: Through the Looking Glass (2015); Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology (2016); Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination (2018); and Camp: Notes on Fashion (2019). Heavenly Bodies attracted more than 1.65 million visitors to The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, making it The Met's most visited exhibition. Previous Costume Institute exhibitions among The Met's most attended include Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty; China: Through the Looking Glass; Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology; and Camp: Notes on Fashion. All five exhibitions were curated by Bolton. The Collection In January 2009, the Brooklyn Museum transferred its renowned costume collection to The Costume Institute, where it is known as the Brooklyn Museum Costume Collection at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. It includes the definitive collection of Charles James material, as well as the world's foremost holdings of American fashion from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century. The combined collections now constitute the largest and most comprehensive costume collection in the world, offering an unrivaled timeline of Western fashion history. The Costume Institute relies on the generosity of collectors, designers, and the public to expand its collection. If you have a piece that you believe might be of interest or could enhance our department’s holdings, please email CostumeInstitute.Acquisitions@metmuseum.org with a photo and brief description of your object, including its history of ownership. The Benefit The Costume Institute Benefit (also known as The Met Gala®) takes place annually on the first Monday in May and marks the opening of The Costume Institute’s spring exhibition. The event provides the department with its primary source of funding for annual exhibitions, publications, acquisitions, and operations. Each May, the gala celebrates the opening of the spring exhibition. Under the leadership of Trustee Anna Wintour (Artistic Director of Condé Nast and Editor-in-Chief of Vogue), who has been co-chair since 1995 (excluding 1996 and 1998), the gala has become one of the most visible and successful charity events, drawing attendees from the worlds of fashion, film, society, sports, business, and music. The brainchild of publicity doyenne Eleanor Lambert, the benefit was introduced in 1948 as a midnight supper and dubbed "The Party of the Year." Co-chairs in past years included Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis (1977–1978) and Patricia Taylor Buckley (1979–1995). Friends Group In 2002, the Museum established the Friends of The Costume Institute, a group that supports the department's exhibition, acquisition, conservation, and publication programs. In promoting a more profound historical and theoretical understanding of costume, these programs advance fashion as an art form and encourage the study of fashion as a serious academic discipline. Due to the sensitive nature of textiles, The Costume Institute's collection is not on permanent public view. Please visit the exhibition webpage for more information about upcoming programming and related tour offerings. The Costume Institute Collection is accessible to students, scholars, and designers by appointment. It is encouraged to search the holdings of The Costume Institute Collection to access images and information regarding these objects. For further information, please contact CostumeInstitute.Collections@metmuseum.org. Art Articles, Audio, and Video Featured Superfine Artist Tanda Francis, shares her inspiration behind the design of the custom mannequins used in the Superfine: Tailoring Black Style exhibition. The Latest - Video Raul Lopez of LUAR Explores Superfine Behind the Seams - Video An Evening with Dapper Dan: Style, Legacy, and What Comes Next - Video Behind the Scenes with Superfine Artist Torkwase Dyson Everything’s for Real: Recollections of Black Style - Video Continental Swagger: African Fashion Design in the 21st Century Research The Costume Institute Conservation department supports an active curatorial program of exhibitions, publications, and loans through its preservation, conservation, and technical research of the 33,000 objects in The Costume Institute’s collection, spanning from the fifteenth century to present. The Costume Institute's Irene Lewisohn Costume Reference Library collection contains 30,000 books and periodicals as well as over 1,500 designer files all pertaining to the history of fashion, haute couture, regional clothing, and costume from around the world, dated from the sixteenth century to today. Exhibitions Press the down key to skip to the last item.


--- [The History of the Costume Institute - by Bronwyn Newport] ---
No content


--- [Richard Martin (curator) - Wikipedia] ---
Richard Martin (1947 – 1999) was an American scholar, lecturer, critic and curator, and a leading art and fashion historian. At the time of his death he was curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, creating many critically acclaimed exhibitions and contributing widely towards publications on the subject. After his death, an award in his name was set up to recognise creative, high quality and innovative costume exhibitions.


--- [Fashion Trivia: The Drama Behind Chanel's Costume Institute Exhibit] ---
Fashion Trivia: The Drama Behind Chanel's Costume Institute Exhibit Test your fashion-industry knowledge with our new-old weekly series, Fashion Trivia! There’s no prize (yet) for having the right answer, but you get theoretical bonus points for not using Google. Q: Why did The Met cancel a Costume Institute exhibit on Chanel in 2000 (only to stage it five years later)? Scroll down for the answer... A: The Met's Costume Institute was set to stage a Chanel retrospective in conjunction with an annual gala in December of 2000, but announced that May that it would be canceled. Per the museum, the death of Chief Curator Richard Martin the year prior made it impossible to organize the exhibit by the due date, but a Chanel exhibit wasn't staged until five years later. Recommended Articles At the time, Cathy Horyn reported via The New York Times that Karl Lagerfeld, who always had a famous distaste for retrospectives, butted heads with the museum's director, Philippe de Montebello, because he wanted the exhibit to incorporate the work of contemporary artists of other disciplines, saying, "I'm not interested in an exhibit that's just old dresses." Montebello told Horyn that he felt the museum's curatorial integrity was being "eroded" by Lagerfeld's input. With Chanel also contributing financially, the long-delayed exhibit also spurred debate about whether companies should be allowed to sponsor and thus have influence over an exhibit covering its own history and work, a debate that bubbled up again when the Chanel retrospective was staged in May of 2005. This time around, Lagerfeld didn't really get involved and reportedly didn't even attend the show, telling press at the time, "I dislike retrospectives." Drama aside, this saga is also significant for another reason. The cancellation of the 2000 Chanel exhibit shifted the timing of The Met's fashion exhibits from fall to spring, and the 2005 Chanel opening marked the first time the annual gala took place on the first Monday of May. With the exception of the Covid-19 pandemic, that's when it's been held ever since. On this coming Monday, the industry elite with gather to celebrate the opening of "Karl Lagerfeld: A Line of Beauty." Acknowledging Lagerfeld's feelings about these types of exhibits, Chief Curator Andrew Bolton told the Times recently, "I am sure he would hate it. He'd probably still refuse to come." Never miss the latest fashion industry news. Sign up for the Fashionista daily newsletter.


--- [The "Heavenly Bodies" Exhibition Broke the Metropolitan Museum's All ...] ---
The Metropolitan Museum of Art broke its all-time attendance record for a single exhibition. Installation view of “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination.” Photo © The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Forty years after he cast a spell on Metropolitan Museum of Art visitors, King Tutankhamun’s reign has been usurped by the blockbuster “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination.” The Costume Institute exhibition, which closed on Monday, was the most visited show in the museum’s 148-year history, the Met announced yesterday. It attracted 1,659,647 visitors to the Met’s main branch on Fifth Avenue and its Washington Heights outpost, the Cloisters, during its five-month run, beating the previous record of 1,360,957 visitors set by 1978’s “Treasures of Tutankhamun.” The attendance figures for “Heavenly Bodies” include 1.43 million people who saw the part of the show at the Met’s main branch, and another 228,737 who visited it at the Cloisters—although, as Los Angeles Times critic Christopher Knight pointed out on Twitter, it’s unclear whether a person who went to both locations would be counted as one visitor or two. In defense of the Met, the two locations are, at a fair estimate, more than six miles apart, which requires a concerted trek. And in any case, “Heavenly Bodies” would still be the new record-holder, with some 70,000 more people seeing it at the Met’s main branch than lined up for King Tut. This news comes on the heels of the Met’s announcement that next year’s Costume Institute exhibition and gala theme will be camp, and reports of the museum’s plan to sublease the Breuer building to the Frick Collection.
