=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Two Fridas]
The Two Fridas (Las dos Fridas in Spanish) is an oil painting by Mexican artist Frida Kahlo. The painting was the first large-scale work done by Kahlo and is ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Two_Fridas

[The Hunt: How Frida Kahlo's Final Painting Vanished Into Storage]
May 21, 2024 — Called La Mesa Herida in Spanish, the eight-by-four-foot canvas—an unusually large size for Kahlo, who in contrast to her husband's ...
URL: https://news.artnet.com/art-world/the-hunt-wounded-table-kahlo-2461778

[Frida Kahlo | Biography, Paintings, Self-Portrait, Accident, Husband ...]
Feb 16, 2026 · Frida Kahlo was a Mexican painter known for her uncompromising and brilliantly colored self-portraits that confront such themes as identity, the human body, and death. Some of her notable paintings included Frieda and Diego Rivera (1931) and The Two Fridas (1939). Read more about Kahlo’s life and career.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Frida-Kahlo

[The 5 emblematic paintings of the greatest Mexican painter]
The painting Frida Kahlo named "Self-portrait with thorn necklace and hummingbird", made in 1940, is one of the most famous paintings of the artist. This major work depicts the artist from the front, surrounded by a monkey on her right and a black cat on her left.
URL: https://www.carredartistes.com/en-us/blog/the-5-most-beautiful-paintings-of-frida-kahlo

[Frida Kahlo]
Frida Kahlo and her paintings Mexican artist Frida Kahlo is remembered for her self-portraits, pain and passion, and bold, vibrant colors. She is celebrated in Mexico for her attention to Mexican and indigenous culture and by feminists for her depiction of the female experience and form.
URL: https://www.fridakahlo.org/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Two Fridas] ---
The Two Fridas (Las dos Fridas in Spanish) is an oil painting by Mexican artist Frida Kahlo. The painting was the first large-scale work done by Kahlo and is considered one of her most notable paintings. It is a double self-portrait, depicting two versions of Kahlo seated together. One is wearing a white European style Victorian dress, while the other is wearing a traditional Tehuana dress. The painting is housed at the Museo de Arte Moderno in Mexico City.


--- [The Hunt: How Frida Kahlo's Final Painting Vanished Into Storage] ---
Archaeology & History The Hunt: How Frida Kahlo’s Final Painting Vanished Into Storage Kahlo's painting traveled from Mexico City to Moscow and Warsaw, where it ultimately disappeared without a trace. Mexican painter Frida Kahlo began work on The Wounded Table in late 1939, around the time she (temporarily) ended her relationship with fellow artist Diego Rivera. Called La Mesa Herida in Spanish, the eight-by-four-foot canvas—an unusually large size for Kahlo, who in contrast to her husband’s sprawling murals preferred to work in a smaller format—depicts the artist seated at a table that has human legs, surrounded by two children (her sister Cristina’s), a papier-mâché skeleton, a pre-Columbian figurine, and her pet deer Granizo. The painting is typically interpreted as a representation of the despair, frustration, and betrayal Kahlo experienced during her divorce from Rivera. (“I simply wanted to be free to carry on with any woman who caught my fancy,” he later said. “Was I simply the depraved victim of my own appetites?”) With a composition that mirrors that of Leonardo da Vinci’s The Last Supper, it made its debut at the 1940 Exposición Internacional del Surrealismo in Mexico City, alongside The Persistence of Memory (1931) by Salvador Dalí and The Treachery of Images (1929) by René Magritte. The Wounded Table was exhibited at a number of museums and galleries before Kahlo made the decision in 1943 to donate her work to the government of the Soviet Union in an attempt to restore her relationship with the Communist Party. Kahlo was a staunch socialist, but her ties with Moscow had suffered as a result of her contact with Leon Trotsky, whom she befriended after the exiled revolutionary settled in Mexico a decade earlier. Although the USSR accepted her gesture, ideological shifts in the Communist Party ultimately prevented her work from going on display. “It is necessary to bear in mind that we are interested in the works of the realist movement,” a Soviet official informed his Mexico-based colleagues in a 1948 letter. Kahlo’s Surrealist style was “alien to the principles of Soviet Realist art,” and therefore “the possibility of displaying such artworks in the Soviet Union is excluded.” Another letter informed Mexico City that The Wounded Table was going to be removed from its stretcher and sent to the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts for storage. Here, it would have remained were it not for Rivera, who, according to an article by art historians Helga Prignitz-Poda and Katarina Lopatkina, convinced the Soviets to show the painting at a 1955 exhibition in Warsaw, Poland. The show, which took place a year after Kahlo’s death at the age of 47, marked the last time The Wounded Table was seen in public. (In 2017, a black-and-white replica of the work went on view in a Polish group show in an effort to locate it.) Despite consulting an extensive list of Mexican, Polish, and Russian sources, Prignitz-Poda and Lopatkina were unable to locate the canvas. “As we now know that Moscow did not really esteem the gift of Frida Kahlo’s painting, and found it not worth exhibiting and too expensive to transport,” they concluded, “it is quite likely that after Warsaw it was not even sent back to Moscow, but remained in Poland.” Despite its storied past, the fate of The Wounded Table is not unique. Of the 300 or so works produced by Kahlo during her short life, more than half are either missing, confirmed to have been destroyed, or in the hands of private parties that refuse to loan them to exhibitions. The Hunt explores art and ancient relics that are—alas!—lost to time. From the Ark of the Covenant to Cleopatra’s tomb, these legendary treasures have long captured the imaginations of historians and archaeologists, even if they remain buried under layers of sand, stone, and history.


--- [Frida Kahlo | Biography, Paintings, Self-Portrait, Accident, Husband ...] ---
Frida Kahlo What is Frida Kahlo best known for? What happened to Frida Kahlo when she was 18? Was Frida Kahlo LGBTQ? Which of Frida Kahlo’s paintings is in the Louvre in Paris? When was the Frida Kahlo Museum established? Frida Kahlo (born July 6, 1907, Coyoacán, Mexico—died July 13, 1954, Coyoacán) was a Mexican painter best known for her uncompromising and brilliantly colored self-portraits that deal with such themes as identity, the human body, and death. Her art was shaped by her experiences, including her lifelong health struggles and disability after a near-fatal bus accident, her Mexican and European heritage, and her complicated marriage to Mexican muralist Diego Rivera (married 1929, divorced 1939, remarried 1940). During her lifetime Kahlo was respected in creative circles in Mexico and elsewhere—she participated in a handful of exhibitions, sold a small number of paintings, and received several commissions—but she struggled to make money from her art. Her work was often overshadowed by the murals of Rivera, one of Mexico’s most celebrated painters. Kahlo’s reputation grew steadily after her death, however, reaching what some critics called “Fridamania” by the 21st century. Early years and bus accident - 1907: Born in Coyoacán, Mexico, on July 6. - 1913: Contracts polio, which leaves Kahlo with a slight limp. - 1925: Seriously injured while riding a bus home from school when it collides with a trolley. During her slow recovery Kahlo teaches herself to paint. - 1929: Marries fellow Mexican artist Diego Rivera. - 1930–33: Accompanies Rivera to the United States, where he has received commissions for murals in San Francisco, Detroit, and New York City, and loses several pregnancies during her time abroad. - 1938: Struggles to make money from her art but makes her first major sale when American actor Edward G. Robinson purchases four of her paintings. She also has her first solo exhibition, at the Julien Levy Gallery, New York City. While there, Vanity Fair editor Clare Boothe Luce commissions Kahlo to paint a tribute to actress Dorothy Hale, who had died by suicide earlier that year. - 1939: Shows her work in “Mexique,” a group exhibition at Galerie Renou et Colle, Paris, organized by André Breton. She also sells her painting The Frame to the French government. Later that year she divorces Rivera. - 1940: Kahlo’s work is shown in the “International Exhibition of Surrealism” at Galería de Arte Mexicano, Mexico City, and in “Twenty Centuries of Mexican Art” at the Museum of Modern Art, New York City. She remarries Rivera at the end of the year. - 1943–54: Teaches at La Esmeralda (previously known as the Ministry of Public Education’s School of Painting and Sculpture), Mexico City, holding classes from her home at La Casa Azul (“The Blue House”) when she is too ill to travel. - 1953: Kahlo has her first solo exhibition in her home country, at Galería de Arte Contemporáneo, Mexico City. She attends in a bed because of illness. Her right leg is amputated later that year as a result of gangrene. - 1954: Dies in her home in Coyoacán, Mexico, on July 13, days after her 47th birthday. Kahlo was born to a German father of Hungarian descent and a Mexican mother of Spanish and Native American descent. Later, during her artistic career, Kahlo explored her identity by frequently depicting her ancestry as binary opposites: the colonial European side and the Indigenous Mexican side. As a child, she suffered a bout of polio that left her with a slight limp, an ailment she endured throughout her life. Kahlo was especially close to her father, a professional photographer, and she frequently assisted him in his studio, where she acquired a sharp eye for detail. Although Kahlo took some drawing classes, she was more interested in science, and in 1922 she entered the National Preparatory School in Mexico City with an interest in eventually studying medicine. While there she met Rivera, who was working on a mural for the school’s auditorium. In 1925 Kahlo was riding a bus home from school when it collided with a trolley. She was seriously injured in the accident, with multiple fractures in her spine, right leg, collarbone, ribs, and pelvis. Her shoulder was dislocated, her right foot crushed, and her abdomen and uterus punctured by an iron handrail. She later joked that this was the moment she lost her virginity. The injuries plagued Kahlo for the rest of her life, and she underwent more than 30 medical procedures in subsequent decades. While bedridden Kahlo taught herself to paint, and she read frequently, studying the art of the Old Masters. In one of her early paintings, Self-Portrait Wearing a Velvet Dress (1926), Kahlo painted a waist-length portrait of herself against a dark background with stylized waves. Although the painting is fairly abstract, Kahlo’s soft modeling of her face shows her interest in naturalism. The stoic gaze so prevalent in her later art is already evident, and the exaggeratedly long neck and fingers reveal her interest in the Mannerist painter Il Bronzino. After her convalescence, Kahlo joined the Mexican Communist Party (PCM), where she met Rivera once again. She showed him some of her work, and he encouraged her to continue to paint. Marriage to Diego Rivera and travels to the United States Soon after marrying Rivera in 1929, Kahlo changed her personal and painting style. She began to wear the traditional Tehuana dress that became her trademark. It consisted of a flowered headdress, a loose blouse, gold jewelry, and a long ruffled skirt. Her painting Frieda and Diego Rivera (1931) shows not only her new attire but also her new interest in Mexican folk art. The subjects are flatter and more abstract than those in her previous work. The towering Rivera stands to the left, holding a palette and brushes, the objects of his profession. He appears as an important artist, while Kahlo, who is petite and demure beside him, with her hand in his and painted with darker skin than in her earlier work, conveys the role she may have presumed he wanted: that of a traditional Mexican wife. Kahlo painted that work while traveling in the United States (1930–33) with Rivera, who had received commissions for murals in San Francisco, Detroit, and New York City. During this time, she experienced a few difficult pregnancies that ended prematurely. After suffering a miscarriage in Detroit and later the death of her mother, Kahlo painted some of her most harrowing works. In Henry Ford Hospital (1932) Kahlo depicted herself hemorrhaging on a hospital bed amid a barren landscape, and in My Birth (1932) she painted a rather taboo scene of a woman, shrouded in a white sheet, giving birth. First solo exhibitions and travel to Paris In 1933 Kahlo and Rivera returned to Mexico, where they lived in a newly constructed house in Mexico City comprising separate individual spaces joined by a bridge. The residence became a gathering spot for artists and political activists, and the couple hosted the likes of Leon Trotsky and André Breton, a leading Surrealist who championed Kahlo’s work. Breton was instrumental in organizing her first solo exhibition, in 1938 at Julien Levy’s gallery in New York City. Breton wrote the introduction to the brochure, describing her as a self-taught Surrealist. That same year Kahlo made one of her first sales; the actor and collector Edward G. Robinson purchased four of her pieces. - In full: - Frida Kahlo de Rivera - Original name: - Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón - Died: - July 13, 1954, Coyoacán (aged 47) - Notable Works: - “Frieda and Diego Rivera” - “Henry Ford Hospital” - “My Birth” - Movement / Style: - Surrealism - Notable Family Members: - spouse Diego Rivera - On the Web: - Official Site of Frida Kahlo Museum (Feb. 16, 2026) Kahlo’s success continued the next year, when her art was included in a group exhibition in Paris. She traveled there on her own and met additional Surrealists, including Marcel Duchamp, the only member of the movement she reportedly respected. One of her works, The Frame (c. 1938), was acquired by the French government, making Kahlo the first 20th-century Mexican artist to be included in the state’s collection.


--- [The 5 emblematic paintings of the greatest Mexican painter] ---
The 5 emblematic paintings of the greatest Mexican painter Frida Kahlo You've heard of this artist, but you're not sure what her paintings are about? Here are explanations and anecdotes on 5 emblematic paintings of Kahlo, to become unaware of her paintings and understand the hidden meaning of her works. #1 Self-portrait with thorn necklace and hummingbird, 1940 This major work depicts the artist from the front, surrounded by a monkey on her right and a black cat on her left. She is wearing a necklace of thorns that pierce her neck and draw a few drops of blood, where a dead hummingbird is hanging. The artist is dressed in traditional Mexican attire. The painting is in the collections of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. What does this painting mean? Frida wanted to represent the pain she felt after her separation from the painter Diego Rivera. The two artists divorced in 1938 and remarried in December 1940. This divorce was very difficult for Kahlo, who painted several paintings on the theme of love's tear. The hummingbird (dead) represents luck, definitely lost. The black cat, a sign of bad luck, tries to catch the bird, to eat it or hurt it further. While the monkey, in Christian symbolism, is associated with the devil. The artist represents her ex-husband, Diego, through the primate that is tying the necklace of thorns around her neck, in an attitude of indifference to the pain she feels. #2 The Two Fridas Kahlo Kahlo lived very badly this separation which plunged her into a profound disarray. In this painting Frida Kahlo represents two Fridas who are holding hands, but who do not have the same attitude or the same physical appearance. On the left, the artist is elegantly dressed in a traditional white dress, similar to a wedding dress. She is wearing makeup and is standing up straight. On her chest, we can see her heart, exposed out of her body by a tear, with two veins visible. The dress is stained with blood from a vein. On the right, the artist is dressed in a Tehuana, a traditional Mexican dress. Her face is colored, without any makeup. She adopts a masculine look by her position (legs spread) and with a visible mustache. Her heart is intact. An artery connects the two Fridas, where the one on the left is kept alive by the one on the right. This painting is an attempt to reconnect and reconcile the artist with herself following her breakup. #3 Self-Portrait on the Mexican-American Border, 1932 This 1932 painting is a must-see in the work of the Mexican artist. In this beautiful painting Frida Kahlo represents her personal life and experiences. In 1930, Frida followed her husband to the United States, to San Francisco, to paint murals. Unlike him, she did not appreciate the American atmosphere and way of life, whose habits and customs were too far removed from her culture. This painting represents the artist's disgust and weariness for the United States. She represents herself between the two countries, Mexico on the left and the United States on the right. On the side of the United States, we see the Ford factory in River Rouge, symbol of industrialization, the American flag in the middle of the smoke of the factories, buildings and symbols of technical and modern evolution. The earth seems barren, dried up and the roots of the plants are replaced by electric cables. On the left, the artist represents Mexico, his native country. Nature is flourishing and symbols of ancient Mexico, ruins and Aztec objects can be seen. The artist stands between the two worlds and holds a Mexican flag, to signify his strong attachment to his roots. #4 The Broken Column, 1944 The painting "The Broken Column" was done in 1944. This self-portrait shows the artist in front, standing in the middle of an arid and barren landscape, his bare chest held tight by a white corset. The impression is disturbing and the painting is hard to look at. The artist's body is strewn with numerous nails, opened in two to reveal a spine made of steel and broken in several places. Large tears flow from Kahlo's eyes, as her gaze is fixed on the viewer. Among Kahlo's many self-portraits, this one is particularly strong and moving. The pain that emanates from the work is palpable, while at the same time one discerns the strength and pride that allow the artist to hold on. This work echoes the bus accident that occurred in 1925, when the artist was only 18 years old, and which left him with serious after-effects for the rest of his life. Although the work is full of symbols, Kahlo defends herself from being a surrealist: she does not paint dreams, she paints her life and her personal experiences, those of a suffering and broken woman who can only fight to live. #5 The Wounded Deer, 1946 This small painting entitled "The Wounded Deer" was created in 1946 by Frida Kahlo.The painting measures only 22.5 x 30 cm. The atmosphere created is strange, almost fantastic and intimate. There is a visual exchange with the deer, whose body is faithfully reproduced, but whose facial features are those of the artist, and who stares at the viewer from the front in a stoic attitude. The artist's face is easily recognizable, with thick eyebrows, eyes and very brown hair. The deer is wounded by several arrows that pierce its back and chest. He is in the middle of a frightening wood, alone with his pain. In this painting Frida Kahlo represents the surgery she underwent that same year in New York, in an attempt to alleviate her back pain (following her serious accident in 1925). Convinced that the pain would stop after the operation, Frida is depressed when she realizes that the operation has failed and the pain returns. This painting represents the artist's physical and psychological distress and suffering as she realizes that nothing can ever relieve her. Do not miss a favorite, each unique work is the knowledge of an artist, it does not hesitate a second as yours in the world. Unfortunately a favorite is not duplicated ... then ready to become a collector or art lover? Read more articles about Frida Kahlo : 🎨 ¡ Viva el arte ! : paintings inspired by Frida Kahlo 🎨 Frida Kahlo: artistic current and painting style 🎨 Frida Kahlo's influence today 🎨 Discovering Frida Kahlo 🎨 Top 10 things to know about the artist Frida Kahlo


--- [Frida Kahlo] ---
Frida Kahlo and her paintings Mexican artist Frida Kahlo is remembered for her self-portraits, pain and passion, and bold, vibrant colors. She is celebrated in Mexico for her attention to Mexican and indigenous culture and by feminists for her depiction of the female experience and form. Kahlo, who suffered from polio as a child, nearly died in a bus accident as a teenager. She suffered multiple fractures of her spine, collarbone and ribs, a shattered pelvis, broken foot and a dislocated shoulder. She began to focus heavily on painting while recovering in a body cast. In her lifetime, she had 30 operations. Life experience is a common theme in Kahlo's approximately 200 paintings, sketches and drawings. Her physical and emotional pain are depicted starkly on canvases, as is her turbulent relationship with her husband, fellow artist Diego Rivera, who she married twice. Of her 143 paintings, 55 are self-portraits. The devastation to her body from the bus accident is shown in stark detail in The Broken Column. Kahlo is depicted nearly naked, split down the middle, with her spine presented as a broken decorative column. Her skin is dotted with nails. She is also fitted with a surgical brace. Kahlo's first self-portrait was Self-Portrait in a Velvet Dress in 1926. It was painted in the style of 19th Century Mexican portrait painters who themselves were greatly influenced by the European Renaissance masters. She also sometimes drew from the Mexican painters in her use of a background of tied-back drapes. Self-Portrait - Time Flies (1929), Portrait of a Woman in White (1930) and Self-Portrait Dedicated to Leon Trotsky (1937) all bear this background. I paint self-portraits because I am so often alone, because I am the person I know best." - Frida Kahlo In her second-self portrait, "Time Flies," Kahlo uses a folk style and vibrant colors. She wears peasant clothing, and the red, white and green in the painting are the colors of the Mexican flag. During her life, self portrait is a subject that Frida Kahlo always returns to, as artists have always returned to their beloved themes - Rembrandt his Self Portrait, Vincent van Gogh his Sunflowers, and Claude Monet his Water Lilies. Frida and Diego: Love and Pain Kahlo and Rivera had a tumultuous relationship, marked by multiple affairs on both sides. Self-Portrait With Cropped Hair (1940), Kahlo is depicted in a man's suit, holding a pair of scissors, with her fallen hair around the chair in which she sits. This represents the times she would cut the hair Rivera loved when he had affairs. The 1937 painting Memory, the Heart, shows Kahlo's pain over her husband's affair with her younger sister Christina. A large broken heart at her feet shows the intensity of Kahlo's anguish. Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera divorced in 1939, but reunited a year later and remarried. The Two Fridas (1939) depicts Kahlo twice, shortly after the divorce. One Frida wears a costume from the Tehuana region of Mexico, representing the Frida that Diego loved. The other Frida wears a European dress as the woman who Diego betrayed and rejected. Later, she is back in Tehuana dress in Self-Portrait as a Tehuana (1943) and Self Portrait (1948). Pre-Columbian artifacts were common both in the Kahlo/Rivera home (Diego collected sculptures and idols, and Frida collected Jewelry) and in Kahlo's paintings. She wore jewelry from this period in Self-Portrait - Time Flies (1926), Self-Portrait With Monkey (1938) and Self-Portrait With Braid (1941), among others. Other Pre-Columbian artifacts are found in The Four Inhabitants of Mexico City (1938), Girl With Death Mask (1938) and Self-Portrait With Small Monkeys (1945). My painting carries with it the message of pain." - Frida Kahlo Surreal or Realist? Frida Kahlo participated in the "International Exhibition of Surrealism" in 1940 at the Galeria de Arte, Mexicano. There, she exhibited her two largest paintings: The Two Fridas and The Wounded Table (1940). Surrealist Andrew Breton considered Kahlo a surrealistic, a label Kahlo rejected, saying she just painted her reality. However, In 1945, when Don Jose Domingo Lavin asked Frida Kahlo to read the book Moses and Monotheism by Sigmund Freud - whose psychoanalysis works Surrealism is based on - and paint her understanding and interpretation of this book. Frida Kahlo painted Moses, and this painting was recognized as second prize at the annual art exhibition in the Palacio de Bellas Artes. Kahlo did not sell many paintings in her lifetime, although she painted occasional portraits on commission. She had only one solo exhibition in Mexico in her lifetime, in 1953, just a year before her death at the age of 47. Today, her works sell for very high prices. In May 2006, Frida Kahlo self-portrait, Roots, was sold for $5.62 million at a Sotheby's auction in New York, sets a record as the most expensive Latin American work ever purchased at auction, and also makes Frida Kahlo one of the highest-selling woman in art. Widely known for her Marxist leanings, Frida, along with Marxism Revolutionary Che Guevara and a small band of contemporary figures, has become a countercultural symbol of the 20th century, and created a legacy in art history that continues to inspire the imagination and mind. Born in 1907, dead at 47, Frida Kahlo achieved celebrity even in her brief lifetime that extended far beyond Mexico's borders, although nothing like the cult status that would eventually make her the mother of the selfie, her indelible image recognizable everywhere. At the Frida Kahlo Museum in Mexico City, her personal belongings are on display throughout the house, as if she still lived there. Kahlo was born and grew up in this building, whose cobalt walls gave way to the nickname of the Blue House. She lived there with her husband for some years, and she died there. The facility is the most popular museum in the Coyoacan neighborhood and among the most visited in Mexico City.
