=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lux Pascal Says Brother Pedro Was 'Over the Roof' After Ryan Murphy ...]
Feb 13, 2026 — Lux Pascal has revealed how her brother, Pedro Pascal, reacted after she was cast on The Beauty · The actress said that it's been a dream of hers ...
URL: https://people.com/lux-pascal-shares-pedro-pascal-reaction-after-she-was-cast-on-the-beauty-exclusive-11904801

[Pedro Pascal Brought His Sister Lux to 'The Fantastic Four: First Steps ...]
Pedro, who is 17 years older than Lux, remained in the states with their older sister Javiera, but he often returned to Chile for visits. And according to him, Lux called the shots in the house ...
URL: https://www.msn.com/en-us/entertainment/entertainment-celebrity/pedro-pascal-brought-his-sister-lux-to-the-fantastic-four-first-steps-premiere/ar-AA1JAGhm

[Lux Pascal - Wikipedia]
In 2017, Lux appeared in an international series for the first time, playing the role of Elias in the third season of the Netflix series Narcos, alongside her brother Pedro.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lux_Pascal

[Pedro Pascal Celebrates Sister Lux Pascal's New Role in 'The Beauty']
Feb 13, 2026 — The 33-year-old actress is now stepping into the role of Clara, a scientist struggling with her gender transition, in The Beauty. "I was really ...
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/tv/articles/pedro-pascal-celebrates-sister-lux-173926442.html

[Pedro Pascal - Wikipedia]
Pedro Pascal ... José Pedro Balmaceda Pascal (Spanish: [xoˈse ˈpeðɾo βalmaˈseða pasˈkal]; born April 2, 1975) is a Chilean and American actor. Known for his portrayals of parental figures, he has starred in television series and blockbuster films.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pedro_Pascal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lux Pascal Says Brother Pedro Was 'Over the Roof' After Ryan Murphy ...] ---
Lux Pascal Says Brother Pedro Was 'Over the Roof' After Ryan Murphy Cast Her on The Beauty (Exclusive) The actress joined the FX thriller as Clara, making her debut in episode 6 By Stacy Lambe Published on February 13, 2026 10:38AM EST 3 Comments From left: Pedro Pascal with Lux Pascal at the 'Gladiator II' premiere on Nov. 13, 2024. Credit : Gareth Cattermole/Getty NEED TO KNOW Lux Pascal has revealed how her brother, Pedro Pascal, reacted after she was cast on The BeautyThe actress said that it's been a dream of hers to join a Ryan Murphy seriesLux also shared how the co-creator of the FX thriller reacted to her performance on the show When it comes to his sister, Lux, Pedro Pascal has a lot to be proud of. On Wednesday, Feb. 11, the actress made one of her dreams come true, officially making her debut on a Ryan Murphy show as Clara in episode 6 of The Beauty. At 33 years old, Lux has already appeared opposite her brother on Narcos and led the 2025 biopic Miss Carbón. In addition to starring in a number of Chilean TV shows and movies, she's also shared the stage with Michael Urie in the Off-Broadway production of Richard II in New York City and has been added to the ensemble cast of Tom Ford's highly anticipated new movie. But as she tells PEOPLE, joining Murphy's television universe was a long time coming. "I was really excited because this is my first time being a part of a show that is produced by Ryan Murphy. I've always been captivated by his vision throughout all the things he does," Lux says, before revealing, "I had been auditioning for a lot of his shows and finally this one was the right fit and I was just, like, so, so excited." Our new app is here! Free, fun and full of exclusives. Scan to download now! And, of course, Pedro, 50, shared in the joy Lux felt after landing a coveted role on the hit body horror series. "Oh my God. When I told him, he was so excited. He knows how big of a fan I am of Ryan Murphy. So, I was just over the roof and he was over the roof for me," she shares. Lux recalls that "he was like, 'Oh my God. This is one of the dreams you've had. You finally made it happen.' And I was like, 'Well, yes.' " It should come as no surprise that Pedro had such a reaction. The upcoming Avengers: Doomsday star has always been very supportive of his sister throughout the years. From left: Pedro Pascal with Lux Pascal at 'The Fantastic Four: First Steps' premiere on July 21, 2025. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin/FilmMagic Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Reflecting on their childhood, the actress told PEOPLE in July 2025 that even when the two lived in different countries, "he always showed up." "He has a very powerful personality, and he was always the most fun to be around with. I would ditch all my friends just to hang out with my brother. It was such a special moment whenever he would visit us in Chile," Lux recalled. She also shared how close the two are, revealing that "we protect each other very much. He protects me a lot, but I guess I'm more under the radar, but I protect him a lot too." Related Stories Pedro Pascal's Sister, Actress Lux Pascal, Gives Honest Answer to People Asking If Her Brother Is as Kind as They Think He Is Pedro Pascal Helps Sister Lux Fix Her Gown on the Red Carpet in Sweet Sibling Moment: Watch! As for playing Clara — a scientist who is struggling with her gender transition before opting to take an illegal dose of the miracle body transformation drug created by Ashton Kutcher's tech billionaire character — on The Beauty, the experience was everything Lux hoped. "I was just enthralled by the story of this virus that makes people beautiful, but it's also lethal," she tells PEOPLE about her interest in the show's concept, while revealing that it was all very "exciting." While working with Murphy, 60, was a long time coming for the actress, she was thrilled to learn that she left a notable impression on the prolific TV producer. "I hope I'm not overstepping when I say this, but I was just too excited when it happened. He personally messaged me after he had been viewing the show and they were doing the edits to finalize the episode," she recalls. Lux adds, "He texted me this beautiful, heartfelt message — and it was so funny because I was having such a hard day that day, and that just turned it completely around. I was like, 'Hey nothing else matters.' " New episodes of The Beauty air Wednesdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on FX and at 9 p.m. ET on Hulu. Close Leave a Comment Read more: Entertainment TV Scripted TV Shows


--- [Pedro Pascal Brought His Sister Lux to 'The Fantastic Four: First Steps ...] ---
No content


--- [Lux Pascal - Wikipedia] ---
Lux Balmaceda Pascal (born June 4, 1992) is an American and Chilean actress and transgender activist. She is known for her roles in the Chilean television series Veinteañero a los 40 and Juana Brava and the Chilean drama film The Prince.




--- [Pedro Pascal Celebrates Sister Lux Pascal's New Role in 'The Beauty'] ---
Pedro Pascal Celebrates Sister Lux Pascal's New Role in 'The Beauty' - Lux Pascal, known for her roles in Narcos and Miss Carbon, is set to star in Ryan Murphy's new TV series The Beauty as Clara, a scientist navigating a gender transition. Pedro Pascalis proudly celebrating his sister, Lux Pascal, in her exciting new role in Ryan Murphy’s latest television series. Lux had previously starred alongside her brother in Narcos and was the lead in the 2025 film Miss Carbón. The 33-year-old actress is now stepping into the role of Clara, a scientist struggling with her gender transition, in The Beauty. "I was really excited because this is my first time being a part of a show that is produced by Ryan Murphy. I've always been captivated by his vision throughout all the things he does," Lux told People. "I had been auditioning for a lot of his shows and finally this one was the right fit and I was just, like, so, so excited." When it came to what drew her to the project, she said, "I was just enthralled by the story of this virus that makes people beautiful, but it's also lethal." Lux shared with People how her brother reacted when she was cast in the series. "Oh my God. When I told him [Pedro], he was so excited. He knows how big of a fan I am of Ryan Murphy. So, I was just over the roof and he was over the roof for me," she said. She recalled, "he was like, 'Oh my God. This is one of the dreams you've had. You finally made it happen.' And I was like, 'Well, yes.'" Lux and Pedro have been very open about their close sibling bond over the years. In July 2025, Lux told People, "We protect each other very much. He protects me a lot, but I guess I'm more under the radar, but I protect him a lot too." The Beauty airs Wednesdays at 9 p.m ET/PT on FX and at 9 p.m. ET on Hulu. This story was originally published by Parade on Feb 13, 2026, where it first appeared in the News section. Add Parade as a Preferred Source by clicking here.


--- [Pedro Pascal - Wikipedia] ---
José Pedro Balmaceda Pascal (Spanish: [xoˈse ˈpeðɾo βalmaˈseða pasˈkal]; born April 2, 1975) is a Chilean and American actor. Known for his portrayals of parental figures, he has starred in television series and blockbuster films. His accolades include an Actor Award, in addition to nominations for a Golden Globe Award and four Primetime Emmy Awards. Time magazine named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2023.
After nearly two decades of taking small roles on stage and television, Pascal's breakout roles came as Oberyn Martell in the fourth season of the HBO fantasy series Game of Thrones (2014) and as Javier Peña in the Netflix crime series Narcos (2015–2017). He achieved international stardom for his leading roles as Din Djarin in the Disney+ science fiction series The Mandalorian (2019–2023) and Joel Miller in the HBO post-apocalyptic drama series The Last of Us (2023–present), earning him a reputation for portraying adoptive father figures. His performance in The Last of Us earned him numerous accolades, including a SAG Award for Outstanding Male Actor in a Drama Series.
In film, Pascal gained further recognition for starring in Wonder Woman 1984 (2020), Gladiator II (2024), Materialists and The Fantastic Four: First Steps (both 2025). His other films include The Great Wall (2016), Kingsman: The Golden Circle (2017), The Equalizer 2 (2018), and Triple Frontier (2019). He also provided voice work for the animated film The Wild Robot (2024).
On stage, Pascal has appeared in various theater productions. He made his Broadway debut as Edmund in a 2019 adaptation of King Lear.
