=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[LET'S DO IT AGAIN Lyrics - TLC | eLyrics.net]
️ Who wrote Let's Do It Again lyrics? Let's Do It Again is written by Jonathan Robinson, Kenneth Edmonds. ️ When was Let's Do It Again released? It is first released on November 15, 1994 as part of TLC's album "CrazySexyCool" which includes 16 tracks in total. This song is the 9th track on this album. ️ Which genre is Let's Do It Again?
URL: https://www.elyrics.net/read/t/tLC-lyrics/let_s-do-it-again-lyrics.html

[Who wrote "Let's Do It Again" by TLC? - Genius]
"Let's Do It Again" by TLC was written by Babyface & Jon-John.
URL: https://genius.com/Tlc-lets-do-it-again-lyrics/q/writer

[‎Let's Do It Again - Song by TLC - Apple Music]
Nov 15, 1994 · Listen to Let's Do It Again by TLC on Apple Music. 1994. Duration: 4:16
URL: https://music.apple.com/us/song/lets-do-it-again/270246728

[Let's Do it Again – Song by TLC]
Nov 15, 1994 — Let's Do it Again. CrazySexyCool (30th Anniversary Edition) · TLC · 15 November 1994. Performing Artists. Babyface. Drum Programming ...
URL: https://music.apple.com/gb/song/lets-do-it-again/1777307825

[CrazySexyCool - Wikipedia]
[19] "Waterfalls" was written by Lopes with Marqueze Etheridge and Organized Noize, who also produced the song. Watkins and Thomas perform the song with Lopes, who also provides a rap. The background vocals are performed by the members of TLC, as well as Debra Killings and Cee-Lo Green.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CrazySexyCool


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [LET'S DO IT AGAIN Lyrics - TLC | eLyrics.net] ---
You sweet young thang you Whatever you do Lord knows you do it nice and easy You keep it nice and long You sexy thang you Whatever it is you want from me you know I'll satisfy Just keep the love at home You give me pleasure Unlike any pleasure that I've felt or ever seen I can't get enough of you in me You know I treasure Each and every waking moment that you spend with me I'm in ecstasy [Chorus] Let's do it again 'Cause I love to make sweet love to you baby Let's do it again I wanna go all night long You precious thang you I love what you do when you do And you do it oh so special I don't see nothin' wrong With nothing 'bout you Whatever it is that makes you feel so very special A baby please please keep it on I so desire Everything about you and I want you to be close to me As close as close could ever be Come light the fire That waits for you and yearns for you that burns inside of me Take me to ecstasy [Chorus] Don't stop please don't stop please please don't stop it (don't you don't you don't you don't you stop it) Don't stop please don't stop please please don't stop it (don't you don't you) Just do it do it do it do it Ooh ahh ooh ahh [Chorus]


--- [Who wrote "Let's Do It Again" by TLC? - Genius] ---
Genius Q&A Who wrote “Let’s Do It Again” by TLC? Community Answer “Let’s Do It Again” by TLC was written by Babyface & Jon-John. 10.1K ViewsRead the Lyrics Sourced by 12 Genius contributors Sign Up and Drop Knowledge Know something we don’t about “Let’s Do It Again” by ? Genius is the ultimate source of music knowledge, created by scholars like you who share facts and insight about the songs and artists they love.


--- [‎Let's Do It Again - Song by TLC - Apple Music] ---
Home New Radio Search Open in Music Let's Do It Again CrazySexyCool TLC November 15, 1994 Preview More By TLC CrazySexyCool CrazySexyCool Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip FanMail FanMail FanMail FanMail 20 20 All That (Theme Song) - Single All That (Theme Song) - Single TLC: Greatest Hits TLC: Greatest Hits Select a country or region Africa, Middle East, and India See All Algeria Angola Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Benin Botswana Cameroun Cape Verde Chad Côte d’Ivoire Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Egypt Eswatini Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea-Bissau India Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kuwait Lebanon Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger (English) Nigeria Oman Qatar Congo, Republic of Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone South Africa Sri Lanka Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic Of Tunisia Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uganda Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Asia Pacific See All Australia Bhutan Cambodia 中国大陆 Fiji 香港 Indonesia (English) 日本 Kazakhstan 대한민국 Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic 澳門 Malaysia (English) Maldives Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nepal New Zealand Papua New Guinea Philippines Singapore Solomon Islands 台灣 Thailand Tonga Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vietnam Europe See All Armenia Österreich Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czechia Denmark Estonia Finland France (Français) Georgia Deutschland Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italia Kosovo Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg (English) Malta Moldova, Republic Of Montenegro Nederland North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal (Português) Romania Россия Serbia Slovakia Slovenia España Sverige Schweiz Türkiye (English) Ukraine United Kingdom Latin America and the Caribbean See All Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina (Español) Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Bolivia (Español) Brasil Virgin Islands, British Cayman Islands Chile (Español) Colombia (Español) Costa Rica (Español) Dominica República Dominicana Ecuador (Español) El Salvador (Español) Grenada Guatemala (Español) Guyana Honduras (Español) Jamaica México Montserrat Nicaragua (Español) Panamá Paraguay (Español) Perú St. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia St. Vincent and The Grenadines Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Turks and Caicos Uruguay (English) Venezuela (Español) The United States and Canada See All Canada (English) Canada (Français) United States Estados Unidos (Español México) الولايات المتحدة США 美国 (简体中文) États-Unis (Français France) 미국 Estados Unidos (Português Brasil) Hoa Kỳ 美國 (繁體中文台灣)


--- [Let's Do it Again – Song by TLC] ---
Home New Radio Search Open in Music Let's Do it Again CrazySexyCool (30th Anniversary Edition) TLC 15 November 1994 Preview More By TLC CrazySexyCool CrazySexyCool FanMail FanMail FanMail FanMail 20 20 TLC (Deluxe) TLC (Deluxe) Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip TLC: Greatest Hits TLC: Greatest Hits Select a country or region Africa, Middle East, and India See All Algeria Angola Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Benin Botswana Cameroun Cape Verde Chad Côte d’Ivoire Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Egypt Eswatini Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea-Bissau India Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kuwait Lebanon Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger (English) Nigeria Oman Qatar Congo, Republic of Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone South Africa Sri Lanka Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic Of Tunisia Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uganda Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Asia Pacific See All Australia Bhutan Cambodia 中国大陆 Fiji 香港 Indonesia (English) 日本 Kazakhstan 대한민국 Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic 澳門 Malaysia (English) Maldives Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nepal New Zealand Papua New Guinea Philippines Singapore Solomon Islands 台灣 Thailand Tonga Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vietnam Europe See All Armenia Österreich Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czechia Denmark Estonia Finland France (Français) Georgia Deutschland Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italia Kosovo Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg (English) Malta Moldova, Republic Of Montenegro Nederland North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal (Português) Romania Россия Serbia Slovakia Slovenia España Sverige Schweiz Türkiye (English) Ukraine United Kingdom Latin America and the Caribbean See All Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina (Español) Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Bolivia (Español) Brasil Virgin Islands, British Cayman Islands Chile (Español) Colombia (Español) Costa Rica (Español) Dominica República Dominicana Ecuador (Español) El Salvador (Español) Grenada Guatemala (Español) Guyana Honduras (Español) Jamaica México Montserrat Nicaragua (Español) Panamá Paraguay (Español) Perú St. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia St. Vincent and The Grenadines Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Turks and Caicos Uruguay (English) Venezuela (Español) The United States and Canada See All Canada (English) Canada (Français) United States Estados Unidos (Español México) الولايات المتحدة США 美国 (简体中文) États-Unis (Français France) 미국 Estados Unidos (Português Brasil) Hoa Kỳ 美國 (繁體中文台灣)


--- [CrazySexyCool - Wikipedia] ---
CrazySexyCool is the second studio album by American girl group TLC, released on November 15, 1994, by LaFace and Arista Records. Following the group's record deal, they released their debut album Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip in 1992 to positive reviews and commercial success. The group began working on a follow-up in 1993 but experienced an unproductive recording process due to personal issues, notably those of member Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes, who was struggling with alcoholism and her volatile relationship with football player Andre Rison. The album's recording lasted until September 1994, with Lopes' role diminished while she was in rehab.
CrazySexyCool saw the group reunite with producers Dallas Austin, Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, and Jermaine Dupri, as well as new collaborators Organized Noize and Chucky Thompson. It also featured contributions from Sean "Puffy" Combs, who helped with the notable hip hop soul sound; the album featured hip hop beats, funk, deep grooves, propulsive rhythms, and smooth production. The album's lyrical content was seen as a departure from the group's debut and was seen as a coming-of-age project which explored themes such as sexuality, romanticism, inexperience, and youthful optimism.
CrazySexyCool was met with critical acclaim and commercial success, peaking at number three on the Billboard 200, a chart on which it stayed for over two years. It has been certified 12-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), making TLC the first girl group in history to be awarded diamond status. It has since sold over 23 million copies worldwide, becoming the best-selling album by an American girl group. It has also been featured on Rolling Stone magazine's list of The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time, included in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die, and was listed as a "New Classic" by Entertainment Weekly in 2008. The album was ranked at number seven on Billboard's list of the best diamond-certified albums of all time.


