=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Paul Frees - Wikipedia]
Frees voiced Disney's Professor Ludwig Von Drake in 18 episodes of the Disney anthology television series, [14] beginning with the first episode of the newly renamed Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color on September 24, 1961.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Frees

[Paul Frees | Voice Actors from the world Wikia | Fandom]
Frees voiced Disney's Professor Ludwig Von Drake in eighteen episodes of the Disney anthology television series, beginning with the first episode of the newly renamed Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color on September 24, 1961.
URL: https://voice-actors-from-the-world.fandom.com/wiki/Paul_Frees

[Paul Frees (1920-1986) - Find a Grave Memorial]
He voiced Disney's 'Professor Ludwig Von Drake' in eighteen episodes of the Disney anthology television series, beginning with the first episode of the newly renamed "Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color" on September 24, 1961. The character also appeared on many Disneyland Records.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/6482730/paul-frees

[Ludwig Von Drake - D23]
Ludwig Von Drake Donald Duck's erudite, though eccentric, uncle who emceed several television shows, debuting in the first show of Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color in 1961: An Adventure in Color. He appeared in a total of 18 shows. The voice was supplied by Paul Frees.
URL: https://d23.com/a-to-z/ludwig-von-drake/

[Paul Frees]
Some of Paul Frees' most memorable voices were for various Disney projects. Frees voiced Disney's Professor Ludwig Von Drake in eighteen episodes of the Disney ...
URL: https://knight-rider.fandom.com/wiki/Paul_Frees


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Paul Frees - Wikipedia] ---
Solomon Hersh Frees (June 22, 1920 – November 2, 1986), better known as Paul Frees, was an American actor, comedian, impressionist, and vaudevillian. He is known for his work on Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Walter Lantz, Rankin/Bass and Walt Disney theatrical cartoons during the Golden Age of Animation, and for providing the voice of Boris Badenov in The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show. Frees was sometimes known as "The Man of a Thousand Voices", an appellation more commonly bestowed on Mel Blanc.




--- [Paul Frees | Voice Actors from the world Wikia | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Paul Frees (1920-1986) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Voice and Character Actor. He is probably best remembered for his cartoon work with the Walt Disney Company, Jay Ward Productions, and Rankin/Bass Productions. He possessed an unusually wide four-octave voice range that would enable him to voice everything from the thundering basso profundo of the unseen 'Ghost Host' in the Haunted Mansion attraction at Disneyland in California and at Walt Disney World in Florida, to the squeaky voice of the 'Little Green Sprout' in the Green Giant vegetable commercials. Born Solomon Hersh Frees in Chicago, Illinois, he first appeared on vaudeville in the 1930s as an impressionist under the name Buddy Green. In 1942, he began his acting career and remained active until his death in 1986. During that time, he was involved in more than 250 films, cartoons, and television appearances, which often went uncredited like many other voice actors. His early radio career was cut short when he was drafted into the U.S. Army during World War II, where he fought at Normandy, France, on D-Day, June 6, 1944. Wounded in action, he returned to the U.S. for a year of recuperation. After the war, he attended the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles, California, but dropped out and returned to radio work when his first wife's health failed. He appeared frequently on Hollywood radio series, including "Escape," playing lead roles and alternating with actor William Conrad as the opening announcer of "Suspense" in the late 1940s. He also had parts on "Gunsmoke" and "Crime Classics." One of his few starring roles in this medium was as 'Jethro Dumont' in the 1949 series "The Green Lama," as well as a syndicated anthology series "The Player," in which he narrated and played all of the parts. In the 1950s and into the 1970s, he was often called upon to re-loop the dialogue of other actors, often to correct for foreign accents, lack of English proficiency, or poor line readings by non-professionals. These dubs extended from a few lines to entire roles. This can be noticed rather clearly in the film "Midway" (1976) where he reads for actor Toshiro Mifune's performance as Admiral Yamamoto, or in the film "Some Like It Hot" (1959) in which he provides the voice of funeral director 'Mozzarella' as well as much of the falsetto voice for actor Tony Curtis' female character 'Josephine'. He also dubbed the entire role of 'Eddie' in the Disney film "The Ugly Dachshund" (1966), replacing actor Dick Wessel, who had died of a sudden heart attack after completion of the principal photography. He also dubbed actor Humphrey Bogart in his final film "The Harder They Fall" (1956), since he was suffering at the time esophageal cancer and could barely be heard in some takes. He also voiced the cars in the comedy "The Great Race" (1965). Some of his most memorable voices were for various Disney projects. He voiced Disney's 'Professor Ludwig Von Drake' in eighteen episodes of the Disney anthology television series, beginning with the first episode of the newly renamed "Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color" on September 24, 1961. The character also appeared on many Disneyland Records. Von Drake's introductory cartoon, "An Adventure in Color," featured "The Spectrum Song," which he sang as 'Von Drake.' He was a regular presence in Jay Ward cartoons, providing the voices of 'Boris Badenov' (from "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show"), 'Inspector Fenwick' (from "Dudley Do-Right," impersonating Eric Blore), 'Ape' (impersonating Ronald Colman), 'District Commissioner Alistair' and 'Weevil Plumtree' in "George of the Jungle," 'Baron Otto Matic' in "Tom Slick," 'Fred' in "Super Chicken," and the "Hoppity Hooper" narrator, among numerous others. For Rankin/Bass cartoons, he voiced the traffic cop, ticket-taker, and Santa Claus in "Frosty the Snowman" (1969) and the central villain, 'Burgermeister Meisterburger,' and his assistant 'Grimsley' in "Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town" (1970). He was several voices, including 'Eon the Terrible' in "Rudolph's Shiny New Year" (1976). In 1968, he appeared as 'Captain Jones' in the Thanksgiving special "The Mouse on the Mayflower," and that Christmas he appeared as the father of the Drummer Boy, Ali, and as the three Wise Men in "The Little Drummer Boy." He provided the voices for several J. R. R. Tolkien characters (most notably the dwarf 'Bombur') in Rankin/Bass animated versions of "The Hobbit" (1977) and "The Return of the King" (1980). He also voiced King Haggard's wizard 'Mabruk' in "The Last Unicorn" (1982) and provided several voices for the "Jackson Five" cartoon series between 1971 and 1973. In television commercials, he was the voice of the 'Pillsbury Doughboy.' the 7-Up bird 'Fresh-Up Freddie', Froot Loops spokesbird 'Toucan Sam' (previously voiced by Mel Blanc, later voiced by Maurice LaMarche), 'Boo-Berry' in the series of monster cereal commercials, and the 'Little Green Sprout,' who called out to the Jolly Green Giant, "Hey, Green Giant, what's new besides ho-ho-ho?" He narrated many live action films and television series, including "Naked City" (1958 to 1963) and provided the voice of the eccentric billionaire 'John Beresford Tipton' on the dramatic CBS television series "The Millionaire" (1955 to 1960). He was the narrator at the beginning of the film "The Disorderly Orderly" (1964) starring actor Jerry Lewis. He also looped an actor's voice in the film "The Ladies Man" (1961) starring Jerry Lewis. On rare occasions, he appeared on camera, usually in minor roles. He played the Orson Welles sound-alike radio reporter in "The War of the Worlds" (1953), where he is seen dictating into a tape recorder as the military prepares the atomic bomb for use against the invading Martians. In 1954, he appeared in the film noir classic "Suddenly," which starred Frank Sinatra and Sterling Hayden. He played a scientist in "The Thing from Another World" (1982), a death-row priest in "A Place in the Sun" (1951), and French fur trader 'McMasters' in "The Big Sky" (1952). He also played the apocalyptic voice for the talking rings in "The Time Machine" (1960), the voice of a war correspondent interviewing Army General George Patton while riding his horse in "Patton" (1970), and also as a member of Patton's staff. He also did various voice-overs for other actors, including the voice for the sheik hosting a troop review for Patton, as well as several others. His voice also appears in "Tora! Tora! Tora!" (1970) as the English-language voice of the Japanese Ambassador to the United States and the opening voice-over narration for "Doc Savage" (1975). He also did the final ending narration after the destruction of the Earth in "Beneath the Planet of the Apes" (1970). He died of a sudden heart attack at the age of 66. For his contributions to the Disney legacy, he was honored posthumously as a Disney Legend on October 9, 2006. Voice and Character Actor. He is probably best remembered for his cartoon work with the Walt Disney Company, Jay Ward Productions, and Rankin/Bass Productions. He possessed an unusually wide four-octave voice range that would enable him to voice everything from the thundering basso profundo of the unseen 'Ghost Host' in the Haunted Mansion attraction at Disneyland in California and at Walt Disney World in Florida, to the squeaky voice of the 'Little Green Sprout' in the Green Giant vegetable commercials. Born Solomon Hersh Frees in Chicago, Illinois, he first appeared on vaudeville in the 1930s as an impressionist under the name Buddy Green. In 1942, he began his acting career and remained active until his death in 1986. During that time, he was involved in more than 250 films, cartoons, and television appearances, which often went uncredited like many other voice actors. His early radio career was cut short when he was drafted into the U.S. Army during World War II, where he fought at Normandy, France, on D-Day, June 6, 1944. Wounded in action, he returned to the U.S. for a year of recuperation. After the war, he attended the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles, California, but dropped out and returned to radio work when his first wife's health failed. He appeared frequently on Hollywood radio series, including "Escape," playing lead roles and alternating with actor William Conrad as the opening announcer of "Suspense" in the late 1940s. He also had parts on "Gunsmoke" and "Crime Classics." One of his few starring roles in this medium was as 'Jethro Dumont' in the 1949 series "The Green Lama," as well as a syndicated anthology series "The Player," in which he narrated and played all of the parts. In the 1950s and into the 1970s, he was often called upon to re-loop the dialogue of other actors, often to correct for foreign accents, lack of English proficiency, or poor line readings by non-professionals. These dubs extended from a few lines to entire roles. This can be noticed rather clearly in the film "Midway" (1976) where he reads for actor Toshiro Mifune's performance as Admiral Yamamoto, or in the film "Some Like It Hot" (1959) in which he provides the voice of funeral director 'Mozzarella' as well as much of the falsetto voice for actor Tony Curtis' female character 'Josephine'. He also dubbed the entire role of 'Eddie' in the Disney film "The Ugly Dachshund" (1966), replacing actor Dick Wessel, who had died of a sudden heart attack after completion of the principal photography. He also dubbed actor Humphrey Bogart in his final film "The Harder They Fall" (1956), since he was suffering at the time esophageal cancer and could barely be heard in some takes. He also voiced the cars in the comedy "The Great Race" (1965). Some of his most memorable voices were for various Disney projects. He voiced Disney's 'Professor Ludwig Von Drake' in eighteen episodes of the Disney anthology television series, beginning with the first episode of the newly renamed "Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color" on September 24, 1961. The character also appeared on many Disneyland Records. Von Drake's introductory cartoon, "An Adventure in Color," featured "The Spectrum Song," which he sang as 'Von Drake.' He was a regular presence in Jay Ward cartoons, providing the voices of 'Boris Badenov' (from "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show"), 'Inspector Fenwick' (from "Dudley Do-Right," impersonating Eric Blore), 'Ape' (impersonating Ronald Colman), 'District Commissioner Alistair' and 'Weevil Plumtree' in "George of the Jungle," 'Baron Otto Matic' in "Tom Slick," 'Fred' in "Super Chicken," and the "Hoppity Hooper" narrator, among numerous others. For Rankin/Bass cartoons, he voiced the traffic cop, ticket-taker, and Santa Claus in "Frosty the Snowman" (1969) and the central villain, 'Burgermeister Meisterburger,' and his assistant 'Grimsley' in "Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town" (1970). He was several voices, including 'Eon the Terrible' in "Rudolph's Shiny New Year" (1976). In 1968, he appeared as 'Captain Jones' in the Thanksgiving special "The Mouse on the Mayflower," and that Christmas he appeared as the father of the Drummer Boy, Ali, and as the three Wise Men in "The Little Drummer Boy." He provided the voices for several J. R. R. Tolkien characters (most notably the dwarf 'Bombur') in Rankin/Bass animated versions of "The Hobbit" (1977) and "The Return of the King" (1980). He also voiced King Haggard's wizard 'Mabruk' in "The Last Unicorn" (1982) and provided several voices for the "Jackson Five" cartoon series between 1971 and 1973. In television commercials, he was the voice of the 'Pillsbury Doughboy.' the 7-Up bird 'Fresh-Up Freddie', Froot Loops spokesbird 'Toucan Sam' (previously voiced by Mel Blanc, later voiced by Maurice LaMarche), 'Boo-Berry' in the series of monster cereal commercials, and the 'Little Green Sprout,' who called out to the Jolly Green Giant, "Hey, Green Giant, what's new besides ho-ho-ho?" He narrated many live action films and television series, including "Naked City" (1958 to 1963) and provided the voice of the eccentric billionaire 'John Beresford Tipton' on the dramatic CBS television series "The Millionaire" (1955 to 1960). He was the narrator at the beginning of the film "The Disorderly Orderly" (1964) starring actor Jerry Lewis. He also looped an actor's voice in the film "The Ladies Man" (1961) starring Jerry Lewis. On rare occasions, he appeared on camera, usually in minor roles. He played the Orson Welles sound-alike radio reporter in "The War of the Worlds" (1953), where he is seen dictating into a tape recorder as the military prepares the atomic bomb for use against the invading Martians. In 1954, he appeared in the film noir classic "Suddenly," which starred Frank Sinatra and Sterling Hayden. He played a scientist in "The Thing from Another World" (1982), a death-row priest in "A Place in the Sun" (1951), and French fur trader 'McMasters' in "The Big Sky" (1952). He also played the apocalyptic voice for the talking rings in "The Time Machine" (1960), the voice of a war correspondent interviewing Army General George Patton while riding his horse in "Patton" (1970), and also as a member of Patton's staff. He also did various voice-overs for other actors, including the voice for the sheik hosting a troop review for Patton, as well as several others. His voice also appears in "Tora! Tora! Tora!" (1970) as the English-language voice of the Japanese Ambassador to the United States and the opening voice-over narration for "Doc Savage" (1975). He also did the final ending narration after the destruction of the Earth in "Beneath the Planet of the Apes" (1970). He died of a sudden heart attack at the age of 66. For his contributions to the Disney legacy, he was honored posthumously as a Disney Legend on October 9, 2006. Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Ludwig Von Drake - D23] ---
Ludwig Von Drake Donald Duck’s erudite, though eccentric, uncle who emceed several television shows, debuting in the first show of Walt Disney’s Wonderful World of Color in 1961: An Adventure in Color. He appeared in a total of 18 shows. The voice was supplied by Paul Frees.


--- [Paul Frees] ---
| Knight Rider Actor | | | Paul Frees | | | Name | Solomon Hersh "Paul" Frees | | Birth Date | June 22, 1920 | | Death Date | November 2, 1986 | | Location | Tiburon, California | Paul Frees (June 22, 1920 - November 2, 1986) was an American voice actor and character actor. Biography[] Born Solomon Hersh Frees in Chicago, he began his acting career in 1942, and remained active for over forty years. During this time, he was involved in more than 250 films, cartoons, and TV appearances; like many voice actors, his appearances were often uncredited. Frees' early radio career was cut short when he was drafted into World War II where he was at Normandy on D-Day. He was wounded in action and was returned to the United States for a year of recuperation. He attended the Chouinard Art Institute under the G.I. Bill. His first wife's failing health forced him to drop out and return to radio work. He appeared frequently on such Hollywood radio series, including Escape, playing lead roles and alternating with William Conrad as the opening voice, Suspense as the opening announcer in the late 1940s, and parts on Gunsmoke and Crime Classics. One of his few starring roles in this medium was as Jethro Dumont in the 1949 series The Green Lama, as well as a syndicated anthology series The Player, in which Frees narrated and played all of the parts. Frees was often called upon in the 1950s and 1960s to "re-loop" the dialogue of other actors, often to correct for foreign accents, lack of English proficiency, or poor line readings by non-professionals. These dubs extended from a few lines to entire roles. This can be noticed rather clearly in the film Midway where Frees reads for Toshiro Mifune's performance as Admiral Yamamoto. Frees also dubbed the entire role of Eddie in the Disney film The Ugly Dachshund, replacing actor Dick Wessel, who had died of a sudden heart attack after completion of principal photography. Unlike many voice actors who did most of their work for one studio, Frees spent much of his career working with at least nine of the major animation production companies of the 20th century: Walt Disney Studios, Walter Lantz Studios, UPA, Hanna-Barbera, Filmation, MGM Studios, DePatie-Freleng Enterprises, Jay Ward Productions and Rankin/Bass. Frees was active until his sudden death at 66 from heart failure on November 2, 1986. He was living in Tiburon, California at the time. His ashes were scattered at sea. There had been homages to him done by voice actor Corey Burton who happened to have matched the voices he used for some characters. Career highlights[] Disney[] Some of Paul Frees' most memorable voices were for various Disney projects. Frees voiced Disney's Professor Ludwig Von Drake in eighteen episodes of the Disney anthology television series,[1] beginning with the first episode of the newly-renamed Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color on September 24, 1961. The character also appeared on many Disneyland Records. Von Drake's introductory cartoon, An Adventure in Color, featured The Spectrum Song, sung by Frees as Von Drake. A different Frees recording of this song appeared on a children's record, and was later reissued on CD.[2] Frees narrated a number of Disney cartoons, including the Disney educational short film Donald in Mathmagic Land. This short originally aired in the same television episode as Von Drake's first appearance. Frees also provided voices for numerous characters at Disney parks, including the unseen "Ghost Host" in the Haunted Mansion attraction at Disneyland and Walt Disney World, and several audio-animatronic pirates, including the Auctioneer, in the Pirates of the Caribbean ride. Disney eventually issued limited edition compact discs commemorating the two rides, featuring outtakes and unused audio tracks by Frees and others. Frees also provided narration for the Tomorrowland attraction Adventure Thru Innerspace (1967-1985). Audio clips from the attractions in Frees' distinctive voice have even appeared in fireworks shows at Disneyland. A computer-animated singing bust in Frees' likeness appeared in the 2003 film The Haunted Mansion as an homage. Similarly, audio recordings of Frees from the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction can be heard in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End in a homage to the ride. Frees also had a small live action role for Disney in the 1959 film The Shaggy Dog, playing Dr. Galvin, a military psychiatrist who attempts to understand why Mr. Daniels believes a shaggy dog can uncover a spy ring. His other Disney credits, most of them narration for segments of the Disney anthology television series, include the following: - The "Man in Space" series of shows (TV, 1954) - From Aesop to Hans Christian Andersen (TV, 1955) - The Nine Lives of Elfego Baca (TV miniseries, 1958) - Tales of Texas John Slaughter (TV miniseries, 1958) - The Shaggy Dog (film, 1959) - The Absent-Minded Professor (film, 1961) - Moochie of Pop Warner Football (TV, 1960) - The Monkey's Uncle (film, 1965) For his contributions to the Disney legacy, Frees was honored posthumously as a Disney Legend on October 9, 2006.[3] Jay Ward Productions[] Frees was a regular presence in Jay Ward cartoons, providing the voices of Boris Badenov, Inspector Fenwick (from Dudley Do-Right), Ape in George of the Jungle and the Hoppity Hooper narrator, among numerous others. Rankin/Bass[] Frees is well-remembered for many characters in Rankin/Bass cartoons and stop-motion animated TV specials, including the central villain Burgermeister Meisterburger and his assistant Grimsby in Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town (1970). He was also the traffic cop, ticket-taker, and Santa Claus in Frosty the Snowman in 1969. He was several voices, including Eon the Terrible, in Rudolph's Shiny New Year in 1976. In 1968, he appeared as Captain Jones in the Thanksgiving special The Mouse On The Mayflower, and that Christmas he appeared as the father of the Drummer Boy, Ali, and as the three Wise Men in The Little Drummer Boy. He provided the voices for several J. R. R. Tolkien characters (most notably the dwarf Bombur) in Rankin/Bass animated versions of The Hobbit and The Return of the King. He also voiced King Haggard's wizard Mabruk in The Last Unicorn and provided several voices for the Jackson Five cartoon series between 1971 and 1973. Other voice work[] Some of Paul's earliest work was voicing many characters in Tex Avery's shorts for MGM Studios such as the recurring wolf character who was previously voiced by Frank Graham, the cat in The Cat Who Hated People, and the mouse in King Size Canary. Frees voiced all characters, except the lead role, in the US versions of Belvision's The Adventures of Tintin cartoons, based on the books by Hergé. In the 1956 Cinemascope Tom and Jerry (MGM) cartoon, Blue Cat Blues, he was Jerry's voice who narrated the short, he had also voiced Jerry's cousin Muscles in Jerry's Cousin five years earlier. For the 1962 Christmas special Mr. Magoo's Christmas Carol, produced by UPA, Paul Frees voiced several characters, including Fezziwig, the Charity Man, two of the opportunists who steal from the dead man (Eyepatch Man and Tall Tophat Man)[4] and Mister Magoo's Broadway theatre director. He subsequently provided numerous voices for further cartoons in the series that followed, The Famous Adventures of Mr. Magoo. Frees provided the voices of both John Lennon and George Harrison in the 1965 The Beatles cartoon series, and of The Thing in the 1967 series Fantastic Four. He played several roles--narrator, Chief of State, the judges and the bailiff--in the George Lucas / John Korty animated film, Twice Upon a Time. In TV commercials, he was the voice of the Pillsbury Doughboy, the 7-Up bird Fresh-Up Freddie, Froot Loops spokesbird Toucan Sam (previously voiced by Mel Blanc, later voiced by Maurice LaMarche), and the Little Green Sprout, who called out to the Jolly Green Giant, "Hey, Green Giant, what's new besides ho-ho-ho?" Frees narrated many live action movies and television series, including Naked City (1958-1963). Frees also provided the voice of the eccentric billionaire John Beresford Tipton, always seated in his chair with his back to the viewer while talking to his employee Michael Anthony (fellow voice-artist Marvin Miller), on the dramatic series The Millionaire. He was the narrator at the beginning of the movie "[The Disorderly Orderly]" starring Jerry Lewis. He also "[looped]" an actors voice in "[The Ladies Man]" also starring Jerry Lewis. He dubbed many Italian actors in Spaghetti Westerns, most notably Gian Maria Volonte's characters in A Fistful of Dollars and For a Few Dollars More, the alcoholic Union captain (portrayed by Italian actor Aldo Giuffrè) in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, and Gabriele Ferzetti's Mr. Morton character in Once Upon a Time in the West. Frees had a wide range of other roles, usually heard but not seen, and frequently without screen credit. The resonance of his natural voice was similar to that of Orson Welles, and he performed a Welles impression several times. Some highlights of his voice work are as follows: - The narrator of the documentary about J. Robert Oppenheimer, The Day After Trinity - The Peter Lorre voice in the Spike Jones version of the song My Old Flame. When talking softly, the voice sounds much like Lorre. When the character segués into a manic rant for a few lines, the voice anticipates the Ludwig von Drake characterization. - The Orson Welles soundalike narrator in Stan Freberg Presents The United States of America Vol. 1. When Vol. 2 came out after his death, he was replaced by Corey Burton. - Another Orson Welles sound-alike as the voice of the aliens in Earth vs. the Flying Saucers - Yet again, as an Orson Welles soundalike narrator in the 1967 film The St. Valentines Day Massacre. - The uncredited voice of the sentient supercomputer Colossus in the movie Colossus: The Forbin Project. - Narrator of the pre-show for Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln at the Illinois Pavilion of the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair. The exhibit was produced by Disney, and later moved to Disneyland. - The shrouded figure of "Death" (another near-Welles characterization) in the Woody Allen movie Love and Death. - The narration for the spoof short film Hardware Wars (1977), which was styled as a mock movie trailer. - Voice of KARR in "K.I.T.T. vs. K.A.R.R." - a 3rd season episode of Knight Rider. - Voice of "Josephine" (the female persona of Tony Curtis' character Joe) in the Billy Wilder film Some Like it Hot.[5] - The voice of Dr. Who in the English language version of King Kong Escapes. - The voices of "Antoine" and "Alecto" in the English language version of Atoll K (aka Utopia). - The voice of the hermit crab "Crusty" in The Incredible Mr. Limpet, a Warner Brothers feature that mixed live action with animation. - Intro voice for Bradbury 13, a series of thirteen radio dramas featuring Ray Bradbury short stories, originally produced for National Public Radio by Michael McDonough at Brigham Young University, 1984. - Credited with singing "Dark Town Strutters Ball" in the 1971 film The Abominable Dr. Phibes. Other credits[] Although Frees is primarily known for his voice work (like Mel Blanc, he was known in the industry as "The Man of a Thousand Voices"), he was also a songwriter and screenwriter, his major work being the little-seen 1960 film The Beatniks, a Reefer Madness-esque screed against the then-rising Beatnik counterculture. In 1992, the film was "riffed" on an episode of Mystery Science Theatre 3000. On rare occasions, Frees appeared on camera in minor roles. He played a scientist in The Thing from Another World, a death-row priest in A Place In The Sun, and French fur trader McMasters in The Big Sky. In Jet Pilot, Frees plays a menacing Soviet officer whose job is to watchdog pilot Janet Leigh, but instead manages to eject himself out of a parked jet, enabling Leigh to rescue John Wayne and fly back to the West. He also had an uncredited role as a war correspondent interviewing George C. Scott as Patton and also as a member of Patton's staff. More significantly, he played the Orson Welles soundalike radio reporter in The War of the Worlds, where he is seen dictating into a tape recorder as the military prepares the atomic bomb for use against the invading Martians. Memorably, Frees' character says that the recording is being made for "future history...if any." The War of the Worlds producer George Pál put Frees to work again in the 1960 fantasy film Atlantis, the Lost Continent and doing the opening voice-over narration for his 1975 Doc Savage film. Frees provided the apocalyptic voices of the "talking rings" in George Pál's 1960 film The Time Machine, in which he explains the ultimate fate of humanity and the origin of the Morlocks and Eloi. Further reading[] - Battistini, Pete, "American Top 40 with Casey Kasem (The 1970s)." Authorhouse.com, January 31, 2005. ISBN 1-4184-1070-5. Includes information and photograph of the MGM Records LP "Paul Frees and the Poster People." - Frees, Paul, The Writings of Paul Frees. (2004) (Albany: BearManor Media) ISBN 1-59393-011-9 - Ohmart, Ben. Welcome ... Foolish Mortals - The Life & Voices of Paul Frees. (2004) (Albany: BearManor Media) ISBN 1-59393-004-6. Filled with rare photos & interviews.
