=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[4/16/2002, Franklin Institute Laureates Symposium - Almanac ...]
Franklin Institute Laureates Symposium On April 24-25 the University will have the pleasure of joining with the Franklin Institute in bringing to our campus a series of events in honor of the 2002 Benjamin Franklin Medals and Bower Awards in Science and Business.
URL: https://almanac.upenn.edu/archive/v48/n30/Franklin.html

[Franklin Institute Awards]
List of laureates ; 2002, Alexandra Navrotsky, Earth Science ; 2002, Lucy Suchman, Computer and Cognitive Science ; 2003, Bishnu S. Atal, Electrical Engineering.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franklin_Institute_Awards

[Judea Pearl : Awards | Carnegie Corporation of New York]
A member of the National Academy of Engineering and a founding fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, Pearl has won numerous prizes, including the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science.
URL: https://www.carnegie.org/awards/honoree/judea-pearl/

[Aravind Joshi - Wikipedia]
Aravind Joshi was the Henry Salvatori Professor of Computer and Cognitive Science in the computer science department of the University of Pennsylvania. Joshi defined the treeadjoining grammar formalism which is often used in computational linguistics and natural...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aravind_Joshi

[the 2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in computer and cognitive science ...]
by B Adelson · 2003 · Cited by 7 — ... 2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in computer and cognitive science presented to Lucy Suchman☆ ... The 1999 Franklin Institute Awards, J. Franklin Inst. 336 (8) (1999) ...
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0016003203000462


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [4/16/2002, Franklin Institute Laureates Symposium - Almanac ...] ---
• Honoring Dr. Sumio Iijima (2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal of Physics); The Advancing Frontier of Carbon Nanotubes or Carbon Nanotubes and Beyond. Auditorium LRSM, Wednesday, April 24, 8:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Chaired by Dr. Elias Burstein, Mary Amanda Wood Professor of Physics Emeritus, the program includes Dr. Iijima, whose talk will be introduced by Nobel Laureate Leo Esaki, Marvin L. Cohen, of UC Berkeley; John E. Fischer, Materials Science; and Millie S. Dresselhaus, MIT. Dr. Iijima, professor of materials science and engineering at Meijo University, is being honored "For the discovery and elucidation of the atomic structure and helical character of multi-wall and single-wall carbon nanotubes, which have had an enormous impact on the rapidly growing condensed matter and materials science field of nanoscale science and electronics." Please respond with your plans to attend to Kathy Kramer at Kramer@lrsm.upenn.edu. • Honoring Dr. Lucy Suchman (2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science); Refiguring Sociomaterial Relations at the Interface. University of Pennsylvania Museum Academic Wing, Room 345, Wednesday, April 24, 10 a.m.-noon. Chaired by Dr. Gregory P. Urban, Department of Anthropology. Dr. Suchman, professor of sociology at Cartmel College at Lancaster University in the United Kingdom, is being honored " For her fundamental contributions to ethnographic analysis, conversational analysis and Participatory Design techniques for the development of interactive computer systems. Her techniques for system development have created a paradigm change in the way interactive systems are designed." Please respond with your plans to attend to Ronnie (Veronica) Kent at vkent@sas.upenn.edu. • Honoring Dr. Mary Dell Chilton (2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Life Science); Agrobacterium and the Molecular Basis of Crop Improvement. 10 Leidy Labs, Wednesday, April 24, 1-4 p.m. Chaired by Dr. Andrew N. Binns, Carolyn Hoff Lynch Professor and Chair, Department of Biology, the program includes Dr. Chilton along with Dr. Paul J. J. Hooykaas, Institute of Molecular Plant Sciences Clusius Laboratory, University of Leiden; and Dr. Ingo Potrykus, Swiss Federaal Institute of Technology. Dr. Chilton of Syngenta Biotechnolgy is being honored "For her key discoveries and wide ranging contributions in the development of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens Ti plasmid as a major vector system for plant genetic engineering." Please respond with your plans to attend to Pauline Saribas at psaribas@sas.upenn.edu. • Honoring Dr. John W. Cahn (2002 Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science) and Dr. Alexandra Navrotsky (2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Earth Science). Amado Recital Hall, Irvine Auditorium, Thursday, April 25, 9 a.m.-2 p.m. Chaired by Dr. Takeshi Egami, Professor and Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, the program includes Drs. Cahn and Navrotsky along with Dr. W. Craig Carter, MIT; Dr. Juraj Mazlan, University of California, Davis; Dr. Russel J. Composto, Materials Science and Engineering; and Dr. Peter Davies, Director, Institute for Medicine and Engineering (IME). Dr. Cahn of the National Institute of Standards and Technology is being honored " For profound contributions to the understanding of the thermodynamics and kinetics of phase transformations. His lifelong dedication to understanding materials has inspired generations of scientists and engineers to develop new materials based on his groundbreaking theories." Dr. Navrotsky of the University of California at Davis is being honored "For her wide spectrum of accomplishments in crystal chemistry that have importantly contributed to the fields of bonding energies, ceramics and materials research, chemical equilibria, geology, mantle petrology and thermodynamics. For example, her findings have established, convincingly, the identity of materials at hundreds of kilometers of depth in the Earth that otherwise are inaccessible to direct observation." Please respond with your plans to attend to Pat Overend at poverend@soll.lrsm.upenn.edu. For complete information about this seminar see www.seas.upenn.edu/mse/bower_franklin_02.html.


--- [Franklin Institute Awards] ---
The Franklin Institute Awards (or Benjamin Franklin Medal) is an American science and engineering award presented by the Franklin Institute, a science museum in Philadelphia. The Franklin Institute awards comprises the Benjamin Franklin Medals in seven areas of science and engineering, the Bower Awards and Prize for Achievement in Science, and the Bower Award for Business Leadership. Since 1824, the institute has recognized "world-changing scientists, engineers, inventors, and industrialists—all of whom reflect Benjamin Franklin's spirit of curiosity, ingenuity, and innovation". Some of the noted past laureates include Nikola Tesla, Thomas Edison, Marie Curie, Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Stephen Hawking.  Some of the 21st century laureates of the institute awards are Bill Gates, James P. Allison, Indra Nooyi, Jane Goodall, Elizabeth Blackburn, George Church, Robert S. Langer, and Alex Gorsky.


--- [Judea Pearl : Awards | Carnegie Corporation of New York] ---
Judea Pearl was born in 1936 into a Jewish family from Poland in the town of Bnei Brak, near Tel Aviv, which was under British mandate at the time. Pearl credits his interest in science to growing up in the newly independent state of Israel, where his generation was taught by “great scientists” who had been forced to flee Nazi Germany and who saw their young students as “the embodiment of their academic and scientific dreams.” Following Pearl’s army service, he joined a kibbutz, but left the agrarian communal life to study electrical engineering at the Technion, Israel’s prestigious technical institute. Pearl moved to the United States in 1960. Arriving with just $56 in his pocket, he was determined to pursue his graduate school studies. To cover his tuition, Pearl started working on computer memory at the RCA David Sarnoff Research Laboratories in Princeton, New Jersey. It was the early days of computer research. He received a master’s degree in physics from Rutgers University and a PhD from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. (Scientists would later use the term “Pearl vortex” to refer to the type of superconducting current that was first described by Pearl when he was a graduate student.) After completing his studies, Pearl worked on superconductive parametric and storage devices at RCA Laboratories and at the California-based Electronic Memories, Inc. When the development of large-scale semiconductor memories left Pearl jobless, he decided to pursue his other passion, artificial intelligence, which he calls “a metaphor for capturing human intuition.” He joined the faculty of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1970. As professor of computer science and statistics, director of the Cognitive Systems Laboratory, and, since his retirement in 1994, emeritus professor of computer science at UCLA, he published an extensive body of work, including the landmark books Heuristics (1984), Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems (1988), and Causality (2000; 2009). Pearl is known for his transformative contributions to artificial intelligence, human reasoning, and the philosophy of science. His work on probability and causality has had an impact on fields as varied as medicine and political science, and is credited, for example, with making possible the voice recognition devices that are widely used today. A member of the National Academy of Engineering and a founding fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, Pearl has won numerous prizes, including the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science. In 2011, Pearl was awarded the Turing Award, considered the Nobel Prize of the computing world, “for his fundamental contributions to artificial intelligence through the development of a calculus for probabilistic and causal reasoning.” Pearl is also the president of the Daniel Pearl Foundation, which preserves the legacy of his son, Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was killed by terrorists in Pakistan in 2002. The foundation aims to promote cross-cultural dialogue and understanding, counter intolerance, support responsible journalism, and inspire unity through music worldwide. https://twitter.com/yudapearl


--- [Aravind Joshi - Wikipedia] ---
Aravind Krishna Joshi (August 5, 1929 – December 31, 2017) was the Henry Salvatori Professor of Computer and Cognitive Science in the computer science department of the University of Pennsylvania. Joshi defined the tree-adjoining grammar formalism which is often used in computational linguistics and natural language processing.
Joshi studied at Pune University and the Indian Institute of Science, where he was awarded a BE in electrical engineering and a DIISc in communication engineering respectively. Joshi's graduate work was done in the electrical engineering department at the University of Pennsylvania, and he was awarded his PhD in 1960. He became a professor at Penn and was the co-founder and co-director of the Institute for Research in Cognitive Science.




--- [the 2002 Benjamin Franklin Medal in computer and cognitive science ...] ---
No content
