=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nello Formisano - Wikipedia]
Nello Formisano Nello Formisano Aniello "Nello" Formisano (born 10 June 1954 [1]) is an Italian politician and lawyer. Born in Torre del Greco, Province of Naples, Formisano graduated in law and has been also a SIAE representative.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nello_Formisano

[Aniello Formisano (born June 10, 1954), Italian politician ...]
Aniello Formisano is an Italian politician. Membership Born in Torre del Greco, Province of Naples, he graduated in law and became a leading member of the Italy of Values party, the political movement of Antonio Di Pietro.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/aniello.formisano/2586003

[Aniello Formisano / Deputati / Camera dei deputati - Portale ...]
Con questo portale la Camera dei deputati si è dotata di una piattaforma di pubblicazione unica, stabile e condivisa della documentazione e delle informazioni sulla sua attività, a partire dalla I Legislatura del Parlamento sabaudo del 1848 fino alla legislatura che precede quella in corso. In occasione del 150° anniversario dell'Unità d'Italia è stato avviato un intervento complessivo di ...
URL: https://storia.camera.it/deputato/aniello-formisano-19540610

[Nello Formisano - Wikiwand]
Italian politician / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Aniello "Nello" Formisano (born 10 June 1954 [1]) is an Italian politician and lawyer.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Nello_Formisano

[Aniello Formisano - Wikidata]
image Aniello Formisano.jpg 176 × 294; 17 KB 0 references sex or gender male 1 reference country of citizenship Italy 1 reference name in native language Aniello Formisano(Italian) 0 references given name Nello 0 references family name Formisano 1 reference based on heuristic inferred from person's full name date of birth 10 June 1954 1 ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q3617472


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nello Formisano - Wikipedia] ---
Aniello "Nello" Formisano (born 10 June 1954)  is an Italian politician and lawyer.
Born in Torre del Greco, Province of Naples, Formisano graduated in law and has been also a SIAE representative.
In the general election of 2001 he was elected senator in the uninominal constituency "Portici-San Giorgio" (in Campania) as member of The Daisy (with the support of The Olive Tree). In 2005 he left The Daisy to join the Italy of Values (IdV) party, led by Antonio Di Pietro.
In the general elections of 2006 he was re-elected to the Senate among the ranks of the Democrats of the Left (DS) in the Umbria region (thanks to an agreement between IdV and DS).
In the 2008 general elections he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, in the "Campania 1" constituency.
In 2012, following strong internal controversy within the IdV, Formisano and Massimo Donadi left the party and founded Rights and Freedom. This movement then merged into the Democratic Centre, a new centrist party founded by Bruno Tabacci, to which Donadi and Formisano also belong. In the general election of 2013 he was again candidate to the Chamber of Deputies, and he was re-elected. On 30 October 2014 Formisano decided to join the Italy of Values again.
Following the decision of IdV to support the re-candidacy of Luigi de Magistris as mayor of Naples, Formisano left the party again and joined to the Moderates of Giacomo Portas. 
On 9 February 2017 he joined the Civics and Innovators group, while on 28 February of the same year he left the Moderates and the Civics and Innovators's group to join the Democratic and Progressive Movement.
On the occasion of the 2018 municipal elections he ran for mayor of Torre del Greco, but he was not elected.


--- [Aniello Formisano (born June 10, 1954), Italian politician ...] ---
Membership Born in Torre del Greco, Province of Naples, he graduated in law and became a leading member of the Italy of Values party, the political movement of Antonio Di Pietro. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Born in Torre del Greco, Province of Naples, he graduated in law and became a leading member of the Italy of Values party, the political movement of Antonio Di Pietro.


--- [Aniello Formisano / Deputati / Camera dei deputati - Portale ...] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Nello Formisano - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Aniello Formisano - Wikidata] ---
Aniello Formisano (Q3617472) Appearance Italian politician | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | Aniello Formisano | || | English | Aniello Formisano | Italian politician | Statements Aniello Formisano (Italian) 0 references 1 reference 1 reference 29 January 2022 1 reference 6 May 2022 9 February 2017 28 February 2017 1 reference 6 May 2022 1 reference 6 May 2022 Aniello Formisano 0 references Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(4 entries) - arzwiki انيلو فورميسانو - enwiki Nello Formisano - frwiki Nello Formisano - itwiki Nello Formisano Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Category:Aniello Formisano
