=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tornado outbreak of June 5–6, 2010]
At least 53 tornadoes were confirmed from Iowa to southern Ontario and Ohio as well as in northern New England. Seven people were confirmed dead in Ohio ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tornado_outbreak_of_June_5%E2%80%936,_2010

[Tornadoes of 2010]
There were 428 tornadoes reported in the US in June, of which 325 were confirmed. ... Main articles: Tornado outbreak of June 5–6, 2010 and 2010 Millbury tornado ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tornadoes_of_2010

[Monthly Climate Reports | Tornadoes Report | Annual 2010]
Fifty-three tornadoes were preliminarily reported across Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, Louisiana, and Mississippi, marking the 5th most active tornado day ...
URL: https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/access/monitoring/monthly-report/tornadoes/201013

[June 2010 tornado ranks as Ohio's sixth deadliest in decades]
Jun 5, 2025 — The Lake Township/Millbury EF-4 tornado happened on June 5th, 2010. It remains one of Ohio's deadliest and costliest tornadoes.
URL: https://www.wtol.com/article/weather/tornado/15-years-later-remembering-generational-tornado-7-lives-millbury-lake-township/512-0142bae1-bcd5-48b5-9135-0f74eb8f2d98

[List of United States tornadoes in June 2010]
Note: 9 tornadoes were confirmed in the final totals, but do not have a listed rating.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_tornadoes_in_June_2010


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tornado outbreak of June 5–6, 2010] ---
A major tornado outbreak sequence took place between June 5-6, 2010 affecting the Midwestern United States and parts of the Great Lakes region, starting the weekend of June 5, 2010, and extending into the morning of June 6, 2010. At least 53 tornadoes were confirmed from Iowa to southern Ontario and Ohio as well as in northern New England. Seven people were confirmed dead in Ohio just outside Toledo in Wood County, and one in Dwight, Illinois. Damage from the tornadoes in the United States totaled over $266 million.


--- [Tornadoes of 2010] ---
This page documents the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010. The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions. A lesser number occur outside the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern Hemisphere's summer season, but are also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,266 tornadoes confirmed in the United States in 2010, with 45 confirmed fatalities. Elsewhere in the world, 62 people were killed in tornadoes: 51 in China, six in Argentina, three in the Bahamas and one each in Bangladesh and Germany. The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such changed after a huge upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period. The autumn months were slightly above average.




--- [Monthly Climate Reports | Tornadoes Report | Annual 2010] ---
Use the form below to select from a collection of monthly summaries recapping climate-related occurrences on both a global and national scale. Use the form below to select from a collection of monthly summaries recapping climate-related occurrences on both a global and national scale.


--- [June 2010 tornado ranks as Ohio's sixth deadliest in decades] ---
15 years later: Remembering a "generational" tornado that claimed 7 lives The Lake Township/Millbury EF-4 tornado happened on June 5th, 2010. It remains one of Ohio's deadliest and costliest tornadoes. The relative calm of a warm and humid June night in 2010 will never be forgotten by most in northwest Ohio and southeast Michigan. The night of June 5-6, 2010, was shattered by one of the deadliest and costliest tornadoes in decades to twist across Ohio. WTOL 11 Chief Meteorologist Chris Vickers dives deep into the eye of that deadly tornado, giving official data metrics and personal insight. The tornadoes; The damage In total, the carnage of the EF-4 tornado that devastated Lake Township and Millbury on June 5 lasted only 15 minutes, but totaled over $100,000,000 in losses and damages. It also resulted in seven fatalities. Now, 15 years has passed since that fateful evening, and more perspective can be given on what was a once in a "generational" tornado. Shortly after 10 p.m., severe storms producing tornadoes erupted into the night sky. Nocturnal tornadoes are known to be some of the most dangerous and deadly. A lone supercell thunderstorm had quickly spun-up several tornadoes in Fulton County, as well as near Oak Opening and Whitehouse, Ohio. A tornado warning was issued at 10:53 p.m. for parts of Lucas and Wood Counties - which included Lake Township and Millbury. WTOL 11 Chief Meteorologist Chris Vickers recalls that night vividly. "We started receiving reports early that homes were leveled in Fulton County. I had a sinking feeling in my stomach, looking at radar, we immediately knew this was no ordinary storm. We were dealing with a significant tornado." The rotation passed directly above Maumee and Perrysburg, sparing these densely populated communities from disaster by mere minutes. Few people realize how close this tornado was to compounding this disaster. At 11:20 p.m., the tornado touched down near 795 and Oregon Road. The tornado impacted Moline and quickly intensified into an EF-3 strength. The tornado crossed 795 and destroyed the Lake Township emergency services and dispatch center, claiming at least two lives: Bailey Bowman, who was attempting to seek shelter, and Kathleen Hammit, who was in her vehicle traveling on 795. Just moments later, the tornado twisted through Lake High School, destroying much of the campus and tossing empty school buses like toys hundreds of yards. The school, largely empty at the time, was set to host a graduation ceremony the next morning. The tornado crossed I-280 and toppled high transmission lines with winds over 140 mph. The worst of the tornado intensified to EF-4 strength as it barreled down Main Street in Millbury. Reaching peak winds of 170 to 175 mph and being over 400 yards wide, dozens of homes were either destroyed or severely damaged. The tornado then crossed Woodville Road and severely damaged several structures before dissipating at 11:35 p.m. The human impact Gerald Lathrop was driving on SR 795 with his girlfriend, Bailey Bowman. The pair took shelter inside of a Lake Township building, which was destroyed by the tornado. Lathrop spoke with WTOL 11 the following day. “The tornado picked me up and I landed in between two boulders and the whole building collapsed on me,” Lathrop said during a 2014 interview. “They went out and found Bailey in the yard. She didn't make it." Kathleen Hammit was also driving near the Township building when the tornado tore through. She did not survive. As the storm rolled through Wood County, it destroyed Lake High School. Several people huddled inside, using the building for shelter. The community went on to build a new school that opened in 2012. The tornado continued to tear a path of destruction through Lake Township. After it leveled the school, it claimed the life of Ted Krantz, of Millbury. Then, the twister moved across Main Street, leveling many houses in its path. The Walter family slept inside one of those homes when the tornado hit. Mary, the mother of the family, and her son, Hayden, were killed. Ryan, the father, later died from his injuries at the hospital. Their daughter, Maddie, survived. A seventh victim, Irwin Welling, died days later from his injuries. That devastating tornado continued a path of destruction running 10 miles long. A lasting impact This event remains the deadliest single tornado in Ohio in over 40 years, since the Newton Falls/Niles F-5 tornado on May 31, 1985, that claimed the lives of nine people. The June 5 Lake Twp/Millbury tornado ranks behind a short list of the most devastating tornadoes in Ohio such as the Super Tornado Outbreak F-5 tornado that struck Xenia, OH and claimed 36 lives, and the historic Palm Sunday outbreak that spawned several F-4 tornadoes that claimed dozens of lives, including here in Toledo. According to NOAA, the Lake Twp/Millbury tornado ranks as the 6th deadliest tornado since 1950 in the state. The damage of over $100,000,000 also puts this in the top 5 costliest tornadoes in Ohio history. More tornadoes that night A tornado also touched down in Fulton County, causing damage to homes and thousands of trees at Oak Openings Preserve Metropark and the Maumee State Forest. A separate twister even hit Dundee, Michigan, causing damage to properties and businesses - including Splash Universe Water Park. Homes have since been rebuilt and a lot of damage has been repaired. However, the lives the fatal storm touched remain forever changed. Watch a special WTOL 11 archival video about the 2010 tornadoes below: --


--- [List of United States tornadoes in June 2010] ---
This is a list of all tornadoes that were confirmed by local offices of the National Weather Service in the United States in June 2010.
