=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Opie receives Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal]
Department of Art professor Catherine Opie received Smithsonian's 2016 Archives of American Art Medal, which honors the unique contributions of significant artists, collectors, dealers, historians and philanthropists in the American art world.
URL: https://newsroom.ucla.edu/dept/faculty/opie-inducted-into-national-academy-of-art

[Distinguished Lecture Series: Catherine Opie - YouTube]
Opie was also awarded The Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Excellence in Photography Award in 2013 and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WO5CXOe9TdM

[International Center of Photography Celebrates Catherine Opie at Tenth ...]
Opie was the Robert Mapplethorpe Resident in Photography at the American Academy in Rome for 2021. Opie was also a recipient of The Guggenheim Fellowship in 2019, The Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Excellence in Photography Award in 2013 and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006.
URL: https://www.icp.org/news/international-center-of-photography-celebrates-catherine-opie-at-tenth-annual-icp-spotlights

[The Mike Kelley Foundation… | Mike Kelley Foundation For The Arts]
Opie was a recipient of the Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Institute Excellence in Photography Award in 2013, and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006. She also serves on the board of directors of the The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts.
URL: https://mikekelleyfoundation.org/news/2017/the-mike-kelley-foundation-for-the-arts-appoints-new-board-member

[Catherine Opie - The Creative Independent]
Bio Catherine Opie was born in Sandusky, Ohio and received her MFA from CalArts in 1988. Opie's work has been exhibited extensively throughout the United States, Europe, and Japan, including a mid-career survey at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York in 2008. Opie was a recipient of The Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Excellence in ...
URL: https://thecreativeindependent.com/people/catherine-opie/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Opie receives Smithsonian's Archives of American Art Medal] ---
Department of Art professor Catherine Opie received Smithsonian's 2016 Archives of American Art Medal, which honors the unique contributions of significant artists, collectors, dealers, historians and philanthropists in the American art world. The Archives of American Art is the world’s pre-eminent and most widely used research center dedicated to collecting, preserving, and providing access to primary sources that document the history of the visual arts in America. Founded in Detroit in 1954 by Edgar P. Richardson, then director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, and Lawrence A. Fleischman, a Detroit executive and active young collector, the initial goal of the archives was to serve as microfilm repository; this mission expanded quickly to collecting and preserving original material. In 1970, the archives joined the Smithsonian Institution, sharing its mandate: the increase and diffusion of knowledge. Opie’s work has been exhibited around the world. Currently, her photographs are being presented in Reinventing Photography: The Robert E. Meyerhoff and Rheda Becker Collection, which is on view now through Mar. 5 at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. In addition, Catherine Opie: 700 Nimes Road, which traveled from MOCA Pacific Design Center to the George Eastman Museum in Rochester, New York, will be on view through Jan. 8; and Ecce homo/Behold the Man will be on view at the Museum de Fundatie, in Zwolle, Netherlands through Jan.15. Opie was inducted into the National Academy last October, along with Yoko Ono, Shigeru Ban and Jack Whitten. The academy is a lively community of artists, architects, educators, students, museum-goers and those dedicated to the arts in America. Election as an academician recognizes an artist's exceptional creative work and contribution to the arts.


--- [Distinguished Lecture Series: Catherine Opie - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [International Center of Photography Celebrates Catherine Opie at Tenth ...] ---
The Spotlights benefit was founded in 2012 to shine a light on the immense talent of women influencing the world of photography and visual culture. Presented by Christian Louboutin and co-chaired by ICP Trustee Peggy Anderson, and Debby Hymowitz, Spotlights 2021 will feature a lively conversational program with Opie and the writer and curator, Helen Molesworth, followed by a Q+A. Catherine Opie is known for her color portraits of different societal groups such as LGBTQ communities and high school football players, with work that is often politically charged and investigates notions of identity and selfhood. Her landscapes of highways, cityscapes, small towns, and domestic spaces call attention to issues of global urgency. “We are so pleased to honor the achievements of Catherine Opie, a true luminary of the art world,” said David Little, Executive Director of ICP. “Opie has broken boundaries on many levels and expanded the realm of photography’s vision.” In line with Christian Louboutin’s shared value of encouraging greater equity and inclusion in the cultural sector, ICP will present the Christian Louboutin Scholarship during the Spotlights event program. This annual scholarship provides support to one student enrolled in ICP’s One-Year Certificate program, underscoring the importance of supporting the diversity of voices in the arts. The recipient of this year’s scholarship will be announced during the Spotlights presentation. The presentation will also include the announcement of the Mary Ellen Mark Memorial Scholarship recipient. The scholarship was launched in 2016 at Spotlights in memory of the influential and respected photographer, Mary Ellen Mark, and was established to eliminate barriers for talented artists who want to learn and be a part of the ICP community. All other funds raised through the event will support ICP’s education programs and exhibitions, with a portion of all proceeds going toward the Mary Ellen Mark Memorial Scholarship Fund for future scholarships. “I’m very proud that together with ICP, we can honor Catherine Opie who has contributed to enriching the cultural and societal conversations surrounding identity and authenticity,” said Christian Louboutin. “I’m also very keen to support ICP’s efforts to cultivate a new generation of talent through their scholarship program.” The 2021 10th Anniversary Spotlights Host Committee includes: Lynsey Addario, Isolde Brielmaier, Lauren Greenfield, Nadia Hallgren, Gillian Laub, Deana Lawson, Heidi Lee, Tyler Mitchell, Antwaun Sargent, Laurie Simmons, Mickalene Thomas, and Carrie Mae Weems. For more information about how to support Spotlights, visit icp.org/support-icp/spotlights or contact [email protected]. For press inquiries contact [email protected]. About Catherine Opie Catherine Opie (b. 1961, Sandusky, OH; lives and works in Los Angeles, CA) is an artist working with photography, film, collage, and ceramics. Her work has been exhibited extensively throughout the United States and abroad and is held in over 50 major collections throughout the world. Opie was the Robert Mapplethorpe Resident in Photography at the American Academy in Rome for 2021. Opie was also a recipient of The Guggenheim Fellowship in 2019, The Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Excellence in Photography Award in 2013 and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006. In September of 2008, the Guggenheim Museum in New York opened a mid-career exhibition titled, Catherine Opie: American Photographer. She debuted her film, The Modernist, at Regen Projects, Los Angeles in 2018. Her first monograph, Catherine Opie, was recently published by Phaidon in June of 2021. Opie received a B.F.A. from the San Francisco Art Institute, and an M.F.A. from the California Institute of the Arts in 1988. She holds the Lynda and Stewart Resnick Endowed Chair in Art at UCLA where she is a professor of Photography and also Chair of the Department of Art. About Helen Molesworth Helen Molesworth is a writer and a curator who recently hosted a podcast series called “Recording Artists” with The Getty and organized the large group exhibition Feedback for Jack Shainman’s gallery The School in Kinderhook, NY. Her major museum exhibitions include: One Day at a Time: Manny Farber and Termite Art; Leap Before You Look: Black Mountain College 1933–1957; Dance/Draw; This Will Have Been: Art, Love & Politics in the 1980s; Part Object Part Sculpture, and Work Ethic. She has organized monographic exhibitions of Ruth Asawa, Moyra Davey, Noah Davis, Louise Lawler, Steve Locke, Anna Maria Maiolino, Josiah McElheny, Kerry James Marshall, Catherine Opie, Amy Sillman, and Luc Tuymans. She is the author of numerous catalogue essays and her writing has appeared in Artforum, Art Journal, Documents, and October. The recipient of the 2011 Bard Center for Curatorial Studies Award for Curatorial Excellence, in 2021 she was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. About Christian Louboutin Christian Louboutin established his business in the heart of Paris in 1991, first with a collection for women followed by a men’s collection a few years later, both recognizable by the signature red lacquered sole. 2014 welcomed the launch of Christian Louboutin Beauté. With a prolific collection of women’s and men’s shoes, handbags and small leather goods, Christian Louboutin now counts 164 boutiques around the world. About the International Center of Photography The International Center of Photography (ICP) is the world’s leading institution dedicated to photography and visual culture. Cornell Capa founded ICP in 1974 to champion “concerned photography”—socially and politically minded images that can educate and change the world. Through our exhibitions, education programs, community outreach, and public programs, ICP offers an open forum for dialogue about the power of the image. Since its inception, ICP has presented more than 700 exhibitions, provided thousands of classes, and hosted a wide variety of public programs. ICP launched its new integrated center on Manhattan’s Lower East Side in January 2020. Located at 79 Essex Street, ICP is the cultural anchor of Essex Crossing, one of the most highly anticipated and expansive mixed-use developments in New York City. ICP pays respect to the original stewards of this land, the Lenape people, and other indigenous communities. Visit icp.org to learn more about the museum and its programs. Press Contacts: Nicole Straus Public Relations Amanda Domizio, 347-229-2877, [email protected] Margery Newman, 212-475-0252, [email protected]


--- [The Mike Kelley Foundation… | Mike Kelley Foundation For The Arts] ---
The Mike Kelley Foundation Appoints New Board Member LOS ANGELES, CA., November 30, 2017 — The Mike Kelley Foundation for the Arts announced today the appointment of artist Catherine Opie to its Board of Directors. She joins Chair John C. Welchman and members Stephanie Barron, Gary Cypres, Jim Shaw, and Joan Weinstein. “We are delighted to welcome Cathy Opie to the board of the Mike Kelley Foundation for the Arts,” said Board Chair John C. Welchman. “Her excellence as an artist, generous commitment to community engagement, philanthropic experience, and candid artworld wisdom will greatly benefit the Foundation’s mission as we move forward.” The Foundation was created in 2007 by the influential artist Mike Kelley to support arts organizations that offered compelling and high-quality programming in the arts—including experimental practices, underknown artists, or challenging content across a wide array of genres. Catherine Opie met Mike Kelley when she was a graduate student at CalArts in the 1980s. “There was always loud music from a band of students he put together emanating from one of the classrooms,” she explained. “Mike’s artwork and teaching has influenced many generations of artists. I am thrilled to be serving on the Foundation’s board and am honored to help carry on his legacy and his vision of supporting artists.” Today the Foundation, led by Executive Director Mary Clare Stevens, furthers Kelley's philanthropic work through its Artists Projects Grants, awarded to artists and non-profit organizations creating vital and often difficult-to-produce work. Since the grant initiative’s inception two years ago, the Foundation has supported seventeen projects, including the reinstallation of Barbara Carrasco’s mural L.A. History: A Mexican Perspective as part of La Plaza de Cultura y Artes’s exhibition ¡Murales Rebeldes! L.A. Chicana/o Murals under Siege; the Los Angeles Poverty Department’s The Back 9: Golf and Zoning Policy in Los Angeles, a playable mini golf course that addresses current and historic zoning issues; LA Filmforum’s Survey of International Contemporary Media Art Across Los Angeles; and the upcoming To Protect and Serve? 50 Years of Posters Protesting Police Violence at the Center for the Study of Political Graphics. In addition, the Foundation serves as an educational resource on Kelley’s life and work and promotes the artist’s legacy more broadly through loans from its collection, exhibitions, collaborations, and programs, such as the recent Kandors symposium at REDCAT, which complemented the Hauser & Wirth exhibition Mike Kelley: Kandors 1999–2011. “The past few years have been a period of tremendous growth for the Foundation, with the launch of our grant program and a series of ambitious exhibitions and programs,” explained Mary Clare Stevens, Executive Director of the Foundation. “Cathy’s strong voice, energy, and commitment to the arts as an artist, teacher, and advocate will undoubtedly deepen our efforts and will be invaluable to the development of our organization.” Catherine Opie was born in Sandusky, Ohio, and received her MFA from CalArts in 1988. Opie’s work has been exhibited extensively throughout the United States, Europe, and Japan, including a mid-career survey at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York in 2008. Opie was a recipient of the Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Institute Excellence in Photography Award in 2013, and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006. She also serves on the board of directors of the The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. A large survey of Opie’s work recently opened at the Henie Onstad Kunstsenter in Norway, with an accompanying catalog. Upcoming solo exhibitions open in 2018 at Regen Projects, Los Angeles and Lehmann Maupin Hong Kong and New York. Opie lives and works in Los Angeles and is Professor of Photography at UCLA.


--- [Catherine Opie - The Creative Independent] ---
Catherine Opie Bio Catherine Opie was born in Sandusky, Ohio and received her MFA from CalArts in 1988. Opie’s work has been exhibited extensively throughout the United States, Europe, and Japan, including a mid-career survey at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York in 2008. Opie was a recipient of The Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art Medal in 2016, The Julius Shulman Excellence in Photography award in 2013 and a United States Artists Fellowship in 2006. A large survey of Opie’s work recently opened at the Henie Onstad Kunstsenter in Norway in 2017, with an accompanying catalog. Upcoming solo exhibitions open in 2018 Lehmann Maupin Hong Kong and New York. Opie lives and works in Los Angeles and is a Professor of Photography at UCLA. Editor’s note: This interview is part of a series on day jobs.
