=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[What are the 4 countries that border Nigeria? - GEOGRAPHY HOST]
21 hours ago · Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa. Located in West Africa, it is bordered by Benin to the west; Niger to the north; Chad to the northeast; and Cameroon to the east. 4 land borders of Nigeria Nigeria-Benin Nigeria-Niger Nigeria-Chad Nigeria-Cameroon A map showing countries that border Nigeria Nigeria also has a coastline of approximately 853 kilometers (530 miles) along the Gulf of ...
URL: https://geographyhost.com/countries-that-border-nigeria/

[Which Countries Border Nigeria? - WorldAtlas]
With an area of about 356,669 square miles, the country’s borders have a length of approximately 2,515 miles. The border with Benin runs for about 480 miles, while the one with Niger runs for about 930 miles. The longest border is that with Cameroon, which runs for a massive 10,050 miles, while the shortest border is that with Chad, which runs for ...
URL: https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/which-countries-border-nigeria.html

[Nigeria]
Nigeria borders Niger in the north, Chad in the northeast, Cameroon in the east, and Benin in the west. Nigeria is a federal republic comprising 36 states and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeria

[Full List Of Nigeria's Neighboring Countries - Nigerian Queries]
Feb 20, 2026 · There are over 4 neighboring countries that share borders with Nigeria when you check the map of Africa. These countries are regarded as Nigeria's neighbors.
URL: https://nigerianqueries.com/full-list-of-nigerias-neighboring-countries/

[FULL LIST: Nigerian states that share borders with neighbouring countries]
Sep 8, 2025 — Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, shares land boundaries with four West and Central African nations: Benin Republic to the west, ...
URL: https://thenationonlineng.net/full-list-nigerian-states-that-share-borders-with-neighbouring-countries/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [What are the 4 countries that border Nigeria? - GEOGRAPHY HOST] ---
No content


--- [Which Countries Border Nigeria? - WorldAtlas] ---
Which Countries Border Nigeria? Nigeria is an African country that is located on the western side of the continent. The nation is bordered to the east by Cameroon and Chad while the west is bound by Benin. Niger is to the north of Nigeria while the northeast of Nigeria is bordered by Lake Chad. The coast of the nation in the south lies along the Gulf of Guinea. Nigeria lies within the Tropics, which is an area that has a humid and seasonally damp climate. The nation has several natural resources including the likes of petroleum, columbite, hydropower, iron ore, natural gas, zinc, tin, lead, and many more. Borders With an area of about 356,669 square miles, the country’s borders have a length of approximately 2,515 miles. The border with Benin runs for about 480 miles, while the one with Niger runs for about 930 miles. The longest border is that with Cameroon, which runs for a massive 10,050 miles, while the shortest border is that with Chad, which runs for a much shorter 54 miles. The coastline has a length of about 530 miles. Extreme Points of Nigeria Incidentally, three of the borders of the nation form three of the four extreme points of Nigeria. The northernmost point of Nigeria is located at an unnamed place that is along the boundary with Niger. This point is very close to the northwestern region of the city of Chadawa in Nigeria’s Sokoto State. The border with Cameroon, at a place without a name as well, has the easternmost point of Nigeria. This point is to the east of the small village called Munyego in Borno State. Another unnamed location along the boundary with the Benin Republic makes up the westernmost point of Nigeria. This point is close to the Beninoise city of Jabata in Oyo State. The last point, the southernmost point, is also at an unnamed place that lies to the south of Egeregere in Nigeria’s Bayelsa State. Vegetation In Nigeria, there are three types of vegetation: forests, savannahs, and montane land. Forests have considerable amounts of trees while little trees and plenty of flowers and grass mostly populate savannahs. Montane land, which is rarer, is mostly found in mountains that lie close to the border with Cameroon. The forest cover is located in different places such the mangrove swamps in the southern region of the country while rainforests are located to the north of the mangrove swamps. The savannahs are divided into three types namely the Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, the Sudan savannah, and the Sahel savannah. Topography The largest spans of topography include the valleys of the Benue and the Niger Rivers. To the north of both of the rivers, which converge at Lokoja, there are extensive plains while the southwestern region of the Niger River is made up of a rugged highland. The southeastern portion of the Benue hills is made up of mountains that span all the way to the Cameroonian border. Other more notable topographic structures in Nigeria include the likes of Obudu Plateau, Jos Plateau, Adamawa highlands, and a few others.


--- [Nigeria] ---
Nigeria, officially the Federal Republic of Nigeria, is a country in West Africa between the Sahel to the north and the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean to the south. It covers an area of 923,769 square kilometres (356,669 mi2). With a population of more than 236 million, it is the most populous country in Africa, and the world's sixth-most populous country. Nigeria borders Niger in the north, Chad in the northeast, Cameroon in the east, and Benin in the west. Nigeria is a federal republic comprising 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, where its capital, Abuja, is located. The largest city in Nigeria by population is Lagos, one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world and the largest in Africa.
Nigeria has been home to several indigenous material cultures, pre-colonial states and kingdoms since the second millennium BC. The Nok culture, c. 1500 BC, marks one of the earliest known civilisations in the region. The Hausa Kingdoms inhabited the north, with the Edo Kingdom of Benin in the south, Igbo Kingdom of Nri in the southeast and in the southwest, the Oyo Empire. The present day territory of Nigeria was home to a vast array of city-states. In the early 19th century the Fula jihads culminated in the Sokoto Caliphate. The modern state originated with British colonialization in the 19th century, taking its present territorial shape with the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and the Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914. The British set up administrative and legal structures and incorporated traditional monarchs as a form of indirect rule. Nigeria became a formally independent federation on 1 October 1960. It experienced a civil war from 1967 to 1970, followed by a succession of military dictatorships and democratically elected civilian governments until achieving a stable government in the 1999 Nigerian presidential election.
Nigeria is a multinational state inhabited by more than 250 ethnic groups speaking 500 distinct languages, all identifying with a wide variety of cultures. The three largest ethnic groups are the Hausa in the north, Yoruba in the west, and Igbo in the east, together constituting over 60% of the total population. The official language is English, chosen to facilitate linguistic unity at the national level. Nigeria's constitution ensures de jure freedom of religion, and it is home to some of the world's largest Muslim and Christian populations. Nigeria is divided roughly in half between Muslims, who live mostly in the north part of the country, and Christians, who live mostly in the south; indigenous religions, such as those native to the Igbo and Yoruba ethnicities, are in the minority.
Nigeria is a regional power in Africa and a middle power in international affairs. Nigeria's economy is the fourth-largest in Africa, the 52nd-largest in the world by nominal GDP, and 19th-largest by PPP. Nigeria is often referred to as the Giant of Africa by its citizens due to its large population and economy, and is considered to be an emerging market by the World Bank. Nigeria is a founding member of the African Union and a member of many international organisations, including the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations, NAM, the Economic Community of West African States, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and OPEC. It is one of the Next Eleven economies, and also a member, along with Mexico, Indonesia, and Turkey, of the MINT group.




--- [Full List Of Nigeria's Neighboring Countries - Nigerian Queries] ---
Full List Of Nigeria’s Neighboring Countries There are over 4 neighboring countries that share borders with Nigeria when you check the map of Africa. These countries are regarded as Nigeria’s neighbors. In this article, we detail information about these nations and their various land boundaries. Nigeria shares land boundaries with four countries – to the east with Cameroun, Chad in North-East, Niger in the North, and it likewise borders the Republic of Benin in the Southwestern part. Moreover, the southern borders of the country have the coastline with the Atlantic ocean. These countries bordering Nigeria have some common relation with the place they share boundaries within the country. How about we look at how many countries share land borders with Nigeria LIST OF NIGERIA’S NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES THAT SHARE LAND BOUNDARIES Below are the countries that share land boundaries with Nigeria. BENIN REPUBLIC The Republic of Benin borders Nigeria in the east. The country shares a common boundary with Togo toward the west, Nigeria toward the east, and Burkina Faso and Niger toward the north. The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo anyway the economic capital and the seat of government is situated in Cotonou which is likewise the largest city in the country. There are more than 10.87 million people in Benin republic. A significant part of the country’s populace lives on the little southern coastline of the Bight of Benin which is a piece of the Gulf of Guinea in the northern tropical piece of the Atlantic Ocean. Agriculture is the major engagement of the people of Benin republic. Moreover, Benin republic is a francophone country and the official language of the country is French yet the local dialects are Fon and Yoruba. The prevailing religion in the country is Christianity. There are also some numbers of Muslims in the country. CAMEROON Cameroon is a country in central Africa; it borders Nigeria in the west hence having a boundary with having its most Eastern part of the latter country. The Central African country is lined by Nigeria toward the West; Chad toward the North-East; the Central African Republic toward the East; and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and the Republic of the Congo toward the south. Cameroon’s coastline lies on the Bight of Biafra, part of the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean. Cameroon is a francophone country and French is the official language with other local indigenous dialects. English is also an official language though not spoken by the generality of the population. The country is located in the central part of the continent and it depicts Africa’s lifestyle. Some of the features in Cameroon include sea shores, deserts, mountains, rainforests, and savannas. The most elevated point of the country is Mount Cameroon in the Southwest Region. This mountain is at about 4,100 meters (13,500 ft). In terms of population, the urban area that tops in the country is Douala. This city is also the economic capital while Yaoundé is the country’s political capital. In view of the history of Cameroon, the country was colonized in the past by Germany, France and Britain. The nation at last gained independence in 1961 to turn into the Federal Republic of Cameroon. The country was named the Republic of Cameroon in 1984. Looking at the people of Cameroon, for the most part they are Christians and African customary religion worshippers. There are some numbers of Muslim in the country. CHAD The Republic of Chad is another country that borders Nigeria. The country is centrally located in Africa precisely in Central Africa. Chad is bordered by Libya toward the north, Sudan toward the east, the Central African Republic toward the south, Cameroon and Nigeria toward the southwest, and Niger toward the west. In terms of land mass, Chad is the fifth largest country in the continent. The country is named after the well known Lake Chad which borders in between the country and Nigeria. The capital of Chad is N’Djamena and it is the largest city in the country. The greater part of Chadians are Muslims and they share a relationship with some tribes in northern Nigeria. Additionally, these individuals share comparative ethnic groups and social legacy. They are firmly related by occupation, especially the nomadic cattle rearing. Looking more at the people of Chad, it can be seen that they have a diverse ethnicity just like Nigeria. The country is home to more than 200 diverse ethnic groups. The official languages in Chad are Arabic and French. There are about 55% of Muslims making the Chad population while 40% are Christians. Moreover, Chad was colonized by France in 1920 and they acquired independence in 1960 under the government of François Tombalbaye. Sadly, a significant part of Chad’s population lives in poverty and a lot of them are displaced due to this reason and insecurity issues. NIGER Nigeria borders Niger in the north. The country is formally known as the Republic of Niger, and it got its name from River Niger which runs through the country. Niger Republic is bordered by Libya toward the upper east, Chad toward the east, Nigeria and Benin toward the south, Burkina Faso and Mali toward the west, and Algeria toward the northwest. The capital city of Niger is Niamey, which is the most developed city in the country. Niger is very close to Nigeria, especially the northern parts. This closeness has allowed these people to have a comparative lifestyle for a very long time. They are of similar ethnic groups and have similar customs and traditions. Most Nigerians are Muslims and they are ranchers whose aptitude is mostly in cattle rearing. The people of Niger have cross boundary marriages, family ties and method of dressing and geologically they have a similar regional territory. With a land area of 1,270,000 km2 (490,000 sq mi), Niger is the largest country in West Africa. Be that as it may, more than 80% of its land region lies in the Sahara Desert. The country’s population is around 21 million and is found in high concentration in the far south and west of the country. Niger is a very poor country and it has been positioned near the lower part of the United Nations’ Human Development Index (HDI). Starting in 2015, the country was positioned 187th of 188 countries. An overwhelming part of the population lives in provincial areas, and has little admittance to high level education. This has made the country to be lagging behind in terms of education in the world scene. CONCLUSION We have been able to give a detailed list of the countries sharing land boundaries with Nigeria. This includes Benin republic, Cameroon, Chad and Niger republic.


--- [FULL LIST: Nigerian states that share borders with neighbouring countries] ---
No content
